-- U.S. Companies Add 71,000 Jobs; Unemployment at 9.5%
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-08-06T20:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/company-payrolls-rose-by-71-000-in-july-u-s-jobless-rate-9-5-.html

          
          
             U.S. companies hired fewer workers
than forecast in July, evidence of what Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke has called an “uncertain” economic environment
that may keep him focused on reviving growth.  
 Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by
71,000 after a June gain of 31,000 that was smaller than
previously reported, Labor Department figures in Washington
showed today. Overall employment fell by 131,000, reflecting the
dismissal of temporary census workers, and the jobless rate held
at 9.5 percent.  
 Stocks fell and the yield on the two-year Treasury note,
the security most influenced by central-bank action, dropped to
a record on speculation a stalled recovery will prompt the Fed
to consider additional stimulus. The lack of jobs is preventing
 consumer spending , the biggest part of the economy, from gaining
speed.  
 “What we are seeing now is more typical of the subpar
recovery that we have been dealing with for a while,” said
 David Greenlaw , chief fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley
in New York. The jobs report “makes it somewhat more likely the
Fed goes ahead and pulls the trigger next week, but I don’t
think it’s a done deal. They’ll look to just stabilize things
where they are and assess whether more is needed” in subsequent
meetings.  
 The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  fell 0.4 percent to
1,121.64 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. The yield on the 2-
year note was at .502 percent after falling to an all-time low
of 0.4977 percent earlier in the day.  
 Revised Down  
 Another report showed  consumer credit  declined by $1.3
billion in June after a revised $5.3 billion drop a month
earlier, the Federal Reserve said today. Borrowing has climbed
only once, in January, since February 2009. Credit-card debt
dropped in June to the lowest level since October 2005, a sign
Americans may lack the confidence to borrow.  
 The decrease in overall employment followed a revised
221,000 drop in June that was 96,000 larger than previously
estimated, today’s figures showed. Payroll estimates in the
Bloomberg survey of 84 economists ranged from a decline of
160,000 to a gain of 10,000.  
 Private employment in July was led by gains in
manufacturing and education and health services. Estimates in
the Bloomberg survey ranged from increases of 20,000 to 150,000.  
 ‘Weak’ Recovery  
 “The labor market is holding on and continues to be the
foundation for a weak, but measurable, recovery,” said  Ellen Zentner , a senior U.S. macroeconomist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York.  
 Economists surveyed forecast the  jobless rate  would rise to
9.6 percent last month. More workers left the labor force last
month, helping prevent an increase in unemployment.  
 The Census Bureau said it let go about 143,000 of the
people conducting the decennial population count from mid-June
to mid-July. It still had about  200,000  temporary workers on
staff as of July 17, indicating additional cuts to come that
will keep distorting the payroll figures for months.  
 For that reason, economists say private payrolls will be a
better gauge of the state of the labor market for much of 2010.  
 Manufacturing payrolls  increased by 36,000 in July, more
than the survey median of a 13,000 increase and reflecting a
21,000 rise in employment in the motor vehicle and parts
industry.  
 Ford Hiring  
 Ford Motor Co. , the second-largest U.S. automaker, said
this week it plans to add 27 percent more UAW positions at its
U.S. plants than originally planned. Ford agreed to add 1,975
jobs, 416 more than it originally intended, by 2012 to do work
traditionally done by suppliers. The jobs at nine U.S. plants
will be filled by a mix of idled current Ford workers and new
hires,  Jennifer Flake , a spokeswoman, said in an interview.  
 A report this week showed manufacturing expanded in July at
the slowest pace of the year as orders and production
decelerated, signaling employment gains may cool.  
 United Technologies Corp.  said July 26 it expects
restructuring actions from the first half of the year to result
in job cuts of about 2,400 hourly and salaried employees. The
maker of Carrier, Pratt & Whitney and Sikorsky products, had
eliminated 900 jobs as of June 30 and is targeting most of the
rest of the reductions for 2010 and 2011.  
 Government Reductions  
 In addition to census firings at the federal level, today’s
report showed state and local government agencies cut payrolls
by 48,000 workers as they try to close budget gaps.  
 Among other service providers, financial firms cut jobs for
the seventh time in the past eight months and temporary-help
agencies reduced staff for the first time since September.
Payrolls at retailers and transportation and warehousing
companies, in addition to education and healthcare providers,
climbed.  
 Delta Air Lines Inc. , the world’s largest carrier, plans to
hire 1,000 workers at its 25 biggest U.S. airports to help with
planes that are flying with near-record percentages of seats
filled and cope with weather disruptions, Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Anderson  said last month.  
 Wages were one bright spot in the report as hourly earnings
climbed 0.2 percent in July from the prior month, more than
anticipated. Employers also lengthened the average workweek by 6
minutes to 34.2 hours.  
 The increase in hours and wages brought the average weekly
paycheck to $772.58, up 0.5 percent from June.  
 Underemployment Rate  
 The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- held at 16.5 percent.  
 Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph E. Stiglitz  said the
U.S. still faces an “anemic recovery,” requiring another round
of “better designed” stimulus measures from the government.  
 “The recovery is so weak that it is not strong enough to
generate new jobs for the new entrants in the labor force, let
alone to find jobs for the 15 million Americans who would like a
job and can’t get one.” Stiglitz told Bloomberg Television in
an interview in Sydney yesterday.  
 The jobs report may help determine whether the Fed takes
any new measures at its next meeting on Aug. 10 aimed at
boosting growth or sticks to its outlook that the “extended
period” of interest rates close to zero and a near-record $2.3
trillion balance sheet will eventually bring down unemployment.  
 Bernanke’s View  
 “We have a considerable way to go to achieve a full
recovery in our economy,” Bernanke said in a speech this week
to southern U.S. state lawmakers in Charleston, South Carolina.
Still, “rising demand from households and businesses should
help sustain growth,” and consumer spending “seems likely to
pick up in coming quarters from its recent modest pace.”  
 Options outlined by Bernanke last month include enhancing
the low-rate commitment, reducing the 0.25 percent rate the Fed
pays on banks’ reserve deposits and maintaining or expanding the
amount of assets on the balance sheet.  
 The economy, jobs and the budget deficit are likely to be
top issues in November elections that will decide control of
Congress. Heading into the campaign season, the Obama
administration is facing public pessimism about the direction of
the economy.  
 More than seven in 10 Americans say the economy is still
mired in recession, and the country is conflicted over how to
balance concerns over joblessness and the federal budget
deficit, according to a Bloomberg National Poll.  
 Americans are torn about whether the federal government
should focus on curbing spending or creating jobs, the poll
conducted July 9-12 showed. Seven of 10 Americans say reducing
unemployment is the priority. At the same time, the public is
skeptical of President  Barack Obama’s  stimulus program and wary
of more spending, with more than half saying the deficit is
“dangerously out of control.”  
 Support for Obama has fallen as the jobless rate has been
slow to retreat. His job approval over a three-day period ending
July 31 was 44 percent, compared with 54 percent at this time
last year, according to a Gallup poll.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A job seeker  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Charmyne Kirkland looks over federal government job titles during Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton's job opportunity fair at the Washington Convention Center in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Charmyne Kirkland looks over federal government job titles during Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton's job opportunity fair at the Washington Convention Center in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Gross, manager of the world's biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks about the outlook for the U.S. unemployment rate and the need for U.S. policy changes.
     Gross, speaking with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance," also discusses investment strategy. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Ellen Zentner, senior economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the July U.S. employment report.
     Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by 71,000 after a June gain of 31,000 that was smaller than previously reported, Labor Department figures in Washington showed today. Overall employment fell by 131,000, reflecting the dismissal of temporary census workers, and the jobless rate held at 9.5 percent. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- John Herrmann, senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets, talks about today's jobs report and the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     U.S. companies hired fewer workers than forecast in July, Labor Department figures in Washington showed. Herrmann also discusses the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing programs and the outlook for Treasuries. Herrmann talks with Matt Miller and Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about the outlook for the U.S. labor market and government job incentives.
     Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by 71,000 last month after a June gain of 31,000 that was smaller than previously reported, Labor Department figures in Washington showed today. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Barry Knapp, head of U.S. equity at Barclays Capital, talks about the outlook for the U.S. economy and market reaction to today's jobs report.
      U.S. companies hired fewer workers than forecast in July, evidence of what Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has called an “uncertain” economic environment that may keep him focused on reviving growth. Knapp speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." Richard Berner, chief U.S. economist and co-head of global economics at Morgan Stanley, also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Christina Romer, who chairs the White House Council of Economic Advisers, talks about the July U.S. jobs report and her decision to resign effective Sept. 3.
     Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by 71,000 after a June gain of 31,000 that was smaller than previously reported, Labor Department figures in Washington showed today. Romer talks with Scarlet Fu and Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Companies in the U.S. added workers in July for a seventh straight month at a pace that suggests the labor-market recovery will be slow to take hold. Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by 71,000 after a gain of 31,000 in June that was smaller than previously reported, Labor Department figures showed today. Overall employment fell 131,000 and the jobless rate held at 9.5 percent. Bloomberg's Peter Cook reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 3 (Bloomberg) -- George Pipas, U.S. sales analyst for Ford Motor Co., talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about the automaker's July U.S. auto sales.
     Ford reported U.S. sales in July that trailed analysts’ estimates as consumers concerned about the economy limited large purchases. Ford's adjusted sales fell 0.7 percent, trailing analysts’ estimates for a 10 percent gain. Its total sales climbed 3.1 percent. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Jan Hatzius, chief economist for Goldman Sachs, talks about the outlook for the U.S. jobs market and economy.
     Hatzius speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- John Taylor, chief executive officer of FX Concepts Inc., discusses U.S. employment data and currency markets. He talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu." (This report is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
