-- Copper in London Gains for Third Week on Stocks Advance, European Outlook
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-06T08:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/copper-drops-for-second-day-on-outlook-concerns-pares-third-weekly-gain.html

          
          
             Copper gained, heading for a third
weekly increase, as a rise in equities and speculation that
European economies are recovering boosted the demand outlook.  
 Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange advanced
0.5 percent to $7,438 a metric ton at 4:05 p.m. in Shanghai, up
2.1 percent this week. The metal touched $7,527 on Aug. 4, the
highest level since April 27.  
 “We’ve been witnessing a close correlation between
equities and metals recently,” Cao Yanghui, an analyst at
Nanhua Futures Co., said from Hangzhou. Copper in Shanghai
advanced after local stocks climbed in the afternoon, boosting
the metal in London, he said.  
 China’s benchmark stock index closed 1.4 percent higher.
Most Asian stocks rose, driving the MSCI Asia Pacific Index to a
fifth weekly increase, as gains by real-estate companies
overshadowed declines among exporters following an increase in
U.S. jobless claims. Economists expect reports today to show
German industrial production grew for a fourth month and British
manufacturing expanded.  
 U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly rose to a three-month high
in the week ended July 31, Labor Department figures showed
yesterday.  
 Demand Worries  
 “The global macroeconomic picture hasn’t been great, so
it’s been speculative money that caused the recent rally and the
high prices have slowed physical purchases in China,” Ji
Xianglong, an analyst at Xinhua Futures Co., said from Zhejiang.  
 Backwardation, where near-term prices are higher than
longer-dated contracts, has narrowed or disappeared in the past
two weeks in the Chinese market, suggesting ample supplies or
lower demand in the short-term.  
 Immediate-delivery copper in Changjiang, Shanghai’s biggest
cash market, traded about 175 yuan more than the most-active
futures contract yesterday, compared with this year’s high of
1,410 yuan on July 1. November-delivery futures on the Shanghai
Futures Exchange closed 0.8 percent higher at 57,830 yuan
($8,544) a ton.  
 “Fundamentally, there’s little to keep copper prices above
$7,500 in London and 60,000 yuan in Shanghai,” said Ji.  
 Codelco, the largest copper producer, said demand in China
will slow “a little” in this half because of government
measures to tighten lending and curb inflation.  
 “The Chinese are worried about controlling inflation, and
they want to have a GDP growth target at 9 percent, not 11
percent,” said Chief Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez  in an
interview in Shanghai today.  
 Still, Codelco is optimistic about the copper market
because new supplies will be crimped as mining companies are
reluctant to take on debt for expansion plans, Hernandez said.  
 Aluminum in London increased 0.3 percent to $2,216 a ton,
zinc rose 1.2 percent to $2,123 a ton, and lead advanced 0.8
percent to $2,203 a ton. Nickel gained 1 percent to $22,210 a
ton, while tin climbed 0.4 percent at $20,550 a ton.  
 -- Glenys Sim ,  Helen Sun . Editors:  Jarrett Banks ,  Jake Lloyd- Smith   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Helen Sun  in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        