-- Company Bond Risk Heads for Third Weekly Drop on European Economy Optimism
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-08-06T13:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/corporate-bond-risk-gauges-in-europe-poised-for-a-third-week-of-declines.html

          
          
             Indexes measuring the cost of
insuring against losses on European corporate bonds headed for a
third week of declines as optimism the region’s economic
recovery is accelerating fueled demand for risky assets.  
 The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
linked to 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings
decreased 3 basis points to 468, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. at 2:30 p.m. in London. The gauge, which declines as
investor confidence improves, is 11 basis points lower on the
week and down from 536 on July 16.  
 Europe is recovering faster than forecast and money
markets are improving, European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  said yesterday as he held the euro region’s
benchmark interest rate at a record-low 1 percent. Confidence
was underpinned by bank earnings, with  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  returning into profit for the first time since 2007.  
 “As long as central bank money remains cheap, this is
supportive for risky assets, in particular credits,”  Tim Brunne , a Munich-based strategist at UniCredit SpA, wrote in a
note to investors. Though “the European banking crisis is
essentially over, some of the banks in the euro zone still
depend very much on central bank liquidity,” he wrote.  
 Demand for higher-yielding assets is increasing as Moody’s
Investors Service forecasts Europe’s default rate will decline
to 2.4 percent by the end of the year. The rate, which increased
to 6.2 percent in July from 5.7 percent in June, is down from
7.8 percent last year, Moody’s said in a report yesterday.  
 Bank Bonds  
 RBS , Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, joined
rivals including  HSBC Holdings Plc , Lloyds Banking Group Plc and
Germany’s biggest lender Deutsche Bank AG reporting falling bad-
loan provisions for the first half or second quarter of 2010.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers rose 1 basis point to 116.5, little
changed in the week and near a 3 1/2-month low, JPMorgan prices
show.  
 “We have entered a microclimate that is very supportive
for credit,” Barclays Capital analysts led by  Matthew Leeming 
wrote in a note to investors. “Systemic bank funding concerns
have receded and real-money investors are covering shorts,
especially in senior financials.”  
 BP Well Plug  
 BP Plc  led a decline in the cost of insuring investment-
grade companies as the oil producer completed a cement plug at
its Gulf of Mexico well, sealing the source of millions of
gallons of oil dumped into the sea after an April rig explosion.  
 Swaps on BP fell 10 basis points to 220, the lowest level
since June 4, according to data provider CMA. The company’s
swaps curve normalized this week, with five-year contracts
rising above shorter-dated protection for the first time in two
months.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings was little changed at 102.25 basis
points, and was 2.75 lower than a week ago, JPMorgan prices
show. The index dropped below its North American equivalent this
week for the first time since May as investors turned their
attention to how sustainable the economic recovery is in the
U.S.  
 The gauge of high-yield European company debt risk pared
its decline after a U.S. government report signaled the labor
market recovery will be slow to take hold.  
 Private payrolls excluding government agencies rose by
71,000 in July, after a June gain of 31,000 that was smaller
than previously reported, the Labor Department said in
Washington. Economists projected a 90,000 July increase,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The Markit CDX North America Index rose 1.72 basis points
to 145.3, Markit Group Ltd. prices show.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros ($13.2 million) of debt
from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        