-- Corporate Bond Sales May Reach Record $100 Billion in August, Aladdin Says
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-08-06T16:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/corporate-bond-sales-may-reach-record-100-billion-in-august-aladdin-says.html

          
          
             U.S. corporate bond sales in August
may reach $100 billion, the most on record for the month, as
companies benefit from falling borrowing costs and seek to raise
debt before financial firms come to market in September,
according to Aladdin Capital LLC.  
 “Companies are taking advantage of a large pool of
investor money to pay off higher interest-rate bearing bonds and
replace them with lower rates,”  Scott MacDonald , head of credit
and economic research at Stamford, Connecticut-based Aladdin,
wrote in a note to clients today. “That has positive long-term
implications for the creditworthiness of U.S. corporate
credit.”  
 Issuance is accelerating as corporate executives wager that
the “unusually uncertain” economic outlook that Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  described in congressional
testimony last month may make it more difficult to sell debt,
MacDonald wrote. Companies added 71,000 workers last month, less
than the 90,000 that economists forecast in a Bloomberg survey,
Labor Department figures show.  
 Firms also may be seeking to sell debt in August to avoid
“being crowded out by what is expected to be a large amount of
financial issuance” in September, MacDonald said.  
 International Business Machines Corp., the world’s largest
computer-services provider, and Expedia Inc., the biggest
Internet travel agency, led corporate bond sales of $36.2
billion this week, following record July issuance of $90.2
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on U.S.
corporate debt have fallen to 4.978 percent from 5.72 percent on
June 10, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  
 Consumer Sentiment  
 Companies sold $97.9 billion of debt in August 2007, a
record for that month, Bloomberg data show. The average issuance
total for August bond sales since 1999 is $57.1 billion.  
 Mutual funds investing in high-yield, high-risk corporate
bonds received deposits of $2.8 billion last month, the most
since April 2009, and have received $3.6 billion in cash this
year, Bank of America analysts wrote in an Aug. 2 report.  
 Investors will look to reports next week on wholesale
inventories and consumer sentiment as well as the Fed’s
statement on Aug. 10 for signs the economy won’t slip back into
recession, MacDonald said in a telephone interview.  
 “If we get into next week and the data is a little bit
more supportive, we could see another big round of new
issuance,” MacDonald said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        