-- Country Garden Bonds Fall on Report of Halted Project
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-08-06T09:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/country-garden-bonds-fall-as-ming-pao-says-project-halted-on-rule-breaches.html

          
          
             Dollar bonds sold this week by
 Country Garden Holdings Co. , the China developer controlled by
billionaire  Yang Huiyan , fell after a newspaper reported the
company was ordered to halt a project amid regulatory breaches.
Country Garden denied its project was involved.  
 The yield on the $400 million of 10.5 percent, five-year
notes Country Garden sold Aug. 4 rose as high as 11.1 percent
from 10.9 percent yesterday, according to Nomura Holdings Inc.
prices on Bloomberg. The spread investors demand to own the
notes instead of Treasuries widened to 949 basis points from 934
basis points.  
 China’s eastern Anhui provincial government told Country
Garden to stop work on a project in Chaohu city after finding it
broke several real-estate rules, Ming Pao said today, citing a
government spokesman it didn’t identify. The company said in a
statement that its project isn’t included in the breaches.  
 “This news is definitely not helping sentiment in the
China property high-yield space, together with pending supply
coming to the market,” said  Keith Chan , a credit analyst with
HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “Investors will just ask for
higher premiums if new names come to the market.”  
 China has tightened property lending and cracked down on
speculation since mid-April on concern last year’s record $1.4
trillion of new loans fueled a property bubble that could lead
to a surge in delinquent debts. The China Banking Regulatory
Commission has told lenders to stress test for home prices
dropping as much as 60 percent in some cities and warned some
developers may run out of cash, a person familiar with the
matter said this week.  
 Overwhelming News  
 The cost of protecting Country Garden’s debt rose 74.9
basis points to 799.9 basis points, according to data provider
CMA. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10
million of bonds and loans.  
 Investors are “a little bit overwhelmed” by the
“headline news about bank stress tests” and by a potential
surge in bond sales, said  Feng Zhi Wei , a senior credit analyst
at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore.  
 Renhe Commercial Holdings Ltd., a developer of underground
shopping centers in China, began meetings with bond investors in
Asia and Europe on Aug. 4, according to a person familiar with
the matter. KWG Property Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based
developer, is also arranging investor talks in Asia, Europe and
the U.S. before a sale, another person said.  
 The Anhui government’s complaint of illegal land use
relates to a golf course on property owned by the He county
government that’s next to Country Garden’s project, the company
said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.
That government project was stopped and has nothing to do with
the company, Country Garden said. A spokesman for He county, who
only gave his last name Diao, said he had no comment.  
 Country Garden bought 1,770 hectares in August 2007, it
said, and has started the first phase of construction.  
 Country Garden stock has declined for three straight days,
and fell 1.6 percent today to HK$2.42.  
 -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Will McSheehy ,  Tom Kohn   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        