-- Oil Falls Third Day as U.S. Job Loss Forecast Spurs Demand Growth Concern
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-08-06T11:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/crude-oil-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-four-as-asian-equities-advance.html

          
          
             Crude oil fell for a third day as
forecasts that the U.S. lost more jobs last month fanned concern
that fuel demand will lag behind supplies.  
 Futures in New York fell as much as 0.5 percent before a
government report that may show a drop of 65,000 jobs in July.
Crude may also retreat next week, a Bloomberg survey of analysts
showed, reversing a 3.7 percent gain in the past five days.  
 “Inventories worldwide are at very high levels, and the
demand recovery seems to be relatively weak in industrialized
countries,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodity research at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  
 Oil for September delivery traded for $81.75 a barrel, 26
cents lower in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange as of 12:56 p.m. London time. Brent crude for September
settlement on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
traded for $81.01, down 60 cents.  
 Futures in New York, up almost 4 percent this week, are 14
percent higher than a year ago.  
 Twenty-eight of 46 analysts, or 61 percent, forecast crude
oil will decline through Aug. 13. It was the most bearish result
since July 2009. Twelve respondents, or 26 percent, predicted
that futures will increase and six saw little change. Last week
42 percent of analysts forecast a drop.  
 Equities Rally  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 0.4 percent to 262.6 as of
12:52 p.m. in London. The gauge has rallied 3.1 percent this
week as better-than-estimated results from companies such as
HSBC Holdings Plc and BNP Paribas SA boosted optimism that the
economy will continue to grow.  
 “Oil prices are still in position to advance if we get
strong moves higher in the euro or in equities as a result of a
bullish employment report,”  Peter Beutel , president of energy
adviser Cameron Hanover Inc. in New Canaan, Connecticut, said in
a note. “There could be short-covering ahead of the weekend,
based on fears of a tropical storm or hurricane as well.”  
 An Energy Department report Aug. 4 showed crude supplies in
the U.S.  Midwest  surged to a record. Stockpiles at  Cushing ,
Oklahoma, the delivery point for New York futures contracts
based on West Texas crude, climbed 1.8 percent to 37.8 million
barrels, leaving inventories less than 1 percent below the all-
time high set in May.  
 Total U.S. inventories fell by 2.8 million barrels in the
week ended July 30 after a reduction in the U.S. Gulf Coast
region offset the builds in the center of the country and in the
West Coast.  
 OPEC Shipments  
 The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
reduce shipments this month as refineries close for maintenance,
according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  
 The 12-member group, which pumps 40 percent of the world’s
crude, will ship 23.33 million barrels a day in the four weeks
to Aug. 21, down 1.8 percent from 23.75 million barrels a day in
the month ended July 24, the Halifax, England-based consultant
said yesterday. The data exclude Ecuador and Angola.  
 The U.S. reduced its forecast for this year’s Atlantic
hurricane period to 14 to 20 named storms, down from 14 to 23,
because of less activity than expected in the first two months
of the season. Tropical Storm Colin strengthened over the
Atlantic and may pass to the west of Bermuda within two days,
the National Hurricane Center said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        