-- Delhi Games Organizers Face Delays, Graft Allegations Before October Event
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-08-06T11:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/delhi-games-organizers-face-delays-graft-allegations-before-october-event.html

          
          
             New Delhi  is racing against time to
host the 2010  Commonwealth Games  after suspending officials over
graft allegations and firing a sports management company for
failing to win sponsors for the October event.  
 The  Organising Committee  suspended two top officials for
alleged “financial irregularities,” while a third resigned,
the panel’s spokesman Lalit Bhanot said yesterday. The
organizers also terminated the contract with an Australian firm
hired to raise as much as $122 million in sponsorships, citing
“non-performance,” the Hindustan Times reported today.  
 “The buck stops with me to deliver a good games,”  Suresh Kalmadi , chairman of the Commonwealth Games 2010 Organising
Committee, told Times Now in an interview today. “That’s what I
promised the whole country. If anything goes wrong, I am
responsible.”  
 Construction and landscaping at some of the stadiums in the
city were incomplete almost a week after the deadline passed to
handover the facilities to the organizers. The Times of India
carried pictures of a leaky roof in one of the stadiums this
week after monsoon rains exposed chinks in the structure, while
sister publication Economic Times called the event
“Conmen’wealth Games.”  
 ‘Strong Doubts’  
 The government is spending $7.9 billion on stadiums,
swimming pools, cycling tracks, tennis courts and to upgrade the
city’s infrastructure to host about 8,000 athletes from 71
member countries that comprise Britain and its former colonies.  
 The event’s success is key to Asia’s third-biggest  economy 
as it attempts to showcase its status of an emerging power. With
58 days left for the start of the competition, many parts of the
capital, including the central Connaught Place, remained dug up
with underground cables exposed and debris strewn, hindering
pedestrians and motorists alike. The work in progress has raised
concerns that the games will turn out to be an embarrassment
rather than a cause for celebration.  
 “I have strong doubts about the success of the games and I
am keeping my fingers crossed,” said  Ajay K. Mehra , director of
the Centre for Public Affairs, a Noida, Uttar Pradesh-based
research organization. “By not delivering the task on time and
properly, they are certainly allowing the country to become a
laughing stock.”  
 A federal minister pledged to make the sporting event a
success.  
 “Agencies responsible for implementation of projects are
regularly and intensely monitoring the progress to ensure
completion of the projects on time,” Urban Development Minister
S.  Jaipal Reddy , said in a written reply to parliament today.  
 Chaos, Disaster  
 Opposition parties said the allegations of corruption and
inefficiency raise a question mark on India’s ability to host an
international sporting event as well as South Africa, which
hosted the soccer World Cup last month, and China which
organized the 2008 Olympics in Beijing.  
 “It is a loot of public money,” said Gurudas Dasgupta of
the Communist Party of India in the parliament today. “You are
proving to the world that India is incapable of holding the
games. It is total chaos and disaster.”  
 India should focus on the games now and pursue
investigations later into corruption allegations after the
successful completion of the games, Mike Hooper, chief executive
officer of the  Games Federation , said in an interview today.  
 Public Row  
 Last October, Kalmadi sought the removal of Hooper from New
Delhi, alleging he was impeding progress by raising doubts
whether the organizers would be able to complete the work in
time. Construction was scheduled to end by February, Kalmadi had
said in September. The officials later agreed to put the row
behind them and to work as “partners” for its success.  
 “Delay in completion of projects is incredibly frustrating
and that is something we have been talking about many times,”
Hooper said from New Delhi. “There are leaks, broken tiles -
these can be addressed in the next two months.”  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , while addressing a joint
press conference with his U.K. counterpart  David Cameron  in New
Delhi on July 29, said he has reviewed the preparations for the
games and “is satisfied” with them.  
 Urban Development Minister Reddy drew comparison to an
Indian wedding, which is purportedly chaotic for months until
the last day when things fall in place. “But we do end up doing
well,” he said on July 26.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        