-- Dexia Second-Quarter Profit Declines 12%, Hurt by Provision in Slovakia
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2010-08-06T15:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/dexia-second-quarter-profit-declines-12-hurt-by-provision-in-slovakia.html

          
          
             Dexia SA , which received billions of
euros in capital and funding guarantees from France, Belgium and
Luxembourg during the credit crunch, said second-quarter profit
fell 12 percent, hurt by a charge from Slovakia.  
 Net income dropped to 248 million euros ($327 million) from
283 million euros a year earlier, the Paris- and Brussels-based
bank said today. The bank fell 4.7 percent in Brussels trading.  
 Dexia, which received a capital injection of about 6
billion euros in 2008 to avoid collapse, agreed in February to
sell units in Italy, Spain and Slovakia to gain European Union
approval for the taxpayer bailout. The bank also agreed to
shrink its balance sheet 35 percent by 2014. Chief Executive
Officer  Pierre Mariani  signaled in February that profit will
fall this year.  
 “It’s not very impressive,” said  Eric Hazart , a Paris-
based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, who has an “underperform”
rating on the stock. “Operational results drop almost
everywhere.”  
 Dexia fell 19 cents to 3.78 euros, bringing the decline
this year to 11 percent. That compares with a 2.4 percent gain
in the 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index.  
 Gross operating income fell 35 percent to 497 million
euros, hurt by a 17 percent slump in revenue. Operating income
at Dexia’s core division, which includes retail and commercial
banking, public and wholesale banking and asset management,
dropped 12 percent, the company reported.  
 Decline in Revenue  
 Dexia stopped selling government-guaranteed debt at the end
of June, respecting a commitment taken with the EU. Dexia is
also facing a two-year ban on takeovers and paying cash
 dividends . At the end of 2008, the bank started unwinding 191
billion euros of assets, including bond holdings, a pool of
asset-backed securities and government loans outstanding in
markets that Dexia is exiting.  
 Dexia booked a 138 million-euro provision for litigation
involving its Slovak unit. The bank has appealed a Bratislava
court decision on May 17 requiring its Slovak unit to pay
“regarding a claim introduced by a professional client in
2008,” the bank said. “Dexia considers the claim as
groundless.”  
 Consumer Banking  
 Pretax profit at Dexia’s consumer-banking unit more than
doubled from the year-earlier level to 187 million euros, it
said. Deposits rose at its networks in Belgium, Luxembourg and
Turkey, Dexia said. Earnings at the public-and-wholesale banking
unit, the division that lends to local governments, were 149
million euros, unchanged from a year earlier. Asset-management
and services pretax profit rose 17 percent to 58 million euros.  
 “All in all it’s more positive than negative,” said  Dirk Peeters , a Brussels-based analyst at KBC Securities who has an
“accumulate” rating on the stock. The trend in retail remains
positive, he said.  
 Dexia had a 39 million-euro second-quarter pretax loss at a
unit that unwinds assets, compared with a 125 million-euro
profit a year earlier, it said.  
 Dexia’s bond holdings were at 125.2 billion euros at the
end of June, down by 2.9 billion euros from the end of March, it
said. Sovereign bonds rated BBB amounted to 8.5 billion euros,
with a 3.1 billion-euro “migration” from A to BBB, “mostly
related to the Greek sovereign,” Dexia said on its website.  
 Dexia’s risk-weighted assets rose 4.6 percent during the
quarter to 149 billion euros at the end of June, it said. The
bank’s core tier 1 ratio, a key indicator of financial strength,
fell to 11.3 percent at the end of June from 11.5 percent at the
end of March, Dexia said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        