-- Diasorin Says No Talks With KKR Over Buyout, Refuting Report in Magazine
-- Elisa Martinuzzi
-- 2010-08-06T15:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/diasorin-says-no-talks-with-kkr-over-buyout-refuting-report-in-magazine.html

          
          
             Diasorin SpA, an Italian supplier of
diagnostic tests, said it’s had no contact with U.S. private
equity firm  KKR & Co.  and controlling shareholders don’t plan to
sell, denying a report in weekly magazine Il Mondo.  
 Diasorin shares rose the most in a year after the report,
which said a buyout was likely to involve Chief Executive
Officer  Carlo Rosa . The magazine didn’t say how it obtained the
information. Diasorin also reported a 26 percent increase in
first-half profit and raised its sales forecast for the year.  
 “No contact was established, or is pending, with the
mentioned fund, nor is there any intention of evaluating any
hypothesis of change in the controlling shareholding
structure,” Diasorin Chairman  Gustavo Denegri  said in a
statement sent through the Italian exchange today.  
 The Denegri family  owns  44 percent of Saluggia, Italy-based
Diasorin through IP Investimenti Partecipazioni. CEO Rosa owns
an 8.7 percent stake, according to market regulator Consob’s
website. A spokesman for KKR in London declined to comment.  
 Diasorin rose 1.85 euros, or 6.2 percent, to 31.88 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Milan. Diasorin has risen 28
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 1.75
billion euros ($2.32 billion).  
 The U.S. firm may decide by September whether to go ahead
with a bid, the magazine said.  
 Diasorin’s  earnings  before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in the first half rose 26 percent to 78.4 million
euros, the company said today. Sales this year may rise about 20
percent, up from a previous forecast for more than 10 percent,
the company said. The supplier of reagent kits for in vitro
diagnostics cited higher sales of its Liaison analysis systems
and tests to monitor Vitamin D levels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marco Bertacche  in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
 Elisa Martinuzzi  at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        