-- Dodd: Warren Nomination to Consumer Bureau Could Stir Fight
-- James Rowley
-- 2010-08-06T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/dodd-warns-of-senate-fight-if-obama-picks-warren-to-head-consumer-agency.html

          
          
             Senator  Christopher Dodd  warned that
a decision to nominate Harvard law professor  Elizabeth Warren  to
head a new consumer agency could produce a protracted
confirmation fight.  
 “What you don’t need to have is an eight-month battle for
who the director or the head or chairperson of this new consumer
financial protection bureau will be,” Dodd, a Connecticut
Democrat and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ,” to be broadcast today.  
 While Warren is a “good candidate,” some senators have
suggested they won’t vote for her, said Dodd, who helped write
the legislation that creates the Bureau of Consumer Financial
Protection at the Federal Reserve to police banks for credit-
card and mortgage lending abuses.  
 A leading candidate for the position and a vocal consumer
advocate, Warren has drawn opposition from Republicans and
financial industry representatives who question whether she has
the experience to run a large agency and say her consumer
advocacy would make it difficult for her to negotiate fairly.  
 Dodd said it would be a “huge mistake” to appoint a
director over a congressional recess and circumvent
consideration by the Senate.  
 Dodd, 66, also expressed doubt that a commission President
 Barack Obama  appointed to find ways to reduce the nation’s
federal budget deficit, projected to average $1 trillion a year
for the next decade, will succeed in achieving the president’s
goals.  
 ‘Skeptical’ on Commission  
 “I’m skeptical about it,” Dodd said. While expressing
admiration for the panel’s co-chairmen, former White House Chief
of Staff  Erskine Bowles  and former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson , Dodd said “I’m doubtful as to whether or not we can
produce the results that we need to do.”  
 Obama created the panel in February to find enough federal
budget savings to reduce the deficit to 3 percent of the economy
by 2015, from the current 10 percent. That will require $250
billion in savings in 2015 alone, more than what Obama’s health-
care overhaul is projected to save over an entire decade.  
 On the confirmation of three candidates for the Federal
Reserve Board, endorsed by his committee last month, Dodd said
he planned to act quickly to get Senate approval.  
 “I’ll get them done,” Dodd said. The nominees include San
Francisco Fed President  Janet Yellen ,  Peter Diamond , a
Massachusetts Institute of Technology economics professor, and
 Sarah Bloom Raskin , Maryland’s commissioner of financial
regulation.  
 Regulator Hearings  
 Dodd also said he plans to hold hearings in September to
have financial regulators explain how they plan to carry out the
financial-overhaul law, which Obama signed into law last month.  
 “I can’t legislate competency and I can’t legislate
passion about all of this,” Dodd said.  
 Dodd said the financial crisis contributed to advancing the
legislation through Congress.  
 “In the absence of this crisis, it would have been very
hard,” Dodd said.  
 Dodd said Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , 56, knows the legislation and would have easily won
confirmation to lead the consumer agency if she were interested
in the job.  
 He said he urged Bair to pursue it because she has
experience running an agency and pressed for foreclosure relief
for consumers. Bair didn’t want the job, Dodd said.  
 Support for Bair  
 “I did some checking on Sheila Bair and I was going to
have very little difficulty getting Sheila Bair confirmed,”
said Dodd, whose committee will consider the nomination. “I’d
probably confirm her in a couple of days. That’s how strongly
people felt, Democrats and Republicans.”  
 Warren, 61, chairman of the congressional panel overseeing
the Troubled Asset Relief Program, is credited with coming up
with the idea for the new agency.  
 Assistant Treasury Secretary  Michael Barr  is another
leading candidate to run the new consumer bureau.  
 Dodd, who is retiring this year after 30 years in the
Senate, said that while the Senate “seems a bit dysfunctional”
because of partisanship “we did an awful lot this year,”
citing the enactment of the health-care overhaul as well as the
financial-services measure.  
 News Cycle  
 The “24/7 news cycle” makes it more difficult to
legislate because “you can’t utter a phrase without being
dissected in 15 different ways,” Dodd said. Political
fundraising is also “a huge problem that just devours time”
because of the amounts needed to run a campaign, Dodd said.  
 The lack of socializing between members that allows for
development of personal relationships across party lines also
hinders compromise, he said.  
 “People don’t really know each other anywhere near as well
as people used to even a decade ago,” he said. Senators “are
coming back on Monday nights or Tuesday mornings from their
respective states and they’re leaving Thursday night and not
showing up again until Tuesday.”  
 Democrats have sent a “confused message,” Dodd said,
three months ahead of the November midterm congressional
elections.  
 Some Democrats have been saying “we haven’t been able to
get anything done because of so much obstructionism” by
Republicans and “others saying look at what we’ve done,” he
said. “We’ve got to start taking credit for what we’ve been
able to achieve.”  
 Dodd said he doesn’t regret not running for re-election.  
 “I don’t think I would have gotten the financial reform
bill done had I been a candidate,” Dodd said. “The time
allocation would have been hard and I think every decision I
made would have been seen through the prism of a candidate. So I
stripped that argument out.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Harvard law professor Elizabeth Warren  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Harvard law professor Elizabeth Warren, seen here, has drawn opposition from Republicans and financial industry representatives who question whether she has the experience to run a large agency and say her consumer advocacy would make it difficult for her to negotiate fairly. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Harvard law professor Elizabeth Warren, seen here, has drawn opposition from Republicans and financial industry representatives who question whether she has the experience to run a large agency and say her consumer advocacy would make it difficult for her to negotiate fairly. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
