-- Emerging Market Stocks in Third Straight Weekly Gain on Earnings Prospects
-- Jason Webb
-- 2010-08-06T21:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-three-month-high-as-profit-outlook-improves.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks gained for a
third consecutive week as concern eased about stress tests for
Chinese lenders and European bank earnings topped estimates.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Market Index  fell 0.1 percent to 1,010.96
as of 5 p.m. in New York. Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index dropped
to the lowest in three days and Russia’s  Micex  benchmark of
shares fell 0.8 percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 1.4
percent after China’s banking regulator said stress test
scenarios don’t represent its outlook on the property market.
Eastern European  stocks  gained 3.4 percent after European bank
earnings beat estimates.  
 The MSCI Emerging Market Index advanced 2 percent this week
in the longest stretch of weekly gains since March 19. The
gauge’s  relative strength index  was 72, above the 70 level which
some technical analysts believe indicates an asset’s price is
poised to drop.  
 “The earnings season hasn’t really disappointed the market
so far, and liquidity is still ample, so that’s helping the
momentum,” said  Pankaj Kumar , who oversees about $560 million
as chief investment officer of Kurnia Insurance Malaysia Bhd.
Still, “investors are torn” because of concerns about the U.S.
economy, he said.  
 The Emerging Market Index slid today after the U.S. Labor
Department reported that private payrolls rose a less-than-
forecast 71,000 in June. The pace suggests the labor-market
recovery will be slow to take hold.  
 The MSCI Emerging Market Index was trading at  15.1 times
trailing earnings , compared with a high of 22.9 reached in
January.  
 Chinese Property  
 Chinese lenders and property developers rebounded after
regulators said risk factors suggested for bank stress tests,
including a fall in property prices of up to 60 percent, aren’t
meant to indicate a market forecast or signal changes in real-
estate lending policies. Bank of Communications Co., part-owned
by HSBC Holdings Plc, rose 2.5 percent.  Industrial & Commercial
Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s biggest lender by market value,
added 0.7 percent.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc swung to profit for the
first time since 2007, beating Bloomberg estimates and sending
the shares up by as much as 3.9 percent in London trading.  
 Brazil’s  B2W Cia. Global de Varejo , dropped 7.3 percent,
the biggest drop since May 18, as the country’s largest online
retailer slid after second-quarter profit declined 67 percent.  
 Eregli Demir & Celik Fabrikalari AS , the biggest Turkish
steelmaker, rose 0.6 percent to 4.32 liras, poised for its
highest close since May 18. Garanti Securities raised its
estimate for the stock to 4.9 liras. The Turkish lira
appreciated 0.9 percent versus the dollar.  
 South Korea’s won strengthened 0.4 percent, adding to its
third weekly gain and its best weekly winning streak since
April, after the government reported a ninth increase in monthly
exports and foreigners added to their holdings in the nation’s
stocks.  
 To contact the reporters in this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        