-- Equity-Underwriting Fees Probe Will Cover FTSE 350, Britain's OFT Says
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-08-06T15:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/equity-underwriting-fees-probe-to-cover-ftse-350-britain-s-oft-says.html

          
          
             Britain’s antitrust regulator said
its probe of investment banks’ equity-underwriting fees will be
limited to rights offerings and other share issues for FTSE 350
listed companies and won’t cover initial public offerings.  
 The investigation, which will start later this year, was
narrowed after the  Office of Fair Trading  sought input from
banks, the  Financial Services Authority  and large companies
about the scope of the so-called market study, the watchdog said
in a statement today in London.  
 “The feedback we got was that there wasn’t as much concern
about IPO fees, and companies appear to be able to generate more
competition between underwriters when launching an IPO than with
forward offers,” OFT spokesman Frank Shepherd said in an e-
mail.  
 Companies raised about 70 billion pounds ($112 billion) of
equity capital in the U.K. last year and paid about 2 billion
pounds in fees for underwriting and related services, the OFT
said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , Morgan Stanley and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc have been the top three banks for equity
underwriting in the U.K. this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The OFT’s probe was first announced in June.  
 The investigation will now involve equity-raising, share
placements and other types of follow-on offers by the largest
350 publicly traded companies in the U.K., the OFT said.  
 Advise the Government  
 “The study will also help us to advise the government in
its wider thinking about wholesale financial markets,” said
Clive Maxwell, a director at the OFT.  
 The investigation will provide information to the U.K.
Treasury’s  Independent Commission on Banking ,  Tim McIver , a
lawyer at Eversheds LLP in London, said. The commission was set
up in the wake of the global financial crisis to reduce risk and
increase competition in the industry.  
 “It is uncertain at this point what further action the OFT
may take,” McIver said today in an interview. “One option
could be a referral to the  Competition Commission  for a full
investigation.”  
 The OFT previously said its investigation wouldn’t cover
debt-raising activities or advice given to companies only for
mergers and acquisitions.  
 Fees for IPOs in Europe are about half what banks charge in
the U.S. Banks have earned average fees of 3.4 percent on
European IPOs through June, compared to 6.3 percent in the U.S.,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Record share sales by companies including  HSBC Holdings Plc 
and Prudential Plc, which in June abandoned a $21 billion rights
offer, have raised concern among companies that the fees banks
charge for arranging the sales are too high for the risks they
take on.  
 Rights-offer fees soared 50 percent during the credit
crisis to compensate for risk that banks might be forced to buy
unwanted stock. Morgan Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort Ltd. were
among firms left with as much as 92 percent of Edinburgh-based
lender  HBOS Plc ’s 4.2 billion-pound offering in July 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        