-- European Stocks Post Weekly Advance as HSBC, BNP Profits Offset U.S. Data
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-08-06T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/european-stocks-post-weekly-advance-as-hsbc-bnp-profits-offset-u-s-data.html

          
          
             European stocks  climbed this week as
earnings from HSBC Holdings Plc to BNP Paribas offset weaker-
than-forecast U.S. data that reignited concerns about the
strength of the recovery in the world’s biggest economy.
      HSBC , the region’s largest bank, BNP Paribas and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc all climbed after posting profit that topped
analysts’ estimates. Aviva Plc jumped 6.8 percent after the
insurer reported higher profit. Yara International ASA led gains
in agriculture-related companies after wheat prices surged to
the highest level in almost two years.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 1.3 percent to 258.71,
extending last month’s gain of 4.9 percent as company earnings
helped alleviate concern about global growth. About 55 percent
of the gauge’s members that have posted results since July 12
have topped estimates for net income, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 “As long as corporate results are good and stock
valuations low, we remain overweight equities,” said Zurich-
based  Peter Braendle , a fund manager at Swisscanto Asset
Management AG, which oversees $62 billion. “I am more in the
bull camp. We aren’t assuming there will be a heavy double dip
in the economy.”  
 U.S. Jobs  
 Stocks pared gains in the final day of trading this week
after figures out of Washington showed overall employment in the
world’s largest economy fell 131,000 in July, missing the
average forecast for a decline of 65,000. The jobless rate held
at 9.5 percent while private payrolls that exclude government
agencies rose by 71,000, also missing forecasts.  
 American consumer spending, pending home sales and factory
orders were all weaker than projected in June, reports showed on
Aug. 3, indicating the U.S. recovery lost momentum heading into
the second half of the year as employment stagnates.  
 National benchmark indexes still climbed in all 18 western
European markets except Iceland. Germany’s DAX increased 1.8
percent, the U.K.’s  FTSE 100  rose 1.4 percent and France’s CAC
40 advanced 2 percent.  
 HSBC rallied 2.4 percent after first-half pretax profit
more than doubled to $11.1 billion as the North American unit
returned to profit and bad-debt provisions dropped.  
 Bad-Loan Provisions  
 BNP Paribas surged 5.7 percent. The Paris-based lender
reported a 31 percent increase in second-quarter net income to
2.11 billion euros ($2.76 billion) as bad-loan provisions
dropped to the lowest level since before Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy.  
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc  climbed 6.4 percent. The U.K.’s
largest mortgage lender reported a profit for the first time
since its acquisition of HBOS Plc 19 months ago as bad-loan
charges also plunged. Pro-forma pretax profit was 1.6 billion
pounds ($2.54 billion) in the first six months of the year.  
 Standard Chartered Plc , the U.K. bank that gets more than
three quarters of its earnings from Asia, slipped 1.3 percent as
income from its consumer bank missed some analyst estimates.  
 Aviva led a rally among insurance stocks, surging 6.8
percent. The U.K.’s second-biggest insurer as first-half
operating profit increased 21 percent to 1.27 billion pounds.
That also topped analysts’ estimates.  
 Elsewhere, agricultural-related companies advanced after an
export ban by Russia sparked a surge in wheat prices.  Yara , the
largest publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, increased 9.2
percent and rival K+S AG, Europe’s largest potash maker, surged
8.3 percent.  
 Banned Exports  
 Russia, the world’s third-biggest grower of wheat, banned
exports of the grain from Aug. 15 to Dec. 31, after the
country’s worst drought in half a century cut yields.  
 Taylor Wimpey Plc  soared 18 percent, the best performer on
the Stoxx 600 this week. The U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder
by volume reported a profit for the first half of 7.5 million
pounds after the company cut construction costs and earlier
writedowns didn’t recur.  
 Unilever Plc  paced declining shares, falling 6.7 percent
after the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker reporting
revenue growth of 3.6 percent that missed analysts’ estimates as
sales slumped in Western Europe.  
 Next Plc also fell after the U.K.’s second-biggest clothing
retailer forecast “more restrained” consumer spending in the
second half as a revenue decline accelerated. The shares dropped
6.3 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        