-- German 10-Year Government Yields at Two-Month Low After U.S. Loses Jobs
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-08-06T15:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/european-bonds-pare-week-s-gains-as-stocks-rally-before-u-s-jobs-data.html

          
          
             German 10-year bonds rose, pushing
the yield to its lowest level in almost two months, after a
report showed the U.S. economy lost more jobs in July than
economists predicted.  
 French 10-year yields reached a record low. Non-farm U.S.
payrolls fell 131,000 in July after a revised decline of 221,000
in the previous month, the Labor Department reported today. The
median forecast of 84 economists in Bloomberg News survey was
for a reduction of 65,000. A separate report showed German
industrial production unexpectedly declined in June.  
 “We’re just following the U.S. market at the moment,” said
 Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “It’s going to take a
little while for the markets to calm down from this. They are
getting excited.”  
 The yield on the 10-year bund, Europe’s benchmark
government security, fell four basis points to 2.51 percent as
of 4:15 p.m. in London. That’s lowest since June 9. French 10-
year bond yields fell four basis points to 2.77 percent the
lowest since the euro was introduced in 1999.  
 German industrial production fell 0.6 percent from May, when
it rose a revised 2.9 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin
said today.  
 ‘Anemic Recovery’  
 The U.S. faces an “anemic recovery” and the government
will need to enact another round of “better designed” stimulus
measures, according to Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph E. Stiglitz .  
 The Obama administration took “a big gamble and it doesn’t
look like it’s paying off,” Stiglitz told Bloomberg TV in an
interview in Sydney yesterday. “The recovery is so weak that it
is not strong enough to generate new jobs for the new entrants
in the labor force, let alone to find jobs for the 15 million
Americans who would like a job and can’t get one.”  
 Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said today
the Fed is unlikely to raise interest rates for two to three
years.  
 The euro region’s economy and financial markets are
improving, leaving Trichet with the challenge of signposting how
the ECB will scale back its supply of unlimited cash to banks
without throttling the recovery or roiling investors. He
declined to comment on the ECB’s exit plans yesterday, saying
that the next key “rendezvous” will be in a month’s time.  
 ‘Little Bit Better’  
 “The available data for the third quarter are better than
expected,” Trichet told reporters in Frankfurt yesterday. “The
market is functioning a little bit better.”  
 Still, inflation expectations in the euro region have
declined. The French 3-year breakeven rate, the gauge of price
outlook derived from yield difference between regular and index-
linked bonds, fell 23 basis points to 1.25 percentage point from
the end of the second quarter.  
 “Things have taken a significant turn for the better in
the euro region, but my suspicion is that what goes on in the
U.S. will feed into the wider global economy,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income strategist in London at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  
 The ECB will not raise its key  interest rate  until the
second quarter of 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 RBS ‘De-Risking’  
 The yield on 10-year Greek bonds fell two basis points to
10.25 percent. The  extra yield  investors demand for holding the
securities instead of the benchmark German bunds widened 2 basis
points to 763 basis points.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland said today it sold bonds from
nations such as Portugal and Greece during the first half at a
loss of 105 million pounds ($167 million), “de-risking” its
portfolio in the wake of the sovereign debt crisis.  
 “Losses were realized during the first half of the year on
disposal of a portfolio of lower-rated sovereign debt
securities, including Greece and Portugal,” the Edinburgh-based
bank said today as it reported earnings. “The group continued
to reduce exposures to countries with credit ratings of A+ or
below during the second quarter.”  
 Greek bonds handed investors a 16.41 percent loss this year,
making them the worst-performing government securities in the
euro region, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        