-- Old Mutual Rises to Two-Year High on Profit, $350 Million U.S.-Unit Sale
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-08-06T09:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/falcone-s-harbinger-said-to-near-deal-for-old-mutual-s-u-s-insurance-unit.html

          
          
             Old Mutual Plc , Africa’s biggest
insurer, rose to the highest in more than two years in London
trading after announcing a return to profit and the sale of its
U.S. life-insurance unit.  
 The company reported a first-half profit of 265 million
pounds ($421 million), compared with a loss of 70 million pounds
a year earlier, as income from its wealth-management unit rose.
The insurer agreed to sell its U.S. life division to Harbinger
Capital Partners, the hedge fund run by billionaire  Philip Falcone , for $350 million to pay down debt.  
 “The $350 million is a great price for U.S. Life,
especially as it has been on the cards for a long time with many
investors calling for its disposal,”  Chris Gilmour  a
Johannesburg-based analyst at Absa Investments, said in an
e-mailed response to questions today.  
 Africa’s largest insurer is selling the division after
guarantees offered to policyholders and investment writedowns
pushed the group into a loss last year. The disposal will help
Old Mutual reduce debt by 65 percent over the next three years.  
 “This deal marks further progress towards our strategic
objectives of simplifying the group, lowering our risk
profile,” Old Mutual Chief Executive Officer  Julian Roberts 
said in a statement today.  
 Shares Gain  
 The stock climbed 3.4 percent to 127.8 pence as of
9:47 a.m. in London trading, touching the highest level since
May 2008. The insurer will pay a 1.1 pence dividend for the
first half. It didn’t make such a payment last year.  
 “We are confident about the outlook for the full year,
although market uncertainties remain,” the insurer said. The
company is “on track to deliver on our cost reduction and
return on equity targets,” Roberts added.  
 Old Mutual, which gave a debt-reduction target of 1.5
billion pounds in March, said today it has 1.2 billion pounds of
debt left to cut by 2012. The insurer, founded in Cape Town in
 1845 , paid off 44 million pounds of debt in the first half.  
 The numbers from Old Mutual “look very good,”  Ross MacKay , an associate director at  UBS AG’s  investment bank, said
in a note today. Adjusted operating earnings a share at 8.3
pence beat UBS’s estimate of 7.5 pence. The U.S. Life sale price
exceeded expectations at UBS, which had been valuing the
business at zero, MacKay said.  
 Asset Sale  
 Old Mutual’s Roberts declined to comment on speculation
about the possible sale of its  Nedbank Group Ltd.  unit to HSBC
Holdings Plc or  Standard Chartered Plc .  
 “Our position on simplifying the group hasn’t changed,”
he said.  
 The combination of a return to profitability and the
proceeds of an initial public offering of Old Mutual’s U.S.
asset-management business next year should “suffice as far as
the debt reduction target is concerned,” Gilmour at Absa
Investments said. A sale of the stake in Nedbank would raise
“much more” money than needed, he added.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised Old Mutual on the sale of the
U.S. unit. Bank of America Corp. advised Harbinger.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Harbinger Investigated Over Falcone Loan  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg News 
                         
                         Philip A. Falcone, senior managing director of Harbinger Capital Partners. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Philip A. Falcone, senior managing director of Harbinger Capital Partners. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
