-- Fed Reduces Counterparty Asset Requirement for Funds
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-09-23T16:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/fed-drains-225-million-from-banking-system-with-two-day-reverse-repos.html
The  Federal Reserve  reduced by half
the amount of assets money funds are required to hold in order
to become counterparties in transactions when the central bank
begins to drain the record amount of cash added to the financial
system.  Funds must have net assets of no less than $10 billion for
six consecutive months prior to the submission of an
application, the New York Fed said in a statement today. The
threshold was $20 billion when the central bank first announced
the criteria in March.  Jeffrey Smith,  a New York Fed spokesman,
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  The Fed is expanding its counterparties as the 18
securities firms that act as primary dealers work to shore up
their own balance sheets after the worst financial crisis in
decades. The Fed is putting the infrastructure in place to
remove or neutralize the more than $1 trillion in extra cash
from the central bank’s  balance sheet  even as policy makers
contemplate buying additional securities to ensure that the
economic recovery takes hold.  “Fairness and broadness were probably the two reasons why
the Fed lowered the asset requirements,” said  Ira Jersey,  an
interest-rate strategist in New York at primary dealer Credit
Suisse Group AG. “The Fed wants to keep their options open and
be as broad as possible in the eventuality -- which is a long
way off -- that they need to use the reverse repos. They also
don’t want it perceived as the big money funds are getting
special treatment.”  Reverse Repos  The Fed expanded its list of counterparties used for
reverse repurchase agreements last month to add money market
funds managed by 14 firms, including Fidelity Investments and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The new firms aren’t eligible to
participate in other transactions.  In a reverse repo, the Fed sells securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed and the cash to
the primary dealers or other counterparties.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party functions as the
agent for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of New York Mellon Corp. are the
only banks that serve in a trade-clearing capacity in the tri-
party repo market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   liedtka@bloomberg.net  