-- Fed Easing Debate Intensifies as Economic Data Point to Slowing Recovery
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-08-06T19:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/fed-may-return-to-unconventional-easing-as-recovery-slows-goldman-says.html

          
          
             The Federal Reserve may return to
“unconventional” monetary stimulus as early as next week’s
policy meeting as the U.S. economy continues to lose momentum,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 The firm lowered its forecasts for gross domestic product
and raised its estimate for the jobless rate as growth slows and
the “reacceleration in U.S. output” expected for 2011 is made
more doubtful by “heighted Congressional resistance” to
additional fiscal stimulus, Goldman said in a note today.  
 The Fed is likely to begin with reinvesting the proceeds
from maturing securities in its existing portfolio of mortgage-
backed debt in other debt instruments, Goldman economists said.
The measures could also include asset purchases, such as
Treasuries, or a more “ironclad” commitment to low short-term
policy rates, Goldman said. The central bank’s policy-setting
open market committee meets Aug. 10 in Washington.  
 “This would be a ‘baby step’ in the direction of renewed
unconventional easing, although it would probably be packaged as
a decision to prevent a gradual tightening of the overall
stance,” analysts led by chief U.S. economist  Jan Hatzius  in
New York said.  
 Policy makers bought $1.7 trillion of mortgage and
government debt from March 2009 through March of this year to
keep borrowing costs low while the economy recovered from the
worst recession since the 1930s. Should the central bank decide
to resume purchasing fixed-income securities it would buy “at
least $1 trillion,” they said.  
 Goldman lowered its forecast for economic growth in 2011 to
1.9 percent from 2.4 percent and said that the unemployment rate
will return to 10 percent by early next year and remain at that
level for the balance of the year.  
 Employers eliminated 131,000 positions in July after a
revised reduction of 221,000 in the previous month, the Labor
Department said today. The median forecast of 84 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a reduction of 65,000. The
unemployment rate stayed at 9.5 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruge1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Federal Reserve  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Federal Reserve building in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Federal Reserve building in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- John Herrmann, senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets, talks about today's jobs report and the outlook for the U.S. economy. 
     U.S. companies hired fewer workers than forecast in July, Labor Department figures in Washington showed. Herrmann also discusses the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing programs and the outlook for Treasuries. Herrmann talks with Matt Miller and Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Eugene Flood, chief executive officer at Smith Breeden Associates Inc., discusses the prospects for additional stimulus from the Federal Reserve.
     Flood talks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop With Betty Liu." (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
