-- Weak Hiring Intensifies Debate on Possible Fed Easing
-- Caroline Salas
-- 2010-08-06T20:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/fed-easing-debate-intensifies-as-economic-data-point-to-slowing-recovery.html

          
          
             A report U.S. companies hired fewer
workers than forecast last month intensified a debate among
economists over whether Federal Reserve policy makers will take
an incremental step next week toward providing more stimulus.  
 U.S. central bankers said in June that more monetary
stimulus “might become appropriate” if the economic outlook
“were to worsen appreciably.” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
last month the Fed may at some point maintain stimulus by
investing the proceeds from maturing bonds into U.S. Treasuries.  
 “I lean toward a result where the Fed talks about
reinvesting mortgage-backed securities runoff at next week’s
meeting but decides to wait six weeks and see what the economic
data bring,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “The economic recovery
downshifted in May but activity is absolutely not hurtling
toward a double dip.”  
 Government figures showed today that private payrolls
increased by 71,000 jobs last month, less than the 90,000
economists had forecast. While the data may not alone force the
Fed’s hand, other indicators including a slump in housing point
to a slowing recovery and greater odds policy makers will move
toward more easing at an Aug. 10 meeting, some economists said.  
 Retailers in the U.S. reported July sales gains that missed
analysts’ estimates as consumers reduced spending before the
back-to-school season. A manufacturing gauge tracked by the
Institute for Supply Management fell, while a similar index
tracking service industries rose.  
 Reinvest Proceeds  
 “The labor report increases the chance that they make the
decision to reinvest the proceeds of maturing mortgage-backed
securities in short-term U.S. Treasuries at this meeting,” said
 Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc.
in New York. “They were heading in that direction anyway.”  
 Bernanke outlined three options for additional ease in
response last month to questions from Senator  Richard Shelby , an
Alabama Republican. The Fed chairman said in semi-annual
testimony to Congress that the central bank could strengthen its
commitment to keep interest rates low, or lower the rate it pays
on bank reserves.  
 “The third class of things, though, has to do with changes
in our balance sheet, and that would involve either not letting
securities runoff as they are currently running off, or even
making additional purchases,” Bernanke said.  
 The Standard and Poor’s 500 Stock  Index  fell 0.4 percent to
1,121.64, after earlier falling as much as 1.7 percent. Yields
on U.S. 2-year notes fell below 0.5 percent for the first time
as Treasuries rallied.  
 ‘Slow Drip’  
 “The behavior of the financial markets will have much to
say about how the Fed ultimately interprets the employment
report,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital
Markets Group in New York. “Policy makers very much have their
eye on what is happening with equities and corporate-bond yields
when attempting to divine where the economy is headed. They had
to take some heart from the fact that July was a month of
improvement, and they would not like to see that improvement
reversed in August.”  
 The S&P 500 rallied 6.9 percent in July, its best monthly
 performance  in a year.  
 Policy makers will probably “return to unconventional
monetary easing by” late this year or early in 2011,  Jan Hatzius , chief U.S. economist for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  in
New York, said in a note to clients. Such steps may include “a
more iron-clad commitment to low short-term policy rates” and
more purchases of assets, probably Treasuries.  
 Fed Purchase  
 The Fed would purchase at least $1 trillion in additional
assets, he said.  
 With 30-year mortgage rates trending around 4.5 percent to
4.75 percent, the Fed will have about $275 billion of its $1.1
trillion portfolio of mortgage-backed securities pay off over
the course of this year, according to estimates by Barclays
Capital Inc. That leaves about $23 billion a month for
reinvestment if Fed officials choose that option.  
 “It’s a slow drip of quantitative easing medicine rather
than a big shot,” said  Robert Dye , senior economist at PNC
Financial Services Group Inc. in Pittsburgh. “That’s going to
be a mostly symbolic move telling the public that the Fed
remains watchful.”  
 Joseph Abate , Barclays’ money market strategist in New
York, said if the Fed chose to reinvest, that would signify they
have a target for the level of excess bank reserves, currently
at $1 trillion.  
 “Is the Fed trying to target a specific level of bank
reserves?” he said. “I don’t think they are.”  
 Barclays’ View  
 Barclays’ economists don’t expect the Fed to take more
monetary policy steps at next week’s meeting and for the
remainder of 2010.  
 The Fed may communicate next week more attentiveness to
downside risks to growth, said  Laurence Meyer , senior managing
director of Macroeconomic Advisers LLC and a former Fed
governor. “We expect the committee to offer a more pessimistic
assessment of the outlook in its statement,” he said.  
 Meyer also said he hopes the Federal Open Market Committee
will give consideration to the “risk management” strategy
employed during the last deflation scare.  
 “The risk management approach calls for an easier policy
today,” Meyer said. “It is better to err on the side of being
too easy when the risks to growth are decidedly to the downside
and the costs of slower growth are high and the risks of higher
inflation are low.”  
 Still, Meyer said that, given the absence of any focus on
the risk management approach so far, the threshold for taking
action at the August meeting is high.  
 “It is a big deal to take a step toward easing after you
have spent a year talking about the exit strategy,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        