-- FHA to Encourage Refinancing of Troubled Mortgages
-- Lorraine Woellert
-- 2010-08-06T21:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/fha-aid-for-owners-whose-homes-are-worth-less-than-mortgage-starts-sept-7.html

          
          
             The Federal Housing Administration
said it will begin accepting applications Sept. 7 for its
program to help borrowers who owe more on their mortgages than
their homes are worth.  
 The Short Refinance program, which the agency announced in
March, encourages lenders to forgive 10 percent or more of the
balance of a mortgage so the loans can be refinanced at a lower
interest rate. That would remove the troubled loans from the
lender’s books and allow borrowers to lower their payments.  
 To qualify, the total principal in the new loan and any
existing second loans must not exceed 115 percent of the
property’s value.  
 “We’re throwing a lifeline out to those families who are
current on their mortgage and are experiencing financial
hardships because property values in their community have
declined,” FHA Commissioner  David Stevens  said in a statement
today.  
 Stevens said in an interview he expects lenders to
participate in the program to reduce their troubled loans.  
 “It’s a better decision than just risking default of the
loan because it’s in negative equity,” Stevens said.  
 A refinancing is considered short when a home’s value has
fallen to less than the debt it secures and the lender forgives
a portion of the loan. The borrower is freed to take out a new,
less-expensive mortgage.  
 The agency estimated that 500,000 to 1.5 million borrowers
would be able to refinance under the new program.  
 Credit Score  
 To qualify, borrowers must have a credit score of 500 or
higher. Lenders who hold second mortgages on a property and
agree to forgive debt can earn $500 for each successful
refinance, the FHA said in a  letter  to lenders.  
 Borrowers must live in the homes they’re refinancing to
qualify, and the new first mortgage must not exceed 97.75
percent of the home’s value.  
 The program will be funded with up to $14 billion from the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, which is meant to cover the
lender incentives and any losses on the new loans. Congress
authorized the $700 billion TARP in October 2008 to inject
capital into the banking system amid fears of a collapse.  
 The program will give lenders a way to cap losses on
distressed loans while helping borrowers shed high interest
rates, said  David Berenbaum , chief program officer for the
National Community Reinvestment Coalition, a Washington-based
advocacy group for lower-income neighborhoods.  
 Market Motivation  
 “In essence the lender is transferring the loan to FHA,”
Berenbaum said. “There may be some market motivation on the
part of investors because they’re getting some return on the
portfolio and they’re limiting the risk.”  
 The FHA’s program is part of a package of plans by the
administration of President  Barack Obama  designed to help
distressed homeowners. The U.S. Treasury’s Home Affordable
Modification Program, which offers mortgage workouts to
distressed homeowners with loans guaranteed by Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, in coming weeks will begin providing incentives to
lenders who write down loan principal.  
 The FHA, which provides a government guarantee on mortgages
with low downpayments, has experienced a rise in loan volume
since 2006 as private lenders have withdrawn from the real
estate market. The agency insures about a third of new single-
family mortgages.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        