-- Five French World Cup Players to Face Disciplinary Committee Over Strike
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-08-06T14:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/five-french-soccer-players-to-face-discipline-board-for-world-cup-strike.html

          
          
             Five members of the 2010 French World
Cup team will appear in front of a disciplinary committee for
their role in a players’ strike during the tournament.  
 The French Football Federation committee will meet later
this month to decide what measures to take against striker
 Nicolas Anelka , defender  Eric Abidal , defender and team captain
 Patrice Evra , winger  Franck Ribery  and midfielder Jeremy
Toulalon.  
 “These five players were selected because each claimed a
key role in the strike,” Laurent Davenas, a judge who was
appointed to a three-person panel that looked into the team’s
behavior at the World Cup, told reporters after he left a FFF
board meeting today in Paris.  
 The entire 23-man World Cup squad refused to train June 20
to protest Anelka being sent home for insulting coach  Raymond Domenech  during halftime of a 2-0 loss to Mexico. France, world
champions in 1998, was eliminated in the first round in South
Africa with two losses and a draw. Anelka’s expletives ended up
on the front page of daily sports newspaper l’Equipe.  
 Bayern Munich’s Ribery, Barcelona’s Abidal, and Manchester
United’s Evra were seen as ringleaders of the strike, while
Olympique Lyonnais’s Toulalan wrote the letter that explained
the reasons for the strike.  
 Lilian Thuram , a member of the 1998 team and a FFF board
member, said some players might have not joined the strike if
they’d known more details.  
 “Not all the players knew that Anelka had been given two
chances to apologize for his comments, and had refused,” Thuram
said. “I think that might have changed things.”  
 Excluded Players  
 Laurent Blanc , who took over as national team coach after
the World Cup, excluded players from South Africa in the team he
announced yesterday for an Aug. 11 exhibition against Norway. At
a press conference, Blanc argued against any collective
punishments beyond the game in Oslo.  
 “I have a job to do which is to qualify the team for the
European Championships and I need my strongest elements,” he
said.  
 France starts its qualifying matches for Euro 2012 against
Belarus on Sept. 3 and Bosnia on Sept. 7.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        