-- Floods From Pakistan to Korea May Strain Aid as Food Costs Soar
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-08-06T09:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/floods-from-pakistan-to-north-korea-strain-aid-as-global-food-costs-soar.html

          
          
             Floods sweeping through a swath of
Asia from Pakistan to North Korea have killed thousands, left
millions homeless and may stretch aid efforts as crops are
destroyed at a time of soaring wheat prices.  
 At least 1.8 million people urgently need food supplies in
Pakistan after the deadliest floods in 80 years, according to
the United Nations World Food  Programme . In North Korea, rains
triggered landslides that blocked railways, destroyed homes and
buried crops, piling on hardship for a country that already
needs aid to feed its 24 million people. Floods in China have
killed at least 1,072 people this year, affecting 9.7 million
hectares of farmland, according to the government.  
 Damage to crops and food stores may hinder aid to flood
victims and other vulnerable groups in the region and raise
concerns of a repeat of the 2008 food crisis, when record prices
sparked protests from Haiti to the Philippines. Wheat prices
rallied to the highest in almost two years today as a drought
prompted Russia to ban exports and floods hit farms in Canada,
the world’s No.2 supplier of the grain last year.  
 “Mother-nature is playing a very evil hand,”  Peter McGuire , managing director at CWA Global Markets Pty. said in a
phone interview from Sydney today. “It’s always the poor that
suffer.”  
 More than 1,500 people have died in Pakistan’s northwest
and four million people are stranded after floods that first
struck July 22. Waters demolished homes and bridges and swept
away major roads across Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab, and crops
across the nation were damaged. Five percent of the nation’s
rice crop has been damaged, the Rice Exporters Association said.  
 Aid Hampered  
 Communication networks have been disrupted and rains are
hampering relief efforts, according to Unicef. Skin and
respiratory infections and diarrhea are rising among displaced
people, Doctors Without Borders said yesterday.  
 More heavy rains are forecast in Pakistan over the weekend,
the weather office said today by telephone from Islamabad.  
 Floodwaters caused “ significant damage ” to food stocks of
the UN World Food Programme in Pakistan, hurting supplies for
aid programs in the South Asian nation and across the border in
Afghanistan, the agency said in a statement Aug. 1.  
 In Asia, Afghanistan and North Korea are the most
susceptible to shortages of food, the Economic Research
Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture said in a July
report. “Afghanistan and North Korea are the region’s most
vulnerable countries,” the report titled “Food Security
Assessment, 2010-20,” said.  
 About 62 percent of the hungry people in the world are in
the Asia Pacific and about a fourth are in sub-Saharan Africa,
according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization. The
number of people who are hungry surged to 1.02 billion
in 2009, the highest since 1970, the agency said.  
 North Korea  
 In North Korea thousands of homes, public buildings and
factories were ruined and about 14,859 hectares of farmland
“submerged, buried or washed away,” the nation’s state-run
Korea Central News Agency reported yesterday.  
 Flooding in the 1990s triggered a famine in the country
that may have killed as many as 2 million people, according to a
1999 study by the Washington-based U.S. Institute of Peace. North
Korea faces a shortfall of about 1 million tons of rice a year,
according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  
 “Their food shortages are serious, even without any
natural disasters,” said Jiang Yuechun, a researcher at the
China Institute of International Studies. “Now, with the threat
from floods, their condition is truly worrying.”  
 North Korea hasn’t requested assistance from the World Food
Programme,  Marcus Prior , a Bangkok-based spokesman for the UN
agency, said today by e-mail. The WFP “stands ready with
emergency supplies,” he said.  
 Unprecedented Rain  
 An unprecedented amount of rain had already inundated the
Yalu and Tumen rivers bordering China, with more forecast for
the region, Xinhua News Agency reported late yesterday, citing
an official in the border city of Dandong.  
 China’s worst floods in more than a decade may cut
production of rice and pork in the largest producer, boosting
prices and hampering government efforts to keep inflation under
3 percent. Rice output may fall 5 percent to 7 percent, Li Qiang,
managing director at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said this
week.  
 China evacuated about 18,000 villagers in northeastern
Jilin province as forecasts for more rain spurred concern that
the Songhua river may overflow its banks. The Yanbian Korean
Autonomous Prefecture has suffered the worst floods in a hundred
years this year, with nearly a quarter of its 2.18 million
residents affected, Xinhua said, citing the local government.  
 Feast or Famine  
 As Asian governments grapple with too much rain, wheat-
growing regions of Europe and Central Asia have the opposite
problem.  
 Wheat has doubled in less than two months as drought
slashed the harvest in Russia, the third-largest grower,
prompting Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to ban exports yesterday.
Dry weather in Kazakhstan, Ukraine and the European Union has
also buoyed prices. Rice, a staple for half the world, rallied 9
percent in July, its biggest monthly advance since October.  
 The UN FAO Food Price Index, which tracks global prices
of meat, dairy, cereals, sugar, oils and fats around, rose to
165.5 in July, the highest since February, according to its
website.  
 The surge in wheat prices may fuel another food crisis as
early as the fourth quarter this year, as millers seek cheaper
substitutes for livestock feeds, sending prices of corn higher,
and dragging with it the cost of soybeans, said  Franciscus Welirang , chairman of the Flour Mills Association in Indonesia,
Asia’s biggest importer of wheat.  
 Another global food crisis “is what we worry about in the
fourth quarter or first quarter of next year,” Welirang said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Local residents scramble to recover water bottles  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Berehulak/Getty Images 
                         
                         Local residents scramble to recover water bottles dropped from a Pakistan Air force helicopter in Nowshera, Pakistan. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Local residents scramble to recover water bottles dropped from a Pakistan Air force helicopter in Nowshera, Pakistan. Photographer: Daniel Berehulak/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
