-- For-Profit Colleges Tumble After American Public Scraps Earnings Forecast
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-08-06T20:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/for-profit-colleges-tumble-after-american-public-scraps-earnings-forecast.html

          
          
             For-profit colleges in the U.S.
slumped after  American Public Education Inc.  rescinded its
earnings forecast and  Washington Post Co.  said proposed federal
rules may hurt its Kaplan unit.  
 An  index  of 12 schools retreated 5.1 percent, the most
since December, as American Public Education tumbled a record 32
percent to $28.96 at 4 p.m. New York time. Washington Post,
which got more than  half  its 2009 revenue from its education
division, slumped 7.6 percent to $377.56.  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  has proposed tougher industry
regulations because of concern that recruiters working for for-
profit colleges are signing up unqualified students and leaving
them with loans they may be unable to repay. American Public,
based in Charles Town, West Virginia, had its stock rating
reduced by at least four firms including BMO Capital Markets and
ThinkEquity LLC, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “There’s a government overhang,” said  Frank Ingarra , a
Stamford, Connecticut-based money manager at Hennessy Advisors
Inc., which oversees about $850 million. “The stocks won’t move
forward until you get more clarity on the effect of the
government rules.”  
 Democratic Senators  Richard Durbin  of Illinois and  Jim Webb 
of Virginia said they have asked for information from the
Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs about how military
tuition assistance program money is being spent to pay for
education expenses at for-profit colleges.  
 “American Public Education has recently observed adverse
changes in our historical pattern of growth in net course
registrations from active duty military students,” the company
said in a statement yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        