-- From Fires in Russia to Flooding in Asia, Extreme Weather Taking Its Toll
-- Madelene Pearson
-- 2010-08-06T19:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/from-fires-in-russia-to-flooding-in-asia-extreme-weather-taking-its-toll.html

          
          
             Floods have killed thousands in Asia
and left millions homeless from Pakistan to North Korea, while
fires and drought in Russia have roiled global markets and a
tropical storm bears down on Bermuda.  
 Asian devastation may stretch aid efforts as crops are
destroyed at a time of soaring wheat prices, caused in part by
Russia’s decision to ban grain exports through Dec. 31. Raw-
sugar futures also rose in New York on speculation that Russia
may import more to offset drought losses.  
 In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Colin reformed and is
bearing down on Bermuda with maximum sustained winds of 45 miles
(75 kilometers) per hour, according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center in Miami. The storm is expected to drop as much
as 5 inches of rain on the island nation starting tomorrow.  
 “Mother Nature is playing a very evil hand,”  Peter McGuire , managing director at CWA Global Markets Pty., said in a
telephone interview from Sydney today. “It’s always the poor
that suffer.”  
 More than 1,500 people have died in Pakistan’s northwest
and 4 million people are stranded after the deadliest floods in
80 years struck July 22. Five percent of the nation’s rice crop
has been damaged, the Rice Exporters Association said, and at
least 1.8 million people urgently need food, according to the
United Nations  World Food Program .  
 In North Korea, rains triggered landslides that blocked
railways, destroyed homes and buried crops, piling on hardship
for a country that already needs aid to feed its 24 million
people. Floods in China have killed at least 1,072 people this
year, affecting 9.7 million hectares of farmland, according to
the government.  
 China Floods  
 China’s worst floods in more than a decade may cut rice and
pork supplies for the largest producer, boosting prices and
hampering government efforts to keep inflation under 3 percent.
Rice output may fall 5 percent to 7 percent, Li Qiang, managing
director at Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., said this week.  
 Damage to crops and food stores may hinder aid to flood
victims and other vulnerable groups in the region and raise
concerns of a repeat of the 2008 food crisis, when record prices
sparked protests from Haiti to the Philippines. Wheat prices
rallied to the highest in almost two years today because of the
ban by Russian, the third-largest exporter, and floods in
Canada, the world’s sixth-largest supplier of the grain.  
 On the opposite side of the world, dry weather is also
affecting the winter wheat crop in western Australia, said  David Streit , senior lead forecaster with Commodity Weather Group in
Bethesda, Maryland.  
 Australian Weather  
 “The markets are starting to focus on that because wheat
is so tight right now,” Streit said.  
 Adding to the trouble in Russia are forest and peat-bog
fires east of Moscow that have shrouded the city in smoke and
delayed as many as 140 flights at the capital’s airport.  
 Carbon monoxide in Moscow’s air rose to as high as 4.8
times the admissible maximum level before tapering off slightly
toward evening, the city’s environmental protection department
said on its  website . The Health Ministry  advised  Russians to
stay indoors, limit physical activity and wear masks when
venturing outside.  
 Emergency crews are battling 558 fires covering 179,596
hectares (693 square miles) across Russia, the Emergency
Situations Ministry said on its  website  today. So far this year,
fires have scorched 729,761 hectares, an area about three times
the size of Luxembourg, according to the ministry. The fires
have  killed  at least 52 people, the Health Ministry said.  
 Firefighters and farmers won’t get any relief from nature
any time soon, said  Streit .  
 “The ridge that is responsible for the record-setting heat
is still going to be with us for the next 10 days,” Streit
said.  
 If the drought continues, it may hinder efforts to plant a
winter wheat crop in Russia, Streit said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        