-- Gay Marriage to Live Happily Ever After: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-08-06T14:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/gay-marriage-ruling-may-live-happily-ever-after-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             This week’s ruling in California
represents more than a setback for opponents of same-sex
marriage. It lays bare the sparseness of their evidence, the
emptiness of their legal arguments and the hollowness of their
claims that gay marriage would somehow undermine straight ones.  
 In 136 pages, U.S. District Judge  Vaughn Walker  analyzed
testimony and studies that were scientific, historical,
sociological and personal. He examined arguments constitutional
and political.  
 And when he was done, he left little obvious room for
reversal on appeal. However conservative the U.S. Supreme Court
has become, and however sharply it is divided, chances are
decent that the thrust of Walker’s order will survive.  
 What he said was this: It violates the Constitution’s
 equal-protection  promise to deny a minority group the
fundamental right to wed. He found no compelling state interest
in forbidding such marriages.  
 There was no credible evidence that society, the
institution of marriage, children or anyone else would be harmed
if gay people marry, he ruled. In fact, all evidence pointed to
the benefits of letting people marry those they love and giving
their children a more stable, legitimized family life.  
 Without any rational basis for banning these marriages, all
that’s left is “the belief that same-sex couples simply are not
as good as opposite-sex couples.” Whether the belief stems from
religion, moral disapproval or animus, none can justify
discrimination, Walker said.  
 No License Lines  
 Couples can’t line up for licenses yet. Walker temporarily
halted enforcement of his order until he can decide whether to
make it effective during the appeal. The lawyers’ briefs on the
question are due today.  
 It may seem plain wrong that one federal judge in San
Francisco could reverse the will of millions of Californians,
who voted by a 52 percent majority to amend their constitution
to bar same-sex marriage.  
 Those who assume Walker must be some sort of liberal
activist might be surprised to learn he was first nominated by
President  Ronald Reagan  and blocked by Democrats including  Nancy Pelosi , who feared he was insensitive to gay and minority
rights.  George H.W. Bush  finally got him on the court.  
 Critics of the ruling are  crying  foul nonetheless, citing a
San Francisco Chronicle  column  from February that said it’s an
“open secret” that Walker is gay, something the judge has
neither confirmed or denied.  
 Fundamental Right  
 Opponents of same-sex marriage stress that the U.S.
Constitution offers no specific protection for it, and no
Supreme Court ruling has done that, either.  
 The problem with Proposition 8 is that the majority can’t
vote to deny a minority a fundamental right protected by the
Constitution without a really good reason.  
 And if you read Walker’s order, you see that the evidence
at trial was completely lopsided in favor of gay-marriage
supporters, as was the legal basis for their claim. We will get
back to that shortly.  
 For those hoping the Supreme Court will find Walker’s
ruling flat-out wrong, I offer these words: Lawrence v. Texas.  
 That was the court’s 6-3 ruling that said Texas couldn’t
make gay sodomy a crime, notwithstanding “profound and deep
convictions accepted as ethical and moral principles.”  
 Tie Breaker  
 The 2003 case is salient now not only for its ruling,
repeatedly cited in this week’s California decision, but also
for its author. That would be  Anthony Kennedy , these days the
justice most likely to break an ideologically tied vote.  
 Kennedy also wrote the 1996 opinion that struck down a
Colorado constitutional amendment meant to allow discrimination
against gays in housing, jobs and just about everything. That,
too, was 6-3.  
 The “disqualification of a class of persons from the right
to seek specific protection from the law is unprecedented in our
jurisprudence,” Kennedy wrote in that one.  
 Justice  Antonin Scalia , in his dissent in the Lawrence
case, said decriminalizing gay sex softens the ground for gay
marriage rights.  
 The court, he wrote, “has largely signed on to the so-
called homosexual agenda,” which is “directed at eliminating
the moral opprobrium that has traditionally attached to
homosexual conduct.”  
 Legal Movement  
 However risible the term “homosexual agenda,” Scalia
correctly identified a movement aimed at ending discrimination
based on sexual orientation.  
 And if the Supreme Court has, indeed, signed onto it,
Walker’s ruling stands an excellent chance of holding up.  
 It’s always risky to count Supreme Court votes so far in
advance. One justice has yet to take her seat, and another has
barely warmed hers. Plus, we like to think the fine points of
the law will be duly considered on their merits by open-minded
jurists, ideology notwithstanding.  
 Having stated those caveats, let’s call a 4-4 ideological
split probable, with Kennedy breaking the tie in favor of gay
marriage.  
 At the trial in California, proponents of same-sex marriage
rights offered nine multidegreed, well-published experts in an
array of relevant fields. They said research shows children of
gay couples were as likely to be well-adjusted as children of
opposite sex couples, and same-sex marriages won’t undermine
“traditional” marriage.  
 Expert Testimony  
 Gay-marriage opponents offered only one “expert” claiming
to know something about homosexuality and marriage. He had no
academic training in the topic and no original research, unless
you count surfing the Internet as research.  
 And, oh yeah: He testified that polygamy is really a two-
person marriage because the husband has a one-on-one
relationship with each wife.  
 The only other expert for the opponents’ side was a
professor called to talk about the political strength of gays
and lesbians. He had to acknowledge he actually knew very little
about the subject.  
 It turns out gay-marriage opponents were far more
successful at convincing California voters they should fear
same-sex couplings than they were at convincing the judge.  
 But then, in the popular arena, you don’t have to back up
your claims with facts. You can rely on prejudice to help you
fan fears. It’s fine to base your campaign on purely religious
grounds. None of that works in court.  
 At least, it didn’t work in Walker’s court.  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        