-- German Industrial Production Unexpectedly Declines
-- Jana Randow
-- 2010-08-06T11:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/german-industrial-output-unexpectedly-declines-on-investment-goods-slump.html

          
          
             Industrial production  in Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, unexpectedly declined in June led by a
drop in investment goods such as machinery and trucks.  
 Production fell 0.6 percent from May, when it rose a
revised 2.9 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a gain of 0.5 percent, the median of 25
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed. From a year
earlier, production increased 10.9 percent when adjusted for the
number of work days.  
 Economic growth in the  euro region , Germany’s biggest
export market, may weaken as governments cut spending to trim
budget deficits and restore investor confidence. At the same
time, Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis has pushed the euro down 8
percent against the dollar this year, making exports to
countries outside the 16-nation currency bloc more competitive.  
 “It’s not the end of the world,” said  Ralph Solveen , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, who forecasts the
German economy grew 1.5 percent in the three months through
June. “Production rose strongly in the second quarter and
orders suggest that output will continue to increase markedly.”  
 The euro extended its decline against the dollar after the
report and was down 0.2 percent to $1.3165 at 1:03 p.m. in
Frankfurt.  
 ‘Foreign Impulses’  
 Manufacturing output fell 0.9 percent from May, when it
rose 3.2 percent, today’s report showed. Output of investment
goods declined 1.1 percent in the month and production of basic
goods dropped 1 percent. Construction output fell 0.9 percent.  
 “Strong foreign impulses and a revival of investment
activity significantly boosted production in the second quarter,
the ministry said in the statement. “Given the considerably
improved order situation, output should remain a pillar of a
continued economic upswing in Germany over the coming months.”  
 Adding to signs of recovery, German  manufacturing orders 
jumped more than twice as much as economists forecast in June.
 Business confidence  surged in July and companies including
 Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, and
 Siemens AG , Europe’s biggest engineering company, have raised
their earnings forecasts.  
 Euro-area data “suggest a strengthening in economic
activity in the second quarter of 2010, and the available data
for the third quarter are better than expected,” European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday. He
sees a “moderate and still uneven” recovery.  
 ‘Muted Optimism’  
 “While today’s figures came in weaker than expected, the
German growth locomotive is definitely not slowing down,” said
 Peter Vanden Houte , an economist at ING in Brussels. “In the
light of the current figures, the ECB’s muted optimism on the
economy seems fully warranted.”  
 Spain’s economic growth accelerated to 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from 0.1 percent in the previous three months,
the Bank of Spain said in an estimate today. The Italian  economy 
expanded 0.4 percent.  
 The 16-nation region probably expanded 0.7 percent in the
second quarter, with German growth accelerating to 1.3 percent
from 0.2 percent, two separate Bloomberg surveys show. The
reports will be published on Aug. 13.  
 Exports, which surged 9.2 in May, will be one of the “main
driving forces” for growth this year, the Bundesbank said on
June 11. The central bank predicts the economy to grow 1.9
percent this year and 1.4 percent in 2011.  
 Still, companies may struggle to maintain their sales
growth as the global economy shows signs of weakening. China’s
economic expansion slowed in the second quarter. In the U.S.,
the world’s largest economy, consumer spending, pending home
sales and factory orders were all weaker than forecast in June.  
 European austerity measures introduced to cut budget
deficits may also undermine the recovery.  
 “Budget cuts are a serious risk,” said  Arnd Schaefer , an
economist at WestLB in Dusseldorf, Germany. “They will probably
damp growth but the German economy is very well positioned and
in excellent shape.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       German industrial production unexpectedly declines  
                       
                         
                           Guido Krzikowski/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An employee assembles a MAN SE truck on the assembly line at the company's factory in Munich. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An employee assembles a MAN SE truck on the assembly line at the company's factory in Munich. Photographer: Guido Krzikowski/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
