-- Great Eastern Energy Plans Share Sale in India to Develop Coal-Bed Methane
-- Dinakar Sethuraman
-- 2010-08-06T08:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/great-eastern-energy-plans-share-sale-in-india-to-develop-coal-bed-methane.html

          
          
             Great Eastern Energy Corp. , India’s
first producer of coal-bed methane gas, may raise money through
a domestic initial public offering within three years while
expanding exploration areas in the country, its president said.  
 The company may produce as much as 120 million cubic feet a
day at peak production, President  Prashant Modi  said in an
interview in Singapore today. Great Eastern Energy is selling
the gas at prices at least 62 percent more than what Reliance
Industries Ltd. is allowed to charge for the fuel, based on data
from Modi and India’s government.  
 “We will look for more acreages in India,” Modi said.
“The policies for oil and gas exploration in India are one of
the best in the world.” The country may offer a fifth round of
CBM exploration and shale rock areas, he said.  
 Full-year revenue almost quadrupled after boosting gas
sales to 157.7 million rupees ($3.4 million), from 40.1 million
rupees a year earlier, the Haryana, India-based company said in
a statement last month. Gas under sales agreements rose more
than fourfold to 24.62 million standard cubic feet per day.  
 The completion of a 77.6-kilometer (48.2-mile) distribution
network this year has opened up the markets of Asansol, Kulti
and Durgapur in western India, Modi said.  
 Great Eastern Energy said last month that it won a coal-bed
methane block in Mannargudi in India’s Tamil Nadu state. The
explorer is currently producing about 3.7 million cubic feet a
day of gas from its existing block in West Bengal state. Coal-
bed methane, or coal-seam gas, is natural gas extracted from a
bed of coal.  
 Higher Prices  
 The government has approved a minimum price of $6.79 per
million British thermal units at the well head in Bengal,
excluding transportation and taxes, Modi said. The government
set the price of gas at $4.20 per million British thermal units
for selling the fuel from the deepwater gas area in Krishna
Godavari basin operated by Reliance.  
 Conventional oil and gas producers are allowed to recover
costs before paying royalties while coal-bed methane explorers
must pay the government from the start of production, Modi said.  
 The company is producing from about 30 wells, with the
total number of wells drilled at 75, Modi said. The well count
may rise to 300 in five years to six years when production
reaches a peak, he said.  
 Great Eastern Energy global depositary receipts in London
have risen 44 percent in the past year to 447.5 pence.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        