-- GVK Power to Raise $325 Million Selling Energy Unit Stake, Chairman Says
-- Tushar Dhara
-- 2010-08-06T22:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/gvk-power-plans-to-invest-50-billion-rupees-in-mumbai-bangalore-airports.html

          
          
             GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. , an
Indian generator backed by T. Rowe Price Group Inc., plans to
raise as much as 15 billion rupees ($326 million) selling a
stake in its energy unit to boost generating capacity.  
 The builder of airports and power plants plans to sell
securities that can be converted into equity of its unit, GVK
Energy Ltd., Chairman  G.V. Krishna Reddy  said in an interview in
Hyderabad, where the company is based. GVK is in talks with
private equity firms for the sale, he said.  
 GVK joins Asian Genco Pte in seeking private equity funding
as investors prepare to tap rising electricity demand in Asia’s
second-most populous nation. India, ranked below Ivory Coast and
Sri Lanka for the quality of infrastructure, plans to increase
generation by 77 percent in the next seven years to reduce
blackouts and drive the world’s third-fastest growing major
economy.  
 “Raising the money this time will not be a problem because
they are putting the money in the new energy company,” said
 Ujjal Deb Roy , an analyst at VCK Share & Stock Broking Services
Ltd. in Kolkata. Still, the company needs to plan its fund
raising because “if it continuously dilutes earnings, investors
will not get value out of the project.”  
 GVK, which has  declined  5.7 percent this year, rose 1.4
percent to 43.8 rupees in Mumbai yesterday. The benchmark Sensex
Index has advanced 3.9 percent this year. GVK shareholders
approved the transfer of the company’s power subsidiaries to GVK
Energy, according to a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange on
June 30.  
 Asian Genco  
 Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Partners and a group of
global investors are investing $425 million in Asian Genco, an
infrastructure company with power generation assets in India.
The group includes General Atlantic LLC, Goldman Sachs
Investment Management, Norwest Venture Partners and Everstone
Capital, Asian Genco said. PTC India Ltd., the nation’s biggest
power trader, will remain an investor in the various projects.  
 Larsen & Toubro Ltd., India’s largest engineering company,
on April 16 said it plans to create a $300 million private
equity fund to invest in power, road projects in India.  
 Government agencies are also easing rules to attract
investors. The Reserve Bank of India on April 20 said lenders
won’t need to value bonds, sold by infrastructure companies with
a maturity of at least seven years, at market rates.  
 The central bank also eased provisioning rules for
infrastructure projects. India said it plans to double spending
on building utilities, roads and ports to $1 trillion in the
five years ending 2017.  
 Infrastructure Spend  
 India spends 6.5 percent of its gross domestic product on
infrastructure, compared with 11 percent in China, according to
consulting firm Ernst & Young LLP.  
 GVK also plans to invest as much as 50 billion rupees ($1.1
billion) to expand Bangalore and Mumbai airports this year as
traffic expands, Reddy said.  
 Nationwide, the number of domestic passengers will grow
more than fourfold to 180 million by 2020, according to a
ministry of civil aviation forecast. Air travel in India has
gained as per capita incomes doubled over the past five years
and discount carriers such as SpiceJet Ltd. started operations.  
 India’s aviation industry has the potential to attract as
much as $110 billion in investments by 2020, V.P. Agrawal,
chairman of Airports Authority of India, said July 29.  
 T. Rowe Price  owns  about 4 percent of GVK, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        