-- Imperial Sugar Says U.S. Price to Extend Gain Through 2010 on Tight Supply
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2010-08-06T20:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/imperial-sugar-says-u-s-price-to-extend-gain-through-2010-on-tight-supply.html

          
          
             Imperial Sugar Co. , the second-
largest U.S. processor, said tight domestic supplies of the
sweetener will keep prices high through the end of the year.  
 “Limited trade inventory is resulting in price
increases,” Chief Executive Officer  John C. Sheptor  said today
on a earnings conference call with analysts. “The same scenario
will continue through the fourth quarter,” when the domestic
beet harvest matures, he said.  
 The ratio of stockpiles to consumption may fall to 7.9
percent in the season starting Oct. 1, the lowest level in 53
years, government data show. The premium for U.S. sugar over
world prices was 18.5 cents a pound in May, the highest level in
at least 18 months. A “normal” spread would be 8 cents to 10
cents,  Sheptor  said.  
 Domestic sugar traded on ICE Futures U.S. in New York has
rallied 10 percent in the past month to 32.01 cents a pound, up
33 percent from a year earlier.  
 Sugar is the only major agricultural commodity produced in
the U.S. that is subject to import quotas. The limits were
established to benefit domestic growers of sugar beets and cane,
and keep prices higher than the world price of raw sugar, which
closed today at 18.24 cents.  
 “Raw-sugar prices have been a challenge for us,” said
Sheptor, who forecast the spread between domestic and world
sugar will remain about 16 cents a pound. “Refined-sugar prices
improved, but the rise was not sufficient to protect against
rising raw-sugar prices.”  
 Imperial Sugar , based in Sugar Land, Texas, reported a loss
of $5.7 million, or 48 cents a share, in the fiscal third
quarter ended June 30, compared with a net loss of $10.5
million, or 89 cents, a year earlier.  
 Domino Foods Inc., based in Iselin, New Jersey, is the
largest U.S. sugar refiner by capacity.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        