-- Indian Oil May Sell New Shares If State Cuts Stake, Chairman Bansal Says
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-08-06T10:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/indian-oil-may-sell-new-shares-if-government-reduces-stake-to-raise-funds.html

          
          
             Indian Oil Corp. , the nation’s
biggest company, may sell new shares if the government reduces
its stake in the state-owned refiner to raise money for social
spending and to narrow its budget deficit.  
 A price of 450 rupees ($9.78) apiece would be a good level
for fresh issuance, Chairman  Brij Mohan Bansal  said by telephone
today. That’s about 23 percent higher than today’s closing price.
The company hasn’t heard from the government on a plan to sell
shares, Bansal said.  
 The federal government plans to sell shares in Indian Oil
and  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  in the current financial year, the
Indian Express reported today. Indian Oil, the biggest state-
owned refiner, posted its first loss in seven quarters in the
three months ended June after failing to get compensation for
selling fuels below cost.  
 “Investors will be looking at government policy on
compensation for fuel sales -- that’s the key,” said  Saeed Jaffery , a Mumbai-based analyst at Ambit Capital Pvt., who has a
“hold” recommendation on the stock. “At this moment, there is
a lot of uncertainty on earnings.”  
 Indian Oil posted an unexpected first-quarter loss of 33.9
billion rupees, while sales increased 23 percent to 712.8
billion rupees. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s decision in June
to free gasoline prices from state control and increase prices
of diesel, cooking gas and kerosene may help improve the
profitability of state refiners.  
 Investor Appetite  
 “The appetite for shares is pretty good at the moment,”
Bansal said. “After the government freed fuel prices, the
reform process has started and we would like to take advantage
of that.”  
 Indian Oil  gained  2.3 percent, the most since Jun 30, to
367 rupees in Mumbai trading, compared with a 0.2 percent
decline in the benchmark  Sensitive Index . The shares have
advanced 20 percent this year.  
 India may raise 200 billion rupees by selling shares in
ONGC and Indian Oil, the Indian Express said, citing
unidentified people. The government plans to sell 5 percent in
ONGC and 10 percent in Indian Oil, according to the report.  
 ONGC hasn’t heard anything from the government on a planned
share-sale in the explorer, Chairman and Managing Director  R.S. Sharma  said by telephone today.  
 Asset Sales  
 Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  is seeking to raise a
record 400 billion rupees from asset sales in the year ending
March 31 to help pay for the biggest budget deficit reduction in
19 years. India plans to sell shares in one state-run company
almost every month, Singh’s administration said in February.  
 The government may sell a stake in Indian Oil by March 31,
Sidhartha Pradhan, joint secretary in the department of
disinvestment, said April 27.  
 Indian Oil plans to spend 140 billion rupees to build
refineries and chemical plants this financial year and may raise
money to fund part of that spending, Bansal said July 24. The
refiner may also buy stakes in oil fields in Africa to feed its
plants at home, he said at the time.  
 Indian Oil and its unit operate refineries with a combined
annual capacity of 60.2 million metric tons, or 1.2 million
barrels a day.  
 Indian companies have raised 660 billion rupees from share
sales in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, putting
the market on course to exceed 2008’s record 782 billion rupees.
The government plans to sell shares in  Coal India Ltd. , the
world’s biggest producer, and  Steel Authority of India Ltd. 
later this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        