-- Indonesia-Linked Structured Note Sales Climb to Fastest Pace in Five Years
-- Sarfraz Thind
-- 2010-08-06T14:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/indonesia-linked-structured-note-sales-climb-to-fastest-pace-in-five-years.html

          
          
             Banks are selling structured notes
tied to rupiah-denominated Indonesian government bonds at the
fastest pace in at least five years as foreign buyers use the
securities to avoid having to set up local-currency accounts.  
 About 11.1 trillion rupiah ($1.2 billion) of the so-called
access notes were sold in the first seven months of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s more than any
12-month period since Bloomberg began collating the data in 2005
and compares with 4.65 trillion rupiah last year.  
 Access notes allow investors to speculate on local-currency
government debt without having to set up an onshore account and
are sold by banks that can buy the bonds. Indonesian notes are
the best-performing government debt sold by Asia’s 10 largest
economies excluding Japan this year, handing investors a 16.8
percent return, according to HSBC Holdings Plc data.  
 “People are bullish on the fundamentals of the country,”
said  Qian Qin , head of emerging-market structuring at Barclays
Capital in Hong Kong. “Indonesia has a high growth rate, its
political system is more stable than it was” and returns are
“quite high compared to other Asian countries.”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. sold 31 of the 58 issues of Indonesia
access notes this year, totaling 5.8 trillion rupiah, Bloomberg
data show. Barclays Capital sold 21 issues with a total value of
3.2 trillion rupiah.  
 One three-year access note linked to Indonesian debt,
issued by  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  on July 30, has a yield of about
6 percent, Bloomberg data show.  
 JPMorgan Chase also issued a Sri Lanka rupee debt-linked
three-year note this week, raising 340 million rupees ($3
million). The note pays a fixed coupon of 8.5 percent.  
 The security is the fourth access note linked to Sri Lankan
debt, all of which have been sold by JPMorgan Chase, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank has issued 2.5 billion
Sri Lankan rupees of these notes in the last two years, the
first in September 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        