-- Boeing Wins $1.2 Billion Satellite Order From Maritime Provider Inmarsat
-- Chiara Remondini
-- 2010-08-06T17:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/inmarsat-says-first-half-profit-jumped-places-1-2-billion-boeing-order.html

          
          
             Inmarsat Plc , the biggest provider of
satellite services to the maritime industry, posted a 56 percent
increase in first-half profit and placed a $1.2 billion order
with  Boeing Co.  for three satellites.  
 Profit before tax rose to $151.8 million from $97 million a
year earlier, the London-based company said in a statement
today. Revenue climbed 12 percent to $570.7 million. Inmarsat
proposed an interim  dividend  of 14 cents, up 10 percent and said
it was “confident” about sustaining 10 percent dividend growth
for from 2010 to 2012.  
 “Our first-half performance continues to show the
profitable growth in the markets we serve,” Chief Executive
Officer  Andrew Sukawaty  said in the statement. “We are well-
positioned to deliver our growth objectives for the year.”  
 Inmarsat is benefitting from demand for data services from
commercial and government customers. It has expanded broadband
to all the countries it serves and offers voice services via
handheld satellite phones.  
 Maritime revenue gained less than 1 percent to $177.7
million as revenue growth was restrained by “the challenging
economic climate in shipping” in the first six months, the
company said. The three months through June still represented a
“record quarter” for maritime sales, Sukawaty said in a
telephone interview today.  
 Inmarsat  gained 28.5 pence, or 4 percent, to 741.5 pence at
4:35 p.m. local time on the London Stock Exchange. The shares
have gained 7.2 percent this year.  
 “We remain confident the future will be a good one for our
maritime business,” the CEO said.  
 Global Broadband  
 Sales at the aeronautical and land mobile businesses gained
40 percent and 14 percent respectively. Voice services declined
while data business increased as clients substituted e-mails for
phone calls, the CEO said.  
 The new Ka-band satellites Inmarsat is purchasing from
Boeing, expected to start operations in 2014, will support
Inmarsat’s Global Express high-speed mobile broadband services.
 Inmarsat  is targeting $500 million annual revenue from Ka-band
offerings, which have frequencies from about 18 gigahertz to
about 21 gigahertz, five years after the start of the services.  
 “We will be the first operator to offer global mobile
broadband coverage,” the CEO said. The company will have
“unparalleled speeds and bandwidth to customers in remote
locations around the world.”  
 Boeing Buys Capacity  
 Under a separate arrangement, Boeing has agreed to become a
distribution partner for both  Inmarsat ’s Ka- and L-band
services, which have frequencies of about 2 gigahertz or less.
Boeing has pre-committed to capacity purchases representing more
than 10 percent of Inmarsat’s target Ka-band revenue in the
first five years after global service launch.  
 Under the distribution arrangement, Boeing will supply Ka-
band satellite frequencies to the U.S. military,  Craig Cooning ,
the Chicago-based company’s vice president and general manager
for space and intelligence systems, said on a conference call
today. The U.S. Defense Department relies on commercial
satellite services for 80 percent of its needs, Cooning said.  
 The Pentagon’s demand for commercial satellite services may
increase as much as 300 percent from current levels by 2020,
Sukawaty said.  
 Inmarsat  estimates that the total cost of Inmarsat-5 and
Global Xpress will be $1.2 billion over 4.5 years, incorporating
the fixed cost of the satellites, as well as the cost of
additional ground network infrastructure, product development,
launch services and insurance.  
 Inmarsat aims to fill the capacity of the new satellites
with traffic from defense, maritime, air, oil and gas clients.
The company will focus on government and business customers as
it doesn’t plan to tap the consumer market, the CEO said.  
 U.S. Ex-Im Bank  
 Inmarsat expects a “substantial part of the funding” to
come from the U.S. Export-Import Bank, which helps finance the
sale of U.S. goods and services internationally, Chief Financial
Officer  Rick Medlock  said in an interview. The bank may provide
about $500 million of debt “at very good conditions,” he said.  
 Inmarsat will also fund the investment with its balance
sheet as the company predicts it will “keep generating lots of
cash” in coming years, the CFO said. Medlock ruled out selling
new shares to raise funds.  
 The company revised its capital expenditure forecast for
2010 to $240 million to $250 million.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        