-- Italian Economy Expanded in Second Quarter as Recovery Gathers Strength
-- Jeffrey Donovan
-- 2010-08-06T11:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/italian-economy-expanded-in-second-quarter-as-recovery-gathered-strength.html

          
          
             Italy’s economy expanded for a second
quarter in the three months through June, a sign that the
country’s recovery from its worst recession in six decades is
gathering strength.  
 Gross domestic product  climbed 0.4 percent from the first
quarter when it rose by the same margin, Rome-based statistics
institute Istat said in a preliminary report today. That matched
economists’ forecasts, according to the median of 16 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey. The economy  expanded  1.1 percent
from a year earlier.  
 Italy’s economy returned to growth in the three months
through September 2009 after contracting for five quarters, only
to shrink again before resuming expansion this year. Adding to
recovery signs, Italian business confidence rose to the highest
in more than two years in July as a drop in the euro against the
dollar helped make  Fiat SpA  cars and  Luxottica Group SpA  eyewear
cheaper abroad.  
 Today’s report, which did not include a breakdown of data,
“confirms that the recovery is ongoing,” said  Laura Cavallaro ,
an economist at Aletti Gestielle in Milan. “The key drivers of
the expansion most likely come from investments, reflecting the
good performance of manufacturing in recent months, and from
exports, thanks to the revival of global trade and the euro’s
depreciation.”  
 Output Advances  
 Italian  industrial production  climbed 0.6 percent in June
from the previous month and 8.1 percent from a year ago, Istat
said in a separate report today. Economists forecast June output
to rise 0.7 percent, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Manufacturing
growth  in Italy also accelerated in July while  consumers  grew
more optimistic.  
 “Industrial activity gained some strength in the first
half of the year and it is still in catching-up mode” amid a
buildup of inventories, said  Annalisa Piazza , an economist at
Newedge Group in London.  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday that Europe is recovering faster than forecast and
money markets are improving. European confidence in the  economic
outlook  rose to the highest in more than two years in July and
German  unemployment  declined for a 13th month as exports
sustained a recovery in the 16-member euro region.  
 Profits Rise  
 Luxottica said last month that net income climbed 30
percent in the second quarter while Fiat reported its first
profit in three quarters in the period. Both companies said
their earnings were helped by the euro, which has slid 8 percent
against the dollar since the start of the year.  
 Exporters may struggle to maintain their sales growth as
the world recovery loses some momentum. China’s economic
expansion slowed in the second quarter. In the U.S., the world’s
largest economy, consumer spending, pending home sales and
factory orders were all weaker than expected in June.  
 “Domestic demand, especially private consumer spending,
remains the main weakness of the Italian economy,” said  Giada Giani , an economist at Citigroup Global Markets in London.  
 European budget consolidation measures are also clouding
the growth outlook. In Italy, parliament last month approved 25
billion euros ($33 billion) in deficit cuts to bring the
shortfall below the European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP by
2012. The reductions are likely to have a smaller effect on
Italy’s economy than similar measures by other European nations,
Deutsche Bank AG economists said in a report last month.  
 Istat is scheduled to release final GDP data for the second
quarter on Sept. 10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        