-- Liverpool Football Loans May Incur Losses, Taxpayer Wrath, Schechter Says
-- Patricia Kuo
-- 2010-08-06T12:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/liverpool-football-loans-may-pose-losses-taxpayer-wrath-schechter-says.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
should offload loans to debt-ridden Liverpool Football
Club as they may create losses for the government-owned bank and
draw criticism from taxpayers, a banker said.  
 “It was a bad loan from the start and it’s been
restructured several times,” said  Stephen Schechter , founder
and chief executive officer at Schechter & Co. in London, who
has helped teams including Newcastle, Southampton and Germany’s
Schalke raise money. “It’s a time bomb for RBS.”  
 The club’s American owners  George Gillett  and  Tom Hicks 
have until Oct. 6 to repay its 237 million-pound debt with
Edinburgh-based RBS and Wachovia Corp. Syrian businessman Yahya
Kirdi leads an investor group bidding for the 18-time English
soccer champion. Hong Kong-based entrepreneur Kenny Huang said
on Aug. 4 he’d registered an interest in investing in the club
although he hadn’t made a formal bid.  
 “Without the sale of club, the loans could never be repaid
from operations,” Schechter said. “They are not acting in the
best interest of the taxpayers.”  
 Piers Townsend, a London-based spokesman for RBS, declined
to comment. Jonathon Brill, a London-based spokesman for
Gillett and Hicks, declined to comment.  
 The 18-time English soccer champion may be worth about 350
million pounds, with equity valued at less than 25 million
pounds after deducting all the outstanding debts, Schechter
said. Kop Football (Holdings) Ltd., Liverpool’s parent company,
made a loss of 55 million pounds after paying 40 million pounds
in interest the year ended July 31 2009, filings show.  
 Liverpool has always met the interest payments on its loans
with RBS. In July 2009 the club refinanced 290 million pounds
and paid back 60 million pounds. RBS today posted its first
profit since 2007 after bad-loan provisions fell 31 percent to
2.36 billion pounds. First-half net income was 9 million pounds.  
 Liverpool Chairman  Martin Broughton  said earlier this week
the club has had several expressions of interest.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        