-- Japan Seeking U.S. Wheat, Corn for Feed Use After Russian Exports Banned
-- Ichiro Suzuki
-- 2010-08-06T04:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/japan-seeking-u-s-wheat-corn-for-feed-use-after-russian-exports-banned.html

          
          
             Japan, Asia’s second-largest wheat
buyer, is seeking U.S. supplies for livestock feed after Russia
halted exports because of the worst drought in at least 50 years.  
 The country buys Russian wheat and barley for feed makers, 
and imports milling wheat for bread and cookies exclusively from
the U.S., Canada and Australia, Shirara Shiokawa, director at
the grain trade division of the  Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries , said today.  
 Wheat futures in Chicago jumped to a two-year high after
Russia, the third-biggest grower, banned exports of the grain
as well as barley from Aug. 15 to Dec. 31. This will boost
demand for grains from the U.S., the biggest exporter, as Canada
and Europe also brace for reduced production because of adverse
weather, said Charlie Utsunomiya, director at the Tokyo office
of  U.S. Wheat Associates .  
 “Asian buyers have already started switching from Russian
to U.S. grains,” Utsunomiya said today by phone. “The U.S. is
the last reliable source of supply in case of emergency.”  
 Japan imported 58,197 metric tons of feed barley from
Russia last year, or 4.2 percent of its total purchases,
according to  data  from the Ministry of Finance. Japan also
imported 1,463 tons of Russian feed wheat in 2009, less than 1
percent of total purchases.  
 Impact Limited  
 Russia’s export ban will have a limited impact on Japan as
its volume of shipments was far smaller than supplies from other
countries, Utsunomiya said. The Asian country imported 10.6
million tons of corn for feed use from the U.S. last year, or 96
percent of its total purchases.  
 Wheat for December delivery rose as much as 6.5 percent to
$8.68 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, taking gains to 25
percent this week. It extended a rally on speculation that other
countries may follow Russia’s export ban.  
 Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said yesterday that
the ban is “appropriate” to contain domestic prices that
gained 19 percent last week, after drought and record heat
forced the government to declare a state of emergency in 28
crop-producing regions. He proposed that Kazakhstan and Belarus,
Russia’s partners in a customs union, join the ban.  
 Japan will “carefully watch the movements” of the grain
market, Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku  told reporters
today. The government controls overseas purchases and domestic
sales of wheat to stabilize supplies.  
 The agriculture ministry holds import tenders regularly for
milling wheat to be sold to Japan’s 96 flour millers. It will
make purchases “with due consideration” to the market
conditions, Shiokawa at the grain trade division said.  
 The ministry canceled plans to purchase 70,000 tons of U.S.
milling wheat on Feb. 27, 2008, when Chicago wheat futures
surged to a record $13.495 a bushel.  
 Yesterday it bought 124,469 tons of U.S. milling wheat in a
regular tender, the lowest amount in five months.  
 The smaller purchase may be a reaction from some of the
Japanese millers to soaring prices, or a reflection of weaker
demand at home, Masaaki Kadota, executive director at Japan’s
Flour Millers Association, said by phone yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        