-- 20-Year Government Bonds Climb for Second Week on Signs of Slowing Growth
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-08-06T22:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/japan-20-year-bonds-rise-for-second-week-on-signs-of-slow-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Japan’s 20-year  bonds  gained for a
second week as signs of a global economic slowdown boosted
demand for the safety of government debt.  
 Twenty-year yields dropped to the lowest level since
September 2003 after U.S. reports on consumer spending, home
sales and factory orders signaled the world’s largest economy is
losing momentum. Bonds also rallied as the yen’s gain to an
eight-month high threatened to accelerate deflation. Ten-year
bonds ended the week unchanged after yields dropped below 1
percent for the first time since 2003.  
 “Expectations are growing that the global economy will
slow,” said  Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at
Norinchukin Research Institute Ltd. “I don’t think bonds will
tumble anytime soon, but investors must be wondering what to do
with securities with such low coupons.”  
 The  yield  on the 1.8 percent bond due June 2030 fell three
basis points to 1.71 percent this week at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. Thirty-year yields
dropped 4.5 basis points to 1.73 percent.  
 Benchmark 10-year yields closed at 1.055 percent, while
bond futures for September delivery rose 0.03 to 141.87 at the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. Ten-year yields dropped to 0.995 percent
on Aug. 4, the lowest in seven years.  
 Investors submitted bids for 4.18 times the 2.2 trillion
yen ($25.6 billion) of 10-year bonds the Ministry of Finance
sold on Aug. 3, the strongest demand since February 2005.  
 Further Gains  
 “Bonds will likely continue to edge up on the assumption
that the macroeconomic environment will not be so positive,”
said  Akito Fukunaga , chief rate strategist in Tokyo at Royal
Bank of Scotland. “Yields will probably decline to as low as
0.8 percent over the next several months.”  
 Reports on July 30 showed Japan’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly rose for a fourth month and industrial production
fell the most in a year. The nation’s economic growth slowed to
an annual 2.1 percent pace in the second quarter from the first
quarter’s 5 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey before the
Aug. 16 report.  
 Investors expect consumer prices to drop an average 1.1
percent per year over the next five years, according to Japanese
breakeven rates, or the yield differential between conventional
and inflation-protected bonds.  
 “We don’t expect a double-dip recession although the bond
market has priced in prolonged deflation and the worsening of
the economy,” said  Koichi Kurose , chief strategist at Tokyo-
based Resona Bank Ltd., which manages about $57 billion. “Any
economic recovery isn’t usually straightforward.”  
 Technical Indicator  
 The drop in Japan’s 10-year yields on Aug. 4 pushed the 14-
day relative strength index below the level of 30, suggesting
the securities were poised to change direction.  
 “Ten-year yields are too low, given that the economy is
mildly recovering,” said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist
in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc., a unit of Japan’s
third-largest lender by assets. Yields are likely to rise to
1.60 percent by the end of this year, he said.  
 Japan’s broadest indicator of economic health was little
changed in June. The coincident index, a composite of 11
indicators including factory production and retail sales, rose
to 101.3 from 101.2 in the previous month, a Cabinet Office
report showed yesterday. The leading index, a composite of 12
indicators including stock prices and consumer confidence, rose
to 98.9 in June, the report also showed.  
 U.S. Data  
 Japan’s long-term bonds also advanced after an Aug. 5
report showed U.S. initial jobless claims rose 19,000 in the
week ended July 31, fueling speculation the Fed will discuss
stimulus measures at its Aug. 10 policy meeting.  
 “Treasury yields may fall more as the Fed keeps monetary
easing for a longer time,” said  Satoshi Yamada , who helps
oversee $110 billion as manager of fixed-income trading at
Okasan Asset Management in Tokyo. “A drop in U.S. yields will
weigh on Japan’s yields as well.”  
 The yield on Japan’s 10-year bonds is 1.86 percentage
points below that of similar-maturity Treasuries, compared with
an average of 2.17 points over the past 12 months.  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 21 the economic
outlook remains “unusually uncertain” and the central bank
remains “prepared to take further policy actions as needed.”  
 The yen rose as high as 85.33 per dollar on Aug. 4, the
strongest since Nov. 27. A stronger yen reduces the value of
overseas sales at Japanese companies when repatriated.  
 The U.S. was Japan’s second-biggest export market by the
value of products shipped during the first half of 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        