-- KKR, Bain Sell NXP in Initial Offering at 46% Discount to LBO
-- Lee Spears
-- 2010-08-06T20:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/kkr-bain-sell-nxp-semiconductors-in-initial-offer-at-46-discount-to-lbo.html

          
          
             KKR & Co.  and Bain Capital LLC sold
shares of NXP Semiconductors NV in a $476 million initial public
offering for 46 percent less than they paid to take control of
the company at the height of the credit-market bubble.  
 NXP , acquired by KKR, Bain and three other private equity
firms in a  $9.4 billion  leveraged buyout, sold 34 million shares
at $14 each yesterday, the company said in a statement. Owners
sought $18 to $21 per share in the IPO after paying an average
of $26.07 a share for the Eindhoven, Netherlands-based unit of
Royal Philips Electronics NV in 2006. The stock was  unchanged  at
$14 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading today.  
 Buyout firms are selling some of their investments at a
discount three years after debt-fueled acquisitions peaked just
as credit markets started to freeze. NXP, which makes
semiconductors used in everything from radars to hearing aids
and pachinko machines, reported combined losses of $5.5 billion
since the takeover. KKR, the leveraged buyout firm founded by
billionaire investors  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , said in
May its stake in NXP was worth 40 cents on the dollar.  
 “This is an investment that went bad,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1 billion as chief investment
strategist at YCMNet Advisors in Walnut Creek, California.
“They bought at the peak. The private equity investors are
trying to cut their losses.”  
 Underwriters, Lawyers  
 Credit Suisse Group AG  of Zurich and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley in New York led the sale, while NXP
turned to Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP in London for legal
advice.  
 NXP, which offered a 14 percent stake, was the
semiconductor unit of  Philips . The world’s biggest lighting
company sold an 80.1 percent stake to KKR, Bain, Silver Lake in
Menlo Park, California, Apax Partners LLP of London and
Amsterdam-based AlpInvest Partners NV in September 2006.  
 The firms paid 3.45 billion euros ($4.37 billion), which
valued the company at about $5.46 billion at the time of the
takeover, according to NXP’s  website  and Bloomberg data.  
 The acquisition, which included assumed  debt  of 4 billion
euros, was the biggest LBO in the semiconductor industry’s
history at the time and completed less than a year before credit
markets seized up in August 2007. Amsterdam-based Philips held
19.9 percent of NXP, which reported a deficit of $161 million
for 2009, its third year of losses since the LBO.  
 The Dealmakers  
 NXP had $5.28 billion of total debt at the end of 2009,
according to the prospectus. The company’s 9.5 percent notes due
in October 2015 rose 0.5 cent to 99.5 cents on the dollar today,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 KKR , the New York firm founded in 1976, and Boston-based
Bain, started by former U.S. presidential candidate and
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  in 1984, together oversee
$122 billion and have led some of the  largest buyouts .  
 Private equity firms take controlling stakes in companies
and use borrowed money to finance most of the acquisition. They
aim to make money for their investors usually by replacing
management, selling off unprofitable assets, extracting
dividends and then cashing out at a higher price.  
 The firms earn money for themselves through annual fees,
usually about 2 percent of assets under management, and by
taking a share of profits, about 20 percent.  
 Credit Crisis  
 Private equity funds spent $2 trillion from 2003 to 2007 on
leveraged buyouts, before the credit crisis and the collapse of
New York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 brought
deal-making to a halt. LBO firms completed $12.8 billion in U.S.
buyouts last year, the smallest amount since at least 1995,
according to data compiled by Standard & Poor’s.  
 They are now turning to initial offerings to pare debt and
reduce their stakes, a year after buyout firms returned less
money to their clients than any time in the past decade, data
compiled by London-based Preqin Ltd. show. Private equity-backed
companies accounted for at least 50 percent of the IPOs filed
with the SEC last quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  
 While KKR and Bain sold a portion of NXP at a discount to
the value of their initial investment, the IPO price of $14 per
share was still more than the chipmaker’s “fair value.”  
 KKR said in its quarterly financial statement released in
May that its stake in NXP was worth 60 percent less than its
original purchase price.  
 ‘Solid Foundation’  
 “The key for us is to be able to set a solid foundation
moving forward,”  Rick Clemmer , NXP’s chief executive officer,
said in a conference call today. “Frankly, in some events,
maybe a lower price gives us a stronger opportunity to be able
to increase the value for our new shareholders.”  
 At the original midpoint offer price of $19.50 each, NXP’s
debt burden after the IPO would have exceeded its estimated 2010
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
by more than seven times, data compiled by Bloomberg and London-
based Independent International Investment Research Plc show.  
 That was greater than all the  publicly traded companies 
that NXP lists in its SEC filings as direct competitors, none of
which had a debt-to-Ebitda ratio of more than 3.2 times.  
 Relative Returns  
 Texas Instruments Inc.  of Dallas, the biggest maker of
analog chips that go into everything from barcode scanners to
aircraft flight-control systems, has no debt, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. National Semiconductor Corp. of Santa Clara,
California, STMicroelectronics NV in Geneva and Phoenix-based  ON
Semiconductor Corp.  all had ratios of less than 2.1 times.  
 While the IPO trimmed the private equity investors’ paper
losses on NXP to 46 percent since the acquisition, shares of its
publicly traded competitors have fallen less than 14 percent on
average in the same period. Including dividends, the average
competitor’s decline narrowed to 9.6 percent. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  slid 8.4 percent after payouts.  
 KKR and Bain also took NXP public in the worst market for
U.S. private equity IPOs in at least a decade.  
 The 18  initial offerings  backed by LBO firms have lost 3.4
percent of their value in the first month of trading this year
through yesterday, while all other IPOs have posted an average
gain of 5.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     KKR, the New York buyout firm founded by billionaire investors Henry Kravis, seen here, and George Roberts, said in May its stake in NXP was worth 40 cents on the dollar. Photographer: Rick Maiman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
