-- Kraft's Clarke Says Integrating Cadbury Is Focus for Europe
-- Clementine Fletcher
-- 2010-08-06T07:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/kraft-s-clarke-says-integrating-cadbury-purchase-is-european-growth-focus.html

          
          
             Kraft Foods Inc.  plans to focus on
integrating the acquisitions of Cadbury Plc and  Groupe Danone
SA ’s LU unit rather than make more purchases to sustain growth
in Europe, where revenue advanced in the past quarter.  
 “I don’t think we need at this time to buy other
businesses to grow,”  Mike Clarke , Kraft’s European president,
said in an interview. “I will continue to accelerate what we’ve
got already. I couldn’t comment on whether we would or would not
look at any acquisition, but my first comment is the one you
should listen to. We’ve got enough on our plate.”  
 Kraft’s so-called combined organic net revenue rose 3.9
percent in the region in the second quarter as it sold more
Jacobs coffee and Philadelphia cheese while North American
revenue dropped 1.3 percent on that basis, the Northfield,
Illinois-based company said yesterday. Unilever, the maker of
Ben & Jerry’s ice cream, posted a 2.2 percent decline in
underlying sales growth in the area.  
 Kraft  acquired  Cadbury, the maker of Dairy Milk chocolate,
this year after a five-month takeover battle and bought Danone’s
LU cookie business in 2007. Integrating Cadbury, which made the
company the world’s biggest confectioner, will take a “lot of
effort,” Clarke said. The process is “going very well” and
will continue until 2011, he said.  
 Kraft  has “definitely been hurt” by a shift in public
opinion after the company drew criticism from a panel of U.K.
lawmakers over its decision to close a Cadbury factory it had
previously pledged to keep open.  
 ‘Brand Equity’  
 “We’ve lost brand equity from a Kraft point of view,”
Clarke said. Consumers are continuing to buy Kraft products and
like the company’s brands, he said. “It’s unfortunate there
hasn’t been that halo effect upwards on the love from the brands
to the company.”  
 There won’t be any further closures in the U.K. for at
least two years, Clarke said. While the company may decide in
the future to merge facilities or change its production
infrastructure, it would more likely be on the continent than in
the U.K., he added.  
 Kraft  wants to improve profitability in Europe amid rising
commodity prices, and competition from  Nestle SA  and Unilever.
Sales are growing in all countries excluding Greece, where
revenue fell about 8 percent in the second quarter, Clarke said.
Revenue swelled 34 percent in Europe, which provides about 25
percent of Kraft’s total, compared with 6.3 percent in North
America, the source of half of the company’s sales.  
 Kraft isn’t looking to divest any more units after selling
Cadbury’s Romanian and Polish businesses to fulfill requirements
from European regulators, Clarke said.  
 “To start offloading small businesses takes a lot of time
and a lot of effort, and I don’t want to distract the
organization,” he said.  
 The executive declined to comment on whether Kraft would
bid for United Biscuits Holdings Ltd. The Financial Times
reported last month that Blackstone Group LP and PAI Partners
Holdings Inc. may sell the snackmaker for about 2 billion pounds
($3.2 billion).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kraft's Clarke says integrating Cadbury focus for Europe  
                       
                         
                           Frantzesco Kangaris/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chocolate flows from a pipe on the production line at the Cadbury Plc factory in Birmingham. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chocolate flows from a pipe on the production line at the Cadbury Plc factory in Birmingham. Photographer: Frantzesco Kangaris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
