-- Accused New York Subway Bomb Plotter Bids to Suppress Statements to Agents
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-12-07T21:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/n-y-subway-bomb-figure-medunjanin-pleads-not-guilty-to-revised-indictment.html
A New York man accused in a foiled
plot to conduct suicide bombings on the city’s subways last year
sought to suppress statements he made to federal agents after
his arrest.  Adis Medunjanin , in filings yesterday in federal court in
Brooklyn, said he never waived his right to a lawyer and
authorities knew he was represented by New York-based  Robert
Gottlieb . The court filings don’t say what Medunjanin told
authorities about the case. Medunjanin, who was arrested in
January, pleaded not guilty Aug. 6 to charges in a new
indictment that added five alleged members of al-Qaeda,
including Adnan Shukrijumah, one of its top operatives.  An officer “told me that what I had done was serious and
it was in my family’s best interest to waive my right to counsel
and to remain silent,” Medunjanin said in a court filing. “He
said, ‘If you want your family to be happy you need to sign’ the
waiver form.”  Shukrijumah recruited Medunjanin and two other New York
men,  Najibullah Zazi  and  Zarein Ahmedzay , for the plot,
according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney  Loretta Lynch  in Brooklyn. The indictment charges six people, one whose
name has been blacked out. Zazi pleaded guilty in February, and
Ahmedzay did so in April.  Gottlieb and  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch,
declined to comment on the motion to suppress the statements.
U.S. District Judge  Raymond Dearie , presiding over the case, has
scheduled a hearing on the question for Jan. 25 and 26.  Subway Lines  Prosecutors said the men plotted an attack on Manhattan
subway lines for the days around Sept. 15, 2009, near the
anniversary of the destruction of the World Trade Center by
terrorists on Sept. 11, 2001.  Medunjanin, who lived in the Flushing area of Queens, New
York, has been in custody since his arrest in January.  He is charged with nine counts including attempt to commit
an act of terrorism, conspiracy to use a weapon of mass
destruction, providing support to a terrorist organization and
receiving military training from a terrorist group, al-Qaeda.  The U.S. also added a charge that Medunjanin sought to
conduct a “suicide attack” by trying to crash his car as
federal authorities chased him on the Whitestone Expressway in
Queens.  Medunjanin was held and questioned by federal authorities
for two days without access to an attorney, Gottlieb has said.  In the filings yesterday, Medunjanin said that after his
arrest, he was given a form to sign and he checked that he did
want to speak with Gottlieb, not that he didn’t want to speak
with him.  Zazi’s Father  He said he viewed the officer’s statement as a threat that
if he didn’t cooperate, his family would be prosecuted. He said
he knew that Zazi’s father had been arrested for obstruction of
justice in connection to the case.  When pleading guilty, Ahmedzay said he consulted with three
al-Qaeda leaders in Pakistan in 2008 and that terrorist leaders
at first asked him to attack “critical, well-known structures”
in New York. The plan was for an attack during the Muslim holy
month of Ramadan, he said.  He and his co-defendants decided to change the plan and
attack the subway system, based on the amount of explosives Zazi
decided they could produce by Ramadan, he said.  Shukrijumah, of Saudi Arabia, was described by prosecutors
as one of the “leaders of al-Qaeda’s external operations
program.” He has been sought by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation for years and remains at large.  The case is U.S. v. Medunjanin, 1:10-cr-00019, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  