-- NBER's Hall Says `Faltering' Jobs Don't Imply a `Second Dip'
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-08-06T16:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/nber-s-hall-says-faltering-jobs-data-don-t-imply-another-u-s-recession.html

          
          
             The U.S. labor market’s “weak and
faltering” recovery doesn’t imply the economy is sliding back
into a recession and may instead reflect productivity gains,
said Stanford University economist  Robert Hall , who heads the
National Bureau of Economic Research’s business-cycle dating
committee.  
 “So far, there has been no second dip,” Hall, whose group
is tasked with marking the start and end of recessions, said in
an interview.  
 Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by
71,000 last month, less than forecast, after a June gain of
31,000 that was smaller than previously reported, the Labor
Department said today. Economists projected a 90,000 July
increase, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Overall employment fell 131,000 and unemployment held at
9.5 percent.  
 Higher productivity, driven by increased business spending,
may help explain how economic output has risen while jobs have
been stagnant, said Hall and a second committee member, Harvard
University economist  James Stock , who commented in a separate
interview.  
 “The way we judge the performance of the economy should be
its success in growing employment,” Hall said by e-mail. “By
this standard, the recovery is weak and faltering.”  
 The NBER committee in April issued a statement that it was
too soon to declare the recession that began in December 2007
over, though some committee members including Hall and  Jeffrey Frankel , also of Harvard, have said it’s clear the contraction
has probably ended.  
 Frustrating Reports  
 “It is frustrating and disappointing that employment
growth hasn’t been stronger,” Stock said. “Eventually our
initially strong, now moderate, output growth must sooner or
later bring along employment growth.”  
 Capital spending that was deferred during the recession is
now boosting productivity, and in the short run, that is
eliminating the need for extra workers on the factory floor or
offices.  
 “The disparity between modest output growth and close to
zero employment growth is the result, by definition, of
productivity growth,” Hall said.  
 Stock said there are indications that more jobs may be
coming soon.  
 “Firms deferred investment for a long time and that is
consistent with the capital expenditure boom,” Stock said. “By
the same token, average weekly hours are now almost at pre-
recession levels which is another indication that employment
should be picking up in the near future.  
 “So these considerations make me remain optimistic that
output growth will be continued and will start to spill over
into employment growth.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Robert Hall  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Robert Hall, head of the National Bureau of Economic Research's Business Cycle Dating Committee, poses for a portrait in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Robert Hall, head of the National Bureau of Economic Research's Business Cycle Dating Committee, poses for a portrait in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
