-- New York Transit Authority Sued Over Ads Opposing Mosque Near Trade Center
-- Thom Weidlich
-- 2010-08-06T22:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/new-york-transit-authority-sued-over-ads-opposing-mosque-near-trade-center.html

          
          
             A group opposed to the building of a
mosque at the site of the World Trade Center sued the
Metropolitan Transit Authority in New York saying the agency
forced it to make too many changes on bus advertisements it
wants to run.  
 “If plaintiffs did not edit, dilute and change their
message per defendants’ demands, then the advertisement would
not be allowed to run,” according to the complaint filed by the
American Freedom Defense Initiative in federal court in New York
today.  
 Plans to build an Islamic cultural center near the World
Trade Center site moved forward after New York City’s  Landmarks
Preservation Commission  voted Aug. 3 to allow the demolition of
a building that would be replaced by the mosque.  
 The bus ad originally included a picture of the Twin Towers
in flames with a plane headed toward them and a tower with a
crescent moon and star, symbols of Islam, according to the
complaint. Arrows connect text reading “WTC Jihad Attack” and
“WTC Mega Mosque.”  
 “No decision has been made on this ad,” Aaron Donovan, a
spokesman for the MTA, said in an e-mailed statement. “Our
advertising contractor just showed the proposed ad to us this
afternoon.”  
 On July 28, the group was told the ad couldn’t run because
of the plane, the group said. After it removed the plane it was
told the connection between the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and
the mosque were objectionable, according to the complaint.  
 Yesterday, the Freedom Defense Initiative was told the
flames had to be removed. It did that and added back the plane,
which it removed again after it was told to do so. After that,
it sued, according to the complaint. It seeks a declaration that
the restrictions violate its free-speech rights and money
damages.  
 The case is American Freedom Defense Initiative v.
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, 10-cv-5947, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        