-- No Gain From Rain for Indonesia Coal as China Demand Cools: Energy Markets
-- Yoga Rusmana
-- 2010-08-06T07:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/no-gain-from-rain-for-indonesia-coal-as-china-demand-cools-energy-markets.html

          
          
             The heaviest rainfall in seven years
in Indonesia, the world’s second-biggest coal exporter, is
failing to stoke price gains as Chinese demand cools.  
 The price of  coal  leaving the port of Newcastle in
Australia, the benchmark gauge for Asia, has dropped 1.3 percent
this year, according to IHS McCloskey, a Petersfield, U.K.-based
provider of coal data. Last year, it rose 8.5 percent.  
 Indonesian coal mining companies said they may struggle to
meet annual targets as the Jakarta-based Meteorology,
Climatology and Geophysics Agency forecasts 11.8 inches (300
millimeters) of rain may fall this month in Kalimantan, the
largest producing region. That hasn’t helped prices as China’s
imports may slide 27 percent to the lowest level in more than a
year in the second half, a Bloomberg News survey showed Aug. 3.  
 “China’s thermal imports have actually declined in recent
months, as its domestic production has lifted,” said  Tom Price ,
a commodity analyst at UBS AG in Sydney. “A stable seaborne
price suggests that this bearish event is being almost perfectly
offset by the decline in supply from Indonesia.”  
 Coal more than doubled to a record high of $192.50 a metric
ton in the first seven months of 2008 partly as flooding in
Australia’s Queensland state curbed supplies. China’s coal
 imports  in 2007 were 53 percent higher than those in 2005, while
exports dropped 13 percent, according to customs data.  
 Newcastle  prices  dropped 1 percent to $95.20 a ton in the
seven days ended July 30, compared with $96.45 in the first week
in January, IHS McCloskey data showed. Coal hasn’t fluctuated
more than $15 a ton this year, compared with $26 in 2009, $117
in 2008 and $41 in 2007.  
 China Cutback  
 China’s coal  purchases  are falling as Premier  Wen Jiabao 
implements measures to cut pollution from power plants that run
on fossil fuels while putting curbs on bank lending to prevent
economic growth from fanning inflation.  
 Imports may drop to 59.5 million tons, or 9.9 million tons
a month, from 81 million tons in the first six months of the
year, according to Bloomberg’s survey of four analysts and
industry officials. The monthly forecast would be the smallest
level of imports since May last year.  
 PT Adaro Energy, Indonesia’s second-largest coal producer,
said on Aug. 2 it may fail to reach its annual production target
of 45 million tons if the “unprecedented” rainfall continues.  
 PT Bayan Resources , controlled by billionaire  Low Tuck Kwong , said July 27 that its PT Wahana Baratama Mining unit had
notified customers it will miss shipments.  PT Bumi Resources ,
Indonesia’s largest producer, will maintain supplies after
starting the year with “a strategic opening inventory” of more
than 5 million tons,  Dileep Srivastava , a company director, said
yesterday.  
 Mining Flexibility  
 Bumi expects to achieve its 2010 output target of 67
million tons, even though rain in Kalimantan has been
“unusually heavy,” by using the flexibility afforded by having
multiple mines, Srivastava said. If the wet weather abates from
September onwards, production levels may increase, he said.  
 Any shortage of coal from Indonesia can be offset by
supplies from Australia, the world’s biggest exporter of the
fuel, according to  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne.  
 Port Waratah Coal Services, operator of two terminals at
Newcastle, shipped 55.5 million tons in the seven months ended
July 31, according to data on its  website . The terminals can
handle 113 million tons a year. Capacity is being increased to
about 163 million by the end of 2011.  
 “For Japan, China, Korea and Taiwan, Newcastle would
probably be the most logical option to cover cargoes,” Pervan
said. “We are currently in a seasonal lull in terms of coal
demand, so the net impact may not be as apparent as it would be
during peak demand period.”  
 Coal  shipped from Newcastle, the world’s largest export
harbor for the power-station fuel, declined 5.7 percent to 2.1
million tons in the seven days to Aug. 2 compared with the
previous week, according to Newcastle Port Corp.  Eleven vessels 
were outside the harbor, down from 12 a week earlier. Sixty-one
vessels were traveling to the port to load coal.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Wen Jiabao, China's premier  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         China’s coal purchases are falling as Premier Wen Jiabao implements measures to cut pollution from power plants that run on fossil fuels while putting curbs on bank lending to prevent economic growth from fanning inflation. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     China’s coal purchases are falling as Premier Wen Jiabao implements measures to cut pollution from power plants that run on fossil fuels while putting curbs on bank lending to prevent economic growth from fanning inflation. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
