-- Norway Oil Money Boosts Health as Biotechs Dig Up Cancer Cures
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2010-08-06T06:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/norway-oil-money-boosts-health-as-biotechs-unearth-promising-cancer-cures.html

          
          
             Norway, which built its wealth on
salmon and oil, is emerging as a force in biotechnology as
companies around Oslo discover new ways to fight cancer.  
 PCI Biotech Holding ASA , whose product attempts to blast
tumors with a drug charged by light, surged eight-fold on the
Oslo stock exchange in the past year.  Algeta ASA , working on a
way to destroy cancer cells and spare healthy tissue, doubled
over 12 months, while Clavis Pharma ASA, whose experimental
pancreatic cancer treatment won U.S. orphan drug designation in
January, almost tripled. In June, PCI’s share sale lured local
billionaire  Erik Must  and financier  Erik Engebretsen .  
 “We subscribed to the new shares at 40 kroner, and we
wouldn’t do that unless we expected to triple our investment in
three years,” Engebretsen, who runs the Oslo investment fund
Gezina AS, said in a telephone interview. The stock closed at 59
kroner yesterday.  
 Ernst & Young Global Ltd. , which publishes an annual report
on global biotechnology trends, began tracking Norway for the
first time last month after two deals attracted attention to
drug development in the world’s  second-wealthiest nation .  
 Germany’s  Bayer AG  agreed last September to pay Algeta as
much as $800 million for rights to the experimental cancer
treatment Alpharadin. Two months later, U.S.-based Clovis
Oncology Inc. said it would pay Clavis as much as $380 million
for its experimental cancer drug.  
 Fishy Start  
 Helped by government funds from North Sea oil sales, the
number of biotech companies in Norway almost doubled in a
decade, according to the  Norwegian Research Council . Some, like
Clavis, originated in  Norsk Hydro ASA ’s early discoveries about
the health benefits of fish oil.  
 “That’s the way things start in Norway, with fish,” says
Knut Sogner, director of the  Norwegian School of Management ’s
Centre for Business History in Oslo.  
 PCI, the Nordic region’s best performing health-care stock
in the past 12 months, came from the Norwegian Radium Hospital,
northern Europe’s largest cancer center.  
 Kristian Berg, a senior scientist at the hospital’s
 Institute for Cancer Research , was studying light in 1985 when
he noticed it exploded living cells. After researchers elsewhere
discovered the bubbles in which cancer cells envelop and disable
drugs, he sought to harness that effect, he said in an
interview.  
 Tumors Vanish  
 Berg spent the next two decades working on the drug. The
first time it was tested on humans, patients were given a
generic form of chemotherapy and a single dose of the medicine,
Amphinex. In a procedure that took about 10 minutes, the light
triggered a chemical reaction in Amphinex that destroyed the
bubble-like enclosures before the chemotherapy was released.  
 “We didn’t expect any response at all because of the low
dose,” Berg said. Instead, the tumors disappeared in the first
11 patients treated at London’s University College Hospital,
according to  data  released in April. Among the test subjects,
one had cancer of the bone, seven in the head and neck, and
three in the breast.  
 Light-sensitive chemicals, including Axcan Pharma Inc.’s
Photofrin, Dusa Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s Levulan and  QLT Inc. ’s
Visudyne, are already used to combat skin and bladder cancer,
pre-cancerous skin cells and blindness. But the doses needed to
penetrate deep tumors can kill healthy cells.  
 Amphinex is more reactive, so a lower dose coupled with the
same amount of light has a greater effect, according to Berg.  
 ‘Believe in the People’  
 If the promising results are repeated in more advanced
tests, PCI’s therapy may render older drugs more effective,
according to Chief Executive Officer  Per Walday .  
 Erik Must, whose fortune was estimated by Kapital magazine
at 2.8 billion kroner ($470 million) last year, bought PCI
shares in the June stock sale to  increase his stake  to almost 6
percent.  
 “I believe in the technology and I believe in the
people,” Must said in a June interview from the Oslo office of
Fondsavanse AS, the fund through which he holds PCI.  
 Norwegian scientists have led the pack before. In 1907,
Axel Holst and Theodore Frolich proved scurvy resulted from a
lack of vitamin C. Thirty years later,  Nycomed ASA  of Oslo was
among the first to develop contrasting agents so doctors could
see X-rayed images clearly.  
 Last year,  Pronova BioPharma ASA , spun off from Norsk Hydro
like Clavis, became the first company to gain U.S. and European
approval for a heart treatment derived from fish oil.  
 New Approaches  
 Algeta, based in Oslo, may have found what many more
established drugmakers are seeking: a cancer medicine known as a
“first in class.” The compound, Alpharadin, sends out targeted
radioactivity to attack cancer that has spread to the bone
without hurting healthy surrounding tissue.  
 The company estimates the medicine, currently in the last
phase of clinical testing on patients with prostate cancer that
has spread to the bone, may garner annual revenue of as much as
$1.9 billion in the U.S. and Europe. Algeta shares doubled since
Bayer, Germany’s largest drugmaker, agreed to pay as much as
$800 million for rights to the drug.  
 At Oslo-based Clavis, scientists are developing an
experimental cancer treatment to improve on Eli Lilly & Co.’s
chemotherapy drug  Gemzar , which is typically prescribed for
tumors of the pancreas. Clavis’s technology attaches a so-called
lipid tail to the medicine, enabling it to enter the cell
membrane and transport the drug in a more targeted way. The
treatment also is designed to help patients with low levels of a
protein known as hENT1, which transports Gemzar.  
 Oil Money for Drugs  
 Norway’s government concluded in 1999, as it sought
industries to propel economic growth when oil reserves dry up,
that the country wasn’t doing enough to promote research.  
 Oil and gas  made up 22 percent of Norway’s economy last
year, though oil production has dropped 40 percent in a decade.  
 In the past five years, the state-owned Research Council
has provided 207.6 million kroner in funding to 22 health-care
companies, including PCI. State-owned Innovation Norway, which
promotes industrial development, has distributed another 125.8
million kroner in funding and loans to 19 companies.  
 The Oslo Cancer Cluster, a hub of public and private
research set up in 1996 to spur drug development, and the Radium
Hospital, where Berg works, have been recipients of government
grants. The government also introduced tax incentives.  
 PCI has received 25 million kroner of government support
since 2005. “It has been very important in the development of
the company,” CEO Walday said.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net ;
 Meera Bhatia  at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     If the promising results are repeated in more advanced tests, PCI’s therapy may render older drugs more effective, according to PCI CEO Per Walday, seen here. Source: PCI Biotech Holding via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
