-- Obama Stumps for Democrat Seeking His Former Illinois Seat in U.S. Senate
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/obama-stumps-for-democrat-seeking-his-former-illinois-seat-in-u-s-senate.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  told Illinois
Democrats yesterday that Republican victories in November would
mark a reversal for the country, as the president sought to
bolster support for the man seeking his former U.S. Senate seat.  
 “Do we go back to the policies of the past? Or do we keep
this country moving forward,” he said at a downtown Chicago
hotel during an event for  Alexi Giannoulias , an Obama basketball
buddy, Illinois state treasurer and a candidate whose campaign
has struggled amid the failure of his family’s bank.  
 Giannoulias, 34, and his Republican opponent,  Mark Kirk ,
50, have spent much of the campaign debating who is the more
scandalized. The Democrat has dealt with questions about
Broadway Bank, while the Republican has been forced to apologize
for repeatedly exaggerating his biography.  
 In his remarks introducing Obama, Giannoulias said Kirk, a
five-term congressman from Chicago’s northern suburbs, supported
every “budget and economic policy that created this horrifying
recession.”  
 The Republican National Committee called Obama hypocritical
for raising money for a failed banker, after criticizing “fat-
cat bankers” last year in connection with the financial crisis.  
 “As a self-proclaimed champion of increased transparency
and ethical standards, voters across Illinois would expect
President Obama to be more critical of a banker who has ties to
mobsters and has a history of shady loans to convicted felons,”
RNC spokesman Ryan Tronovitch said in a statement.  
 Family Bank  
 Giannoulias worked at the bank from 2002 through 2006 as
a senior loan officer and vice president. Some of the loans
during his tenure that have generated controversy involve a
convicted bookmaker and prostitution-ring promoter, and a family
later accused of having connections to organized crime.  
 Obama called Giannoulias a friend who would be an advocate
for “ordinary” Americans.  
 “I know his character,” he said. “I know how committed
he is to public service for all the right reasons.”  
 Obama’s swing through Chicago was projected to net about
$2.5 million for Democrats, including about $1 million for
Giannoulias.  
 Those at the Giannoulias event were required to pay between
$1,000 and $2,400. Obama later appeared at an event to benefit
the  Democratic National Committee  where admission was a minimum
of $250.  
 ‘Best Opportunity’  
 “You’ve got to understand what’s at stake here, because
the other side does,” Obama told donors at the Chicago Cultural
Center, as he spoke about November’s election. “They see this
as their best opportunity.”  
 Obama’s third fundraising stop of the day, also to benefit
the DNC, was at the home of billionaire  Neil Bluhm , with an
admission price was $30,400 per person. Bluhm, managing
principal of  Walton Street Capital LLC  of Chicago, was a
fundraiser for Obama’s 2008 presidential bid.  
 The amount Obama raised for Giannoulias in a single event
was roughly equal to what the candidate had raised during the
entire quarter that ended June 30. He raised less than half as
much as Kirk during that quarter and had only about one-fourth
as much in the bank.  
 Obama’s visit on behalf of Giannoulias was part of a White
House effort to help his party hold on to majorities in the
House and Senate. A Democratic loss of the Illinois seat would
boost Republican chances of gaining the 10 they need to win
control of the Senate.  
 Fundraising Visits  
 Since June, Giannoulias has had fundraising visits from
Vice President  Joe Biden , U.S. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan ,
Obama senior adviser  David Axelrod , White House Deputy Chief of
Staff  Jim Messina  and 2008 presidential campaign manager  David Plouffe , who is helping the administration in the midterm
campaign.  
 Obama’s fifth trip to Chicago since his inauguration in
January 2009 came as Broadway Bank was in the  headlines  again
this week because of a newly reported 2006 loan to convicted
Illinois influence peddler  Antoin “Tony” Rezko .  
 Giannoulias’s aides monitored developments at a federal
courthouse two blocks from the downtown hotel where Obama spoke,
fearing a verdict in the trial of  Rod Blagojevich  could steal
their news coverage of the presidential visit. The former
Illinois governor stands accused, among other things, of trying
to sell Obama’s old Senate seat to the highest bidder.  
 Control of Senate  
 The race in Illinois to replace Senator  Roland Burris , a
Democrat appointed by Blagojevich, is one of 12 Senate races
rated as tossups by the non-partisan  Cook Political Report ,
based in Washington.  
 According to a  Rasmussen Reports survey  taken July 26,
Giannoulias led Kirk 43 percent to 41 percent. The survey had a
margin of error of plus-or-minus 4 percentage points.  
 The latest wrinkle involving the race has resurrected an
adage that long crystallized Chicago’s reputation for political
corruption: vote early and often.  
 Illinois voters in November will vote twice for that one
elected office. The double voting, prompted by a judge’s ruling
last week, is the result of a lawsuit filed after no special
election was held to fill the seat after Obama left it.  
 The voters will pick a replacement for the remaining two
months of Obama’s original term and someone to begin a six-year
term in January 2011, creating the possibility that Kirk or
Giannoulias could win the shorter term and lose the longer one.  
 While Burris isn’t seeking a full term, the Associated
Press reported yesterday that he plans to challenge the ruling
that would bump him from office in November.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicholas Johnston  in Chicago at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        