-- Obama Said to Consider Easing Educational Travel to Cuba
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-08-06T20:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/obama-said-to-consider-easing-embargo-on-u-s-educational-travel-to-cuba.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  may ease
 travel restrictions  on Cuba, allowing more Americans to visit
the island on educational and cultural trips, said a U.S.
official who declined to be named because he isn’t authorized to
speak on the subject.  
 Obama first loosened travel rules on Cuba last year, making
it easier for Cuban-Americans to visit and send money to
relatives on the Caribbean island in a bid to help “promote the
freer flow of information,” according to a White House
 statement . The official didn’t give additional details on what
the changes would be.  
 Current rules allow Americans to travel to Cuba on
educational and cultural trips if they are students or employees
at qualifying universities and meet a set of additional
requirements, such as doing research toward a graduate degree.
All Cuba travel must be approved by the Treasury Department’s
 Office of Foreign Assets Control . The broader travel ban is
designed to isolate the Castro regime and keep hard currency out
of the country  
 Asked if the administration is considering easing the travel
rules,  Michael Hammer , a spokesman for the White House National
Security Council, said in an e-mail: “We will continue to
pursue policies that advance the U.S. national interest and
support the Cuban people’s desire to freely determine their
country’s future.”  
 Wider Travel Ban  
 A move to allow increased educational travel may encourage
lawmakers to repeal a wider ban forbidding American travel to
Cuba if Obama signals his support for the measure, said Ted
Piccone, a Latin American specialist at the Brookings
Institution, a policy research organization in Washington. Co-
sponsors of bills in both houses of Congress to end the 47-year
ban have said legislation may pass this year.  
 “The Democrats need cover from the White House,” said
Piccone. “If they can’t do it now they’re never going to do
it.”  
 If Obama remains silent on whether he would welcome such
legislation, lawmakers may not be willing to take the political
risk to pass a bill repealing the travel ban, Piccone said.  
 Travel and trade restrictions on Cuba have been adjusted by
nearly every U.S. administration since then-President  Dwight D. Eisenhower  established trade limits in 1960, following  Fidel Castro ’s revolution against the U.S.-backed Batista regime.
Former President  George W. Bush  banned some educational
exchanges not directly related to academic coursework in 2003,
according to a  report  by the Congressional Research Service.  
 Fidel Castro, 83, handed formal power to his brother Raul,
79, in 2008.  
 Global Exchange  
 The move to ease educational travel restrictions would help
groups such as  Global Exchange , a San Francisco-based
organization that arranges trips for Americans to visit
countries including Cuba.  
 Global Exchange took fewer than 400 people to Cuba last
year, compared with the more than 2,000 a year it took before
Bush tightened regulations in 2003, said Pam Montanaro, who runs
the group’s Cuba programs. That’s because few Americans can meet
the requirements enforced by the Treasury Department, she said.  
 “It’s extremely difficult to qualify,” Montanaro said.
“We have a lot of people who call and they just don’t apply.”  
 Cuban Tourism Minister Manuel Marrero said in a March 25
interview that 1 million U.S. tourists may visit the island
annually if the ban on travel is ended.  
 Dorgan’s Bill  
 The House Agriculture Committee approved a bill in June
that would end the travel ban and simplify rules governing cash
transactions with Cuba.  
 Senator  Byron Dorgan , a North Dakota Democrat, said in an
interview today that a bill he is co-sponsoring with Wyoming
Republican  Mike Enzi  to repeal the travel ban may move to the
Senate floor by next month or after the November elections.  
 “We’re confident we can get it passed,” Dorgan said in a
telephone interview today. “Restricting the right of Americans
to travel to Cuba means you are punishing the American people
for transgressions of the Cuban government. That just doesn’t
make sense to me.”  
 Obama’s move to expand contact with Cuba at this level
would be in keeping with his administration’s overall approach
to foreign policy, even with countries with which the U.S. has
poor relations, said  Peter DeShazo , director of the Americas
Program at the  Center for Strategic and International Studies  in
Washington.  
 Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has emphasized the
importance of “people to people” exchanges in meetings with
leaders from Pakistan to Georgia, promoting study-abroad
programs and taking business delegations to the Middle East.  
 ‘Expanding Outreach’  
 “It’s a way of expanding opportunities for outreach and
possible dialogue, even with those seen as hostile to the
U.S.,” said DeShazo.  
 The U.S. exported $532 million worth of goods to Cuba last
year, most of it wheat, corn, meat and other farm goods. That
total could be higher if rules governing cash payments were made
simpler, U.S. farm groups say.  
 Groups such as the United States Tour Operators Association
and the National Foreign Trade Council, a Washington-based
organization of companies and trade associations, have called
for a repeal of the ban.  
 Dorgan and Enzi’s bill on the travel ban is  S. 428 .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Obama to Consider Easing U.S. Educational Travel to Cuba  
                       
                         
                           Adalberto Roque/AFP/Getty Images) 
                         
                         Cuban President Raul Castro smiles during the 5th Legislature of the Cuban National Assembly at the Parliament in Havana. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Cuban President Raul Castro smiles during the 5th Legislature of the Cuban National Assembly at the Parliament in Havana. Photographer: Adalberto Roque/AFP/Getty Images)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Nicole Gaouette reports on the possibility that President Barack Obama may ease travel restrictions to Cuba.
     Obama may allow more Americans to visit the island on educational and cultural trips, says a U.S. official who declined to be named because he is not authorized to speak on the subject. Gaouette talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Mark Crumpton. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
