-- Obama Says Job Growth a Positive Sign for Economy
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-08-07T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/obama-says-continued-growth-in-jobs-report-a-positive-sign-for-economy.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said a report
showing businesses added workers last month is a “good sign”
for the economy as he urged Congress to act on measures to help
boost job creation.  
 In remarks after the Labor Department reported yesterday
that private companies added 71,000 jobs last month, less than
forecast, Obama said more needs to be done to accelerate growth.
He made a plea for congressional action on his proposal to
provide more loans and tax incentives to small businesses.  
 “Climbing out of any recession, much less a hole as deep
as this one, takes some time,” Obama said after a visit to
Gelberg Signs, a Washington, D.C., commercial sign fabricator
that added workers under a law the president signed in March
that provides small businesses with a tax break for hiring the
unemployed.  
 Lawmakers must “rise above the election-time game and come
together” to boost the recovery, the president said.  
 The Labor Department figures showed the seventh straight
month of gains. Still, the increase was less than forecast and
wasn’t enough to chip away at the  unemployment  rate, which was
unchanged at 9.5 percent. Economists projected a 90,000 increase
in private jobs, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. Overall employment fell 131,000, reflecting the
dismissal of temporary census workers.  
 While Obama sought to put the data in a positive light,
stocks fell and Treasuries rallied because the report suggests
the economy will be slow in recovering the 8.4 million jobs lost
during the recession that began in December 2007.  
 The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  fell 0.4 percent to
1,121.64 at the 4 p.m. close in New York yesterday. The yield on
the 2-year note was at .502 percent after falling to an all-time
low of 0.4977 percent earlier in the day.  
 Disappointing  
 “It’s disappointing on its face,” Gus Faucher, an
economist a director of  Moody’s Analytics  in West Chester,
Pennsylvania, said of the jobs numbers. “We need to get above
150,000 new jobs per month to get unemployment down, and that’s
not going to happen probably until the end of this year.”  
 The report will add to pressure on Obama and congressional
Democrats as they try to convince voters the administration is
on the right course to economic recovery.  
 “It’s a difficult argument for the Democrats,” Faucher
said in a telephone interview. Lawmakers can cite an expanding
economy but “until the voters see that jobs are picking up in a
significant way -- and we haven’t had that yet -- they are going
to be skeptical.”  
 Republican Criticism  
 Republicans seized on the data. Representative  John Boehner 
of Ohio, the party’s leader in the House, said it was time for
the president to “face up to the fact that his stimulus
policies aren’t working.”  
 He warned that voters will rebel against a Democratic
effort to add another $26 billion in spending to aid states
struggling to pay for Medicaid and teachers’ salaries. Boehner
called it “a political season pay-off to union bosses.”  
 Democratic leaders in the House are calling lawmakers back
from recess next week to finish work on the legislation, which
passed the Senate Aug. 5. Still pending is legislation to expand
credit and cut taxes for small businesses.  
 Obama blamed Senate Republicans for “standing in the way”
of passing the small business bill.  
 “We need to do what’s right, not what’s political, and we
need to do it right now,” he said.  
 Turnaround  
 House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, said the
numbers showed a “sharp turnaround” from the job losses under
former President  George W. Bush , a Republican, and come
“despite congressional Republicans fighting against the
economic recovery every step of the way.”  
 Private employment in July was led by gains in
manufacturing and education and health services, according to
the department.  
 The economy has created about 654,000 jobs in 2010, with the
largest gains in March and April, said  Heather Boushey , senior
economist at the Washington-based Center for American Progress,
a research group whose views generally align with the White
House.  
 “While this is an improvement over the last year, the rate
of job creation remains less than about half of what it needs to
be just to keep pace with population growth, let alone get the
unemployed back to work,” Boushey said in a statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        