-- Obama Fed Board Pick Diamond Gets Referred Back to White House by Senate
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-08-06T22:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/obama-fed-board-pick-diamond-gets-referred-back-to-white-house-by-senate.html

          
          
             The Senate sent the nomination of
 Peter Diamond , one of President  Barack Obama ’s three nominees
for the Federal Reserve Board, back to the White House because
of objections from at least one lawmaker.  
 The office of the executive clerk of the Senate said the
procedural move occurred as part of actions taken on nominees
without debate before the chamber left for a summer break. Obama
is likely to resubmit Diamond’s nomination, an administration
official said.  
 While Diamond, 70, may still win confirmation, it’s a snag
for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology economics
professor who once taught Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . Alabama
Senator  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the Banking
Committee, said last week that Diamond, while a “skilled
economist,” may not be qualified to make decisions on monetary
policy.  
 “Peter Diamond is a strong nominee who had bipartisan
support in the Senate Banking Committee,” the panel’s chairman,
Connecticut Democrat  Christopher Dodd , said in a statement.
“While it is unfortunate that Mr. Diamond’s name has been sent
back to the President, I am confident that we will be able to
act swiftly on his nomination when it is received in the
Senate.”  
 The Senate took no action yesterday on the other two
nominees, including San Francisco Fed President  Janet Yellen  for
vice chairman and  Sarah Bloom Raskin  for a governor slot,
leaving them to await confirmation after senators return Sept.
13. That means that if Governor  Donald Kohn , whose separate term
as vice chairman ended in June, departs as planned on Sept. 1,
the Fed may be down to four governors for an unknown time.  
 ‘Hard’ to Operate  
 “It’s very hard for the Federal Reserve to operate with
only five people,” said former Fed Governor H.  Robert Heller ,
who served on the board from 1986 to 1989. “Four is the minimum
for a quorum. To have the Fed at full strength with seven
persons there is very important.”  
 Obama separately yesterday lost the head of the Council of
Economic Advisers, as  Christina Romer  resigned to return to a
post at the University of California at Berkeley.  
 Diamond received the most opposition of the three Fed
nominees in banking committee votes last week. The panel voted
16-7 in favor of Diamond, 17-6 for Yellen and 21-2 for Raskin,
Maryland’s commissioner of financial regulation. All of the
opposition came from Republican members.  
 Senate Rules  
 Under Senate rules, all nominations that aren’t completed
before a lengthy recess go back to the White House and have to
be resubmitted unless the Senate unanimously agrees to hold onto
them and act later, Stewart said. Routinely, the Senate does
agree to retain the nominations.  
 If a single senator objects, the name goes back to the
president’s office. In Diamond’s case, at least one senator did.
 Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell , said he didn’t know who objected.  
 “Professor Diamond is a skilled economist and certainly an
expert on tax policy and on the Social Security system,” Shelby
said July 28. “However, I do not believe he’s ready to be a
member of the Federal Reserve Board. I do not believe that the
current environment of uncertainty would benefit from monetary
policy decisions made by board members who are learning on the
job.”  
 Dodd said last week he “enthusiastically” supported all
three picks for the Fed. “Each brings a remarkable combination
of skills and experience,” he said before the committee vote.
Dodd said he expected a floor vote on the nominees in September.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Diamond’s Fed Nomination Sent Back to White House  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Peter Diamond, nominee for the U.S. Federal Reserve board of governors. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Peter Diamond, nominee for the U.S. Federal Reserve board of governors. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
