-- Supertanker Owners May Copy Frontline, Hold Back Ships After Rents Plunge
-- Alaric Nightingale
-- 2010-08-06T15:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/oil-supertanker-owners-may-copy-frontline-withhold-vessels-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Owners of supertankers delivering the
world’s seaborne crude oil may emulate industry leader  Frontline
Ltd.  and stop leasing the vessels until a plunge in rental
income is reversed, shipping analysts said.  
 “We expect other owners to follow suit,” Arctic
Securities ASA analysts  Martin Sommerseth Jaer  and  Erik Nikolai Stavseth  said in an e-mailed report today. “Ship owners are now
likely joining forces to limit vessel supply.”  
 Daily returns  for very large crude carriers, or VLCCs, on
the industry’s benchmark route from Saudi Arabia to Japan have
slid 93 percent to $6,237 since peaking in January, Baltic
Exchange data show. Frontline will anchor ships and decline
cargoes until conditions improve,  Jens Martin Jensen , chief
executive officer of the company’s management unit, said Aug. 4.  
 The four-week supply of ships fell by 16 vessels yesterday,
double the number of charters, Imarex Asia Pte, a Singapore-
based unit of freight-derivatives broker  Imarex ASA , said today.
That raised the question of whether some owners may be
withholding carriers from the spot market, it said.  
 About 39.6 million barrels of crude are shipped by sea each
day, according to data from  Clarkson Research Services Ltd. , a
unit of the world’s largest shipbroker. The International Energy
Agency estimates global demand will average 86.5 million barrels
a day in the present quarter.  
 $10,000 a Day  
 Owners may follow Frontline’s lead while rental income
remains below $10,000 a day,  Simon Chattrabhuti , head of tanker
research at ICAP Shipping International Ltd., said by e-mail
today. That’s the amount ICAP estimates owners need to pay crew,
repairs and other operating expenses.  
 Once finance costs are included, Frontline requires $31,100
a day, it said May 21. The company is the world’s biggest
supertanker operator.  
 The world’s 10 largest VLCC owners control 237 of the
ships, according to Clarkson. That equates to 45 percent of the
532-strong fleet of the vessels, according to Lloyd’s Register-
Fairplay data on Bloomberg. A VLCC can carry 2 million barrels
of crude.  
 Frontline’s decision has caused freight derivatives to
strengthen, implying charter rates will rise later this year,
Lorentzen & Stemoco A/S and First Securities A/S said in a joint
report today.  
 Charter rates as measured by the industry-standard
Worldscale system declined 0.3 percent to 47.21 points on the
 Saudi Arabia-to-Japan  route today, according to the Baltic
Exchange.  
 The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index , a broader measure of
commodity shipping costs, climbed 1.8 percent to 779 points
today after sliding 11 percent in the prior nine sessions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        