-- Seven-Year Kazakh Bribery Case Ends With `Sputtering' Misdemeanor Plea
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-08-06T22:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/oil-consultant-giffen-to-plead-guilty-to-misdemeanor-after-bribery-charges.html

          
          
             Oil consultant  Jim Giffen , after more
than seven years of fighting charges that he bribed government
leaders in Kazakhstan, pleaded guilty to a tax-related
misdemeanor.  
 Giffen said today in federal court in Manhattan that he
failed to supply information about a foreign bank account in a
1996 tax return. Mercator Corp., Giffen’s investment bank,
pleaded guilty to a single violation of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, the U.S. anti-bribery law. Under U.S. sentencing
guidelines, he faces no more than six months in prison and may
receive no jail time when he’s sentenced on Nov. 19.  
 Giffen, 69, was arrested in March 2003 and accused of
paying $84 million to Kazakh President  Nursultan Nazarbayev  and
other senior officials in violation of the FCPA. He is free on
$250,000 bail and living in Mamaroneck, a New York suburb, since
his arrest.  
 “Jim Giffen is gratified to begin to put this matter
behind him, more than seven years after the indictment in the
case and 10 years after the investigation began,” his lawyer,
 William Schwartz  of Cooley LLP in New York, said after the court
proceeding.  
 Giffen declined to comment after the hearing, saying only
that it was “another step” in the process.  
 Michael Perlis , a lawyer at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP
in Los Angeles who isn’t involved in the case, called the plea
“a face-saver for the government.”  
 ‘Basically Exonerated’  
 Giffen “was basically exonerated from the more serious
charges against him,” said Perlis, who helped draft the FCPA
while working at the Securities and Exchange Commission in the
1970s.  
 An American citizen who worked as a middleman for U.S. oil
companies in the 1990s, Giffen has denied allegations that he
bribed leaders of Kazakhstan to facilitate oil transactions. He
said U.S. intelligence agencies condoned his actions or gave him
reason to believe they did.  
 In the 1990s, Giffen worked as a representative for
Kazakhstan in the former Soviet republic’s negotiations with
U.S. companies including Mobil Oil Corp. Mobil, now part of
Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. , wasn’t accused of
wrongdoing.  
 Prosecutors alleged that Giffen made the payments to
facilitate six oil deals, including Mobil’s purchase of a stake
in Kazakhstan’s Tengiz field, one of the world’s largest.
Prosecutors in 2004 publicly identified Nazarbayev, a U.S. ally,
as a recipient of Giffen’s alleged payments.  
 Anti-Corruption Efforts  
 Giffen’s was among the largest FCPA prosecutions ever when
the U.S. started it, signaling the country’s expansion of anti-
corruption efforts worldwide. The law bars companies or
individuals working in the U.S. from paying bribes to foreign
officials to win business.  
 For years, the Giffen case was bogged down in appeals and
fighting between defense lawyers and prosecutors over access to
classified documents from the Central Intelligence Agency and
other government agencies. The Kazakh government tried to limit
the U.S. probe as early as 2002, according to court records.  
 In court, Giffen told U.S. District Judge  William Pauley 
today that he “willfully did not check the box” on his 1996
tax return indicating that he had signatory authority over a
Swiss bank account in the name of Condor Capital Management, a
British Virgin Islands company. He didn’t address the bribery
allegations.  
 “He is no longer facing umpteen years in prison,”
Schwartz said in court. “This is a misdemeanor.”  
 Two Snowmobiles  
 Schwartz entered the guilty plea on behalf of Mercator. He
said one reason Mercator gave a gift in 1999 of two snowmobiles
to a senior Kazakh official, whom he didn’t name, was to induce
the official to act improperly.  
 The U.S. in 2007 reached a deal with officials in
Kazakhstan and Switzerland, where $84 million in secret accounts
had been frozen, to use the funds to pay for programs for poor
children and to improve transparency in the Kazakh oil industry.
Giffen and Mercator today surrendered “any right, title, or
interest” in $84 million that was frozen in Switzerland.  
 “I commend the prosecutors for having the courage to take
another look at this case,” Pauley said as he accepted the
plea.  
 Last year, the U.S. Justice Department won convictions in
three FCPA trials: a 2005 case over bribes in Azerbaijan, a 2007
case dealing in part with payments to a high-ranking Nigerian
official, and a 2008 case over bribes in Thailand.  
 “It’s a sputtering end for such a high-profile
prosecution,” said  Richard Cassin , the founder of Singapore-
based law firm Cassin Law LLC, who also writes the  FCPA Blog .  
 “The case shows how complicated FCPA prosecutions can be.
Foreign rulers and governments are always involved, evidence is
overseas, and in Giffen’s case, the shadowy world of
intelligence and energy policy all converged.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Giffen, 03-CR-00404, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        