-- Judge's Niece Avoids Jail in Hong Kong Police Assault As Probation Upheld
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-08-06T13:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/hong-kong-judge-s-niece-should-be-jailed-for-assault-prosecutor-says.html

          
          
             A Hong Kong judge’s niece will stay
on probation for assaulting a police officer, a magistrate ruled
today in rejecting prosecutors’ arguments she should be jailed
for her third such conviction.  
 “The focus of this court is not whether or not the
defendant is rich or poor,” Magistrate Anthony Yuen said as he
upheld his earlier sentence of Amina Mariam Bokhary. “It’s
whether the defendant is good or bad in nature, whether she has
a chance at rehabilitation.”  
 Bokhary, the niece of  Court of Final Appeal Justice Kemal Bokhary , received a year’s probation for the assault and was
fined for refusing to submit to a breath test after an auto
accident Jan. 27. After her sentence was upheld, Amina Bokhary,
34, gave a thumbs-up sign to a bodyguard as she got up to leave.  
 The Hong Kong Department of Justice plans to apply to the
Court of Appeal to review the sentence, according to a  statement 
on the government’s website today.  
 Kevin Zervos , deputy director of public prosecutions, said
today the history and seriousness of Bokhary’s crimes warrant an
immediate jail term and asked Yuen to rethink his earlier
sentence. Bokhary had two prior convictions for assaulting
police officers that resulted in fines and community service.  
 “It appears that nothing has changed,” Zervos said. “She
was given a chance at rehabilitation and it wasn’t taken.”  
 Bokhary’s lawyer, Christopher Morley, said his client
“would like to start serving her sentence and to go on with her
life.”  
 Mental Illness  
 Another of Bokhary’s lawyers, Peter Duncan, said public
perceptions she received a light sentence because she came from
a prominent and wealthy family were incorrect. Bokhary suffers
from mental illness that was documented in statements from
psychiatrists, and her sentence was “right on the mark,”
Duncan said.  
 The South China Morning Post  reported  earlier Bokhary was
also ordered to undergo treatment at the  Betty Ford Center , a
substance-abuse clinic in the U.S. Putting Bokhary in jail would
address public concerns about the case “but will destroy the
rest of the life of the defendant,” Yuen said.  
 The Department of Justice should appeal the sentence “to
set a clearer guidance on the penalty in such cases,” Tony Liu,
chairman of the  Hong Kong Police Inspectors’ Association , said
outside the court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        