-- Lonmin Falls Most in 5 Weeks After Government Order to Halt Non-Plat Sales
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-08-06T15:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/lonmin-falls-most-in-5-weeks-after-government-order-to-halt-non-plat-sales.html

          
          
             Lonmin Plc , the world’s third-biggest
platinum producer, slumped the most in more than five weeks in
London trading after South Africa ordered it to halt sales of
nickel, copper, chrome and other non-platinum group metals.  
  Lonmin  fell 5.1 percent, the most since June 29. South
Africa on Aug. 4 told the London-based company to halt the sales
after awarding the rights for a “small” part of the non-
platinum resources on Lonmin’s Western Platinum Ltd. and Eastern
Platinum Ltd. sites to a unit of the country’s  HolGoun Group .  
 “There’s no reason that has been given,” Lonmin spokesman
 Rupert Pittman  said by phone in London today. The minerals are a
“natural by-product” of platinum group metals mining, he said.
Lonmin, which also applied for the rights awarded to the HolGoun
Group company, is challenging the government’s decision.  
 HolGoun’s application was “in accordance with the strict
ambit of the law,” Anastasia Maimonis, the company’s business
development chief, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
The unlisted company will seek to cooperate with Lonmin on “co-
mining,” assuming the project proves viable, Maimonis said.  
 Lonmin was 5.1 percent weaker at 1,557 pence by the close
of trading in London, after touching a low of 1,549 pence.  
 This “puts South Africa in a poor light,”  Peter Davey ,
head of mining research at Ambrian Capital Plc, said in London.
“It’s impractical to split the ownership when it comes to PGMs
and other physically/chemically associated minerals.”  
 Company in Recovery  
 Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , controlled by  Anglo American Plc , is
also challenging a decision by the government to award 21.4
percent of the prospecting rights at its Sishen mine to Imperial
Crown Trading Ltd., a company whose only asset is that right.  
 Sales of non-platinum group metals added $80 million to
Lonmin’s revenue in the 2009 fiscal year, or 7.5 percent of the
total, according to its statement. Shares in unlisted HolGoun
are held by interests associated with Sivi Gounden, who resigned
from Lonmin’s board in October, the London-based company said.  
 Neither  Sandile Nogxina , director general of South Africa’s
minerals department, nor  Jeremy Michaels , its spokesman, were
available for comment when Bloomberg News called their phones.  
 Lonmin on July 22 said third-quarter output of platinum
fell 47 percent because of a leak at its main furnace, while
costs may be more than $17.5 million than planned as the company
pays rivals to take over some of its smelting.  
 “The sales of the non-platinum group metals while small,
are important in a company still in recovery,” Davey said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        