-- Monsanto-backed Mahyco Plans India's First GM Wheat
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-08-06T05:53:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/monsanto-backed-mahyco-plans-india-s-first-gene-modified-wheat-in-5-years.html

          
          
             Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds Co ., an
Indian company backed by  Monsanto Co. , plans to develop the
country’s first gene-modified wheat and rice in the next three
to five years to help secure food supplies for the nation’s 1.2
billion people.  
 The company is working on various traits of genetically
altered grains that can withstand drought and salinity,  Usha Barwale Zehr , the chief technology officer at Mahyco, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. India’s government in February
rejected the nation’s first gene-modified food, brinjal, or
eggplant, after protests by farmers.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has called for better
technology to lift farm output to feed a nation growing by 18
million people a year and to meet an election promise of giving
rice and wheat to the poor at below market prices. Wheat has
jumped to the highest level in almost two years as Russia, the
third-biggest grower, said it will ban grain exports because of
the country’s worst drought in at least a half century.  
 “The biggest challenge facing us going forward would be
drought and salinity, which affects food productivity,” said
Bharat Char, the head of biotechnology research at Mahyco. “We
have projects aimed at improving tolerance.”  
 Record Food Costs  
 Global food costs reached records in 2008, led by rice, as
some exporters halted shipments amid a shortage.  United Nations 
Secretary-General  Ban Ki-Moon  warned last year the food-price
crisis of 2008 will be repeated unless governments act. Prime
Minister Singh said on Feb. 1 that there’s a “false sense of
security” that food supplies are no longer a concern for the
second-biggest producer of wheat, rice and sugar.  
 While the U.S. and Canada have grown genetically modified
crops like corn and soybeans for years, resistance remains
 strong in Europe , where some nations rejected the use of crops
changed to increase resistance to drought, pests or specific
herbicides. China approved strains of gene-modified rice and
corn last year and said mass output will be allowed after trial
planting and public acceptance of the crops.  
 India’s Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee will take a
decision on commercial cultivation of brinjal before the end of
this year, Mahyco’s Barwale said. The company has data generated
from over nine years’ of research and field trials, she said.  
 “Having a GM product in wheat and rice will highlight the
bio-safety process and issues, which have been raised with BT
brinjal,” she said. “As we look to bring rice and wheat, it’s
very critical that we go ahead with BT brinjal and show that our
systems are as good as anywhere else in the world.”  
 Shares Advance  
 Monsanto India Ltd.’s shares rose as much as 3.5 percent to
1,935 rupees, the highest intraday level in six months. Mahyco,
whose shares aren’t publicly traded, is 26 percent owned by St.
Louis-based Monsanto.  
 Environment Minister  Jairam Ramesh , who held seven public
meetings in six cities over BT brinjal with farmers, scientists
and environmental groups, in February imposed a moratorium until
safety studies are carried out and “public confidence and trust
is restored” in the new variety.  
 Brinjal is a staple that India also exports to countries
including the U.K., France, Germany and Hong Kong, according to
the National Horticulture Board. Larvae that bore into plants
wipe out as much as 70 percent of yield in existing varieties,
according to Mahyco.  
 India has said it wants gene-modified technology to be part
of efforts to raise output of staples, following the success of
transgenic cotton introduced in 2002. Gene-altered cotton,
including that of Monsanto’s Bollgard varieties, represents 90
percent of the nation’s planting. The country has moved from
being a net buyer to the second-biggest grower and exporter.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       India's prime minister Manmohan Singh  
                       
                         
                           Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg 
                         
                         India's prime minister Manmohan Singh, seen here, has called for better technology to lift farm output to feed a nation growing by 18 million people a year and to meet an election promise of giving rice and wheat to the poor at below market prices. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     India's prime minister Manmohan Singh, seen here, has called for better technology to lift farm output to feed a nation growing by 18 million people a year and to meet an election promise of giving rice and wheat to the poor at below market prices. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Monsanto-backed Mahyco plans India's first GM wheat  
                       
                         
                           Trevor Snapp/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Wheat stalks sit in a field ready for harvest. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Wheat stalks sit in a field ready for harvest. Photographer: Trevor Snapp/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
