-- Motjoli Seeks $1.5 Billion to Develop Its Iron Ore Project in South Africa
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2010-08-06T10:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/motjoli-seeks-1-5-billion-to-develop-its-iron-ore-project-in-south-africa.html

          
          
             Motjoli Resources Ltd. , a South
African miner, plans to raise as much as $1.5 billion to fund
the construction of an iron ore mine that may produce as much as
20 million metric tons of the steelmaking ingredient a year.  
 Motjoli will apply to the Industrial Development Corp. and
the Development Bank of South Africa, among others, to fund a
project that may start operating as soon as the final quarter of
2011, Executive Chairman  Nchakha Moloi  said in an interview in
Moscow yesterday. The company may also look to steelmakers and
mining companies for funding, he said.  
 “We’ll look for outside funding, which could include
funding from South African development institutions, corporate
banks and also other investors with deeper pockets,” Moloi
said. “As we expand, we’ll bring in more investors.”  
 Motjoli’s ore project, at Piet Retief in South Africa’s
 Mpumalanga province , has 1.2 billion tons of proven reserves,
said Moloi, a former deputy director general of the Department
of Mineral Resources. This could grow to more than 2 billion
tons once land around the main site has been fully explored.  
 While the mine is initially expected to produce about 6
million tons a year, this could rise to as much as 20 million
tons within three years, Moloi said. To expand beyond that, the
company would need railroads to be built, allowing it to sell
iron ore abroad, he said. The project is located near the
kingdom of Swaziland, not far from the border with  Mozambique .  
 Motjoli, which means the leader of a flock of birds in the
Sotho language, plans to expand into other African nations to
broaden the range of commodities it mines.  
 Chrome in Madagascar  
 The company sees possible iron ore, cement and limestone
projects in Mali and chrome and bauxite deposits in Madagascar,
Moloi said. Rare earth metals may be another area of expansion,
he said.  
 The company may attract investors from abroad, including
from Russia, for its new projects, Moloi said ahead of meetings
with investors this week.  
 “There’s a lot of commonalities between South Africa and
Russia in the resources sector and mining,” said Moloi, who was
travelling as part of a South African delegation led by
President  Jacob Zuma . “The kind of commodities we work with,
iron ore, manganese and coal, are exactly what the Russians are
interested in. So, there could be business opportunities.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        