-- Loveman Plays `Purely Empirical' Game as Harrah's CEO
-- Karl Taro Greenfeld
-- 2010-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/loveman-plays-new-purely-empirical-game-as-harrah-s-ceo.html

          
          
             Gary Loveman , the chief executive
officer of  Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the largest gaming
corporation in the world, sees his customers as a set of
probabilities wrapped in human flesh.  
 First he considers the most basic set of probabilities,
gender and age, since females are more regular gamblers than
males and older women are the most  lucrative  demographic of all.
Then he factors in where we live, what we do, how much we make,
and, most important, how we wager and what we play when we come
to one of his casinos. From those details, Loveman can divine to
a remarkably accurate degree how much you, or the set of
probabilities you represent, will be worth to Harrah’s over the
course of your lifetime.  
 “I am purely empirical,” Loveman says in Bloomberg
Businessweek’s Aug. 9 issue, sounding like the former Harvard
Business School professor he is. “I am not attached to any
romantic notion of how this business should be run. I am only
driven where the evidence takes me.”  
 Loveman is a unique figure in American business: an
academic theoretician who made the transition to operating a
multibillion dollar  corporation .  
 Uncommon career path aside, he’s not much of a gambler.
He sees the floor at Caesars Palace as his storefront, and the
people at the craps and blackjack and roulette tables and at his
beloved slot machines -- those computerized boxes that pay out
less than craps tables and gather so much more information -- as
the customers Harrah’s must strive to please. The happier they
are, the more pleasant their experience at one of Harrah’s 52
casinos, then the more likely the set of probabilities embodied
in each of them will continue to pay out for Loveman.  
 Boom Years  
 When you look out at a casino floor, you see people
playing blackjack or the slots; when Gary Loveman looks out at
that floor, he sees his slots or his table games playing you.  
 “Mathematics is the language of logical expression,” he
says, “and my mind works very logically. I have found in the
casino business that is a great help most of the time.”  
 Since  taking over  as CEO in 2003, Loveman, 50, has relied
on the numbers to build Harrah’s from a regional operator of 15
casinos to one with 39 in the U.S. and 13 more overseas.  
 He snapped up properties during the  boom years , buying the
World Series of Poker and three casinos from Binion’s Horseshoe
for $1.5 billion in 2004, Caesars Entertainment for $9.3 billion
in 2005 and the Imperial Palace in Las Vegas for $370 million
later that year. In 2007 he spent $600 million to acquire a golf
course in Macau -- the largest piece of land in the fastest-
growing, most lucrative gaming market on the planet, according
to the American Gaming Association. Late last year he bought the
Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino in Vegas, once worth
$1 billion, for just $70 million and the assumption of $550
million in  debt .  
 Slot Boxes  
 These were what Loveman calls “high-probability”
purchases; each acquisition, except for Macau, provided
immediate revenue growth as Harrah’s Entertainment emerged as
the largest owner of real estate on the Las Vegas Strip. In
October, Harrah’s plans to change its name to Caesars
Entertainment.  
 “My sort of logic excels at things like acquisitions or
expansions or developments,” he says, “where I can look at the
numbers and make it a defined, deductive problem.”  
 The  numbers  also compelled Loveman to reject the
traditional Vegas business model of spending billions to build
bigger, more lavish “slot boxes,” as he calls the opulent
casinos that dominate the strip. They tend to produce fantastic
revenue their first year or so; after that, their performance
steadily deteriorates as “other, better boxes are built.”  
 Customer Targeting  
 Instead, Loveman concentrated on building loyalty among
Harrah’s customers. Before he got to Vegas, casino marketing
meant spending big money to lure “whales,” industry parlance
for extremely wealthy gamblers, to town. Loveman went broader,
compiling a vast customer database and sending targeted offers
and come-back-soon inducements to millions of people with the
desired probabilities.  
 The program has driven gaming revenue -- far more
profitable than food or hospitality -- to 80 percent of Harrah’s
 $9 billion business , versus an industry average of 45 percent,
according to the gaming association.  
 Harrah’s  shareholders  profited in 2008, when private
equity firms Apollo Management and TPG Capital took Harrah’s
private for $30.7 billion, the last big leveraged buyout of the
pre-crash era; stockholders took home $90 a share as Loveman and
his new partners increased Harrah’s debt load to $24 billion.
Apollo and TPG didn’t fare as well. Their deal valued Harrah’s
equity at $17.1 billion; today it is valued at $7.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Worst Decision  
 Loveman’s way with the numbers, he admits, can also be a
weakness. It was responsible for the worst decision he has made
as CEO, a mistake he’s been trying to rectify for the past four
years: his 2006 refusal to bid on a $900 million gambling
concession -- and one of just six gaming licenses -- in Macau.
He bought the golf course a year later in a belated attempt to
get in on the action.  
 “The quantification on Macau took me in the opposite
direction,” he said. “You had to have a kind of intuitive
courage and I am not well suited to those kinds of decisions.”  
 Because he passed on the deal, Harrah’s is for now locked
out of the industry’s most important emerging market. “Big
mistake. I was wrong, I was really wrong.”  
 Missing Macau  
 Harrah’s, and Loveman, are still paying the price. As Vegas
swooned, Macau boomed to the point where competitors such as Las
Vegas Sands and Wynn Resorts are now making more revenue in the
coastal Chinese city than they do in Vegas. As rival CEOs  Steve Wynn  and  Sheldon Adelson  of the Sands made the decision to pile
into Macau, the numbers told Loveman to stay out.  
 “I try to be self-reflective of the fact that this is a
short-coming of mine,” he says. “I am trying to address that
vulnerability by asking myself over and over again if I am over-
thinking the problem. Am I missing something?”  
 Loveman is sitting in his office on the second floor of
the Palace Tower at Caesars -- just upstairs from the counter
where they give out the towels for the Garden of the Gods Pool
Oasis. It’s a vast rectangle decorated with wood panels,
overstuffed chairs with beige stripes and a maple bookcase with
a signed Super Bowl XXXV helmet, models of Harrah’s fleet of
jets and photos of Loveman with various notables. The decor is
C-suite Modern -- Loveman can’t say who did the tropical-themed
painting of a veranda and garden that hangs on the wall.
“Reggie?” He shouts to his assistant. “Who is responsible for
the painting above my desk?” She blames the design firm.  
 Weekends in Boston  
 He is a large man -- 6 foot 1, roughly 250 pounds, and
“uncomfortable in the gym,” as he says -- with brown hair,
square face, large jowls, no neck. He dresses simply; on an
early summer day -- 108 in the shade -- he’s wearing black
shoes, grey slacks with a white pin stripe, a blue shirt and an
orange tie. He speaks in a gravelly voice and a steady,  Al Gore- like  drone of impeccable diction and complete sentences. When it
comes to interviews, he has certain ground rules. His family is
off-limits.  
 “There are three reasons for this,” says Loveman, who
lives with his wife in a suburb of Boston, has three children in
college and flies home from Vegas on weekends in a corporate
jet.  
 Postal Probabilities  
 “One, I have 80,000 some-odd people working for me here
and a small number of them are likely to be unhappy with me for
some reason -- we’ve laid off their wife, they’ve lost their
health benefits, something,” he says. “The second is that we
are in the middle of a long and unpleasant negotiation with the
UAW over unionizing one of our Atlantic City operations. And the
third is there are a number of people who think gambling is the
devil’s work and that I am a consummate devil because I am a
smart devil.”  
 Gaming CEOs are known to take extreme security precautions,
in part because one never knows the intentions of those who, as
Loveman puts it, “may have an adverse result at the casino.”  
 If a bundle of probabilities goes postal, he doesn’t want
to be there for it.  
 Vegas Before the Fall  
 The last time I visited Las Vegas, in May of 2007, the U.S.
economy was booming, shrugging off the first waves of the
housing crisis and Bear Stearns was still a going concern.  
 It was the weekend of the  Oscar De La Hoya / Floyd Mayweather 
junior middleweight title bout, then the highest-grossing fight
in boxing history, and everything in town -- a room, taxi, table
-- required waiting in line. The nation’s wealth was everywhere
on display, and every casino was jammed. The skyline itself was
rapidly transforming, as huge construction projects --
$55 billion worth of mostly junk-bond-financed “slot boxes” --
promised to give gaming executives even more opportunities to
cash in on favorable probabilities.  
 The casinos were then so flush that deals like the
leveraged buyout of Harrah’s Entertainment -- and the billions
of dollars in debt taken on by competitor gaming companies such
as MGM Resorts International and Las Vegas Sands -- made sense
to everyone involved: the bankers who were underwriting it, the
hedge funds who were buying it and the casino owners who would
be servicing it from the easy money they were sure to keep
raking in.  
 Loveman and his Apollo and TPG partners had run the
numbers, gone through the probabilities and concluded that
servicing their $24 billion debt load was only a matter of
maintaining single-digit gaming growth.  
 2007 Peak  
 Primarily on Loveman’s loyalty program, Harrah’s had
achieved annual double-digit growth for the previous half-
decade. The plan of the private equity investors was to take the
company public after a few years and rake in billions in
management fees, dividends, carry charges and initial public
offering profits.  
 That fight weekend was among the best in Las Vegas
history. Casino drops were fantastic, according to Harrah’s, and
occupancy throughout the town was 99 percent. Total Las Vegas
gaming revenue would peak in 2007 at $10.9 billion, before
falling to $9.8 billion in 2008 and $8.8 billion last year,
according to the Las Vegas Convention & Visitors Authority.
Harrah’s worldwide revenue fell, too, from $10.8 billion in 2007
to $8.9 billion last year.  
 On the June weekend three years later when I flew in to
meet Gary Loveman, the half-dozen building projects that had
started in the midst of the boom, financed in part by all that
debt, were stalled and mothballed.  
 Financial Engineer  
 With the Las Vegas Strip’s gaming revenue down from $6.8
billion in 2007 to $5.5 billion by 2009, the demand for more
slot boxes just wasn’t there, nor was the revenue to service the
debt. Huge projects like MGM Resorts’ CityCenter required a $270
million infusion of crisis funding. Boyd Gaming had halted
construction of its $4 billion Echelon Place, the $3 billion
Fountainebleau had filed for bankruptcy.  
 Although Harrah’s had not taken part in the slot box
boom, it had expanded, then taken on vast debt for a leveraged
buyout at precisely the wrong time.  
 “One wouldn’t choose to do this in advance of a consumer
spending collapse,” Loveman concedes. He was forced to find
$600 million in cost savings to survive 2009 and had to reinvent
himself as a financial engineer.  
 ‘Thinking of Surviving’  
 “Summer of ‘08 was an inflection point,’’ says Harrah’s
Chief Financial Officer  Jonathan Halkyard . ‘‘We went from
thinking of growing to thinking of surviving.’’  
 Loveman, meanwhile, had gone from running a public
company and answering to a board and shareholders to running a
private company, along with his private equity partners, and
answering to his debt-holders.  
 ‘‘The balance sheet had become our adversary,’’ he says.
‘‘You look at the situation in October 2008 and revenue is
falling away in an unprecedented way. We had created value by
taking care of the customer and providing a good experience, but
as of the second week of October 2008, that wasn’t going to be
enough.’’  
 By early 2009 investors were anxious about holding more
than $14 billion worth of notes that were trading as low as 13
cents on the dollar. Harrah’s had just reported its fourth
straight quarter of losses; the middle-class gamblers that
Loveman had cultivated were staying away from the casinos.
Loveman describes what happened next as ‘‘learning a new game.’’  
 He had been brought in to solve a marketing issue, yet
suddenly he had to address a balance sheet issue. Renegotiating
a crippling debt load in the face of the biggest financial
crisis of his lifetime was not something he’d taught at Harvard.
‘‘I had to get good at this fast,’’ he recalls.  
 Digging In  
 Halkyard recalls watching Loveman turn the crisis into an
opportunity. ‘‘Gary is not just conceptually very smart. He is
willing to get into details. He digs in.’’  
 Loveman concluded Harrah’s had to  reduce debt  and debt
servicing expenditures, so the company executed 13 capital
markets transactions, Halkyard says, reducing debt by about
$4.5 billion and pushing out the maturities to buy time.
Harrah’s ended 2008 with $24 billion in debt; today it owes
about  $19 billion .  
 What Loveman was doing, with a huge assist from  Marc Rowan , managing partner of Apollo, and  David Bonderman , a
founding partner of TPG -- ‘‘the F-16 pilots of debt
refinancing,” as Loveman calls them -- was making holders of
Harrah’s debt an offer they couldn’t refuse: Trade your old debt
for new debt, and take a haircut in the process.  
 The alternative? Loveman didn’t need to spell it out:
Watch your  investment  shrink to nothing as Harrah’s is crushed
by its own debt. You could pay a little now -- a few billion --
or pay a lot more later.  
 Game Theory  
 “It was poker,” Loveman says. “It was game theory,
something I’m very comfortable with. It was a matter of
recognizing and anticipating the decision of the other actor
when confronted with the information that would become available
to them. Here is the choice set that is available to you, so
what are you going to do?”  
 Loveman knew the answer before he asked it. It was just a
matter of figuring out the probabilities.  
 Theory Into Practice  
 Growing up in Indianapolis, Loveman was among the first
white kids in town to be bused to a predominantly African
American high school. He was a good student, having inherited an
aptitude for mathematics from his father, an engineer for
Western Electric. The youngest of three siblings, he became an
unlikely combination of math geek and popular jock, the only
white player on the basketball team at Thomas Carr Howe High
School.  
 “I have always been able to get along with a wide range of
people successfully,” he says. “I think it has something to do
with why I was able to go from academia to business and not be
repellent to everyone.”  
 Loveman attended Wesleyen University, earned a Ph.D. in
economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and put
in two years as an economic researcher at the Federal Reserve
Bank of Boston before joining Harvard Business School. While at
Harvard he became interested in customer service, a subject most
quants shied away from.  
 “My studies up until that point had been in disciplinary
economics,” Loveman says. “There was very little formalization
of service as a discipline. There is a long history of research
and engineering around factory optimization, scheduling,
throughput. On the other hand, the service sector was seen as a
poor cousin.”  
 In Demand  
 When he talked about customer service in his classes, he
noticed, his students perked up. We all live as customers, he
realized, not plant managers or finance directors. He applied
his quantitative background to the subject and proved a link
between happier customers and more profitable companies, a
connection described in his 1994 Harvard Business Review paper
“Putting the Service-Profit Chain to Work.”  
 Soon after its publication, Loveman was in demand as a
speaker, consultant and seminar leader for major corporations
eager to cash in on his idea that labor was more than a function
of cost and that happy employees led to repeat customers who
spent more. He says that executives from virtually every
industry were interested in hearing his ideas, save one. Asked
to lead some Harvard-style case studies with groups of Harrah’s
hotel and gaming executives, he saw that “the gaming guys
wouldn’t show up, or if they did, it was clear they hadn’t done
the reading. They just didn’t evidence any curiosity about this
subject. They just weren’t intellectually curious about
anything.”  
 Loveman had been in a casino only once in his life, a
quick walk through one in Monte Carlo when he was 26. He played
a few hands of blackjack, observed that the odds were against
him and lost interest.  
 Letter to Satre  
 Now, as he considered where his ideas about customer
service might best be applied, he realized that casino gambling
was precisely the kind of commoditized business -- what’s the
point of differentiation between this slot machine or that craps
table? -- where customer service could make a difference. In
1997 he wrote a letter to  Philip G. Satre , the CEO of Harrah’s,
outlining some of his ideas.  
 In 1998, as Harrah’s was about to embark on wave of
expansion, Satre asked Loveman to take a break from Harvard to
become chief operating officer of Harrah’s Entertainment.  
 “In terms of income, it was actually a pay cut,”
Loveman says, since he had to forego the consulting that
supplemented his income as a professor.  
 Know Your Customer  
 His first big move as COO was to start a loyalty program
called Total Rewards, which became such a success -- growing to
over 40 million members by 2010, the largest database of
probabilities in the industry -- that by the time Satre stepped
down in 2003, Loveman had become the logical choice to succeed
him.  
 “Obviously,” says Loveman, “as CEO, I’ve more than
made up for whatever income shortfall I initially experienced.”
The value of his salary, stock options and deferred compensation
at the time of the Harrah’s leveraged buyout was $90 million,
according to SEC  filings .  
 Today, the Total Rewards program remains the linchpin of
Harrah’s success. The first loyalty program in the industry to
be applied across every casino in a company, it allowed for a
more accurate analysis of betting patterns -- probabilities --
and a more equitable distribution of “comps” or free rooms,
meals, show tickets and the like. In the past, such perquisites
tended to go to the flashiest high rollers and the noisiest
comp-seekers, not necessarily those contributing the most to
Harrah’s bottom line.  
 Loveman instituted a similar program for Harrah’s staff,
who are given points, based on customer satisfaction surveys,
that can be redeemed through a website for products. Even
Harrah’s C-suite executives have their compensation pegged to
customer service scores.  
 Being Unsexy  
 To analyze the customer data it collects, Harrah’s spends
about $100 million a year on information technology, compiling
preferences and probabilities that led Loveman to a startling
conclusion. Harrah’s makes more money from elderly slot machine
players than any other demographic in the casino -- even the
high-rolling millionaires casinos traditionally spent fortunes
luring and flying in by private jet.  
 “The slot player was the forgotten customer,” Loveman
says, “and the slot player offered us the biggest benefit in
terms of collection data. ... I had to be willing to be unsexy
in this. I can take you to a casino that would have a lot of
young beautiful people in there and you would say, ‘Man, this is
a happening place.’ I could take you to another place where
there are a lot of people who look like your parents. The latter
would be a lot more profitable than the former. My job is to
make the latter.”  
 Engine Room  
 Although Loveman has remade Harrah’s as an old-fashioned
service sector juggernaut, the firm does have a newfangled
engine room. The motor is the database, maintained in Las Vegas
servers and managed out of One Harrah’s Court, the old corporate
headquarters where the IT and marketing departments now reside.
Spend a few days at a Harrah’s property, and the information the
company compiles about you will end up here, analyzed by
proprietary software that assigns each and every Harrah’s guest
a theoretical value. The higher the value given to you -- not to
be misconstrued as a source of pride -- the more likely you are
to lose your money to Loveman.  
 During a recent visit to Harrah’s, I sat with two members
of the Total Rewards staff, Matthew Bowers and Andrea Mathews,
as they pulled up the profiles of various players. Thirty-year-
old “A” from Chicago, for example, is a female slot player who
has made 36 trips to Harrah’s Chicagoland casino in Illinois,
playing an average of 47 minutes per trip and losing about $156
each time she plays. She is an active buffet customer, and
Harrah’s will entice her back soon with bigger and better buffet
offers.  
 $529 Sucker  
 Next, Bowers and Mathews pulled up my profile. I had
spent exactly 8 hours and 34 minutes gambling. They had on my
screen the games I played, the duration and the value I
represented. They knew, for example, that I had sat down to play
Pai Gow Poker at 12:39 p.m. and gotten up from the table one
hour and six minutes later. I had bought in for $800 and cashed
out for $1,300. That was among my better gambling sessions that
trip.  
 They had tracked what I’d eaten, how much I’d spent and
where I’d shopped. Based on my age, gender, zip code and gaming
preferences, they had assigned me a theoretical value of $529,
meaning that was how much they expected me to lose every time I
came to a Harrah’s property.  
 “You’re a good player,” said Bowers. “You’ll be
getting an attractive offer from us.” Then he smiled at me.
“Please, keep playing.”  
 Which meant I was exactly the kind of sucker they were
looking for.  
 Debt Restructuring  
 Harrah’s is likely to be around for many years, separating
probabilities from their money. After the debt restructuring
Loveman engineered in 2009, less than 1 percent of Harrah’s debt
comes due in the next two years. By contrast, competitor MGM
Resorts has 15 percent of its debt scheduled for repayment in
that time, according to the company. On Aug. 4, Harrah’s
reported a $274 million  quarterly loss ; Loveman said he was
“encouraged by the recovery” in Vegas.  
 Returning to double-digit growth, however, requires Loveman
to undo his big mistake -- not acquiring a gaming concession in
Macau.  
 Of the three areas of potential gaming industry growth,
Loveman has positioned Harrah’s to succeed in two. If Internet
poker is ever legalized, then his World Series of Poker is
likely to be a dominant brand.  
 Ohio to Massachusetts  
 And as casinos open up in more states across the U.S. --
Ohio last year became the 25th state to legalize casino
gambling, according to the National Conference of State
Legislatures, and Massachusetts appears deadlocked over the
details of a legalization bill -- Harrah’s, with $3 billion in
 cash and available credit , is poised to expand into these
emerging markets. The third area -- booming Asia, where Loveman
missed a big chance -- remains a challenge.  
 “Gary did an incredible job getting the company through
the liquidity crisis,” says  Frank J. Fahrenkopf Jr ., president
and CEO of the gaming association. “Now he needs to figure out
Asia.”  
 Loveman’s 2007 purchase of the 175-acre Orient Golf
(Macau) Club, which Loveman has described as a “$600 million
round of golf,” was an attempt to make up for not bidding on a
gaming concession a year earlier.  
 An Asian Recovery?  
 Without a license -- the Chinese government has allowed
six and shows no inclination to increase the number -- the land
is valuable, just not as precious as it would be with a big, fat
Caesars Palace sitting on it. Loveman, who is also chairman of
the Harrah’s board, and his private equity partners have been
working steadily to change that, either by purchasing a share of
a concession or lobbying the Chinese government.  
 It was in part to fund whatever Asian expansion becomes
possible that Harrah’s in June swapped $710 million in debt held
by  John Paulson , who also owns stakes in MGM Resorts and Boyd
Gaming, for 9.9 percent of the company, which puts Harrah’s
current value at $7.2 billion. As part of the deal, Paulson,
Apollo and TPG bought from Harrah’s an additional $557 million
in bonds.  
 Paulson will be allowed to register and sell his shares,
though Harrah’s and its private equity partners say they still
control the timing of an IPO. Paulson does not have a board
seat. Eventually, Harrah’s will go public again, providing
capital for its Asian expansion.  
 Bouncing Back?  
 “There are two scarce resources in Macau,” Loveman
says, “land and gaming licenses. If you wish to have a resort
in Macau, you need to have access to those two things. We have
one of them.”  
 If Harrah’s establishes itself in Asia, Loveman will have
completed a remarkable career journey.  
 First, he was a business school professor who saw his
theories succeed in practice. Then, a crisis manager who learned
a new skill set. And finally, an executive who bounced back from
a serious error in strategy and found a way into his industry’s
most important market.  
 Or not: That chapter hasn’t been written, and a post-IPO
Harrah’s may or may not have Gary Loveman at the head of the
company. Someone who analyzes the probabilities as carefully as
Loveman has no doubt studied those odds.  
 He says he is prepared for any eventuality. When he left
Harvard back in 1998, he recalls, he thought of it as a
sabbatical anyway.  
 For Related News and Information:
News on Harrah’s debt: HET US <Equity> TCNI BON <GO>
Harrah’s debt distribution: HET US <Equity> DDIS <GO>
Harrah’s peer-product comparison: HET US <Equity> PPC <GO>
Syndicated loans NI SYNLOAN <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gary Loveman, chairman of Harrah's Entertainment Inc  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gary Loveman, chairman of Harrah's Entertainment Inc. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gary Loveman, chairman of Harrah's Entertainment Inc. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
