-- Pakistan Expects More Heavy Rains Over Weekend, May Face Renewed Flooding
-- Khurrum Anis
-- 2010-08-06T06:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/pakistan-expects-more-heavy-rains-over-weekend-may-face-renewed-flooding.html

          
          
             Pakistan  is forecast to receive heavy
rains over the weekend, threatening standing crops after the
deadliest floods in decades submerged hundreds of villages and
left more than four million people stranded.  
 It started raining in the southern province of Sindh
yesterday and the rains will continue, Qamar uz Zaman Chaudhry,
director general of the Pakistan weather office said by
telephone from Islamabad today.  
 The floods, which swept through villages and farmland in
northwestern  Khyber Pakhtunkhwa  last week, inundated Punjab and
entered the southern province of Sindh yesterday, are the worst
to hit Pakistan in 80 years, according to Unicef. More than
1,500 people died, according to the Edhi Rescue Service.  
 The area most at risk in Sindh lies between the cities of
Sukkur and Thatta, which are about 340 kilometers (210 miles)
apart and where 1.5 million people in 2,000 villages may be
affected, according to the provincial government. The army has
been deployed to help evacuate people.  
 Floodwaters demolished homes and bridges and swept away
major roads across Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab, and crops
across the nation were damaged. The floods first struck the
western province of Baluchistan on July 22.  
 At least 1.8 million people urgently need regular food
supplies, Amjad Jamal, a spokesman for the United Nations World
Food Programme said by telephone from Peshawar.  
 Skin and respiratory infections and diarrhea are increasing
among displaced people, Doctors Without Borders said in an e-
mailed statement from New York late yesterday. Polluted water
may also cause an outbreak of cholera, it said.  
 Communication networks have been disrupted and ground
access is limited in the northwest because highways and roads
have been destroyed, according to Unicef.  
 Pakistani television networks showed survivors clinging to
trees or debris in muddy, raging mountain rivers. Opposition
leader  Nawaz Sharif , a two-time prime minister, criticized
President  Asif Ali Zardari  for going ahead with a trip to France
and the U.K. this week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        