-- Pemex Postpones Drilling to Test Deep-Water Equipment
-- Carlos Manuel Rodriguez
-- 2010-08-06T14:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/pemex-postpones-drilling-deepest-well-in-gulf-of-mexico-to-test-equipment.html

          
          
             Petroleos Mexicanos, Latin America’s
largest oil company, will postpone drilling a well in the Gulf
of Mexico that would be its deepest ever while it tries out new
equipment in a shallower project, a company executive said.  
 The Mexico City-based company will first use a new
exploratory deepwater rig at the Tulipau-1 prospect, in waters
700 meters (2,300 feet) deep,  Carlos Morales , director of
exploration and production, said in an interview late yesterday.
The Bicentenario rig will then drill the 2,600-meter Maximino by
April, five months later than planned, he said.  
 Pemex is looking to deepwater finds, where the company
estimates it may have 30 billion barrels of oil, to offset
output declines at Cantarell, the world’s third-largest field
when it was discovered in 1976. The company does not expect to
defer deepwater drilling plans after the oil spill at BP Plc’s
Macondo well, the world’s worst accidental leak, Morales said.  
 “We had not identified Tulipau as a prospect when the
company intended to use the new rig in Maximino first,” Morales
said in a phone interview from Mexico City. Pemex’s other
“deepwater exploration projects continue as planned,” he said.  
 The company is starting drilling its deepest well so far,
Pikilis, next week in Gulf waters 1,900 meters deep. The
Maximino well is on the Mexican side of El Perdido, 18 miles
south of the U.S.-Mexico maritime border.  
 Performance-based Contracts  
 Pemex is crafting oil service agreements that will
initially be offered for mature fields, as soon as next month. A
second round of these performance-based contracts, to develop
deepwater projects, may be offered by year end or in 2011, Pemex
Chief Executive Officer Suarez Coppel, said May 26.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc  said July 29 it plans to resume
output at its  Perdido project , the world’s deepest working oil
field, in October as the U.S. moratorium on drilling in the Gulf
of Mexico cuts production.  
 BP finished a cement plug at the top of the Macondo well,
sealing off the source of about 4.9 million barrels of oil that
leaked after an April rig explosion. The company needs to drill
a relief well to inject cement at the base of the well to
permanently seal it.  
 Pemex is creating performance-based contracts to reward
private contractors that produce the most at its fields. The
company may spend more than $19 billion this year if the new
contracts are ready for more projects, Suarez Coppel said.  
 International Oil Daily reported today that drilling on the
Maximino well won’t start until Mexico’s National Hydrocarbons
Commission, or CNH, has conducted a technical assessment of
Pemex’s deepwater projects to ensure the company can avoid a
disaster like the BP spill.  
 Tougher Rules  
 The regulator is considering introducing tougher rules and
requiring more complex blowout preventers, the pressure valve
whose failure may have triggered the BP spill, the newsletter
reported, citing CNH President  Juan Carlos Zepeda , who spoke in
Washington, D.C. yesterday.  
 “Once BP gets the spill and clean-up under control the rig
market will stabilize,” Morales said. “Now is too early and
very unstable to get a true sense if deep-water exploration
costs are going to change.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos M. Rodriguez  in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pemex postpones drilling to test deep-water equipment  
                       
                         
                           Susana Gonzalez/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Petroleos Mexicanos Miguel Hidalgo oil refinery stands at night in Tula de Allende, Mexico. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Petroleos Mexicanos Miguel Hidalgo oil refinery stands at night in Tula de Allende, Mexico. Photographer: Susana Gonzalez/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pemex CEO Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  
                       
                         
                           Gustavo Graf/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pemex CEO Juan Jose Suarez Coppel. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pemex CEO Juan Jose Suarez Coppel. Photographer: Gustavo Graf/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
