-- Gross Says Fed Rate Low for 2 to 3 Years, Jobs Gone: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-08-06T15:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/pimco-s-gross-says-fed-isn-t-likely-to-raise-rates-for-two-to-three-years.html

          
          
             Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said the  Federal Reserve  is unlikely to raise  interest rates  for two to three years as it seeks to keep the
economy from slipping back into recession.  
 Treasury two-year note yields dropped below 0.50 percent
for the first time today after the Labor Department said the
economy lost more jobs in July than economists forecast. The
difference in yields between 2- and 10-year notes is 2.33
percentage points, more than double the average of 1.11 percent
for the so-called yield curve over the past 20 years. The spread
reached a record 2.94 percent on Feb. 18.  
 “When you analyze that portion of the curve, it says the
Fed is on hold for a long, long time,” Gross, said today during
a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“When you get down to 50 basis points on two-years, that’s
giving you a signal that there’s not much left on the table.”  
 Gross, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, has been
benefitting from the steep yield curve by buying five-year
Treasuries, holding them for a year before selling to pick up  capital appreciation  as well as interest income. His $239
billion Total Return Fund, which is attracting almost $1 billion
a week from investors, has returned 13 percent in the past 12
months, beating 71 percent of its peers, Bloomberg data show.  
 “Hopefully as long as the curve stays steep and as long as
the Fed stays where it is, then you produce two- to two-and-a-
half returns as opposed to 50 basis points,” Gross said.  
 Betting Against Deflation  
 The Fed has maintained a range of zero to 0.25 percent for
its benchmark rate for overnight loans between since December
2008 to encourage the economic recovery. Policy makers next meet
on Aug. 10.  
 The two-year note yield fell two basis points to 0.51
percent after dropping to 0.4977 percent, the lowest level since
the Treasury began regular sales of the securities in 1975. The
10-year note yield touched 2.82 percent, the lowest level since
April 2009.  
 Gross, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , said the
benchmark 10-year note’s yield probably won’t fall below 2
percent and that equity markets have priced against deflation.  
 “What the market really thinks is that for the next two to
three years, the Fed doesn’t do anything, but then magically
nominal GDP and inflation reappear,” he said.  
 Jobs Report  
 Companies in the U.S. added workers in July for a seventh
straight month at a pace that suggests the labor-market recovery
will be slow to take hold.  
 Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by
71,000, less than forecast, after a gain of 31,000 in June that
was smaller than previously reported, Labor Department figures
in  Washington  showed today. Economists projected a 90,000 rise
in private jobs, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. Overall employment fell 131,000 and the jobless
rate held at 9.5 percent.  
 “The jobs that were will not be coming back and the
unemployment rate of 4.5 percent is really a fiction of the
levered era as opposed to the reality of the new normal,” Gross
said.  
 An overdependence on debt has the global economy entering a
period of fundamental transformation that Gross, 66, calls the
“new normal.” Pimco says mounting deficits and tighter
financial regulation will dampen growth in the U.S. and the euro
zone for the next three to five years. Excessive leverage led to
over-employment in finance, mortgage, investment banking and
government jobs, Gross said.  
 Industrial Policy  
 The U.S. economy faces long term structural unemployment
near 7 percent, according Gross, which makes “a significant
statement about the future of the  U.S. economy  and the safety
nets that will be necessary for it.”  
 U.S. lawmakers need to institute some kind of industrial
policy or state-oriented capitalism after promoting consumption
and extending  unemployment benefits , Gross said. Specific
measures should be directed at investments in infrastructure,
reeducation and green energy instead of “pushing money into the
consumption hole,” he said.  
 “What they really need to do is hearken back to something
like the CCC (Civilian Conservation Corps) or the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation, something that sounds so old that it isn’t
applicable to the modern era, but really would keep and put
people back to work in a specifically directed area,” Gross
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in New York at 
 Akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas R. Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bill Gross  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Bill Gross, chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., poses for a photograph in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Bill Gross, chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., poses for a photograph in New York.  Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Gross, manager of the world's biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks about the outlook for the U.S. unemployment rate and the need for U.S. policy changes.
     Gross, speaking with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Surveillance," also discusses investment strategy. (This is an excerpt of the full interview. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
