-- Pound Rebounds, Approaches $1.60 After U.S. Job Losses Exceed Estimates
-- Keith Jenkins
-- 2010-08-06T15:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/pound-rebounds-approaches-1-60-after-u-s-job-losses-exceed-estimates.html

          
          
             The pound jumped to a six-month high
against the dollar, capping its fourth straight weekly gain,
after a report showed the U.S. economy lost more jobs than
analysts estimated last month.  
 The U.K. currency, which came within 0.01 cent of $1.60,
slipped against the euro. U.S. nonfarm payrolls fell by 131,000
in July, compared with a median forecast of a 65,000 decline in
a Bloomberg News survey of 84 economists. The data fueled
speculation that a fragile recovery may force the Federal
Reserve to provide more economic stimulus, and sent the dollar
down against most of the world’s major currencies.  
 “Sterling recovered after the weaker-than-expected labor
data,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The data weighed on the
dollar and will increase speculation the Fed may ease policy
further. It paints a labor market in distress. Sterling may
consolidate around $1.60.”  
 The pound gained 0.6 percent to $1.5993 at 4:23 p.m. in
London and reached $1.5999, the highest since Feb. 3. It had
slipped to $1.5840 before the U.S. job report. Sterling has
gained 1.9 percent against the dollar this week.  
 The U.K. currency was down 0.2 percent at 83.18 pence per
euro. Sterling has fallen less than 0.1 percent this week
against the 16-nation single currency. It reached 82.55 pence on
Aug. 2, the strongest since July 5.  
 The pound weakened earlier after a report from the Office
for National Statistics showed industrial production declined
0.5 percent in June from the previous month. Economists
predicted a 0.1 percent gain, the median of 27 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey shows. From a year earlier, industrial
production rose 1.3 percent.  
 Manufacturing Report  
 U.K. manufacturing increased for a second month in June.
Output climbed 0.3 percent from the previous month, when it rose
by the same amount, the ONS said. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 0.4 percent.  
 A separate report from the statistics office today showed
producer prices rose 0.1 percent in July from the previous month
and were 5 percent higher on the year. Economists forecast no
change on the month, according to the median of 17 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The pound has risen 5.1 percent in the past month against
the dollar as investors bet Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plans
to cut the budget deficit will preserve the U.K.’s AAA debt
rating without impairing the economic recovery.  
 Bank Split  
 The Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor  Mervyn King , left the bank rate at a record low 0.5
percent yesterday as officials maintained emergency assistance
for the economy during the biggest budget squeeze since World
War II. It kept the size of its asset purchase program at 200
billion pounds ($318 billion).  
 Policy makers are starting to split on monetary policy as
an economic recovery fuels concern that inflation may
accelerate. While  Andrew Sentance  voted for higher rates at the
two meetings prior to yesterday’s, King said July 28 there’s a
“considerable” way to go before rates return to “normal.”  
 Inflation has exceeded the bank’s 2 percent target since
December. The Bank of England will publish its quarterly
inflation report on Aug. 11, while minutes of yesterday’s MPC
meeting will be published on Aug. 18.  
 Sentance Speculation  
 “We haven’t got any clues at this stage whether Sentance
decided to vote for a hike, or more importantly, whether anybody
joined him,” said  Adam Cole , head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “The evolution of
the way the MPC votes will be more interesting than the outcomes
for quite a few months.”  
 Government bonds erased earlier declines. The 10-year gilt
yield was little changed at 3.23 percent after rising to 3.27
percent. It fell to 3.22 percent, the lowest since April 21,
2009, according to Bloomberg generic data. The yield declined
ten basis points this week.  
 The two-year yield fell two basis points to 0.78 percent,
an increase of one basis point on the week.  
 Gilts returned 6.8 percent this year, compared with 7.1
percent for German government bonds and 6.7 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        