-- Pound Pares Weekly Gain Before U.S. Jobs Data as U.K. Industry Contracts
-- Keith Jenkins
-- 2010-08-06T10:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/pound-heads-for-weekly-advance-against-the-dollar-before-u-s-payroll-data.html

          
          
             The pound slipped, paring its
fourth straight weekly gain versus the dollar, as British data
showed industrial production fell in June and investors
anticipated a U.S. report that may show a stronger job market.  
 The U.K. currency, which reached a six-month high against
the dollar three days ago, was little changed against the euro.
U.S. nonfarm payrolls probably fell by 65,000 last month, the
median forecast of 84 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
shows, though private payrolls that exclude government agencies
likely rose.  
 “The upmove in sterling appears to be running out of
steam, and we may consolidate around $1.60,” said  Lee Hardman ,
a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
London. “All eyes are on today’s nonfarm payrolls report, which
may support a stronger dollar by easing concerns over renewed
monetary easing by the Fed.”  
 The pound fell 0.2 percent to $1.5860 at 11:39 a.m. in
London. Sterling rose to $1.5969 on Aug. 3, the highest level
since Feb. 3. The U.K. currency was at 83.09 pence per euro,
from 82.98 pence yesterday. It reached 82.55 pence on Aug. 2,
the strongest since July 5.  
 Industrial production declined 0.5 percent in June from the
previous month, the Office for National Statistics said today.
Economists predicted a 0.1 percent gain, the median of 27
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey shows. From a year earlier,
industrial production rose 1.3 percent.  
 Manufacturing Report  
 U.K. manufacturing increased for a second month in June.
Output climbed 0.3 percent from the previous month, when it rose
by the same amount, the ONS said. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 0.4 percent.  
 A separate report from the statistics office today showed
producer prices rose 0.1 percent in July from the previous month
and were 5 percent higher on the year. Economists forecast no
change on the month, according to the median of 17 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The pound has risen 4.7 percent in the past month against
the dollar as investors bet Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s plans
to cut the budget deficit will preserve the U.K.’s AAA debt
rating without impairing the economic recovery.  
 The Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor  Mervyn King , left the bank rate at a record low 0.5
percent yesterday as officials maintained emergency assistance
for the economy during the biggest budget squeeze since World
War II. It kept the size of its asset purchase program at 200
billion pounds ($318 billion).  
 Bank Split  
 Policy makers are starting to split on monetary policy as
an economic recovery fuels concern that inflation may
accelerate. While  Andrew Sentance  voted for higher rates at the
two meetings prior to yesterday’s, King said July 28 there’s a
“considerable” way to go before rates return to “normal.”  
 Inflation has exceeded the bank’s 2 percent target since
December. The Bank of England will publish its quarterly
inflation report on Aug. 11, while minutes of yesterday’s MPC
meeting will be published on Aug. 18.  
 “We haven’t got any clues at this stage whether Sentance
decided to vote for a hike, or more importantly, whether anybody
joined him,” said  Adam Cole , head of global foreign-exchange
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “The evolution of
the way the MPC votes will be more interesting than the outcomes
for quite a few months.”  
 Government bonds fell, pushing the 10-year gilt yield three
basis points higher to 3.26 percent. The yield declined seven
basis points this week. It fell to 3.23 percent yesterday, the
lowest since April 21, 2009, according to Bloomberg generic
data.  
 The two-year yield gained one basis point to 0.8 percent,
an increase of three basis points on the week.  
 Gilts returned 6.8 percent this year, compared with 7.1
percent for German government bonds and 6.7 percent for U.S.
Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        