-- Traders Pedal Two Days Across Massachusetts Raising $31 Million for Cancer
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-08-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/traders-pedal-two-days-across-massachusetts-raising-31-million-for-cancer.html

          
          
             Eric Savitz  has been careful not
to disturb his two daughters when he wakes at sunrise to
train on his bike.  
 Savitz, a managing partner at Greenwich Prime Trading
Group LLC, spent almost a year preparing for this weekend’s
31st annual  Pan Massachusetts Challenge , a charity bike-a-
thon that’s raised $270 million for cancer research.  
 The two-day event brought in more than $30 million
last year, up from $10,600 in its first year, and has
become increasingly popular in the New England financial
community, organizers said. One team in the 5,200-rider
field -- the  ConvergEx Cyclers  -- will ring the Opening
Bell at the New York Stock Exchange today and the Nasdaq
Stock Market’s Closing Bell on Tuesday.  
 “It’s something I wanted to do since losing my uncle
seven years ago to lung cancer,” Savitz, 35, who lives in
Westchester County, New York, said in a telephone
interview. “I had been a supporter in past years, donating
to the cause, and now I wanted to be a participant.”  
 The  Pan Massachusetts Challenge  was founded in 1980 by
executive director Billy Starr, who lost his mother, Betty,
to melanoma. Thirty-six cyclists rode that year and donated
the money they raised to the  Jimmy Fund , which was founded
in 1948 and has raised more than $600 million to support
cancer research and care at Boston’s  Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute .  
 $31 Million Target  
 Starting tomorrow, riders from 36 states and eight
countries aim to raise more than $31 million, all of it
going directly to the Jimmy Fund. More than 3,000
volunteers help coordinate the event and expenses are fully
covered by sponsors such as the Boston  Red Sox Foundation 
and  New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc .  
 Promotional sponsors include  Merrill Lynch & Co.,   RBC
Capital Markets  and ConvergEx Group LLC, the New York-based
brokerage and trading-software firm that has a corporate
team for the fourth year.  
 “There was no business plan when I started this, it
was more blue collar,” said Starr. “Now we have support
from so many people. The financial sector is very well-
represented.”  
 Starr, 59, said New England’s financial community is
only part of the reason his event has become such a
success, accounting for 62 percent of the annual revenue of
the Jimmy Fund. The main reason is the mission.  
 Graduate Rider  
 “Unfortunately, cancer is part of everyone’s
story,” says Starr, an avid outdoorsman who planned to
backpack around the world after graduating from college in
Colorado. His mother’s death, when he was 25, changed that.  
 While the event isn’t a race, many participants --
from weekend warriors to trained triathletes -- put in
extensive preparation. There are 10 routes that range
between 47 miles and the full 190-mile ride from
Sturbridge, Massachusetts, to Provincetown, at the tip of
Cape Cod. Seventy percent of entrants will ride the full
distance and raise an average of $6,700.  
 Massachusetts senators  John Kerry , a Democrat, and
 Scott Brown , a Republican, are riding in a 110-mile leg
this weekend. Kerry, 66, is participating for the seventh
time and is honoring Senator  Edward Kennedy , who died Aug.
25 of brain cancer. Brown, 50, is riding in the event for
the first time.  
 12th Ride  
 Ed Gallagher  is a senior vice president for ConvergEx
and is riding for the 12th time. The 52-year-old Westfield,
New Jersey, resident is the ConvergEx Cyclers team leader
and first participated in 1999 after his sister Eileen was
diagnosed with breast cancer. She died in 2005.  
 “My first year I was intimidated by the fundraising,
but I shared my story and checks came flying in,” said
Gallagher, who raised $11,000 in his first ride. “A lot of
people had similar stories, but many weren’t willing to
ride 200 miles. I was their way to contribute to the
cause.”  
 Training with colleagues and members of his local
riding club, Gallagher said he rode an average of 150 miles
a week last month on his 4-year-old Trek Project One bike.
It’s adorned with U.S. Postal Service stickers and is
similar to the one ridden several years back by  Lance Armstrong , the seven-time Tour de France winner.  
 Gallagher said his team likes to ride fast and plans
to “put the hammer down” this weekend.  
 20-Year-Old Bike  
 Savitz, speaking from his office in Greenwich,
Connecticut, said until last September he hadn’t
“seriously” ridden a bike in almost 15 years. He replaced
his 20-year-old Cannondale with a new model and rode up to
230 miles per week during the peak of his training.  
 “There are a lot of people that ride complete pieces
of junk that you wouldn’t think could go 100 miles,”
Savitz said. “But you really have to step up the training
to make it an enjoyable weekend.”  
 Starr says the feedback he gets from participants most
often is about how well the event is run -- from the safety
of the route to the support they get from volunteers and
fans lining the roads along the way.  
 “People say, ‘I wish my business worked like this,’
said Starr, who now consults on other charity cycling
events around the country. “It’s a wonderful metaphor for
what happens when people work together.”  
 Gallagher says while he prepares new members of his
team for the event from a logistical standpoint, the ride
itself is one they have to experience for themselves.  
 “These are two of the biggest days you can have on a
bike,” Gallagher said. “The camaraderie with the riders
is fantastic. There are people along the whole route
congratulating you and thanking you. It’s so inspiring that
you really don’t even feel tired.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Cyclists are seen taking part in the Pan Massachusetts Challenge. Source: Teak Media Communications via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Traders Pedal Two Days Across Massachusetts  
                       
                         
                           Teak Media Communications via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Billy Starr, executive director of the Pan Massachusetts Challenge. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Billy Starr, executive director of the Pan Massachusetts Challenge. Source: Teak Media Communications via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
