-- Rand Strengthens Versus Dollar After U.S. Payroll Data Boosts Carry Appeal
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-08-06T15:28:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/rand-slumps-to-worst-among-emerging-market-currencies-on-reserve-data.html

          
          
             The rand strengthened after worse-
than-estimated U.S. payrolls data boosted speculation the
Federal Reserve will leave its main interest rate at a record
low for longer, boosting the appeal of higher-yielding assets.  
 South Africa’s currency appreciated as much as 0.7 percent
against the dollar to 7.1993 before trading 0.2 percent up at
7.2324 by 4:53 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of
7.2483. The move extended the rand’s fifth weekly advance versus
the dollar to 0.9 percent.  
 Overall U.S. employment fell 131,000 in July, Labor
Department data showed, compared with a drop of 65,000 forecast
in a Bloomberg survey. Private payrolls excluding government
agencies added fewer workers than forecast in the month and
unemployment in the world’s biggest economy held at 9.5 percent,
sending the dollar to an eight-month low against the yen.  
 “Investors are factoring in that the Fed won’t be in a
hurry to raise interest rates any time soon,” said  Nigel Rendell , an emerging-market strategist at RBC Capital in London.
“That’s boosting high-yielders like the rand a little bit. Even
if we see rate cuts in South Africa the yield still compares
favorably with next-to-nothing you get in the U.S.”  
 South Africa’s 6.5 percent  benchmark rate  makes the rand an
attractive purchase for so-called carry trades, which involve
borrowing in countries with low rates to invest in markets
offering better returns. Foreign investors have been net
purchasers of almost 80 billion rand ($11.1 billion) of South
African stocks and bonds this year, according to data from the
JSE Ltd., which operates the nation’s exchanges.  
 Government Bonds  
 Interest rates of 0.1 percent in Japan and 0.25 percent in
the U.S. make the yen and dollar popular funding currencies for
carry trades.  
 Government bonds rose for a second day in South Africa,
with the benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015
adding 16 cents to 124.46 rand. The yield on the bond declined
almost 4 basis points to 7.60 percent.  
 The rand slid as much as 0.5 percent against the dollar
earlier today after a report showed South Africa boosted dollar
purchases to stem gains in the currency. The gold and foreign
currency reserves increased for a second month in July, climbing
2.3 percent to $43.2 billion, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank 
said on its website today. The National Treasury increased its
foreign-currency deposits with the central bank by $480 million
last month after adding $661 million in June, the data shows.  
 ‘Healthy Dollop’  
 “Treasury bought another healthy dollop of dollars,”
 Standard Bank Group Ltd.  analysts  Michael Keenan  and Tebogo
Mosepele, wrote in a research note today. “South African
authorities are buying a lot more dollars these days and, given
that this trend is likely to intensify, we regard the July
reserves as rand negative.”  
 The report pushed the rand to worst performer against the
euro among emerging markets in Europe, the Middle-East and
Africa. The rand declined as much as 1.1 percent versus the euro
to 9.6416 and traded 0.9 percent down at 9.628 by 5:13 p.m. in
Johannesburg, from a previous close of 9.5387.  
 The  Congress of South African Trade Unions  has joined
forces with manufacturers including  ArcelorMittal South Africa
Ltd.  to call for a weaker rand, which it blames for stalling the
economic recovery and worsening unemployment. The Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development last month urged policy
makers to boost foreign-currency purchases to stem the rand’s
almost 30 percent surge since the start of 2009.  
 Money-market investors maintained bets that South Africa’s
central bank will reduce its main interest rate at its next
meeting on Sept. 9, forward-rate agreements show. The cost of
 three-month contracts for cash in three months  was steady at
6.23 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        