-- RBS Posts First Profit Since 2007 as Bad Loans Tumble
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-08-06T15:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/rbs-unexpectedly-reports-first-profit-in-three-years-as-bad-loans-decline.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, swung into profit for
the first time since 2007 as it cut bad-loan provisions and
writedowns on credit market investments.  
 Net income was 9 million pounds ($14 million) in the first
six months of the year, compared with a loss of 1.04 billion
pounds a year earlier, the Edinburgh-based bank said in a
statement. That beat the 47 million-pound loss that was the
median estimate of six  analysts  in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “RBS wasn’t just the U.K.’s worst bank, they were the
world’s worst bank,” said  Ralph Silva , a strategist at London-
based Silva Research Network, which provides research to
financial companies. “So any return to profitability should be
applauded.”  
 RBS joins rivals including Europe’s biggest bank,  HSBC
Holdings Plc , Lloyds Banking Group Plc,  Deutsche Bank AG ,
Germany’s biggest lender, and BNP Paribas SA in reporting
falling bad-loan provisions.  RBS  last reported a profit at the
end of 2007, after which it needed 45.5 billion pounds of
taxpayer-supplied capital during 2008 and 2009, in the world’s
biggest bank bailout.  
 The bank set aside 2.36 billion pounds less for souring
loans in the first half of 2010, a 31 percent decline compared
with a year earlier. RBS was also helped by falling trading
losses on investments including asset-backed products, “credit
exotics” and assets covered by monoline insurers, which were
cut by about or 97 percent over the same period, it said.  
 ‘Not Triumphalist’  
 The bank  fell  1.7 percent to 51.1 pence at the close of
London trading at 4:35 p.m. for a market value of 55.7 billion
pounds, the second-biggest decline in the five-member FTSE 350
 Index  of U.K. banks.  
 “We are not trying to be triumphalist, we are not trying
to get ahead of ourselves,” Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said during a conference call with journalists today.
“We do think there is lots of work to do and that progress will
not be linear.”  
 Net interest income rose to 7.22 billion pounds from 6.86
billion pounds as margins widened.  
 “Everybody knows that bad debts are high and are coming
down, but it’s now about margins,” said  Bruce Packard , an
analyst at Seymour Pierce in London, who has a “sell” rating
on the stock. “What people want to know is whether banks can
raise their prices.”  
 U.K. Banks Profit  
 Total operating profit at the so-called core units, those
the bank plans to keep, fell by 26 percent to 4.47 billion
pounds. The operating loss at the “non-core” division narrowed
to 2.88 billion pounds from a loss of 9.36 billion pounds.  
 Operating profit after impairments at the core U.K.
consumer and commercial units increased to 1.12 billion pounds
from 443 million pounds, while it dropped 44 percent to 2.55
billion pounds at the securities unit.  
 Ulster Bank widened its loss to 314 million pounds from 8
million pounds, the bank said. “We would expect to see high
levels of impairments continuing for the foreseeable future in
that segment,” Finance Director  Bruce Van Saun  said on the call
with reporters.  
 RBS , 83 percent government owned, posted losses of 26
billion pounds in 2008 and 2009, meaning the bank was on average
losing about 36 million pounds a day during that two-year
period.  
 All the U.K.’s biggest banks are now in profit for the
first time since the end of 2007, four months after the subprime
crisis struck global financial markets. HSBC,  Lloyds , Barclays
Plc and  Northern Rock Asset Management Plc  all reported a first
half profit this week.  
 ‘Quietly Confident’  
 “RBS has brought the half year reporting season to a close
in quietly confident fashion,” said  Richard Hunter , Head of UK
Equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers. “The themes it
described are similar to its competitors this week, most notably
a marked improvement in the impairment situation, coupled with a
more challenging environment in investment banking.”  
 Hester said that he is “cautious” on the outlook for the
investment bank in the second half of the year. After a slowdown
in May and June because of the sovereign debt crisis, he said
there had been no pick up in July.  
 “In terms of clients, we haven’t yet seen an improvement
and we are getting into the quiet times of August,” Hester
said. “If clients are uncertain and sit on their hands, you
make less money in investment banking.”  
 The U.K. government had about a 3 billion pound profit on
its investment in RBS at the close of trading yesterday. The
stake will not be sold before next year’s report on the case for
separating retail and investment banks, the government has said.  
 RBS said total assets climbed 4 percent to 1.52 trillion
pounds, meaning that the bank’s balance sheet is larger than the
U.K.’s gross domestic product.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       RBS posts first profit since 2007  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Royal Bank of Scotland logo hangs outside a branch in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Royal Bank of Scotland logo hangs outside a branch in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Stovin-Bradford of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team discusses Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc's first-half profit reported today.
     The U.K.'s biggest government-owned lender posted net income of 9 million pounds ($14 million), its first profit since 2007. Stovin-Bradford talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stephen Hester, CEO of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “The rebuilding of RBS is a marathon and not a sprint,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester said in the statement. “There is, of course, plenty left to do.” 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “The rebuilding of RBS is a marathon and not a sprint,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester said in the statement. “There is, of course, plenty left to do.” Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
