-- RBS Investment Banking Unit's Revenue Drops 30% Following Sovereign Crisis
-- Ambereen Choudhury
-- 2010-08-06T10:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/rbs-investment-banking-unit-s-revenue-drops-30-following-sovereign-crisis.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
investment banking unit posted a 30 percent decline in revenue
in the first-half, as income from trading bonds and currencies
dwindled during the sovereign debt crisis.  
 Sales at the Edinburgh-based lender’s global banking and
markets unit dropped to 5 billion pounds ($7.9 billion) in the
first six months from 7.2 billion pounds in the year-earlier
period, RBS said in a statement today. Equities revenue also
fell as the crisis sapped demand for stock offerings, RBS said.  
 The Scottish lender follows Barclays Plc and  HSBC Holdings
Plc  in posting a drop in revenue at its securities unit.
Barclays Capital said yesterday first-half revenue fell 32
percent, while HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, said this week
revenue at its global banking and markets unit declined 12
percent.  
 “The problem the banks face as they move towards 2011 is
that the outlook for investment banking earnings is not
particularly exciting,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at
Mediobanca Securities in London, who covers investment banks.
“Investment banking earnings will continue to weigh on any
bank’s valuations.”  
 This week’s results contrast with the same period in 2009
when Barclays, HSBC and RBS posted a rebound in investment
banking revenue as governments injected capital into the
financial system to thaw lending markets after the credit
crisis.  
 Revenue from lenders’ securities units tumbled in 2010 as
investors questioned the health of the region’s financial
institutions after the debt crisis pummeled the bonds of Greece,
Spain and Portugal.  
 ‘Increased Risk Aversion’  
 “All fixed income and currency products saw a reduction in
revenue during the second quarter, reflecting a drop in market
liquidity as customer flows declined on increased risk
aversion,” RBS said in the statement.  
 Barclays Capital said first-half revenue fell to 7.12
billion pounds.  HSBC Holdings Plc  said revenue at its securities
unit fell to $10.8 billion.  
 In mergers and acquisitions, the second quarter was marked
by the collapse of Prudential Plc’s $35.5 billion takeover of
American International Group Inc.’s AIA unit, the biggest
acquisition announced this year. The MSCI World Index posted a
13 percent decline in the second quarter, its biggest quarterly
loss since the end of 2008, prompting companies to hoard cash
and making June the slowest month for deals since July 2009.  
 There was “more volatility on the investment banking side,
but it was in line with other competitors in the market,” RBS
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said on a conference call
with reporters today. “The nature of the investment banking
business is that it’s hard to look ahead. We are cautious” on
the outlook for the second half, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        