-- RBS Sells WorldPay to Advent, Bain for $2.7 Billion
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-08-06T15:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/rbs-will-sell-80-stake-in-worldpay-unit-to-advent-bain-for-2-7-billion.html

          
          
             Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the
U.K.’s biggest government-owned bank, agreed to sell its credit-
card payment processing unit to Advent International Corp. and
Bain Capital LLC for 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7 billion).  
 RBS may receive a further 200 million pounds if the buyers’
returns hit certain targets, the Edinburgh-based bank said in a
statement today. RBS will keep a 20 percent stake. It will also
book a gain from the sale of about 850 million pounds after
goodwill, separation and transaction costs, the bank said.  
 RBS is being forced to dispose of the unit to comply with
European Union state-aid rules after taking 45.5 billion pounds
in a taxpayer-funded rescue during the financial crisis. The
bank announced this week the sale of 318 branches to  Banco
Santander SA  to comply with the ruling, and must also dispose of
its insurance division.  
 Today’s sale “is another significant milestone in the
Group’s restructuring program,” finance director  Bruce Van Saun 
said in the statement. The sale values the unit, Global Merchant
Services, at about 2.03 billion pounds, including debt.  
 Private equity firms such as Advent and Bain are seeking to
invest more than $500 billion of cash they’ve raised from
investors as the world economy emerges from recession, according
to London-based research firm Preqin Ltd.  
 Tomkins Buyout  
 The purchase is the second-largest leveraged buyout
announced in Europe this year after Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and Onex Corp.’s purchase of Britain’s  Tomkins
Plc  for 2.89 billion pounds last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In all, private equity firms have
announced $78 billion of takeovers this year, double the amount
in the year-earlier period, Bloomberg data show.  
 The division, also known as RBS WorldPay, generated
operating profit of 249 million pounds in 2009 and employs about
2,560 people, RBS said. It’s Europe’s largest payment processor
and the fourth largest in the U.S., the bank said.  
 “Advent and Bain will be making a very significant
investment in the company to enhance its technology and expand
the range of products and services offered to merchants,”  James Brocklebank , managing director at Advent in London, said in the
statement.  
 Advent, the manager of a 6.6 billion-euro ($8.8 billion)
leveraged buyout fund, has no intention of combining WorldPay
with U.S. payment processor Fifth Third Processing Solutions,
Brocklebank said in an interview today. The Boston-based private
equity firm acquired a 51 percent stake in the company last year
from Fifth Third Bancorp, Ohio’s largest lender.  
 The two firms, which will each own about 40 percent of
WorldPay, are financing the purchase with loans from RBS,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., UBS AG, Barclays Plc and Morgan
Stanley, according to  Robin Marshall , a managing director at
Bain Capital.  
 The firms are using about 1 billion pounds of loans to fund
the purchase, according to three people familiar with the talks,
who declined to be identified because the terms are private.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A branch of RBS  
                       
                         
                           Simon Dawson/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An employee walks into a Royal Bank of Scotland branch in London. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An employee walks into a Royal Bank of Scotland branch in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Stovin-Bradford of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team discusses Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc's first-half profit reported today.
     The U.K.'s biggest government-owned lender posted net income of 9 million pounds ($14 million), its first profit since 2007. Stovin-Bradford talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
