-- Real Estate Rebounding as Forward's Beam Shows 46% Return
-- Beth Williams
-- 2010-08-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/real-estate-rebounding-as-forward-s-beam-shows-43-return-with-preferreds.html

          
          
             Joel Beam  stood out as an
undergraduate at the University of California, Berkeley, in the
early 1990s. On a campus where jeans and T-shirts predominated,
he was the one often wearing the coat and tie.  
 Back then, Beam was a humanities major who also had an
interest in real estate. As a freshman, he’d worked part time as
a clerk for a local real estate developer. Then, as a sophomore,
he landed an internship at Liquidity Fund Investment Corp., an
investment firm specializing in distressed real estate
securities.  
 “I remember going into the college placement office and
seeing that ad and thinking this was the best internship I had
ever heard of,” Beam, 39, says. “It was basically like a full-
time, entry-level analyst job.”  
 The gig had Beam rushing from school to work, Bloomberg
Markets reports in its September issue. He would attend classes
on rhetoric dressed in business attire so he could hop on the
bus afterward and get to his job in nearby Emeryville, where
Beam appraised properties and related securities. He ended up
taking a fifth year to complete his course requirements at
Berkeley, and after earning a degree with honors in 1994, he
joined Liquidity Fund full time.  
 Nowadays, Beam still focuses on real estate, aiming to
generate income and steady returns by investing in high-yielding
securities of property companies as the manager of the $1
billion  Forward Select Income Fund .  
 Focus on Preferreds  
 Beam buys mostly preferred shares. “It’s a smaller sector
of the market, and there’s a really nice opportunity that we’ve
had good success at exploiting,” says Beam, who left Liquidity
Fund in 1995 to join former colleagues after they started their
own firm, Kensington Investment Group Inc. San Francisco-based
Forward Management LLC acquired Kensington in June 2009.  
 Beam says that preferreds are an area in which investors
get paid well for the risks they take. “So we’ve been able to
earn pretty good returns,” he says.  
 The Forward Select Income Fund  returned  46 percent in the
12 months ended on Aug. 4, beating 93 percent of its peers.
Buffeted by the U.S. real estate and financial market meltdown
that began in 2007, the  fund  gained 0.49 percent annually during
the five years ended on Aug. 4; in 2009, it surged 75 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Preferred shares combine elements of stock and debt. Like
common shares, they offer the potential for appreciation, while,
similar to bonds, their fixed dividends provide regular income.
Beam’s fund pays a quarterly dividend out of the income it
derives from its preferred holdings. As of Aug. 5, the fund’s
12-month  dividend yield  was 9.45 percent, Bloomberg data shows.  
 Higher Priority  
 While preferred shares rank higher in a company’s capital
structure than common stock -- meaning they have a higher
priority in terms of dividend payments and in case of
liquidation --- they often carry no voting rights and are
subordinate to a company’s bonds. The universe of preferred
stock is also smaller than that of common shares and bonds, and
preferreds don’t trade as frequently.  
 Preferreds issued by real estate investment trusts, or
REITs, are a special case, Beam says, because REITS are required
to distribute 90 percent of their income to investors.  
 “If they plan to stay in business and survive as a REIT,
they’ve got to pay those dividends,” he says.  
 Among Beam’s biggest holdings as of April 30 were preferred
shares of Westlake Village, California-based nursing home
operator LTC Properties Inc. and San Clemente, California-based
Sunstone Hotel Investors Inc.  
 Plugging Away  
 Beam counts LTC among his favorite holdings, given the
company’s  steady earnings  and stable business.  
 “I have owned this preferred for years, and it is pretty
dull, but they just plug away,” Beam says. “The company has
very low leverage. Their rhetoric is excellent in terms of their
desire to honor their preferred and treat it like debt, which is
how we look at it. I just love it.”  
 The real estate preferred market wasn’t immune to the bust
that originated in U.S. housing and went on to roil world
markets. At Kensington, the value of the Select Income Fund’s
assets under management tumbled to $293 million in early 2009
from almost $800 million in mid-2007 as securities slumped
during the credit crisis, Beam says.  
 “Prices were just sinking every day, and there was no bid
for a lot of paper,” he says.  
 Investors value preferred securities the same way they do
bonds, with a higher dividend yield implying a cheaper price. At
the height of the crisis, Beam says, real estate preferred
shares yielded about 14.5 percentage points more than 10-year
Treasury notes. That compares with their pre-crisis low spread
of about 2.25 percentage points.  
 Bargain Hunting  
 Some fund managers were forced to dump holdings to meet
margin calls from lenders.  
 “Our market was all over the place, and so we had an
opportunity to rearrange the portfolio and buy paper that was
trading at levels that we thought we would never see,” Beam
says.  
 Purchases included preferred shares of Indianapolis-based
 Duke Realty Corp. , Denver-based  ProLogis  and Bloomfield Hills,
Michigan-based  Taubman Centers Inc.  “These were fallen-angel
companies in a lot of ways, and they were basically being priced
for worse than default,” Beam says.  
 The Duke preferreds, for instance, traded as low as $6 for
a yield of more than 30 percent in early 2009. They traded at
$26.67 on Aug. 5.  
 While real estate preferreds have rebounded, they still
offer above-average yields, Beam says. As of mid-July, real
estate preferreds yielded about 500 basis points more than 10-
year Treasuries, above their average of 365 basis points during
the 10 years before the financial crisis, he says. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “These are times that we actually start to get excited,”
Beam says. “We always love the product, but when it gets cheap
and we know that the credit is sound, we get very excited.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Williams  in New York at 
 bewilliams@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Joel Beam, portfolio manager at Forward Management LLC  
                       
                         
                           Charlie Nucci/Bloomberg Markets via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Joel Beam, portfolio manager at Forward Management LLC, poses outside his office in San Francisco on June 4, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Joel Beam, portfolio manager at Forward Management LLC, poses outside his office in San Francisco on June 4, 2010. Photographer: Charlie Nucci/Bloomberg Markets via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for the U.S. economy and housing market.
    Consumer spending, pending home sales and factory orders were all weaker than projected in June, showing the U.S. recovery lost momentum heading into the second half of the year as employment stagnates. Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy, were unchanged from May, according to figures from the Commerce Department issued Aug. 3 in Washington. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
