-- Treasuries Fall on Speculation Today's Jobs Report Will Keep Fed on Hold
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-08-06T06:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/treasuries-fall-on-speculation-today-s-jobs-report-will-keep-fed-on-hold.html

          
          
             Treasuries snapped a gain from
yesterday on speculation a U.S. employment report today will
show the Federal Reserve doesn’t need to reduce borrowing costs.  
 Notes failed to extend a July advance as Asian stocks
climbed, eroding demand for the relative safety of government
debt. U.S. job cuts slowed to 65,000 last month from 125,000 in
June, economists said. The figures should damp anticipation the
Fed may buy bonds to spur growth, said National Australia Bank
Ltd. analyst  Peter Jolly . The U.S. was losing more than 700,000
positions a month when the central bank announced in March 2009
plans to buy government debt in so-called quantitative easing.  
 “The economy was in a vastly worse state than now,” said
 Jolly , Sydney-based head of market research for the investment-
banking unit of Australia’s largest lender. “The Fed looks to
be quite a way away from doing quantitative easing again.
Ultimately, Treasury yields have to head higher.”  
 The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose one basis point to 2.91
percent as of 6:51 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market
Data. The 3.5 percent note due in May 2020 dropped 2/32, or 63
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 104 31/32.  
 MSCI’s  Asia Pacific  Index of shares advanced 0.1 percent,
erasing an earlier loss of as much as 03 percent.  
 Treasuries are little changed this month, after rising from
April through July, according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  
 The 10-year yield will climb to 3.24 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weighting. Jolly predicts 3.4 percent.  
 TED Spread  
 Yields indicate investors are becoming more willing to
lend. The TED spread, the difference between what banks and the
U.S. pay to borrow for three months, narrowed to 28 basis
points, the least since May.  
 The three-month London interbank  offered rate  for dollars,
known as Libor, fell for a 17th day yesterday to 0.418 percent.  
 The central bank should resume purchases of Treasury
securities if the economy slows and prices fall, Fed Bank of St.
Louis President  James Bullard  said in a research paper released
on July 29.  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, has narrowed to 1.84 percentage points from
this year’s high of 2.49 percentage points in January.  
 Bond bulls say the pace of economic growth is slow enough
that investors will seek government securities.  
 “The rally has more room to go,” said  Hiromasa Nakamura ,
who helps invest the equivalent of $22.2 billion as a senior
investor in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit of
Japan’s second-largest publicly traded bank. “Today’s number
will not be strong. U.S. consumer spending will decline.”  
 ‘Anemic Recovery’  
 The  savings rate  for American households increased to 6.4
percent in June, the highest level in a year, according to the
Commerce Department.  
 The U.S. economy faces an “anemic recovery” and the
government will need to enact another round of “better
designed” stimulus measures, Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph E. Stiglitz  said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Sydney.  
 U.S. economic growth slowed to 2.4 percent in the second
quarter from 3.7 percent in the first. It will be 2.7 percent in
the July-to-September period and 2.8 percent in the last three
months of the year, a Bloomberg survey of economists shows.  
 Fed Rate  
 The Fed has kept its  target  for overnight bank lending in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to foster the
economic expansion.  
 Treasuries alternated between gains and losses this week.
They rose yesterday as an unexpected increase in initial jobless
claims added to speculation the economic recovery is waning.  
 “The jobless-claims numbers surprised to the downside,
which is spurring some bullish momentum in the Treasury
market,” said  Sergey Bondarchuk , an interest-rate strategist in
New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of the 18 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Fed. “We are going through a weak patch
of data.”  
 The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance rose to 479,000 in the week ended July 31
from a revised 460,000 in the previous seven days, the Labor
Department reported.  
 Government efforts to spur employment will send 10-year
yields higher, according to  Geoff Howie , a senior vice president
at MF Global Singapore Ltd., part of the world’s largest broker
of exchange-traded futures and options.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s plan to double sales of U.S. goods
abroad over the next five years will be one of the leading
initiatives, Howie wrote in a research note today. His target
for the 2020 rate is 3.25 percent, according to the report.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        