-- Treasury Two-Year Yields Drop to Record Low After U.S. Economy Loses Jobs
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-08-06T20:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/treasury-two-year-yields-drop-to-record-low-after-u-s-economy-loses-jobs.html

          
          
             Treasuries rallied, pushing two-year
note  yields  below 0.50 percent for the first time, after the
government’s payrolls report showed the economy lost more jobs
in July than economists forecast.  
 Bonds were headed for a weekly gain as hiring by private
employers trailed estimates from analysts, encouraging
speculation the Federal Reserve may provide more stimulus.  Bill Gross  of Pacific Investment Management Co. said investors should
buy longer-maturity securities, adding that the central bank is
unlikely to raise interest rates for as long as three years.  
 “Everything you look at is much weaker and keeps the same
pro-Treasury sentiment,” said  Thomas Tucci , head of U.S.
government bond trading in New York at Royal Bank of Canada, one
of the 18 primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.
“There will be much more discussion about another round of
quantitative easing.”  
 The yield on the 10-year note decreased eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.82 percent at 4:04 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.5
percent security maturing in May 2020 climbed 22/32, or $6.88
per $1,000 face amount, to 105 23/32.  
 The 2-year note yield slid three basis points to 0.51
percent, extending its weekly drop to five basis points, after
falling to the all-time low of 0.4977 percent. The 10-year note
yield touched 2.8130 percent, the lowest since April 2009. The
5-year note  yield  dropped 10 basis points to 1.50 percent after
reaching 1.4851 percent, the lowest since January 2009.  
 Yield Curve  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year notes
instead of 2-year debt dropped five basis points to 232 basis
points. It fell to 227.5 basis points on July 1, the narrowest
spread since October.  
 “When you get down to 50 basis points on two-years, that’s
giving you a signal that there’s not much left on the table,”
said Gross, founder and co-chief investment officer at Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “So the extension
out on the yield curve is what we’ve been attempting over the
past several weeks and the past several months.”  
 Manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, Gross has been
buying five-year Treasuries and holding them for a year before
selling to pick up capital appreciation as well as interest
income. His $239 billion Total Return Fund, which is attracting
almost $1 billion a week from investors, has returned 13 percent
in the past 12 months, beating 71 percent of its peers,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Drop in Stocks  
 Stocks, crude oil and the dollar fell after the payrolls
report added to evidence that the economic recovery is stalling.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lost 0.4 percent, paring its
weekly gain to 1.8 percent. Crude oil for September delivery
dropped 1.4 percent to $80.64 a barrel. The dollar touched a
level weaker than $1.33 per euro for the first time since May 3.  
 “The markets are correct to be pessimistic about economic
growth going forward,” said  Gary Pollack , who helps oversee
$12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank
AG’s private wealth management unit in New York. “We’ll
continue to set new lows on two-year yields for the next month
or so.”  
 St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  wrote in a paper
released last week that the central bank should resume purchases
of Treasuries if the economy slows and prices fall and that
“the U.S. is getting closer to a Japanese-style outcome than
any time in recent history.” Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said in a Bloomberg News interview that calls for more
Fed stimulus are premature.  
 Fed’s Bond Buying  
 The central bank used purchases of Treasury, housing-agency
and mortgage-backed securities to spur growth after cutting the
target lending rate for overnight lending to a range of zero to
0.25 percent in 2008. The Fed’s asset purchases increased the
size of its balance sheet to a  record  $2.35 trillion in May from
$900 billion two years earlier.  
 Traders reduced bets the Fed will increase borrowing costs
next year. Futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a 32
percent chance the central bank will raise its benchmark rate by
at least a quarter-percentage point by the August 2011 meeting,
compared with 49 percent odds a week ago. Policy makers meet
next week on Aug. 10.  
 The Fed is unlikely to raise interest rates for two to
three years as policy makers are on hold “for a long, long
time,” Gross said in the radio interview.  
 In its non-farm payrolls report, the Labor Department said
employers eliminated 131,000 positions in July after a revised
reduction of 221,000 in the previous month. The median forecast
of 84 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a reduction
of 65,000. The unemployment rate stayed at 9.5 percent.  
 Private Payrolls  
 Private payrolls excluding government rose by 71,000 after
a June gain of 31,000 that was smaller than previously reported.
Economists projected a 90,000 increase in July.  
 Benchmark 10-year note  yields  rose on five of the past
seven announcements of non-farm payrolls. The yields fell 4
basis points on Feb. 5, when the government reported unexpected
job losses, and dropped 16 basis points on June 4, when the
report showed employers added fewer jobs than economists
forecast.  
 U.S. economic growth slowed to a 2.4 percent annual rate in
the second quarter from a 3.7 percent pace in the first three
months of the year. Consumer spending, pending home resales and
factory orders were weaker in June than projected.  
 “We now have a combination of a weaker economy, no job
growth, no inflation and possibly deflation, and it’s not
getting better,” said  Michael Cheah , who manages $2 billion in
bonds at SunAmerica Asset Management Corp. in Jersey City, New
Jersey. “The market can try to continue to try to find reason
why we are not Japan, but if it looks like a duck and quacks
like a duck, why isn’t it a duck? Investors should stay long on
Treasuries as rates can go even lower on the front and back end
of the curve.” A long is a bet an asset will rally.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        