-- Reckitt, MGM Resorts, KBR, Mike Tyson, Don Henley: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-08-06T11:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/reckitt-mgm-resorts-kbr-mike-tyson-don-henley-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc ’s Adams
Respiratory won an appeals court ruling that may help it prevent
 Perrigo Co.  from selling a generic version of the cough medicine
Mucinex.  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit yesterday
 ruled  a judge erred in saying Perrigo’s version wouldn’t
infringe Adams Respiratory’s patent 6,372,252 and sent the case
back for further proceedings. The decision was posted on the
court’s website. The patent was issued in April 2002.  
 Mucinex is an expectorant that loosens and helps expel
mucus that causes congestion. The main ingredient,  guaifenesin ,
was first approved by U.S. regulators in 1952 and the Adams
patent is for an extended-release version. Adams sued Perrigo in
2007, seeking to block the lower-cost product until the patent
expires in 2020.  
 The Federal Circuit said the trial judge erred in
interpreting the patent.  
 Perrigo, based in Allegan, Michigan, is the world’s largest
maker of non-prescription store-branded drugs. Art Shannon, a
spokesman for the company, declined to comment on the ruling. He
said Perrigo hadn’t entered the market because it doesn’t have
regulatory approval.  
 A spokesman for Slough, England-based Reckitt declined to
comment because of pending litigation.  
 The case is Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Inc. v. Perrigo
Co., 2010-1246, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Adams Respiratory
Therapeutics Inc. v. Perrigo Co., 07cv993, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Michigan (Grand Rapids).  
 Facebook Tightens Hold on Social Media IP With Patent Purchase  
 Facebook Inc., operator of the most-used social network
website, acquired seven patents and 11 published and pending
patent applications from Sunnyvale, California-based Friendster
Inc.  
 The transfer, which is revealed in  filings  with the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, took place May 13, and was recorded
at the patent office June 7.  
 Transferred to Facebook are patents 7,069,308, 7,478,078,
7,606,687, 7,117,254, 7,188,153, 7,451,161 and 7,680,882. The
acquired patents -- issued between July 2006 and March 2010 --
and the pending applications relate to social media technology.
The Houston firm of  Patterson & Sheridan LLP  assisted with the
patent-application process.  
 The newest patent -- 7,680,882 -- was issued March 16 and
is for a method and system for managing multimedia content
appearing on user pages of an online social network.  
 Friendster itself  was acquired  by closely held  MOL
AccessPortal Berhad ’s MOL Global of Kuala Lumpur in December.
MOL Global is a provider of online payment systems. Friendster
is a social network company that had more than 115 million
members at the end of 2009.  
 Facebook, based in Palo Alto, California, presently has 500
million users , according to  the company website.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 MGM Resorts Sues Over Mattress Company’s Use of ‘Bellagio’  
 MGM Resorts International ’s Bellagio unit sued a New York
mattress maker alleging trademark infringement.  
 The Las Vegas-based casino and resort company objects to
the use of the Bellagio name by  Grupo Magni’s Magniflex USA 
unit.  Bellagio  is the name of the casino company’s 4,000-room
casino resort in Las Vegas.  
 The resort has used the name continuously since 1998, has
spent “millions of dollars” to advertise and promote the name,
and has more than 20 trademark registrations for the name for a
variety of uses, including art gallery services, wedding chapel
services, clothing, cologne, and photography services, in
addition to the casino resort.  
 MGM says it’s sold Bellagio mattresses, pillows, towels and
robes to customers since 2001, before Magniflex began selling
mattresses in the U.S. The Bellagio mattresses are made by
National Bedding Co.’s Serta unit, according to the complaint
filed Aug. 4 in federal court in Las Vegas.  
 The company has pending applications to register
“Bellagio” as a trademark for mattresses and bedding. MGM says
it learned at an April furniture trade show in North Carolina
that Magniflex was offering a Bellagio mattress for sale.  
 This use of the mark is likely to confuse customers, and
cause the company to “suffer damages and irreparable injury,
including loss of reputation and goodwill,” according to court
papers.  
 The  original Bellagio  is popular tourist destination on
Lake Como in Italy’s Lombardy region.  
 MGM asked the court to halt the mattress company’s use of
the Bellagio mark, and for an award of money damages, attorney
fees and litigation costs.  
 The resort company is represented by  Michael J. McCue  and
 Jonathan W. Fountain  of Phoenix-based  Lewis & Roca LLP .  
 The case is Bellagio LLC v. Magniflex USA Ltd., 2:10-cv-
01311-PMP-PAL, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las
Vegas).  
 KBR Sues Hispanic Equity Fund for Infringing ‘KBR’ Trademark  
 KBR Inc. , the Houston-based engineering company and
military contractor, sued a Florida equity fund for trademark
infringement.  
 Miami-based  KBR Equity Fund  is accused of infringing marks
belonging to the Texas company. According to its website, KBR
Equity is an equity fund aimed at Latin America and Hispanics in
the U.S.  
 The engineering company said it initiated an action at the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to halt registration of the
equity fund’s trademark. That procedure is ongoing, according to
the complaint filed Aug. 4 in Houston federal court.  
 The public is likely to be confused by the Florida
company’s name and assume it has an affiliation with the
engineering company, KBR Inc. claims in its pleadings.  
 The potential for confusion is exacerbated, according to
court papers, because “members of the general public, including
equities investors” recognize the KBR Inc. as “a reputable and
stable company capable of arranging financing for major high-
cost investments and deals.”  
 The fact that the engineering company is traded on the New
York Stock Exchange under the “KBR” ticker symbol also leads
to potential confusion, according to the complaint.  
 KBR Inc. asked the court to bar the investment company from
using “KBR” or “any other mark confusingly similar.” It also
seeks a recall of all marketing, promotional and advertising
materials and the editing of any of the equity company’s
websites featuring the KBR name.  
 It also asked to be transferred the www.kbrequity.com name,
and for awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation
costs. Additionally, KBR Inc. asked that it be given an extra
monetary award to punish the equity company for its actions.  
 KBR Inc. is represented by  Robb. D. Edmonds  of  Edmonds &
Nolte PC  in Houston.  
 The case is KBR Inc. v. KBR Equity Partners LLC, 4:10-cv-
02776, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  
 $115 Million Sought From Tyson in Trademark Infringement Case  
 Mike Tyson , who won the World Boxing Council’s heavyweight
championship in 1986, was sued for trademark infringement by a
boxer from Moreno Valley, California.  
 Mike Landrum Sr. sued Tyson in federal court in Los
Angeles, claiming the retired champion infringed the “Iron
Mike” trademark. Landrum, who seeks $115 million in damages,
said he started boxing under the name in 1983.  
 He said he’s been damaged by Tyson’s use of “Iron Mike,”
and, in addition to requesting money damages, asked the court to
bar Tyson from further use of the term.  
 Landrum is unrepresented by counsel. The complaint was
filed June 28, with a scheduling conference set for Oct. 25.  
 The case is Landrum v. Tyson, 2:10-cv-04785-VRF-RC, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Henley Wins Apology, Cash in Political Ad Infringement Suit  
 Don Henley , a founding member of the Eagles and a
successful solo musician and songwriter, received a written
apology from a California politician as part of the settlement
of a suit for misappropriation of two of his songs for a
political campaign.  
 Henley sued  Charles S. DeVore  for copyright infringement in
April after DeVore used two Henley songs without authorization
for videos promoting his campaign for a seat in the U.S. Senate.
Co-defendant with DeVore was Justin Hart, who worked on the
DeVore campaign.  
 DeVore is a conservative Republican who lost the primary
election in June to Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of
 Hewlett-Packard Co.   
 Co-plaintiffs with Henley are songwriters Mike Campbell and
Danny Kortchmar. They objected to DeVore’s use of “Dance” and
“The Boys of Summer” in videos critical of President Barack
Obama and California incumbent U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer.  
 The videos were posted on  Google Inc. ’s YouTube video-
sharing site and other websites.  
 DeVore claimed his use of the songs was permitted under
“fair use” interpretations of U.S. copyright law. U.S.
District Judge  James V. Selna  disagreed and in a June 10 order
said the copyrights were infringed. Selna didn’t agree that the
songwriters’ trademarks were also infringed or that the
infringement was deliberate.  
 In addition to an apology, an undisclosed amount of
compensation was paid to the three songwriters by DeVore and
Hart, according to a  statement  released on BusinessWire
yesterday.  
 In their apology they said “the court’s ruling in this
case confirms that political candidates, regardless of
affiliation, should seek appropriate license authority before
they use copyrighted works.”  
 They also apologized for “inaccurate, derogatory or
disparaging remarks” they made about Henley during the course
of the dispute.  
 Henley said the suit was not brought over political
ideology, “but the right of artists to control the use of the
works they create and protect their livelihoods.”  
 The musicians were represented by  Charles S. Barquist ,
 Craig Brian Whitney ,  Jacqueline C. Charlesworth ,  Kelvin D. Chen ,
Tania Magoon,  Charles E. Patterson , and  Cindy P. Abramson  from
San Francisco’s  Morrison & Foerster LLP , and  Professor Paul
Goldstein  from Stanford Law School.  
 The case is Henley v. DeVore, 8:09-cv-00481-JVS-RNB, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 IP Moves  
 Dykema Gossett Adds  Jeffrey Pine  to Chicago IP Practice Group  
 Dykema Gossett PLLC  hired  Jeffrey A. Pine  for its IP
practice group, the Chicago-based firm said in a statement.  
 Pine, a litigator, has handled patent, trade secret,
trademark and copyright cases. He has represented clients in the
electrical, mechanical, software, and Internet fields. Before he
was a lawyer he was an engineer designing automated testing
equipment for complex electronic systems.  
 He has previously practiced at Valauskas & Pine LLC, its
predecessor firm of Baniak, Pine & Gannon, and at  Brinks Hofer
Gilson & Lione , all of Chicago.  
 Pine has an undergraduate degree in electric engineering
from the University of Illinois and a law degree from Loyola
University of Chicago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        