-- RIM, Saudi Carriers in Talks to Avoid BlackBerry Ban
-- Wael Mahdi
-- 2010-08-06T20:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/rim-saudi-wireless-carriers-said-to-be-in-talks-to-avoid-blackberry-ban.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd.  and three
Saudi Arabian phone companies are in talks to avert a ban on
BlackBerry services in the country, after a government deadline
to shut off its messaging service lapsed, two people familiar
with the talks said.  
 The maker of BlackBerry smartphones and the three carriers
are making progress in the talks as they seek a solution
acceptable to authorities, the people said. The carriers kept
the BlackBerry Messenger service working today as discussions
continued, said the people who asked not to be identified since
the talks weren’t finished.  
 The largest Arab economy, Saudi Arabia, said Aug. 3 that it
would order the country’s three mobile-phone operators to shut
off instant messaging services starting today. Users in the
kingdom said they lost access to some phone capabilities for a
part of the day, before it was restored. The carriers aren’t
sure whether they will be fined for not suspending the services,
one of the people said.  
 “The BlackBerry has become indispensable for the business
community in Saudi Arabia and the region,” said  John Sfakianakis , chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi in Riyadh,
who said all of his three BlackBerry handsets were working after
some interruption earlier today. He said blocking services would
be “a disruption to the business flow and productivity,”
adding that all functions were restored by about 1 p.m. local
time.  
 Indonesia, India  
 RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, faces growing scrutiny
over its BlackBerry e-mail and messaging services in countries
including the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and India.
Indonesia, the world’s fourth most-populous nation, also
expressed concern about BlackBerry services. The U.S. and
Canadian governments said yesterday they’re in talks with
foreign governments to find a solution.  
 Marisa Conway , a spokeswoman for RIM, declined to comment
on whether BlackBerry Messenger has been suspended in Saudi
Arabia or on whether the company is in talks with the carriers.  
 The U.S. government is discussing a proposed ban in the
U.A.E. with that country’s government, U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said yesterday at a press conference. Canadian
Trade Minister  Peter Van Loan  told reporters yesterday his
country’s officials are working with RIM and foreign governments
to find a solution to disputes over the device.  
 Julie Reside, a State Department spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t confirm whether talks were happening today because of
the Muslim holy day in the region.  
 BlackBerry messenger services had continued to work for
many users in Saudi Arabia as late as 12 p.m. Riyadh time, Al
Arabiya TV reported today on its website  Alaswaq.net .  
 Government Talks  
 A spokesman for Saudi Arabia’s telecommunications
regulator, the Communications and Information Technology
Commission, didn’t respond to calls and e-mails seeking comment
today, a weekend day in the kingdom.  
 The country’s wireless operators are  Saudi Telecom Co. ,
 Etihad Etisalat Co. , known as Mobily, and the local unit of
Kuwait’s  Mobile Telecommunications Co. , known as Zain KSA. The
carriers were ordered to stop messaging services today after a
yearlong consultation with RIM failed to bring BlackBerry
functions into line with Saudi Arabia’s telecommunications laws,
the regulator said this week.  
 Government officials were still in talks with RIM over the
issue this week, Sultan Al Malik, a spokesman for the regulator
said in an e-mailed response to questions Aug. 4.  
 “There is a legitimate security concern,” Clinton said,
“but there’s also a legitimate right of free use and access.”  
 Turkey’s telecommunications regulator today said there are
“serious” security weaknesses related to Blackberry services
in the country, adding that it has set up a committee to look
into the matter.  
 ‘Security Needs’  
 The U.A.E. said in a statement this week that it wouldn’t
be changing its decision to ban BlackBerry service in October
and that it was open to discussions aimed at achieving a
solution to the issue.  
 State Department spokesman  Philip Crowley  said yesterday
the U.S. has been in touch with RIM and will have further
meetings “to try to understand fully the issues that have been
raised” and “determine how to meet both the security needs
that these countries are expressing and also ensure the free
flow of information as we are advocating.” The U.S. is also in
touch with all the countries involved, he said.  
 RIM  rose  $1.22 cents to $53.45 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading, ending four days of declines. The
stock has dropped 21 percent this year.  
 ‘Working Intensely’  
 RIM  said Aug. 4 it can’t meet requests from governments
that it reveal codes for reading some users’ communications. The
BlackBerry corporate service was designed to prevent RIM, or
anyone else, from reading encrypted information and any claims
that RIM provided “something unique to the government of one
country” are unfounded, it said.  
 The Indian government is still in talks with RIM over
BlackBerry services in the country and is hopeful an agreement
can be reached, Telecommunications Minister Andimuthu Raja said
this week. India may ban RIM services unless the Canadian
company agrees to resolve security concerns, a government
official with knowledge of the matter said last week.  
 Mike Abramsky , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in
Toronto, said he met with RIM Aug. 4. While the company declined
to outline possible resolutions, “it seemed as if all the
parties are working intensely to resolve the issues,” he wrote
in a note.  
 The company has about 1.2 million subscribers in Indonesia,
1.1 million customers in India and the United Arab Emirates and
Saudi Arabia together make up 1.2 million subscribers, Abramsky
said. RIM had 46 million subscribers globally at the end of May.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anthony DiPaola  in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
 Wael Mahdi  in Jeddah, at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net 
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       RIM Agrees to Buy Back Shares for About $79.8 Million  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         While sales have increased, the company has lost share in the smartphone software market. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     While sales have increased, the company has lost share in the smartphone software market. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
