-- Romania Central Bank's Isarescu Raises Year-End Inflation Estimate to 7.8%
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-08-06T09:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/romania-central-bank-s-isarescu-raises-year-end-inflation-estimate-to-7-8-.html

          
          
             Romania’s  central bank  raised its
inflation forecast for 2010 and 2011 after an increase in the
value-added tax to meet international bailout conditions boosted
prices.  
 The bank estimates the 2010 year-end  inflation  at 7.8
percent, compared with a May forecast of 3.7 percent, Banca
Nationala a Romaniei Governor  Mugur Isarescu  said in Bucharest
today. The rate may be 3.1 percent in December 2011, compared
with a previous estimate of 2.8 percent, it said.  
 “We are extremely vigilant as far as the second-round
effects from the VAT increase are concerned,’’ Isarescu said.
“We hope to win this muddy war with inflation.’’  
 The bank left the  monetary policy rate  unchanged at a
record-low 6.25 on Aug. 4 for a second meeting in a row as
policy makers assess the impact of the VAT increase on
inflation. The central bank’s target is 3 percent plus or minus
1 percentage point this year.  
 The government , which relies on a 20 billion-euro ($26.5
billion) loan from the International Monetary Fund and the
European Union to stay afloat, increased the value-added tax to
24 percent from 19 percent and cut public wages by 25 percent
last month to meet the bailout conditions.  
 Isarescu  sees no reason to adjust the benchmark rate based
on the tax increase, because the expected acceleration in
inflation “isn’t monetary,” he said on July 8. Policy makers
halted rate reductions on June 30 after cutting rates four times
in a row to combat recession.  
 Main Target  
 The  inflation  rate, the central bank’s main target, was
unchanged at 4.4 percent in June. A drop in food prices offset a
weaker currency that drove up the import costs.  
 Isarescu also said he “discourages” any appreciation of
the leu. He said the central bank was “flexible” as far as
banks’ minimum reserve requirements are concerned and is ready
to “move” on the issue “when the market asks for it.” He
said lenders showed they have liquidity by buying 1.2 billion
euros in Treasury bills sold by the Finance Ministry last month.  
 The east European country’s economy, going through its
worst recession in 60 years, will probably contract as much as
1.9 percent in 2010, more than the previous forecast of 0.5
percent, because of an expected slump in demand after the VAT
increase and wage cuts, Jeffrey Franks, head of the IMF mission
to Romania, said on Aug. 4. The economy will return to growth of
2 percent next year, he said.  
 Romania is meeting loan conditions and the donors will
recommend the release of a total 2.1 billion euros in next
payments in September, Franks and European Commission Mission
Head Laurent Moulin said.  
 Isarescu said the country must “rediscuss” the 2015
target for euro adoption, clarifying earlier remarks that the
country’s convergence program must be discussed again.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        