-- Bermuda Braces for Flooding as Tropical Storm Colin Draws Closer to Island
-- Peter Evans
-- 2010-08-06T18:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/tropical-storm-colin-reforms-over-atlantic-ocean-heads-toward-bermuda.html

          
          
             Bermuda prepared for flooding, high
waves and strong winds as Tropical Storm Colin approached on a
course to pass west of the island group and north to Canada.  
 Colin, with maximum sustained winds of 45 miles (75
kilometers) an hour, was 335 miles south-southwest of Bermuda,
the U.S. National Hurricane Center said in a website  advisory  at
2 p.m. Miami time. The system has shifted its track and is
moving north at 7 mph, the center said.  
 The storm, which re-formed late yesterday over the Atlantic
after weakening below tropical storm status, is forecast to
intensify further tonight and early tomorrow before passing just
west of Bermuda. Bermuda issued a tropical storm warning,
indicating sustained winds of at least 39 mph may lash the
island within 36 hours.  
 “Only a slight deviation to the east of the forecast track
could bring the center over the island,” the Miami-based
hurricane center said. “Little change in strength is expected
today, with some strengthening forecast tonight and Saturday.”  
 The  Bermuda Weather Service  said the current track
indicates Colin will pass within 86 miles of Bermuda at its
closest point at about 11 p.m. local time tomorrow. Tropical
storm force winds may extend up to 105 miles from the center of
Colin, the U.S. center said.  
 ‘Squally Rain’  
 Colin will bring “squally rain showers, some heavy and
thundery, and dangerous and battering surf and swells,
especially on the more exposed south shore,” the Bermuda
service said. It issued a small craft warning, indicating waves
and swells may surpass 9 feet (3 meters).  
 The hurricane center said as much as 5 inches (13
centimeters) of rain may fall on Bermuda amid a storm surge.  
 Environment Canada Hurricane Centre yesterday  issued  a map
showing Colin passing south of Newfoundland on Aug. 10.  
 The U.S. yesterday reduced its forecast for the 2010
Atlantic hurricane season to 14 to 20 named storms, down from 14
to 23, because of less activity than expected in the first two
months of the season.  
 Eight to 12 of those storms are expected to grow into
hurricanes with winds of 74 mph or greater, and four to six may
become major systems with winds of 111 mph or more, said  Gerry Bell , the lead seasonal hurricane forecaster for the  U.S.
Climate Prediction Center  in Camp Springs, Maryland.  
 The Atlantic hurricane season is closely watched because
the storms are a threat to oil and natural gas interests in the
Gulf of Mexico and agriculture in the southern states. Florida
is the second-largest citrus producer behind Brazil while the
Gulf accounts for 31 percent of U.S. oil output and 43 percent
of the country’s refining capacity.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Evans  in London at 
 pevans15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        