-- Rubber Set for Best Weekly Gain Since June on Improved Auto Demand Outlook
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-08-06T05:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/rubber-set-for-best-weekly-gain-since-june-on-improved-auto-demand-outlook.html

          
          
             Rubber advanced for a second day,
heading for the biggest weekly rise since June, amid speculation
that demand for the commodity used in tires may grow after
automakers raised their earnings outlook.  
 Futures in Tokyo climbed as much as 0.7 percent to 282.6
yen a kilogram ($3,282 a metric ton) after reaching a five-week
high of 287 yen yesterday. The price is set for its best
performance since the week ended June 25.  
 Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s largest carmaker, increased
its full-year profit forecast this week on recovering U.S. sales
and gains in Asia. The report came after Honda Motor Co.,
Japan’s second-largest automaker, raised its earnings outlook on
improving Asian sales.  
 “Good numbers from carmakers eased concern that a slowdown
in the U.S. economy may curb demand,”  Kazuhiko Saito , analyst
at Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co., said today by phone.
“Demand may be sustained, led by growth in Asian car sales.”  
 January-delivery rubber traded at 281.2 yen at 2:30 p.m. on
the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 Toyota may post net income of 340 billion yen in the year
ending in March, compared with an earlier estimate of 310
billion yen, it said on Aug. 4. The automaker raised its sales
outlook for all regions except Europe amid a rebound in demand.  
 Honda expects net income of 455 billion yen in the year
ending March, compared with an earlier estimate of 340 billion
yen, the Tokyo-based company said July 30.  
 Gains in rubber futures were limited as Asian equities
fluctuated and the dollar traded near the weakest in eight
months against the yen ahead of a report today expected to show
that the U.S. lost jobs for a second month.  
 U.S. non-farm payrolls probably fell by 65,000 in July,
according to the median estimate of 84 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. More Americans than projected filed applications
for unemployment insurance last week, indicating firings remain
elevated as the recovery moderated.  
 January-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
lost 0.8 percent to 24,625 yuan ($3,637) a ton.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        