-- SABMiller Will Boost Southern Sudan Output to Ward Off Diageo Competition
-- Alan Boswell
-- 2010-08-06T07:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/sabmiller-will-boost-southern-sudan-output-to-ward-off-diageo-competition.html

          
          
             SABMiller Plc , the world’s second-
biggest brewer by volume, said it plans to raise output by 52
percent at its  Southern Sudanese  plant this year to ward off
competition from  Diageo Plc ’s unit in neighboring Kenya.  
 The company is seeking to capitalize on demand that
resulted in beer sales in Southern Sudan growing by double
digits every month over the past year, said Ian Alsworth-Elvey,
managing director of Southern Sudan Beverages Ltd., or SSBL.  
 “I don’t think this market is big enough to sustain two
brewing companies,” Alsworth-Elvey said in an interview on Aug.
4 in the Southern Sudanese capital, Juba.  
 SABMiller last year spent $400 million opening four new
breweries in sub-Saharan Africa, including operations in
 Mozambique , Angola and Tanzania. The London-based company
generates about 12 percent of its earnings in Africa.  
 Southern Sudan gained autonomy from  Sudan  under a 2005
peace accord that ended a 21-year civil war in which 2 million
people died. SSBL’s brewery, which manufactures the “White Bull”
and “Chairman’s Extra Strong Beer” brands, was the first to open
in Southern Sudan when it began operating in May 2009.  
 SSBL competes with products manufactured by  East African
Breweries Ltd. , Kenya’s second-biggest company by market value
and in which Diageo owns a 43 percent stake.  
 “We are continuing to erode their market share,” Alsworth-
Elvey said. SSBL estimates its current share of Southern Sudan’s
beer market is between 55 percent and 65 percent, he said.  
 Rival Factory  
 East African Breweries plans to build a 700,000-hectoliter
(18.5 million-gallon) plant in Juba,  Wycliffe Masinde , an
analyst at Nairobi-based Kestrel Capital East Africa Ltd., said
in a May 31 e-mailed note to clients.  
 “We are in negotiations with the government of Sudan to
solidify our presence in the region,”  Ken Kariuki , corporate
affairs director at East African Breweries, said in a mobile-
phone text message yesterday. “At the moment it is too early for
me to give specifics.”  
 Last month, Diageo said it will increase marketing spending
next year in developing regions to counter an uncertain economic
outlook in the U.S. and Europe.  
 Brewing capacity at SSBL’s factory will be expanded to
350,000 hectoliters by December, from 230,000 hectoliters at
present, Alsworth-Elvey said.  
 SSBL also has a 400,000-hectoliter plant for producing soft
drinks, which it began selling in October 2009, and 70,000
hectoliters of bottled water.  
 Sales Forecast  
 While Alsworth-Elvey declined to give more specific sales
figures for SSBL’s operations, he said that in the first three
months of the current financial year, which began on April 1,
“we sold more than in the first 8 months of the previous
financial year.” Full-year sales are expected to increase 75%
from a year earlier, he said.  
 SSBL will start a partnership this month with  FARM-Africa ,
a U.K.-based aid organization, to grow cassava or sorghum in
Southern Sudan for beer production. The program will take about
a year to set up, Alsworth-Elvey said.  
 SABMiller said last year that using domestic ingredients
could allow the company to slash the price of a beer by 30
percent in Africa.  
 Southern Sudanese will vote in a referendum in January on
whether to secede from Sudan, an event that Alsworth-Elvey said
he expected to be backed by voters, resulting in the creation of
a new state.  
 Whatever the result of the referendum, Alsworth-Elvey said
the company has no plans to quit its operations in Southern
Sudan.  
 “We are here for the long run,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Boswell  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        