-- Scotch Shortage Pleases Chavez as Tipplers Blame Currency
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-08-06T04:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/scotch-shortage-pleases-chavez-as-venezuela-tipplers-blame-currency-crisis.html

          
          
             Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , who
declared an economic war against bourgeois comforts, is winning
one for the socialists in his battle against the nation’s most
popular spirit: Scotch whisky.  
 Chavez’s shutdown of the unregulated currency market is
reducing shipments and sales of whisky and pushing up prices by
almost 50 percent as companies including  Diageo Plc  and  Pernod-
Ricard SA  struggle to obtain dollars for imports.  
 “We’ve only been receiving 5 percent of the whisky that we
requested in the last month and a half,” said Fernando Soto,
president of retailer  Licores Mundiales . “The distributors are
restricting supply to avoid a more difficult situation; they’re
buying time to resolve the currency issue.”  
 By taking control of the foreign exchange market, Chavez is
limiting a Venezuelan favorite. Venezuela is the largest market
for Scotch whisky in Latin America and the sixth-biggest global
importer by value, according to the  Scotch Whisky Association  in
Edinburgh. The nation, with a population of 28 million, brought
in more of the liquor last year than all of Brazil, with 205
million residents.  
 Venezuela imported 116 million pounds ($184.3 million) of
Scotch last year, according to the Scotch whisky trade group.  
 Liquor distributors, bars and restaurants are receiving
fewer shipments and are paying in cash for deliveries after
spirits companies cut off credit amid a liquidity crunch caused
by the shutdown of the currency market, where they turned to buy
dollars, Soto said.  
 Stretching Inventory  
 At Licores Mundiales, Scotch whisky is usually the top
seller. Thanks to Chavez, total retail sales fell 50 percent in
June, he said.  
 “We’re stretching our inventories,” Soto said in a
telephone interview. “This situation is sustainable for another
few months.”  
 Isabelle Thomas, a Diageo spokeswoman in London, and
Florence Taron, a Pernod-Ricard spokeswoman in Paris, didn’t
respond to e-mails seeking comment. Diageo and Pernod-Ricard
officials in Caracas declined to comment for this story and
asked not to be named in accordance with company policies.  
 The shortages mark a victory for Chavez, 56, who blames
capitalism for the nation’s ills and has nationalized companies
in the oil, food, cement and metals industries.  
 Shipments Decline  
 Chavez, a former paratrooper who was jailed for a failed
coup attempt in 1992, is no fan of whisky. He often assails the
opposition and businessmen for drinking expensive Scotch at
country clubs, playing golf and traveling to Miami -- and says
they’re trying to be more like Americans.  
 “Rich people are lazy and almost all of them spend every
day drinking whisky,” Chavez said on May 15.  
 Whisky shipments began falling after Chavez tightened
currency controls in May by closing the unregulated market run
by brokerages which he accused of fueling capital flight,
setting artificial exchange rates and laundering money. Chavez
acted after monthly  consumer prices  rose 5.2 percent in April,
the most in seven years.  
 Chavez, who devalued the bolivar in January by as much as
50 percent, established a multitier exchange system where
importers pay 2.6 bolivars per dollar for essential goods and a
rate of 4.3 for nonessentials.  
 To obtain official rates for imports, companies must
receive government approval from the Foreign Exchange Board,
known as  Cadivi . The organization allowed $7.6 million for
alcoholic beverage imports in the first half of the year,
compared with $2 billion for food, according to figures on its
website.  
 Unregulated Currency  
 Diageo , the maker of Johnnie Walker whisky, and  Pernod-
Ricard  of Paris turned to the unregulated market to buy dollars
at more than double the official exchange rate.  
 Whisky importers used that market to import about $20
million a month after Cadivi stopped approving dollars in 2008,
according to estimates from Caracas-based consulting and
research firm  Ecoanalitica .  
 That option is no longer available. The central bank now
controls the trading of dollar-denominated securities and sells
currency at about 5.3 bolivars per dollar. The unregulated
market was trading bolivars at 8.2 per dollar before being
closed.  
 The central bank limits purchases to $50,000 a day and
$350,000 a month. Those sums are insufficient for large
corporations, said  Asdrubal Oliveros , a director at
Ecoanalitica.  
 Liquor Rationing  
 Merlin Gessen, manager of the Le Gourmet restaurant in the
five-star  Intercontinental Tamanaco hotel  in the Las Mercedes
district of Caracas, where an executive suite costs $389 a
night, said the new rules have led to lower liquor sales.  
 Gessen said distributors are rationing whisky because they
anticipate shortages getting worse, pushing prices higher.  
 “When people know there are shortages of a product they
buy as much as they can, exacerbating the problem,” said
Gessen. “Venezuelans are like that.”  
 For now, Venezuelans are paying more for a drink that’s a
centerpiece of leisure time. Venezuelans consume bottles of 12-
year and 18 year-old Scotch blends at weddings, bars and
restaurants as a sign of class, shunning some of the  world’s
best premium rums  produced in the South American country.  
 “How many people waste money on whisky, parties and
traveling?” Chavez said in a speech in May 2007. “Venezuela is
one of the countries that most consumes whisky per capita. That
shames me. It is part of the capitalist curse that is
consumerism.”  
 Price Increases  
 Alcoholic beverage prices have risen 48 percent in the last
year, the most among the 12 categories measured in the  central
bank’s  benchmark Caracas price index released yesterday.  
 Prices for  Buchanan’s 12 , a blend of Scotch whiskies that
dates to 1884, at a  Prolicor  store in Caracas jumped 33 percent
to 325 bolivars ($75.67 at the official rate) in the last two
months as customers rushed to buy whisky, Carolina Linares, the
manager, said. A similar bottle in Duty Free stores abroad sells
for $30.  
 The store is receiving just a few bottles of whisky per
brand, instead of several cases each, she said. The store has
enough inventory to last through the end of this month, Linares
said.  
 ‘Common Drink’  
 “Whisky consumption is wide spread because during
Venezuela’s history it became a common drink through imports
that came along with the oil bonanza,” said  Luis Vicente Leon ,
a director of Datanalisis market research and polling firm.
“Whiskey is also a sign of status.”  
 While Chavez still views the drink as a vice, his
government appears ready to help tipplers. Central bank
President  Nelson Merentes  said on July 28 that he has met with
business leaders to discuss import needs and that the bank may
make changes to the currency market to raise purchase quotas.  
 “I don’t have any doubts that the scarcity of the spirit
will create a black market,” Oliveros from Ecoanalitica said in
a telephone interview. “But I don’t think the Venezuelan, with
their selective taste for the drink, will quickly substitute a
12-year scotch for a local liquor.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Scotch Shortage Pleases Chavez  
                       
                         
                           Miguel Gutierrez/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         President Hugo Chavez last sold dollar bonds in the local market in October, when his administration issued $5 billion of securities as part of an effort to bolster the supply of dollar based assets in the economy and shore up the bolivar. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Hugo Chavez last sold dollar bonds in the local market in October, when his administration issued $5 billion of securities as part of an effort to bolster the supply of dollar based assets in the economy and shore up the bolivar. Photographer: Miguel Gutierrez/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
