-- Small-Town Weakness Drags on U.S. Hotel Rebound
-- Nadja Brandt
-- 2010-08-06T15:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/small-town-demand-trailing-new-york-drags-on-rebound-in-u-s-hotel-market.html

          
          
             Sluggish hotel demand outside the
largest U.S. cities is slowing an industrywide rebound even as
an influx of leisure, business and international travelers spurs
growth in metropolitan areas such as New York.  
 Occupancies at hotels in small towns and near highways were
little changed at 49 percent in the first six months of 2010,
according to  Smith Travel Research Inc . They climbed to 65
percent from 61 percent from a year earlier in large cities
including New York, Chicago and Washington.  
 Lodging demand in smaller markets has been slower to
recover as the job market remains weak. While rising travel to
urban areas boosted earnings at hotel owners including  Marriott
International Inc.  and  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. , companies may
not be able to raise rates nationwide until the second half of
2011, according to  Jan Freitag , vice president at Smith Travel.  
 “New York City is skewing the numbers,” said  David Loeb ,
an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in Milwaukee. “Urban and
suburban markets are doing the best while the others are
recovering more slowly.”  
 Total hotel occupancies in the U.S. rose to 56 percent this
year through June from 54 percent a year earlier, said Smith
Travel. In New York, occupancies climbed to 79 percent from 72
percent, placing it first among the top 25 U.S. markets.  
 New York City’s 514 hotels account for only 1.9 percent of
the total U.S. room supply, and their revenue share is almost 6
percent, Freitag said. The U.S. average decline in room rates
was 2 percent this year through June. Excluding New York  hotels ,
the drop was 2.7 percent.  
 Rise in 2011  
 Rates in New York have been climbing since March, after
almost a year and a half of declines, amid higher demand from
business and leisure travelers, according to Freitag.  
 “I expect this trend to continue,” he said. “Hotels in
smaller markets won’t be able to raise room rates before the
second half of next year.”  
 Revenue per available room, or revpar, was little changed
in the first half of the year at hotels in smaller towns, where
it averaged $37.91, and at hotels near highways, where it
averaged $33.74. That compares with a revpar increase of 6.9
percent to $87.52 in urban areas, the biggest gain among Smith
Travel’s six regional categories.  
 U.S. economic growth slowed in some areas over the past two
months, dragged down by commercial real estate and the
expiration of a tax credit for homebuyers, the  Federal Reserve 
said July 28. The report underscored the Fed’s view that the
recovery, while still moving forward, is progressing at a slower
pace than earlier in the year.  
 Hiring Slowdown  
 Private employers in the U.S. added workers in July at a
pace that suggests the labor-market recovery will be slow to
take hold.  
 Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by
71,000 last month, less than forecast, after a June gain of
31,000 that was smaller than previously reported, Labor
Department figures in Washington showed today. Economists
projected a 90,000 July increase, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Companies will need to gain confidence in a broad economic
recovery before they hire more workers or spend money to send
them on business trips outside big cities, said Loeb of Robert
W. Baird.  
 “The financial services industry is doing better, so that
boosts travel to places like New York,” he said.
“Manufacturing and agriculture or businesses that service the
middle markets in America, on the other hand, aren’t doing that
well. That’s what’s affecting the smaller markets.”  
 Investor Purchases  
 Lagging visitor demand has curtailed investors’ interest in
buying hotels outside major cities, said  Ben Thypin , a senior
market analyst at Real Capital Analytics Inc. in New York.  
 Lenders have almost $3.8 billion worth of foreclosed hotels
on their balance sheets, according to  Real Capital  data. Of
those hotels, 84 percent are in smaller markets, Thypin said.  
 “The overwhelming share of foreclosed hotels in secondary
and tertiary markets is rooted in the weaker outlook for demand
for lodging in those markets,” he said. “This leaves the
properties to languish on balance sheets with few parties
interested in purchasing them from the bank.”  
 Hotel companies are reporting improved results as their
metropolitan locations drive growth. Second-quarter earnings at
 Wyndham , the Parsippany, New Jersey-based franchiser of Days Inn
hotels and Super 8 motels,  rose 34 percent  from a year earlier.
At the company’s priciest properties, branded as Wyndham Hotels
and Resorts and located mostly in vacation and urban areas,
average occupancies rose to 60 percent from 55 percent.  
 Super 8, Days Inn  
 Those properties performed better than Wyndham’s Knights
Inn hotels, where occupancies dropped 1.3 percentage points to
38 percent, and its Super 8 and  Days Inn  locations, where
average occupancies of 52 percent and 49 percent respectively
were little changed from a year earlier. Those hotels often are
located in so-called secondary and tertiary markets.  
 Improvements are “being led by occupancy gains across our
brands, with the strongest performance in the Wyndham Hotel and
Resorts brand, which has strong city-center locations,” Wyndham
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Holmes  said in an Aug. 4 e-mail.  
 At  Marriott , the owner of the upscale JW Marriott and
luxury Ritz-Carlton lines, second-quarter profit also was buoyed
by the company’s costlier hotels.  
 Luxury Hotels  
 Revenue per available room for the 12 weeks ended June 18
at full-service and luxury hotels in North America climbed 8.2
percent before adjustment for currency-exchange rates. That
compares with a 4.5 percent increase at its limited-service
brands, Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott said July 14.  
 JW Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels are found in major
cities across the U.S. including New York and Los Angeles, while
its limited-service brands, including Residence Inn and
Fairfield Inn & Suites, are mostly in suburban and rural areas.  
 Average daily rates climbed 0.6 percent at Marriott’s full-
service and luxury hotels, compared with a 1.6 percent decline
at its limited-service brands.  
 “At our New York hotels, we’re seeing an increase across
all segments -- on the leisure side from domestic and
international travelers, particularly from the U.K., Asia and
the Middle East,” said Kathleen Duffy, a spokeswoman for the
company’s  hotels  in the city. “But business travel is also
coming back, particularly in the financial industry.”  
 At the 665-room Marriott in Brooklyn Heights, the night of
Aug. 3 was sold out, and the Marriott Marquis in Manhattan’s
Times Square “also does consistently well,” Duffy said.  
 “Secondary and tertiary markets are much more linked to
consumer spending and business travel, whereas primary ones get
international, leisure and business travel,” said Thypin of
Real Capital. “Vacationers don’t go to Columbus, Ohio, but they
go to New York City.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nadja Brandt  in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Small-town demand trailing New York drags on hotel rebound  
                       
                         
                           JB Reed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pedestrians pass outside the Marriott Marquis Hotel in Times Square, New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pedestrians pass outside the Marriott Marquis Hotel in Times Square, New York. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Commercial property deals have increased in the first half of 2010 as investors look to take advantage of lower prices for office, apartment buildings and hotels. U.S. commercial property prices are down 39 percent from 2007 peaks, according to Moody’s Investors Service, creating a potential investment opportunity in major markets such as New York and San Francisco, Bloomberg's Monica Bertran reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
