-- South African Bread Prices Will Rise on Russian Ban, Milling Chamber Says
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-08-06T13:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/south-african-bread-prices-to-increase-after-russia-bans-exports-of-grain.html

          
          
             South African bread prices will rise
in the next two months after Russia banned exports of grain
following the country’s worst drought in half a century.  
 Bread “will definitely cost us a lot more in two to three
months,”  Jannie De Villiers , executive director of the South
African Chamber of Milling, said in an interview today. Corn
meal and bread are South Africa’s staple foods.  
 Wheat traded in Chicago extended a rally to the highest
price in 23 months today after Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s
order to halt exports of wheat, maslin, barley, rye, corn and
flour from Aug. 15 until Dec. 31. Drought and record heat forced
the country to declare a state of emergency in 28 crop-producing
regions. Putin proposed that Kazakhstan and Belarus, Russia’s
partners in a customs union, join the ban.  
 Product costs will rise in “the months ahead” because of
the ban, higher electricity and payroll costs,  Andre Hanekom ,
chief executive officer of  Pioneer Foods Ltd. , the maker of
Sasko bread and Weet-Bix cereal, said in an e-mailed response to
questions today.  
 “We’ll absorb these increases for as long as possible.”  
 In South Africa, wheat for December delivery jumped 64
rand, or 2.4 percent, to close trade at 2,766 rand ($381) a
metric ton on the South African Futures Exchange today. Egypt,
Morocco and Algeria are the largest African wheat producers.  
 Farmers in the country won’t be able to react immediately
to higher prices by increasing production, De Villiers said.  
 “It’s a bit late in the season for farmers to plant more
of the grain,” he said. “It might encourage them next year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Derby in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        