-- South African Reserves Climb as Treasury Boosts Foreign Currency Purchases
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-08-06T08:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/south-african-foreign-currency-reserves-climb-as-central-bank-buys-dollars.html

          
          
             South Africa’s foreign currency
reserves climbed 2.3 percent last month as the  National Treasury 
boosted purchases and a weaker dollar increased the value of
holdings in euros and pounds.  
 Gross reserves  rose 2.3 percent to $43.2 billion, the
Pretoria-based Reserve Bank said on its website today.  Net
reserves  increased to $38.7 billion from $38.2 billion.  
 The Treasury increased its foreign currency deposits with
the central bank by $480 million last month after adding $661
million in June, the data shows. The government is stepping up
purchases to help curb the rand, which has gained 6.5 percent
against the dollar in the past six months.  
 “The government has been clear in the past that it wants a
weaker rand,”  Leon Myburgh , sub-Saharan Africa analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said in a phone interview from Johannesburg
today. “They’re becoming more focused on how they do it.”  
 The rand was at 7.2447 against the dollar as of 9:38 a.m.
in Johannesburg, little changed from before the data was
released.  
 The Reserve Bank’s foreign currency purchases last month
were “minimal,” Myburgh said. Valuation effects because of a
weaker dollar boosted reserves by about $600 million, he said.  
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said on July 19 the government should step up dollar purchases
to weaken the rand and save jobs. President  Jacob Zuma  said on
July 22 the Cabinet is considering that proposal, though no
decision had been made yet.  
 Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said on the same day that
the bank is “very aware of the impact of both the level and
volatility of the rand on the economy” and is “ready to
continue to play our part.”  
 “For all the talk that goes around, from policy makers,
unions and businesses, it does surprise me that authorities
haven’t been more active,” said  George Glynos , managing
director of Econometric Treasury Management in Johannesburg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        