-- Spain Economy Accelerated in Second Quarter, Bank of Spain Says
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-08-06T08:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/spanish-economic-growth-accelerated-in-second-quarter-bank-of-spain-says.html

          
          
             Spain’s economic growth accelerated
in the second quarter, the Bank of Spain said, even as
government austerity measures threaten to undermine the
recovery.  
 Gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent from the previous
quarter, when it increased 0.1 percent in the first expansion
since early 2008, the central bank in Madrid estimated in its
monthly bulletin today. From a year earlier, the economy
contracted an estimated 0.2 percent, the bank said.  
 Car-buying incentives boosted spending in the quarter,
while an increase in sales tax in July encouraged consumers to
bring forward purchases, the bank said. Household consumption
grew around 0.7 percent from April to June, it estimated.  
 “As these effects come to an end, the pace of consumption
growth could ease, in the context of a decline in disposable
income” as wage growth slows and government stimulus measures
are wound back, the Bank of Spain said.  
 As the economy emerges from the worst slump in 60 years,
the central government’s budget deficit is shrinking and the
 risk premium  on Spanish government debt has fallen by about a
third from a euro-era high on June 16. Still, the deepest
austerity measures in at least three decades, tax increases and
the withdrawal of stimulus including public works programs,
threaten to undermine the recovery. The  unemployment  rate rose
to a decade high of 20.1 percent in the second quarter.  
 Technical Recession  
 “The economy could slip back into a technical recession by
the end of 2010 or early 2011,” said  Raj Badiani , an economist
at IHS Global Insight in London. “I suspect the second quarter
of 2010 will be the last quarter for some time where the economy
is propped up by the government: the fiscal stance is set to
become increasingly tighter, implying the economy will have to
fend for itself.”  
 Socialist Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  is
lagging in opinion polls as he cuts public-sector wages to
reduce the euro-region’s third-largest budget gap and tries to
overhaul the labor market.  
 The country’s two biggest unions have called a general
strike for Sept. 29, and air-traffic controllers plan a walkout
during the peak tourist month of August.  
 The Finance Ministry expects quarterly growth throughout
this year, even as the economy will post a full-year contraction
of 0.3 percent. As a result of the austerity measures, it cut
the 2011 growth forecast to 1.3 percent from 1.8 percent. The
International Monetary Fund forecasts a 0.4 percent contraction
in 2010, seeing a “weak and fragile” recovery with a risk of
worsening conditions, it said July 30.  
 Spending Cuts  
 As part of an accord reached by European leaders on May 10
to create a 750 billion-euro ($991 billion) financial backstop
for euro-region countries in difficulty, the prime minister
agreed to deeper spending cuts to narrow the budget deficit to 6
percent of GDP next year from 11.2 percent in 2009. Zapatero
slashed public wages 5 percent, while freezing pensions and
scrapping a subsidy for new mothers. The main rate of value-
added tax rose to 18 percent from 16 percent in July.  
 The Bank of Spain said the austerity measures were
“appropriate” even as the government should be ready to adopt
additional measures if budget targets “were to be in danger.”  
 Spain’s National Statistics Institute will give its
preliminary estimate of second-quarter GDP on Aug. 13.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Spain economy accelerated in second quater, bank says  
                       
                         
                           Markel Redondo/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Car-buying incentives boosted spending in the quarter, while an increase in sales tax in July encouraged consumers to bring forward purchases, the Bank of Spain said. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Car-buying incentives boosted spending in the quarter, while an increase in sales tax in July encouraged consumers to bring forward purchases, the Bank of Spain said. Photographer: Markel Redondo/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
