-- States' Attorneys General Challenging Health-Care Law Oppose Dismissal Bid
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-08-06T18:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/states-attorneys-general-challenging-health-care-law-oppose-dismissal-bid.html

          
          
             Attorneys general for 20 states
challenging the health-care law signed by President  Barack Obama 
filed court papers opposing a bid by the U.S. for dismissal of
the lawsuit.  
 “The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act represents
an unprecedented intrusion on the sovereignty of the states and
the freedom of their citizens,” according to the states’ brief
filed today with U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola,
Florida.  
 The health-care overhaul, signed into law by Obama on March
23, is intended extend the federal Medicaid program to cover 16
million more Americans, according to an estimate from the
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. The legislation, which
takes effect in 2014, will cost the states billions of dollars
to administer.  
 Thirteen of the 20 attorneys general sued to invalidate the
legislation the same day it was signed, arguing that the measure
placed an unfair burden on state budgets. The other states
joined later.  
 A separate complaint was filed by Virginia at the federal
courthouse in Richmond, asserting that an included mandate
directing individuals to obtain coverage was unconstitutional.  
 Lawyers for the U.S. on June 16 asked Vinson to throw out
the Pensacola case, saying it was prematurely filed and fails to
identify any injury suffered by the states.  
 Imminent Harm  
 The minimum-coverage provision of the law is within the
rights of Congress, the U.S. wrote in the filing. Any injuries
to state budgets fall short of the imminent harm required to
bring a claim, the government said.  
 “The provision will not take effect until 2014, and it is
entirely speculative whether the individual plaintiffs will be
injured,” the U.S. said.  
 The effective date “is fixed in the law and is certain to
occur,” the states said in their opposition to the dismissal
request.  
 Vinson has scheduled a non-jury trial in the case before
him for Sept. 14.  
 U.S. District Judge  Henry Hudson  in Richmond on Aug. 2
denied a federal government motion to dismiss that state’s case,
ruling that the issue of whether the U.S. has the authority to
compel an individual to purchase health insurance is a novel
issue upon which neither the U.S. Supreme Court nor any federal
courts of appeal have ruled.  
 The 20-state case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, 10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Florida (Pensacola). The smaller case is
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 10-cv-00188, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        