-- Swiss Franc Fluctuation This Morning Was Related to S&P Release, RBC Says
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-08-06T14:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/swiss-franc-fluctuation-this-morning-was-related-to-s-p-release-rbc-says.html

          
          
             The franc weakened and then rebounded
within minutes this morning after Standard & Poor’s withdrew
ratings on the Swiss central bank, spurring speculation that the
company’s statement was initially misinterpreted by investors.  
 S&P scrapped its assessment on the Swiss National Bank
because it “has no rated debt outstanding and, consequently,
because of the lack of market interest in the ratings,”  Moritz Kraemer , an analyst at the company, said in a statement. The
franc subsequently surged in afternoon European trading after a
report showed the U.S. lost more jobs than economists forecast.  
 “It coincided with S&P announcing that they were
withdrawing their rating on the SNB and I think there was a
kneejerk reaction to sell the franc on that,” said  Adam Cole ,
head of global foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank of Canada
in London. The move was, “on reflection, and it didn’t take
long to reflect, completely wrong as the announcement had no
meaning,” he said.  
 The Swiss currency depreciated as much as 0.4 percent to
1.3847 per euro at about 10:29 a.m. in London, when S&P’s first
of two statements was released. A second statement, with remarks
from Kraemer, was released three minutes later. The franc fell
as much as 0.5 percent to 1.0508 against the dollar at the same
time. The currency snapped back to its previous levels within
five minutes.  
 S&P said it continued to view the Swiss central bank’s
credit profile as identical to that of the country itself, which
also has a top rating. According to the 10:29 a.m. statement,
S&P had assigned the AAA long-term and A-1+ short-term ratings
to the SNB in February 1999 and hadn’t changed them since.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        