-- Swiss Finance Minister Hans-Rudolf Merz Says He Will Step Down in October
-- Paul Verschuur
-- 2010-08-06T13:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/swiss-finance-minister-hans-rudolf-merz-says-he-will-step-down-in-october.html

          
          
             Swiss Finance Minister  Hans-Rudolf Merz  said he will step down after seven years during which the
government helped rescue  UBS AG  from collapse and agreed to
weaken the country’s banking secrecy rules.  
 His resignation follows criticism from a parliamentary
panel about his handling of  UBS ’s problems during the financial
crisis and from the Social Democrats over his role in the Libya
hostage crisis. Merz suffered a heart attack in 2008.  
 “I had to take a lot of criticism,” the 67-year-old Free
Democrat told journalists in Bern today. “I believe a lot of it
wasn’t justified. But that’s the way of politics.”  
 After joining the Free Democrats, Merz became the party’s
local secretary in St. Gallen in 1969. He was elected to the
upper house of the Swiss parliament in 1997. Merz took over the
Finance Ministry from  Kaspar Villiger  in 2004 and held the
rotating Swiss presidency last year.  
 “Public finances have been strengthened,” and “that has
always been my main purpose,” he said today. Merz expects the
2010 budget to be “in the black” again after the country
posted a surplus last year.  
 After flying to Libya in summer 2009, Merz said that two
Swiss businessmen held in the North African country would
probably be freed soon. The release of the men was delayed into
this year after the Foreign Ministry took over the dossier.  
 Merz said he’s stepping down because most of the
outstanding issues including public finances, the Libya crisis
and the stabilization of UBS have been resolved.  
 Financial Crisis  
 In September 2008, at the height of the global financial
crisis and efforts to rescue UBS, Merz underwent a quintuple-
bypass operation following his heart attack. He was temporarily
replaced by Justice Minister  Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf  and
returned to office six weeks later.  
 Merz also agreed to weaken banking secrecy rules in
Switzerland as he tried to ease pressure on the country’s
offshore banking industry from trading partners including
Germany, the U.S. and France.  
 The government and the Swiss National Bank had to rescue
UBS from near-collapse in 2008 after the country’s biggest bank
piled up what at the time were the biggest losses of any
European lender from the global credit crisis. The following
year, the government struck an agreement with the U.S. to hand
over details of as many as 4,450 UBS account holders suspected
of evading taxes. Failure to reach an agreement could have
threatened UBS’s business in the U.S.  
 Parliamentary Panel  
 A parliamentary commission in May said Merz “never deemed
it important to keep the justice minister up to date about the
important issues of the Finance Ministry.”  
 “I didn’t cause the Libya and the UBS problems but I had
to deal with them,” Merz said today.  
 Merz studied at University of St. Gallen and wrote his
thesis on public finance in 1971. He later worked for Zurich-
based UBS and set himself up as a consultant.  
 The father of three sons is the second member of the Swiss
ruling coalition to step down this year. Transport and
Environment Minister  Moritz Leuenberger  said last month that
he’ll resign from his post at the end of the year.  
 The parliament will vote on the successors later this year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Verschuur  in Bern at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        