-- U.S. Credit Risk Index Rises Following Weaker-Than-Expected Payrolls Data
-- Shannon D. Harrington
-- 2010-08-06T21:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/u-s-credit-risk-index-rises-following-weaker-than-expected-payrolls-data.html

          
          
             A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk rose the most in more than a week after a report
showed private employers added fewer jobs than economists
forecast.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series
14, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 2.4 basis points
to a mid-price of 104 basis points as of 4:58 p.m. in New York,
after earlier dropping to as low as 100.8, according to Markit
Group Ltd. Swaps on American Express Co., the biggest U.S.
credit-card issuer by purchases, climbed for the third day.  
 The index, which reached a 12-week low of 99.1 basis points
on Aug. 2, rose as the Labor Department report showed private
payrolls that exclude government agencies increased by 71,000
workers, less than the median forecast by economists, after a
gain of 31,000 in June that was smaller than previously
reported. The index typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves.  
 “The U.S. has an increasing structural unemployment
problem, a new normal structural problem that suggests that our
long-term unemployment rate will at its lowest be 7 percent
instead of 4,”  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a Bloomberg
Radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“The jobs that were will not be coming back and the
unemployment rate at 4.5 percent is really a fiction of the
levered era as opposed to the reality of the new normal.”  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 American Express Swaps  
 In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings climbed 2.1 basis points to 103.7,
Markit prices show.  
 Contracts on New York-based American Express rose 3.2 basis
points to 83.9 basis points, the highest in two weeks, according
to data provider CMA.  
 Credit swaps on  BP Plc  dropped to the lowest since June 4
as it finished cementing a plug at the top of the well that
spewed an estimated 4.9 million barrels of crude in the Gulf of
Mexico.  
 BP five-year contracts declined 3 basis points to 227 basis
points and have dropped 94 basis points since July 30, according
to CMA.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        