-- SEC Rift on When to Claw Back Bonus May Leave Policy in Limbo
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-08-06T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/u-s-regulators-said-to-debate-when-it-s-appropriate-to-claw-back-bonuses.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is divided over when to seize pay from executives who
unwittingly benefit from accounting fraud, a rift that has
triggered internal disagreements over cases, according to people
with direct knowledge of the matter.  
 As recently as May,  the SEC’s enforcement division  was
working toward a policy that would have limited so-called claw-
back actions to times when the executive is implicated in the
violations, according to people with direct knowledge of the
matter.  
 Commissioner  Luis Aguilar  objected to his colleagues that
the plan would hinder the SEC’s ability to recoup pay based on
inflated profits, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the deliberations weren’t public. Last week,  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s enforcement director, sent an e-mail to
agency officials saying he would stop using the preliminary
guidelines, the people said.  
 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 gave the SEC power to seize
payouts to chief executive officers and chief financial officers
at companies that restate earnings “as a result of
misconduct.” Congress pushed companies to take similar steps in
the new financial-regulatory bill.  
 “Executives have no rightful claim to money that was paid
under a mistake,” said  James Cox , a law professor at Duke
University in Durham, North Carolina. “A bonus that was
premised on numbers that later turned out to be wrong because of
fraud is an unjust enrichment.”  
 $4.1 Million  
 The SEC’s five commissioners have been arguing over how to
use the clawback authority since July 2009, when the regulator
demanded that  Maynard Jenkins  reimburse Phoenix-based CSK Auto
Corp. for $4.1 million in incentive and stock-based pay he got
as CEO between 2002 and 2006. The case marked the first time the
agency invoked the Sarbanes-Oxley clause to seize compensation
from an executive not accused of violating securities laws.  
 Since then the SEC has sent mixed signals. When the SEC in
June accused  Diebold Inc.  of using fraudulent accounting to
inflate earnings, the company’s former CEO,  Walden O’Dell ,
agreed to give up more than $470,000 in bonuses, 30,000 shares
of stock and options for 85,000 shares. He wasn’t accused of
participating in the misconduct.  
 The SEC in July didn’t claw back pay from  Michael Dell 
after alleging that  Dell Inc.  misled investors about how it met
earnings targets and using fraudulent accounting to pad
financial results. Michael Dell, the company’s founder, chairman
and CEO, wasn’t implicated in transactions that prompted the
computer maker to lower earnings from 2003 through the first
quarter of 2007 by $92 million. He agreed to pay $4 million over
alleged disclosure violations.  
 Navistar  
 The SEC yesterday invoked Sarbanes-Oxley in recouping more
than $2 million of bonuses paid to the CEO and former CFO of
 Navistar International Corp. , a manufacturer of trucks and
school buses accused of overstating its earnings. The executives
“were causes of Navistar’s internal control violations,” the
SEC said in a statement.  
 The enforcement division’s efforts in May to come up with
guidelines ran into objections from Aguilar, a 56-year-old
Democrat, the people familiar with the matter said. In protest
he began sitting out votes on cases that invoked the Sarbanes-
Oxley provision, the people said.  
 Aguilar and SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  
 Party Lines  
 When the SEC used the law in the Jenkins case it split the
agency’s commissioners on party lines, people familiar with the
matter said at the time.  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , 55, a political independent,
joined Aguilar and Democrat  Elisse Walter  in voting to sue
Jenkins to recoup bonuses and stock-sale profits he received
after other CSK executives allegedly inflated the company’s
earnings.  
 Republicans  Kathleen Casey  and  Troy Paredes  opposed the
case, arguing that the SEC shouldn’t go after bonuses when an
executive didn’t orchestrate a fraud and may not have known it
was occurring.  
 Jenkins, who retired from CSK in 2007, is fighting the SEC.
In June, a federal judge in Phoenix rebuffed his efforts to have
the case dismissed.  
 Executives can be forced to “reimburse additional
compensation received during periods of corporate non-compliance
regardless of whether or not they were aware of the
misconduct,” U.S. District Judge Murray Snow wrote in his 15-
page decision.  
 Corporations are eager for clues on the SEC’s standards as
the agency pursues a wave of investigations stemming from the
financial crisis, said  Mark Schonfeld , who stepped down as the
head of the SEC’s New York office in 2008.  
 ‘Risk of Abuse’  
 “A CEO can never know whether his compensation is at risk
because somebody, somewhere at the company is doing something
wrong,” said Schonfeld, who’s now a partner at  Gibson Dunn &
Crutcher LLP  in New York. “In the absence of some articulated
standard there is a pervasive risk of abuse.”  
 Congress approved the Sarbanes-Oxley Act eight years ago in
response to a series of accounting scandals at companies
including Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc. that eroded investor
confidence. Lawmakers responding to public fury over Wall Street
pay included a stronger clawback provision in the financial-
regulation overhaul that President  Barack Obama  signed last
month.  
 Under the new law, executive officers must return three
years of bonuses and stock options “in excess of what would
have been paid” when their employers restate financial results
because of “material noncompliance” with securities laws.  
 The law also instructs the SEC to write rules that bar
companies from listing shares on stock exchanges if they don’t
have guidelines to retrieve pay.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top legal stories: TLAW <GO>
More fraud cases: NI FRAUD <GO>
Crime stories: NI CRIME <GO>
SEC news: NI SEC <GO>
Top financial stories: FTOP <GO>
Banking and finance law: BLBF <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Luis Aguilar  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman 
                         
                         Luis Aguilar, a commissioner at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, speaks at an SEC meeting in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Luis Aguilar, a commissioner at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, speaks at an SEC meeting in Washington.  Photographer: Brendan Hoffman  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Mike Lenhoff, chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd., speaks about the outlook for U.S. payrolls data and the economy.
     He talks with Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Robert Khuzami  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Robert Khuzami, director of enforcement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, listens to a question during the Bloomberg Washington Summit in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Robert Khuzami, director of enforcement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, listens to a question during the Bloomberg Washington Summit in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
