-- U.S. Says Countries `Backtracking' on Copenhagen Climate Change Agreement
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-08-06T17:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/u-s-says-countries-backtracking-on-copenhagen-climate-change-agreement.html

          
          
             The U.S. is concerned that envoys at
United Nations climate talks are “backtracking” on an
agreement made in 2009 in Copenhagen, the country’s lead
negotiator at the talks said.  
 Some nations are demanding “staggering sums” of money
beyond the $100 billion pledged in Copenhagen to help them adapt
to climate change, and others want carbon dioxide reductions to
apply only to industrialized countries, said  Jonathan Pershing ,
the State Department official heading the U.S. delegation.  
 The moves make it less likely delegates will agree on
broader measures to rein in greenhouse gases and channel funds
to poor nations when this year’s round of talks conclude in
December in Cancun, Mexico, Pershing said. His comments
coincided with wildfires brought on by drought in Russia and
flooding in Pakistan that stranded 4 million people, freak
weather events that scientists say will become more frequent.  
 “If we proceed on the route we are now on, there is no
hope for an agreement” in Cancun, said Pershing. “All parties
seem to be having a difficult time coming to convergence and the
text is larger than it has to be.”  
 Expanding Text  
 Delegates from about 190 countries this week in Bonn piled
new demands into draft texts in both negotiating tracks. Two
draft proposals offered legal options on how to avoid a gap
between the end of the Kyoto Protocol in 2012 and a future
agreement, said  Christiana Figueres , the UN diplomat leading the
talks. She said delegates must now narrow the options that more
senior ministers will face in Cancun.  
 “It’s difficult to cook a meal without a pot,” she said.
“Governments are closer now to making the pot, and that is what
they have achieved here in Bonn.”  
 The envoys reopened debates that were resolved in the
Copenhagen Accord, including approaches toward cutting emissions
between industrialized and developing countries and how to
measure and verify greenhouse gas output.  
 “If we can close the text with no more new ideas -- let’s
save that for another century -- then we can move forward,”
said Grenada’s Dessima Williams, who represents the Alliance of
Small Island States. “The negotiations are not matching the
scientific reports, and they are too slow and not sufficiently
responsive to the urgency we see on the ground.”  
 Temperature Rising  
 Current pledges by all nations remain insufficient to limit
the average increase in global temperature to 2 degrees Celsius
(3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), which was also agreed to in Copenhagen
last year. The UN estimates that commitments amount to a cut of
12 percent to 19 percent from 1990 levels, short of the 25 to 40
percent needed.  
 “What is happening now reminds me of what was happening
last year,” said  Artur Runge-Metzger , the European Commission’s
lead climate negotiator. “It seems to me like a broken
record.”  
 Negotiators are also struggling with the fact that it may
be years before the U.S. passes domestic laws on limiting
emissions, said  Christoph Bals , executive director of policy at
the environmental group Germanwatch and an executive board
member of the Munich Climate Insurance Initiative.  
 “The U.S. is casting a long shadow on the talks,” Bals
said. “For the next few years it will be up to China and the EU
to take a leadership role.”  
 U.S. Reluctance  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  unveiled a scaled down
energy bill on July 22 that failed to contain a carbon cap for
the electricity industry, a carbon emissions trading system or
renewable energy targets. The U.S. delegation remains committed
to its target to cut CO2 emissions by about 17 percent by 2020
from 2005 levels, Pershing said today.  
 At stake are decisions on investments worth trillions of
dollars in clean energy, efficiency and transportation
equipment, including an estimated $26 trillion for the power
sector alone through 2030, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  
 Some nations need to make proposals instead of criticizing
what industrial nations are offering, said Mohamed Adow, an
observer with non-governmental group Christian Aid.  
 “We need to regain the spirit of compromise in order to
move forward,” he said.  
 Business leaders including  General Electric Co . Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Immelt  and Duke Energy Corp.’s Chief
Executive Jim Rogers have pushed for comprehensive legislation,
highlighting the risks of inaction for the U.S. economy.
Investment decisions are made more difficult because of
uncertainties over potential cost of energy if carbon emissions
are regulated, they’ve said.  
 “The question is what’s next?” said Norine Kennedy, vice
president of energy and environment affairs at the U.S. Council
for International Business whose members include GE and  Coca-
Cola Co . “We have to find a way to move forward.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 9 (Bloomberg) -- Nick Robins, head of the Climate Change Centre of Excellence at HSBC Holdings Plc, discusses the prospects for a global agreement on tackling climate change when delegates meet in December in Cancun, Mexico.
     He talks with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg Television's "Start Up." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
