-- U.S. Stocks Drop After Weaker-Than-Estimated Jobs Report
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-08-06T20:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/u-s-stock-futures-advance-before-payrolls-report-kraft-gains.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks  tumbled, paring a weekly
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after weaker-than-
forecast growth in company payrolls suggested a rebound in
corporate profits may stall.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and International Business Machines
Corp. led the Dow Jones Industrial Average lower after private-
sector payroll growth fell short of estimates. EOG Resources
Inc. tumbled 3.1 percent following earnings that trailed
estimates. Equities pared losses as the Federal Housing
Administration said it plans to begin accepting applications for
a program to help struggling mortgage borrowers.  
 The S&P 500 Index fell 0.4 percent to 1,121.64 at 4 p.m. in
New York, paring its weekly advance to 1.8 percent. The Dow
dropped 21.42 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,653.56 after earlier
tumbling as much as 160 points. Treasury yields slid, sending
the two-year rate below 0.5 percent for the first time, on lower
expectations for economic growth and inflation.  
 “As these employment gains are very modest and suggest
that the economy is slowing in the second half of this year and
into next year, that’s going to slow sales growth, which
ultimately will feed back into the bottom line of profit
growth,” said  Jeffrey Kleintop , chief market strategist at LPL
Financial Corp. in Boston, which manages $280 billion. “In the
long-term you can’t sustain a profit recovery without hiring.”  
 Jobs Concern  
 U.S. index futures erased gains before the open of
exchanges as the government said the number of Americans on
company payrolls rose by 71,000 in July after a gain of 31,000
in June that was smaller than previously reported. Economists
projected a 90,000 rise in private-sector jobs last month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Overall employment, including government workers, fell by
131,000 as the Census Bureau cut temporary jobs, and the
unemployment rate held at 9.5 percent.  
 JPMorgan Chase, the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
declined 2 percent to $40.44. IBM, the world’s biggest computer-
services company, dropped 0.8 percent to $130.14.  
 EOG Resources fell 3.1 percent to $99.26. The oil and
natural gas producer reported second-quarter profit excluding
some items of 18 cents a share,  31 percent less  than the average
of 23 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Harman International Industries Inc. declined 12 percent to
$29.88 for the  biggest drop  in the S&P 500. The maker of audio
systems for homes and vehicles posted fourth-quarter profit
excluding some items of 30 cents a share, trailing the average
analyst estimate by 6.3 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Washington Post Tumbles  
 Washington Post Co. fell 7.6 percent to $377.56, its
biggest drop since May 2009. The newspaper publisher said
proposed U.S. Department of Education rules could “have a
material adverse effect” on its Kaplan unit, which makes up
 more than 60 percent  of earnings.  
 Activision Blizzard Inc. slid 6.5 percent to $10.99. The
largest video-game publisher said sales this quarter will be
$725 million, excluding changes in deferred revenue. Analysts
estimated sales of $914.5 million on average. The company
forecast adjusted earnings of 8 cents a share, below the 12-cent
average estimate.  
 Equities pared losses late in the session as the Federal
Housing Administration said it will begin accepting applications
Sept. 7 for its program to help borrowers who owe more on their
mortgages than their homes are worth. The Short Refinance
program encourages lenders to forgive 10 percent or more of the
balance of a mortgage so the loans can be refinanced at a lower
interest rate. That would remove the troubled loans from the
lender’s books and allow borrowers to lower their payments.  
 Earnings Watch  
 The S&P 500 advanced this week as companies from Humana
Inc. to Allergan Inc. reported profit that topped analyst
estimates. Earnings beat the average analyst estimate at more
than three-quarters of the S&P 500 companies that have reported
second-quarter results so far, helping send the benchmark up as
much as 10 percent from its low for the year on July 2.  
 Kraft Foods Inc. and American International Group Inc.
gained today after reporting better-than-expected results. Kraft
Foods, the maker of Oreo cookies and Maxwell House coffee, rose
2.4 percent to $30.36. AIG, the insurer rescued by the U.S. in
November 2008, gained 2.6 percent to $40.93. Separately, AIG
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said the insurer is in
talks with regulators to become independent.  
 PerkinElmer Inc. rose the most in the S&P 500, climbing 11
percent to $22.29. The provider of equipment for genetic
screening and drug research boosted its full-year  forecast  after
second-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates.  
 ‘Huge Recovery’  
 “We’ve had a huge recovery in corporate profits mostly due
to cost-cutting,” said  Brian Lazorishak , senior quantitative
analyst at Chase Investment Counsel Corp. in Charlottesville,
Virginia, which manages $1.5 billion.“There’s been some revenue
growth, but it’s been muted. There needs to be revenue growth
for corporate America to improve profits, and we haven’t really
seen that.”  
 The 443 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported second-
quarter results earned an aggregate $21.45 a share excluding
some items, the highest total since the second quarter of 2007,
when index operating profit peaked at $24.06 a share, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and S&P.  
 Sales per share, forecast by S&P to total $235.54 this
quarter, have recovered less than 7 percent from a three-year
low of $221.8 a share in the first quarter of 2009, according to
data compiled by S&P. The peak, in the second quarter of 2008,
was $278.53 a share.  
 Growth Slowdown  
 The U.S. economy has expanded for four straight quarters
after shrinking for five of the previous six as the collapse of
the subprime mortgage industry triggered the worst contraction
since the Great Depression. Growth slowed to 2.4 percent in the
first quarter from 3.7 percent at the end of 2009, spurring
concern the nation is at risk of entering another recession as
government stimulus programs expire.  
 Earlier this week, reports on consumer spending, pending
home sales and factory orders in June were all weaker than
economists estimated. The Federal Reserve will provide an update
on interest rate policy and its assessment of the economy on
Aug. 10.  
 Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph E. Stiglitz  said the
U.S. economic recovery is “anemic” and called for a second
round of “better-designed” stimulus.  
 “The recovery is so weak that it is not strong enough to
generate new jobs for the new entrants in the labor force, let
alone to find jobs for the 15 million Americans who would like a
job and can’t get one,” Stiglitz told Bloomberg Television in
an interview in Sydney yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A trader on the floor of the NYSE  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Gigi Stone reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks tumbled, paring a weekly advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after weaker-than-forecast growth in company payrolls suggested a rebound in corporate profits may stall. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Stephen P. Wood, chief market strategist at Russell Investments, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his investment strategy.
     Speaking from New York, Wood also discusses the U.S. economy and job market. U.S. stocks slipped, pulling the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down from an almost three-month high, as an unexpected increase in jobless claims fueled concern the economic recovery is slowing. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at BNY ConvergEx Group LLC, and Michael Gurka, a trader at BruinHill Partners, discuss the outlook for the U.S. economy, stock and bond markets, and investment strategy.
     They speak with Matt Miller, Lizzie O'Leary, Dominic Chu and Adam Johnson on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
