-- U.S., Vietnam Hold Nuclear Technology Talks as Suitors Vie for Contracts
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-08-06T11:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/u-s-vietnam-hold-talks-on-sharing-nuclear-fuel-drawing-china-criticism.html

          
          
             The U.S. and Vietnam are holding
negotiations on sharing nuclear fuel and civilian nuclear
technology, an agreement that will enable American companies to
invest in the Southeast Asian country’s atomic industry.  
 The talks build on a March  agreement  between the countries
to expand cooperation on peaceful nuclear energy that may aid
U.S. companies such as  General Electric Co . Vietnam said in June
it plans to build as many as 13 nuclear power plants with a
capacity of 16,000 megawatts over the next two decades.  
 The discussions come after President  Barack Obama  won
commitments in April from 46 nations to lock down nuclear
material and keep it away from terrorists. As part of those
efforts, the U.S. is pushing for fewer countries to enrich
uranium, a point with which Vietnam currently agrees.  
 “Vietnam doesn’t intend to enrich as of now because of
expensive and very sensitive technology,” Vuong Huu Tan,
president of the government-affiliated  Vietnam Atomic Energy
Institute , said by phone today. “Vietnam doesn’t want to make
its international relations complicated.”  
 Authorities in Hanoi are reviewing draft documents of the
deal before seeking Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung ’s approval,
Tan said. Negotiations between the two countries haven’t started
yet, according to a faxed statement from the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs in Hanoi today.  
 The U.S. is seeking to promote “the appropriate use of
civilian nuclear energy under strict international
supervision,” State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said
in Washington yesterday. U.S. law requires a so-called 123
Agreement for Peaceful Cooperation for exports of nuclear
material, equipment or components. Such  agreements  are already
in place with most of Europe and about 20 other countries,
including China and India.  
 Seeking Contracts  
 Russian, Japanese, Chinese, French and U.S. companies are
vying for contracts to build nuclear plants in Vietnam. The
country may face a shortage of almost 1 billion kilowatt-hours
of electricity this year with consumption possibly increasing as
much as 18 percent, the government said April 6.  
 Japan’s Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  will visit Hanoi
this month with executives from companies such as Toshiba Corp.
and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. to win business, Nikkei
reported yesterday. Earlier this year,  China’s Guangdong Nuclear
Power Group Co. , the nation’s No. 2 reactor builder, signed a
nuclear cooperation agreement with Vietnam.  
 China acknowledges that all countries have the right to
develop nuclear technology for peaceful purposes so long as they
meet their obligations not to engage in proliferation,  Jiang Yu ,
a spokeswoman for the Foreign Ministry, said in a faxed response
to questions about the talks.  
 ‘Double Standards’  
 Negotiations with Vietnam show “double standards” by the
U.S. as it promotes denuclearization, the China Daily newspaper
cited Teng Jianqun, deputy-director of the China Arms Control
and Disarmament Association, as saying yesterday. Vietnam is one
of 189 countries that are party to the NPT.  
 Russia’s Rosatom Corp. was selected to build Vietnam’s
first nuclear power plant, Ngo Dang Nhan, director general of
the Vietnam Agency for Radiation and Nuclear Safety, said June
17. The value of the deal with Moscow-based Rosatom, Russia’s
state atomic energy corporation, wasn’t disclosed.  
 The Obama administration has pushed exports of civilian
nuclear equipment as part of efforts to double U.S. exports
during the next five years to about $3.1 trillion, supporting 2
million additional jobs. Commerce Department officials last
month held a  trade mission  to Slovakia, Poland and the Czech
Republic to boost sales of nuclear energy products.  
 More 123 agreements would help U.S. companies such as  GE 
and Westinghouse Electric Company LLC compete for contracts
across Asia. The U.S. is in talks with other countries on the
agreements, Crowley said, without naming them.  
 UAE Accord  
 The “gold standard” of nuclear technology deals is an
agreement the U.S. negotiated with the United Arab Emirates last
year, Crowley said. As part of that arrangement, the Persian
Gulf state decided “that it would forgo the right of enrichment
that every country in the world has,” he said.  
 The U.S. negotiates such agreements on a country-by-country
and region-by-region basis, Crowley said. He indicated that the
U.S. would like to see Vietnam take the same approach as the UAE,
and forgo the possibility of enriching uranium, which can be
used to make nuclear weapons.  
 “We certainly want to see other countries make that same
kind of decision and that same kind of agreement,” he said.  
 The U.S. and Vietnam established diplomatic relations 15
years ago after ending a war in 1975 that killed 58,000 U.S.
soldiers and more than 3 million Vietnamese. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. is ready to take relations with
Vietnam to a “new level” during a visit to Hanoi last month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Vietnam Nuclear Power  
                       
                         
                           Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         President Barack Obama greets Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung during the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, D.C. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     President Barack Obama greets Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung during the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
