-- UBS Plans Brazil Investment Bank as Gruebel Builds Emerging-Market Revenue
-- Laura Price
-- 2010-08-06T14:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/ubs-plans-brazil-investment-bank-as-gruebel-builds-emerging-market-revenue.html

          
          
             UBS AG , Switzerland’s largest bank,
plans to set up an investment bank in Brazil to rebuild its
business in Latin America’s biggest economy after selling a unit
in the country last year to raise capital.  
 The unit, with initial capital of 46 million reais ($26.2
million), will be called UBS Brasil Banco de Investimento SA and
controlled by UBS through a holding company, according a letter
of intent filed to Brazil’s central bank yesterday.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  said last week the
Zurich-based bank wants to generate “substantial revenues”
from emerging markets in coming years. UBS agreed in April to
buy  Brazilian brokerage  firm Link Investimentos to gain some
licenses for doing business in the country.  
 “It will be beneficial for UBS to be in Brazil as growth
in the future will come from Asia and Latin America,” said
 Teresa Nielsen , an analyst with Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich,
who has a “buy” recommendation on the shares. “UBS has big
operations in Asia already, but what they’re missing is Latin
America.”  
 Brazil’s economy is expected to grow 7.2 percent this year,
based on a central bank survey published Aug. 2. Sales of
domestic debt by Brazilian companies this year amounted to 14.4
billion reais, exceeding the total for all of last year, which
at 11.4 billion reais was double the level of 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. UBS ranks 13th among underwriters of
equity and equity-linked offerings by Brazilian companies this
year, down from seventh in 2008. Equity and equity-linked sales
rose 21 percent in 2009 to $26.3 billion, the data show.  
 ‘Difficult’ to Re-enter  
 UBS has to regain licenses to do business in Brazil after
selling its Pactual operations to  Andre Esteves , the former head
of the business, for $2.5 billion in 2009, less than three years
after buying the unit. The Swiss bank will now have to compete
with Pactual and other rivals, who are expanding in the country.  
 “This will be a difficult market to re-enter,” Nielsen
said. “Perhaps the current set-up of buying a small unit and
bringing its own people who are in agreement with management on
business strategy will be a better solution for UBS than Pactual
was.”  
 Banco Votorantim SA, the financial services division of
Grupo Votorantim, plans to boost its investment-banking team by
50 percent this year,  Alberto Kiraly , head of the unit, said in
a June 2 interview in Sao Paulo. The lender was involved in
mergers and acquisitions worth 16.7 billion reais in 2009,
according to its annual report.  
 Biggest in a Decade  
 Banco Bradesco BBI SA, the investment-banking arm of Banco
Bradesco, is seeking to hire as many as 45 people in 2010 to
boost its team of 1,000, Valor Economico newspaper reported on
June 28.  
 Banco Modal SA, a Brazilian bank that specializes in mid-
cap companies, plans to boost its team by 12 percent this year
to expand its international, private-equity and wealth-
management businesses, according to  Eduardo de Abreu Borges ,
head of the international and wealth-management divisions.  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the state-controlled oil company
planning to raise as much as $25 billion from investors, hired
Banco do Brasil SA in June to manage its domestic share sale,
which would be the biggest in the Western Hemisphere in at least
a decade. Banco Bradesco SA, Citigroup Inc., Itau Unibanco
Holding SA, Bank of America Corp. Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley
and Banco Santander SA were chosen as the global coordinators of
the sale.  
 Banco do Brasil, Latin America’s largest bank by assets,
hired BB Investimentos SA, Banco BTG Pactual SA, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to help
it sell 9.76 billion reais of shares last month, the biggest
stock sale in eight months.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     UBS CEO Chief Oswald Gruebel said the Zurich-based bank wants to generate “substantial revenues” from emerging markets in coming years. Photographer: Reto Andreoli/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
