-- Ukrainian Farmers Oppose Curbs on Grain Exports After Russia's Export Ban
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-08-06T11:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/ukrainian-farmers-oppose-curbs-on-grain-exports-after-russia-s-export-ban.html

          
          
             Ukrainian farmers and agricultural
traders said they oppose curbs on grain exports after customs
officials increased inspections, slowing shipments, and Russia
suspended foreign sales of wheat, barley, rye, corn and flour.  
 “We are able to export around 16 million metric tons,”
Ukrainian Agrarian Confederation President  Leonid Kozachenko 
said in Kiev today. “This is not going to hurt the country. If
we ban exports, we will ruin the market and cause tens of
billions in losses for agricultural producers.”  
 Extra inspections at ports and imposed by state-run railway
monopoly Ukrzaliznytsya delayed about half a million tons of
exports and caused about $1 million of losses to traders, he
said. Grain exports slid 64 percent in July from a year earlier.  
 Wheat traded in Chicago extended a rally to the highest
price in 23 months yesterday on Prime Minister Vladimir Putin’s
order to halt exports from Aug. 15 until Dec. 31. Drought and
record heat forced the country to declare a state of emergency
in 28 crop-producing regions. Putin proposed that Kazakhstan and
Belarus, Russia’s partners in a customs union, join the ban.  
 Ukraine introduced licenses and quotas for grain exports in
October 2006 to try to avoid a local shortage after the harvest
underperformed following unusually cold weather. The country
extended curbs on exports in 2007 as a three-month drought cut
the harvest to 29.3 million tons, the smallest crop since 2003.  
 The government is worried about possible price increases
for bread, dairy products, eggs and meat after domestic grain
costs began to rise, particularly after the Russian government’s
decision to ban grain exports, Kozachenko said.  
 “Prices for wheat have increased between 30 hryvnia
($3.80) and 50 hryvnia a day in the domestic market,”  Liza Malyshko , an analyst at Kiev-based UkrAgroConsult, said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        