-- Muni Sales Set One-Month Low of $6.7 Billion as Yields Decline to Record
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-08-06T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/muni-sales-set-one-month-low-of-6-7-billion-as-yields-decline-to-record.html

          
          
             Municipal borrowers this week sold
about $6.71 billion in debt, the lowest in a month, as yields on
10-year maturities reached a record low.  
 This week’s total was composed of about $1.53 billion in
taxable debt, including Build America Bond sales of about $867
million, down from last week’s total of $2.41 billion that was
boosted by the Texas Transportation Commission’s sale of $1.38
billion in the federally subsidized debt. Ten-year yields
dropped to a record-low of  2.85 percent , according to data
compiled since January 2001 by Concord, Massachusetts-based
Municipal Market Advisors.  
 “Yields are so low that it may be inhibiting some of the
buyers out there,” said  Chris Holmes , a fixed-income strategist
for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  
 Thirty-day visible supply of municipal bonds yesterday was
$7.81 billion, about 27 percent less than this year’s average,
and next week’s scheduled issuance is lower still at $3.95
billion, which would be the smallest in a five-day week this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Investors are looking harder at lower-rated credits and
“don’t mind taking the chance because they don’t want to put
their money in low-yielding cash products,” Holmes said.
“They’re willing to go down in credit to pick up that extra
spread.”  
 The difference between 10-year A- debt and 30-year AAA debt
increased to 44 basis points from 34 at the start of July,
Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Tax-Exempts  
 Regional Transportation District , which manages mass-
transit operations in and around Denver and was rated Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service, the lowest investment, this week
issued about $398 million in tax-exempt debt. The funds were
scheduled to be spent on capital improvements, including two
rail lines.  
 Top-rated credits, such as Minnesota and the New York City
Transitional Finance Authority, both rated AAA by Standard &
Poor’s, also sold this week. New York City’s offer swelled to
$900 million as demand for Build America Bonds increased 31
percent to $614 million. Issuers have sold about $126 billion in
Build Americas since the program began last year. Low yields and
questions about the future of the instruments should increase
supply in the fourth quarter, Holmes said.  
 “Issuers will be taking advantage of the higher subsidy,”
he said, referring to the 35 percent currently refunded by the
federal government. If the Build America program is continued
through 2012, that figure may drop to 32 percent in 2011 and
then 30 percent thereafter.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 OHIO WATER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY , which provides financial
assistance to local municipalities for water-related projects,
plans to sell about $451 million in tax-exempt bonds as soon as
next week. The securities, top-rated by both S&P and Moody’s,
will be used to refinance debt. Morgan Stanley will lead a group
marketing the sale. (Added Aug. 5)  
 PORTLAND, OREGON , the second-largest city in the Pacific
Northwest by population, plans to sell $412 million in revenue
bonds as early as next week to pay for capital improvements to
the city’s sewer system. The securities, with maturities from
2011 to 2035, will be sold competitively, and are rated by S&P
at AA, its third-highest grade, and one level lower by Moody’s,
at Aa3. (Added Aug. 6)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        