-- Universal Music Pulls Videos From MTV Websites as Advertising Talks Fail
-- Anthony Palazzo
-- 2010-08-06T23:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/universal-music-pulls-videos-from-mtv-websites-as-advertising-talks-fail.html

          
          
             Vivendi SA ’s Universal Music Group,
the world’s largest record company, pulled its videos from
Viacom Inc.’s MTV websites after talks failed on a new
syndication agreement.  
 Vevo , the online video site co-owned by Universal, was
negotiating to install its advertising-supported video player on
the websites of Viacom’s MTV, VH1 and CMT cable channels, two
people with knowledge of the situation said. The talks broke
down over control of ads elsewhere on the sites, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the talks are private.  
 The dispute highlights the growing influence of Vevo,
created last year by New York-based Universal with  Sony Music
Entertainment  and Abu Dhabi Media Co. The site, powered by
Google Inc.’s YouTube, added EMI Group in December to gain
content from three of the four biggest record companies. The
service plans to syndicate the videos to other Internet sites.  
 “During our recent discussions with Vevo, we were unable
to reach a fair and equitable agreement for rights to stream UMG
artists’ music video content,” New York-based MTV Networks said
today in a statement. “As a result, UMG has elected to pull
their music videos from our websites.”  
 Universal’s agreement with the MTV sites expired in July,
said one of the people. The dispute doesn’t affect access to
video footage by MTV’s cable channels, the people said.  
 Vevo was developed under  Doug Morris , the co-chief
executive officer of Universal, which handles acts including
 Lady Gaga . He plans to the step down as co-CEO at the end of the
year, while remaining chairman.  
 Vevo Users  
 The site, featuring material such as music videos, concert
footage and interviews, allows record labels to attract premium-
prices for ads while controlling how music is viewed and
distributed online, Morris said in a December interview.  
 Since its December debut, Vevo has become the Web’s
No. 1-rated music video provider with more than 49 million
unique visitors a month and attracts tens of millions in
advertising dollars, Universal said today. The site has reached
agreements to provide music videos to companies including AOL
Inc. and CBS Interactive.  
 “Our artists are enjoying tremendous exposure on Vevo on
Youtube and Vevo.com, and will enjoy even more as Vevo continues
to complete syndication deals,” Universal said.  
 Vivendi , which also owns a controlling interest in video-
game publisher Activision Blizzard Inc., lost 41 cents to 18.26
euros today in Paris and has declined 12 percent this year.  
 Viacom, the New York-based media company controlled by
 Sumner Redstone , fell 10 cents to $33.60 in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading  and has gained 13 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anthony Palazzo  in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        