-- Vale Planning to Sell Shares in Fertilizer Unit After Bunge Deal, CEO Says
-- Peter Millard
-- 2010-08-06T16:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/vale-may-combine-brazil-fertilizer-assets-sell-shares-ceo-agnelli-says.html

          
          
             Vale SA , the world’s third-largest
mining company, may combine Brazilian fertilizer assets and sell
shares in the new unit as early as this year after spending $4.7
billion to acquire holdings from Bunge Ltd. and other producers.  
 “We have to organize the structure and show it to the
market,” Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli  said today at an
event in Rio de Janeiro. “Minority investors want this.”  
 Vale this year acquired a controlling stake in
Fertilizantes Fosfatados SA, or  Fosfertil , from Bunge and other
companies, as well as other Bunge fertilizer assets in Brazil.  
 Major mining companies have sought a bigger stake of the
global fertilizer business as Chinese-led demand for
agricultural commodities boosts the use of crop additives.  BHP
Billiton Ltd.  acquired Athabasca Potash Inc. in March and may
start potash production at its Jansen mine in Canada in 2015.  
 Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s government
has sought to push mining companies to tap their fertilizer
deposits in the country as part of efforts to make the country
self-sufficient in crop additives within a decade.  
 Companies in Brazil may have to develop mines within a set
period of time or risk losing their rights to deposits under
regulation proposed by the government. Under current rules,
concessions never expire.  
 The proposed changes to mining concession rules follow
Lula’s efforts to boost government control over offshore oil
reserves and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  after the company’s
discovery of the Tupi field, the biggest oil find in the
Americas since 1976.  
 Peru Expansion  
 Vale is also seeking to expand fertilizer production in
Peru. Agnelli said yesterday that Vale plans a $300 million
expansion of the Bayovar phosphate mine in Peru along with
partners Mosaic Co. and Mitsui & Co. and may build a plant to
process the mineral into fertilizer.  
 Vale  fell  0.7 percent to 43.80 reais in Sao Paulo trading
at 11:55 a.m. New York time. Fosfertil fell 0.9 percent to 16.15
reais.  
 BHP is the world’s biggest mining company and Rio Tinto
Group is the second-largest.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        