-- Wheat's Advance Revives Food Crisis Concern
-- Luzi Ann Javier
-- 2010-08-06T09:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/wheat-price-jump-revives-concern-over-food-crisis-asia-s-top-buyer-says.html

          
          
             The world may face another food
crisis if the surge in wheat sparked by Russia’s export ban
drives the prices of other staples higher, according to an
executive from Indonesia, Asia’s largest buyer of the grain.  
 “There will be a domino reaction and we expect corn demand
will rise, pushing prices higher, and feed industries will buy
more corn and soybeans,”  Franciscus Welirang , chairman of the
Flour Mills Association in Indonesia, said in an interview today.
“It’s the end of cheap wheat.”  
 Russia’s ban, announced yesterday as supplies shrink in a
heat wave, has helped wheat to double in less than two months
and sent the grain to the highest price since August 2008. Wheat
touched a record that year, along with rice, pushing up food
costs and triggering riots in poorer states including Egypt.  
 Another global food crisis “is what we worry about in the
fourth quarter or first quarter of next year,” Welirang said by
phone. Corn and wheat can be used interchangeably in making
livestock feed.  
 The  Food and Agriculture Organization  said on Aug. 4. -
before Russia’s ban on wheat exports -- that concern that lower-
than-expected wheat output may contribute to a food crisis is
“unwarranted at this stage.” The United Nations agency said
global wheat stockpiles were higher than in 2008.  
 Wheat’s Jump  
 Wheat for December delivery rose as much as 6.5 percent to
$8.68 a bushel in Chicago, taking gains for that contract to 25
percent this week. The best-performing commodity this year on
the UBS Bloomberg CMCI Index, ahead of coffee and nickel, traded
at $8.11 a bushel at 5:20 p.m. in Singapore, 0.5 percent weaker.
Corn traded at 4.1325 a bushel, 1.1 percent lower.  
 Stock in  PT Indofood Sukses Makmur , Indonesia’s biggest
maker of instant noodles, fell as much as 5.2 percent to 4,100
rupiah in Jakarta today as wheat surged, raising production
costs for the company. Welirang is also  a director  at Indofood,
which ended at 4,150 rupiah, the lowest close since June 30.  
 The ban on exports from Russia and possibly from other
parts of the former Soviet Union will dry up the supply of cheap
flour in Indonesia, Welirang said. Southeast’s Asia’s largest
economy is the biggest buyer of wheat, flour and products in
Asia, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  
 Buyers in Indonesia may have to turn to suppliers from the
U.S., Canada and Australia, which offer the grain at higher
prices than exporters from the former Soviet Union, Welirang
said. The wheat exported by Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan into
Indonesia typically has a lower protein content than supplies
from other countries, making it cheaper, he said.  
 Russia, the world’s third-largest wheat grower last year,
will suspend wheat shipments from Aug. 15 to yearend, Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  said yesterday. Kazakhstan and Belarus
should also suspend exports, Putin said.  
 Wheat has rallied as a heat wave in Russia, dry weather in
Kazakhstan, Ukraine and the European Union, and flooding in
Canada hurt crops. Russia’s drought is also threatening sowing
plans for winter grain, the national weather center has said.  
 Demand for flour in Indonesia fell as much as 15 percent in
2008 as wheat touched an all-time high, Welirang said, without
citing the volume. This time, higher prices of noodles and pasta
may again curb the nation’s demand as millers pass on increased
costs, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Wheat's advance revives crisis concern, says Welirang  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A farm worker drives a grain harvester through a wheat field in the Tulsky region, about 220 kilometers from Moscow. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A farm worker drives a grain harvester through a wheat field in the Tulsky region, about 220 kilometers from Moscow.  Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Franciscus Welirang  
                       
                         
                           Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “It’s the end of cheap wheat,” Chairman of the Indonesian Flour Mills Association Franciscus Welirang, seen here, said. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “It’s the end of cheap wheat,” Chairman of the Indonesian Flour Mills Association Franciscus Welirang, seen here, said. Photographer: Dimas Ardian/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
