-- Wheat Rally May Top $9 as Russia Export Ban Boosts U.S. Sales
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-08-06T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/wheat-rally-may-top-9-as-russia-s-export-ban-boosts-demand-for-u-s-grain.html

          
          
             Wheat prices may rally another 12
percent from a 23-month high as a Russian ban on grain exports
boost demand for stockpiles from the U.S., said Bob Young, the
chief economist at the  American Farm Bureau Federation .  
 “This will rattle the markets for the next several
months,” Young said yesterday by telephone from the  Washington .
“Most people thought  Russia  would use government inventories to
complete export sales” rather than risk its reputation as a
reliable supplier and lose market share, Young said.  
 Grain output in Russia, the world’s third-largest grower,
was reduced by the country’s worst drought in half a century.
The government yesterday announced a halt on outbound shipments
from Aug. 15 until Dec. 31. Companies may cancel shipments of
about 600,000 metric tons to Egypt, the world’s biggest buyer,
because of the ban, said Kirill Podolsky, the chief executive
officer of Valars Group, Russia’s third-largest grain trader.  
 Wheat for December delivery rose 59.75 cents, or 7.9
percent, to close at $8.1525 a bushel yesterday on the Chicago
Board of Trade, after advancing by the CBOT’s 60-cent limit to
$8.155, the highest level since August 2008. September futures
rose the daily limit to $7.8575.  
 The price may jump another $1 over the next few weeks, the
American Farm Bureau’s Young said. Wheat reached a record
$13.495 in February 2008, part of a surge in prices that sparked
food riots from  Haiti  to  Egypt .  
 Tighter Supply  
 Cargill Inc., the largest U.S. agricultural company, said
yesterday that trade barriers will only make supplies tighter.  
 “The U.S. wheat crop has been strong and world wheat
stocks are higher than they were during the wheat price spikes
in 2008,” Mark Klein, a company spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement. “As we saw at that time, the implementation of any
trade barriers as a result of lower yields and higher prices
exacerbated supply problems.”  
 Exports from the U.S., the world’s largest shipper, rose 35
percent in the first nine weeks of the marketing year to 9.27
million tons from 6.87 million a year earlier, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said yesterday in a weekly report.  
 The rally in prices probably won’t lead to the highs
reached two years ago, the Farm Bureau’s Young said.  
 The USDA last month forecast a 50 percent jump in global
stockpiles from a quarter-century low in 2008, and the
department said July 9 that the U.S. crop will be bigger than
originally anticipated, raising its estimate 7.2 percent to 60.3
million tons. Domestic stockpiles will total 29.8 million tons
in the year that ends in May, 12 percent more than a year
earlier. The USDA will update its forecast on Aug. 12.  
 Food Costs  
 Food costs advanced to records in 2008 as some exporters
curbed shipments amid a shortage. While the  United Nations ’
food-price index is 22 percent lower than its peak in June 2008,
the gauge is 13 percent higher than a year ago.  
 “There is no reason to expect food riots this year,”
Young said. “We have the supply. The U.S. has always stood by
its contracts and delivered grain during periods of shortages.”  
 Global wheat production will drop 4 percent this year,
mostly because the drought in Russia will reduce the country’s
output by 21 percent,  Informa Economics Inc.  said yesterday in a
note to clients.  
 The worldwide crop will fall to 651.7 million tons from 679
million a year earlier, the Memphis, Tennessee-based
agricultural researcher said. Combined production in 12 states
of the former  Soviet Union , including Ukraine, will fall 20
percent to 91.6 million from 113.8 million, Informa said.  
 Shrinking Surplus  
 “There is still a cushion, but the surplus is shrinking,”
said  Richard Feltes , the director of commodity research for MF
Global Holdings Ltd. in Chicago. “It’s not a crisis, but there
is going to be greater urgency among buyers to increase forward
purchases.”  
 Russia needs more grain to prevent an increase in food
costs and the liquidation of livestock herds and poultry, Feltes
said.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said yesterday that the ban
is “appropriate” to contain domestic prices that gained 19
percent last week, after drought and record heat in central
Russia and along the  Volga River  forced the government to
declare a state of emergency in 28 crop-producing regions. He
proposed that Kazakhstan and  Belarus , Russia’s partners in a
customs union, join the ban.  
 “There’s going to be some political gamesmanship going on
behind closed doors,” after Putin asked its neighbors to join
the embargo, Feltes said. “It would make sense for Russia to
buy the grain from its neighbors” in exchange for maintaining
good relations on sales of crude oil and natural gas, Feltes
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in  Chicago  at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Wheat rally may top $9, Russia export ban boosts U.S. sales  
                       
                         
                           Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ears of wheat are seen in a field in Tulsky region, about 220 kms from Moscow. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ears of wheat are seen in a field in Tulsky region, about 220 kms from Moscow. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Kenrick Jordan, senior economist at BMO Financial Group, discusses the outlook for wheat.
     Wheat rose to a 23-month high in Chicago as Russia, the world’s third-biggest grower, banned exports because of the country’s worst drought in at least a half-century. Jordan speaks with Matt Miller and Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Francisco Blanch, head of global commodities research for Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, talks about the outlook for crude oil and gasoline prices.
     Blanch, speaking with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses Russia's ban on wheat exports and the impact on the market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
