-- Romer Resigns in Second Exit for Obama Economy Team
-- Vivien Lou Chen
-- 2010-08-06T14:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/white-house-says-economist-romer-to-quit-to-return-to-teaching-at-berkeley.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  lost a second
member of his economic team as economist  Christina Romer  decided
to return to teaching on the eve of an employment report
highlighting the administration’s struggle to spur job gains.  
 Romer, chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, is
returning to a post at the University of California at Berkeley,
the White House said yesterday. She is interested in heading the
Federal Reserve’s regional bank in San Francisco, according to a
person familiar with her plans who requested anonymity.  
 The resignation, effective Sept. 3, follows the July
departure of  Peter Orszag  as director of the Office of
Management and Budget in July.  Jack Lew , who ran President
Clinton’s budget office, is set to replace Orszag pending Senate
confirmation, with Deputy OMB Director  Jeffrey Zients  serving as
interim director.  
 Romer’s resignation creates another opening at a time when
Obama is seeking to highlight the administration’s record on
restarting growth ahead of November congressional elections.  
 “The economics team in the Obama administration is in a
difficult spot, and losing another person is a little bit
worrisome,” said  Julia Coronado , senior U.S. economist at BNP
Paribas in New York and a former Fed staffer in Washington.
“The team hasn’t been very vocal in discussing what should be
done in light of recent weakness in the economy, and in taking a
forceful stand.”  
 Parliamentary Snag  
 Obama also yesterday saw one of his nominees to the Federal
Reserve Board hit a parliamentary snag in the Senate.  
 Peter Diamond , a Massachusetts Institute of Technology
economics professor who once taught Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , had his name returned to the White House before the
chamber left for a summer break.  Don Stewart , a spokesman for
Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell , said “it is expected
that the president will renominate him.”  
 Romer, 51, pushed last year for Obama’s $787 billion
stimulus package as unemployment rose from 7.7 percent. She quit
as a U.S. economic recovery propelled by government spending and
financial bailouts show signs of slowing, and unemployment
exceeding 9 percent persists near a 26-year high.  
 “What Obama’s team has been doing so far has not worked
and voters are going to be going to the polls very unhappy, even
distressed, with the economic situation,” said L. Randall Wray,
research director for the Center for Full Employment and Price
Stability, a nonpartisan institute at the University of Missouri
in Kansas City studies macroeconomic and monetary policy.  
 Austan Goolsbee, who is currently deputy on the three-
person council, will likely serve as the interim chair,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  
 Typical Tenures  
 Heading the Council of Economic Advisers hasn’t typically
been long-term employment for those who have held the job.  
 Bush’s five CEA chairs lasted an average of about 1 1/2
years, ranging from  Harvey Rosen ’s 3 1/2-month stint in 2005 to
 Ed Lazear ’s almost three years of service from February 2006
until Bush left office in 2009. The four chairs in the Clinton
administration served an average of about two years.  
 Republican lawmakers such as Representatives  Jo Bonner  of
Alabama and  Kevin Brady  of Texas have criticized Romer for
saying last year that Obama’s stimulus would keep unemployment
from rising above 8 percent.  
 “Everybody who pushed for the federal stimulus as having a
meaningful impact on the unemployment rate was wrong,” said
 Anthony Danaher , president of Guild Investment Management, a Los
Angeles-based investment adviser that manages about $150 million
in assets. “So she’s not alone.”  
 Employment Decline  
 A Labor Department report today shows a 131,000 decline in
overall U.S. employment in July, with the jobless rate holding
at 9.5 percent. Private payrolls excluding government agencies
rose by 71,000 after a June gain of 31,000 smaller than
previously reported.  
 “That isn’t as strong as anybody wants. We need stronger
than that to bring the unemployment rate down,” Romer said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Television.  
 Romer “has provided extraordinary service to me and our
country during a time of economic crisis and recovery,” Obama
said in a statement in Washington.  
 The news came as a surprise to Gerard Roland, chair of the
economics department at Berkeley.  
 “I thought it was a rumor,” Roland said in an interview.
Because Romer has been on leave from the university, “she
doesn’t have to clear it with anybody,” he said.  
 If selected for the San Francisco position, Romer would
succeed  Janet Yellen , who is awaiting confirmation by the U.S.
Senate as the Fed’s next vice chairman.  
 San Francisco  
 “We will not comment on the change at the White House and
we’ve said that we would be making no comment on the search
process until its conclusion,” said San Francisco Fed
spokeswoman  Carol Eckert .  
 As chair of the Council of Economic Advisers in January
2009, Romer called for “immediate action” in the form of
stimulus to respond to a contracting U.S. economy. She told
lawmakers on July 14 that the economic stimulus package is “on
track” to saving or creating 3.5 million jobs.  
 More than 8 million U.S. workers have lost their jobs since
the start of the recession in December 2007. Seven of 10
Americans say reducing unemployment should be the federal
government’s priority, according to a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted July 9-12.  
 Should she become San Francisco Fed president, Romer would
participate in the central bank’s policy discussions, and would
vote on the interest-rate setting Federal Open Market Committee
once every three years, taking her next turn in 2012.  
 Research Record  
 Romer “would be an excellent person to be running” the San
Francisco Fed, said  James Hamilton , an economics professor at
the University of California, San Diego. “She has a very solid
record of research and proven herself to be very effective in
the public-policy sphere.”  
 John Williams , the district bank’s chief researcher, also
has qualifications to be a candidate for the post as president,
according to  Bradford DeLong , a Berkeley economics professor.  
 “It would be extremely strange if John and Christina Romer
were not among the leading candidates” to lead the San
Francisco Fed, he said.  
 Romer would bring “a great deal of sophisticated
understanding on how to use economic theory to make economic
policy,” he said. “What Christina has that Janet does not have
is an immense focus on the historical record, and immense
understanding of how economies have responded to recessions and
bouts of inflation in the past.”  
 The San Francisco Fed  represents nine western U.S. states
that include California, Nevada and Arizona, which were at the
epicenter of the collapse in U.S. housing prices. Its district
accounts for about 20 percent of the national economy, more than
any of the Fed’s 11 other regional banks.  
 Home of Apple  
 The district is also home to companies such as Apple Inc.,
Chevron Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co. Sixty-five banks in the
region, most of them supervised by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., have failed since 2004, for losses totaling about $28
billion.  
 Romer , born on Dec. 25, 1958, in Alton, Illinois, earned an
undergraduate degree from the College of William and Mary in
Williamsburg, Virginia, in 1981 and a doctorate from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1985.  
 From 2003 to 2008, Romer served on the committee of the
National Bureau of Economic Research that dates the beginning
and end of recessions.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Romer Resigns in Second Exit for Obama Economy Team  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Christina Romer, chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, speaks during a television interview in Washington, D.C. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Christina Romer, chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, speaks during a television interview in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Christina Romer, who chairs the White House Council of Economic Advisers, talks about the July U.S. jobs report and her decision to resign effective Sept. 3.
     Private payrolls that exclude government agencies rose by 71,000 after a June gain of 31,000 that was smaller than previously reported, Labor Department figures in Washington showed today. Romer talks with Scarlet Fu and Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Bert Ely, chief executive officer of bank consulting firm Ely & Co., talks about the resignation of Christina Romer as chairman of President Barack Obama's Council of Economic Advisers and potential replacements.
     Romer, whose resignation is effective Sept. 3, decided to return to teaching on the eve of an employment report highlighting the administration’s struggle to spur job gains. Ely speaks with Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
