-- Moscow Inundated by Smoke as Russian Heartland Burns
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-08-06T13:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/wildfire-smoke-in-moscow-delays-120-flights-as-russia-s-heartland-blazes.html

          
          
             Acrid smoke from forest and peat-bog
fires east of Moscow shrouded the city in smoke, causing flight
delays and raising pollution to “very dangerous” levels.  
 As many as 140 flights were delayed today as visibility at
the capital’s airports was reduced to as little as 350 meters
(1,148 feet) this morning. Visibility improved “significantly”
in the afternoon and planes “gradually began to return to
airports and fly out,” Sergei Izvolsky, a spokesman for the
 Federal Air Transportation Agency , said by telephone.  
 Carbon monoxide in Moscow’s air rose to as high as 4.8
times the admissible maximum level before tapering off slightly
toward evening, the city’s environmental protection department
said on its  website . The Health Ministry  advised  Russians to
stay indoors, limit physical activity and wear a mask when
venturing outside.  
 Emergency crews are battling 558 fires covering 179,596
hectares (693 square miles) across Russia, the Emergency
Situations Ministry said on its  website  today. So far this year,
fires have scorched 729,761 hectares, an area about three times
the size of Luxembourg, according to the ministry. The fires
have  killed  at least 52 people, the Health Ministry said.  
 Heat Wave  
 The  smoke plume  from Russia’s fires spanned about 3,000
kilometers (1,860 miles) from east to west as of Aug. 4,
according to the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space
Administration. “If the smoke were in the United States, it
would extend approximately from San Francisco to Chicago,” NASA
said on its website yesterday.  
 Temperatures as high as 42 degrees Celsius (108 degrees
Fahrenheit) will continue to plague central Russia and along the
Volga River, where the fires are concentrated, at least through
Aug. 8, the state Hydrometeorological Center said on its
 website . “Extreme” fire danger is forecast for many regions,
the center said.  
 The military may press negligence charges against the
commander of a paratrooper supply base in the Moscow region that
was partially destroyed by fire, Interfax reported today, citing
a statement from prosecutors. Strong winds whipped up the fire
on July 29, scorching a warehouse, the news service said.  
 Earlier this week, President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired senior
navy officers for “criminal negligence” after a base near
Moscow was gutted by fire.  
 Drought Emergency  
 The naval aviation supply base near Kolomna, 100 kilometers
southwest of Moscow, burned on July 29, destroying the
headquarters, 13 warehouses and 17 parking lots with vehicles,
according to the  Investigative Committee  of the Prosecutor
General’s Office.  
 Agriculture is the hardest hit part of the economy, with
the government declaring a state of emergency in 28 crop-
producing regions and grain yields down 20 percent this year.
Agriculture accounts for about 4 percent of gross domestic
product, according to Moscow-based VTB Capital.  
 The Russian government may delay the start of the school
year because of the heat, Interfax reported, citing  Gennady Onishchenko , the country’s public health chief.  
 Onishchenko said school should start as usual on Sept. 1,
though authorities may have to consider pushing classes back if
the heat wave doesn’t break and smoke from forest fires doesn’t
dissipate in the cities, the news service reported.  
 Russia, the world’s third-biggest grower of wheat,
yesterday banned grain exports from Aug. 15 to Dec. 31 as the
country’s worst drought in half a century cuts yields.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said the ban is
“appropriate” to contain domestic prices that gained 19
percent last week. He proposed that Kazakhstan and Belarus,
Russia’s partners in a customs union, join the ban.  
 The Agriculture Ministry cut its grain crop forecast to as
low as 70 million metric tons compared with 97.1 million tons
last year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ekaterina Shatalova  in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Smoke from fires delayed more than 120 flights  
                       
                         
                           NASA via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Wildfire smoke above Moscow, Russia, is seen in this handout satellite image dated Friday, Aug. 5, 2010. The city of Moscow is located in the left third of the image. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Wildfire smoke above Moscow, Russia, is seen in this handout satellite image dated Friday, Aug. 5, 2010. The city of Moscow is located in the left third of the image. Source: NASA via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
