-- Wipro, Infosys Face Visa-Fee Doubling in Senate Bill
-- Katie Hoffmann
-- 2010-08-06T20:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/wipro-infosys-face-visa-fee-doubling-in-senate-bill.html

          
          
             Wipro Ltd. ,  Infosys Technologies Ltd .
and  Patni Computer Systems Ltd. , which provide technology
services to corporate customers, may see expenses for U.S. work
visas double if a bill passed by the U.S. Senate becomes law.  
 The plan, passed unanimously by the Senate yesterday, would
add $2,000 to visa fees for companies with more than half of
their employees in the U.S. on such visas. Firms typically pay
about $2,000 to $2,250 per visa application now, Kaufman Bros.
analyst  Karl Keirstead  said.  
 Technology companies such as Wipro and Infosys bring
skilled workers from overseas, often from India, into the U.S.
to develop software and manage projects for customers in the
country. The bill could cost such companies up to $250 million a
year, said  Som Mittal , president of Nasscom, a trade association
for Indian information-technology companies.  
 “There would certainly be a long-term negative impact from
this,” Mittal said. “This legislation would make many of the
services we provide not viable.”  
 The majority of U.S. workers for Wipro, Infosys and Patni,
all based in India, are in the country on what are known as H-1B
and L-1 visas, the companies say in regulatory filings.  
 The Senate fee increases are aimed at helping to finance a
$600 million effort to boost security at the U.S.-Mexican
border, including through the addition of 1,500 guards and other
officials. Sen.  Charles Schumer  of New York, who’s sponsoring
the bill, said the technology-services companies add to
unemployment in the U.S. by outsourcing jobs to foreign workers.  
 “It will level the playing field for American companies
and American workers to compete,” Schumer told the Senate this
week.  
 ‘Relatively Innocuous’  
 The law wouldn’t affect U.S. technology companies such as
 International Business Machines Corp. , Microsoft Corp. and
 Google Inc.  since less than half their workers use work visas.  
 Infosys, based in Bangalore, spent $12 million on H1-B and
L-1 visas in the second half of 2009, according to its
regulatory filings. The company, which files about 7,000 to
8,000 visa applications and renewals each year, could see $15
million in added costs from the bill, Keirstead said.  
 Still, the hikes are “relatively innocuous” for the
Indian services companies, he said, compared with their total
profit. Infosys posted net income of $1.3 billion for its fiscal
year ended in March.  
 “It is unfortunate that this tax is being levied on a
discriminatory basis when the need is to open markets to make
companies more competitive in the global market place,” the
company said in a statement. Infosys added that it is working
with industry associations to convey its views on the issue.  
 Radhika Mahadevan, a spokeswoman from Wipro, also based in
Bangalore, and Mike McConnell, a spokesman for Mumbai-based
Patni, didn’t immediately provide comment.  
 ‘Arbitrage Opportunity’  
 Infosys’s American depositary receipts dropped 34 cents to
$61.88 at 4 p.m. in Nasdaq trading. Patni’s receipts fell 24
cents to $21.06 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
while Wipro’s added 20 cents to $13.88.  
 The $2,000 bump in visa costs may not be enough to make
companies hire U.S. workers instead of bringing overseas
employees in, said Ron Hira, a public policy professor at the
Rochester Institute of Technology. Companies can pay workers on
L-1 visas roughly what they would be paid in India, much less
than what they would have to pay American workers, he said.  
 “They’ll continue to do it because the arbitrage
opportunity is still great,” Hira said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        