-- Two-Year Treasuries Set for Weekly Gain Amid Speculation U.S. Lost Jobs
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-08-06T10:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/two-year-treasuries-set-for-weekly-gain-amid-speculation-u-s-lost-jobs.html

          
          
             Treasury two-year yields approached
an all-time low before a report economists said will show the
U.S. lost jobs for the second consecutive month in July.  
 The 10-year yield was within six basis points of the lowest
in 15 months. U.S. employers cut 65,000 jobs last month, adding
to a decline of 125,000 in June, according to the median
prediction of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before today’s
release. That would mark the first back-to-back drop since
October, fueling speculation that the Federal Reserve may resume
bond purchases.  
 “In the short term, there’s still some downward potential
in Treasury yields,” said  Philip Marey , a senior market
economist at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, Netherlands. “People
are still worried about the double-dip scenario. Investors tend
to exaggerate the interpretation of bad macro economic data.”  
 The yield on the two-year  note  was at 0.55 percent as of
6:45 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. That
left the yield one basis point lower since July 30. The 0.625
percent security traded at 100 5/32. The yield dropped to 0.5143
percent on Aug. 3, the lowest on record. The 10-year  yield  rose
by less than a basis point to 2.91 percent. It fell to 2.85
percent on July 21, the lowest since April 21, 2009.  
 Treasuries are little changed this month, after rising from
April through July, according to indexes compiled by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  
 Short-Dated Notes  
 The central bank should resume purchases of Treasury
securities if the economy slows and prices fall, Fed Bank of St.
Louis President  James Bullard  said in a research paper released
on July 29. The Fed has kept its  target  for overnight bank
lending in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008
to foster the economic expansion.  
 The extra yield that investors demand to hold 30-year
Treasuries instead of two-year debt was at 351 basis points
today. The  spread  widened to 352 basis points yesterday, the
most since May 17. The widening spread indicates investors are
favoring the shorter-dated notes, which are more sensitive to
the outlook for monetary policy.  
 The U.S. economy faces an “anemic recovery” and the
government will need to enact another round of “better
designed” stimulus measures, Nobel Prize-winning economist
 Joseph E. Stiglitz  said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Sydney.  
 Rate Bets  
 U.S. economic growth slowed to 2.4 percent in the second
quarter from 3.7 percent in the first. It will be 2.7 percent in
the July-to-September period and 2.8 percent in the last three
months of the year, a Bloomberg survey of economists shows.
Treasuries rallied yesterday after a government report showed
initial jobless claims unexpectedly increased last week.  
 Yields indicate traders trimmed bets the Federal Reserve
will increase interest rates in the next year. Futures contracts
on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 36 percent chance policy
makers will boost the target rate for overnight lending between
banks at least a quarter-percentage point by August 2011, down
from 49 percent odds a week ago.  
 “We’ve had a batch of rather unbalanced and weaker-than-
expected data and that added fuel to the fire that there might
be some kind of quantitative easing,” said  David Schnautz , a
fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in London. “Payrolls
are obviously always the highlight of the data month and this
time, ahead of the meeting, this adds extra flavor.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        