-- Yen Falls on Asian Stock Gains, Signs European Recovery Gaining Momentum
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-08-06T07:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/yen-falls-on-asian-stock-gains-signs-european-recovery-gaining-momentum.html

          
          
             The yen weakened against most of its
major counterparts as gains in stocks and speculation that
European economies are recovering damped demand for Japan’s
currency as a refuge.  
 The yen extended a weekly decline versus the euro before
reports today that economists said will show German  industrial
production  grew for a fourth month and British manufacturing
expanded. The dollar traded near a three-month low versus
Europe’s single currency before a report today that may show
U.S. companies cut workers for a second month, a sign the
nation’s recovery is trailing behind the rest of the world. The
South Korean won gained for a sixth day.  
 “Economies in Europe are doing really well,” said  Yoh Nihei , a Tokyo-based trading group manager at Tokai Tokyo
Securities Co. “Risk appetite may improve, and the bias for the
yen would be to weaken.”  
 The yen dropped to 113.57 per euro as of 8:27 a.m. in
London, from 113.20 yesterday in New York. Japan’s currency fell
to 86.10 per dollar, from 85.82, and lost 0.5 percent to 79
versus the Australian dollar. The greenback was at $1.3195 per
euro, from $1.3189, after falling to $1.3262 on Aug. 3, the
weakest level since May 3.  
 The  MSCI World Index  of shares gained 0.4 percent, on
course for a weekly gain.  
 German, U.K. Data  
 The yen weakened before the German government releases its
 industrial production  report today. Output rose 0.5 percent in
June, after gaining 2.6 percent in May, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. U.K. manufacturing output climbed 0.4 percent in
June from May, when it rose 0.3 percent, a separate Bloomberg
survey showed before the Office for National Statistics report.  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday the region is recovering faster than forecast and
money markets are improving, paving the way for the ECB to phase
out liquidity tools used to fight the financial crisis.  
 “The available data for the third quarter are better than
expected,” Trichet told reporters after the Governing Council
kept its benchmark interest rate at a record low of 1 percent.
“The market is functioning a little bit better,” he said.  
 The dollar headed for a second weekly drop versus the euro
before the Labor Department payrolls report that economists said
will show U.S. employers cut 65,000 jobs in July, after trimming
125,000 positions the previous month.  
 ‘Lot of Negativity’  
 “There’s certainly a lot of negativity priced into the
U.S. dollar lately based on the outlook for the U.S. economy,”
said  Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, in Sydney. The dollar is at “risk of a break lower
on a weak payrolls number.”  
 U.S. initial jobless claims rose 19,000 to 479,000 in the
week ended July 31, the Labor Department said yesterday, fueling
speculation the Fed will discuss stimulus measures at its policy
meeting next week.  
 Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph E. Stiglitz  said the
U.S. economic recovery is “anemic” and called for a second
round of “better-designed” stimulus.  
 “The recovery is so weak that it is not strong enough to
generate new jobs for the new entrants in the labor force, let
alone to find jobs for the 15 million Americans who would like a
job and can’t get one,” Stiglitz told Bloomberg Television in
an interview in Sydney yesterday.  
 Korean Won  
 The won headed for a third weekly gain, its longest winning
streak since April, after the government reported exports
increased for a ninth month.  
 The finance ministry yesterday estimated July’s current-
account surplus at about $4 billion, which would be the second
highest this year. The excess for June was $5.04 billion.  
 “There’s been a lot of recent data that shows the won is
an attractive investment,” said  Sung Jae Man , a currency
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in Seoul.  
 The won rose 0.4 percent to 1,161.90 per dollar, extending
this week’s advance to 1.8 percent.  
 Canada’s dollar traded near a three-month high against the
greenback before a government report that economists said will
show employment increased for a seventh month, backing the case
for the central bank to raise interest rates.  
 Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday Canada’s
strong economic “fundamentals” support demand for its assets.
Flaherty said it’s no “surprise” the Canadian dollar,
nicknamed the loonie, has become more attractive. The Bank of
Canada increased borrowing costs by 25 basis points on June 1
and again on July 20. The central bank’s benchmark interest rate
is 0.75 percent. Its next policy meeting is Sept. 8.  
 “Flaherty has said that the rise in the loonie ‘makes
sense’ and that ‘it would have to go significantly above parity’
before it became a concern,” said  Khoon Goh , head of market
economics and strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington.
“The Canadian dollar has the green light to try and test” the
April high of C$0.9931, he said.  
 The Canadian dollar was at C$1.0150 versus the greenback
from C$1.0168 yesterday, when it rose to C$1.0108, the highest
level since May 4.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        