-- Lyondell, Madoff, WaMu, Innkeepers, Black Crow, AMN Healthcare: Bankruptcy
-- Carla Main
-- 2010-08-06T17:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-06/lyondell-madoff-trustee-wamu-innkeepers-amn-healthcare-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             The trial of a lawsuit by  Lyondell
Chemical Co.  creditors against billionaire Len Blavatnik that
claims a 2007 merger drove the company into bankruptcy is set to
begin in New York next month.  
 Summonses were filed Aug. 4 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan listing Blavatnik and 41 other people and companies
that allegedly played a role in Lyondell’s takeover by
Luxembourg-based Basell AF SCA. The creditors claim the $22
billion leveraged buyout enriched advisers by about $1 billion
and profited management, including Blavatnik, while leaving
Lyondell with too much debt.  
 A pretrial conference is set for Sept. 13.  
 The amended complaint “adds nothing new,” Mike Sitrick, a
spokesman for Blavatnik’s holding company, Access Industries
Inc., said in an e-mailed statement today. “As before, the
allegations are without any merit and twist the facts.”  
 “The trustee chose to ignore studies commissioned by”
Lyondell’s parent company “that prove that the case has no
merit and attempts to portray what was a legitimate business
transaction as a conspiracy,” Sitrick said.  
 The bankruptcy case is In re Lyondell Chemical Co., 09-
10023, and the adversary case is Official Committee of Unsecured
Creditors v. Citibank NA, 09-01375, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Madoff Trustee Wins $180 Million Vizcaya Judgment  
 The trustee for Bernard Madoff’s investment-advisory
business won a $180 million default judgment against Vizcaya
Partners Ltd. over claims the hedge fund profited from the
conman’s fraud.  
 Vizcaya, based in the British Virgin Islands, failed to
plead its case “or otherwise defend itself” against trustee
Irving Picard’s allegations, according to an Aug. 3 ruling by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland in Manhattan. The default
applies to Vizcaya and its affiliates, Zeus, Siam and Asphalia.
Recovery of damages from Vizcaya may hinge on a ruling by a
Gibraltar court that holds $74 million on behalf of Vizcaya’s
bank, which did not default and is challenging the claims.  
 Vizcaya’s lawyer, Anthony Paccione of Katten Muchin
Rosenman LLP in New York, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  
 Separately, Picard has hit roadblocks in negotiations to
settle a lawsuit seeking $7.2 billion from the estate of
investor Jeffry Picower, a lawyer said.  
 Disputes over the settlement cost and the ability of
private investors to sue for more money have snagged the talks,
said William Zabel, a lawyer for the estate of Picower, a
Florida businessman who drowned last October.  
 Picard claims Picower should have known Madoff ran a Ponzi
scheme before Madoff’s 2008 arrest. Picard claims that Picower
and his charitable foundation withdrew $7.2 billion from
Madoff’s firm over 20 years. Picower’s widow, Barbara, wants a
global settlement barring suits by other parties, Zabel said.  
 The parties have not agreed on blocking third party claims
or “the overall dollar figure,” which ranges between $2.4
billion and $7.2 billion, Zabel said in an interview.  
 The Vizcaya case is Picard v. Vizcaya Partners Ltd., 09-
01154, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Picower case is Picard v. Fox, 10-3114, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 WaMu Equity Security Holders Seek to Join Shareholders’ Case  
 The Official Committee of Secured Equity Holders of
 Washington Mutual Inc. , which sued the bank March 10 seeking to
compel an immediate annual shareholders’ meeting, wants
permission to intervene in an adversary proceeding brought by
WaMu shareholders that seeks “virtually identical relief,” the
committee said in court papers.  
 Intervention “is necessary” for the committee to protect
the interests of the equity holders, the committee said in a
filing with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.
It also asked that the two suits be consolidated.  
 Shareholders brought a suit April 26 in Tacoma, Washington,
seeking to force WaMu to hold an annual meeting to nominate and
elect a new board of directors. The case was transferred to the
bankruptcy court in Delaware.  
 Seattle-based WaMu is negotiating a settlement of a court
fight with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. over ownership of $4 billion in deposits and two tax
refunds. Shareholders oppose the settlement because they would
get nothing. WaMu is the bankrupt former parent of the biggest
U.S. bank to fail.  
 The bankruptcy case is In Re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-
12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).
The financial dispute is Washington Mutual Inc. v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank NA, 09-50934, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington). The adversary case is Willingham v.
Washington Mutual, Inc., 10-25197, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 American Mortgage Acceptance Seeks Plan Retaining REIT Status  
 American Mortgage Acceptance Co. , the bankrupt real estate
investment trust, filed its first amended disclosure statement
and amended plan of reorganization with the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Manhattan. AMAC will seek confirmation of the plan
under the so-called cramdown provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code, which allow a debtor to gain approval of a plan when it
isn’t accepted by all impaired creditors.  
 Under the proposed plan, the debtor will transfer bonds and
$100,000 to unsecured creditor Taberna Preferred Funding I,
Ltd., and old common stock of the debtor will be canceled and
new stock issued to unsecured creditor C3 Initial Assets LLC.
Equity holders “will receive no distribution” under the plan,
AMAC said in court papers.  
 The company will retain its so-called REIT status, and will
issue new shares to raise equity “going forward.”  
 A hearing to confirm the plan is scheduled for Sept. 10 at
the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  
 The company filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code April 10.  
 The case is In re American Mortgage Acceptance Co., 10-
12196, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Bear Island’s Collateral Agent Opposes DIP Amendment  
 General Electric Capital Corp. , the U.S. collateral and
documentation agent for bankrupt newsprint maker  Bear Island
Paper Co. , yesterday made a limited objection to a motion by the
committee for unsecured creditors to amend the July 8 debtor-in-
possession order.  
 The committee has identified three bank accounts which it
says aren’t subject to prepetition liens, GECC said in a court
filing. GECC claims the money is subject to a Jan. 10 block-
account agreement and falls under a “properly perfected
security interest” it holds. The finance company asked that any
order granting the DIP motion should state that nothing in it
“limits or alters the scope” of the prepetition liens.  
 Bear Island is a U.S. unit of Nova Scotia-based White Birch
Paper Co., which filed for reorganization in February.  
 The case is In re Bear Island Paper Co. LLC, 10-31202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  
 Briefly Noted  
 Marriott International Inc. , the worldwide hotel operator
and franchisor, asked the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan
Aug. 4 to allow it, even though there is an automatic bankruptcy
stay, to enforce a prepetition contract with a unit of
 Innkeepers USA Trust . Marriott wants the unit, Grand Prix
Floating Lessee LLC, to stop using the Marriott name, a demand
it says it is permitted to make under the contract. The
franchisor has given notice to Grand Prix that the franchise
will terminate Aug. 30, according to court papers. Marriott
wants Grand Prix to remove all signs of the Marriott name and
return “all Marriott property.” Failure to de-identify the
hotel will be a violation of the Lanham Act, a federal law that
governs trademark use, Marriott argued in court papers.
Innkeepers and its unit have not yet responded to the motion.  
 The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Compania Mexicana de Aviacion , Mexico’s biggest airline by
passengers, hopes to resume ticket sales in the “coming days,”
according to Chief Executive Officer Manuel Borja Chico.  
 Borja Chico made the comments yesterday in an interview on
Radio Formula. Ticket sales stopped on Aug. 4 after the  Air
Transport Association  suspended the company in the ticket
clearing house, he said.  
 The company is in talks with labor unions after filing for
protection from creditors on Aug. 3 in Mexico and the U.S. It
said yesterday a Mexico City judge granted a temporary
injunction to protect its assets from seizure.  
 The U.S. case is Compania Mexicana De Aviacion SA de CV,
10-14182, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Paul M. Glenn  yesterday named a
mediator to oversee a dispute between bankrupt  Black Crow Media
Group LLC  and  General Electric Capital Corp.  The companies
requested the appointment of Catherine P. McEwen.  
 Black Crow, a closely held owner of 22 radio stations, won
an extension of exclusivity until Nov. 8. In March, Black Crow
beat back a motion by Stamford, Connecticut-based GECC to
dismiss the case or allow foreclosure.  
 Black Crow filed for Chapter 11 protection in January, two
days before a hearing in U.S. district court where GECC was
seeking appointment of a receiver following default on the term
loans and revolving credit.  
 The  case  is In re Black Crow Media Group LLC, 10-00172,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  
 General Motors has added or recalled 6,900 workers since
exiting bankruptcy, according to The Free Press. The new
positions are in the U.S., and 1,000 are in Michigan, the paper
said. GM’s second quarter report, expected at the end of August,
will show a gain of $865 million profit for the first quarter
that ended March 31, Vice Chairman Steve Grisky said yesterday,
according to the newspaper. GM began the largest manufacturing
reorganization in history by filing under Chapter 11 on June 1,
2009. Sale of the reorganized company was completed on July 10,
2009.  
 The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Downgrades  
 AMN Healthcare Downgraded by Moody’s, Ratings Company Says  
 AMN Healthcare, Inc.’s corporate family rating was
downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service yesterday to Ba3 from
Ba3, according to a statement issued by the ratings company.  
 The ratings action affects about $265 million in newly
rated debt and “reflects an increase in financial leverage and
a reduction in unrestricted cash,” Moody’s said in the
statement.  
 Moody’s also assigned a Ba2 rating to the health-care
staffing provider’s $215 million first lien credit facility
under a proposed amend-and- extend transaction that “would
upsize the existing term loan by $68 million,” Moody’s said.
The AMN’s Ba3 probability of default rating was confirmed. AMN’s
ratings outlook is “stable,” Moody’s said.  
 A B1 rating was assigned to a new $50 million second lien
term loan. This ratings action “concludes the review for
possible downgrade” that began July 30.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 Cmain2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        