-- Deephaven, Knight Capital Fund Unit, May Refund Fees
-- Jenny Strasburg
-- 2007-08-27T22:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-27/deephaven-knight-capital-fund-unit-may-refund-fees-update1-.html

          
          
             Deephaven Capital Management LLC, the
hedge-fund unit of stock trader Knight Capital Group Inc., may
refund performance fees if it posts a loss for the final six
months of this year.  
 Knight, the second-largest matchmaker of Nasdaq-listed
stocks, said in a regulatory filing that Deephaven may return ``a
substantial portion'' of the $68.4 million of incentive fees it
collected from January through June. Deephaven has about $4
billion under management.  
 Sudden declines in stock and credit markets in July and
August have produced losses at  hedge funds  across the U.S.,
including pools run by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Tudor
Investment Corp. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index, for example,
has dropped more than 1 percent in a day nine times since
reaching a record high on July 19.  
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight said any refund would
be ``based upon market conditions and conforming to industry
practice.''  
 Jonathan Gasthalter, a Deephaven spokesman, declined to
elaborate. Knight has $200 million of its own money invested with
the unit.  
 Deephaven funds returned 7 percent for the first six months
of this year, according to company filings. That compared with
the 7.5 percent average return of hedge funds worldwide,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  
 Contribution to Knight  
 Knight earned $6.3 million in pretax profit from asset-management fees produced by Deephaven during the second quarter,
compared with $2.3 million a year earlier. That was because the
funds posted better returns, according to company filings.  
 Hedge funds worldwide returned 0.45 percent in July, their
worst month in a year, according to a monthly industry survey by
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. This month, funds in Hedge
Fund Research's  HFRX Index , calculated daily based on a smaller
sampling of investment pools, lost 3.5 percent through Aug. 23.  
 Hedge funds are private, largely unregulated pools of
capital whose managers can buy or sell any assets and participate
substantially in profits from money invested. Industry assets
have almost tripled to $1.7 trillion since 2002.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jenny Strasburg in  New York  at 
 jstrasburg@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Larry Edelman  at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        