-- FCC OKs commissioner to vote on AT&T-BellSouth
-- By  Peter Kaplan  and  Jeremy Pelofsky
-- Fri Dec 8, 2006 7:35pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/09/businesspro-bellsouth-fcc-dc-idUSN0844903720061209

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. Federal Communications 
Commissioner Robert McDowell will be permitted to cast the 
tie-breaking vote on AT&T Inc.'s ( T.N ) proposed acquisition of 
BellSouth Corp. BLS.N, the agency's general counsel said on 
Friday. 

  FCC general counsel Samuel Feder said in a memorandum 
released by the agency that McDowell should be allowed to weigh 
in on whether to approve the deal in order to break a deadlock 
among the other four commissioners.  "You are now free to participate if you choose to do so," 
Feder said in the memo.  McDowell could abstain, but that is seen as unlikely by 
some analysts. The agency has a public meeting scheduled for 
December 20 and FCC Chairman Kevin Martin said a vote on the 
$84.5-billion deal was not likely then, but hopefully by the 
end of the year.  McDowell originally said he would not vote on the matter 
because he previously worked for an association that 
represented competitors of the two companies. He said on Friday 
he was reviewing Feder's opinion.  "In the meantime, I strongly urge the participating parties 
and my four colleagues to resolve their differences in the same 
amicable and unified manner they did in the similar merger 
between SBC and AT&T just last year," McDowell said in a 
statement.  The FCC has been reviewing the proposed acquisition for 
more than seven months and the four other commissioners -- two 
Republicans and two Democrats -- have been trying to break a 
deadlock for weeks over what conditions to attach.  Martin said a week ago the negotiations had reached an 
impasse and sought an opinion by the general counsel on 
McDowell's possible participation, a rare move. The agency 
usually tries to reach agreement via consensus.  Since McDowell, a Republican, has sat out the 
deliberations, he would likely have to read the draft order to 
approve the deal and hold meetings with the companies and other 
interested parties, a process that could take weeks.  "I'm hopeful we could (vote) by the end of the year," 
Martin said in a phone interview. "I don't think we'd be able 
to put it on the agenda for the 20th but I'm hopeful we could 
move forward soon."
  DIFFERING OPINIONS  In Feder's opinion, he said the head of the federal 
government's ethics agency told him he would not have 
authorized McDowell to participate.  But the head of the Office of Government Ethics, Robert 
Cusick, also said it was a "very, very close call" on which 
reasonable people could disagree, according to Feder.  Feder said he reached a different conclusion because the 
deal has been pending before the FCC for so long and no one 
except McDowell could break the tie. He said the need to 
resolve it one way or the other outweighed "the concern that a 
reasonable person may question the integrity of the agency's 
programs and operations."  Democratic lawmakers responded to the decision by urging 
McDowell to abstain from the case, citing the Cusick opinion.  "Commissioner McDowell should not wade into these ethically 
murky waters," said Rep. Edward Markey, a Massachusetts 
Democrat.  AT&T has offered numerous concessions, including freezing 
some wholesale rates for competitors to gain access to its 
network and a low-cost basic high-speed Internet package. But 
the competitors have complained the offers were not enough.  The talks most recently have centered on an arbitration 
process to resolve disputes over rates for competitors to lease 
lines, as well as prioritizing Internet content from providers 
who pay a fee, an issue known as Net neutrality.  Martin said he spoke to the two Democrats, commissioners 
Jonathan Adelstein and Michael Copps, this week about possibly 
breaking the impasse and "told them my preference was still to 
work out a compromise."  Representatives for Copps and Adelstein were not 
immediately available for comment.  AT&T and BellSouth said in a December 7 letter that they 
would have no problem with McDowell voting on their 
combination. An AT&T spokesman declined to comment further.