-- Yum shares battered by more E. coli cases
-- By  Martinne Geller
-- Fri Dec 8, 2006 10:08pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/09/businesspro-yum-shares-dc-idUSN0837487920061209

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - An outbreak of the E. coli bacteria 
linked to Taco Bell fast food had increased to 63 people and 
was still growing, U.S. health officials said on Friday. 

  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said on a 
conference call that it expected the number of confirmed cases 
to increase in the next few days, since a number of other cases 
were being investigated.  Taco Bell voluntarily closed a number of stores and pulled 
green onions, also known as scallions, from its 5,800 U.S. 
restaurants after preliminary tests indicated the possible 
presence of a strain of E. coli known as 0157:H7.  But the FDA said on Friday it had not confirmed that green 
onions were the culprit, and said it was testing other fresh 
produce from Taco Bell including lettuce, tomatoes and cheese.  Shares of Taco Bell parent Yum Brands Inc. ( YUM.N ) fell 
more than 2.2 percent on Friday after an analyst downgraded the 
stock and raised concerns that the outbreak could have a 
significant impact on its sales.  The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
said on a conference call that after five new probable or 
confirmed cases had been discovered, a total of 63 people in 
six states had been affected by the outbreak, with 49 people 
hospitalized and seven experiencing kidney failure.  New cases in South Carolina and Utah, far from New York, 
New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware where most cases have 
occurred, raise the possibility that the outbreak could be more 
than just a regional problem.  A Utah state epidemiologist told Reuters that state health 
officials should know by Tuesday if E. coli samples taken from 
the person who fell ill in the western state are genetic 
matches to samples collected in the eastern United States.  Christopher Braden, a CDC epidemiologist investigating the 
outbreak, said the South Carolina patient had traveled to 
Pennsylvania. He did not say whether the patient had eaten at 
Taco Bell while there.  Despite what Braden called "an epidemiology heavily pointed 
toward this restaurant chain," the FDA said it could not order 
Yum to shutter all its Taco Bell stores, saying that was the 
job of local health authorities.  Late on Wednesday, the family of an 11-year-old boy filed a 
lawsuit against the chain over possible E. coli contamination, 
accusing the chain of negligence.  Wachovia Securities analyst Jeffrey Omohundro, who lowered 
his rating on Yum shares, also said on Friday he was concerned 
about sales momentum in the United States for the whole 
company, which also runs Pizza Hut and KFC.  After Yum held an analyst meeting in New York on Tuesday, 
J.P. Morgan analyst John Ivankoe recommended investors take 
profits on Yum shares, which are up 27 percent this year, and 
are fully valued, in his opinion.  Louisville, Kentucky-based Yum has been placing greater 
emphasis on its international businesses such as KFC and Pizza 
Hut in China, France and India, as it tries to revive its 
domestic business.  "We believe the strategy outlined by the company to turn 
around operating results in fiscal 2007 is suspect," said 
Ivankoe about the U.S. business in a research note. "A proposed 
breakfast at Taco Bell, improved lunch (business) at Pizza Hut, 
and continuation of current strategy at KFC despite recent 
softness are all risky."  (Additional reporting by  Jim Christie  in San Francisco)