-- Congress approves offshore drilling bill
-- By  Chris Baltimore
-- Sat Dec 9, 2006 11:37am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/09/businesspro-congress-offshore-drilling-d-idUSMOL95933320061209

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Hours before adjourning for the 
year, the U.S. Congress on Saturday sent President George W. 
Bush legislation that would open 8.3 million acres in the Gulf 
of Mexico to oil and natural gas drilling and redistribute 
billions of dollars in royalties to four Gulf states. 

  The drilling measure was wrapped into a broad tax and trade 
package that the U.S. Senate approved by a 79-9 vote, hours 
after the House of Representatives approved it.  Rep. Bobby Jindal, a Louisiana Republican and one of the 
drilling measure's main supporters, said Bush will sign the 
bill into law.  The offshore legislation ends a 25-year ban on drilling in 
deep waters about 125 miles south of Florida's Panhandle, but 
extends a moratorium on drilling in other Florida waters until 
2022.  The area known as "Lease Sale 181" holds an estimated 1.26 
billion barrels of crude oil and 5.8 trillion cubic feet of 
natural gas.  In a statement, the White House said the bill "will help to 
reduce our dependence on imported sources of energy by 
increasing access to domestic sources of oil and gas."  But it will be years before the tracts are leased to energy 
companies and the new supplies actually hit the market.  More offshore areas would have been opened if Republican 
House leaders had won Senate support for a bill passed by the 
House earlier this year that sought to open nearly all U.S. 
Atlantic and Pacific coastal waters more than 100 miles 
offshore.  But with time dwindling before the 109th Congress 
adjourned, key House Republicans agreed this week to use the 
more limited Senate bill.  Key to winning support in the Senate was a provision that 
gives four Gulf Coast states -- Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi 
and Alabama -- 37.5 percent of the royalties collected from oil 
and gas production on federal leases off their shores.  Gulf Coast lawmakers had sought the money for coastal 
restoration projects to repair damage from storms like 
Hurricane Katrina.  According to congressional estimates, that provision could 
redistribute about $60 billion in federal leasing fees to 
states over the next 25 years. After taxes, drilling royalties 
are the government's second-biggest revenue source.  Natural gas users, from farmers to manufacturers, have 
backed the drilling bill because they hope the extra supplies 
will mean lower energy bills.  Environmental groups said U.S. consumers would be better 
served if Congress pursued measures to cut U.S. crude oil 
consumption, which is about 20 million barrels per day.