-- `Dead Border' Is Price China Pays to Support N. Korea Regime
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-14T20:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/-dead-border-thwarts-growth-as-chinese-pay-price-for-backing-north-korea.html

          
          
             Business is slow at sportswear maker
 Li Ning Co. ’s store in Tumen, China, says Wang Qian, who sells
World Cup-themed athletic shoes emblazoned with German and
Italian flags.  
 Across the Tumen River is North Korea, whose closed economy
discourages growth in northeastern China, the country’s
industrial heartland as recently as two decades ago. Tumen’s
annual per-capita gross domestic product, at 16,000 yuan
($2,342), is two-thirds of the national average. Young adults,
including ethnic Koreans, are leaving for better opportunities,
especially in South Korea.  
 “Most of the people here are over 40, and they’re not the
type who buy a lot of sportswear,” said Wang, 22.  
 More than 70 million Chinese who live in provinces on the
1,415-kilometer (880-mile)  North Korean border  are paying a
price for their government’s 60-year alliance with the
totalitarian regime in Pyongyang.  
 Trade with South Korea, China’s fourth-biggest commerce
partner, is routed toward coastal cities, and projects including
a  development zone  on the Tumen River delta -- where China,
North Korea and Russia meet -- may languish unless  Kim Jong Il 
allows some economic freedom, according to Jin Qiangyi at
 Yanbian University  about 50 kilometers from Tumen.  
 “The border is a dead border,” Jin, an ethnic Korean and
director of the Institute of Northeast Asian Studies, said in a
telephone interview. While China is encouraging North Korea to
open up, it “is refusing. It is very difficult.”  
 Communist Regime  
 One reason is China’s economic and political support for
North Korea’s communist regime, which began when China came to
North Korea’s aid in the 1950-1953 Korean war. China accounted
for 79 percent of the North’s 2009 international trade,
according to the Seoul-based  Korea Trade-Investment Promotion
Agency.  China provides almost 90 percent of energy imports and
45 percent of the country’s food, according to a July 2009
 report  by the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations.  
 Two-way commerce between China and North Korea, at $720
million from January through April, was still about  1 percent  of
the $63 billion total between China and South Korea, according
to Chinese trade data. That gap is evident in Tumen, a city of
136,000 across the river from the North Korean town of Namyang.  
 A group of about 20 peasants could be seen in Namyang
through binoculars on June 4, tending a rocky field on the slope
of a deforested mountain. A lone cow grazed in the marsh near
the river, which flows to the Sea of Japan about 90 kilometers
away.  
 Border Shootings  
 Two men ran across the 69-year-old two-lane bridge into
China, glancing quickly back at the North Korean side. Hours
earlier, three Chinese citizens had been shot dead by North
Korean guards near a similar crossing hundreds of miles to the
southwest.  
 The guards have been “more tense” in recent weeks, said a
41-year-old Tumen woman hawking North Korean money and pins.
They have held up transit of Chinese traders as tensions between
the two Koreas rose following the March 26 sinking of a South
Korean warship, said the woman, who gave only her surname, Li,
because she said she feared being punished for divulging
information to a foreign reporter.  
 North Korea said May 26 it would sever all ties with the
South following a report by a South Korean-led international
panel concluding a North Korean torpedo sank the ship, killing
46 sailors.  
 Near-Empty Streets  
 Tumen’s streets were largely devoid of traffic, and a rock
band from the provincial capital of Changchun played to only a
scattering of onlookers steps from the Li Ning store.  
 Shopkeepers had a ready explanation: emigration to South
Korea by the region’s ethnic Korean population. More than 92
percent, or 1.78 million,  live  in Jilin, Heilongjiang and
Liaoning provinces, with the heaviest concentration in the
prefecture encompassing Tumen.  
 South Korean statistics back up their claim. There were
363,087 ethnic Koreans from China living legally in South Korea
last year, compared with 310,485 in 2007, according to the
 Ministry of Justice .  
 Salaries in South Korea are one attraction. A 45-year-old
taxi driver surnamed Zhang said his wife obtained a forged
marriage certificate showing she was married to a South Korean.
She works in a factory there, making air conditioners and
earning the equivalent of 10,000 yuan a month, five times his
wages. She saves 80,000 yuan a year and plans to return to China
soon, he said. Zhang didn’t want to use his full name because of
his wife’s illegal means of obtaining a visa.  
 Better Business  
 “There’s nothing to do around here,” said Sun Xiaoyu, a
Tumen shopkeeper selling South Korean-made snacks and drinks.
“Business would be much better if we bordered South Korea.”  
 North Korea’s 2008 GDP was about 2 percent of South Korea’s
$930.9 billion total, according to the most recent data from 
South Korea’s  central bank .  
 China has targeted the region for accelerated development
in a  program  called “Revitalize the Old Northeastern Industrial
Base.” One goal is encouraging technology companies to open
manufacturing facilities, replacing jobs lost a decade ago when
state-owned plants were closed in China’s transition to a more
market-driven economy.  
 China also should encourage peaceful Korean reunification
to help spur growth, Jin said, although the increasing tension
makes that a distant prospect right now.  
 “We must just wait,” he said.  
 -- Michael Forsythe . With assistance from  Bomi Lim  in Seoul,
 Stephen Engle  in Beijing and  Inyoung Hwang  in New York. Editors:
 Melinda Grenier ,  Ken Fireman   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       'Dead border' price of China support for North Korea  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Unidentified men run across a bridge for unknown reasons at a border crossing between Namyang, North Korea and Tumen, Jilin province, China. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Unidentified men run across a bridge for unknown reasons at a border crossing between Namyang, North Korea and Tumen, Jilin province, China. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
