-- Nintendo to Feature Mario in 3-D in Overhaul of DS Game Player
-- Masatsugu Horie
-- 2010-06-15T10:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/-mario-goes-3-d-as-nintendo-overhauls-ds-game-player-to-reverse-declines.html

          
          
             Nintendo Co.  President  Satoru Iwata 
will unveil a 3-D portable game player today, betting the
technology that helped “Avatar” break box-office records will
also be popular on screens small enough to fit in one’s pocket.  
 The 3DS, to be shown at 9 a.m. local time at the E3 game
conference in Los Angeles, likely will display sharper images
than the Wii game console and  Sony Corp. ’s PlayStation Portable,
said  Hideki Yasuda , a Tokyo-based analyst at Ace Securities Co.
It will probably feature a camera that tracks users, so the 3-D
picture can be adjusted as they move, and be connected to the
Internet at all times, according to BNP Paribas SA.  
 The product, described by Nintendo as the biggest overhaul
of its handheld player since 2004, highlights the accelerating
adoption of 3-D by consumer-electronics makers to revive
earnings. The Kyoto-based creator of the Mario Brothers game
franchise is facing a second annual  profit decline  as
competition from Sony, Microsoft Corp. and Apple Inc. escalates.  
 “The expectations for the 3DS are extremely high,” said
 Yuuta Sakurai , a Tokyo-based analyst at Nomura Securities Co.
“Starting with the DS and Wii, the company has consistently
released products that no one could imagine and I think this
time, too, they will not fail to surprise.”  
 Biggest Since Game Boy  
 Nintendo  rose 12 percent from March 24 through March 25,
the stock’s biggest two-day rally since November 2008, after the
company’s initial announcement that it would unveil a DS player
able to display 3-D images without any special glasses. The
shares have fallen 18 percent since May 6, when the company
forecast profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  
 Nintendo officials weren’t immediately available to comment
on the product announcement.  
 While the company hasn’t provided technical specifications
for the product, Nintendo of America President  Reggie Fils-Aime 
in April likened the changes to when the company transitioned
from the Game Boy to the dual touch-screen DS in 2004.  
 The new handheld’s camera may track users’ movements and
adjust the depth of 3-D images on the screen,  Hiroshi Kamide , a
Tokyo-based analyst at BNP Paribas, said in a May 13 report. As
in the case with Apple’s iPhone, the 3DS also may allow users to
control games by tilting the device, he said.  
 Mario, Luigi  
 The product also may have a miniature motor that vibrates
in response to a user’s actions, said Kamide, who  recommends 
buying Nintendo shares. He also said the machine may come with
unlimited wireless connectivity, and users would pay per content
download.  
 The higher-resolution display will probably require the new
DS player to include more powerful semiconductors,  Yasuda  said.  
 The 3DS could signal a shift to focus more on upgrading the
hardware, a departure from the typical emphasis on software at
the creator of Mario -- the mustachioed jumping plumber -- and
his sidekick brother Luigi, said Yasuda, who recommends buying
the stock.  
 DS handheld sales worldwide will rise 11 percent to 30
million from 27.1 million in the year ending March, Nintendo
forecast last month. By comparison,  global sales  of its flagship
Wii will probably fall 12 percent to 18 million units, after
declining for the first time last fiscal year, it said.  
 The company earlier this month said it will cut the price
of the DS handheld device for the first time in Japan on June 19
to rekindle stagnating domestic sales.  
 PlayStation, Xbox  
 The recommended retail price for the DSi model will be
reduced 21 percent to 15,000 yen ($163) from 18,900 yen,
Nintendo  said  at the time.  
 Sales of the DS in Japan fell 1.5 percent to about 4
million units in the 12 months ended March 31, according to
Tokyo-based research firm Enterbrain Inc.  
 The Wii faces competition from  Sony ’s PlayStation 3 and
 Microsoft ’s Xbox 360, which will incorporate motion-sensitive
controls in new models, while  Apple ’s iPhone, iPad and iPod
Touch take on the DS.  
 Sony, which dominated the previous generation of game
consoles with its PlayStation 2, is introducing its “Move”
motion-sensing controller for the PS3 to appeal to casual users
and narrow Nintendo’s lead.  
 Microsoft’s Kinect controller-free system, previously known
as Project Natal, lets players operate Xbox games with body
motions instead of pressing buttons or waving a device.  
 Sales of iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad, all of which can be
used to play games, will reach 100 million units this month,
Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  said in May. The Cupertino,
California-based company has sold more than 2 million touch-
screen iPad tablets since its introduction in April.  

 

To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
palpeyev@bloomberg.net;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
mhorie@bloomberg.net


 
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nintendo President Satoru Iwata speaks during a news conference in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu reports on today's top technology news. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
