-- Aeropostale's Ex-Merchandising Chief Finazzo Charged With Wire, Mail Fraud
-- Carlyn Kolker
-- 2010-06-14T16:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/aeropostale-s-former-merchandising-chief-charged-with-wire-mail-fraud.html

          
          
             Aeropostale Inc.’s former
merchandising chief,  Christopher Finazzo , was accused by federal
prosecutors of conspiring to overcharge the teen clothing
retailer on purchases from a vendor and sharing in the proceeds.  
 Finazzo, 54, acted with Douglas Dey, the owner of South Bay
Apparel Inc., a company based in Calverton, New York that sold
clothing to  Aeropostale , according to an indictment by the U.S.
attorney in Brooklyn, New York. They were charged with mail and
wire fraud and money laundering conspiracy. Finazzo was also
charged with making a false statement in a regulatory filing.  
 Aeropostale had no knowledge of the scheme, according to
the indictment, which was unsealed June 11 and made public
today.  
 “Finazzo’s lies and material omissions prevented the SEC
and Aeropostale’s shareholders from learning the full extent of
Finazzo’s compensation from the undisclosed related party
transactions,” according to the indictment.  
 Finazzo pleaded not guilty to the charges on June 11 and
was released on $3 million bail, his attorney Robert Zito said
in a telephone interview. “We are hoping to get a speedy
resolution with the government,” he said.  
 A lawyer for Dey couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  
 Aeropostale said it fired Finazzo in November 2006 for
violating his employment contract and the company’s code of
ethics by not disclosing his affiliations with South Bay.  
 Aeropostale spokesman Kenneth Ohashi didn’t immediately
return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  
 The case is U.S. v. Finazzo, 10cr00457, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlyn Kolker  in New York at 
 ckolker@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        