-- Afghanistan Harbors Mineral Deposits Worth at Least $1 Trillion, U.S. Says
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-06-14T18:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/afghanistan-harbors-mineral-deposits-worth-at-least-1-trillion-u-s-says.html

          
          
             Afghanistan’s untapped mineral
deposits are worth $1 trillion, according to Pentagon officials.  
 That estimate, made in December, “is probably
conservative” because the U.S. Geological Survey says as much
as two-thirds of Afghanistan’s natural resources are yet to be
identified, spokesman Marine Corps Major Shawn Turner said.  
 The December estimate, by a team of Pentagon and State
Department officials charged with jump-starting the Central
Asian nation’s economy, was based on proven reserves and
“someone saying ‘let’s take a look’” at their value, he said.  
 Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  has said mineral resources
will be essential to stabilizing the country, which has the
world’s second-poorest living standards, according to the  United
Nations . Thirty-two years of war and weak institutions have
hampered the development of its two richest known deposits:
Hajigak’s  1.8 billion-ton iron-ore field  west of the capital
Kabul and Aynak’s copper ore south of Kabul.  
 China’s state-owned  Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd.  won a
license in 2007 to develop the Aynak field, where mining had
been blocked by war in the 1980s. The deposit holds 11 million
tons of copper metal, according to a 2008 statement from  Jiangxi
Copper Co. , a partner in the project.  
 The basic information on Afghanistan’s mineral deposits has
been available for several years, but “no one stopped and said
‘what’s it worth’” until late last year, Turner said in an
interview. The $1 trillion estimate is “quite significant with
regard to what it says about Afghanistan’s economic potential.”  
 Survey in 2006  
 The Geological Survey explored Afghanistan in 2006, flying
over part of the country with cameras, ground-penetrating radar
and instruments that measure variations in gravity and magnetic
fields,  according to the USGS website . U.S. military flight
restrictions blocked the agency from surveying the entire
nation, the Geological Survey account shows.  
 According to the Pentagon analysis of the Afghanistan’s
known resources, iron deposits topped the list at $420 billion
and copper was second at $273 billion.  
 Other finds include large deposits of niobium, a soft metal
used in producing superconducting steel, and large gold deposits
in areas of southern Afghanistan, the New York Times reported
today.  
 Pentagon spokesman  Marine Corps Colonel David  Lapan told
reporters today that a team headed by deputy undersecretary of
defense  Paul Brinkley  has been talking with private mining
companies to gauge their interest in working with the Afghan
government. The U.S. has made similar efforts to help Iraq
develop its natural resources and trade.  
 Afghan Mines Ministry  spokesman Jawad Omar declined to
comment on the New York Times report.  
 “We have not received this report from the USGS,” Omar said
in a telephone interview in Kabul. Mines Minister Wahidullah
Shahrani will discuss the survey at a press briefing June 17
after returning from a trip to India, Omar said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        