-- Mahler Gets Sanitized Celebration, Erasing Nazi Cruelty
-- Norman Lebrecht
-- 2010-06-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/mahler-gets-sanitized-celebration-erasing-nazi-cruelty.html

          
          
             Satellite trucks will be struggling
through dense Czech forests in the first week of July, heading
to cover a  ceremony  of extraordinary ambivalence.  
 July 7 marks the 150th birthday of the composer  Gustav Mahler  (1860-1911), the most influential symphonist after
Beethoven and, with Freud and Picasso, one of the makers of
modern culture.  
 Mahler, who directed the  Vienna Opera  and the  New York
Philharmonic , was born in the highland village of Kalischt and
grew up in the military town of Iglau. While the Bohemia-
Moravia borderland was a German-speaking region and Mahler was
a Jew, relations among Czechs, Germans and different faiths
were amicable, so much so that the boy sang in a church choir
and picked up much folklore.  
 He left to study in Vienna at 15 and never returned,
though that is not why the region disowned him. History in
these parts is a patchwork alternation of placid co-existence
and merciless cruelty. When the Czechs formed their first
republic in 1918, Iglau was renamed Jihlava and not much else
changed. Hitler’s troops marched in on May 15, 1939, forcibly
evicted all 1,200 Jews and set fire to the synagogue.  
 Vengeful Czechs  
 Six years later, German residents were driven out by
vengeful Czechs. Today, around Jihlava, the past is a distant
country of which little is known and less spoken, hence the
hedgy attitude toward Mahler, the region’s only claim to
creative fame.  
 With the composer’s anniversary looming and tourism in a
slump, Jihlava put in for a European Union grant to restore
Mahler’s boyhood home. At the foot of the medieval town square,
“House GM” has squatted for decades with just a brass plaque
on its outer wall, the interior preserved pretty much as the
tumbledown multifamily dwelling that Mahler fled.  
 External funds and municipal zeal now have turned it into
an all-purpose museum of impeccable EU blandness, replete with
children’s playroom, safety requisites and dreary exhibitions
of mediocre modern artists. All that remains of Mahler’s time
is the dank cellar where his father brewed brandy, and the
public bar upstairs, which has become a somnolent cafe. The
German and Jewish heritages have been glossed over, laments
Alena Jakubickova, a local historian.  
 Vanished Synagogue  
 North of the square, the town also got around to doing
something about the synagogue desecrated 71 years ago. The
rubble has gone and the site is renamed Gustav Mahler Park, to
be opened on July 7 with a televised performance of his
Resurrection Symphony, featuring soloists Anne-Sofie von Otter
and Birgitte Christensen and the augmented  Mahler Chamber
Orchestra  conducted by Manfred Honeck.  
 The streets of Jihlava have been festooned with Mahler
banners in anticipation of the big day. Still, my fellow bus
passengers knew nothing about him. Only the national composers
Dvorak, Smetana and Janacek are taught in schools. The town
archivist, Renata Piskova, who conserved Mahler’s schoolwork,
told me that under Communism she had been forbidden to waste
public time on this foreigner.  
 Twenty miles away, through thick forest and rolling
meadows, lies the sleepy village of Kaliste (formerly
Kalischt). There’s not a soul on its streets at 6 p.m. on a
Monday evening.  
 ‘Lost Harmony’  
 The composer’s birthplace has twice burned down. Over the
past 16 years, with the help of the American baritone Thomas
Hampson and other musicians, it has been restored by Jiri
Stilec, owner of a Prague record label and president of the
 Czech Mahler Society .  
 “Mahler for me is a mission,” Stilec tells me, “a way
of building a better society. I understand Mahler as a message
of a lost harmony -- among the nations who once lived here,
Czechs, Germans and Jews. Now, only Czechs live here.”  
 Stilec has converted the wayside ruin into a bijou hotel,
owned and operated by the village. There’s a small recital
room, where Hampson will perform on July 7. Guests can stay in
the house where Mahler was born, owned and operated by the
village --  http://www.mahler-penzion.cz/en/  -- and wake up to
the birdsong that fills his first symphony.  
 Mahler described Kaliste as a miserable place -- the name
means “muddy pond” in Czech -- but the surroundings are
heavenly and the silence so pervasive it feels tangible.
Newborn lambs tottered into the yard as I departed. No other
great composer lets you sleep in his home. Mahler, the eternal
outsider, has a place at last to call his own.  
 ( Norman Lebrecht  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are
his own. His book “Why Mahler?” will be published by Pantheon
in the fall.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Norman Lebrecht  in London at  norman@normanlebrecht.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The birthplace of Gustav Mahler in Kaliste, Czech Republic. The building is now the Penzion Mahler, a six double-room inn. Photographer: Norman Lebrecht/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Matriculation Paper  
                       
                         
                           Norman Lebrecht/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A mathematics matriculation paper by Gustav Mahler (circa 1878) in the town archives of Jihlava, Czech Republic. Mahler, who directed the Vienna Opera and the New York Philharmonic, was born in the highland village of Kalischt and grew up in Jihlava. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A mathematics matriculation paper by Gustav Mahler (circa 1878) in the town archives of Jihlava, Czech Republic. Mahler, who directed the Vienna Opera and the New York Philharmonic, was born in the highland village of Kalischt and grew up in Jihlava. Photographer: Norman Lebrecht/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Gustav Mahler Park in Jihlava, Czech Republic. The park is scheduled to open on July 7. Photographer: Norman Lebrecht/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
