-- AIG to Be Final Insurer on U.S. Aid as Lincoln to Exit TARP
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-06-14T20:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/aig-to-be-final-insurer-with-u-s-aid-as-lincoln-national-set-to-exit-tarp.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. ,
recipient of the first and the biggest of U.S. insurer bailouts,
will become the last carrier with public funds now that  Lincoln
National Corp.  plans to repay its rescue.  
 AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , who promised
taxpayers full redemption and a profit, is selling units and
counting on a revival at the businesses that remain. His
stewardship got a vote of confidence from Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 9, while the following day
 Congressional Oversight Panel  Chairman  Elizabeth Warren  said
taxpayers were still saddled with “a lot of risk.”  
 “They’re going to owe their ability to repay the taxpayer
to capital-market conditions that are not in the hands of Robert
Benmosche or Ben Bernanke,” said  Bill Bergman , an analyst at
Morningstar Inc. in Chicago.  
 Lincoln plans to sell shares and notes to fund repayment of
its $950 million in aid, the Philadelphia-based insurer said
today. AIG owes about $26.6 billion on a  Fed credit line  and $49
billion to the Treasury. Its bailout, which dates from September
2008, swelled to as much as $182.3 billion.  
 “AIG remains committed to repaying the taxpayer,”  Mark Herr , a company spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement.
Herr cited Benmosche’s testimony on repayment before Warren’s
committee last month, when the CEO said “AIG will do so with
interest.”  
 Emergency Aid  
 Lincoln and  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. , the
Connecticut-based carrier that repaid $3.4 billion in U.S. aid
in March, won relief funds in 2009 after appealing to Treasury
for the same support offered to banks during the 2008 financial
crisis. Emergency funds for New York-based AIG were provided a
day after the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy to
protect the insurer’s trading partners.  
 “Except for AIG, every other major institution has repaid,
with interest and dividends,” Bernanke told the House Budget
Committee. “And AIG, I believe, will repay.”  
 Lincoln Chief Executive Officer  Dennis Glass  is focusing on
U.S. insurance operations after striking deals to sell a U.K.
business and an asset manager. Last year, Lincoln reduced the
 workforce  by 15 percent to 8,208 employees.  
 “We ended the year in a strong capital position, and our
first-quarter results reflected the strength of our business
model,” Glass said in the statement. “We appreciate the
critical role the government and the American taxpayers have
played in stabilizing the financial markets.”  
 Lincoln Gains  
 Lincoln advanced $1.05, or 4 percent, to $27.41 at 4:04
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer
has climbed about 54 percent in the past 12 months, compared
with a gain of  15 percent  by AIG.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  will lead the offerings. Credit Suisse
Group AG, Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo & Co. will help manage
the equity sale, while Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG
and U.S. Bancorp will assist on the debt offering.  
 Life insurers were cut off from traditional sources of
funding after stock and bond markets fell in late 2008, and at
least 12 carriers applied to Treasury for bailouts. As markets
began to improve in April 2009,  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S.
life insurer, announced that it wouldn’t take U.S. funds. No. 2
 Prudential Financial Inc.  and Principal Financial Group Inc.
turned down bailouts in June of last year.  
 Lincoln took the bailout last year after agreeing in late
2008 to buy a Goodland, Indiana-based savings and loan with $7.3
million in assets to qualify for aid under the Troubled Asset
Relief Program. The insurer reported  three straight  quarterly
losses in the nine months ended June 30 as bond holdings slipped
and the cost of guaranteeing minimum returns on retirement
products called variable annuities increased.  
 Lincoln sold $600 million in stock to private investors a
year ago for $15 each. That offering was part of an effort to
raise capital that included the U.S. bailout and the sale of
$500 million in debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     AIG CEO Robert Benmosche is sellig units and counting on a revival at the businesses that remain. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
