-- AIG Rescue Spared European Banks From Raising $16 Billion
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-06-14T04:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/aig-rescue-spared-european-banks-from-raising-16-billion-u-s-panel-says.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. ’s
U.S. government rescue spared European banks from raising as
much as $16 billion in capital during the depths of the global
financial crisis, according to a Congressional panel.  
 ABN Amro Holding NV and  Danske Bank A/S , Denmark’s biggest
bank, were among the firms that bought the most derivatives
from AIG to trim reserves they held against investment losses,
the  Congressional Oversight Panel  said last week in a  report .
ABN Amro may have had to raise $3.5 billion if New York-based
AIG was allowed to fail in 2008, and Danske Bank would have
lost as much as $2.1 billion in relief, the panel wrote.  
 The banks “would’ve needed to come to the capital markets
in a time when it would’ve been nearly impossible to raise that
kind of capital,” said  Jonathan Hatcher , a Jefferies Group
Inc. desk analyst and former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
bank examiner. “This was point-blank regulatory arbitrage, AIG
lending out its  credit rating  so institutions could hold less
real capital.”  
 The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  weighed the
consequences that an AIG failure would have on Europe’s largest
financial institutions days before the September 2008 rescue,
the panel said. The banks had bought credit-default swaps from
AIG to cut the capital that regulators demanded be held against
potential losses on about $250 billion in securities tied to
mortgages and corporate debt, according to the report.  
 ‘Catastrophic Market Disruptions’  
 The report shows which banks relied most on capital relief
from the insurer. AIG had refused to disclose a list of the
firms, according to the panel, which based its analysis on a
document from the New York Fed with data as of Oct. 1, 2008.
The insurer had named most of the banks, without disclosing the
value of each firm’s coverage, in a confidential presentation
to regulators as AIG appealed in early 2009 for its fourth
rescue.  
 AIG said then that its failure may lead to credit rating
downgrades of the banks, which “could result in catastrophic
market disruptions.”  
 KFW Bank and Credit Logement SA each had $1.9 billion in
capital relief protected by AIG’s rescue, the panel said.
Credit Agricole SA’s Calyon had $1.6 billion, BNP Paribas SA
had $1.5 billion and  Societe Generale SA  had $1 billion. Other
unidentified firms had a total of $2.4 billion.  
 “We entered into the contracts in order to get downside
risk protection on our mortgage portfolio and thereby reduce
risk-weighted assets,” said Peter Rostrup, chief risk officer
at Danske Bank in Copenhagen.  
 The capital relief was about $770 million, rather than the
panel’s $2.1 billion estimate, Rostrup said. He said the
panel’s analysis was based on assumptions that assign too much
risk and that the company would have met capital requirements
even without the AIG contracts.  
 ‘Low Risk’  
 KFW’s contracts with AIG involved “low-risk senior
tranches” of debt, and the use of the derivatives has declined
in the past two years, the bank said in a statement  
 Mark Herr , an AIG spokesman, declined to comment, as did
representatives at BNP Paribas, Societe Generale and Credit
Agricole. A spokeswoman for Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
Netherlands unit, wasn’t immediately able to comment. RBS
bought ABN Amro’s wholesale bank.  
 Credit Logement Chief Financial Officer  Eric Veyrent  said
last year that the firm “wouldn’t be directly touched by an AIG
failure.” He didn’t immediately return a call yesterday outside
of regular business hours.  
 Two days before AIG’s Sept. 16, 2008, rescue,  Timothy F. Geithner , then president of the New York Fed, was sent an e-
mail from  Alejandro LaTorre , an assistant vice president at the
regulator, about the consequences a failure would have on
European firms, according to the report.  
 ‘Significant Problems’  
 “A bankruptcy filing had the potential to cause
significant problems for numerous European banks” and could
have led to their seizure by governments, said the panel, led
by Harvard University law professor  Elizabeth Warren . It is
also possible that “some countries would have granted
forbearance to their banks,” the panel said.  
 Congress created the panel to oversee Treasury Department
activities in stabilizing the economy and the $700 billion
Troubled Asset Relief Program that bailed out firms including
AIG. Geithner, 48, is now Treasury secretary.  
 Goldman Sachs  
 The so-called regulatory relief swaps are separate from
the contracts tied to U.S. subprime mortgages that drained the
insurer of cash in 2008, forcing a bailout that swelled to
$182.3 billion. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Societe Generale
were among the biggest counterparties in those transactions,
which involved multisector collateralized debt obligations.  
 As part of AIG’s third rescue, banks received payments in
exchange for delivering the CDO assets linked to $62.1 billion
in swaps. The securities were placed in a taxpayer-funded
vehicle called Maiden Lane 3.  
 The total size of European bank assets AIG protected
shrank to $109.4 billion as of March 31, about 60 percent
residential loans and the rest largely made of corporate debt,
as some of the contracts expired. The average weighted duration
of the swaps protecting residential loans is 31 years, while
the span tied to corporate loans is about 5 years, AIG said in
a May regulatory filing.  
 AIG has said that it doesn’t expect to make payments tied
to the European swaps. Banks that continue to get regulatory
benefits from the derivatives may not terminate the contracts
as early as expected, AIG said in the May filing.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The headquarters of AIG in New York  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The headquarters of American International Group stand in New York. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The headquarters of American International Group stand in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
