-- Thailand to Offer to Buy Thaicom From Temasek, Gaining Satellite Control
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-06-14T16:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/thailand-to-offer-to-buy-thaicom-from-temasek-gaining-satellite-control.html

          
          
             Thaicom Pcl shares jumped the most
in 12 years after Thailand’s government announced plans to buy
Temasek Holdings Pte’s stake in the satellite monopoly for
national security reasons following anti-government protests.  
 “It’s our policy to buy back the satellite unit from
Thaicom,”  Sirichoke Sopha , a lawmaker in Prime Minister Abhisit
Vejjajiva’s Democrat party, said today by phone. “There is no
formal offer yet. It’s just really a starting of negotiations.”  
 The purchase would end a dispute over the satellite’s
ownership that began when Singapore’s state-owned investment
company bought  Shin Corp.  from the family of former Prime
Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  in 2006. The sale triggered protests
that led to Thaksin’s overthrow in a coup later that year.  
 Thaicom  stock  rose by its daily 30 percent limit in Bangkok
trading, recouping most of its decline so far this year. Shin,
which owns 41 percent of Thaicom, gained 8.9 percent. The
benchmark SET Index increased 1.5 percent.  
 “Thaicom is a listed company in its own right, which is 41
percent owned by Shin Corp.,” Temasek said in an e-mailed
statement. “Any sale of Thaicom is a matter for the boards of
Thaicom and Shin Corp. to consider and decide.”  
 In 2007, Thailand’s military-appointed government started
informal talks with Temasek to buy the satellite company. The
army chief who led the coup warned at the time that Singapore
may be using Shin’s assets to spy on military leaders, a charge
the companies denied.  
 “To the extent that they are getting a fair price for the
satellite company, I don’t see why Temasek would not want to
sell it,” said  Melvyn Teo , a director at the BNP Paribas Hedge
Fund Centre at Singapore Management University. “By not doing
so, they might face repercussions from the Thai government.”  
 ‘Good Reason to Sell’  
 The government’s move to purchase Thaicom came as it
battled anti-government protesters who used the company to
transmit the signal of their satellite television station.
Gunfire exchanges between troops and supporters of ex-leader
Thaksin left 89 people dead over two months.  
 Temasek has “good reason to sell” because its ownership
has “proved an irritant to bilateral relations,”  Prasit Sujiravorakul , an analyst at Bualuang Securities Pcl, wrote in a
report today. It may take some time to price any deal because
Thaicom’s book value is about 14 baht a share, double the
current market price, he wrote.  
 The proposal to buy Thaicom is “really about national
security and nothing else,” said Sirichoke, an aide to Abhisit.
“It’s not about taking out the opposition, because they could
use another satellite which has a footprint in Thailand.”  
 Talks With Temasek  
 Sirichoke visited Singapore in April with Finance Minister
 Korn Chatikavanij  to meet with Temasek, which is “willing to
think about the deal,” he said. The timing and price of the
deal will depend on the finance ministry, Abhisit said today.  
 Korn, in an interview today with the state-owned NBT
television network, said negotiations were at an early stage and
warned investors to be cautious.  
 “I met with Temasek to convey our concern about the role
of its Thai unit, Shin Satellite, during the political rally,”
he told NBT. “There was no discussion about the purchase of the
Shin Satellite stake. Still, the government always has an
interest in returning the satellite business to Thai hands
because it involves national security. But there are a lot of
factors involved. We have to carefully consider whether it’s
worth taxpayers’ money, and whether Temasek is willing to sell.
So I urge investors to be careful.”  
 Public Investment Fund  
 The government may make the purchase either through
government-owned  MCOT Pcl  or one of two state enterprises
controlled by the Ministry of Information and Communications
Technology, Sirichoke said. Authorities may also establish an
investment fund to raise money from the general public to
purchase the shares, he said.  
 Thaicom’s concession expires in 2021, according to its
 website . The company founded by Thaksin in 1991 has reported a
net loss in three of the past four years and hasn’t paid a
dividend since 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The government’s proposal was previously reported by the  Bangkok
Post .  
 Temasek directly owns 41.7 percent of  Shin Corp. , while a
group of investors, including a Temasek unit, holds 54.6
percent, according to Thai stock exchange data.  
 Two weeks before the anti-government protests, Thailand’s
Supreme Court seized 46.4 billion baht ($1.43 billion), or about
60 percent of the amount Thaksin’s family gained from its 2006
sale of Shin to Temasek. Thaksin lives overseas after fleeing a
2008 jail sentence for abuse of power.  
 Breach of Concession  
 The Supreme Court ruled on Feb. 26 that Thaksin favored
Thaicom by allowing it to launch its Ipstar satellite in breach
of its concession to operate the country’s first communications
satellite. Ipstar provides broadband satellite services in 12
countries, from China to Australia.  
 Thaicom is “having a problem about keeping the concession
due to a breach of contract because of the Ipstar,” Sirichoke
said. “The future is not so bright from the satellite side.”  
 The company, which wasn’t a defendant in the lawsuit, said
in a March 2 filing that it fully complied with the concession
terms and would clarify any previous actions. The following
month, Thaicom rebuffed accusations that it hindered government
attempts to block the signal of the anti-government satellite
television station.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Satellite dishes operate at the Thaicom, formerly Shin Satellite, ground control center at Lad Luk Kaew, Patumthani, Thailand. Photographer: Adam Oswell/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Temasek Holdings employee leaves the investment company's headquarters in Singapore. Photographer: Jonathan Drake/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
