-- Taiwan Stocks Rise to Two-Week High on China Trade Pact; Currency Advances
-- Janet Ong
-- 2010-06-14T09:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/taiwan-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-on-china-trade-pact-currency-climbs.html

          
          
             Taiwan ’s stocks rose to a three-week
high and the dollar gained as the island and China agreed to
boost trade worth about $110 billion a year. Bonds fell.  
 The  Taiex Index  rose 1.2 percent to 7,387.4, the highest
since May 20. The local dollar rose 0.3 percent to NT$32.351
against its U.S. counterpart, the strongest level since June 4,
according to Taipei Forex Inc.  
 President  Ma Ying-jeou  has been pushing for a trade pact to
bolster export-dependent Taiwan’s economy after a Chinese
agreement with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations began
this year.  
 “We expect more deregulation in cross-strait investments
and given the slowdown in Europe and the U.S., Taiwan will need
to rely more on China,” said  Dexter Hsu , an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Taipei. “This is likely to increase investment
in Taiwan, attract more tourists and boost domestic
consumption.”  
 Formosa Plastics Corp. , Taiwan’s largest maker of polyvinyl
chloride, gained 2.3 percent, the most since April 26.  Cathay
Financial Holding Co. , the island’s biggest listed financial
service company, increased 2.5 percent.  
 Taiwan and China will hold a fourth round of negotiations
before signing the trade agreement, Premier  Wu Den-yih  said
today, according to a live broadcast on Taipei-based FTV TV news.
Taiwan still aims to sign the agreement at the end of the month,
Wu said.  
 Details  
 “We are still working on details, but the basic agreement
has been reached,”  Tang Wei , head of Taiwan, Hong Kong and
Macau affairs at China’s Ministry of Commerce, said late
yesterday after talks in Beijing with  Huang Chih-peng , director-
general of Taiwan’s Bureau of Foreign Trade.  
 The yield on the 1.375 percent bond maturing March 2020
climbed two basis points to 1.49 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market, Taiwan’s biggest exchange for bonds. Its
price fell 0.1437, or NT$143.7 per NT$100,000 face amount, to
98.9851. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Under the  Economic Cooperation Framework Agreement , tariffs
would be lowered on more than 200 items including car parts,
petrochemicals and machinery traded from China to Taiwan, and on
about 500 items in the opposition direction, Tang and Huang told
reporters in Beijing yesterday.  
 China and Taiwan agreed to widen access to each other’s
banks, securities and insurance industries as cross-strait
relations reached their warmest in 60 years after Ma took office
two years ago and abandoned his predecessor’s pro-independence
stance. The two sides also agreed to allow more visitors and
resumed direct shipping, air and postal links in December 2008.  
 Ruled Separately  
 Taiwan and China have been ruled separately since  Chiang Kai-shek ’s Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the island after
being defeated by  Mao Zedong ’s Communist forces in 1949. China
regards Taiwan as part of its territory and has threatened to
invade if Taiwan declares formal independence.  
 “Signing the ECFA is a route that Taiwan must take and it
is a milestone,” said  Liu Bih-rong , a professor of political
science at Soochow University in Taipei. “It signifies how the
relationship between the two sides has recovered and, more
importantly, it will pave the way for more free-trade agreements
and benefits.”  
 Taiwan and China agreed in December to boost cooperation in
fishing, agriculture and industrial goods at the fourth cross-
strait talks. In November, they signed three memoranda of
understanding to ease access to each other’s banking, securities
and insurance industries.  
 Growth, Jobs  
 The proposed trade pact will boost the island’s economic
growth by between 1.65 percent and 1.72 percent annually and
create more than 260,000 jobs, Ma’s administration said, citing
a government study. The accord would also help attract over $8.9
billion in foreign direct investment over the next seven years.  
 In 2009, Taiwan’s exports to China and Hong Kong were worth
$84.7 billion while the island’s imports from China and Hong
Kong totaled $25.5 billion, Mei Jia-yuan, a section chief at the
Directorate-General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics, said
by phone today.  
 Exports account for more than two-thirds of Taiwan’s
NT$12.8 trillion ($409 billion) economy. China is its biggest
investment destination and together with Hong Kong combines for
about 40 percent of the overall export market. Taiwanese
businesses have invested an estimated $150 billion in China
since 1991.  
 Asean  
 Taiwan has been unable to join the wave of bilateral and
multilateral free-trade agreements in recent years because China
regards the island as a rebellious province.  
 The opposition Democratic Progressive Party opposes the
trade accord and plans to protest in Taipei on June 26,  Tsai Chi-chang , a spokesman for the DPP said by telephone today. The
party on Dec. 20 rallied 100,000 people in Taichung city to
protest Ma’s China policies.  
 “Even if the opposition gains power in future, with such a
framework it would be difficult for them to reverse the entire
decision,” said Soochow University’s Liu.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim at   Wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Ong  at   jong3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        