-- Major League Baseball Blocked Rangers From Making Better Deal, Lawyer Says
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-06-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/major-league-baseball-blocked-rangers-from-making-better-deal-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             Major League Baseball prohibited the
Texas Rangers from pursuing a sale to Houston businessman  Jim Crane , leaving the team “stuck” with a deal it didn’t like,
according to e-mails from a team lawyer.  
 The league blocked the team from talking with “anyone
other than”  Chuck Greenberg , who has an agreement to buy the
team, even though Crane offered “a clearly superior economic
deal” during negotiations last year, according to a lawyer for
Hicks Sports Group, the owner of the Rangers.  
 “We need help here,”  Glenn West  wrote in a Dec. 31
e-mail. “Unless the lenders weigh in, we are going to be stuck
negotiating a deal that is clearly worse than Crane’s.” The
e-mail was sent to various people including executives at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , which represents the first-lien lenders in
the bankruptcy case.  
 West’s e-mails, made public yesterday in the Rangers’
bankruptcy case, show the team favored Crane’s offer and clashed
with the league over the handling of the sale negotiations.
Since filing for bankruptcy last month, the Rangers have said
the sale to Greenberg is the best deal for the team.  
 Rich Levin , a spokesman for Major League Baseball, couldn’t
be reached for comment yesterday. Greenberg, who has formed a
partnership with Rangers president  Nolan Ryan  to buy the team,
also couldn’t be reached.  Mark Semer , a team spokesman, declined
to comment. Crane couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 Potential Battle  
 In a court filing June 11, the team said the $575 million
sale to Greenberg and Ryan, which requires bankruptcy court
approval, offers “the best combination of price and least
execution risk.” That risk includes “a potential uphill
battle” for a rival to secure the league’s consent.  
 Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  described the proposed sale
as in the best interests of baseball in an April 30 letter to
 JPMorgan Chase . Selig said he was “extremely disappointed” the
lenders refused to consent to the sale.  
 The lenders oppose the Greenberg sale and are calling on
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  in Fort Worth, Texas, to
order a competitive sale process for the team.  
 The exact terms of Crane’s bid were redacted in the
e-mails, which were included as part of a court filing by the
Rangers’ lenders. In a January e-mail, West wrote that Crane’s
offer was “at least $13 million and perhaps more than
$20 million ahead of Greenberg with a lot more certainty of
closing.”  
 West wrote, “We are quite worried that if we don’t move to
Crane immediately we will lose them completely.”  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners,
10-43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas
(Fort Worth).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        