-- Half of Insurance Plans Will Lose Exception to New Health Rules
-- Alex Nussbaum
-- 2010-06-14T21:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/half-of-insurance-plans-will-lose-exception-to-new-health-rules.html

          
          
             Almost half of large employers will
lose “grandfather status” exceptions to government rules for
their insurance plans under the health overhaul by 2013,
according to a government analysis of the law’s impact.  
 President  Barack Obama , in pushing for the overhaul, said
everyone who liked their coverage would be able to keep it once
the law passed. An administration review released today of the
new rules estimated 45 percent of large employer plans and 66
percent of small-employer programs are likely to lose their
exemptions to regulations requiring mandatory preventive care
and guaranteed ability of people to renew coverage.  
 The loss of grandfather status will require a health plan
to change to fit the new requirements. The changes may provide
additional benefits and consumer protections for those covered
by the plan, and may also mean higher costs or employers ending
coverage in favor of workers getting it through an insurance
exchange to be set up by the government in 2014.  
 The options for businesses are to “suck up the increased
cost to maintain the coverage you know, or go out and shop for
coverage you don’t know at a higher cost, or you give up
coverage altogether,” said  Michelle Dimarob , a lobbyist with
the National Federation of Independent Businesses.  
 Small Business  
 “For small biz, ‘If you like what you’ve got, you can keep
it,’ becomes ‘If you like what you’ve got, you might be able to
keep it until 2011,’” when roughly 30 percent of small-business
health plans are expected to lose their status, Dimarob said in
a telephone interview. The  federation  is based in Nashville,
Tennessee and represents small business interests.  
 If an insurance plan has a $30 copayment requirement for a
visit to a specialist and increases it to $45, that change would
end the health plan’s grandfather status and make it subject to
more new rules, as an example of the regulations provided by the
administration’s analysis.  
 Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
reiterated the administration’s promise that workers would be
able to keep their current health coverage. at a press
conference today discussing the new regulations.  
 The rules “make good on the president’s promise that
Americans can keep their health plan and doctor they like,” she
said today at a press conference. The regulations will give
employers “a wide berth of flexibility” she said, and would
avoid “a massive shift of costs to employees.”  
 Impact Assessment  
 The administration’s economic impact assessment said the
majority of large employers will lose grandfathered status by
2013. The “mid-range” estimate of the rules’ impact says that
51 percent of employers will lose grandfather status for their
plans by 2013. That exemption to rules was an advantage for some
employer plans.  
 Exempting more policies is “good for the health plans,”
said  Ana Gupte , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New
York, in a telephone interview. “The higher the percentage of
plans they can consider grandfathered, the more flexibility they
have in providing benefit designs that don’t meet the minimum
requirements in the law, which become very, very constraining.”  
 Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky
criticized the new rules, saying they represented a broken
promise by Obama.  
 Government Promise  
 “The government is about to change the plans most
Americans have,” McConnell said in a speech on the Senate
floor. That means “one more promise the administration has
broken on health care.”  
 Health insurers are still assessing the regulations, said
 Robert Zirkelbach , a spokesman for America’s Health Insurance
Plans, the industry’s trade group in Washington, D.C.  
 “Employees should be able to keep the high-quality health
care coverage they currently receive from their employers -- a
key promise of health-care reform,” Zirkelbach said in an e-
mail. “Routine changes to a policy should not cause employers
and individuals to lose the important protection that
grandfathering provides.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net .
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        