-- Alleged Torture Victim Arar Rebuffed by U.S. Supreme Court Suit Revival
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-14T17:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/alleged-torture-victim-rebuffed-by-u-s-supreme-court-on-revival-of-suit.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court  refused to
revive a lawsuit by a Canadian man who said he was mistakenly
identified as a suspected al-Qaeda member, arrested at a New
York airport and sent to Syria to be tortured.  
 The justices today let stand a federal appeals court ruling
throwing out the suit by  Maher Arar  against officials in former
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, including ex-Attorney
General  John Ashcroft . The 7-4 lower court ruling said Congress
hadn’t authorized suits seeking damages for so-called
extraordinary rendition.  
 Arar said in his lawsuit that, during his 13-day detention
in New York in 2002, government officials systematically limited
his access to a lawyer and his ability to seek a court order
blocking his transfer to Syria.  
 Arar, a native of Syria with dual nationality, was held in
that country for a year. A Canadian inquiry later found he
wasn’t linked to terrorism.  
 President  Barack Obama ’s administration urged the Supreme
Court not to hear the appeal, saying the case concerned the
vulnerability of government officials to suit and not the
propriety of torture.  
 “This case does not concern the propriety of torture or
whether it should be countenanced by the courts,” argued   Neal Katyal , who is serving as acting U.S. solicitor general during
the Supreme Court nomination of  Elena Kagan .  
 Bush’s Justice Department said in 2008 that Arar was
legally deported to Syria and that Syria provided assurances he
wouldn’t be tortured.  
 Arar’s supporters at the Supreme Court included Canadian
scholars, Canadian and international human rights organizations
and a group of retired federal judges.  
 Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman  Patrick Leahy,  a
Vermont Democrat, called the treatment of Arar “a stain on this
nation’s legacy as a human rights leader around the world.”  
 The case is Arar v. Ashcroft, 09-923.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        