-- Altitude Slows World Cup Players Even As They Come Prepared
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-06-14T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/altitude-slows-world-cup-soccer-players-even-after-they-arrive-prepared.html

          
          
             World Cup soccer players in South
Africa say they are unable to perform to their full potential
during games at high altitude even after preparing for it.  
 Breathless players are taking two or three times as long to
recover from exerting themselves, according to Netherlands
forward  Dirk Kuyt , who scored in his team’s 2-0 win over Denmark
yesterday, played 1,753 meters (5,752 feet) above sea level at
Johannesburg’s Soccer City.  
 “You’re getting tired quicker,” Kuyt said in an interview
following a game whose opening half was rarely played beyond
walking pace. “That’s why the match was a bit slow.”  
 The struggles come even after the 32 qualifiers scrambled
for training facilities beforehand to help them prepare for the
thinner air. Six of the tournament’s  10 stadiums  are located
more than 1,200 meters above sea level.  
 Teams including Argentina, Brazil, England and Germany
trained at high-altitude camps to try and get their players used
to operating with less oxygen than they’re used to. Several
squads also traveled to European training camps situated at
least 1,000 meters above sea level to prepare for the four-
yearly championship.  
 Brazil coach  Carlos Dunga  said yesterday the record five-
time world champion arrived in South Africa earlier than usual
to try to adapt.  
 “It’s very difficult for someone who arrives the day
before a game but all teams knew beforehand the altitude
factor,” Dunga told reporters in Johannesburg. “The Europeans
are not used to this but if they go to Bolivia and play a
friendly game they’ll realize what altitude is all about.  
 ‘Finished’  
 Denmark defender  Daniel Agger , Kuyt’s teammate at English
Premier League club Liverpool, said the Danes were physically
spent toward the end of a game in which they had 42 percent of
the possession.  
 “We played well in the first half but everybody was
finished in the last 15 minutes,” he said in an interview.
“It’s a lot harder, but it’s the same for everyone.”  
 The Dutch got their opening goal of the tournament when
Denmark’s Simon Poulsen attempted to clear a cross, only for the
ball to ricochet into the net off Agger’s back.  
 The elevated atmosphere is also affecting the movement of
the World Cup’s match ball, said Erik van Leeuwen, a spokesman
for manufacturer Adidas AG.  
 “It’s very difficult and it flies the other way,” said
Agger, echoing other player’s comments about the ‘Jabulani’ ball.
Poulsen “tried to head it away and it changed direction.”  
 Only one of the tournament’s first 11 games has produced
more than two goals: Germany’s 4-0 rout of Australia played at
sea level in the east coast city of Durban.  
 “Imagine you’re running on a treadmill and you have a mask
which is sucking all the oxygen away from you or you’re running
in a sauna,” Netherlands substitute defender  Khalid Boulahrouz 
said in an interview. “Then imagine playing for 90 minutes at
world-class level.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Soccer City via London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  at Soccer City at 
1929 or  fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The matchball Jabulani prior to the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa Group F match between Italy and Paraguay at Green Point Stadium in Cape Town. Photographer: Jamie McDonald/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
