-- Alzheimer's Risk May Not Improve With Exercise, Healthy Food, Panel Says
-- Nicole Ostrow
-- 2010-06-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/alzheimer-s-risk-may-not-improve-with-exercise-healthy-food-panel-says.html

          
          
             Exercising or following the
Mediterranean diet may not slow memory loss or lower a person’s
chance of developing Alzheimer’s disease, an analysis of
research found.  
 Combined data from 275 studies found weak evidence of a
benefit, not enough to warrant government recommendations that
people change their habits to lessen the risk for the illness, a
panel advising the National Institutes of Health said in a
statement. The findings accompanied an analysis of research on
cognitive decline today in the  Annals of Internal Medicine .  
 Brenda Plassman , lead author of the study and part of the
team that prepared the evidence report for the NIH panel, said
she had hoped to identify actions that people could change to
preserve their cognitive health. Instead, the analysis found
evidence of increased risks linked to a genetic factor, ApoE,
and to smoking, diabetes and depression. Future studies may yet
show that exercise and certain diets are beneficial, she said.  
 “It makes sense I would say for individuals to continue to
choose a very active lifestyle and to choose a heart-healthy
diet given the other benefits to the heart and body,” said
Plassman, an associate research professor at Duke University
Medical Center in Durham, North Carolina. “The information is
not sufficient to recommend any single activity to protect
against cognitive decline,” she said in a June 11 telephone
interview.  
 Available Evidence  
 Today’s findings assessed the available scientific evidence
on the link among behaviors that people may change, such as diet
and exercise, and cognitive decline and Alzheimer’s disease, the
most common form of dementia.  
 People with cognitive decline, which can occur as a normal
course of aging, have an increased likelihood of progressing to
mild cognitive impairment of language and memory, and dementia,
the researchers said. More than 5.1 million in the U.S. may have
Alzheimer’s disease and many more have mild cognitive
impairment, the scientists said.  
 “We get questions all the time about what people can do to
prevent Alzheimer’s disease or cognitive decline and we weren’t
sure there was really sufficient evidence to make any kinds of
recommendations,” said  Neil Buckholtz , chief of the  National
Institute on Aging ’s Dementias of Aging Branch, in a June 11
telephone interview. “We wanted to assess this in a more formal
way.”  
 Panel Members  
 The panel members were health professionals,
epidemiologists and public representatives who don’t specialize
in the field and have no financial or research interest in the
topic, Buckholtz said.  
 They found that  exercise  and dietary factors were
“probably” associated with a lower risk of cognitive decline
and delaying the onset of Alzheimer’s disease. The beneficial
foods included the Mediterranean diet, rich in fish, fruits and
vegetables and meals high in omega-3 fatty acids. The quality of
the evidence was low, so no recommendations could be made, the
panel said.  
 A review of studies showed there were no consistent
findings of increased risk for Alzheimer’s disease and cognitive
decline in people who are obese or who have high blood pressure,
they wrote.  
 “Unfortunately there’s nothing that can be recommended at
the present time that will absolutely prevent people from
getting Alzheimer’s disease or cognitive decline,” Buckholtz
said. “There are a number of different hints that things may be
useful, but we really need to do more studies.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        