-- Ambac Has Alternatives to Bankruptcy, Chairman Says
-- Christine Richard
-- 2010-06-14T22:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/ambac-has-alternatives-to-bankruptcy-filing-bond-insurer-s-chairman-says.html

          
          
             Ambac Financial Group Inc.  has
alternatives to bankruptcy, including a possible infusion of
capital from financial companies that have sold credit-default
swap protection on it, the bond insurer’s chairman said.  
 “Someone who has sold protection has a strong interest in
preventing a bankruptcy,”  Michael Callen  said today at Ambac’s
annual shareholder meeting in New York. “Someone who sold
protection could put money into your company.”  
 The parent of Ambac Assurance Corp., the insurer that
halted payments on certain claims for bonds it guaranteed, said
in a June 8 filing that it’s considering court protection
because it’s unable to take dividends from the unit to cover
holding company expenses. Ambac has $1.5 billion of debt,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The amount of protection written on Ambac debt exceeds the
amount of the company’s debt outstanding, Chief Executive
Officer  David Wallis  said in an interview after the meeting.  
 An investor might put money into Ambac for two reasons,
Wallis said.  
 “Either they see value inside the company or they are
seeking to mitigate a loss outside of the company,” he said.  
 Ambac rose 14 cents, or 20 percent, to 83 cents in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares, which traded as
high as $96.08 in May 2007, are little changed this year.  
 Ambac was the second-largest bond insurer before the onset
of the credit crisis. It was stripped of its top credit ratings
in 2008 as losses on securities linked to mortgages soared.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        