-- America Movil May Not Buy More Telint Stock to Complete Deal, CFO Says
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-06-14T22:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/america-movil-may-not-buy-more-telint-stock-to-complete-deal-cfo-says.html

          
          
             America Movil SAB  may decide against
buying the remaining shares in Telmex Internacional SAB to
complete its merger, reducing the possibility of a better deal
for investors who didn’t accept the earlier offer.  
 America Movil, Latin America’s largest wireless carrier,
hasn’t made a final decision, Chief Financial Officer  Carlos Garcia Moreno  said in a phone interview. It would be “logical”
to let the remaining shares keep  trading  on Mexico’s exchange,
Garcia Moreno said.  
 The company is seeking to combine with Telmex Internacional
to gain home-phone, Internet and television networks in Brazil
and other parts of South America. Enough Telmex Internacional
investors accepted a cash-and-stock offer for their shares to
give America Movil a 93 percent stake, the carrier said last
week.  
 America Movil, based in Mexico City, had planned to delist
the shares in Mexico after the deal is completed. Investors
holding 95 percent of the stock would have to approve the
delisting.  
 “We have several subsidiaries in which there are minority
shareholders,” Garcia Moreno said. “The shares can remain
listed in Mexico without any problem.”  
 America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , fell
12 centavos to 31.05 pesos at 4:05 p.m. New York time in Mexico
City trading.  Telmex Internacional  dropped 28 centavos to 11.30
pesos.  
 Additional Costs  
 America Movil will spend about $22.7 billion, including
about $2.1 billion in cash and the rest in stock, to pay
shareholders of Telmex Internacional and its holding company,
Carso Global Telecom SAB, who accepted its offer by June 10, the
company said last week.  
 America Movil said in a March 24  regulatory filing  that
failure to delist Telmex Internacional shares “may generate
additional expenses and result in administrative
inefficiencies,” including maintaining separate board
committees.  
 Even without the delisting, the companies will be
“integrated for the most part, practically,” Garcia Moreno
said.  
 He said the company will proceed with delisting the U.S.
shares of Mexico City-based Telmex Internacional, also
controlled by Slim.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        