-- Apple Under Growing U.S. Pressure to Ease Software Limits
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/apple-under-pressure-to-ease-software-limits-as-jobs-s-influence-expands.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. , under growing scrutiny
from antitrust regulators, may have to loosen restrictions on
software developers and music labels to avoid legal wrangling
with the government and prevent damage to how its brand is
perceived by the public, lawyers and analysts said.  
 Federal Trade Commission officials are preparing to review
allegations that Apple is trying to trammel rivalry in mobile
advertising, people familiar with the matter said last week.
Regulators were already weighing a probe of Apple’s treatment of
Adobe Systems Inc., and the U.S. Justice Department has made
preliminary inquiries into Apple’s behavior in the music market.  
 The heightened scrutiny may prompt the company to give
programmers more leeway in how they build applications for Apple
products, said  Andrew Gavil , who teaches antitrust law at  Howard
University  in Washington. The inquiries indicate government
concern that Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs may be trying to
exert too much control over industries as varied as digital
music, software development and mobile advertising.  
 “Apple needs to be prepared that all of their actions will
be put under a microscope,” said Michael Gartenberg, a partner
at the Altimeter Group in San Mateo, California. “They need to
make sure they don’t cross the line.”  
 Apple spokesman Steve Dowling didn’t respond to a request
for comment. FTC spokesman Peter Kaplan declined to comment.  
 Apple, based in Cupertino, California, gained $3 to $253.51
on the Nasdaq Stock Market on June 11, capping a  year-to-date 
gain of 20 percent.  
 Apple’s Advance  
 As Apple enters new markets, it’s trying to maintain
control not only over its  products  but also the applications
made by third-party developers that run on those machines. For
instance, it issues guidelines that limit the use of outside
software in creating tools and games for its iPad tablet
computer, or ads that appear in apps on the iPhone.  
 While the company competes aggressively, it’s probably not
violating antitrust laws, Gartenberg said.  
 Still, problems arise if Apple gives the impression it’s
trying to hamper competition, said Gavil at Howard University.  
 The latest flap involves a set of instructions for
developers building applications for use on Apple’s iPhone.
Google Inc. unit AdMob said this week that the rules, if
enforced, bar the use of Google and AdMob advertising software.
The rules were proposed June 7.  
 ‘Hamper Competition’  
 “It does really look like these agreements are designed to
hamper competition,” Gavil said. “The question really becomes,
do they have any legitimate business justifications for that?
It’s not hard to see how that can disadvantage a rival.”  
 Omar Hamoui , founder of Google’s newly acquired AdMob
mobile-ad service, wrote in a June 9  blog posting  that the
prohibitions jeopardize the revenue AdMob gets from the iPhone
and hurts software developers.  
 Already, some programmers are shunning Google tools as they
tailor apps for Apple products. Bill Predmore, president of  POP ,
which builds mobile applications and ads for companies including
Target Corp. and Microsoft Corp., said his company will avoid
using AdMob until Google and Apple work out a solution.  
 Antitrust enforcers in early May were said to be weighing
an investigation of Apple after  Adobe Systems Inc.  complained
that Apple is stifling competition by barring developers from
using Adobe’s software to create applications for iPhones and
iPads, people familiar with the matter said then.  
 Three weeks later, the Justice Department was said to be
looking at how Apple runs its iTunes digital music service.  
 ‘Peek Under Hood’  
 The inquiries may not yield the kinds of lawsuits that
plagued Microsoft Corp. in the 1990s because Apple’s share of
markets is smaller, Gavil said.  
 Yet, the deeper the government probes, the more leverage it
gains in shaping Apple’s behavior, said analysts at Baltimore-
based Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. in a June 11 research note.  
 “Every time a company comes before DOJ or the FTC, staff
get to peek under the hood and acquire information that they can
later connect with additional information to develop a theory of
harm,” wrote Rebecca Arbogast and George Askew.  
 FTC officials can issue a so-called consent decree that
details the behavior a company needs to avoid, Gavil said.  
 In some instances, a company will change tack before the
government forces its hand, said Jonathan Potter, an attorney
and former executive director of the  Digital Media Association .
Apple is a board member of the trade group.  
 ‘Lawyer Up’  
 Any investigation “will be of concern and will obligate
one to lawyer up, as they say on the TV cop shows, in a very
significant way, and will cause at least consideration of one’s
business practices,” said Potter, who’s based in Washington.  
 In mobile advertising, Gavil said Apple may have to soften
the rules that developers say prevent applications for Apple
devices from using Mountain View, California-based Google or its
AdMob unit to track and display advertising. Apple is preparing
to start showing ads from its rival iAd network in July.  
 “I can’t live on iAd alone,” said Greg Woock, CEO of
 Pinger Inc. , a San Jose, California-based maker of a free
texting app. “I need Google too.” He said his products
generate 800 million ad views a month and only Google has enough
ads available to fill that.  
 Changes may also be in order in the way Apple operates in
music, said Gregory Weston, founder of the  Weston Firm , a San
Diego-based law firm that represents small businesses.  
 As the top music retailer, Apple can press music companies
to agree to terms. Apple has told some labels if they promote an
album through Amazon.com Inc.’s “Deal of the Day” it won’t
market the music as prominently on iTunes, a music industry
executive who declined to be identified said last month.  
 Meanwhile, as regulatory actions concerning Apple mushroom,
the company’s days as a scrappy upstart that can compete as it
sees fit may be ending, Gartenberg said.  
 “This is the end of the age of Apple’s innocence, it will
be harder and harder for them to maintain that image of the
underdog,” he said. “They have achieved a certain degree of
success, and with that success comes scrutiny.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs demonstrates the FaceTime video call functionality of the iPhone 4 during his keynote address at the Apple Worldwide Developers Conference in San Francisco. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
