-- Argentine Bonds Rise for a Fifth Straight Day on Stocks as Swap Nears End
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-06-14T21:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/argentine-bonds-rise-for-a-fifth-straight-day-on-stocks-as-swap-nears-end.html

          
          
             Argentine dollar bonds rose as the
nation’s offer to restructure $18.3 billion worth of defaulted
bonds held out of a 2005 settlement nears its June 22 deadline.  
 The yield on Argentina’s 7 percent dollar bond due in 2015
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 14.05
percent at 5:37 p.m. New York time. The price rose 0.15 cents to
75.69 cents on the dollar, the highest since June 3, after
reaching 76.9 cents on the dollar earlier in the day.  
 “Bonds opened strong, in line with markets overseas and at
the end they fell off in line with what occurred outside”
Argentina, said  Noelia Lucini , a portfolio manager with Capital
Markets Argentina in Buenos Aires.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index fell 0.2 percent after
Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s credit rating to non-
investment grade, or junk.  
 Argentine Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  traveled to
Japan to meet with investors today about the debt swap, before
flying to Italy later this week, ministry spokesman Sergio Poggi
said. Individual investors in Italy may hold between $2 billion
and $4 billion, Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  has said.  
 As of June 11, creditors had tendered about 56 percent of
the outstanding bonds, Poggi said. Boudou has said he expects
participation to reach 60 percent.  
 Argentina’s restructuring offer includes dollar bonds due
in 2033, warrants linked to gross domestic product and bonds due
in 2017 to pay past-due interest. The offer doesn’t include
past-due payments on the GDP warrants.  
 “If I were the Argentines, I would extend the swap
deadline because markets are taking a turn for the better,”
said  Alberto Bernal , a fixed income analyst with Bulltick
Capital Markets in Miami.  
 Swap Opening  
 President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  opened the debt
swap May 3, five years after her husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , offered creditors about 30 cents on the dollar, the
harshest restructuring terms since at least World War II,
according to  Arturo Porzecanski , an international finance
professor at American University in Washington.  
 Argentina defaulted on $95 billion in 2001 and a successful
restructuring will help the country regain access to
international credit markets. It will also lower borrowing costs
for provinces and companies that seek to sell debt.  
 Provincial Bonds  
 Argentina’s southern Chubut province this month announced
the sale of $150 million worth of debt securities backed by oil
and gas royalties to be paid by Pan American Energy LLC, the
Argentine unit of London-based BP Plc. Chubut Governor Mario das
Neves will be in New York tomorrow to launch the international
offer, which was announced last week.  
 Buenos Aires province, Argentina’s biggest, is waiting for
the federal government to conclude the debt swap before it moves
ahead with plans to sell $500 million in bonds, provincial
spokeswoman  Felisa Stangatti  said today in a telephone interview
in Buenos Aires.  
 Argentine real estate developer IRSA Inversiones y
Representaciones SA said in a filing with the Buenos Aires Stock
Exchange today that it is extending an offer to sell $250
million in 10-year bonds until June 24. The offer had been
scheduled to end today.  
 The government already extended its debt restructuring
offer once, from its original June 7 deadline, in a bid to
increase participation. Boudou and Lorenzino have not mentioned
a second swap extension, Poggi said.  
 The peso slid 0.1 percent to 3.9262 per dollar, from 3.9236
at the end of last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        