-- Harvard Medical School Places No. 62 in `Social Mission' Study
-- Pat Wechsler
-- 2010-06-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/harvard-medical-ranks-no-62-in-social-mission-study-of-141-institutions.html

          
          
             Harvard Medical School didn’t make
it into the top 50 in a ranking based on how many primary-care
doctors the schools produced and how well they served minority
communities. Other top East Coast institutions also fell short.  
 The study of 141 U.S. medical schools and 60,043 graduates,
published today in the Annals of Internal Medicine, focused on
what it called the “social mission” of these institutions. It
found the top performers were state-run universities and schools
originally set up to teach minorities. The three highest-rated
schools, including No. 1-ranked  Morehouse School of Medicine  in
Atlanta, were created to educate blacks.  
 For other, often-quoted  rankings , medical schools were
judged on how much research they do or on “subjective” faculty
opinions, said  Fitzhugh Mullan , a study coauthor. While
important, these measures don’t gauge a school’s quality in its
mission of training doctors to treat people, he said.  
 “Some schools focus on research and pay less attention to
generating doctors that work with the population and are fairly
distributed,” said Mullan, a pediatrician and public-health
professor at George Washington University, in Washington, where
four of the study’s authors are affiliated.  
 The top three medical schools for research in U.S. News &
World Report’s 2010 graduate-school rankings were Harvard in
Boston, the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in
Philadelphia and Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in
Baltimore, in that order. Under the new metric, those three
finished 62nd, 122nd and 129th, respectively. George Washington
School of Medicine & Health Sciences, in Washington, was 60th.  
 Yale, Dartmouth  
 After Morehouse, the second-ranked school in the study was
 Meharry Medical College  in Nashville, Tennessee, while Howard
University College of Medicine in Washington came in third. The
lowest-ranked medical schools in the study were Northwestern
University Feinberg School of Medicine, in Chicago, University
of Texas Southwestern  Medical School  at Dallas, and Vanderbilt
School of Medicine, in Nashville, Tennessee. They show up in
139th, 140th and 141st place.  
 Other schools ranked include Yale School of Medicine in New
Haven, Connecticut, which finished 51st; Dartmouth Medical
School in Hanover, New Hampshire, 59th; and Brown University’s
Warren Alpert Medical School in Providence, Rhode Island, 66th.  
 A Harvard spokeswoman, Alyssa C. Kneller, said the medical
school “does not comment on rankings, including those generated
through this study.” Other schools didn’t respond immediately.  
 The rankings are based on how many of the schools’
graduates practice in primary care, how many work in what are
classified by the government as areas with a shortage of health
professionals, and how many belong to minorities that don’t have
enough doctors serving them. The study defines that term as
blacks, Hispanics and American Indians. Asians aren’t included.  
 Underserved Areas  
 Of Harvard’s graduates surveyed, 23 percent went into
primary care, compared with 44 percent at Morehouse. As for
graduates practicing in underserved areas, Harvard’s tally was
33 percent and Morehouse’s was 39 percent.  
 The authors used data collected by the  American Medical
Association  in Chicago, the  Association of American Medical
Colleges  in Washington and the Association of American Colleges
of Osteopathic Medicine in Chevy Chase, Maryland.  
 Those included in the study graduated from 1999 to 2001.
The turn-of-the-decade data was chosen because the researchers
needed to be able to track doctors after they finished
residencies to see where they settled and in what areas they
were practicing, Mullan said.  
 ‘People Make Choices’  
 “Kids come into med school wanting to be primary care
doctors and then they change by the end,” said Joe O’Donnell,
the senior advising dean at Dartmouth. “People make choices
based on values, so if people start to value primary care then
more people will choose it. We can hope that health care reform
will help to change things.”  
 Richard Silverman, director of admissions at Yale’s medical
school, said social commitment is important to Yale students,
and not all the work they do in underserved areas around the
world would be captured in a survey like this.  
 “Many of our graduates may not be primary-care doctors,
but they are providing daily care in places like Haiti,” he
said. “It would be inaccurate to think Yale is interested only
in research.”  
 The dependence on research dollars at some schools can
interfere with their focus on the goal of producing more
primary-care doctors, Mullan said. By recruiting more female,
minority and older students, the schools could raise their
numbers of primary-care doctors, he said. Studies have shown
that these students are more likely to pick primary care.  
 Research Culture  
 In research-oriented cultures, the “role models” are
doctors who have gone into specialties and taken a more
scientific route and “students take the lead from what they
see,” Mullan said.  
 “A medical school is the only institution in the country
that can grant a diploma to be a physician,” Mullan said.
“It’s important for schools to reflect on what role they are
playing, and we’re providing them a measure to do that. They may
decide that they are content with their current mission, but at
least they can examine this with new information.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Gordon Hall at Harvard Medical School in Boston. Photographer: Michael Fein/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Harvard Medical School in Boston. Photographer: Michael Fein/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
