-- Asian Currencies Advance, Led by Korean Won, on Global Recovery Optimism
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-06-14T04:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/asian-currencies-advance-led-by-korean-won-on-global-recovery-optimism.html

          
          
             Asian currencies strengthened, led
by South Korea’s won, on speculation international investors
will pour more money into regional assets as economic reports
shore up confidence in the global recovery.  
 The won rose the most in a week after policy makers said
they will give banks time to meet a new ceiling on forward
contracts, holding off from imposing controls on capital flows.
The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index  climbed after a survey
showed U.S. consumers are the most upbeat in more than two years.
Singapore will this week announce increases in retail sales and
exports, according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  
 “Investor sentiment is quite positive,” said  Akira Banno ,
a treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. in Kuala
Lumpur. “The data out of Asia, including Singapore, is expected
to be quite strong and that encourages some fund inflows to the
region, supporting the currencies.”  
 The won climbed 1.7 percent to 1,225.65 per dollar as of
12:52 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The ringgit appreciated 0.3 percent to 3.2660, earlier touching
this month’s high of 3.2550, and India’s rupee strengthened 0.6
percent to 46.57.  
 The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
used currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.3 percent, headed for
its best close since June 3. The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index  of
shares climbed 1.2 percent, a third straight gain.  
 Recovery Signs  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of U.S. consumer sentiment increased to 75.5, the highest
since January 2008, from 73.6 in May, according to a June 11
report. The gauge was projected to rise to 74.5, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 65 economists.  
 China last week reported a 48.5 percent jump in exports for
May, the most in six years and more than all 32 economists
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Singapore’s retail sales
increased 0.8 percent in April, after shrinking 2.4 percent in
the previous month, and the city-state’s non-oil domestic
exports rose 25.7 percent in May, separate surveys showed before
reports this week.  
 Lenders in South Korea will be required to rein in their
use of foreign-exchange forwards, options and swaps to reduce
volatility in capital flows and the won, according to a joint
statement made yesterday by the government and the central bank.
Existing positions can be covered over a maximum two years.  
 “We finally know what these rules are and that has cleared
the uncertainty,” said Jun Woo Ha, a Seoul-based currency
dealer at Daegu Bank. The won slumped 3.6 percent last week,
Asia’s biggest loss, as officials flagged a tightening of
currency regulations.  
 ‘Limited’ Impact  
 “We expect the impact of the package on bonds, swaps and
the Korean won to be limited,”  Goohoon Kwon , a Seoul-based
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a report
published yesterday. “Positions exceeding the limits, estimated
at $18.7 billion by authorities, are not large compared to the
daily turnover in the onshore markets and could be reduced
gradually over a two-year period.”  
 Korean authorities stressed yesterday the rules are not
aimed at setting a direction for the won, and they will take
action should the measures trigger herd behavior. The Kospi
share  index  rose 0.9 percent to 1,690.57, headed for its best
close in a month, as foreign investors today  added  to this
year’s $4.6 billion of net purchases.  
 Trade Pact  
 Taiwan’s dollar rose to its highest level in more than a
week on optimism the island will sign a trade pact with China
this month, helping spur exports to the world’s fastest-growing
major economy.  
 China and Taiwan held talks over the weekend to strengthen
economic and trade ties, reaching a basic agreement on
industries chosen for initial tariff cuts. Overseas funds bought
$179 million more of Taiwanese equities than they sold on June
11, a second day of net purchases, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 “It seems the trade deal is progressing as planned,” said
 Lucas Lee , an economist at Mega Securities Co. in Taipei. “At
this stage, it is helping attract overseas funds.”  
 The local dollar appreciated 0.5 percent to NT$32.279
against its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. It
earlier reached NT$32.228, the strongest level since June 4.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.2 percent to 9,183 per
dollar, the Singapore dollar advanced 0.3 percent to S$1.3984,
and the Thai baht rose 0.1 percent to 32.43. Financial markets
in China and the Philippines are shut today for public holidays.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        