-- Stocks, Commodities Rise as Yen Weakens on U.S. Sentiment
-- Will McSheehy
-- 2010-06-14T07:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/asian-stocks-commodities-rise-on-improving-economic-outlook-yen-weakens.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  climbed for a third day
and commodities gained after a report showed U.S. consumer
sentiment rose to its highest since January 2008. The yen
weakened on signs the global recovery is gaining momentum.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.4 percent to 113.97 as
of 4:10 p.m. in Tokyo, with seven times as many shares advancing
as declining. The Stoxx Europe 600 increased 0.9 percent to
251.76 at 8:10 a.m. in London. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.6 percent. Copper gained for a fifth day.
Markets in China and Australia are closed today for holidays.  
 “Investors have been concerned about a double-dip
recession in the U.S. later this year,” said  Tomochika Kitaoka ,
a senior strategist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The
report on consumer sentiment showed it is less likely to be the
case as the economy continues to recover.”  
 Americans are gaining confidence in the economy even as
Europe’s debt crisis roils investors, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of  consumer sentiment . The
benchmark increased to 75.5, beating the median forecast of 65
economists polled by Bloomberg News, from 73.6 in May. Euro zone
industrial output expanded 0.5 percent in April from March,
according to a separate economist survey before the European
Union publishes data today.  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  climbed 1.7 percent, the
biggest increase among equity benchmarks in Asia-Pacific,
followed by Taiwan’s Taiex Index, with a gain of 1.2 percent.  
 U.S. Sales  
 Sony Corp ., the electronics maker that gets 21 percent of
revenue from the U.S., climbed 1.6 percent in Tokyo. Posco,
Asia’s third-biggest steelmaker, advanced 2.6 percent after the
Seoul Economic Daily said the company plans to boost steel-
product prices next month. Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co., the world’s second-largest shipyard, advanced
2.1 percent after it received a $568 million order.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest
custom-chip maker, advanced 1 percent on expectations a trade
agreement with China will boost earnings.  
 Three-month copper on the London Metal Exchange added 1.7
percent to $6,589 a metric ton. Copper in London capped its best
week since April last week after government reports showed
China’s exports jumped 48.5 percent in May from a year ago,
surpassing all 32 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  
 Currency Forwards  
 The South Korean won strengthened the most in a week after
policy makers said they will give banks time to meet a new
ceiling on forward contracts, holding off from imposing controls
on capital flows.  
 The won climbed 1.9 percent to 1,223.05 per dollar, while
the Malaysian ringgit strengthened 0.6 percent to 3.2655.
Singapore may report higher retail sales and exports this week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  
 “The data out of Asia is quite strong, including Singapore
this week, and that encourages some fund inflows to the
region,” said  Akira Banno , a treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur.  
 Japan’s currency weakened to as low as 111.90 per euro in
Tokyo from 111 in New York on June 11 as demand for the currency
as a safe haven diminished. The yen was at 91.88 per dollar from
91.65. The euro climbed to as much as $1.2208, the highest level
since June 4.  
 Energy Demand  
 Crude oil advanced in New York for the fourth time in five
days, rising 1.2 percent to $74.67 a barrel, on speculation
sustained growth in the U.S. will boost fuel demand from the
world’s biggest energy consumer.  
 “Fundamentals are getting better and the euro is also
driving the crude market,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity
derivative sales manager at Newedge Group in Tokyo.  
 Treasuries extended last week’s decline on diminished
demand for the relative safety of government debt. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year note rose 3 basis points to 3.26 percent
in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data.  
 The cost of insuring Asian bonds with credit-default swaps
declined, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The
Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade borrowers
outside Japan fell 6.5 basis points to 139 basis points in
Singapore, RBS prices show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Will McSheehy  in Singapore at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 1.6 percent, the biggest increase among equity benchmarks in Asia-Pacific. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Beal, director of Pacific equities at Henderson Global Investors, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for Asian stocks.
     Speaking from Singapore, Beal also discusses global economies and stocks, and China's property market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- John Tang, a strategist at UBS AG, talks in Hong Kong with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for China stocks.
     Tang also discusses Foxconn Technology Group's wage increases. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
