-- Durbin Sees $39 Million in Savings for U.S. on Card Fees, Plans Hearing
-- Peter Eichenbaum
-- 2010-06-14T20:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/mastercard-ceo-selander-urges-durbin-to-reconsider-proposed-debit-fee-cap.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , the
Illinois Democrat pushing for limits on debit transaction
charges, said the government could save $39 million a year by
negotiating reduced “swipe” fees on payment cards.  
 Durbin said today he’s scheduled a June 16 hearing on how
much the processing fees for credit and debit cards, known as
interchange, cost taxpayers. Those fees are set by  Visa Inc.  and
 MasterCard Inc. , the world’s biggest payment networks, which
pass the money to card-issuing banks.  
 The networks and Durbin are at odds over the senator’s
proposal to cap interchange fees on debit cards. That could
crimp revenue at lenders including  Citigroup Inc. ,  Bank of
America Corp.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Federal agencies accepted
more than 80 million credit- and debit-card payments totaling
$8.6 billion in fiscal 2009, according to a Treasury Department
report distributed by Durbin.  
 “Fees associated with these transactions cost the federal
government over $116 million, making credit and debit cards
Treasury’s most expensive collection mechanism,” the
department’s Financial Management Service said in the report.
Savings to taxpayers could range from $36 million to $39
million, the report said.  
 The fees, which average about 1 percent for debit cards and
2 percent for credit, generate more than a $40 billion a year
for U.S. lenders from all cards. Debit-card interchange fees
generated more than $10 billion last year for the banks,
according to the National Retail Federation.  
 Letter From MasterCard  
 Earlier today, MasterCard delivered a letter to Durbin from
Chief Executive Officer  Robert W. Selander , who said consumers
would be hurt by the senator’s proposal to limit debit-card fees
as part of the regulatory overhaul bill.  
 “The decrease in merchant acceptance fees which would
result from your amendment would simply be borne by consumers --
and at a time when consumers are struggling from the steep
recession and trying to regain some degree of spending power,”
Selander, 59, said in the letter.  
 Selander was responding to a May 27 letter in which Durbin,
65, the majority whip, warned that Visa and MasterCard may spur
antitrust concerns if they “collude” with the largest banks to
block limits on debit-card interchange fees.  
 The June 16 hearing is set for 2:30 p.m. in Washington
before the Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and
General Government, headed by Durbin.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        