-- AT&T Apologizes to IPad 3G Users for Security Breach
-- Greg Bensinger
-- 2010-06-14T13:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/at-t-apologizes-to-ipad-3g-users-following-e-mail-service-security-breach.html

          
          
             AT&T Inc. apologized to  Apple Inc. 
iPad 3G tablet computer users whose e-mail addresses were
exposed during a security breach disclosed last week.  
 “No other information was exposed,”  Dorothy Attwood ,
AT&T’s chief privacy officer, said in an e-mail sent yesterday
to iPad accounts that may have been affected. “We apologize for
the incident and any inconvenience it may have caused.”  
 As many as 114,000 e-mail addresses were uncovered through
a program on AT&T’s website by  Goatse Security , Escher
Auernheimer, an analyst with the nine-person group, said on June
11, after the leak was made public earlier in the week.  
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation has begun an inquiry,
Lindsay Godwin, a bureau spokeswoman, said in a June 11
interview, declining to give more specifics. Goatse said it
obtained access to the e-mail addresses of New York Times Chief
Executive Officer  Janet Robinson  and New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , among others.  
 “The hackers deliberately went to great efforts with a
random program to extract” the information, Attwood said in the
e-mail. “They then put together a list of these emails and
distributed it for their own publicity.”  
 Goatse, which helps Web firms close security gaps, said in
 a blog posting  today that it uncovered the iPad flaw in about an
hour and publicized it in the interest of user safety.  
 “The potential for this sort of attack and the number of
iPad users on the list we saw who were stewards of major public
and commercial infrastructure necessitated our public
disclosure,” Auernheimer said in the blog post.  
 Cyber Threat Probe  
 Gawker Media, whose Valleywag  website  was the first to
report on the iPad breach after being sent the e-mail list, was
contacted by the FBI and asked to save documents related to its
report, said Editor-in-Chief Remy Stern in an interview. He said
he didn’t know the nature of the FBI’s investigation.  
 “The FBI is aware of these possible computer intrusions and
has opened an investigation to address the potential cyber
threat,” the FBI’s Godwin said June 11 in an e-mail. She didn’t
provide further details.  
 The addresses were released on condition that the website
not publish them, Auernheimer said. The FBI hasn’t contacted
anyone at Goatse Security, he said today in an e-mail.  
 AT&T , the second-largest U.S. mobile-phone provider,
corrected the flaw, the company said June 9 in an e-mailed
statement. The e-mail yesterday to affected iPad users was
provided by  Mark Siegel , a spokesman with AT&T.  
 Addresses Exposed  
 Valleywag said on its website on June 9 that about 114,000
e-mail addresses of iPad users, including members of the U.S.
military and executives at media, technology and finance
companies, were exposed.  
 Apple has sold more than 2 million iPads since releasing the
device in April. Some models of the iPad tablet work with AT&T’s
third-generation wireless network, and others only work on Wi-Fi
networks. Apple doesn’t say how many of each model it has sold.  
 AT&T fell 15 cents to $25.29 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading on June 11. The shares dropped 9.8 percent
this year, compared with a 2.1 percent decline in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average.  
 Michael Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Apple has sold more than 2 million iPads since releasing the device in April. Some models of the iPad tablet work with AT&T’s third-generation wireless network, and others only work on Wi-Fi networks. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Jeff Owens, an analyst for Goatse Security, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about his firm's investigation into an AT&T Inc. security flaw that exposed the e-mail addresses of some owners of Apple Inc.'s iPad 3G.
     AT&T, the second-largest U.S. mobile-phone provider, corrected the flaw, the company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Gigi Stone also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Case, chairman of Revolution LLC and co-founder of America Online Inc., talks about the need to focus on online privacy, Revolution's investment in Zipcar Inc. and the outlook for AOL Inc.
     Case talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
