-- Australian Dollar Weakens as Reserve Bank Paused to Gauge Europe Fallout
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-06-15T06:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/australian-new-zealand-dollars-near-month-highs-as-european-concerns-ebb.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar fell from the
highest since May as the central bank said Europe’s debt crisis
would “inevitably weigh” on global growth, fueling speculation
it may hold rates unchanged until at least the fourth quarter.  
 New Zealand’s currency weakened for the first day in four
as Asian commodity  stocks  slid after Greece’s credit rating was
cut to junk, raising concerns the world economy may falter. The
Aussie snapped a five-day gain as the Reserve Bank said previous
rate rises gave them flexibility to leave borrowing costs
unchanged at this month’s meeting to gauge the impact of
European events, as well as Australia’s inflation outlook.  
 “The bank will be on hold for at least another month or
two and the Aussie has taken a bit of a step back,” said  Derek Mumford , a Sydney-based senior consultant at HiFX, a foreign
exchange risk management firm. “We haven’t seen the last of the
risk aversion in the market.”  
 Australia’s currency declined to 85.28 U.S. cents as of
4:28 p.m. in Sydney from 85.87 cents in New York yesterday, when
it touched 86.67 cents, the most since May 18. The currency fell
to 77.78 yen from 78.64. New Zealand’s dollar dropped to 69.06
U.S. cents from 69.47 cents yesterday, when it touched 70.21,
its highest in almost a month. It slipped 1 percent to 62.96
yen.  
 The Aussie extended declines after Reserve Bank of
Australia Deputy Governor Ric Battellino said the situation in
Europe was “quite worrying,” according to the  transcript  of a
question-and-answer session during a gathering of financial
executives in Sydney today.  
 European ‘Uncertainty’  
 Europe’s large budget shortfalls are “pretty well
unprecedented,” and have in the past been “associated with
wars and they’ve usually ended up being sort of solved by
periods of inflation,” said Battellino. “So there’s a lot of
uncertainty as to how countries can deal with these issues.”  
 He also said efforts in China to slowdown its growth are
“welcome.”  
 Australia’s central bank boosted the benchmark lending rate
in May for the sixth time in seven meetings, the Group of 20’s
most aggressive round of interest-rate increases, before keeping
borrowing costs unchanged in June.  
 “These previous actions afforded policy the flexibility to
await information on how the recent market uncertainty might
affect the global economy, as well as news about the outlook for
inflation,” the RBA said today in minutes of the June meeting.
The statistics bureau will release second-quarter  inflation data 
on July 28.  
 “They’re waiting carefully for second-quarter CPI and that
implies that the pause will last at least until August,” said
 Stephen Roberts , a senior economist at Nomura Australia Ltd. in
Sydney. “My suspicion is it will last longer than August and it
will probably be later in the year before they return to raising
interest rates again.”  
 Yield Premium  
 Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and
2.75 percent in New Zealand, compared with 0.1 percent in  Japan 
and as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the
South Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such
trades is that currency market moves will erase profits.  
 Traders are betting there is a better than 70 percent
chance that the RBA will hold rates at 4.5 percent through to
the end of September, according to Bloomberg calculations based
on interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange.  
 Bonds Gain  
 Australian bond futures rose, with the 10-year contract for
June delivery at 94.64 on the Sydney Futures Exchange from 94.63
yesterday. The implied yield on the futures stood at 5.36
percent. The implied yield on three-year futures was 4.82
percent.  
 New Zealand’s dollar slipped from near a one-month high
after house prices fell in May for a second month as sales
slumped, adding to signs that rate increases may be gradual this
year.  
 Prices dropped 1.4 percent from April when they declined
0.4 percent, according to an index published by the Real Estate
Institute of New Zealand Inc. House sales retreated 17.2 percent
from a year earlier, the Auckland-based group said today.  
 New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates which is sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, fell to 4.29 percent from 4.31 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        