-- Avusa of South Africa Bids $121 Million For Universal Print, Hirt & Carter
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-14T17:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/avusa-of-south-africa-bids-121-million-for-universal-print-hirt-carter.html

          
          
             Avusa Ltd. , a South African media
company, agreed to buy Universal Print Group Ltd. and Hirt &
Carter Ltd. from UHC Communications Ltd. for 925 million rand
($121 million) to help it convert to digital broadcasting.  
 The stock-and-cash transaction also will help Avusa
“diversify revenue streams” and garner more black economic
empowerment points, the Johannesburg-based media company said
today in a statement. South African law requires local companies
to have a certain percentage of black ownership to make up for
discrimination during apartheid.  
 Avusa’s profit has suffered as print advertising revenue
fell during the global financial crisis. Earnings per share in
the year through March dropped as much as 55 percent,  the 
company said on June 11. Avusa owns two national daily papers
and South Africa’s bestselling Sunday paper, the Sunday Times,
as well as magazines and movie theaters.  
 Hirt & Carter is a producer and distributor of printed
material, according to its website, and Uniprint is a printing
company based in Durban, its website says. Avusa Chief Executive
Officer  Prakash Desai  didn’t immediately respond to a message
left on his office phone.  
 The transaction may be completed by July 21, according
to Avusa, which was advised by a division of  Nedbank Ltd. 
Privately held UHC has operations in retail, liquor,
manufacturing, finance, publishing and other businesses,
Avusa said.  
 In 2006, Avusa, then called Johnnic Communications Ltd.,
sold its holdings in pay-television channels M-Net and
Supersport for 3.2 billion rand.  
 Avusa rose 29 cents, or 1.6 percent, to 18.50 rand in
Johannesburg trading. The stock has gained 7.6 percent this
year, outpacing the FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index, which has
dropped 0.8 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        