-- Bank of England Bond Purchases Don't Damage its Independence, Posen Says
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-06-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/bank-of-england-bond-purchases-don-t-damage-its-independence-posen-says.html

          
          
             The Bank of England’s 200 billion-
pound ($295 billion) bond-purchase program hasn’t undermined the
bank’s independence and is consistent with its inflation-
targeting mandate, policy maker  Adam Posen  said.  
 “Whatever the appearance given by independent central
banks buying bonds, and how that appearance is hyped by some in
the markets and the press today, there will be no credibility
damage as long as it is the right thing to do economically,”
Posen said yesterday at an event in New York.  
 The Bank of England’s  bond buying  may jeopardize its
 inflation -targeting credibility because it blurs the divide
between fiscal and monetary policy, former Monetary Policy
Committee member  Timothy Besley  said in April. The European
Central Bank has also attracted criticism for its decision to
buy debt to quell the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis.  
 “In the case of the Bank of England’s program of
quantitative easing, it was undertaken on the initiative of the
MPC because it was consistent with our mandate to deliver price
stability,” Posen said. “Initiating the right kind of bond
purchases under the right circumstances is part of being a
responsible adult policy maker.”  
 The program has made the bank a creditor of the government
and allowed the U.K. Treasury an element of oversight over its
decisions, diminishing its independence, Besley and co-author
economist Kevin Sheedy wrote in a paper published on April 24.  
 Deflation Threat  
 “When the instrument nominal  interest rate  is already at
de facto zero bound, and the financial transmission mechanism is
damaged, buying bonds is the only means central banks have of
trying to deliver price stability against deflationary
pressures,” Posen said. “Some form of quantitative or credit
easing is the right thing to do.”  
 Far from damaging their standings, independent central
banks have strengthened their positions by buying debt
securities, Posen said.  
 “By acting responsibly to respond to the global financial
crisis, utilizing the tools available including large-scale bond
purchases, the major central banks will have enhanced their
credibility and independence for the future,” Posen said.  
 Posen spoke on a panel at the Barclays Capital Annual
Global Inflation-Linked Conference 2010 in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        