-- BASF, Pulawy Win Renewed EU Tax on Ukraine's Exports of Ammonium Nitrate
-- Jonathan Stearns
-- 2010-06-14T09:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/basf-pulawy-win-renewed-eu-tax-on-ukraine-s-exports-of-ammonium-nitrate.html

          
          
             The European Union renewed a tariff
on ammonium nitrate from Ukraine for a second time to help EU
producers including Germany’s  BASF SE  compete against cheaper
imports.  
 The EU re-imposed the duty of 33.25 euros ($40.68) a metric
ton for another two years over the objections of farmers, who
use the fertilizer. The bloc introduced the levy for five years
in 2001 and prolonged it for two years in 2007 to punish
Ukrainian exporters for selling ammonium nitrate in the EU below
cost, a practice known as dumping.  
 The share of the EU ammonium-nitrate market held by
Ukrainian manufacturers such as  JSC Concern Stirol  and OJSC
Rivneazot fell to 0.6 percent in 2008 from 1 percent in 2005,
according to the bloc. It said Ukrainian spare capacity poses a
threat that justifies longer trade protection.  
 “Ukrainian producers have the possibility to quickly
increase their current production and thus their exports,” the
27-nation EU said in a decision today in Luxembourg. The duty
also protects ammonium-nitrate manufacturers such as Poland’s
 Zaklady Azotowe Pulawy SA , France’s GPN SA, Fertiberia SA of
Spain and Yara International ASA, an Oslo-based producer with
operations in the EU.  
 The renewal is a victory for the  European Fertilizer
Manufacturers Association , which said when it requested longer
trade protection in January 2009 that letting the duty lapse
would probably lead to renewed dumping. The request led the EU
to open a probe that prevented the levy from expiring as
previously planned in April 2009 and that culminated in today’s
decision.  
 The renewal of the anti-dumping duty will take effect after
being published in the  Official Journal  in the coming days or
weeks. The decision, like the re-imposition in 2007, also covers
levies at different rates that the EU introduced in  2005  on
ammonium nitrate when it is incorporated into other fertilizers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Stearns  in Strasbourg, France, at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        