-- Bayer Sees Asia Demand Raising Polyurethane Volumes to Pre-Crisis Levels
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-06-14T10:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/bayer-sees-asia-demand-raising-polyurethane-volumes-to-pre-crisis-levels.html

          
          
             Bayer AG , the world’s biggest maker
of foam-like materials used in construction and upholstery,
expects to crank out plastics at volumes close to pre-crisis
levels as customers in Asia race to meet demand.  
 “I am optimistic we may this year already reach the volume
levels of 2008” for polyurethanes, said  Peter Vanacker , who
heads the Leverkusen, Germany-based company’s polyurethane
business, in an interview at the headquarters. Much of the
growth stems from China, he said on June 11.  
 “Five years from now, China will overtake the U.S. as the
largest market for polyurethanes,” said Vanacker.  
 The worst chemicals industry slump in 35 years drove
earnings at the  MaterialScience  division down 59 percent in
2009. The unit is aiming for sales growth of about 20 percent
and expects operating profit to double this year.  
 Alongside polyurethanes, of which Bayer controls more than
25 percent of the global market with an annual production
capacity of around 4 million metric tons, the German company
claims the top spot in polycarbonates. These are tough
lightweight plastics used to make products from bulletproof
windows to CDs. Production capacity is running about 90 percent,
said  Patrick Thomas , the head of Bayer MaterialScience AG.  
 In polyurethanes, Bayer competes with Germany’s BASF SE,
the world’s largest chemical maker, as well as and Dow Chemical
Co. and Huntsman Corp. Bayer’s  shares  have lost 15 percent this
year, making them the second-worst performer in the 18-member
Bloomberg Europe Chemicals Index, which has fallen 0.9 percent.  
 Tight Demand  
 Demand is so tight that one client in South-East Asia
recently offered to pay more for some polycarbonates in exchange
for supply guarantees, said Thomas. The 147-year-old company
also makes drugs and crop treatments.  
 Consumer appetite from Asia for portable electronic devices
such as netbooks and tablet computers, made with Bayer’s
materials, more than offsets a slowdown in Europe, said Thomas.
Demand for Apple Inc.’s iPad tablet is higher than estimated and
sales may reach 13 million units next year, Macquarie Group Ltd.
analyst  Phil Cusick  said on June 1.  
 Demand for Bayer’s plastics products fell 5 percent to 10
percent in European and U.S. markets in the first quarter
compared with the fourth quarter 2008, before the economic
crisis took hold, while Asian sales jumped 30 percent, said.
Thomas “The demand pattern has totally shifted toward Asia.”  
 “Global demand for polyurethane is growing at a rate of
about 5 percent a year,” said Vanacker. “In 2009, world demand
dropped at two percent or three percent, while this year we’ll
see growth of well above 5 percent.”  
 Bayer held its  budget  for research and development for its
MaterialScience business steady at 340 million euros ($417
million) from 2006 to 2009, while sales dropped to 7.5 billion
euros from 10.2 billion euros in that time.  
 Though the portion spent in China stands at 10 percent to
15 percent, this will “escalate in the future,” Thomas said.  
 Bayer is developing plastic foams for train tracks, allowing
trains to run at higher speeds with fewer vibrations and noise.
It is also developing a polyurethane roof to replace current
steel roofs “with a well-known carmaker” to save on weight,
said Vanacker, declining to disclose the customer’s name.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        