-- Bayer, Onyx's Nexavar Drug Failed to Prolong Lives of Lung-Cancer Patients
-- Michelle Fay Cortez
-- 2010-06-14T07:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/bayer-says-phase-3-study-with-nexavar-for-lung-cancer-missed-primary-goal.html

          
          
             Bayer AG  and  Onyx Pharmaceuticals
Inc.  said their cancer drug Nexavar failed to prolong life in
patients with lung tumors when used as an initial treatment.  
 Patients with advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung
cancer taking Nexavar and chemotherapy were less likely to see
their disease worsen in the study of about 900 patients, though
that benefit didn’t translate into longer lives, the companies
said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Nexavar, co-marketed by Onyx of Emeryville, California, and
Leverkusen, Germany-based  Bayer,  generated worldwide sales of
$844 million last year. It is approved for patients with
inoperable liver cancer and kidney cancer and is being tested in
breast and lung tumors. Bayer dropped as much as 2.4 percent in
Frankfurt trading. It fell 1.12 euros to 46.70 at 9:45 a.m.  
 “Bayer and Onyx are disappointed,” said Dimitris
Voliotis, vice president of global clinical development in
oncology at Bayer. “We are confident with our comprehensive
clinical trial program exploring Nexavar’s potential in a
variety of tumor types, including lung cancer.”  
 Lung cancer is the deadliest tumor type in the world,
killing 160,000 people in the U.S. and 342,000 in Europe
annually. More than 1.4 million people are diagnosed globally
with it each year.  
 The trial compared Nexavar to placebo in patients getting a
standard combination of the generic chemotherapy cisplatin and
 Eli Lilly & Co. ’s Gemzar.  
 Gene Testing  
 Previous studies of Nexavar for lung cancer yielded mixed
results. An arm of the newly released study involving patients
with squamous cell lung cancer was halted in 2008 after
participants experienced a higher-than-expected death rate. A
different trial presented at a medical meeting in April found
Nexavar prevented lung cancer from progressing in 61 percent of
patients with mutations to a gene called KRAS.  
 The research, presented in April at the meeting of the
American Association for Cancer Research in Washington, was
designed to show how gene testing of tumors can improve
treatment when drugs are matched with biomarkers that predict
their success. Nexavar showed the highest disease control of the
four drugs used in the lung cancer study.  
 The companies said they are evaluating the data and
additional studies still under way. They plan to present the
results at a future medical meeting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in London at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        