-- Japan's Notes Rise for Second Day as Greek Downgrade Boosts Safety Demand
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-06-15T01:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/benchmark-bonds-may-rise-as-greece-downgrade-boosts-demand-for-yen-debt.html

          
          
             Japan’s five-year  notes  rose for a
second day after Moody’s Investors Service cut Greece’s credit
rating, spurring demand for the relative safety of the Asian
nation’s debt.  
 Five-year yields fell from near the highest this month
after Moody’s yesterday cut Greece’s ranking four steps to junk,
citing “substantial” risks to economic growth due to financial
austerity measures. The Bank of Japan will hold its key interest
rate at 0.1 percent at the end of a two-day policy meeting today,
according to all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “Markets remain sensitive to developments in Europe as
there’s no consensus yet about how austerity measures will
affect nations in the region and their economies,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.
“The unclear outlook continues to prompt investors to seek
safer assets, keeping a lid on Japan’s bond yields.”  
 The yield on the 0.4 percent note due June 2015 fell one
basis point to 0.405 percent as of 10:51 a.m. in Tokyo at Japan
Bond Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker.
The price rose 0.049 yen to 99.975 yen. Five-year yields climbed
to 0.425 yesterday, matching the highest since May 31.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery gained 0.09 to
140.45 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Ten-year yields were
unchanged at 1.23 percent.  
 Ten-year yields may fall to 1.20 percent by the end of
September, RBS’s Nishioka said. Should her forecast prove
accurate, investors who buy the securities today would make a
0.6 percent return.  
 Bank of Japan  
 Moody’s said its lower rating for Greece “incorporates a
greater, albeit, low risk of default.” The Greek government
agreed to cut spending, raise taxes and trim wages to qualify
for a 110 billion-euro ($134 billion) aid package from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund.  
 The gain in Japanese notes was tempered before reports that
economists said will show the global recovery remains on track.  
 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index rose to 20 in June from 19.1 the previous month, according
to a Bloomberg survey before today’s report. Japan’s tertiary
industry index advanced 2.5 percent in April, according to
another Bloomberg survey before the data is released tomorrow.  
 “Risk-on sentiment is still intact and bonds can be sold
anytime,” said  Tadashi Matsukawa , a manager of the fixed-income
division at PineBridge Investments Japan Co., which manages the
equivalent of $69 billion. “Ten-year yields around 1.20 percent
are too low and not attractive to investors.”  
 The Ministry of Finance will sell 1.1 trillion yen ($12
billion) of 20-year bonds tomorrow. Primary dealers, which are
required to bid at government debt sales, often reduce debt
holdings before auctions in case prices decline before they can
pass on the new securities to investors.  
 Twenty-year yields rose half a basis point to 1.97 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        