-- Indian Billionaire Maran Acquires Wilbur Ross's Stake in Carrier SpiceJet
-- Subramaniam Sharma
-- 2010-06-14T11:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/billionaire-maran-to-acquire-spicejet-s-shares-from-founders-wilbur-ross.html

          
          
             Indian billionaire  Kalanithi Maran 
bought a 7.39 billion rupees ($159 million) stake in discount
carrier  SpiceJet Ltd.  from investors including  Wilbur Ross  as
travel demand surges in the world’s second-most populous nation.  
 Maran and Kal Airways Pvt. bought 38 percent of the New
Delhi-based airline and made an open offer to buy a further 20
percent at 57.76 rupees a share, adviser Enam Securities Ltd.
said in a newspaper advertisement today. The open-offer price is
3 percent higher than the June 11 close in Mumbai.  
 Sun TV Network Ltd.  founder Maran bought a stake in the
only listed Indian carrier to make an annual profit last fiscal
year as rising wages enable more people in India to travel by
plane instead of rail. The new owner may also help SpiceJet with
its plans to add aircraft, said  Sharan Lillaney , an analyst at
Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai.  
 “The airline can take a step forward with its expansion
plans as they have a powerful investor,” said Lillaney, who has
an “accumulate” rating on SpiceJet. “Going forward, passenger
demand is expected to increase and SpiceJet will benefit the
most as it has the capacity to service this increase.”  
 Maran and Kal purchased 156.5 million shares of SpiceJet at
47.25 rupees each, a discount of 16 percent from the June 11
closing price, according to the advertisement. The offer to buy
the additional shares, which was triggered by Indian takeover
rules, will close on Aug. 25, according to the advertisement.  
 SpiceJet  fell 1.6 percent to 55.15 rupees at the close
after earlier gaining as much as 6.2 percent.  
 Takeover Rules  
 The carrier, which started operations in May 2005 and
counts Goldman Sachs Group Inc. amongst its investors, has a
fleet of 20 Boeing Co. 737 aircraft, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. The  airline  flies to 19 cities in India and
operates 137 flights daily.  
 SpiceJet plans to add five aircraft this year and it is in
the process of starting overseas services after winning
government approval to fly to neighboring countries, the carrier
said, without providing details.  
 Domestic airlines carried 22 percent more passengers in the
four months ended April from a year earlier, according to the
ministry of civil aviation.  
 SpiceJet  posted a profit of 614.5 million rupees in the
year ended March 31, 2010, compared with a loss of 3.5 billion
rupees in the previous fiscal year. Jet Airways (India) Ltd. and
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd., the nation’s two other publicly traded
airlines, both posted losses last fiscal year.  
 SpiceJet has “a uniform fleet and they run a tight and
efficient ship,” said Rajesh Samson, a partner for transaction
advisory services at Ernst & Young, which is the mergers and
acquisition adviser to Maran on the transaction. “They are in a
good position to maintain profitability.”  
 Maran, who has a net worth of $2.9 billion, according to
Forbes’s website, wasn’t available when called at his office in
Chennai, India by Bloomberg News. Maran owns 77 percent of  Sun
TV Network , which operates 20 television networks and 45 FM
radio stations, according to the company’s  website .  
 Sanjay Aggarwal , SpiceJet’s chief executive officer, didn’t
answer a call to his mobile phone.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Subramaniam Sharma  in New Delhi at 
 ssharma@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        