-- BNP Fund Unit Favors Sovereign Islamic Bonds From Middle East on Ratings
-- Dana El Baltaji
-- 2010-06-14T07:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/bnp-fund-unit-favors-sovereign-islamic-bonds-from-middle-east-on-ratings.html

          
          
             Islamic bonds from Middle Eastern
governments including the United Arab Emirates are attractive
because of wealth created from oil,  BNP Paribas Investment
Partners  said.  
 “Our preferences are for sovereign and quasi-sovereign
credit,”  Rafael Martinez Dalmau , director of emerging markets
and Islamic investments at BNP Paribas Investment, the asset
management unit of BNP Paribas SA, said in a telephone interview
in Singapore. “We feel that those are two sectors that we like
in terms of credit worthiness.”  
 The  average spread, or extra yield,  on Gulf Arab government
and corporate sukuk above the London interbank offered rate
narrowed 15 basis points this year to 530 basis points, or 5.3
percentage points, according to  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC U.S.
Dollar Sukuk Index . The spread reached 575 basis points on
November 26 after Dubai World said it would seek to delay
repaying loans.  
 The six Gulf Cooperation Council countries, including the
U.A.E., Qatar and Saudi Arabia, hold about 40 percent of the
world’s proven oil reserves. The region’s governments are
spending billions to diversify their economies away from oil.  
 Gulf Economies  
 Dubai Electricity & Water Authority sold $1 billion bonds
in April at 8.5 percent, becoming Dubai’s first government-owned
entity to tap credit markets since the debt crisis.  Saudi
Electricity Co ., the state-controlled power producer, raised 7
billion riyals ($1.9 billion) issuing sukuk in May. The U.A.E.
has a long-term rating of Aa2 at Moody’s Investors Service, the
third highest investment grade, and Saudi Arabia is rated one
level lower at Aa3.  
 BNP Paribas Investment will consider allocating funds to
Islamic bonds sold by the U.A.E. government because “the
economics and fundamentals are definitely warranted an
allocation,” Dalmau said. The Gulf state holds 7.3 percent of
the world’s proven oil reserves, most of which is located in the
emirate of Abu Dhabi. Dalmau declined to provide details on
bonds owned by BNP Paribas Investment.  
 The asset management division had 530 billion euros ($646
billion) under management as of Dec. 31, 2009, according to data
on the company’s website. About 2 percent of those funds were
invested in the Middle East and Africa. Islamic bonds are asset-
based securities that pay a profit rate to investors to comply
with Shariah law’s prohibition on interest payments.  
 Record Sales  
 Gulf issuers raised $2.3 billion so far this year, about 19
percent less than the amount they borrowed during the same
period of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
from the region reached a record $18.2 billion in 2007.  
 The Dubai government and its state-owned companies have
racked up $109.3 billion of debt and about $15.5 billion of that
is due this year, according to International Monetary Fund
estimates. The emirate had to borrow $20 billion from Abu Dhabi
to help state-owned companies pay debt.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        