-- Bordeaux 2009 Futures Sell 700 Cases an Hour, Freeze Computer
-- Elin McCoy
-- 2010-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/bordeaux-2009-futures-sell-700-cases-an-hour-freeze-computer.html

          
          
             When offers of 2009  Chateau
Cantemerle  futures hit his inbox, Chris Adams, president of New
York retailer  Sherry-Lehmann Wine & Spirits , didn’t hesitate to
snap up 50 cases.  
 The 2009 vintage is another great one in Bordeaux, and
futures buying heated up last week as more chateaux released
prices for their still-in-the-barrel wines.  
 “We’ve already sold out of  La Fleur-Petrus  at $135 a
bottle,” said Adams.  
 Ditto chateaux d’Angludet at $30 and Duhart-Milon
Rothschild at $60, now selling elsewhere for $80-plus. I rated
all three highly at the April en primeur tastings in Bordeaux.  
 But the biggest names are holding back, leading to
speculation that prices will be the highest ever. So far, most
labels are 5 percent to 70 percent more expensive than the
sticker-shock futures of the fabulous 2005s. Some, like Pagodes
de Cos, are definitely overpriced.  
 Worries about promised austerity cuts and European economic
woes haven’t slowed U.K. buyers. London merchant  Berry Bros &
Rudd  received nine times more wish lists than for the 2005s,
said sales director Simon Staples in a phone interview. Incoming
orders for Chateau du Tertre at 264 pounds ($384) a case brought
its computer system to a halt for 10 minutes.  
 “We sold out 700 cases in an hour,” said Staples. “And
3,500 of Chateau Batailley (also 264 pounds) went in four
days.” At around $40 a bottle in the U.S., the rich, soft
Batailley is one of this year’s good values, though you can buy
the 2005 for nearly the same price and drink it tonight.  
 U.S. ‘Lukewarm’  
 U.S. enthusiasm for the 2009s is more lukewarm than for the
2005s, said Ralph Sands, Bordeaux specialist at the Bay Area’s K
& L Wines.  
 “Venture capitalists will buy first growths like Latour no
matter what, but this year most wish lists have price
ceilings,” he said. “We’re selling more $20 bargains than ever
before.”  
 And then there’s Asia, where many are getting into futures
for the first time. Chateau owners at the VinExpo trade fair in
Hong Kong late last month fanned the flames as hard as they
could, according to David Milligan, president of negociant
Joanne USA.  
 To woo customers, Hong Kong outposts of London merchants
translated their tasting notes into Chinese.  
 Gary Boom, managing director of merchant Bordeaux Index,
said he expects Asian orders to be a quarter to a third of the
company’s $20 million to $30 million futures’ sales.  
 “Asian demand is only shaping the prices of the first
growths and their second labels,” said Boom. “If the U.K.
doesn’t buy because they’re too high, Asia won’t provide a
bailout.”  
 Nick Pegna of Berry Bros. agrees. “China is all about
brands. There won’t be enough 2009 first and 2nd growths to go
around,” he said. But will the Chinese buy if they can have
past vintages for less?  
 Cause for Celebration?  
 Even if 2009 is another “vintage of the century,” should
you put your money down now?  
 The rationale is that you’ll pay the lowest possible price
and celebrate when bottles costing much more arrive in 2012.
Alas, that appreciation scenario isn’t guaranteed. In a study
noted in its April Market Report, U.K. electronic-trading
platform  Liv-ex  compared the initial release prices for 81
chateaux from vintages 2000 to 2007, with what bottles sold for
three years later.  
 In great vintage 2005, 30 increased less than 15 percent or
actually declined. Only first growths and a few others increased
dramatically. Carraudes de Lafite,  Chateau Lafite ’s second label
wildly prized by the Chinese, for example, went up a whopping
196 percent. The website of London broker  Farr Vintners  lists
the current price of the 2005 next to each 2009 offer.  
 Currency Risk  
 Then there’s the currency risk. On June 10, the euro was
trading at $1.20, but further drops could wipe out the reasons
for buying in advance.  
 The biggest risk is whether a merchant will deliver in two
years’ time. Great vintages always spawn unscrupulous sellers
who simply take the money and run, and in a tough economy,
undercapitalized merchants may also go out of business. So if
you decide to play, buy from merchants with a futures track
record such as Sherry-Lehmann, K & L, Bordeaux Index, Farr
Vintners or Berry Bros.  
 My quality-for-price picks of chateaux that have released
prices are based on my April tastings in Bordeaux. At $25 and
under: rich La Tour de By, savory Lalande-Borie and delicious
Blason d’Issan, second wine of Chateau d’Issan. At $25 to $35:
Ormes de Pez, juicy, balanced d’Angludet and exotic Tronquoy-
Lalande. At $35 to $45, Batailley, and luscious sweet wines
Doisy-Daene and Doisy-Vedrines.  
 Chateau d’Issan  
 Expect more offers this week. I’ll be checking the cost of
usually well-priced  Chateau Lagrange , exceptionally harmonious
this year, and very pure, fragrant Chateau d’Issan. If prices
aren’t stratospheric, I’d be happy to drink complex,
sophisticated Belair-Monange or intense, seamless Figeac, plus a
half-dozen more.  
 Will the famous first growths reveal all before Bordeaux’s
Fete du Vin June 24-27? They like to play one-upmanship by vying
to be the last out, so maybe not. They’ll be above my paygrade
for sure.  
 Don’t faint if some start at $1,000 bottle.  
 (Elin McCoy writes on wine and spirits for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of the story:
 Elin McCoy  at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Barrel samples of Chateau Lafite-Rothschild, Carraudes de Lafite and Chateau Duhart-Milon Rothschild were tasted at the annual en primeur tastings at Chateau Duhart-Milon in Bordeaux, France.  Release price for Duhart-Milon began at $65 and is now at $80 and up; prices of Lafite and Carraudes de Lafite have not been released yet, but merchants worry that the price for Lafite could be $1,000 a bottle. Photographer: Elin McCoy/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Eric d'Aramon  
                       
                         
                           Elin McCoy/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Eric d'Aramon of Chateau Figeac discusses his 2009 wine at Chateau Latour-Martillac in Bordeaux, France. Figeac, a St-Emilion Premiers Grands Crus Classes `B',  was one of the best wines of the vintage in the appellation. It has not yet released its prices, but may be one of the more affordable top wines for 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Eric d'Aramon of Chateau Figeac discusses his 2009 wine at Chateau Latour-Martillac in Bordeaux, France. Figeac, a St-Emilion Premiers Grands Crus Classes `B',  was one of the best wines of the vintage in the appellation. It has not yet released its prices, but may be one of the more affordable top wines for 2009. Photographer: Elin McCoy/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Christian Moueix  
                       
                         
                           Elin McCoy/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Christian Moueix discusses the 2009 vintage at the offices of JP Moueix during the week of en primeur barrel tastings in Libourne, France. Among his wines many successes was the silky La Fleur Petrus, which quickly sold out as futures on its release in early June at $135 a bottle. Still to be priced are his stunning Chateau Belair-Monange and Chateau Trotanoy, one of the top 20 wines of the vintage. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Christian Moueix discusses the 2009 vintage at the offices of JP Moueix during the week of en primeur barrel tastings in Libourne, France. Among his wines many successes was the silky La Fleur Petrus, which quickly sold out as futures on its release in early June at $135 a bottle. Still to be priced are his stunning Chateau Belair-Monange and Chateau Trotanoy, one of the top 20 wines of the vintage. Photographer: Elin McCoy/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
