-- Celtics Withstand Bryant Barrage to Move Within One Win of 18th NBA Title
-- Dex McLuskey
-- 2010-06-14T04:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/boston-celtics-beat-los-angeles-lakers-92-86-take-3-2-lead-in-nba-finals.html

          
          
             Paul Pierce  had his best tally of
the National Basketball Association Finals as the Boston Celtics
withstood a 19-point third-quarter barrage by  Kobe Bryant  to
move within one win of a record-extending 18th national title.  
 Pierce scored 27 points in the Celtics’ 92-86 win over the
Los Angeles Lakers at TD Garden in Boston to give the home team
a three-games-to-two lead in the best-of-seven series.  
 The Celtics have won all 11 NBA Finals that they’ve led 3-2.
The Lakers are trailing for the first time in the 2010 playoffs,
leaving coach  Phil Jackson  in jeopardy of losing his first
playoff series in 48 after his team has won the opening game.
The series moves back to Los Angeles for Game 6 tomorrow, with a
decisive seventh meeting, if necessary, on June 17.  
 “We’ve got two games in L.A., we just gotta get one,”
Pierce said in a news conference. “We’re too close to our
goal.”  
 The Celtics beat the Lakers in six games two years ago to
capture a record 17th NBA title. The Lakers, the defending
champion, are seeking their 16th title. It’s the 12th time the
teams have met in the Finals.  
 On the 25 previous occasions the Finals have been tied at
2-2, the team that prevailed in the fifth game has won the title
19 times.  
 “The Lakers played the best between us to get home-court
advantage,” Celtics coach  Doc Rivers  said in a news conference.
“But we played the best all year on the road, so our team will
be ready. It’s going to be a hell of a challenge for us because
they’re going to be great and we’re going to have to beat them
at their best.”  
 Boston Leads  
 The Celtics led by two points after the first quarter last
night. They extended the advantage to six points at halftime and
led by a game-high 13 points with 2:34 to play in the third
before starting the final quarter with an eight-point lead.  
 Bryant scored the Lakers’ first 19 points in the third
quarter -- half his total for the game -- before  Pau Gasol  added
three points and  Sasha Vujacic  made a 22-foot jumper for the
team’s only other scores in the quarter.  
 “He’s the kind of guy you ride a hot hand,” Jackson said
of Bryant. “We were waiting for him to do that. He came in at
halftime and got his ankle retaped again and went out there and
found a rhythm.”  
 Even with Bryant’s onslaught, Boston outscored Los Angeles
28-26 in the third quarter.  
 Hall of Famer  Isiah Thomas  holds the single-quarter scoring
record in the NBA Finals. Thomas had 25 points for the Detroit
Pistons in a 1988 Game 6 loss to the Lakers, who went on to win
the title.  
 Shooting Accuracy  
 The Celtics made 65 percent of their field-goal attempts in
the first three quarters and 56 percent of their shots in the
game, compared with 40 percent for the Lakers.  
 “I told the players before the game ‘this team’s going to
shoot well one of these games, they haven’t shot well yet on
their home court,’” Jackson said. “You just have to hang with
them.”  
 Bryant made three free throws to make it 87-82 with 90
seconds of the game remaining, Boston’s narrowest lead of the
second half.  Ron Artest  then missed twice from the free-throw
line for the Lakers before  Rajon Rondo  made it 89-82 with 35
seconds to play.  
 Lamar Odom  cut the deficit to five points with 28 seconds
left before  Ray Allen  and  Kevin Garnett  completed the scoring
from the free-throw line.  
 Garnett had 18 points and 10 rebounds, and Rondo
contributed 18 points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Rajon Rondo #9 of the Boston Celtics calls out a play in Game Five of the 2010 NBA Finals on June 13, 2010. Photographer: Garrett Ellwood/NBAE via Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
