-- BP Cost-Cutting Added Risks at `Nightmare' Well, Lawmakers Say
-- Jeff Plungis
-- 2010-06-14T23:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/bp-made-decisions-that-raised-risk-at-gulf-of-mexico-well-lawmakers-say.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer Tony
Hayward is being pressed about cost-cutting that House Democrats
said added to the danger of an explosion at the company’s Gulf
of Mexico oil well.  
 “Time after time, it appears that BP made decisions that
increased the risk of a blowout to save the company time or
expense,”  U.S. Representatives  Henry Waxman  of California and
 Bart Stupak  of Michigan said in a letter yesterday to Hayward .
“If this is what happened, BP’s carelessness and complacency
have inflicted a heavy toll on the Gulf, its inhabitants, and
the workers on the rig.”  
 Hayward’s appearance before a  House Energy Committee  panel
on June 17 will be his first since the well exploded, setting
off the worst U.S. oil spill. The letter from committee chairman
Waxman and subcommittee head Stupak listed a series of
“shortcuts to speed finishing” the work, quoted a BP engineer
calling it a “nightmare well” and asked Hayward to respond in
his testimony.  
 The 14-page letter lays out the mistakes BP made in a way
that is both understandable and damning, said  David Pursell , a
managing director at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. LLC, a Houston
investment bank.  
 “There’s no question what BP did wasn’t best practices,”
Pursell said. “This letter confirms what we have thought. This
is on BP.”  
 The lawmakers described five “questionable decisions” by
BP before the April 20 explosion, including the use of a less
robust well design, failure to anchor the well’s casing using a
process recommended under industry practices and cutting short
procedures to ensure cementing was sound. The decision on
testing the cement was called “horribly negligent” by an
expert the committee consulted, according to the letter.  
 BP Scrutiny  
 “Tony Hayward is appearing before the committee on
Thursday,” BP spokesman  David Nicholas  said. “It would be
inappropriate to comment on these matters in advance.”  
 BP is under growing scrutiny in Washington, with executives
summoned to Congress and the White House. President  Barack Obama 
plans to speak from the Oval Office on the spill tonight, after
a two-day tour of the Gulf Coast, and BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  has been called to the White House tomorrow.  
 The government is demanding that BP set up an escrow
account for damage claims related to the spill. Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, called yesterday for a $20
billion fund to be overseen by an independent trustee.  
 The company’s shares fell 9.3 percent yesterday to 355.45
pence in London, the lowest closing price in 13 years. The stock
is down 46 percent since the explosion that killed 11 workers.  
 Transocean, Halliburton  
 Guy Cantwell , a spokesman for  Transocean Ltd. , which leased
the Deepwater Horizon rig to BP, declined to comment on the
letter, as did Teresa Wong, a spokeswoman for  Halliburton Co. ,
which provided cementing services.  
 Lawyers for plaintiffs may be able to use the panel’s
letter, along with congressional findings and hearings, to
develop their cases against BP, said  Jere Beasley , a Montgomery,
Alabama, lawyer who has filed multiple lawsuits over the spill.
The findings may be used to seek documents and question company
executives, he said.  
 “Apparently they’ll tell more to Congress under oath than
to a court reporter,” Beasley said of Hayward. “The same
questions would be asked of him again” in a civil lawsuit.  
 Lamar McKay , president of BP America Inc., will join
executives from  Exxon Mobil Corp. , Chevron Corp.,  ConocoPhillips 
and Royal Dutch Shell Plc at a separate hearing of a House
Energy panel today.  
 43 Days Overdue  
 The letter from Waxman and Stupak included 11 pages
reconstructing the events related to the drilling that focused
on five decisions the lawmakers said violated industry
guidelines or were made over objections from BP personnel. The
committee’s account was based on company e-mails, government
documents and committee interviews.  
 BP executives in the “days and hours” before the
explosion were under pressure to finish drilling because the
Deepwater Horizon rig leased from  Transocean  was 43 days late
for its next job, a delay that had already cost the company as
much as $21 million in leasing fees, the lawmakers said.  
 An e-mail message from BP drilling engineer Brian Morel to
colleague Richard Miller six days before the explosion called
the project a “nightmare well which has everyone all over the
place,” according to the lawmakers’ letter.  
 The lawmakers faulted BP’s design of the well, the process
used to prepare the hole to be capped, the decision to skip
testing the integrity of the cement sealer, the use of mud to
clear gas from the well and elimination of a final step to seal
the well. The following are the five issues cited by Waxman and
Stupak:  
 Well Design  
 Five days before the blast, BP concluded the method to
secure the final 1,200 feet of well, called a liner/tieback, was
too time-consuming and expensive, the lawmakers said. Using an
alternative called a long-string casing would save at least
three days and about $7 million to $10 million.  
 A liner/tieback approach provided multiple barriers to
block the flow of gas that could trigger an explosion. The
single steel liner had two places to seal the well: at the
cement on the bottom of the sea and at the wellhead.  
 “BP was aware of the risks of the single casing
approach,” the lawmakers said.  
 Centering the Casing  
 Standard industry practice is to center the well casing to
reduce the risk that channels will form in cement, letting gas
flow up the well, according to the letter. BP told Halliburton
on April 15 it would use six devices called centralizers on the
well, while Halliburton’s modeling showed 21 were needed, the
lawmakers said.  
 When an objection was raised, BP’s Morel wrote back that it
was too late to get more equipment to the rig: “It’s a vertical
hole, so hopefully the pipe stays centralized,” he said.  
 When 15 units were found in Houston, BP’s well team leader
Gregory Walz objected. “It will take 10 hours to install
them,” Walz said, according to the letter. “I do not like
this.”  
 Halliburton account representative Jesse Gagliano ran a
computer model using seven centralizers. His April 18 report on
the cementing design said the “well is considered to have a
severe gas-flow problem,” according to the letter.  
 Cement Bond  
 The decision to skip the so-called cement bond log, a test
to assess the integrity of the seal, “may have been driven by
concerns about expense and time,” the lawmakers said.
Conducting the test using a team from  Schlumberger Ltd.  would
have cost $128,000, while canceling the work was about $10,000,
the lawmakers said.  
 The committee contacted Gordon Aaker, a failure analysis
consultant with Engineering Services LLP in Houston, who said it
was “unheard of” not to conduct the test and called BP’s
decision “horribly negligent.”  
 Mud Circulation  
 The American Petroleum Institute recommends use of weighted
mud to fill a well during the drilling process before cementing,
the lawmakers said. The process, which can take as long as 12
hours, lets workers test for gas influxes and eliminate debris.  
 “BP decided to forego this safety step,” Waxman and
Stupak said.  
 Lockdown Sleeve  
 BP opted against placing a final piece of equipment to hold
the well’s casing in place, called a lockdown sleeve, the
lawmakers said. The device prevents the casing from floating
above the head of the well and letting gases build up.  
 Both Transocean and Halliburton officials have told
committee staff this was a key procedural mistake, the lawmakers
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Plungis  in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     BP Plc CEO Tony Hayward surveys oil recovery operations aboard the Discover Enterprise drill ship in the Gulf of Mexico. Photographer: Sean Gardner/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- John Nevius, an attorney at Anderson Kill & Olick PC, talks about calls from U.S. lawmakers for BP Plc to set up an escrow account for damage claims related to its oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and to suspend its dividend.      
     He talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." Bloomberg's James Polson also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
