-- Brazil's Dunga Says He's Happy for His Team to Play Ugly to Win World Cup
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-15T11:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/brazil-s-coach-dunga-says-he-s-happy-to-play-ugly-to-win-soccer-world-cup.html

          
          
             Brazil opens its soccer World Cup
campaign against North Korea today with coach  Carlos Dunga 
unconcerned about whether the team plays ugly to win a record-
extending sixth title.  
 Dunga criticized journalists and commentators who’ve
accused him of betraying Brazil’s famed Jogo Bonito, or
beautiful play, since he became coach four years ago.  
 “Everybody has their own taste and preferences,” Dunga,
captain of the 1994 championship-winning team, said in a pre-
match press conference at Ellis Park in Johannesburg. “I really
like winning, that’s all. It doesn’t matter whether someone
likes you or not, what counts is what happens on the field.”  
 Dunga played in three World Cups as a player. He said that
experience doesn’t make it easier to cope with nerves.  
 “I always feel butterflies in my stomach when I’m on field
and my team goes out to play,” he said. “As coach, without a
doubt, the pressure is tremendous. But at the same time when we
are successful the joy we feel is double.”  
 Brazil has won the World Cup on every continent it’s been
played previously. The last victory for the Selecao, as the team
is known, came in 2002 in South Korea and Japan.  
 Dunga, 46, told reporters there were “no positives” from
the negative comments he has received in recent months.  
 “I believe in freedom of expression but there should be
certain limits of respect,” he said.  
 Japan and South Korea have already won in the tournament
and Dunga said North Korea, playing in the World Cup for the
first time since 1966, will be a tough opponent.  
 “They are no longer the weaker teams these days,” he said.
“Eleven versus 11, whoever plays better will win. Football
doesn’t lie.”  
 North Korea is the competition’s lowest-ranked team in
FIFA’s list,  104 places  below No. 1 Brazil. Portugal and Ivory
Coast are the other nations in Group G.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Ellis Park via the London newsroom at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        