-- Bullard Says Europe's Deficit Crisis Shouldn't Postpone Fed Rate Increase
-- Steve Matthews
-- 2010-06-14T09:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/bullard-says-europe-s-fiscal-crisis-shouldn-t-postpone-fed-rate-increase.html

          
          
             Europe’s debt crisis shouldn’t
postpone an increase in the Federal Reserve’s benchmark
 interest rate , a regional Fed president said, differing from at
least two of his colleagues.  
 “Unless events in Europe turn out to be much worse, I
think that in the near term, the U.S. is probably a beneficiary
of the crisis in Europe” because of lower Treasury yields and
cheaper commodities, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said
at a press briefing in Tokyo today. “I don’t think it should
push back” the date for the Fed to begin tightening, he said.  
 Bullard’s comments are a contrast with Chicago Fed
President Charles Evans and Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart , who have in recent weeks said the European turmoil
may slow any U.S. withdrawal of interest-rate stimulus. At the
same time, Bullard said “now is not the time” to normalize
the premium of the discount  rate , the Fed’s charge for direct
loans to banks, over the overnight lending rate target.  
 U.S. central bank officials are debating how quickly to
remove record stimulus as the economy recovers from the worst
recession since the 1930s. They committed in April to keep the
key rate near zero percent for an “extended period,” and plan
to meet again on June 22-23.  
 Bullard said later in a speech that the U.S. recovery is
“on track” and downplayed the possibility of the European
crisis or surging growth in China derailing the global rebound.  
 More Worry Than Reality  
 Gyrations in financial markets “reflect more worry than
reality about the prospects for a slowdown in global growth,”
he said. “China has in the past year simply returned to its
rapid growth path and is likely to remain on that path for a
considerable period of time.”  
 The U.S. economy strengthened in all 12 of the Federal
Reserve’s regions in April and May for the first time in more
than two years, while growth in many districts was “modest,”
the central bank said last week. Growth was slower than the Fed
wanted, held back by housing and commercial real estate markets,
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on June 9.  
 When asked about the timing of a Fed funds rate increase,
Bullard, 49, said the U.S. recovery would “have to be firmer
than it is right now and we’ll have to see more improvement,
but I do expect the economy in the U.S. to continue to improve
going forward.”  
 Surpass Peak  
 Real gross domestic product next quarter is likely to
surpass the previous peak reached in the second quarter of 2008,
making the recovery “complete,” Bullard said in the speech.  
 The U.S. central bank implemented a series of interest-
rate cuts during the financial crisis before expanding its
balance sheet by more than $1 trillion to stimulate the economy.  
 The Fed should start selling its holdings of mortgage-
backed securities before raising the benchmark rate, said
Bullard, who is a voting member of the rate-setting Federal
Open Market Committee this year.  
 “I’ve been an advocate of taking back some of the
quantitative easing first and then thinking about raising
interest rates later,” he said at the briefing.  
 Evans told reporters in Seoul on May 31 that he “wouldn’t
be surprised” if the Fed’s policy of keeping rates low “gets
extended just a little bit.” Lockhart said days later “the
pressures in Europe may slow the movement toward any removal of
accommodation.”  
 Bullard said that while policy makers are keeping a “very
close watch” on developments in Europe, he doesn’t foresee
contagion to the U.S. or Asia. Still, the situation merits
postponing further increases to the discount rate, he said.  
 Discount Rate  
 The Fed raised the discount rate in February, an increase
it described as a “normalization” of lending rather than a
change in policy, and has kept it at 0.75 percent since then.
Directors at three Fed banks including St. Louis called for an
increase in the discount rate to 1 percent, minutes of Board of
Governors meetings from April showed.  
 “I would have preferred to make more, but now, with added
global turmoil coming from Europe, I think probably now is not
the time to continue to normalize that,” Bullard said.  
 “We can expect market concerns to remain for months,
possibly years,” as countries seek to regain investor trust,
Bullard said in the speech. “The European sovereign debt
situation is serious and there are many unanswered questions
about how events will unfold,” he said, while adding that
budget retrenchment programs in the region “have a good chance
of success.”  
 In the U.S., it is “time for fiscal consolidation,” he
said. “A substantial and credible fiscal adjustment could set
up the U.S. for a sustained period of growth, as it did in the
1990s.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, speaks in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
