-- Buy `Oversold' Ausssie Dollar Versus New Zealand's, Credit Agricole Says
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-06-14T04:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/buy-oversold-ausssie-dollar-versus-new-zealand-s-credit-agricole-says.html

          
          
                  June 14 (Bloomberg) --Investors should buy the Australian
dollar against New Zealand’s as the so-called Aussie is “now
oversold,” analysts at Credit Agricole CIB said in a report.  
 “Buy Aussie-kiwi cash at current levels, with our
quantitative model suggesting spot is below fair value,” Credit
Agricole CIB’s  Mitul Kotecha , Hong Kong-based head of global
foreign-exchange strategy, and  Simon Smollett , London-based
technical analyst, wrote in an e-mailed note.  
 The firm’s quantitative model is based on relative stock
market performance in Australia and New Zealand, the
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials, and interest-
rate differentials. The model shows “possible upside” for the
Australian dollar versus its New Zealand counterpart, the
analysts said in the research report dated June 11.  
 Australia’s dollar rose to NZ$1.2359 as of 4:28 p.m. in
Wellington from NZ$1.2325 in New York on June 11. The Aussie
advanced 0.4 percent versus the so-called kiwi last week.  
 Credit Agricole CIB recommended investors buy Australia’s
dollar at NZ$1.2348, with a target of NZ$1.2675 and an automatic
instruction to sell the currency should it weaken beyond the
NZ$1.2212 level.  
 Trading patterns also signal the Australian dollar may
advance against the kiwi, the analysts wrote.  
 “Technical signals show bullish ‘positive divergence’ and
the potential for ‘counterattack’ following the triangular
consolidation,” they said, citing candlestick charts.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        