-- Buyers Eye $25 Million Giacometti at Biggest Contemporary Fair
-- Scott Reyburn
-- 2010-06-14T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/buyers-eye-25-million-giacometti-at-biggest-contemporary-fair.html

          
          
             A $25 million  Alberto Giacometti 
sculpture and one of the last works by  Louise Bourgeois  are
being eyed by collectors as the world’s largest modern and
contemporary art fair opens in Switzerland.  
 VIPs -- who in previous years have included actor  Brad Pitt 
and billionaires  Roman Abramovich  and  Aditya Mittal  -- are
browsing the 41st Art Basel from today. They can choose from 303
galleries representing 36 countries and 2,500 artists, the
event’s organizers said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Dealers are looking to buyers from the world’s emerging
economies, especially Asia, to boost sales as the market for
contemporary works recovers from the biggest slump since 1991.
Demand for the most coveted modern and contemporary art has
increased during the last six months, thanks to new buyers.  
 “Basel is the place to be,”  Kamel Mennour , a Paris-based
dealer, said in an interview. “We’re hoping to see a new
generation and a new geography of buyers. There might be only 10
collectors in Indonesia, but they will come to this event.”  
 The decline of the euro against the dollar and other
currencies should encourage non-European buyers, said Mennour, a
first-time exhibitor in the main hall of the fair.  
 Among the most expensive classic modern pieces will be the
$25 million lifetime cast of Giacometti’s 1948 to 1950 bronze,
“Trois Hommes qui Marchent I,” offered by the Montreal-based
dealer  Landau Fine Art . A Giacometti lifetime cast of a single
walking man fetched a record 65 million pounds (then $103.4
million) at a Sotheby’s auction in London on Feb. 3.  
 Basel Barometer  
 “The money is out there. It’s just a question of where it
wants to settle,”  Robert Landau , gallery director, said in an
interview. “Basel is the barometer of our year, even though the
bulk of the interest is focused on emerging artists.”  
 Bourgeois’s 5-foot-high (1.5 meters) mixed-media work on
paper, “A Baudelaire (#7),” produced during the last year of
the New York-based artist’s life, will be priced at more than
$650,000 on Brussels-based dealer  Xavier Hufkens’s  booth at Art
Basel. Bourgeois died in May aged 98.  
 “Basel is a marketplace, and a place where the content of
art is taken seriously,” Hufkens, a member of Art Basel’s
selection committee, said in an interview. “We’ve heard from
our VIP services that for the first time we’re going to see a
lot of groups from Asia.” Demand in the market for contemporary
art has become more focused on classic names, he said.  
 Last year, better-than-expected Basel sales pointed to an
improvement in the market that had seen prices decline as much
as 50 percent after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings in
September 2008, dealers said. The 2009 event attracted a record
61,000 visitors, according a statement by the organizers.  
 Art Unlimited  
 Mennour will be showing the 2007 installation, “ A chaque
stencil une revolution ” (With Every Stencil a Revolution), by
the Moroccan conceptual artist Latifa Echakhch. The piece,
previously seen at Tate Modern, consists of a room lined with
thousands of pieces of blue carbon paper evoking lost copies of
political statements. It will be shown at the Art Unlimited
project section of the fair, priced at 15,000 euros ($18,168).  
 “There’s discrimination between the top and the middle,”
said London-based dealer  Daniella Luxembourg , who as last year
will be buying at Art Basel rather than exhibiting.  
 “Dealers will try to bring star pieces by established
names and works by younger artists, who always stir interest at
Basel. It’s like the real-estate market. Luxury apartments sell,
cheap apartments sell,” Luxembourg said in an interview.  
 Asian Buyers  
 Average auction prices at evening sales of contemporary
works now stand at 2.9 million pounds ($4.22 million), up from
1.4 million pounds last year, according to a report published in
May by the London-based research company  ArtTactic . Bidders from
Asia were active at  Sotheby’s  and  Christie’s International’s 
auctions of Impressionist and modern art in May, when a Picasso
painting sold for a record $106.5 million.  
 “We’ve seen buyers from Russia and Asia, though not as
many Middle Eastern clients as we’d like,” said Amy Gold, a
director at the New York-based dealership  L & M Arts , which is
asking $4.2 million for the 1952 Franz Klein abstract,
“Diagonal, Black and White.” “We’re expecting interest in
classic works.”  
 The days are over of collectors running to booths to buy
works by the hottest contemporary names that could be sold two
or three years later for substantial profits at auction, said
dealers.  
 “It’s still tough for the galleries,”  Todd Levin , the New
York-based art adviser, said. “Prices are still down. Though
dealers are selling and new buyers have entered the market, it’s
not like 2006 and 2007 when they had waiting lists and they
could sell shows four times over.”  
 Satellite Fairs  
 Once they’ve covered Art Basel’s two floors of booths and
various project spaces, collectors will also be enticed by a
variety of satellite fairs.  
 Volta, Scope and Liste -- “the Young Art Fair” -- and Hot
Art -- Latin American -- give less established galleries the
chance to show the work of the world’s emerging artists-in-
waiting.  
 For the second year, Design Miami/Basel, situated in an
exhibition hall near the contemporary-art fair, will include
dealers in antique French furniture as well as specialists in
modern and contemporary design.  
 “Many of the historic designs these galleries will show
are strikingly modern while exquisitely made. They are part of a
craft tradition which we are still celebrating at Design
Miami,” Ambra Medda, fair director, said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 Twelve out of the event’s 32 participating galleries,
including the three showing historic works, are based in Paris.  
 Two years ago, the design fair was dominated by heftily
priced pieces of “design art” that appealed to wealthy
contemporary-art collectors. Since then, demand for limited-
edition furniture by  Zaha Hadid ,  Ron Arad  and other “design
artists” has cooled.  
 Art Basel’s main sponsor is  UBS AG . The event takes place
at Messe Basel, Messeplatz, 4005 Basel through June 20.  
 Information:  http://www.artbasel.com/go/id/ss/lang/eng/   
 ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in Basel at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Trois Hommes qui Marchent I"  
                       
                         
                           Landau Fine Art via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Trois Hommes qui Marchent I" by Alberto Giacometti. The sculpture is for sale by the Montreal-based gallery Landau Fine Art at this year's Art Basel fair. Dating from 1948 to 1950, it is priced at $25 million. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Trois Hommes qui Marchent I" by Alberto Giacometti. The sculpture is for sale by the Montreal-based gallery Landau Fine Art at this year's Art Basel fair. Dating from 1948 to 1950, it is priced at $25 million. Source: Landau Fine Art via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Louise Bourgeois mixed-media work,``A Baudelaire (#7)'' is being shown by the Brussels-based gallery Hufkens at the 41st Art Basel fair. Dating from 2009, the work is one of the artist's last and is priced at more than $650,000. Source: Hufkens via Bloomberg.  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Diagonal, Black and White"  
                       
                         
                           L & M Arts via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Diagonal, Black and White" by abstract expressionist artist Franz Kline. It is priced at $4.2 million at the booth of New York-based dealer L & M Arts at this year's Art Basel fair. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Diagonal, Black and White" by abstract expressionist artist Franz Kline. It is priced at $4.2 million at the booth of New York-based dealer L & M Arts at this year's Art Basel fair. Source: L & M Arts via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
