-- Cablevision Systems Agrees to Buy Bresnan for $1.37 Billion
-- and Matthew Boyle
-- 2010-06-14T18:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/cablevision-systems-agrees-to-buy-bresnan-communications-for-1-37-billion.html

          
          
             Cablevision Systems Corp. , the New
York area cable-television provider, agreed to buy Bresnan
Communications Co. from Providence Equity Partners Inc. for
$1.37 billion to expand in the western U.S.  
 Cablevision  rose  the most in 10 months in New York trading,
reversing earlier declines, after making its case for the deal
to investors. Executives, on a conference call, pledged to
increase Bresnan’s customer base and make it more profitable and
signaled they’re not actively pursuing other cable acquisitions.  
 The purchase lets Cablevision expand in Colorado, Montana,
Wyoming and Utah, which are attractive because they have lower
pay-TV penetration rates than its home market and no competition
from  Verizon Communications Inc. ’s fiber-optic TV service.
Cablevision, the fifth-largest U.S. cable operator, said the
purchase will add to its free cash flow in 2011.  
 “Although the deal may be pricey on the surface,
Cablevision is putting in place a plan for long-term growth,”
said  David Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.
“In its home markets, Cablevision has reached 90 percent
penetration rates, so they need to expand elsewhere.”  
 Cablevision rose $1.19, or 5.1 percent, to $24.59 at 2:43
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after hitting
$25.61 for the biggest intraday gain since July 30. The stock
had gained  9.8 percent  this year before today.  
 Cablevision, based in Bethpage, New York, also announced a
$500 million share buyback program.  
 Attractive Market  
 Bresnan has more than 300,000 cable and broadband
customers. The deal will give Cablevision a bigger slice of the
burgeoning market for high-speed Internet services, where
revenue will rise to $210 billion globally in 2014 from $164
billion in 2009, according to ABI Research in Oyster Bay, New
York. Cablevision Chief Operating Officer  Tom Rutledge  will
oversee the Bresnan properties.  
 “This acquisition is relatively low risk given
Cablevision’s experience in the industry,” said  Chris Marangi ,
an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York. “Bresnan has a
relatively small group of subscribers, is well-clustered with
advanced systems, and will be relatively easy to manage for
Rutledge and his team.”  
 Cablevision will buy Bresnan through a newly-formed
subsidiary with standalone financing. The subsidiary will be
given no more than $400 million by  Cablevision  and will issue
about $1 billion in debt to fund the transaction.  
 The way the deal is structured means that Cablevision will
still be able to give some of the cash flow from its New York
systems back to shareholders, Marangi said.  
 Premium Price  
 Cablevision estimates it paid a little more than 8 times
Bresnan’s annual cash flow to acquire the company, excluding any
potential synergies, said  Gregg Seibert , Cablevision’s executive
vice president, on the company’s conference call today.  
 The purchase price, which is higher than current multiples
in the cable industry, turned off some investors, sending the
stock down in early trading. Comcast Corp. trades for about 5.6
times 2009 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, while Time Warner Cable Inc. trades at 5.8 times,
and Cablevision trades for 6.3 times, estimates  Craig Moffett ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  
 Bresnan generates an annualized cash flow of about $250 per
home, compared with Cablevision’s $450, Rutledge said. Closing
that gap through new services and the expansion of a phone, Web
and cable bundle is a “significant opportunity,” he said.
Cablevision said it will also reap some tax benefits from the
purchase that will ultimately add to its free cash flow.  
 “We don’t have a lot of fixing to do,” Rutledge said. “The
plant is sound, the customer service is solid, and the
technological platform is robust.”  
 Competing Bids  
 Cablevision Chief Executive Officer  Jim Dolan  said the
takeover doesn’t mean the company plans more cable purchases.  
 “The Bresnan transaction has some unique aspects that
should not be taken as a signal that we are in the market for
every cable company that may eventually be for sale,” he said.  
 Dolan, whose family controls Cablevision, spun off the
company’s Madison Square Garden unit this year to concentrate on
the more profitable cable assets.  
 To buy Purchase, New York-based Bresnan, Cablevision
competed against TPG Capital, BC Partners Ltd., Suddenlink
Communications and Ascent Media Corp., said a person close to
the negotiations who declined to be identified because the
details aren’t public.  John Malone , chairman of Liberty Media
LLC, owns 30.3 percent of the voting shares of Ascent Media.  
 TPG spokesman  Owen Blicksilver  and BC Partners spokeswoman
 Martha Kelly  both declined to comment.  
 Providence hired Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG to sell
the company. Cablevision hired Citigroup Inc. as its lead
financial advisor, along with Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Guggenheim Securities LLC.  Comcast Corp.  agreed to sell its 30
percent stake in Bresnan as part of the deal, said  D’Arcy Rudnay , a spokeswoman for Comcast.  
 (Cablevision held a conference call earlier today. To
listen, dial +1-888-694-4641 with passcode 81994062)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Cablevision Systems Corp. headquarters stand in Bethpage, New York. Photographer: Rick Maiman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
