-- Cablevision Systems Agrees to Buy Bresnan for $1.37 Billion
-- Kelly Riddell
-- 2010-06-14T11:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/cablevision-systems-agrees-to-buy-bresnan-for-1-36-billion.html

          
          
             Cablevision Systems Corp. , the
fifth-largest U.S. cable operator, agreed to buy Bresnan
Communications Co. from Providence Equity Partners Inc. for
$1.37 billion to expand in the western U.S.  
 Cablevision, based in Bethpage, New York, will add
Bresnan’s more than 300,000 subscribers in Colorado, Montana,
Wyoming and Utah, the companies said in a statement today.
Cablevision also announced a $500 million share buyback program.  
 Acquiring Bresnan will give Cablevision a bigger slice of
the burgeoning market for high-speed Internet services, where
revenue is expected to rise to $210 billion globally in 2014
from $164 billion in 2009, according to ABI Research in Oyster
Bay, New York.  
 “Bresnan is quite well-run, with well-upgraded systems
that have been aggressively rolling out advanced services,”
wrote analyst  Richard Greenfield  of BTIG LLC in New York, in a
note to clients on June 9. “The quality of the systems is high
and the competitive risks are low.”  
 Cablevision will buy Bresnan through a newly-formed
subsidiary with standalone financing, the companies said. The
subsidiary will be given no more than $400 million by
Cablevision and will issue about $1 billion in debt to fund the
transaction.  
 Cablevision competed against bids from TPG Capital, BC
Partners Ltd., Suddenlink Communications and Ascent Media Corp.,
said one person close to the negotiations who declined to be
identified because the details aren’t public.  John Malone ,
chairman of Liberty Media LLC, owns 30.3 percent of the voting
shares of Ascent Media.  
 Midwestern Roots  
 TPG spokesman  Owen Blicksilver  and BC Partners spokeswoman
 Martha Kelly  both declined to comment.  
 Bresnan, based in Purchase, New York, provides broadband-
communication services and is 30 percent-owned by  Comcast Corp. 
Providence hired Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG to sell the
company.  
 Bresnan Communications was founded in 1984 by  William J. Bresnan , who was born in Mankato, Minnesota, according to the
company’s website. Bresnan initially operated cable systems both
in the Upper Midwest and internationally, before focusing on the
Rocky Mountain states, the  website  said.  
 Bresnan, who repurchased the company in 2003 for $525
million with backing from Providence, died last year. Jeffrey
DeMond, a long-time executive who served as chief financial
officer and president, has been CEO since last year.  
 Going West  
 The purchase expands the customer base of Cablevision from
the New York City region into the western U.S. market, which is
attractive because it has lower pay-TV penetration rates than
Cablevision’s home market and no competition from Verizon
Communications Inc.’s fiber-optic TV service.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Jim Dolan , whose family controls
Cablevision, spun off the company’s Madison Square Garden unit
this year to concentrate on the more profitable cable assets. On
the company’s May 6 conference call,  Gregg Seibert , an executive
vice president, said the company’s first priority was to use its
free cash flow to invest in and expand the business.  
 Providence is also trying to sell Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.
as the Los Angeles-based film studio, which Providence and other
investors took private for $5 billion in 2005, struggles to
repay $3.7 billion in debt. TPG Capital, Sony Corp. and Comcast
Corp. also participated in that purchase.  
 Cablevision, based in Bethpage, New York, rose 3 cents to
$23.40 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on June 11.
The stock has gained  9.8 percent  year to date.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        