-- Canada Lawmakers Ratify Free Trade Agreement With Colombia, Send to Senate
-- Theophilos Argitis
-- 2010-06-14T23:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/canada-lawmakers-ratify-free-trade-agreement-with-colombia-send-to-senate.html

          
          
             Canadian lawmakers today approved a
free trade agreement with Colombia, a move that may give its
agricultural producers an advantage over U.S. competitors in the
Latin American country.  
 Canada’s  House of Commons  voted 188 to 79 in favor of the
accord, which now moves to the Senate for final approval. The
two countries began negotiations in 2007 and signed the
agreement in 2008.  
 “In adopting this free trade agreement, Canada will be in
a very strong competitive position vis-à-vis our other
competition around the world and this will mean a great deal to
our agricultural sector,” Canadian Trade Minister  Peter Van Loan  told reporters earlier today.  
 Colombian Trade Minister  Luis Guillermo Plata  said in an
April 28 interview that Canadian exporters may gain as U.S.
lawmakers delay approval of their free-trade agreement. Plata
traveled to Ottawa and Washington earlier this year to court
lawmakers in a bid to build support for the trade accords before
Colombian President  Alvaro Uribe’s  term expires in August.  
 “Many of the things that we buy from the U.S. we could buy
from Canada and we could buy tariff-free,” Plata, 42, said in
the interview, pointing to purchases of wheat, barley, corn,
machinery and mining equipment.  
 In 2008, two-way trade between Canada and Colombia was more
than C$1.3 billion ($1.26 billion), according to Canada’s  trade
department . About 80 percent of Colombian exports are already
duty-free, according to figures provided by the trade
department, and include goods such as coal, coffee, banana, cut
flowers and sugars. Colombia imports wheat and other cereals,
newsprint, off-road trucks and machinery and electrical
equipment from Canada.  
 Strengthening Ties  
 Prime Minister  Stephen Harper’s  governing Conservatives
have made strengthening ties with Latin America a priority in an
effort to broaden markets for Canadian commodities and reduce
the country’s dependence on the U.S. economy.  
 Harper’s Conservatives lack a majority of seats in
Parliament and needed the support of the opposition Liberals to
pass the legislation. The Liberals amended the  agreement  to
include yearly assessments of human rights conditions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        