-- Cavenagh Hedge Fund Gets Dutch Pension Money, Moves to Amsterdam from Asia
-- Netty Ismail
-- 2010-06-14T04:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/cavenagh-hedge-fund-gets-dutch-pension-money-moves-to-amsterdam-from-asia.html

          
          
             Cavenagh Capital, set up last year
by former Morgan Stanley and DBS Holdings Ltd. managers in
Singapore, will start a new macro hedge fund in July after
getting money from the biggest Dutch pension fund.  
 Andrew Gale  and  Lee Ka Shao  moved to Amsterdam this month
after getting a three-year seeding commitment from APG, which
manages the assets of Heerlen, Netherlands-based  Stichting
Pensioenfonds ABP , said Gale.  
 The Luxembourg-domiciled Cavenagh Asia Fund, which seeks to
profit from broad economic trends, will start with about $40
million, said Gale, who worked with  Morgan Stanley  in fixed-
income sales in London and Singapore for more than 15 years.  
 Asian hedge-fund managers, especially startups and those
overseeing smaller amounts, have been finding it tough to raise
money as investors remain wary after the financial crisis. About
70 percent of the funds launched in the past two years had $50
million or less as of the end of March, according to Singapore-
based GFIA Pte, which advises investors seeking to allocate
money to hedge funds.  
 “The capital raising environment is improving, money is
still looking for good places to go, but you’d have to have
critical mass to attract assets; it’s a chicken and egg
situation,” Gale, 48, said in a phone interview from Amsterdam.
“Now we can build a meaningful track record based upon a
meaningful amount of money.”  
 Cavenagh, which trades derivatives including currency and
interest-rate options, plans to raise more assets from
institutional investors such as pension funds and family offices
in Europe, said Gale, who is chief executive officer.  
 Seeding Capital  
 APG’s investment in Cavenagh was made through IMQubator,
which provides seeding capital to new managers.  
 Cavenagh “is a rare combination of highly original
thinking, very methodical risk reward analysis with a strong
instinct to find cheap option prices,” said Rikard Lundgren,
chief investment officer of Amsterdam-based IMQubator. “The
Asian macro space is well matched with the manager’s skill and
method and he has an excellent track to prove it too.”  
 IMQubator requires the managers it invests in to be in the
same office “as part of the close monitoring and transparency
that we require,” Lundgren said. IMQubator has made five
allocations of 25 million euros each to new managers and may
make as many as four more commitments before the end of the year,
he said.  
 ABP had invested capital of 208 billion euros ($253 billion)
as of Dec. 31, according to the pension fund’s website. ABP is
the world’s third-largest pension fund according to data from
New York-based Pensions & Investments and Towers Watson.  
 Tail-Risk Events  
 As managing director of DBS’s Central Treasury Unit until
2007, Lee, 40, set up and ran the bank’s principal strategies
business and produced returns that averaged 38 percent a year,
Gale said. Lee grew the unit’s capital to almost $1 billion,
from the $125 million that the Singapore-based bank, Southeast
Asia’s biggest, had given him initially, Gale said.  
 Lee, Cavenagh’s chief investment officer, then joined Hong
Kong-based Abax Global Capital Ltd., a hedge-fund manager in
which Morgan Stanley bought a stake when it was set up in 2007.  
 Prior to joining  DBS  in 2001, Lee worked at JPMorgan Chase
& Co., where he traded currencies, rates and derivatives for the
bank’s market-making and proprietary trading business. He served
as an army officer leading reconnaissance and intelligence
missions in the Singapore Armed Forces from 1987 to 1990.  
 Cavenagh’s fund assesses how market participants position
themselves in anticipation of events taking place and focuses on
the “changing probability of an outcome,” Gale said. It will
protect and potentially profit from unlikely occurrences that
may prove disastrous for investors, known as tail-risk events,
he said.  
 The fund will target returns of 15 percent to 20 percent,
said Gale, who was most recently responsible for product
development and asset raising at London-based Dexion Capital Plc.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cavenagh hedge fund gets Dutch pension money  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Cavenagh Captial CEO Andrew Gale. Photograph: Cavenagh Capital via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Cavenagh Captial CEO Andrew Gale. Photograph: Cavenagh Capital via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Cavenagh hedge fund gets Dutch pension money  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Chief investment officer of Cavenagh Captial Lee Ka Shao. Photograph: Cavenagh Capital via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chief investment officer of Cavenagh Captial Lee Ka Shao. Photograph: Cavenagh Capital via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
