-- CBOE Holdings Raises $339 Million Pricing IPO at Top of Range
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-06-15T20:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/cboe-raises-339-million-selling-shares-at-top-of-range-in-exchange-ipo.html

          
          
             CBOE Holdings Inc. , the last major
U.S. securities exchange owned by its members, surged 12 percent
after completing its transformation into a public company with
an initial public offering.  
 The operator of the biggest options exchange  climbed  $3.49
to $32.49 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading today. CBOE raised $339
million selling 11.7 million shares at $29 each yesterday after
offering them at $27 to $29, a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing showed.  
 The sale came after Europe’s debt crisis spurred more than
30 companies worldwide to postpone or withdraw IPOs since April.
Derivatives trading increased almost fivefold in the past decade
and the CBOE is the venue for options based on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and the  VIX  gauge of U.S. equity volatility.  
 “It’s a strong business model,” said  Nick Einhorn , a
Greenwich, Connecticut-based analyst at Renaissance Capital LLC,
which has followed IPOs since 1991. “Even though the IPO market
hasn’t been strong and a lot of deals have faced pricing
pressure, it shows for a high quality company, investors can
certainly make an exception.”  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  of New York was hired to lead the
sale. Chicago-based Schiff Hardin LLP provided legal advice.  
 Market Rebound  
 CBOE was the first American company to sell shares in an
initial offering since Pasadena, California-based  GenMark
Diagnostics Inc.  on May 28. IPOs had dried up as concern the
European debt turmoil is spreading beyond Greece and slower-
than-estimated U.S. jobs growth in May helped push the S&P 500
down as much as  14 percent  from its 2010 high on April 23.  
 The benchmark gauge for American equities has rebounded 6.2
percent since June 7 amid signs that growth in China and the
U.S. will sustain the global economic recovery.  
 “If you have the right name and right price at this point,
it’s not a surprise investor interest has picked up,” said
 Frederic Dickson , the Lake Oswego, Oregon-based chief market
strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co., which oversees $25 billion.
“It’s the success of a big-name launch in more favorable market
conditions.”  
 At the IPO price,  CBOE  is at least 53 percent more
expensive than  NYSE Euronext  and  Deutsche Boerse AG . Record
derivatives trading and the potential for a takeover by its
competitors help justify the premium, Chicago-based IPOX Capital
Management LLC, which invests in IPOs, said before the sale.  
 Index Options  
 The Chicago Board Options Exchange, now called CBOE, was
founded in 1973 as the first public venue for trading equity
options. It began with products based on 16 companies listed on
the New York Stock Exchange and introduced options based on
stock indexes in 1983.  
 The  CBOE S&P 500 Volatility Index , or VIX, which measures
how much investors will pay to protect against losses in the S&P
500, posted its biggest weekly increase on record last month
after the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  briefly tumbled almost
1,000 points before recouping some of its losses.  
 “They’re selling a product that’s going to be in great
demand,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1 billion
as chief investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors in Walnut
Creek, California. “In the world we live in right now where
people want to buy more and more insurance against uncertainty,
CBOE has a very optimistic future.”  
 CBOE Members  
 CBOE , which became a for-profit company in 2006, is
converting each of its 930 seats into 80,000 Class A shares,
accounting for 74.4 million, according to a filing with the SEC.
Some former members of the Chicago Board of Trade that helped
establish the CBOE will together receive 16.3 million Class B
shares. Both Class A and Class B shares become common stock.  
 About 2.09 million of those shares were offered in CBOE’s
11.7 million share sale. The remaining stakes held by owners
can’t be sold to the public for 180 days to 360 days.  
 The cost of a CBOE seat in the past two decades through
last week had been as low as $131,500 in August 2002 and as high
as $3.3 million in June 2008, data compiled by the  CBOE  and
Bloomberg show. At 80,000 shares a seat, the per-share expense
has ranged from $1.64 to $41.25 and averaged $10.89.  
 That means the initial sale handed owners an immediate
paper gain of 166 percent on average at $29 a share.  
 That’s in addition to the $100,000-a-seat payout each CBOE
member received, which will cost the exchange about $113.4
million. The expense exceeds the amount the company  earned  in
all of 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Nymex, CBOT  
 Speculation that CBOE may be acquired helped spur  Thomas Caldwell , who owned 56 seats as chairman of Toronto-based
Caldwell Financial Ltd., to add to his holdings this month.  
 The industry had at least $61 billion of acquisitions since
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nymex Holdings Inc. , CBOT
Holdings Inc. and International Securities Exchange Holdings
Inc. were bought within three years of their IPOs after
government regulations boosted competition.  
 “It would have been impossible for anyone to take over
CBOE prior to it becoming a public company,” said Caldwell.
“Once you are a public company the market decides your value.”  
 Buyers of the IPO paid 22.5 times CBOE’s estimated 2010
earnings of $1.29 a share, according to data compiled by  Diego Perfumo , an analyst who covers exchanges at Equity Research Desk
LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut.  
 CME Group  
 That’s more than the two biggest publicly traded U.S.
derivatives exchanges. Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. , the world’s
largest futures market, is valued at 19 times projected
earnings, and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.  of Atlanta, the
second-biggest U.S. futures market, trades at 21.3 times
estimated profit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 NYSE , which generated 39 percent of its operating profit
from derivatives last year, and Deutsche Boerse, part-owner of
the International Securities Exchange, CBOE’s largest competitor
in U.S. equity options, also trade at a discount to the Chicago-
based bourse.  NYSE , the world’s biggest equity exchange, is
valued at 12.4 times 2010 estimated profit, and Frankfurt-based
 Deutsche Boerse  trades at 14.7 times.  
 CBOE, which makes most of its money from trading fees,
accounted for 32 percent of options volume in May, when trading
reached a record 405.9 million contracts, according to Chicago-
based Options Clearing Corp. That’s 13 percentage points more
than ISE of New York, which had one in every five contracts.  
 Earnings Forecasts  
 Per-share earnings at CBOE may climb 22 percent this year
on increasing demand for equity derivatives, according to an
estimate by Equity Research Desk. That’s more than the  CME’s  19
percent gain and the 13 percent increase for the  NYSE , analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Deutsche Boerse’s profit
may decline 9 percent in 2010.  
 CBOE is the first of six initial offerings that are
scheduled for this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Five
companies are slated to sell shares tomorrow. Houston-based
 Oasis Petroleum Inc. , the drilling and exploration company with
oilfields in Montana and North Dakota, is seeking as much as
$630 million in what would be the largest U.S. IPO this year.  
 Tesla Motors Inc. , the Palo Alto, California-based maker of
electric sports cars that hasn’t posted a profit since its
founding in 2003, said today that it will seek to raise $178
million selling a 12 percent stake in an IPO.  
 “If you look at the IPOs that have priced here of late,
it’s been a mixed bag,” said YCMNet’s Yoshikami. CBOE “is not
indicative of the IPO market per se, because this is a unique
company in a unique space,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       CBOE Holdings Shares Jump as IPO Raises $339 Million  
                       
                         
                           John Zich/Bloomberg 
                         
                         CBOE Holdings CEO William Brodsky and Sandy Frucher, vice chairman of NASDAQ OMX, prepare to remotely ring the Nasdaq opening bell. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     CBOE Holdings CEO William Brodsky and Sandy Frucher, vice chairman of NASDAQ OMX, prepare to remotely ring the Nasdaq opening bell. Photographer: John Zich/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 15 (Bloomberg) -- CBOE Holdings Inc., the last major U.S. securities exchange owned by its members, completed its transformation into a public company with an initial public offering. The operator of the biggest options exchange raised $339 million selling 11.7 million shares at $29 after offering them at $27 to $29. The shares start trading today on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker CBOE. Bloomberg's Suzanne O'Halloran reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
