-- CEZ, Chemiczne, KGHM, Zachodni May Move: Central European Equity Preview
-- Nathaniel Espino
-- 2010-06-14T06:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/cez-chemiczne-kghm-polska-zachodni-central-european-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names
and share prices are from the last close.  
 Poland’s  WIG20 Index  fell 0.1 percent, the Czech  PX Index 
added 1.1 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index  rose 0.8 percent.  
 Bank Handlowy SA  (BHW PW): The Polish lender controlled by
Citigroup Inc. was raised to “buy” versus “hold” at Deutsche
Bank AG. Handlowy declined 0.7 percent to 75 zloty.  
 Bank Zachodni WBK SA  (BZW PW): Intesa Sanpaolo SpA Chief
Executive Officer  Corrado Passera  said the Italian bank is
“looking at” the Polish unit of Allied Irish Banks Plc.
Zachodni declined 1.7 percent to 194.6 zloty.  
 KGHM Polska Miedz SA  (KGH PW): Poland’s state-owned copper
producer is seeking to buy an 11 percent stake in Tauron Polska
Energia SA in the power utility’s initial public offering. KGHM
shares rose 1.4 percent to 95.4 zloty.  
 Kulczyk Oil Ventures Inc.  (KOV PW): The exploration company
controlled by Polish billionaire  Jan Kulczyk  completed the $45
million purchase of a 70 percent stake in Ukrainian gas producer
KUB-Gas,  Parkiet  reported, citing Kulczyk’s Deputy Chief
Executive Officer, Jakub Korczak. The shares fell 3.9 percent to
1.98 zloty.  
 PGE SA  (PGE PW),  CEZ AS  (CEZ CP): Poland’s Treasury
Ministry will allow PGE, the country’s largest power supplier,
CEZ of the Czech Republic, and three other bidders to conduct
due diligence on Energa SA, Poland’s fourth-largest power
utility.  
 PGE may finance purchasing of an 83 percent stake in Energa
from its own funds,  Dziennik Gazeta Prawna  reported today,
citing Chief Executive Officer  Tomasz Zadroga . PGE shares were
unchanged at 21.28 zloty. CEZ rose 0.7 percent to 916 koruna.  
 PKO Bank Polski SA  (PKO PW): Poland’s biggest bank wants to
expand its investment-banking operations,  Puls Biznesu  cited
Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Jakub Papierski  as saying. The
shares fell 1.5 percent to 38.4 zloty.  
 PZU SA  (PZU PW): The supervisory board of Poland’s largest
insurer plans to increase the Chief Executive Officer Andrzej
Klesyk’s salary to a level 10 percent to 15 percent higher than
the industry’s average, or to 110,000 zloty ($32,688) a month,
Rp.pl reported, without citing anyone. PZU dropped 0.3 percent
to 349 zloty.  
 Grupa Lotos SA  (LTS PW): Poland’s No. 2 refiner and
 StatoilHydro ASA , Norway’s biggest oil and natural-gas producer,
have delayed the formation of an aircraft oil delivery venture
because of Statoil’s plans for a public offering,  Puls Biznesu 
said. Grupa Lotos shares fell 2.3 percent to 31.11 zloty.  
 TU Europa SA  (ERP PW): The Polish insurer controlled by
billionaire Leszek Czarnecki plans to sell shares later this
year, after suspending the plan to hold a public offering in
mid-2010,  Rzeczpospolita  reported, citing Chairman  Jacek Podoba .
Europa shares rose 5 percent to 125 zloty.  
 Zaklady Chemiczne Police SA  (PCE PW): Chemiczne plans to
seek a five-year repayment extension on 150 million zloty ($45
million) in state aid and is working on a restructuring plan,
 Parkiet  said, citing Chief Executive Officer  Zbigniew Miklewicz .
Chemiczne shares were unchanged at 5.35 zloty.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marta Waldoch  in Warsaw on 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        