-- Chavez's Popularity Rises as Currency Broker Arrests Offset Economic Slump
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-06-14T18:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/chavez-s-popularity-rises-as-currency-broker-arrests-offset-economic-slump.html

          
          
             Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s
popularity rose last month from a seven-year low after he
arrested brokerage directors and expropriated food distributors
that he blamed for  double-digit inflation  amid a recession.  
 Chavez’s approval rating rose to 48 percent in May from 42
percent in April, according to Caracas-based polling group
 Datanalisis . The poll surveyed 1,300 people across the country
and had a margin of error of 2.72 percentage points.  
 Amid an economic slump and inflation that’s the highest in
78 economies tracked by Bloomberg, Venezuela’s government is
squeezing the private sector and blaming businesses for the
problems to ensure voter support before congressional elections
in September, Datanalisis director Luis Vicente Leon said.  
 Chavez’s approval rating rebounded in May after beginning
to deteriorate along with the economy in early 2009, Leon said.  
 “Chavez decided to attack everything in the private sector
and use them as a scapegoat for the economic crisis,” Leon said
in an interview at his home in Caracas. “He won’t respect
anyone and will only focus on his popularity, whether he has to
punish sympathizers or opponents.”  
 Chavez, a 55-year-old former army paratrooper who champions
a socialist ideology, has won more than a dozen elections during
his 11 years in power on the back of government spending on
social programs amid an oil windfall. The economy slid into
recession last year for the first time since 2003, stripping the
state of resources and forcing Chavez to hoard  dollar reserves 
and pare imports of food and factory equipment.  
 Currency Market  
 This year, Chavez dismantled the unregulated currency
market, took control of 37 brokerages and jailed 12 directors as
part of a probe into capital flight and money laundering.  
 Chavez’s  United Socialist Party of Venezuela  will seek to
retain a majority in the National Assembly on Sept. 26 when 167
lawmakers will be elected for five-year terms. The opposition
boycotted previous elections in 2005, opening the way for Chavez
to rule by decree and remove presidential term limits.  
 The PSUV, as the socialist party is known, gets greater
support from voters in smaller towns and rural areas than from
those in cities. Its members have an advantage in the elections
because of rules that mandate equal representation for rural and
urban areas without regard to population, Leon said.  
 “To elect a lawmaker in Caracas you need 350,000 votes,
but to elect one in a small state like Amazonas, you only need
20,000,” he said.  
 Government Arrest  
 Chavez says that his “socialist revolution” has no
“sacred cows” and that any officials found guilty of graft
will be punished. The government jailed a board member of state
oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , who was president of food
subsidiary PDVAL, on June 3 after 30,000 metric tons of rotting
food were found at a port.  
 Bank of America Corp. said today that Venezuela’s economy
may contract 2.5 percent this year, revising an earlier forecast
of 0.1 percent growth. Latin America as a whole will grow
4.8 percent this year, according to Bank of America.  
 “It’s possible that Chavez will convince his base that the
crisis is a reflection of external factors and that he’s
punishing those responsible,” Leon said. “The government can
surf this crisis and even win the elections in September, but in
the long term he may not be able to reverse this negative
tendency because the economic situation will only get more
complicated.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        