-- Chevron Should Face Retrial Over Nigerian Beatings, Shootings, Court Told
-- Karen Gullo
-- 2010-06-14T23:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/chevron-should-face-retrial-over-nigerian-beatings-shootings-court-told.html

          
          
             Chevron Corp.  should face a new
trial for allegedly sanctioning beatings and shootings of
Nigerian protesters in 1998 because jurors who cleared the
company in 2008 were given erroneous instructions, lawyers for
protesters argued to a U.S. appeals court today.  
 A federal court jury was told, incorrectly, that the
protesters had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that company-
paid soldiers used excessive force against those who boarded
Chevron’s oil drilling platform located nine miles offshore of
the Niger Delta, said Theresa Traber, an attorney for the
Nigerians and their families.  
 Instead, it was  Chevron ’s burden to prove beyond a
reasonable doubt that the peaceful protesters, who were unarmed
and running away with arms raised when shots were fired, had
committed crimes that justified the type of force used by the
soldiers, Traber told the three-judge appellate panel at today’s
hearing in San Francisco. The Nigerians were protesting over
jobs and alleged environmental damage to the area.  
 “This was a major error that deprived the plaintiffs of
the fair trial they should have had on their battery claims,”
Traber said.  
 Two men were killed, others were shot and beaten and one
man was hung by his wrists and tortured after a protest about
jobs and alleged environmental damage to the area, according to
a 1999 lawsuit against Chevron. Nineteen Nigerians sued the
company claiming it was liable for the actions of the Nigerian
soldiers it hired to provide security for the oil platform.  
 150 Workers  
 Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, said at trial
that villagers invaded the platform and held 150 workers hostage
for ransom. They had knives, prevented workers from leaving the
platform and threatened to set it on fire, the jury was told.
The company said the soldiers acted in self-defense and denied
directing their conduct.  
 Craig Stewart , an attorney at Jones Day representing
Chevron today, told the judges that the jury was given proper
instructions by U.S. District Judge  Susan Illston , who presided
over the trial. Both sides had agreed that Nigerian law would be
applied to the battery claims by protesters, he said.  
 “Nigerian law, like California law, like federal law, puts
the burden on plaintiffs to prove that the force was
excessive,” Stewart said.  
 Jury Cleared Chevron  
 After almost 10 years of trial court proceedings, the case
went before a jury in October 2008. The jury cleared Chevron,
the second-largest U.S. oil company, of wrongful death, torture,
assault, battery and negligence claims.  
 Lawyers for the protesters appealed the verdict to the
federal appeals court in San Francisco. The judges took the
matter under submission and didn’t say when they would issue a
decision. A ruling in favor of the protesters could lead to a
retrial on battery claims of three Nigerians injured and the
family of a man who was killed in the attacks.  
 “We respect the rulings made by Judge Illston leading up
to and during the 5-week trial and believe that no errors were
made,” said Morgan Crinklaw, a Chevron spokesman, in an e-mail.  
 The case is Larry Bowoto v. Chevron, 09-15641, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        