-- China Nickel Pig Iron Makers Cut Output, Antaike Says
-- Glenys Sim
-- 2010-06-14T07:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/china-s-nickel-pig-iron-makers-curb-output-on-demand-slump-antaike-says.html

          
          
             Nickel pig iron makers in  China , the
world’s largest consumer of nickel, have started to idle
capacity as prices and demand weaken amid the nation’s curbs on
property development, according to a state-owned researcher.  
 Production of the low-cost substitute for the refined metal
dropped to between 14,000 and 15,000 metric tons in April from a
record 17,000 tons in March, said Xu Aidong, senior nickel
analyst at Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. There
would be further falls in output in May and this month, Xu said.  
 About two-thirds of global nickel production is used to
make stainless steel, and Antaike’s assessment adds to signs
that China’s drive to prevent a property bubble is helping to
hurt demand for commodities used in construction. Refined-nickel
futures in  London  have tumbled into a bear market since April.  
 “Output of nickel pig iron will fall further in May and
June as demand from the stainless-steel industry weakens,” Xu
said on June 11. “We often schedule visits to plants and have
been told by some producers not to go because they have either
suspended output or are carrying out their annual maintenance.”  
 Nickel futures on the London Metal Exchange slumped 29
percent from a 23-month high of $27,595 a ton on April 16 to the
close on June 11, hurt by China’s property moves and  Europe ’s
debt crisis. The contract traded today at $19,875 a ton at 3:17
p.m. in Singapore. A  bear market  is typically defined as a fall
of at least 20 percent in an asset or market.  
 ‘All in Agreement’  
 Some stainless-steel mills in China have already started
cutting production after a slump in prices, according to Wang Chongfeng, a Shanghai Metals Market analyst. Prices of nickel
plate in Changjiang, Shanghai’s biggest cash market, were about
152,500 yuan a ton on June 11, 22 percent less than a two-year
high in April. China’s financial markets are closed today.  
 “We’re all in agreement that output in May and June will
be lower,” said Wang, referring to the production of nickel pig
iron. Output was a record 20,000 tons in April, Wang estimated.  
 In addition to industry-specific measures such as
requirements for larger down-payments for some homes, the
government on May 2 raised banks’ reserve requirements for the
third time this year to contain overheating risks. Zinc smelters
in China have idled as much as 8.8 percent of capacity amid the
property curbs,  Shanghai  Metals Market said earlier this month.  
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. is “not very optimistic” that
stainless-steel consumption growth in China will match last year,
China’s second-biggest stainless steelmaker said May 26.  
 China’s stainless-steel output was 2.8 million tons in the
first quarter, according to Antaike, 27 percent more than in the
same period in 2009 and 36 percent more than in 2008.  
 ‘Very High Output’  
 “Stainless-steel production will moderate in the second
half, following very high output in the first, which was matched
by record nickel pig iron production,” said Wang Xiaoli, an
analyst at Citic Futures Co. “The slow-demand season in June
and July for stainless steel and nickel will continue to put
downward pressure on prices of both materials.”  
 The price of the widely-used type 304 stainless-steel sheet
in Shanghai dropped 10 percent in May, according to data from
Metal Bulletin, an industry publication. It reached $3,282.50 a
ton at the end of April, a level not seen since 2008.  
 Refined-nickel output in China grew 26 percent to 17,300
tons in May from a year ago, the National Bureau of Statistics
said on June 11. That’s 58 percent higher than in May 2008.  
 “Refined producers are unlikely to cut production as they
tend to be big enterprises that have the ability to withstand
the price decline,” Antaike’s Xu said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in  Singapore  at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        