-- Christie Order Withholding New Jersey School Aid Upheld by Appellate Court
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-06-14T18:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/christie-order-withholding-new-jersey-school-aid-upheld-by-appeals-court.html

          
          
             New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ’s
executive order withholding aid to school districts in February
didn’t violate the state constitution, an appellate court  ruled .  
 The  Perth Amboy Board of Education , which lost $15.2
million in aid because of the order, argued that the governor
exceeded his authority and the reductions should have been
approved by the Legislature.  
 Christie, 47, the first Republican elected New Jersey
governor since 1997, froze $475 million in school funding to
close a $2.2 billion revenue gap that he found after taking
office in January. He declared a “fiscal emergency,” saying
the deficit for the current fiscal year had swollen to twice
that projected by his predecessor, Democrat  Jon Corzine .  
 “The governor acted pursuant to constitutional and
statutory authority and, consequently, not in violation of the
separation of powers doctrine or in derogation of the
Legislature’s will,” the three-judge panel wrote in its 23-page
decision today.  
 The cuts came out of $11.4 billion in funding for K-12
education contained in the $29.8 billion  spending plan  Corzine
signed last June. Under Christie’s plan, districts were directed
to use surplus accounts to make up the lost funding.  
 Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman, said the governor
“is pleased that the appellate court recognized his significant
responsibilities and executive authority during a fiscal and
economic crisis.”  
 ‘Urgent and Necessary’  
 “This was among the most difficult decisions the governor
had to make shortly after assuming office,” Drewniak said in a
statement. “We know using surplus balances was a difficult step
for school districts, but it was an urgent and necessary step
amid a fiscal emergency.”  
 Perth Amboy Schools Superintendent John Rodecker didn’t
immediately respond to a message left at his office today. In an
April 19  letter  to Christie, he said that his districts faced
the second-highest cut in the state under the plan.  
 “It is inconceivable that such action could be imposed on
a district during the year which is over halfway completed,”
Rodecker said in the letter.  
 Christie’s current budget  proposal , which lawmakers must
approve by the July 1 start of the fiscal year, includes an
additional $820 million in cuts to school aid to help close a
$10.7 billion deficit caused by declining tax collections.  
 The Education Law Center, which advocates for urban
students, asked the state Supreme Court on June 8 to block the
latest round of cuts. The law center, based in Newark, is partly
funded by the state teachers’ union, which has feuded with
Christie over the reductions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        