-- Colombian Army Rescues Four Hostages Held Since 1998 by FARC Guerrillas
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-06-14T18:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/colombian-army-rescues-three-hostages-held-by-farc-rebels-since-1998.html

          
          
             Colombian armed forces rescued a
fourth hostage today in addition to the two police officers and
an army sergeant freed yesterday after being held prisoner for
more than 11 years by Marxist guerrillas.  
 General Luis Mendieta, Colonel Enrique Murillo and Sergeant
Arbey Delgado were freed during a raid by special forces on a
rebel camp in Guaviare province in southern Colombia, Defense
Minister  Gabriel Silva  said in a  statement .  
 The fourth hostage, Colonel William Donato, fled into the
jungle during the attack and was picked up by the army at about
7 a.m. today, the Defense Ministry press office said.  
 “I used to think our army was one of the best in the
world. Now I have to say it is the best in the world, without
doubt,” Donato said after arriving at the Bogota airport with
the rest of the former hostages.  
 “Operation Chameleon” took six months of planning and
none of the 300 soldiers involved in the attack were killed,
Silva said. It’s the latest blow to the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC, which captured the men in 1998. The
group has become less formidable in recent years after the army
killed senior commanders and the death of its leader and
founder,  Pedro Antonio Marin , from natural causes in 2008.  
 “I’ve been waiting for him for a long time, and today is a
blessed day for me,” Maria Teresa de Mendieta, the wife of
Mendieta, told Colombian TV. Mendieta was the highest-ranking
FARC hostage. He was a lieutenant colonel when the FARC captured
him and was promoted to general while in captivity.  
 Second Round  
 The successful raid comes ahead of the second-round vote in
Colombia’s presidential elections, scheduled for June 20. Polls
show voters favor former Defense Minister Juan Manuel  Santos 
over Antanas  Mockus , a two-time mayor of Bogota. Santos won 47
percent of the vote against 21 percent for Mockus in the first
round last month.  
 The operation will further boost support for Santos, who
was already set to easily win the election, said Claudia Lopez,
an analyst with the Electoral Observation Mission, a Bogota-
based organization that monitors Colombian elections.  
 “He would have won with or without this operation,” Lopez
said.  
 As defense minister, Santos oversaw the July 2008 rescue of
presidential candidate  Ingrid Betancourt  and three U.S.
contractors, who were also held by the FARC in Guaviare
province.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        