-- Commodities Extend Rally to One-Month High as Crude Oil, Copper, Corn Gain
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2010-06-14T21:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/commodities-extend-rally-to-one-month-high-as-crude-oil-copper-corn-gain.html

          
          
             Commodity prices jumped to the
highest level in a month amid signs that the improving economy
will boost demand for energy, metals and crops.  
 The  Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of 19 raw materials rose
1.6 percent to 259.98 in New York. Earlier, the gauge reached
260.51, the highest level since May 14. Crude oil topped $75 a
barrel, and copper capped the longest rally in five months. Gold
was the only index component to decline.  
 The  dollar  tumbled as much as 1.5 percent against a basket
of six major currencies, boosting the appeal of raw materials as
alternative investments. The euro climbed as European industrial
output in April rose more than economists forecast.  
 “The global economy is recovering,” said Oliver Pursche,
a co-portfolio manager of the GMG Defensive Beta Fund, which
invests in precious and industrial metals, excluding gold.
“There will be bumps, but the chance of double dip is very,
very small. The downside was exaggerated, and now people are
gradually expecting the economy to look up.”  
 Crude-oil futures for July delivery gained $1.34, or 1.8
percent, to $75.12 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Copper futures for July delivery rose 8.8 cents, or 3
percent, to $2.992 a pound on the Comex in New York. That marked
the fifth straight advance, the longest rally since early
January.  
 “There’s more risk appetite out there,” said  Bill O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in Upper Saddle River, New
Jersey. “That’s helping industrial commodities. All the panic
and nervousness that we saw surrounding Europe and sovereign
debt has subsided, at least for the moment.”  
 Corn prices climbed, extending the longest rally in two
months. Wheat and cattle futures also gained.  
 ‘Capacity Constraints’  
 “We continue to see demand recovering for key commodities,
like crude oil and copper, in both the developed world and
emerging markets, particularly China, which could increase the
likelihood of future capacity constraints, leaving only higher
prices to balance supply and demand,”  Andrew Karsh , a co-
manager of funds for the Credit Suisse Total Commodity Return
Strategy team, said in a report.  
 Commodities pared gains after Greece’s credit rating was
cut four levels to below investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited the country’s economic “risks.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in New York at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        