-- Companies Face Credit Downgrades as Debt Refinancing Soars: Canada Credit
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-06-14T04:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/companies-face-credit-downgrades-as-debt-refinancing-soars-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Canadian corporations face a higher
risk of debt downgrades over the next four years as they seek to
refinance C$91 billion ($88 billion) in borrowings amid
“challenging” credit conditions, Standard & Poor’s says.  
 Refinancing requirements for investment- and speculative-
grade non-financial companies will double from about C$10
billion in 2010 to an average of C$22 billion a year through
2014, according to S&P research. Refinancing needs, including
bonds and loans, will peak in four years at C$34.2 billion.  
 “A significant reduction in market access at a time when
there’s a lot of refinancing could be a factor that contributes
to a downturn in the credit cycle,”  Thomas Connell , managing
director in Toronto at S&P, said in an interview.  
 That would reverse a trend of a higher ratio of upgrades to
downgrades. S&P upgraded 15 companies this quarter in the
investment grade and high-yield sector, versus seven downgrades,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 At 2.14, that ratio in favor of upgrades is the highest
since Bloomberg started tracking the changes in 2000. On a 12-
month rolling basis, the ratio of downgrades to upgrades is
1.12, the lowest since 1998, S&P said.  
 “Things are moving in a more positive direction,” said
Toronto-based Connell. “If you look at corporations generally,
it’s much closer to even balance between upgrades and downgrades
and we haven’t seen that in quite a while.”  
 The refinancing challenge for Canadian firms reflects a
broader trend: speculative-grade companies in the U.S. face a
maturity wall of $901.4 billion in debt due through 2015 as
borrowing costs edge higher.  
 Market Appetite  
 “We saw a substantial amount of speculative-grade issuance
in the last three or four years,” said Connell. “If you see a
downturn in market appetite to take on those risks, or a
substantial widening of credit spreads for the B and BB
corporates, coupled with challenging business conditions,
there’s going to be an escalation of downgrades and defaults in
that area of the corporate sector.”  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, Nova Scotia sold C$400 million
in 4.15 percent bonds maturing in November 2019. The debt priced
to yield 92 basis points over benchmarks. Scotia Capital led the
sale, with CIBC World Markets, RBC Capital Markets and TD
Securities.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own corporate rather
than government debt widened to 154 basis points on June 11,
from 153 the day before and 114 on March 19, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index. The yield gap of Canada’s high-
yield bonds over government benchmarks widened to 583 basis
points on June 10.  
 Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said fiscal
consolidation should be Europe’s “first priority,” ahead of
promoting growth. Flaherty, who spoke to reporters after a June
11 speech in Victoria, British Columbia, also said markets are
making clear that there is a need for budget measures in Europe.  
 The three-month Canadian dealer offered rate, or  CDOR , a
proxy for the cost of bank funding over that period, rose on
June 11 to 0.846 percent, the highest since February 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        