-- Copper Futures Cap Longest Advance in Five Months After Dollar Declines
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-06-14T18:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/copper-heads-for-longest-rally-in-more-than-five-months-on-weaker-dollar.html

          
          
             Copper prices rose, capping the
longest rally five months, as the dollar’s decline spurred
demand for commodities as an alternative investment.  
 The greenback fell as much as 1.5 percent against a basket
of six currencies, after dropping 0.8 percent last week. Copper
also rose on renewed optimism the global economy will continue
to expand. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose to a four-week high.  
 “With the dollar crashing, it’s adding a boost to all the
commodities,” said  Michael K. Smith , the president of T&K
Futures & Options in Port St. Lucie, Florida. “The global
economic momentum is still positive, and demand will be
strong.”  
 Copper futures for July delivery rose 8.8 cents, or 3
percent, to $2.992 a pound on the Comex in New York, the fifth
straight gain, the longest rally since early January. The metal
climbed 3 percent last week.  
 A report showed European industrial production increased
more than economists forecast in April, easing concern a debt
crisis in the region will derail the recovery. The  MSCI World
Index  of shares gained as much as 1.8 percent.  
 “Friendly equity markets, a weaker dollar, some optimism
and bargain-hunting” lifted metals, said  Eugen Weinberg , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  
 Copper has dropped 11 percent this year as Greece, Spain
and Portugal struggled with budget gaps and China moved to cool
its property market.  
 Copper for delivery in three months advanced 2.8 percent to
$6,660 a metric ton ($3.02 a pound) on the London Metal
Exchange. Aluminum, tin, nickel, lead and zinc prices also
gained.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        