-- Corporate Bond Risk Falls in Europe as Output Growth Boosts Recovery Bets
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-06-14T10:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-as-output-growth-boosts-recovery-bets.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on European corporate bonds fell for a fourth day as  industrial
production  in the region grew more than forecast, adding to
signs the global economy is recovering.  
 The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 24
basis points to 573.5, the lowest level in a week, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Output in the euro area rose for an 11th month as policy
makers maintain programs to aid financial stability and economic
growth. Investor confidence is being underpinned by the European
Central Bank’s purchases of sovereign debt and pledges by the
Federal Reserve to act as needed to support recovery.  
 “While we remain cautious for credits overall, including
corporates, the technical bid due to ample liquidity provided by
central banks is however supportive, with no conceivable end in
the near future,” said  Markus Ernst , a Munich-based strategist
at UniCredit SpA.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings declined 4.5 basis points to 125.25,
JPMorgan prices show.  
 Industrial production grew 0.8 percent in April, the
European Union said, compared with forecasts of 0.5 percent.
Output at factories, mines and utilities in the U.S. increased
0.8 percent in May, according to a survey before the Fed
releases figures on June 16.  
 The cost of insuring against default on bank bonds declined
with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of the senior debt of 25
banks and insurers down 8 basis points to 162, the lowest level
in two weeks, and the subordinated gauge 13 lower at 248.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($12.2 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        