-- Cuomo, Would-Be N.Y. Governor, Gets Tough When Foes Say No
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-06-14T15:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/cuomo-as-new-york-s-would-be-governor-shows-what-happens-when-foes-say-no.html

          
          
             New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo , the Democratic candidate for governor who has challenged
legislators to join his plan to clean up state government, has a
history of getting what he wants.  
 Quadrangle Group LLC, the  New York -based money management
firm co-founded by  Steven Rattner , was among the latest to
experience Cuomo’s style of conflict resolution. When Rattner
declined to settle on Cuomo’s terms in the probe of his role in
state pension fund corruption, the would-be governor made
Rattner pay a price.  
 The settlement, publicly announced on April 15, included a
 statement  by Quadrangle disavowing its former leader and
asserting that Rattner’s conduct in gaining $100 million in fund
business was “inappropriate, wrong and unethical.” The
statement  originated with Cuomo’s office, which required New
York-based Quadrangle to make it in order to settle, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  
 Voters have made Cuomo the frontrunner for governor in the
latest polls, embracing such tough tactics, which some legal
ethics experts have criticized.  
 “The public is interested in taking some action against
people who seem to get away with everything -- the insurance
industry, Wall Street and corrupt public officials,” said
political consultant  Hank Sheinkopf , who ran campaigns for
former state Comptroller H.  Carl McCall  and Cuomo’s predecessor
 Eliot Spitzer , who later became governor. “Andrew Cuomo will be
someone to be reckoned with.”  
 Cuomo Comment  
 Cuomo spokesman  John Milgrim  declined to comment on the
Rattner probe because it’s still active. Andy Merrill, a
spokesman for Quadrangle, which didn’t admit wrongdoing,
declined to comment. Rattner, who resigned during Cuomo’s probe
as the Obama administration’s chief adviser on restructuring the
auto industry, declined to comment.  
 Until this year, Quadrangle handled the finances of New
York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, whom Rattner supported through his
chairmanship of Democrats for Bloomberg during the 2005 re-
election campaign. Bloomberg is the majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  
 Spitzer , 51, also a Democrat, had a record of similar
tactics that produced high public approval ratings. When he
became governor in 2007, Spitzer promised to be a
“steamroller” to get things done. He declined to comment on
any comparison of him and Cuomo.  
 Spitzer’s style worked until his uncompromising advocacy of
unpopular measures, such as drivers’ licenses for illegal
immigrants, put him at loggerheads with Albany lawmakers. A
call-girl scandal forced him to resign in March 2008.  
 Cuomo Signs  
 Cuomo, 52, has given signs he too might get pushy if
elected governor. In a May 22 speech announcing his candidacy,
he called on statehouse candidates to say during the campaign
whether, if elected, they will support his plan to fix a
government system he called a “national disgrace.”  
 “We want to know how the candidates for the state
legislature are going to vote on key issues and we want to know
now,” he said in the speech.  
 Cuomo’s plan, the “New NY Agenda,” calls for full
disclosure of legislators’ income, a new campaign-finance law, a
reduction in lobbyists’ influence, a freeze on state spending, a
cap on taxes, a reduction in the number of state agencies and a
constitutional convention to rewrite laws the legislature had
refused to address.  
 About 40 of the 684 lawyers in the attorney general’s
office focus on investor and consumer matters, work that has
generated most of the favorable reviews of him. When Cuomo took
office in 2007, he told this group to find situations that hurt
citizens and fix them, Milgrim said. Their marching orders were
to seek quick, industrywide settlements, he said.  
 Public Negotiations  
 To get deals, Cuomo sometimes negotiates in public, putting
a spotlight on both the danger to investors or consumers as well
as the parties allegedly causing it, rather than probing the
matter in private as federal prosecutors or regulators often do.  
 That’s what happened with Facebook Inc. In Cuomo’s first
year in office, his investigators set up an undercover operation
to see how safe the Palo Alto, California-based social
networking company’s website was for minors. After posing as
underage girls, Cuomo’s investigators made complaints,
pretending to be mothers of girls, about actual communications
sent by sexual predators.  
 Getting what his office regarded as an insufficient
response, Cuomo sent a publicly disclosed letter to Facebook
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  on Sept. 24, 2007,
saying the company might be violating New York’s business law by
misrepresenting how safe facebook.com was.  
 Slow Response  
 Cuomo cited evidence that underage users “are targeted by
sexual predators,” that there is “widespread pornographic and
obscene content” on Facebook and that the response to
complaints was “slow, sporadic and inconsistent.”  
 He attached a subpoena demanding information on Facebook’s
security and complaint-resolution policies. Three weeks later,
the Palo Alto, California-based company settled, promising to
look into complaints within 24 hours and to hire an examiner to
monitor compliance with the two-year accord.  
 Orin Snyder , outside counsel for Facebook, said he
preferred the letter and subpoena to a lawsuit.  
 “A letter and a subpoena is an olive branch to engage in
dialog,” he said. “A lawsuit is a punch in the nose.”  
 SLM Corp., the largest U.S. student-loan company, was
resisting Cuomo’s efforts to end what he called sweetheart
arrangements between lenders and schools that resulted in
borrower overcharges. Cuomo got on the phone around midnight
with W.  Neil Eggleston , a Washington lawyer representing the
company, which is known as Sallie Mae, according to Milgrim.  
 ‘Your Options’  
 “These are your options,” Cuomo told Eggleston, according
to Milgrim. “One is do the deal and we will praise you tomorrow
and you will be seen as an industry leader for new, good
conduct. Option B is, if you don’t sign on, you will not be seen
as a leader for reform, we will come back around to you later,
and ultimately we could end up in litigation.”  
 Sallie Mae took option A without admitting wrongdoing.  
 Martha Holler , a spokeswoman for Sallie Mae, declined to
comment. Eggleston didn’t return calls for comment.  
 Cuomo’s approach to settlements has supporters and
detractors.  
 “I felt the Cuomo administration was aggressive but
fair,” said New York attorney  Dan Horwitz , who said he had
handled several cases before the office and co-hosted a
fundraiser for Cuomo in April.  
 Good Hires  
 Zachary Carter , a former U.S. Attorney in Brooklyn who was
on Cuomo’s transition team for attorney general, also praised
Cuomo’s work, pointing out that he hired a staff of talented
lawyers, many of them former federal prosecutors.  
 Bennett Gershman, an authority on prosecutorial misconduct
at Pace Law School in White Plains, New York, questioned the
Quadrangle statement on Rattner.  
 “I don’t know how these gratuitous condemnations serve any
purpose except to smear the nonsettling party,” he said in an
interview. “I think it’s improper.”  
 Milgrim declined to comment on Gershman’s view.  
 Cuomo was aided in his crackdown on corporate wrongdoing by
New York’s powerful securities-fraud law, the Martin Act, as was
Spitzer before him. Since taking office in 2007, Cuomo has used
the act to launch investigations of UBS AG, Citigroup Inc. and
other underwriters of auction-rate securities, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac over mortgage loans they purchased, and alleged
fraud in connection with Bank of America Corp.’s acquisition of
Merrill Lynch & Co.  
 No Proof  
 The statute, which permits Cuomo to sue or charge people
criminally and doesn’t require proof of fraudulent intent, gives
him leverage to pressure people and companies to sign up for
settlements he proposes. The Martin Act gives the attorney
general the power to deny subpoenaed witnesses a transcript of
their testimony before trial and to make subpoenas public.  
 Cuomo’s Martin Act powers are like those of federal
prosecutors or regulators in the early stages of an
investigation, Milgrim said.  
 Charles Schwab Corp. , the subject of an investigation by
Cuomo over auction-rate securities, said in a letter made public
in August that his office took “one-sided testimony” from
witnesses and that company lawyers weren’t allowed to ask
questions or get a transcript.  
 Cuomo alleged that Schwab sold the securities as if they
were cash-like investments when in fact they were so risky that
the market in them eventually froze. Cuomo announced his intent
to sue the company in July. The probe remains unresolved.  
 ‘Enormous Pressure’  
 “There is enormous pressure on any entity that is publicly
traded or that depends on its reputation to accrue capital, to
resolve these kinds of cases,” said  Faith Gay , a lawyer with
Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP who represents Schwab.  
 Cuomo sued San Francisco-based Schwab after the company
said it wouldn’t agree to a “prepackaged resolution that
unfairly punishes it” for events over which it had no control.  
 “Even if you have a leg to stand on, you may decide it’s
just not worth it,” Gay said in an interview.  
 Contesting Cuomo’s allegations was in the best interest of
shareholders and the company’s reputation, Schwab said in July.  
 Schwab’s comments on the fraud suit Cuomo filed against it
are “not surprising,” Milgrim said. “Beyond that, the lawsuit
and the court record speaks for itself,” he said.  
 Produced Changes  
 Cuomo’s approach has  produced changes  in business
practices. His probe of the $85 billion student-loan industry
resulted in adoption of a code of conduct by 22 lenders and 28
colleges and universities. The code obliges them to cut
financial ties and forbid payments and perks from lenders
seeking business.  
 His investigation of how health insurers reimburse patients
for out-of-network services resulted in an industry payment of
almost $100 million to fund a nonprofit database to determine
what is “reasonable and customary” for such services.  
 Cuomo’s pension fund probe uncovered a national network of
politically connected persons who made millions of dollars
arranging for private-equity firms to invest public pension-fund
money. Fifteen firms have agreed to a Cuomo code of conduct
banning so-called placement agents and limiting campaign
contributions to those with the power to assign investment
business.  
 Six people have pleaded guilty to criminal charges.  Hank Morris , the former political consultant Cuomo claims is at the
center of the case, has pleaded not guilty and awaits trial.  
 Latest Poll  
 Cuomo was rated favorably by 59 percent of registered
voters questioned by Siena College in a poll released today and
had a 2-to-1 lead over his Republican opponents. A Marist poll
in May showed an approval rating of 64 percent.  
 His vigorous management of good and bad publicity about him
may have contributed to that result. Cuomo regularly uses
teleconferences for major announcements rather than press
conferences, allowing him more control over any off-message
questions through offline screening. His staff has also called
outside experts quoted in news reports to disagree with their
comments, including Gershman following a Bloomberg News story
that included his remarks.  
 Those who called had a right to make their views known,
Milgrim said.  
 Cuomo has taken a more conciliatory approach when it was
necessary to reach a consensus to enact legislation, a crucial
skill for any governor. He helped secure passage of a law that
permits voters to propose consolidating inefficient local
governments, a change the state legislature and local officials
resisted for two decades, Milgrim said.  
 Sold It Well  
 “He sold it very well, and it reflected political skills
on his part,” said E.J. McMahon, an Albany-based fiscal analyst
with the Manhattan Institute, a business-funded, conservative
policy research group.  
 Similarly, Cuomo got Albany lawmakers to approve changes on
school-loan laws to reflect his code of conduct and testified in
support of a federal law to do the same.  
 Cuomo has had a lifetime to learn the ways of New York
politics, according to  Doug Muzzio , professor of public affairs
at Baruch College in New York. The son of three-term former
Governor  Mario Cuomo , he served as his father’s campaign manager
and top aide. He was also briefly a prosecutor and served as
U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under President
 Bill Clinton . He made a failed run for governor in 2002.  
 Muzzio said that Cuomo’s background makes it less likely
he’ll will run into the same obstacles that slowed Spitzer’s
“steamroller.”  
 “Andrew has an understanding and a feel for politics that
Spitzer did not have,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Voters have made Andrew Cuomo the frontrunner for governor in the latest polls, embracing  the tough tactics some legal ethics experts have criticized. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 24 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Cuomo, attorney general of the third most-populous state through scandals that tarred two Democratic governors, said he’s running for New York’s top office, three months after his leading rival dropped out. Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
