-- CVS Caremark to Buy Back Up to $2 Billion in Shares as Cash Flow Improves
-- Carol Wolf
-- 2010-06-14T20:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/cvs-caremark-to-buy-back-up-to-2-billion-in-shares-as-cash-flow-improves.html

          
          
             CVS Caremark Corp. , the largest U.S.
provider of prescription drugs, plans to buy back as much as $2
billion of its outstanding stock, rewarding  investors  as it
forecasts increased  cash flow  over the next five years.  
 The program begins immediately and will expire at the end
of 2011, the Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based company said today
in a statement. CVS Caremark repurchased $613 million shares in
the second quarter, completing a $2 billion authorization
program begun in November.  
 The shares had dropped 14 percent in the two months before
today, amid government investigations into its business
practices and a dispute with  Walgreen Co. , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain. CVS Caremark said today it expects to generate
“significantly” more free cash flow than it has since 2005.  
 The stock price “has taken a hit over the past few weeks
as the market attempts to factor in the impact of the Walgreen’s
issues,” said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate
credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. “The repurchase
is one way to highlight the company’s long-term strengths.”  
 CVS Caremark  dropped 21 cents to $31.87 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have fallen
1.1 percent this year.  
 The company said Nov. 5 that the Federal Trade Commission
was probing some of its business practices and more than 20
states have since said they are scrutinizing the practices as
well.  
 Walgreen Dispute  
 Walgreen said June 7 it would stop participating in new
prescription-drug plans awarded to CVS Caremark’s pharmacy-
benefit manager. Two days later, CVS Caremark said it planned to
cut Walgreen out of its retail pharmacy network.  
 CVS Caremark plans to return the majority of its free cash
flow to investors through dividends and share buybacks, Chief
Financial Officer  Dave Denton  said in the statement.  
 The company’s free cash flow has risen to $1.49 billion as
of Dec. 31, from $116.7 million at end of 2005, excluding
proceeds from leaseback transactions.  
 CVS Caremark announced plans to increase its quarterly
payout by 15 percent in January.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carol Wolf  in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        