-- Czech Policy Maker Zamrazilova Says Rates May Go Up Early If Revival Holds
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-06-14T14:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/czech-policy-maker-zamrazilova-says-rates-may-go-up-early-if-revival-holds.html

          
          
             The Czech central bank may consider
increasing interest rates before the end of the year if economic
recovery is stronger than forecast, policy maker  Eva Zamrazilova 
said.  
 The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka unexpectedly cut the
benchmark two-week interest rate on May 6 by a quarter-point to
0.75 percent, below the European Central Bank’s main rate,
saying inflation will be under its 2 percent target in 12 to 18
months. It also signaled that rates may be steady until end-2010
and start rising in 2011 when economic growth should accelerate
to 1.8 percent from 1.4 percent forecast for this year.  
 “Interest rates are extremely low and the question now is
how long a time period is ideal for this setting,” Zamrazilova,
who wasn’t at the May meeting, said in an interview on June 10
and cleared for publication today. “The time is coming to think
proactively about the timing of starting to increase rates.”  
 The Czech economy expanded on an annual basis in the first
three months for the first time in five quarters, with  gross
domestic product  growing 1.1 percent from a year earlier after a
3.2 percent contraction in the previous quarter, the statistics
office said on June 9. Separate data showed the inflation rate
rose to 1.2 percent in May, from 1.1 percent in the previous
month, above the central bank’s forecast of 0.9 percent.  
 Recovery Signs  
 East European countries are emerging from the worst
recession since the end of communism. Trade is picking up after
the credit crisis curbed investments and companies cut jobs. The
Czech Republic, home to Skoda Auto AS and Hyundai Motor Co.
plants, gained from a pickup in demand in the euro area, its
main trading partner, though risks remain if the recovery in the
16-nation currency-area sputters.  
 “The latest statistics, and the signals coming from the
Czech economy, show that the recovery is under way,”
Zamrazilova said. “Of course, as we had anticipated, the
recovery is driven mainly by foreign demand because of the
nature of our small and open economy.”  
 The koruna appreciated as much as 0.6 percent and traded up
0.4 percent at 25.639 per euro as of 4 p.m. in Prague. A close
at that level would be its strongest this month.  
 The Czech Republic country had its 16th consecutive trade
 surplus  in April and industrial  output  rose to a 30-month high,
driven by car production. Auto-industry output grew 29 percent
in the first quarter and sales abroad increased 23 percent. Data
showed on June 8 that the  unemployment  rate dropped to a six-
month low in May.  
 Next Forecast  
 “What will be important is the next forecast at the
beginning of August as this will show whether the recovery is
confirmed,” said Zamrazilova. “If the recovery is faster than
expected in previous forecasts, then from my personal point of
view, it would imply that rates may increase faster than
currently anticipated, possibly before the end of the year.”  
 GDP data showed a revival in household consumption, which
may point to stronger inflation risks than the central bank had
expected,  Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Ceska Sporitelna, the
Czech unit of Erste Group Bank AG, said on June 9.  
 “Household consumption is still in negative territory on
an annual basis, but the decline isn’t as significant as
expected, so it shouldn’t be a strong constraint for economic
growth as may have been expected,” said Zamrazilova. “This is
underscored by the latest statistics from the labor market which
show a decline in the unemployment rate, which also wasn’t
expected.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        