-- Deutsche Bank Said to Be Poised to Name Jain Sole Head of Investment Bank
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-06-15T11:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/deutsche-bank-said-to-be-poised-to-name-jain-sole-head-of-investment-bank.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest
bank, plans this week to name  Anshu Jain  the sole head of the
corporate and investment bank, the company’s biggest money
maker, two people familiar with the matter said.  
 Jain, 47, will take over responsibilities for the corporate
finance and transaction banking units from  Michael Cohrs , 53,
who plans to retire, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. An announcement may be
made as early as today, one of the people said.  
 Jain helped build Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank into a
bond-market powerhouse since being named co-head of the
investment bank in 2004, and is considered a possible successor
to Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , whose contract runs
until 2013. The investment-banking unit generated more than 90
percent of group profit in the first quarter, buoyed by Jain’s
sales and trading division.  
 “Jain has earned the promotion after effectively expanding
sales and trading and becoming the biggest profit driver,” said
 Manfred Jakob , a Frankfurt-based analyst at SEB AG, who
recommends buying the shares. “He’s definitely among the
candidates to succeed Ackermann.”  
 Ackermann, 62, unexpectedly agreed in April 2009 to extend
his tenure until 2013 after the supervisory board failed to
agree on a successor. The Swiss-born CEO said last week he plans
to fulfill his contract because he wants to help reshape the
financial regulatory system after the crisis.  
 Deutsche Bank spokesman  Armin Niedermeier  declined to
comment on the company’s personnel moves.  
 Investment-Banking Rebound  
 Jain led a turnaround at the investment bank in 2009, a
year after the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression
pummeled stock and bond trading and led to Deutsche Bank’s first
 annual loss  in more than 50 years. He cut assets by about 50
percent at the global markets unit and shut credit proprietary
trading to curb risk amid the financial crisis.  
 Deutsche Bank  gained  1.7 percent to 49.37 euros by 12:37
p.m. in Frankfurt trading, leaving the stock almost unchanged
for the year. The  Bloomberg Europe  Banks and Financial Services
Index, which tracks 52 companies, rose 0.6 percent today.  
 Jain plans to spend about 1.6 billion euros on hiring and
technology for the global markets unit in the next two years to
break into the top five in commodities and U.S. cash equities.
While the fixed-income division accounts for about 80 percent of
sales and trading revenue, Jain also reorganized the equities
unit and posted the best result since 2007 in the first quarter.  
 Edson Mitchell  
 Jain, born in Jaipur in India’s Rajasthan state, joined
Deutsche Bank in 1995 from Merrill Lynch & Co., following his
mentor Edson Mitchell to the German bank. After the 47-year-old
Mitchell died in a plane crash before Christmas in 2000, Jain
took over as head of debt. He was picked to run the combined
debt and equity sales and trading unit in 2004.  
 Jain, with four other executives, joined Deutsche Bank’s
management board in April 2009. The other appointments included
Cohrs,  Rainer Neske , 45, the head of private and business
clients, and regional management chief  Juergen Fitschen , 61.  
 Deutsche Bank aims to double pretax profit at the operating
businesses by 2011 to 10 billion euros from 2009, helped by
gains in investment banking and Asia. Jain’s investment-banking
unit is forecast to earn 6.3 billion euros in profit next year.  
 Cohrs, who has run corporate and investment banking with
Jain since 2004, is retiring after 15 years at the bank, people
familiar with his plans said earlier this month. He is leaving
after helping the German lender move into the top five in
mergers and acquisitions globally this year.  
 Cohrs, an American who has an MBA from Harvard University,
has been preparing new leaders within his global banking group
since the end of last year. He appointed  Stephan Leithner , 44,
and  Jacques Brand , 49, as co-heads of global coverage in October
to oversee the firm’s investment bankers. He made M&A co-head
 Brett Olsher , 49, chairman of the global clients executive
committee, in charge of leading relationships and transactions
with clients.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Deutsche Bank said to name Jain head of investment bank  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Anshu Jain who is said to take over responsibilities from Michael Cohrs. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Anshu Jain who is said to take over responsibilities from Michael Cohrs. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
