-- Deutsche Post Rises on Report of $1.2 Billion Savings Program at Mail Unit
-- Cornelius Rahn
-- 2010-06-14T17:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/deutsche-post-shares-surge-on-report-company-speeding-up-cost-cutting-plan.html

          
          
             Deutsche Post AG , Europe’s biggest
postal service, rose to the highest level in four weeks in
Frankfurt after WirtschaftsWoche reported that the German
company plans to save 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) at its mail
unit.  
 The target, set for the next 12 months, is about five times
more than previously projected, according to the weekly
magazine. The postal mail carrier may shift jobs to its First
Mail unit which offers lower pay, and former unit  Deutsche
Postbank AG  could pay more than 100 million euros for 277 of the
350 postal outlets Bonn-based Deutsche Post may sell, the
magazine said.  
 Deutsche Post spokesman  Rolf Schulz  declined to comment on
the savings plan. The mail carrier is trying to replace direct
management at its outlets with a partnership model by the end of
2011, he said by telephone, adding that ceasing mail delivery on
Saturdays, as reported by WortschaftsWoche, is “not at issue at
all” because of a legal requirement.  
 Deutsche Post is relying on growth at its DHL express-
package and freight division to counter declining sales at the
mail unit. Chief Financial Officer  Lawrence Rosen  said on a May
11 conference call that Deutsche Post has no plans to separate
mail from express delivery, forecasting mail revenue to shrink
by 3 percent this year.  
 ‘Good News’  
 Deutsche Post  rose  17.5 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 12.31
euros, the highest price since May 18. The shares are down 8.7
percent this year, valuing the company at 14.9 billion euros.  
 “This would be good news, but it’s not clear how much of
this program would contribute to earnings,” said  Robert Heberger , an analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in Munich with a
“buy” recommendation on the shares. “It may take until the
third quarter before the plan gets underway and I don’t know
whether the savings target could be achieved within one year
from that.”  
 Postbank is in talks with Deutsche Post on taking over some
of the mail deliverer’s branches, Postbank spokesman  Joachim Strunk  said by phone. He declined to say how many outlets may be
transferred.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        