-- Embassy Group Said to Plan $500 Million Real Estate Share Sale in Mumbai
-- Ruth David
-- 2010-06-14T12:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/developer-embassy-group-said-to-plan-500-million-initial-share-offering.html

          
          
             Embassy Group, an Indian property
developer, plans to raise about $500 million in an initial
public offering, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  
 Embassy, based in Bangalore, may seek approval from the
capital-markets regulator within two weeks to sell the shares,
the people said, declining to be identified before an official
announcement. The company picked  Citigroup Inc. , Nomura Holdings
Inc. and UBS AG to manage the IPO, they said.  
 Embassy may face competition for investors’ cash from
rivals including  Lodha Developers Ltd.  and Sahara Prime City
Ltd., as at least nine developers await regulatory approval to
raise money, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Bombay
Stock Exchange Realty Index  has lost 22 percent this year,
compared with a less than 1 percent drop in the Sensitive Index.  
 The developer’s Chairman Jitendra Virwani didn’t
immediately return calls and messages left at his office.
 Debasis Ghosh , a spokesman for Citigroup in Mumbai, UBS’s Hong
Kong-based spokesman  Mark Panday  and  Nandini Goswami  at Nomura
in Mumbai declined to comment.  
 “While developer stock prices are still 80 percent off
their peaks, physical markets (residential) are at near-peak
levels both in terms of volumes and pricing,”  Saurabh Kumar , an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report on June 1.
“This sharp discount to physical market presents a buying
opportunity.”  
 Mixed Debuts  
 Companies including developer  Emaar MGF Land Ltd. , which in
March won approval from regulators to list its shares, are
awaiting a revival in appetite for stocks before tapping
investors for funds. The three companies that earlier this year
ended a two-year drought in realty IPOs have since posted a
mixed performance.  
 Mumbai-based  Godrej Properties Ltd. , which raised 4.69
billion rupees in December, has gained 5.3 percent since its
trading debut. DB Realty Ltd., also based in Mumbai, has fallen
16 percent since it listed its shares after raising 15 billion
rupees in February. Bangalore-based Nitesh Estates Ltd. has
slumped 31 percent since it began trading last month after a
4.05 billion rupee IPO.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        