-- Disney Will Put ESPN3.com Sports Programs on Microsoft's Xbox Live Service
-- Andy Fixmer
-- 2010-06-14T20:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/disney-to-put-espn3-com-sports-programs-on-microsoft-s-xbox-live-service.html

          
          
             Walt Disney Co.  will make its ESPN3
online sports channel available on  Microsoft Corp. ’s Xbox video
game console, extending the programming to users’ televisions.  
 Xbox Live subscribers who pay $50 a year and whose Internet
provider pays to carry ESPN3.com can now access the programming,
Marc Whitten, general manager of Xbox Live, said today at the E3
video-game conference in Los Angeles.  
 ESPN3’s live video of 3,500 events, including Major League
Baseball, soccer, college football and basketball games, will be
available to Xbox Live Gold Members, Whitten said. Financial
terms weren’t disclosed. Broadcast and cable channels are
seeking new ways to reach viewers migrating to the Web and video
games for entertainment.  
 “Our fan base wants to be on all these screens, not just
one,”  Matthew Murphy , senior vice president of digital video
distribution for Disney and ESPN networks, said in an interview.
“We want to provide access to our content in as many places as
possible.”  
 ESPN3.com is available to Internet subscribers of  Comcast
Corp. , AT&T Inc., Cox Communications Inc. and 57 other
providers, Amy Phillips, an ESPN spokeswoman, said in an
interview. The Internet video service, which is carrying World
Cup soccer matches, reaches 50 million homes through existing
contracts, she said.  
 Disney, the world’s biggest media company, fell 31 cents to
$33.93 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . Shares of the Burbank, California-based company have
advanced 5.2 percent this year.  
 Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, retreated 17 cents
to $25.50 on the Nasdaq Stock Market and has declined 16
percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        