-- Drugmaker Genmab Surges After Analyst Sparks Speculation About a Glaxo Bid
-- Frances Schwartzkopff
-- 2010-06-14T16:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/drugmaker-genmab-surges-after-analyst-sparks-speculation-about-a-glaxo-bid.html

          
          
             Genmab A/S  rose the most in almost a
decade in Copenhagen trading after an analyst said the
biotechnology company is undervalued, making it a takeover
target for  GlaxoSmithKline Plc .  
 “The stock value is so low it makes sense for GSK to make
an offer for the entire company,”  Peter Aabo , founder of
 BiotekAnalyse , said today by phone.  AktieUgebrevet ApS  published
Aabo’s analysis of Copenhagen-based Genmab today in its weekly
investor newsletter.  
 Genmab’s  cash and short-term investments  equal almost half
its market value of about 2.6 billion kroner ($431.2 million),
indicating the market is undervaluing the company, Aabo said.
Data for its experimental cancer treatment zalutumumab are
probably strong enough to lead to U.S. approval either next year
or in 2012, he said. An acquirer probably would offer 150 kroner
to 200 kroner a share, Aabo said. At the higher price, a bid
would value Genmab at as much as 9 billion kroner.  
 Genmab gained 14.44 kroner, or 33 percent, to close at
58.15 kroner. The gain was the biggest ever for the company,
which sold shares in an initial public offering in October 2000.
Genmab has never posted an annual profit.  
 “This is just a story that has been around for very long
time,” said  Henrik Aagaard-Jensen , a sales trader at Jyske Bank
A/S in Silkeborg, Denmark. “We don’t believe that Glaxo would
make a bid as they have partnership agreements with Genmab in
place.”  
 Claire Brough , a spokeswoman at Glaxo, which owns a stake
of just below 10 percent in the company, declined to comment.
 Helle Husted , a spokeswoman for Genmab, declined to comment on
whether it had been approached by Glaxo, citing the company’s
communication policy.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Frances Schwartzkopff  at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        