-- Dubai State-Owned Companies May Face More Debt Restructuring, Moody's Says
-- Heidi Couch
-- 2010-06-14T13:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/dubai-state-owned-companies-may-face-more-debt-restructuring-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             Dubai’s state-owned companies may
have to restructure more borrowings as the debt-laden Gulf
business hub struggles to pay loans over the next 12 to 18
months, Moody’s Investors Service said.  
 “We wouldn’t rule out restructurings in other parts of
Dubai Inc.,”  Tristan Cooper , an analyst at Moody’s said in an
interview in Abu Dhabi today. Dubai World, one of the emirate’s
three main state-owned business groups, said on May 20 it
reached an agreement with a group of creditors to restructure
$23.5 billion of liabilities.  
 “In the short-term, it’s really a question of dealing with
maturities as they come due, whether that’s by extending the
maturities as they have done in the case of Dubai World, or by
lowering coupon payments,” Cooper said.  
 The Dubai government and its state-owned companies have
racked up $109.3 billion of debt and about $15.5 billion is due
this year, according to International Monetary Fund estimates,
as it pursued a drive to transform itself into a tourism and
financial services hub. The emirate’s economy will shrink about
0.5 percent this year, the  IMF  said May 25, a second-year of
contraction.  
 Dubai Holding Debt  
 “Without returning to a strong level of growth in Dubai,
it will be difficult for the government and wider Dubai Inc.
companies to sustain what remains a very high debt burden,”
Cooper said.  
 Dubai Holding LLC, a company owned by Dubai ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid  Al-Maktoum, and its units owe banks $12
billion and have begun talks to roll over some loans, a person
with knowledge of the matter said on May 10. Dubai International
Capital LLC, an investment unit of Dubai Holding with a $1.25
billion loan due in June, sought a three-month extension on some
of its payments on May 27.  
 Gulf Arab companies have $28 billion of debt maturing in
2012, about a fifth of the estimated $145 billion debt
outstanding among companies of the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, Moody’s said earlier in an e-mailed statement.  
 Dubai-based companies have $10.4 billion of obligations
maturing that same year, according to Moody’s. The emirate had
to borrow $20 billion from Abu Dhabi to help state-owned
companies pay debt.  
 “Wall of Maturing Debt”  
 “The 2012 wall of maturing debt poses a major challenge
for GCC corporates,”  Martin Kohlhase , an analyst at Moody’s
Middle East in Dubai, wrote in the e-mailed report. “The
majority of this maturing debt is held by entities based in
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, especially investment holding companies and
real estate developers and related companies.”  
 The GCC includes the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait, Oman, Bahrain and Qatar.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
 Heidi Couch  in Dubai at 
 hcouch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        