-- Money Managers May Face New Tax Increase: Clifford S. Asness
-- Editors: [bn:PRSN=1] James Greiff []
-- 2010-06-14T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/hedge-funds-may-face-different-tax-increase-clifford-s-asness.html

          
          
             Next week the Senate will likely
pass a massive spending program called the American Jobs and
Closing Tax Loopholes  Act  of 2010.  
 Since it’s now deemed unacceptable to simply tack another
$112 billion onto the  deficit , Congress needs to offset this
spending with a bit of revenue from new sources, this time with
a precedent-setting tax on the sale of certain small businesses.  
 With the administration already committed to raising income
taxes, the estate tax, and with the gears already turning for a
value-added tax, attention momentarily has turned to one group
of small businesses: investment partnerships. Why this group in
particular? Most likely it is due to their connections to Wall
Street (they’re customers, but not banks) and the fact that some
of them receive favorable tax treatment for a portion (sometimes
a very small portion) of their income.  
 Under the bill, part of a particular type of income earned
by some investment firms, known as carried interest, might be
taxed at the 35 percent rate for earned income compared with the
15 percent capital-gains rate they now pay. Fighting this change
isn’t our purpose here. Whether carried-interest income should
be taxed as ordinary income or as capital gains is a subject of
legitimate debate, typical of any business taxation issue.  
 The practical problem for Congress is that the carried-
interest tax increase is “scored” by the  Joint Committee on
Taxation  to raise only one quarter of the $19 billion or so
Congress hopes to raise from these businesses. That is just not
enough for their spending desires.  
 Enterprise-Value Tax  
 The remaining amount supposedly would come from a so-called
enterprise-value tax, a new taxation plan whereby owners of
investment partnerships that have ever earned as little as $1 of
carried-interest income would become subject to ordinary income
tax rather than the capital-gains tax rate on the future sale of
any portion of their business. This would be a more than
doubling of the tax on their long-term value creation.  
 Note this is not a tax on carried-interest income; but even
generating $1 of carried-interest income causes the enterprise
tax to kick in.  
 It’s a pure tax on business value. This would establish a
tax for owners of investment-management firms that is different
from all other U.S. businesses, which now pay tax when they are
sold at the capital-gains rate. While this tax regime would
apply to investment partnerships today, this sets a dangerous
precedent for all businesses that might be subject to future
political disfavor or have value that can be turned into
government revenue.  
 Important to Some  
 The favorable treatment of carried interest-income is
indeed economically important to some investment managers,
including many private-equity and venture-capital fund managers.
But carried-interest income is inconsequential to many others,
including institutional money managers. Yet these firms would
suddenly be subject to the new business value tax.  
 The new tax would also capture a wide range of family and
other closely held businesses, often conducted in partnership
form. It forces the enterprise-value tax on all of the above
such that business owners who have derived trivial benefit from
carried-interest income may see the tax more than double on the
sale of the business they have devoted their working lives to
building, while tax rates remain the same for every other type
of business in America.  
 Discouraging Investment  
 At best, this is a retroactive tax that will discourage
investment in an important industry. At worst, it is a job-
creation program for global competitors in an industry
historically dominated by U.S. firms. For investment managers
who have never substantially benefited from carried interest, it
is simply blatant expropriation from a class currently out of
political favor.  
 Once passed, Congress will see how easy it is to play
divide and conquer, singling out small businesses one at a time
for special tax treatment. The need for tax revenue is only
growing and should the enterprise-value tax pass, no small
business ought to feel safe.  
 This legislation may well prove to be the stalking horse
for an effort to eliminate capital gains eligibility for the
sale of all businesses. If this tax remains applicable to only
one business type it’s utterly unfair and indefensible. If it is
broadened to apply to more or all small businesses down the
road, it will destroy jobs and hobble small-business creation.  
 ( Clifford S. Asness  is the managing and founding principal
of AQR Capital Management LLC.  Michael Mendelson  is a principal
and Brendan R. Kalb is co-general counsel at AQR. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  
 For Related News and Information:
More Bloomberg columns: NI COLUMNS <GO> or OPED <GO>
Hedge fund news: HEDN <GO>
Top financial industry news: FTOP <GO>
More guest op-eds: NI GUESTOPED <GO>
  
          
          


  


        