-- Hedge Fund Manager Irwin Sees Value in Resource Companies, Gene Simmons
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/hedge-fund-manager-irwin-sees-value-in-resources-rock-star-gene-simmons.html

          
          
             Hedge-fund manager  Warren Irwin 
isn’t fussy when it comes to finding growth opportunities for
his Rosseau LP, which has the best five-year return among 80
funds in its class worldwide, according to  BarclayHedge Ltd.   
 Irwin has invested in high-yield bonds, distressed
securities, short positions and equities in several industries.
His portfolio now consists almost entirely of energy and mining
stocks such as Paramount Resources Ltd.  
 “We see governments around the world printing money, and
the value of paper money is being devalued every day, so we want
to be in real assets,” said Irwin, 46, whose C$200 million
($193 million) fund has risen 11-fold since its inception in
1999.  
 Rosseau last month invested C$5 million in Condor Petroleum
Inc., a privately held oil exploration company with operations
in Kazakhstan. Osisko Mining Corp. executives  Sean Roosen  and
 John Burzynski , who Irwin said are “winners keen to make money
for investors,” are on Condor’s board and own stakes in the
company’s largest shareholder.  
 Rosseau lost nearly half of its gains in late 2007 and 2008
as it misread the bottom of the market and waited too long to
reduce some of its base-metals holdings, Irwin said. Since then,
the Toronto-based fund has more than doubled, with investments
in energy companies including  Paramount Resources  and Athabasca
Oil Sands Corp. and materials producers such as Colossus
Minerals Inc. Rosseau’s five-year annual return is 28 percent,
tops among so-called event-driven hedge funds.  
 Joining the Tour  
 Irwin said he’s always been interested in the resource
industry. In the 1990s, as a director of special investments for
Deutsche Bank, he sneaked onto Bre-X Minerals Ltd.’s gold
project in Indonesia to join an all-booked tour. He sold the
shares after the company said the geologist who discovered the
mine had died from a fall from a helicopter. The announcement
started a chain of events leading to the exposure of the
company’s reserves as a hoax.  
 “In few other sectors do you have the opportunity to
invest in a company where one day the stock could be trading at
25 cents, and in a matter of months it could be trading at 10
bucks,” he said. “I love the whole aspect of discovery.”  
 Rosseau made profits of C$30 million each when Goldcorp
Inc. bought Gold Eagle Mines Ltd. and Kinross Gold Corp.
acquired Aurelian Resources Inc. in 2008, he said.  
 Rosseau’s current weighting in resources reflects Irwin’s
view of the broader economy. He’s in the inflationist camp,
saying the austerity measures enacted in Greece and Spain to
corral budget deficits are unlikely to be repeated in countries
that control their own currency. Governments sometimes increase
money supply to cover fiscal deficits, which can lead to
inflation.  
 Printing Money  
 “When politicians have a choice between printing their way
out of a problem or cutting spending to get themselves back on
track, they often choose the easy way,” he said.  
 Irwin invested in Athabasca when it was privately held last
year for as little as C$2.50 a share. PetroChina Co.’s partner
in Canadian oil sands development went public at C$18 last April
and has since dropped to below C$11. Irwin said investors who
sold shares after the initial public offering are looking too
short-term and those who wait for the company to begin
production, which is expected in 2014, will be rewarded.  
 Rosseau bought shares of western Canadian oil and gas
producer Paramount for C$15 in October. The shares closed at
$18.99 on June 11.  
 Another Rosseau holding, Tourmaline Oil Corp., is likely to
go public in the next 12 months, Irwin said. Its chief executive
officer,  Mike Rose , ran Duvernay Oil Corp. before Royal Dutch
Shell Plc bought it in 2008.  
 Brazil Deposits  
 Colossus, which is also backed by  Sprott Asset Management
LP , is developing a precious-metals deposit in Brazil. The
company has reached a deal to increase its land base seven-fold,
which Irwin said “could hold the potential for a significant
increase in resources.”  
 Irwin doesn’t just look for opportunities in the resources
industry. When a chance to spend three days with the rock titans
of KISS, including  Gene Simmons , came up at a Los Angeles
charity auction last year, he figured it was a steal at $20,000,
even though he’s not much of a fan of the band.  
 Irwin now has an autographed guitar and three days’ worth
of stories to show for the experience.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        