-- Egypt Central Bank Will Probably Hold Interest Rates as Inflation Eases
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-06-14T10:31:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/egypt-central-bank-will-probably-hold-interest-rates-as-inflation-eases.html

          
          
             The Egyptian central bank will
probably keep its key interest rate on hold for the sixth
straight time, with urban inflation easing and core prices
remaining within what economists describe as the bank’s
“comfort zone.”  
 The bank will keep its overnight deposit rate at 8.25
percent, the lowest level since November 2006, according to
seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of the June 17
meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee.  
 Urban inflation, the main rate monitored by the Cairo-based
central bank, slowed to 10.5 percent in May from 11.4 percent in
the previous month. Food prices pushed the rate of core
inflation, which excludes the prices of fruit and vegetables as
well as regulated prices, up to 6.69 percent from 6.62 percent.  
 “The benign May core inflation reading has strengthened
our view that rates will be left on hold this month,”  Simon Williams , chief Middle East economist at HSBC Holding Plc in
Dubai, said by e-mail.  
 The central bank hasn’t publicly announced its inflation
target. Investment bank  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE  said in a note
this week that the bank aims to keep core inflation in a
“comfort zone” between 6 percent and 8 percent.  
 In its May 6 statement, the central bank said the level of
interest rates was appropriate to support economic growth while
maintaining price stability in the medium term.  
 Egypt’s economy, driven by tourism, manufacturing and
construction, expanded at a 5.8 percent annual rate in the first
quarter of 2010, Economic Development Minister  Osman Mohamed Osman  said in an interview on May 10. The government expects a
growth rate of more than 5 percent in the fiscal year that ends
this month, compared with 4.7 percent the previous year.  
 Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30  stock index gained 1.5 percent this
year up to yesterday’s close in Cairo.  Talaat Moustafa Group
Holding , the country’s biggest real-estate developer, gained 15
percent.  
 The central bank is unlikely to raise interest rates before
the fourth quarter of this year, Williams said. The Monetary
Policy Committee meets every six weeks to review its decision.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        