-- EDF, French Utilities to Post More Power-Plant Activity Data This Month
-- Tara Patel
-- 2010-06-14T09:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/electricite-de-france-french-utilities-will-post-more-power-plant-data.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA , Europe’s
biggest power generator, and other French utilities are ready to
start publishing forecasts for individual power-plant
availability by the end of the month.  
 The production outlook for the short- and medium-term for
power stations with capacities of more than 100 megawatts will
be disclosed by the end of June, said Soizic Hemion, deputy head
of the Union Francaise de l’Electricite, the trade organization
for power producers that includes EDF and  GDF Suez SA .  
 Utilities are testing publication through the existing
power data website of the  Reseau de Transport d’ Electricite ,
she said. RTE is wholly owned by EDF.  
 At the end of 2010, information on unplanned outages at
power stations with capacities of more than 100 megawatts will
be disclosed within 30 minutes, Hemion said.  
 The two-stage plan to expand publicly available information
on power plants in France was announced by the trade group last
November following criticism of  EDF  by France’s energy regulator
for posting “insufficient” forecasts about power production.  
 Generation data is important because prices hinge on how
much power is being produced at any given time. Electricity,
unlike other commodities, can’t be stored, so unexpected supply
cuts in one country may mean soaring prices in another part of
Europe’s interconnected markets.  
 EDF now provides information about halts and restarts at
its 58 nuclear reactors, which provide more than three quarters
of the country’s power, on recorded messages on answering
machines at 19 plants. These are often updated weekly. The
utility has long resisted publishing real-time information on
the grounds that it is “commercially sensitive.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        