-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for a Fifth Day on U.S. Consumer Optimism
-- Janice Kew
-- 2010-06-14T21:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-fifth-day-on-consumer-optimism-in-u-s-.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fifth day, the longest winning streak in two months, led by
gains in commodity prices and increased confidence in the
economic recovery.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 1.4 percent to 930.30
by 5 p.m. in New York. South Korea’s won jumped 2 percent
against the dollar, while Hungary’s forint strengthened 0.7
percent versus the euro, leading gains in developing-nation
currencies. The extra yield on emerging-market debt over U.S.
Treasuries fell 10 basis points to 3.21 percentage points,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Index.  
 Europe’s  industrial production  increased in April more than
economists forecast, the European Union’s statistical office
said today. A measure of U.S. consumer confidence rose to the
highest level in two years, a report showed on June 11. Oil
rebounded above $75 a barrel, while copper rose for a fifth day.  
 “There’s been a return to risk over the last week or so
given the resilience in metals and oil,” said  Luis Costa , an
emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London.  
 Benchmark indexes in India, Taiwan, South Africa, Poland
and Ukraine gained more than 1 percent, as did the Russian
Depositary Index of securities traded in London. Markets in
Moscow and Shanghai are closed for holidays.  
 KGHM Polska Miedz SA , Poland’s state-owned copper producer,
climbed 2.5 percent. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest
mining company, gained 3.3 percent in Johannesburg.  Mol Nyrt .,
Hungary’s biggest oil refiner, jumped 3.1 percent.  Sasol Ltd. ,
the world’s biggest maker of motor fuel from coal, rallied 4.1
percent in Johannesburg.  
 Uralkali, Vale  
 OAO Uralkali , Russia’s second-largest potash producer,
surged 5.2 percent, the most in almost two weeks in London
trading, after billionaire owner  Dmitry Rybolovlev  agreed to
sell a controlling stake.  
 Brazil’s Bovespa  index  fell for the first time in three
days, dropping 0.1 percent.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the state-
controlled oil company, declined 1.9 percent on speculation its
share sale may be larger than $25 billion.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the world’s largest
custom-chipmaker, rose 1 percent. Global chip-industry sales may
rise 6 percent to 7 percent annually over the next five years,
from an earlier estimate of 5 percent, JH Tzeng, a spokesman for
the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company, said by phone today, citing
Chairman  Morris Chang .  
 An accord between Taiwan and China will lower tariffs on
more than 200 items including car parts, petrochemicals and
machinery exported from China to the island, and on about 500
items in the opposite direction, officials said after a third
round of talks ended in Beijing yesterday. The Taiwan dollar
strengthened 0.4 percent, the biggest jump since June 3 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc.  
 Output Gain  
 Output in the economy of the 16 nations using the euro rose
0.8 percent from March, according to the EU’s  statistics office .
Economists had projected a gain of 0.5 percent, the median of 33
estimates in a  Bloomberg survey  showed. From a year earlier,
April production jumped 9.5 percent, the biggest gain since the
data started in 1991.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment increased to 75.5, beating the median
forecast of 65 economists polled by Bloomberg News.  
 “The outlook for the U.S. is generally quite positive,”
 Vasu Menon , vice president of wealth management at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp., said in a Bloomberg Television interview.
“Overall, sentiment is slightly more positive this week.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shiyin Chen  in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Janice Kew  in Johannesburg at 
 jkew1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        