-- Equity Residential May Start California Project Within a Year, Chief Says
-- Oshrat Carmiel
-- 2010-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/equity-residential-may-start-building-california-home-project-within-year.html

          
          
             Equity Residential , the largest
publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord, may start building a
new development in California within the next year, Chief
Executive Officer  David Neithercut  said.  
 “We have a land parcel in Los Angeles that we’ll look at;
we’ve got a land parcel in the Bay Area that we’ll look at as
well,” Neithercut said in an interview in Chicago. A project on
either property “could start within the next year” if the
company chooses to build, he said.  
 U.S. apartments may lead a rebound in commercial real
estate as the economy adds jobs, property research firm  Reis
Inc.  said in May. Vacancies probably will peak at 8.2 percent in
2010 and start to decline in 2011.  
 Equity Residential has lifted rents by the “high single
digits” in all of its markets since the beginning of the year,
as an increasing sense of job security spurs tenant demand, the
CEO said in the June 11 interview. The company has been starting
to raise rents after cutting them last year, though the pace of
increases won’t be sustainable without job growth, he said.  
 The company, based in Chicago, is seeking growth through
acquisitions of existing apartment communities and development
of new ones. This year, Equity Residential acquired three rental
buildings in New York from developer Harry Macklowe, and paid
$167 million for a two-tower, 559-unit building in Washington
that was developed initially as a condominium.  
 With so few properties coming up for sale, the cost of
buying an existing apartment community is getting close to the
cost of building a new one, the CEO said. That comparison, a
measure known as “replacement costs,” is taken into account
when the company decides whether to buy or build.  
 Equity Residential is building 111 apartments in
Manhattan’s Chelsea neighborhood and is about to start
construction on developments in Denver and Arlington, Virginia,
Neithercut said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        