-- Merkel, Sarkozy Urge G-20 on Bank Levy, Play Down Budget-Cut Differences
-- Helene Fouquet
-- 2010-06-14T18:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/merkel-sarkozy-urge-g-20-on-bank-levy-play-down-budget-cut-differences.html

          
          
             German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  urged the Group of 20 to do
more to tighten financial-market regulation, while playing down
their differences over how fast to reduce government debt.  
 Merkel and Sarkozy, speaking after talks in Berlin today,
said they are sending a joint letter to the current head of the
G-20, Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , to press for a
global banking levy and a financial transaction tax at the
summit of industrial and emerging nations in Toronto June 26-27.  
 “We’re not yet satisfied with what’s been achieved since
the first G-20 and we think that we have to forge ahead on
regulation,” Merkel said to reporters. It’s the second letter
in five days from Sarkozy and Merkel, after they urged the
European Union to speed up curbs on speculation, saying some
bets against stocks and government bonds should be banned.  
 The leaders of Europe’s two biggest economies made a show
of unity after a planned meeting on June 7 was canceled at the
last minute, prompting reports of a Franco-German dispute over
budget savings of more than 80 billion euros (98 billion)
announced by Merkel the same day.  
 Sarkozy, responding to a question about his differences
with the chancellor, said that while he and Merkel have
“boisterous” talks at time, it’s because they both want a
thorough debate of all policy options. “We are quite frank
people who have ambitions,” he said. “We do not shun
problems.”  
 Greek Crisis Spread  
 Euro-area countries are cutting budgets to avoid a spread
of the sovereign debt crisis emanating from Greece. A 750
billion-euro EU rescue fund has so far failed to stem the slide,
with the euro falling to a four-year low against the U.S. dollar
and more than $4 trillion wiped from global stock markets this
year.  
 Germany “reacted very quickly” in drafting cuts, and all
other euro countries need to follow suit,  Norbert Barthle , the
budget spokesman in parliament for Merkel’s Christian Democrats,
said today in a phone interview, urging France to announce more
detailed budget-cutting steps.  
 “Greece has understood and Spain has understood, too,”
Barthle said. “We need progress from those that aren’t on the
way yet,” including France.  
 Sarkozy has said he will cut France’s deficit to 3 percent
of economic output in 2013 from 8 percent now. That will mean 45
billion euros of reductions in public spending, Prime Minister
 Francois Fillon  said two days ago.  
 French Pensions  
 Sarkozy said today that his government will announce
details on revamping the state pension system on June 16, the
day before EU leaders meet for a summit in Brussels. Fillon
favors increasing the country’s retirement age to 63 from 60, Le
Journal du Dimanche reported yesterday.  
 “I think that we’ve taken the right steps, and that France
has important plans for budget consolidation,” Merkel said. The
world “needs a signal from Europe” on cutting debt, she said.  
 Asked about reports that Spain might be preparing to tap
the European rescue fund, Merkel said that Spain or any other
euro-area country can call on aid if necessary.  
 “If there should be any problem, I think we shouldn’t talk
around it,” Merkel said. “This fund can be accessed at any
time, the conditions have been made clear, so I don’t think we
need to be worried.”  
 While saying “Spain or whichever country knows that this
fund can be accessed,” she declined to comment on
“speculation,” saying “I don’t want there to be a  self-
fulfilling prophecy .”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
 Helene Fouquet  in Berlin at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nicolas Sarkozy, France's president, and Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, leave a news conference at the German federal chancellory, in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
