-- Merrill, Starr, SocGen, RBS, Kissel, Diebold, Sybase, Chen in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-06-14T10:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/merrill-starr-socgen-rbs-kissel-diebold-sybase-chen-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Damian Chunilal, the former Asia-
Pacific head of investment banking at Merrill Lynch & Co., is
suing the bank over a reduced bonus payment in his last year
with the firm.  
 Chunilal, who left Merrill in November 2008 less than two
months after the bank agreed to be taken over by Bank of America
Corp., is suing in a London court over breach of contract. He
was paid a $2.3 million bonus for his last year, one-fifth of
his bonus the previous year, his lawyer, Robin Knowles, said at
a hearing June 11.  
 “They looked back at last year and took 20 percent,”
Knowles said. “It doesn’t matter how well you’ve done, however
hard you’ve worked, that’s what you get.”  
 Merrill asked the court to throw out Chunilal’s claim,
arguing the dispute should be decided in Hong Kong, where
Chunilal was based, the firm’s lawyer, Christopher Harrison,
said. Chunilal must show that the relevant breach of contract
occurred in London for it to be heard by a U.K. court, he said.  
 The case is Damian Chunilal v. Merrill Lynch International
Inc., 2009-1354, High Court of Justice (London).  
 For more, click here.  
 New York Money Manager Chimay Charged With Larceny, Forgery  
 New York money manager Guy Albert de Chimay was indicted in
New York on grand larceny and forgery charges, according to the
Manhattan District Attorney’s office.  
 Chimay, 47, chairman and chief investment officer of Chimay
Capital Management Inc., was arrested June 11 in Wrightsville
Beach, North Carolina, on a New York state warrant, said Adam
Kaufmann, chief of the investigation division of the Manhattan
District Attorney’s office.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued Chimay on
June 11, accusing him and his firm of fraud for touting
investments he claimed were tied to the Chimay royal family of
Belgium, and then stealing millions of dollars to pay his
divorce lawyers and the mortgage on his house in the Hamptons on
Long Island east of New York City.  
 “He lied to investors, took their money and used it to
support his lifestyle,” Kaufmann said in a phone interview.  
 The SEC obtained an emergency court order to freeze the
assets of Chimay and his firm.  
 Chimay Capital claimed to be the U.S. investment arm of the
royal family based in the Chimay region of Belgium and dating to
the 14th century, according to the SEC.  
 “Chimay used the trappings of royalty to perpetrate the
most common of frauds,” said George Canellos, director of the
SEC’s New York regional office. “Chimay blatantly lied to
investors about non-existent investments and then used their
money to bankroll his exorbitant personal and business debts.”  
 Phone numbers listed for Chimay and Chimay Capital weren’t
in service on June 11. He and the firm, which are facing at
least three investor lawsuits, have no known defense counsel,
the SEC said.  
 The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Chimay Capital Management Inc., 10-cv-04582, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Sybase Investor Sues to Block $5.8 Billion SAP Buyout  
 Sybase Inc.  executives violated shareholders’ rights by
agreeing to sell the software company to  SAP AG  for $5.8
billion, an investor contends in a lawsuit.  
 SAP and Sybase officials structured the $65-a-share buyout
in a way that may “substantially reduce the fair value of
stockholders’ shares,” investor Donald Carlson said in the
 Delaware Chancery Court  suit filed June 11.  
 SAP, the world’s biggest maker of business-management
software, said it would acquire Dublin, California-based Sybase
May 12 to help it fend off competition from  Oracle Corp.  Sybase
makes software that helps financial institutions analyze
information.  
 Christoph Liedtke, a SAP spokesman, said the company had no
immediate comment on the lawsuit. Mark Wilson, a Sybase
spokesman, didn’t return voice and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the suit.  
 Sybase and SAP officials have structured the acquisition as
a merger that unfairly allows a SAP unit to acquire 100 million
Sybase shares to make the buyout possible, Carlson said in the
suit.  
 The Delaware case is Donald Carlson v. Sybase Inc., 5557,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Louisiana Judge Grants State’s Petition Over BP Spill  
 Louisiana Attorney General Buddy Caldwell’s petition “for
discovery and investigation” against BP Plc was granted by a
state judge, giving him authorization to gather information as
part of the state’s investigation into the causes of the oil
spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 “The petition alleges that BP has failed to cooperate and
share important information with the state,” the Louisiana
Department of Justice said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 The petition was granted on June 10 by Judge Joy C. Lobrano
in the 25th Judicial District Court, Plaquemines Parish.  
 BP has 10 days to object, after which Caldwell’s office can
begin its discovery and investigation, according to the
statement.  
 Financial Adviser Starr Denies U.S. Fraud Charges  
 Kenneth Ira Starr, the New York investment adviser who
faces federal charges that he defrauded his celebrity and
socialite clients, denied wrongdoing June 11 in a brief court
appearance.  
 Starr, 66, was indicted June 11 following his May 27 arrest
for swindling clients. He pleaded not guilty June 11 in
Manhattan federal court, where a judge jailed him last month
after prosecutors argued that he might flee.  
 The indictment accuses Starr of stealing at least $59
million from 11 clients, including an actress, a former
executive of a talent agency, the stepson of a deceased heir to
a business fortune, a 99-year-old heiress, and a film producer.  
 “Mr. Starr wishes to plead not guilty,” his court
appointed lawyer, Sabrina Shroff, said in court. Starr didn’t
speak and will next appear in court on June 21.  
 Starr used his access to famous and powerful clients “to
burnish an image of trustworthiness, leading his clients to
entrust him with management and control of their financial
affairs,” sometimes assuming “total control” over their
financial lives, the indictment charges.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Kerviel Co-Worker Says SocGen Alerted About Trades  
 Jerome Kerviel’s superiors at  Societe Generale SA  should
have been informed about unauthorized trades by a system of
alerts and limits, a former colleague told a Paris court June
11.  
 Benoit Taillieu, who supervised the bank’s Delta One
trading desk before Kerviel worked on it, is the first witness
at the trial to support assertions that Societe Generale knew
what Kerviel was doing.  
 “They could not have been totally unaware,” said
Taillieu, who left the bank in March 2006. Kerviel may “be
guilty, but not alone.”  
 Kerviel, 33, is charged with abuse of trust, faking
documents and computer hacking in relation to a 4.9 billion-euro
($5.9 billion) trading loss in January 2008 that prosecutors say
was caused by the liquidation of unauthorized positions of 50
billion euros. On June 10, another colleague at France’s second-
largest bank by market value testified that traders rarely
exceeded limits.  
 In testimony later in the day, Taillieu, who didn’t work
with Kerviel or know him personally, said in response to
questioning from Societe Generale lawyer Jean Veil that he
doubted Kerviel’s superiors knew the full extent of the trades
before January 2008.  
 “I never said that his supervisors were aware of the
amount, 50 billion euros,” Taillieu said. “Fifty billion is
unimaginable.””  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Mercer Will Pay $500 Million to Settle Alaska Pension Lawsuit  
 Marsh & McLennan Cos. ’ Mercer consulting unit agreed to pay
$500 million to settle a lawsuit brought by the Alaska
Retirement Management Board that blamed the firm for billions of
dollars in unfunded liabilities.  
 The settlement was in the company’s best interest because
of the uncertainty of the outcome of a  jury trial  in Juneau,
Alaska, where many plan participants live, and because the
plaintiffs were seeking at least $2.8 billion in damages, Mercer
said June 11 in a statement. Spokesman Charles Salmans declined
to comment further.  
 Alaska Attorney General Dan Sullivan said in a separate
statement that the unfunded liabilities were caused by stock
market declines, increases in health-care costs and Mercer’s
negligence. The Alaska board accused Mercer of malpractice,
breach of contract and unfair trade practices in advising the
state on management of two retirement funds.  
 “This is a significant settlement that will benefit the
state and our citizens,” Sullivan said in the statement. “We
have been informed that by a large margin it is the largest such
settlement in history for this kind of claim.”  
 Mercer denied liability, it said in its statement.
Insurance will cover $100 million of the settlement, the company
said.  
 The case is Alaska Retirement Management Board v. Mercer,
1JU-07-0974, Alaska Superior Court (Juneau.)  
 Santander Wins Reduction of Largest-Ever U.K. Race-Bias Award  
 Banco Santander SA , Spain’s largest bank, won a court
ruling reducing a 2.8 million-pound ($4.1 million) judgment for
racial discrimination, what would have been the largest-ever in
the U.K., to 200,000 pounds.  
 Balbinder Chagger, 44, a former trading-risk controller at
the bank’s Abbey National Plc unit, was fired in 2006. A London
employment tribunal ruled that he would have been fired
regardless of whether he was discriminated against.  
 The tribunal originally found in 2007 that Chagger was
discriminated against and unfairly dismissed based on his Indian
origin. The case was appealed twice and sent back to the
tribunal for further argument on whether he would have been
dismissed regardless of discrimination and whether the award
should be reduced.  
 “This outcome supports the consistent approach that
Santander U.K. has taken to the issue of compensation as we
considered the previous decision to be disproportionate,”
Santander said in an e-mailed statement.  
 David von Hagen, a lawyer for Chagger, declined to comment
on the verdict.  
 The case is Chagger v. Abbey National Plc, Central London
Employment Tribunal, 2201763/2006.  
 RBS Cleared in Raiffeisen Lawsuit Over Enron Loan  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  didn’t mislead  Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG  in seeking the Austrian bank’s
participation in a 138.5 million-pound ($203 million) loan to
 Enron Corp.,  a U.K. judge ruled.  
 Neither RBS nor two employees accused of fraud in the case
behaved dishonestly or hid problems with Enron’s accounting from
banks joining RBS’s syndicated loan, Judge Christopher Clarke
said in a ruling June 11 in a London court.  
 “Banks were falling over themselves to lend to it,”
Clarke said of Enron in a 113-page ruling. “None of that was a
guarantee of integrity” as “subsequent events showed,” Clarke
said. “But the nature and extent of Enron’s business was not
such as to excite suspicion of impropriety.”  
 Raiffeisen, based in Vienna, sought to recoup 5.25 million
pounds it lost on a 10 million-pound contribution to the
syndicated loan in 2000, arguing in the trial that the case was
a matter of “banking ethics.” Enron was the world’s largest
energy trader, with a market value of as much as $68 billion,
before it  collapsed  amid accounting frauds in 2001.  
 Raiffeisen’s lawyer, Harvey Rands with the firm Memery
Crystal in London, didn’t return a call for comment.  
 “RBS welcomes this judgment and now looks forward to re-
establishing closer business links with RZB,” Michael Strachan,
a spokesman for Royal Bank of Scotland, said in an e-mail.  
 The loan was used to create a special-purpose vehicle, a
legal entity owned by RBS, to temporarily hold an Enron power
plant and place it back on Enron’s books later and record its
increased value.  
 RBS  loaned the full amount to the SPV, paid about 5 million
pounds in equity and syndicated the loan. Without disclosing it
to the Austrian bank, RBS obtained an oral commitment from Enron
to repay the equity plus a return of 13.5 percent a year,
Raiffeisen said at the trial in January  
 RBS didn’t document the agreement since it violated the
accounting requirements of the vehicle, Raiffeisen argued at
trial.  
 RBS said at the trial it investigated the claims and
determined its employees had acted honestly.  
 The case is Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG v. the
Royal Bank of Scotland, 2006/1202, High Court of Justice
(London), Queen’s Bench Division.  
 Taiwan’s Ex-President Chen Wins Cut in Life Sentence  
 Taiwan’s former President Chen Shui-bian, whose pro-
independence stance riled China and roiled domestic politics,
won a reduction in his life sentence for graft to 20 years in an
appeal hearing in Taipei High Court.  
 Chen also had the NT$200 million ($6.2 million) fine handed
down by a Taipei district court reduced to NT$170 million,
according to the ruling June 11. Chen will appeal against the
judgment, Chen’s son Chen Chih-chung said in comments broadcast
live on Taiwan’s TVBS television following the ruling June 11.  
 Prosecutors accused Chen, 59, and his wife of accepting
bribes to facilitate two property deals and laundering the funds
overseas. Chen’s 2000 election ended more than half a century of
rule by the Kuomintang, who subsequently regained power as the
opposition  Democratic Progressive Party  was tarnished by the
corruption allegations.  
 Prosecutors said in 2008 their investigation showed that
more than $30 million was remitted to accounts in Singapore and
the Cayman Islands and then moved to Swiss bank accounts.  
 The former president’s wife, Wu Shu-chen, who was also
jailed for life, had her sentence reduced to 20 years as well.
She was separately jailed for a year in September for perjury.
Chen’s son was sentenced to one year and two months and a fine
of NT$30 million. The son’s wife, Huang Jui-ching, was sentenced
to one year and a fine of NT$20 million, according to the June
11 ruling. Huang’s jail term is graced with a 4-year suspension,
Presiding Judge Deng Zhen-qiu said in the court June 11.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Kissel Fails to Win All Legal Costs From Hong Kong  
 Nancy Kissel, who will be retried for the murder of her
 Merrill Lynch & Co.  banker husband, recovered partial legal
costs for her original trial and appeals even though successful
appellants are usually paid in full.  
 Kissel recovered half the cost of her trial and some of the
costs of her two appeals from the Hong Kong government,
according to a ruling delivered by Justice Kemal Bokhary June
11.  
 Michigan-born Kissel, 46, admitted killing her husband
Robert Kissel, then the head of Merrill’s distressed assets
business in Asia, on Nov. 2, 2003. Prosecutors alleged she first
drugged him with a sedative-laced milkshake before bludgeoning
him in their bedroom with an eight-pound statuette. The mother-
of-three testified that she had acted in self-defense.  
 In the judgment, Justice Bokhary and Justice Patrick Chan
noted that an accused who wins an appeal is normally awarded
costs.  
 “There is, however, a judicial discretion to deprive such
a person of some or all of his or her costs,” the judges said,
without giving a reason for withholding some of Kissel’s
expenses.  
 The two-page judgment didn’t specify the amount due to
Kissel. Simon Clarke, who led her defense team between 2003 and
2010, earlier estimated the costs to be about HK$45 million
($5.8 million). He declined to comment on the order. Defense
lawyer Colin Cohen, hired for the retrial, also declined to
comment.  
 Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions Kevin Zervos
declined to comment on the costs order in light of the pending
retrial.  
 The case is Nancy Ann Kissel and HKSAR, FACC2/2009, Hong
Kong Court of Final Appeal.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 Litigation Departments  
 Goldman Sachs Said to Hire Boies, Schiller for Timberwolf Case  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  hired law firm  Boies, Schiller &
Flexner LLP  to defend the company against a $1 billion lawsuit
filed by Australian hedge fund Basis Capital this week, said a
person briefed on the matter.  
 The law firm, founded by David Boies and Jonathan Schiller
in 1997, has handled Wall Street litigation including the Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy case. The person declined to
be identified because the hiring hasn’t been made public.  
 Michael DuVally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, and Dawn Schneider at Boies, Schiller said they couldn’t
comment.  
 The June 9 lawsuit by  Basis Capital’s   Basis Yield Alpha
Fund  focuses on Goldman Sachs’s sale of the “now notorious
Timberwolf collateralized debt obligation,” Basis said in a
statement. The suit filed in Manhattan federal court says the
fund was forced into insolvency after buying mortgage-linked
securities created by Goldman Sachs, in what one of its own
executives described internally as a “shi**y deal.”  
 Boies, Schiller joins a growing list of firms providing
legal and regulatory advice to Goldman Sachs, the most
profitable firm in Wall Street history, which was sued by the
Securities and Exchange Commission in April over its marketing
of another CDO known as Abacus.  
 In a June 9 statement about the Timberwolf lawsuit, Goldman
Sachs called it “a misguided attempt by Basis, a hedge fund
that was one of the world’s most experienced CDO investors, to
shift its investment losses to Goldman Sachs.”  
 The case is Basis Yield v. Goldman Sachs, 1:10-cv-04537,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest litigation department news, click here.  
 Court Filings  
 SEC Lawsuit Against Diebold for Accounting Fraud Tops Chart  
 Diebold Inc.  used fraudulent accounting practices to
inflate earnings from at least 2002 to 2007, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission alleged in a lawsuit that was the most-
read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last week.  
 The SEC named the maker of bank teller-machines in its
complaint even as it reached a $25 million settlement with
Diebold, according to an SEC statement. Diebold said in May 2009
that it had an “agreement in principle” to settle with the
SEC, which was completed June 2. The company hasn’t admitted or
denied any wrongdoing under its accord, the company said in a
statement.  
 In a related federal suit filed in Ohio, the SEC also
accused three former senior Diebold executives of manipulating
earnings to meet forecasts. The three are: Gregory Geswein, the
company’s former chief financial officer; Sandra Miller, the
former director of corporate accounting; and Kevin Krakora, the
former controller and later CFO. Lawyers for the three
executives denied wrongdoing in interviews with Bloomberg News
last week.  
 The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Diebold Inc., 10cv908, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  
 For more, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        