-- Extended Stay, WaMu, Zayat, Escada, Worldspace, Salander, RPM: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-06-14T11:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/escada-point-blank-worldspace-national-envelope-salander-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Extended Stay Inc . said it sees no
reason to allow the creditors’ committee to sue now over claims
arising from the company’s acquisition in 2007.  
 The operator of more than 680 long-term lodging properties
in 44 U.S. states said in a court filing that the proposed
Chapter 11 plan will create a litigation trust funded with $5
million to bring any lawsuits that the examiner found to have
sufficient merit.  
 The committee’s motion for authorization to investigate and
file the lawsuit is scheduled to be heard in bankruptcy court on
June 17.  
 Extended Stay, based in Spartanburg, South Carolina,
contends that the mezzanine lenders owed $3.3 billion, who
helped finance the 2007 acquisition, have no right to profit
from a lawsuit attempting to find defects in the transaction.
The company argues that creditors with some $9 million in claims
are the only ones with the right to benefit from any perceived
defects in the 2007 transaction.  
 Affiliates of  Blackstone Group LP , who were sellers in
2007, similarly argue against allowing the committee to sue when
the forthcoming litigation trust can make the claim if the
trustee for the trust believes it has merit.  
 Extended Stay filed a revised reorganization plan and
explanatory disclosure statement last week to implement the
auction in May where the winning bidders were Centerbridge
Partners LP, Paulson & Co. and Blackstone with an offer of $3.93
billion. If the plan is confirmed, the buyer will take all the
equity in the reorganized Extended Stay.  
 For details on the sale and the plan, click here to read
the June 10 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The disclosure
statement is set for approval at the June 17 hearing. Before the
auction, Extended Stay was hoping for a confirmation hearing for
approval of the plan on July 20.  
 Extended Stay’s Chapter 11 petition in June 2009 listed
assets of $7.1 billion against debt totaling $7.6 billion,
including $4.1 billion in mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10
different mezzanine loans. The company’s properties are almost
all managed by HVM LLC, an affiliate that didn’t file in Chapter
11.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Updates  
 WaMu Plan Enforcing Subordination Clauses in Bonds  
 Although  Washington Mutual Inc . hasn’t resolved all
objections to the disclosure statement up for approval on June
17, the holders of $2.3 billion in bonds say they understand the
plan is being changed to enforce subordination agreements.      Once
the disclosure statement is cleared by the bankruptcy judge in
Delaware, creditors can begin voting on the reorganization plan
that would implement a global settlement some creditors and
shareholders oppose.  
 The judge also will decide at the June 17 hearing whether
to appoint an examiner. Shareholders want an examiner to
evaluate the merits of the proposed settlement. Holders of $3.6
billion in pre-bankruptcy secured debt announced their
opposition to the accord even before it was formally disclosed.  
 The settlement and plan confirmation would enable WaMu to
distribute more than $7 billion to creditors. To read about the
settlement, click here for the May 24 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report. Click here to read the May 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report for a summary of WaMu’s plan.  
 Shareholders and bank bondholders believe WaMu and the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. are giving up too cheaply and
should continue lawsuits with JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 The WaMu holding company filed under Chapter 11 in
September 2008, one day after the bank unit was taken over. The
bank was the sixth-largest depository and credit-card issuer in
the U.S. and the largest bank failure in the country’s history.
The holding company filed formal lists of assets and debt
showing property with a total value of $4.49 billion against
liabilities of $7.83 billion.  
 The holding company Chapter 11 case is Washington Mutual
Inc., 08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  
 Zayat Stables Reorganization Plan Heads for Creditor Vote  
 Zayat Stables LLC ’s creditors can vote on the
reorganization plan in advance of a July 15 confirmation
hearing, after the bankruptcy judge approved the explanatory
disclosure statement last week.  
 The plan calls for paying creditors in full over time,
allowing  Ahmed Zayat  to retain ownership.  
 The disclosure statement was approved over the objection of
secured lender  Fifth Third Bank , which is owed about $34.5
million. The bank will have interest brought current when the
plan becomes effective, at the contract rate of 1 percent below
prime. Thereafter, interest will be paid at the London Interbank
Borrowed Rate plus 3 percent.  
 The Cincinnati-based bank will receive a $5 million payment
of principal on at the end of December. At the end of 2011
through 2013, Zayat will pay down principal by the greater of $3
million or 40 percent of proceeds from the sale of horses. The
remaining principal and interest will come due Dec. 31, 2014.  
 Unsecured creditors, with $1.2 million in claims, are to be
paid in full without interest over two years. A $2.45 million
loan from a Zayat family member used to finance the Chapter 11
case will be forgiven.  
 Zayat sued the bank for what it called “predatory
lending.” The bank says it holds personal guarantees given by
 Ahmed Zayat  for as much as $38.7 million. Zayat said he
personally invested $40 million in the business.  
 The stables, based in Hackensack, New Jersey, filed under
Chapter 11 in February in Newark as the bank sought the
appointment of a receiver.  
 The stables have more than 200 horses, representing
collateral for the bank. The horses are valued at $37 million,
according an appraisal cited in a court paper. Revenue in 2009
was $21 million.  
 The case is In re Zayat Stables LLC, 10-13130, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 Escada USA Confirms Liquidating Chapter 11 Plan  
 The bankruptcy judge signed a confirmation order on June 10
approving the liquidating Chapter 11 plan for Escada USA. The
disclosure statement said that unsecured creditors with claims
of $370 million are expected to receive 3 percent to 8 percent.
Tax claims of $2.9 million are to be paid in full.  
 The judge deleted provisions from the confirmation order
that would have given releases to officers and directors.  
 The U.S. business was sold for $6 million to an affiliate
of the Mittal Family Trusts. In December, the same buyer bought
the parent, German luxury apparel maker  Escada AG .  
 Escada USA filed under Chapter 11 with 27 retail and outlet
stores in the U.S. It also distributed through specialty
retailers like Saks Fifth Avenue and Neiman Marcus.  
 Escada’s definitive lists of assets and debt show property
on the books for $51.2 million and liabilities totaling $361.5
million. Debt includes $14.2 million in priority claims, with
the balance representing unsecured claims. The Escada companies
filed for reorganization in Germany and the U.S. in August.  
 The case is In re EUSA Liquidating Inc., 09-15008, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Point Blank Bonuses Approved After Changes Made  
 Point Blank Solutions Inc.  won approval for a bonus program
last week after making changes to resolve objections from the
U.S. Trustee and the creditors’ committee.  
 The U.S. Trustee argued that the program would have given
prohibited retention bonuses because employees and executives
would earn payments solely by selling the assets before March
2011. Point Blank changed the program by establishing minimum
prices that must be realized before bonuses are earned.  
 The minimum sale prices to justify bonuses weren’t
disclosed publicly so as not to chill bidding.  
 The program will cost a maximum of $381,000, from which
$294,000 would go to the 10 executives.  
 Point Blank filed under Chapter 11 in April with a plant
and head office in Pompano Beach, Florida, and a second plant in
Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in 2009 was more than $153
million. The petition listed assets of $64 million against debt
totaling $68.5 million. Debt includes a $10.5 million secured
loan to be paid off by the financing. Point Blank said it also
owes $28.2 million to trade suppliers. Three former officers
were indicted on charges of securities fraud.  
 The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  
 Liberty Satellite Drops $116 Million WorldSpace Claim  
 WorldSpace Inc. , the owner of two geostationary satellites,
has an approved settlement in which Liberty Satellite Radio LLC
waives most of its secured claim for $116 million.  
 Earlier this month, the bankruptcy court in Delaware
authorized selling the assets for $5.5 million to Yazmi USA LLC,
a company controlled by WorldSpace Chief Executive  Noah Samara .  
 WorldSpace was prepared to contend that Liberty breached an
agreement to purchase the asset. In return for a release of all
claims, Liberty waived its right to receive all but $250,000
from the sale proceeds from Yazmi. In addition, Liberty will
receive $370,000 cash it lent to WorldSpace that was never
spent.  
 WorldSpace, a Maryland-based provider of satellite radio
and data broadcasting services, had two sales fall through. The
first sale, for $28 million, was to have been to Yenura Pte, a
company Samara controlled. WorldSpace terminated the contract,
contending Yenura was in breach for failure to pay the agreed
price.  
 The Chapter 11 petition filed in October 2008 listed assets
of $307 million and debt totaling $309 million. Debt includes
$36.1 million on senior secured notes and $53.1 million on
convertible debt. WorldSpace has two geostationary satellites
serving 170,000 paying customers in ten countries outside of the
U.S.  
 The case is In re WorldSpace Inc., 08-12412, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Retailer Old Time Pottery Confirms Full Payment Plan  
 Old Time Pottery Inc. , a home decor retailer, is a
testament to how some smaller companies can avoid liquidating in
Chapter 11.  
 Last month the company confirmed a reorganization plan
where the secured lender is paid off in cash, and unsecured
creditors will be paid in full by the end of the year.
Stockholders retain ownership.  
 Old Time Pottery filed for reorganization in Nashville in
August last year with 37 stores. Eight were closed.  
 SunTrust Bank, the secured lender owed $15 million at the
outset of bankruptcy, will have the remainder of its claim paid
with a new $20 million revolving credit from FirstMerit Bank NA
from Cincinnati. SunTrust’s loan was paid down in part with
proceeds from inventory in the stores that closed.  
 Unsecured creditors, who were listed as having $23 million
in claims, will receive payment of 75 percent of their approved
claims when the plan is implemented. The remaining 25 percent,
plus interest on the deferred portion, will be paid by Dec. 25.  
 The Murfreesboro, Tennessee-based company originally said
assets were more than $50 million while debt is less than $50
million.  
 The case is In re Old Time Pottery Inc., 09-09548, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Middle District Tennessee (Nashville).  
 Gart Capital Buys Swoozie’s Store Leases, Name  
 Swoozie’s Inc. , once a 43-store specialty retailer, was
authorized on June 11 by the bankruptcy judge in Atlanta to sell
the name, intellectual property, customer lists, and leases for
30 stores to an affiliate of Gart Capital Partners.  
 The price was $100,000. There were no competing bids, the
judge said in the approval order.  
 Hilco Merchant Resources LLC won the auction for the right
to liquate inventory in going-out-of-business sales that will be
completed no later than June 15. Although Hilco had the right to
sell leases, it didn’t. The agreement called for Hilco to pay a
guaranteed $7.43 million.  
 Swoozie’s filed under Chapter 11 in March. Financing
required a quick sale of assets.  
 Swoozie’s stores are in the Southeast, Northeast, Texas and
California. An affiliate of Wells Fargo Bank NA, the secured
lender owed $3.1 million, provided $3.5 million in financing.
The petition says assets were less than $10 million while debt
exceeded $10 million.  
 The stores sell housewares and party goods and make
personalized invitations.  
 The case is In re Swoozie’s Inc., 10-66316, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  
 Watch List  
 Trico Loan Agreement Requires Chapter 11 by Sept. 8  
 Trico Marine Services Inc. , a provider of support vessels
for the offshore oil and natural-gas industry, signed a revised
loan agreement on June 11 requiring the company to file under
Chapter 11 no later than Sept. 8.  
 The agreement with Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC provides
for converting the existing $25 million revolving credit
commitment into a $25 million term loan commitment. Although
Trico drew down the entire loan when the revised agreement was
signed, the money was placed into a blocked account to assure
compliance with conditions of the loan.  
 The loan requires that Trico “diligently” pursue
negotiations on a so-called prepackaged Chapter 11
reorganization. In addition, there must be a forbearance
agreement governing the 8.125 percent convertible notes. Trico
won’t be making the $8 million interest payment on the
convertible notes. The grace period expires June 17.  
 Trico, based in The Woodlands, Texas, said in a regulatory
filing today that Tennenbaum will provide $50 million in secured
financing for the Chapter 11 case.  
 Trico reported a $78.5 million net loss and an $18.4
million operating loss for the first quarter. Revenue in the
quarter was $95.7 million. For the year 2009, the operating and
net losses were $125.3 million and $144.8 million, respectively.
Revenue last year was $642.2 million.  
 Trico’s balance sheet had assets of $1.01 billion and total
liabilities of $985.9 million on March 31.  
 The convertible notes traded on June 11 at $52, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 Daily Podcast  
 British Petroleum, National Envelope, Rule 2019: Podcast  
 The Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com have daily
podcasts about bankruptcy. Click here to listen to the June 11
podcast dealing with British Petroleum, National Envelope, and
recommended changes in Bankruptcy Rule 2019 dealing with
informal and ad hoc committees in bankruptcy cases.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Specialty Products Committee Are Asbestos Claimants  
 Specialty Products Holding Corp. and Bondex International
Inc., two non-operating subsidiaries of  RPM International Inc. ,
have an official creditors’ committee composed of 11 asbestos
claimants. Each is represented by a different law firm. The
companies filed under Chapter 11 on May 31 to deal with 10,000
asbestos claims. The bankruptcy judge in Delaware has
temporarily halted lawsuits against RPM and all subsidiaries,
not just those in Chapter 11.  
 Specialty Products has non-bankrupt subsidiaries that
produce approximately $330 million in annual revenue. Bondex,
which is no longer operating, is a Specialty Products subsidiary
that is chiefly responsible for the asbestos claims from a
company acquired in 1966 named Reardon Co. Medina, Ohio-based
RPM had consolidated assets of $3.34 billion and $2.13 billion
in liabilities as of Feb. 28. The Specialty Products and Bondex
Chapter 11 petitions both said assets and debt exceed $100
million.  
 The case is In re Specialty Products Holding Corp., 10-
11780, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 National Envelope Has Interim Borrowing Approval  
 National Envelope Corp., the largest closely held envelope
manufacturing company in the U.S., was given interim permission
by the bankruptcy judge on June 11 to borrow $10 million from a
$139 million loan for the Chapter 11 reorganization that began
June 10. The final financing hearing will take place July 13.
 General Electric Capital Corp . is agent for the lenders. To read
Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here. The company’s
lawyer said there should be a contract for the sale of the
business signed within a few weeks. The loan agreement requires
having a sale agreement by July 2 and approval of sale
procedures by July 16.  
 NEC, based in Uniondale, New York, has 14 manufacturing
plants in 11 states, plus three warehouses. Net sales in 2009
were $676 million, resulting in a $44.2 million net loss. The
petition says assets and debt are both less than $500 million.
Liabilities include $74.3 million on a secured term loan, $70.6
million on a secured revolving credit, and $89 million owing on
unsecured debts to trade suppliers.  
 The case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Salander Gallery’s Christie’s Auction Disappoints  
 The  Christie’s International  auction of artworks belonging
to bankrupt Salander-O’Reilly Galleries LLC brought in $2.1
million, below the pre-sale low estimate of $2.3 million. One-
third of the lots didn’t sell at all. To read Bloomberg coverage
of the auction, click here.  Lawrence Salander , the gallery’s
proprietor, was indicted in March 2009 by the Manhattan District
Attorney on charges relating to an $88 million fraud going back
13 years. He pleaded guilty in March 2010 and will be sentenced
to six to 18 years in prison. He must also pay $120 million in
restitution to his defrauded customers.  
 The gallery went into Chapter 11 in November 2007 after
being sued for alleged improper dealings with artworks. The
liquidating gallery is being run by an independent chief
restructuring officer. Lawrence Salander and his wife filed
under Chapter 11 in November 2007. Their cases were converted to
liquidation in Chapter 7 in May 2008, automatically bringing the
appointment of a trustee.  
 The individuals’ case is In re Lawrence B. Salander and
Julie D. Salander, No. 07-36735, and the gallery’s case is In re
Salander-O’Reilly Galleries LLC, No. 07-30005, both in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  
 Bank Failure  
 Seattle Bank is Year’s 82nd Bank Failure  
 Washington First International Bank from Seattle was the
only bank to fail last week. The takeover on June 11 will cost
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. $158.4 million.  
 To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 There have been 82 U.S. bank failures this year. Last year
there were 140, five times more than 2008. The failures in 2009
were the most since 1992, when 179 institutions were taken over
by regulators.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        