-- EU Is `Optimistic' on Greek Deficit-Cutting Measures as Inspection Begins
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-06-14T11:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/eu-is-optimistic-on-greek-deficit-cutting-measures-as-inspection-begins.html

          
          
             The European Union said it expects
Greece to implement its deficit-cutting plan as officials from
the EU and International Monetary Fund began an inspection in
Athens.  
 “For now we are optimistic,” EU spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj 
told reporters in Brussels today. “The work is difficult but is
proceeding well.”  
 EU and IMF officials began talks in Athens today as part of
regular checks on the government’s budget plans, which are being
monitored under the terms of the 110 billion-euro ($135 billion)
package of emergency loans being provided to Greece. A Finance
Ministry official in Athens, who briefed reporters on the
condition of anonymity, said the visiting team expressed concern
about inflation, and that Greece will meet its goals in the end.  
 Inflation probably won’t meet the annual goal outlined in
the memorandum with the Greek government, said the official. The
EU-IMF forecast for inflation in Greece this year is 1.9
percent. Inflation in May accelerated to the fastest in at least
a decade amid higher prices for fuel, alcohol and tobacco
products, reflecting higher taxes on those goods.  
 Consumer prices  in the country increased 5.4 percent from a
year earlier after a 4.8 percent gain in April, the Hellenic
Statistical Authority said last week, prompting Finance Minister
 George Papaconstantinou  to call the figure “worrying.”  
 The price of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products rose
an annual 16.9 percent while transport costs jumped 20.3 percent
following an increase in the excise duty on fuel. Greece pledged
to increase fuel, alcohol and tobacco taxes further as part of
efforts to reduce the euro region’s second-biggest budget
deficit to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product this year from
13.6 percent in 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Weeks  in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net 
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        