-- Euro Turmoil Drives Borrowers to Issue in Loonies, Francs: Credit Markets
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-06-15T17:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/euro-turmoil-drives-borrowers-to-issue-in-loonies-francs-credit-markets.html

          
          
             A drop in the euro to near its
lowest level in four years means Canadian dollars and Swiss
francs are accounting for record shares of global bond sales as
investors flee turmoil in Europe’s government debt market.  
 General Electric Co. ’s financing arm has led C$5.66 billion
($5.5 billion) of bond sales this month, 10.5 percent of total
global issuance and double the currency’s share in May,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Issuance in
Switzerland’s currency jumped to 3.08 billion francs ($2.7
billion), or 5.1 percent of sales, from 1 percent the previous
month, as companies including  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  of
Munich tapped the market.  
 Borrowers are seeking alternative funding sources to avoid
markets directly affected by collapsing confidence in the euro
region’s ability to contain soaring deficits. Bond offerings in
all currencies other than U.S. dollars and euros totalled $15
billion, or a record 29 percent of the $51.2 billion issued,
double the proportion of a year ago, Bloomberg data show.  
 “Investors are only too happy to diversify,” said  James Camp , who helps oversee $17 billion of assets as managing
director of fixed income at Eagle Asset Management Inc. in St.
Petersburg, Florida. “The window for issuers may be closing and
they need to look to other markets for funding.”  
 Greece’s credit rating was cut four steps yesterday to junk
by Moody’s Investors Service, underscoring concern the crisis in
Europe is worsening. Camp said he’s looking for the first time
at deals denominated in Canada’s loonie, nicknamed for the
coin’s picture of an aquatic bird, as sales climb toward the
busiest month on record.  
 U.S. Credit Risk  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, a gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk declined for a fourth straight day amid signs
growing industrial production may help the economy withstand
Europe’s debt crisis.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series
14, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.59 basis
point to a mid-price of 121.5 basis points as of 12:16 p.m. in
New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The index typically
rises as investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it
improves.  
 Manufacturing in the New York region expanded in June at a
faster pace, signaling factories are weathering the turmoil in
financial markets and driving the economic recovery. Illinois
Tool Works Inc. raised its second-quarter earnings forecast.  
 BSkyB Swaps Surge  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 The cost of insuring against a default by  British Sky
Broadcasting Plc  surged after  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. made a
7.8 billion-pound ($11.6 billion) bid for the company. BSkyB,
the U.K.’s largest pay-TV provider, rejected the offer, asking
for the bid to be raised by at least 14 percent.  
 Credit-default swaps on  BSkyB  rose 15 basis points to 105,
according to CMA DataVision. The company’s shares climbed as
much as 22 percent, the biggest jump in more than 10 years.  
 BP Plc  default swaps jumped after Fitch Ratings downgraded
the London-based company to BBB from AA because of potential
costs from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. BP five-year credit-
swaps surged 54.5 basis points to 492 after today’s ratings
downgrade, according to CMA DataVision.  
 Default Probability  
 Greek credit swaps signal a 48.5 percent probability the
nation will default within five years. The cost of insuring $10
million of Greece’s bonds for five years jumped $55,500 to
$811,000 a year, making the nation’s debt the third most
expensive to protect after Venezuela and Argentina, according to
CMA DataVision.  
 The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments increased 9 basis points to 150,
according to CMA. A basis point on a five-year contract
protecting $10 million of debt is equivalent to $1,000 a year.  
 Contracts on Spain climbed 18.5 basis points to 250.5,
Portugal jumped 16 to 318, Italy increased 9 to 200 and Ireland
was 15 higher at 254, CMA prices show.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers climbed 2.5 basis points at 169.5,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index
of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings climbed 2.25
basis points to 128.5, JPMorgan prices show.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds relative to government debt fell. Spreads tightened 5
basis points to 317 basis points, according to JPMorgan’s
Emerging Market Bond index.  
 Genzyme Sells Debt  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold corporate bonds
instead of government debt fell 3 basis points to 198 basis
points, or 1.98 percentage points, the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate Index shows. Yields averaged
4.119 percent.  
 Genzyme Corp., the biotechnology company that develops
drugs for rare chronic diseases, issued $1 billion of debt that
may be used for a stock repurchase plan, Moody’s said yesterday
in a report. The company announced a stock buyback of as much as
$2 billion of shares on May 6, according to a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  
 Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme had  no outstanding
debt  before yesterday’s offering, according to Bloomberg data.
The company’s $690 million of 1.25 percent notes issued in
December 2003 were called in November 2007.  
 Covered Bond Sale  
 Lloyds TSB Bank Plc , a unit of the lender that’s 41 percent
owned by U.K. taxpayers, is selling covered bonds in euros
today, according to a banker involved in the transaction, who
declined to be identified before it’s completed.  Credit Agricole
SA , France’s largest bank by branches, is offering five-year
covered bonds in euros that may be priced to yield about 45
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, a banker with
knowledge of the conditions said.  
 Sales of European covered bonds, backed by mortgages or
state-sector loans as well as the issuer’s pledge to pay, have
more than doubled from May to 23.3 billion euros, Bloomberg data
show. Borrowers are rushing to sell the notes before the
European Central Bank’s 60 billion-euro purchase program aimed
at freeing up lenders’ balance sheets ends this month. Sales of
the debt dropped to 11.1 billion euros in May, the lowest this
year, as the region’s fiscal crisis roiled investors.  
 EU Bailout  
 The European Union announced a rescue package last month of
almost $1 trillion, with support from the International Monetary
Fund, to shore up the finances of the euro area’s weakest
economies. Concern Greece, with the second-largest budget
deficit in the region after Ireland, will default, has roiled
markets.  
 “Companies, especially banks, want to diversify their
investor base and are looking at opportunities available in
different currencies,” said  Andreas Fischer , a money manager at
London & Capital Group Ltd., with $3 billion of assets under
management. “Canada is a good example of a country with a
growing economy and a sound currency.”  
 General Electric Capital Corp., the financing unit of
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, sold C$500 million of 4.24
percent five-year notes on June 3, its first loonie sale in nine
months, Bloomberg data show. Since mid-March, the company has
also issued $562 million of debt in Swiss francs, while selling
none in dollars or euros.  
 BMW Notes  
 BMW, the world’s largest luxury car maker, issued 500
million Swiss francs of 2.125 percent, five-year notes on June
2, its first sale in the currency in 2 1/2 years.  
 Issuance in the euro zone totaled 15.9 billion euros this
month, 37 percent of all offerings, up from 25 percent in May,
the smallest share since December 2006, Bloomberg data show.  
 Companies are selling a bigger proportion of bonds in
“small currencies” as issuance overall has dropped, said  Ben Bennett , who helps manage the equivalent of $125 billion of
corporate bonds as credit strategist at Legal & General
Investment Management in London.  
 “The sovereign problems mean there hasn’t been a huge
amount of issuance full stop,” he said. “Issuers have found it
more difficult to place the large deals that they’ve been used
to, so they are having to look for more specific investor
bases.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Euro notes and coins  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The euro declined to 111.61 yen as of 10:45 a.m. in Tokyo from 111.92 yen in New York yesterday, when it climbed to 112.87 yen, the highest level since June 4. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The euro declined to 111.61 yen as of 10:45 a.m. in Tokyo from 111.92 yen in New York yesterday, when it climbed to 112.87 yen, the highest level since June 4. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Nobel Prize winning economist Robert Mundell talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller and Dominic Chu about the euro and the dollar's impact on the U.S. economic recovery.
     Mundell also discusses the role of the Federal Reserve in the currency market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
