-- European Stocks Gain for Fourth Day; BHP Billiton, Weir, Axa Lead Advance
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-06-14T16:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/european-stocks-u-s-index-futures-gain-bp-axa-bhp-billiton-may-move.html

          
          
             European stocks  advanced for a
fourth day to a one-month high as a report showed the region’s
industrial production increased more than forecast in April.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  and  Rio Tinto Group  climbed more than 2.5
percent as metals increased. Weir Group Plc soared 12 percent as
the world’s biggest maker of pumps for the mining industry
forecast second-half profit to be “significantly” greater than
last year. Axa SA rallied 3.7 percent after saying it’s in talks
to sell part of its U.K. life insurance unit to  Clive Cowdery ’s
Resolution Ltd.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained 1.2 percent to 252.54,
the highest close since May 13. The gauge advanced 2 percent
last week as the Federal Reserve said it would act as needed to
support the recovery and economic reports from Japan to
Australia reassured investors. The measure has still retreated
7.2 percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid concern that
efforts by European nations to reduce their budget deficits may
harm the economy.  
 “The market is still caught between worries on sovereign
debt on the one hand and very good companies’ fundamentals on
the other hand,” said  Raimund Saxinger , a Frankfurt-based fund
manager at Frankfurt Trust Investment GmbH, which oversees about
$22 billion. “It’s currently shifting its focus more on
companies’ fundamentals and economic data again.”  
 National benchmark indexes advanced in all of the 18
western European markets, except Iceland. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 
rose 0.7 percent, Germany’s DAX climbed 1.3 percent and France’s
CAC 40 increased 2 percent.  
 Industrial Production  
 Industrial output  in the 16 nations using the euro
increased 0.8 percent in April from the month before, the
European Union’s statistics office said. Economists had
projected a gain of 0.5 percent, the median of 33 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey showed. From the year earlier, production
jumped 9.5 percent, the biggest gain since the data were first
compiled in 1991.  
 Britain’s budget deficit will be lower than expected even
as the country faces weaker economic growth than the previous
government forecast, the newly created fiscal watchdog said
today in a report prepared for the June 22 emergency budget.  
 Gross domestic product  will rise 2.6 percent next year,
instead of the 3.25 percent predicted by the Labour government
in March, the Office of Budget Responsibility said. The deficit
will narrow from 155 billion pounds ($228 billion) in this
fiscal year to 71 billion pounds by April 2015, a 22 billion-
pound improvement on the previous forecast.  
 Cheapest Level  
 The decline in global equities since April has left stocks
at the cheapest  level  relative to bonds since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., a sign that shares in the U.S.
and Europe may rally.  
 S&P 500 companies yielded 4.4 percentage points more in
profit than the average interest rate on investment-grade bonds
last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Barclays
Plc. The inflation-adjusted spread shows stocks are trading near
the lowest prices compared with corporate earnings since
November 2008 next to bonds.  
 BHP Billiton, the world’s largest mining company, gained
2.8 percent to 1,921 pence and Rio Tinto, the third-biggest,
advanced 3 percent to 3,312 pence. Aluminum, copper, lead,
nickel, tin and zinc rose on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Salzgitter AG, Germany’s second-biggest steelmaker,
advanced 4.4 percent to 51.34 euros as UBS AG raised its stance
on the shares to “neutral” from “sell.”  ThyssenKrupp AG , the
nation’s largest steelmaker, rose 2.4 percent to 21.56 euros.  
 Weir, Alstom  
 Weir climbed 12 percent to 1,066 pence, leading a measure
of  industrial goods  companies to the second-biggest gain among
19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600. The company said it expects
second-half profit to be “significantly” ahead of the same
period last year in constant-currency terms.  
 Alstom SA surged 5.9 percent to 39.79 euros as shares of
the world’s third-largest power-equipment maker were added to
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research’s “Europe 1” list.  
 Groupe Eurotunnel SA climbed 3.9 percent to 6.38 euros. The
operator of the undersea rail tunnel linking Britain and France
acquired GB Railfreight Ltd. from FirstGroup Plc to expand its
freight business.  
 Axa advanced 3.7 percent to 13.60 euros. Europe’s second-
biggest insurer said it’s in talks to sell part of its U.K. life
insurance unit to Resolution for 2.75 billion pounds ($4
billion). Under the proposed transaction, Axa would receive 2.25
billion pounds in cash and the remainder in senior deferred
consideration notes, the Paris-based company said.  
 Genmab Gains  
 Genmab  A/S jumped 33 percent to 58.15 kroner, the most
since at least October 2000. Peter Aabo, an analyst at
BiotekAnalyse, said the Danish biotechnology company is
significantly undervalued, making it a takeover target for
GlaxoSmithKline Plc.  
 BP Plc limited gains in the Stoxx 600, slumping 9.3 percent
to 355.45 pence, the lowest level since October 2008. Industry
and regulatory analysts said the company may lose control of its
U.S. oil and natural gas wells and be barred from doing business
with the federal government as punishment for the worst oil
spill in U.S. history.  
 The fastest-growing bet on BP shares in the U.S. stock-
options market shows traders expect a 63 percent plunge in about
a month as costs related to the well spewing oil into the Gulf
of Mexico surge.  
 Club Med Climbs  
 Club Mediterranee SA  rallied 9.1 percent to 13.75 euros, a
fifth advance for the longest winning streak in more than three
months. Europe’s largest resort operator said China’s Fosun
International Ltd. acquired a 7.1 percent stake in the French
resorts operator and the companies will form an alliance to help
Club Med open resorts in China.  
 Pfleiderer AG surged 20 percent to 4.41 euros, the biggest
increase since 2002. The German maker of laminate flooring
expects to return to profit next year as prices and markets
recover, WirtschaftsWoche reported, citing Chief Executive
Officer  Hans Overdiek .  
 Smiths Group Plc , the world’s biggest maker of airport
scanners, increased 3.6 percent to 1,105 pence. The EU imposed a
five-year tariff on cargo-scanning equipment from China to help
Smiths Group compete against cheaper imports.  
 BASF SE rose 1.9 percent to 45.75 euros as the EU renewed a
tariff on ammonium nitrate from Ukraine for a second time to
help EU producers including Germany’s BASF compete against
cheaper imports.  
 Wienerberger AG  climbed 6.8 percent to 11.82 euros as HSBC
Holdings Plc upgraded the shares of the world’s biggest brick
maker to “overweight” from “neutral.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        