-- European Industrial Output Rises More Than Estimated Amid Demand for Steel
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-06-14T09:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/european-industrial-output-rises-more-than-forecast-on-intermediate-goods.html

          
          
             European  industrial production 
increased more than economists forecast in April, led by demand
for intermediate goods such as steel and car engines.  
 Output in the economy of the 16 nations using the euro rose
0.8 percent from March, the European Union’s  statistics office 
in Luxembourg said today. Economists had projected a gain of 0.5
percent, the median of 33 estimates in a  Bloomberg survey 
showed. From a year earlier,  April production  jumped 9.5
percent, the biggest gain since the data started in 1991.  
 Reviving exports are helping to fuel the euro-area
economy’s expansion as consumers curb spending.  Continental AG ,
Europe’s second-largest car-parts maker, on June 10 raised its
full-year sales forecast. Still, European  manufacturing growth 
slowed in May and European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last week that the  euro region  may expand at an
“uneven pace” this year.  
 “The recovery in the export-sensitive industrial sector
has been little affected so far by the region’s fiscal woes,”
said  Martin van Vliet , an economist at ING Group in Amsterdam.
“Euro-zone industry should continue to benefit from the
recovery in global demand, helped by the recent weakening of the
euro.”  
 The 16-nation currency has fallen 15 percent against the
dollar this year on concern governments’ measures to tackle
swollen budget deficits may hamper economic growth in the
region. The euro was little changed after the output data,
trading at $1.2238 at 10:26 a.m. in London, up 1 percent.  
 Intermediate Goods  
 Production of intermediate goods rose 2.2 percent in April
from March, when it gained 1.1 percent, today’s report showed.
Output of  capital goods  such as factory machinery increased 1.1
percent in April, while energy production fell 0.9 percent in
the month.  
 Emerging economies are leading a worldwide rebound. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said on
May 26 that the global economy may grow 4.6 percent this year
with China seen expanding more than 11 percent. In India, the
economy may grow 8.3 percent in 2010 and Brazil may expand 6.5
percent, the Paris-based group said.  
 Hanover, Germany-based  Continental  said last week that it
expects full-year sales to rise more than 10 percent after
business through May was stronger than expected. Paris-based  PSA
Peugeot Citroen , Europe’s second-largest carmaker, said on June
2 that it aims to achieve stable sales in the region this year.  
 In the 27-member EU, industrial output increased 0.5
percent in the month and 7.8 percent from April 2009, according
to today’s report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        