-- Leveraged Loans Outperform Junk Bonds as Buyers Favor Higher-Ranked Debt
-- Patricia Kuo
-- 2010-06-14T09:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/leveraged-loans-outperform-junk-bonds-as-investors-flee-lower-ranked-debt.html

          
          
             Leveraged loans are outperforming
high-yield bonds in Europe as investors flee riskier debt on
concern the region’s budget deficit crisis will hurt companies’
ability to repay borrowings.  
 Bids for loans used to fund buyouts and speculative grade
borrowers fell 2.9 percent to 93.7 since May 6, according to
Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary & Data. High-yield bonds
that rank behind loans for repayment lost 9.4 percent, according
to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  
 “Leveraged loans is a relatively more stable asset class
that will deliver what you want,” said  Alex Moss , a London-
based fund manager at Insight Investment Management. Most
investors “won’t sell because they know they are most likely to
get their money back in this senior secured investment.”  
 Corporate earnings are under threat by spending cuts and
tax increases from governments seeking to plug budget gaps that
prompted the European Union to announce a 750 billion-euro ($962
billion) rescue package May 10.  
 Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below BBB-
and Baa3. Private-equity firms pay for takeovers by loading a
target company with debt and using its cash flow to repay
lenders, causing the company’s ratings to fall below investment
grade.  
 Volume Triples  
 Private-equity firms including Carlyle Group in New York
and Cinven Ltd. in London have helped triple the amount of loans
used to fund buyouts worldwide to $16.6 billion, compared with
an increase of 2.4 times for high-yield bonds, Bloomberg data
show.  
 Carlyle, the world’s second-largest private-equity firm, is
planning 275 million euros of debt for its acquisition of French
heat-exchanger maker Giannoni, its first European buyout in
almost two years. The six-year 122.5 million-euro portion pays
interest of 425 basis points more than benchmark lending rates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Novacap, a chemical group owned by Boston-based private-
equity firm Bain Capital LLC, said on June 4 it got 130 million
euros of loans to refinance debt and pay its owner a dividend.  
 “We still see investment opportunities in the secured loan
asset class,” said  David Milward , London-based head of loans at
Henderson Global Investors Ltd.  
 10 Percent Rise  
 Average loan bids rose 9.6 percent in the past year to 93.7
percent, S&P LCD data show. With one-fifth of the 500 billion-
euro market trading below 80 percent of face value, there is a
chance to profit from further increases, Milward said.  
 Henderson, which oversees 1.3 billion euros of loan funds
globally, sees value in the loans of companies like New Look
Group Ltd., Kwik-Fit Group Ltd., the U.K. auto repair chain
owned by Paris-based buyout firm PAI Partners, and Ineos Group
Holdings Plc, he said.  
 Senior loans prices of British retail chain New Look were
quoted at between 92 percent and 94 percent of face value,
compared with 96.5 percent at the end of April. Kwik-Fit was at
90 to 91 percent, down from 93.5 percent, while Ineos was quoted
at between 94 and 95 percent, compared with 98, according to
Cantor Fitzgerald LP prices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        