-- Ex-Goldman Sachs Risk-Management Head Weinstein Said to Start Hedge Fund
-- Kristen Haunss
-- 2010-06-14T16:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/ex-goldman-sachs-risk-management-head-weinstein-said-to-start-hedge-fund.html

          
          
             Gregg Weinstein , a former global
head of risk management for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s
investment management division, is establishing RocWood Capital
Management LP, an event-driven hedge fund.  
 The firm, based in New York, will begin marketing in July
with the aim of starting to invest in the third quarter,
according to a person familiar with the discussions, who
declined to be identified because RocWood’s plans aren’t public.
The fund doesn’t have a target size, the person said.  
 It will invest across the corporate capital structure,
seeking mispriced investments following a particular catalyst,
the person said.  Brandy Bergman , a spokeswoman for the RocWood,
declined to comment.  
 RocWood has seven employees and plans a staff of twelve by
the fund’s launch, the person said. It will expand as assets
under management grow, the person said.  
 Weinstein, 45, left Goldman Sachs in December after 17
years, said  Andrea Raphael , a Goldman spokeswoman. He held a
variety of jobs, including overseeing U.S. investment-grade
credit trading and convertible bonds. He was promoted to partner
in 2002, according to a  news release  at the time.  
 There were 254 new funds launched in the first quarter of
the year, up from 230 during the fourth quarter of 2009. There
were 240 funds liquidated last quarter, up from 165 liquidated
the previous quarter, according to a report released June 8 from
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  
 The number of funds launched has been rising since the
fourth quarter of 2008, when 56 funds were launched and 778 were
liquidated, according to the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        