-- Big 12 Staves off Collapse as Texas, Oklahoma, A&M Commit to Conference
-- Curtis Eichelberger
-- 2010-06-15T02:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/texas-agrees-to-remain-in-big-12-passing-on-move-to-pac-10-conference.html

          
          
             The  Big 12  has staved off the
possibility of collapse after the  University of Texas , Oklahoma,
Texas A&M and Oklahoma State committed their futures to the
conference that last week lost two members.  
 Texas rejected a move to the Pacific-10 after Big 12
Commissioner  Dan Beebe  agreed to “drastically” increase
television payouts to the school and allow the Longhorns to set
up their own local television network and keep the proceeds, the
New York Times reported.  
 “There’s certainly more television-driven decision
making,” said  Rick Horrow , a sports consultant who has helped
negotiate more than 100 public/private stadium-finance
agreements. “The individual schools will have much more
leverage in the future because of this process.”  
 Horrow is a contributing editor to Bloomberg Television.  
 Texas will hold a conference call with reporters at 10 a.m.
central time today, the school said in a  statement  on their
website announcing the decision yesterday. Shortly afterwards,
 Oklahoma ,  Texas A&M  and  Oklahoma State  said they would stay in
the Big 12. The other conference members are Texas Tech, Kansas,
Missouri, Kansas State, Iowa State and Baylor.  
 The future of the Big 12 was put in doubt five days ago
when the  University of Colorado  said it will abandon the
conference for the  Pac-10 , which also made offers to Tech,
Oklahoma and Oklahoma State, according to ESPN. The Pac-10 is
also interested in adding the University of Utah, the
broadcaster said.  
 Pac-10 Expansion  
 “We are excited about the future of the Pac-10 conference
and we will continue to evaluate future expansion
opportunities,” Commissioner  Larry Scott  said in a statement
yesterday.  
 The day after Colorado said it was leaving the Big 12,
The University of Nebraska announced it too will quit the
conference to become the 12th member of the  Big Ten  conference
from July 1, 2011.  
 The Pac-10 wants to attract members to create lucrative
championships and regional sports networks that can charge
higher fees to cable companies for programming.  
 Had the Longhorns accepted their invitation to join the
Pac-10, the conference was expected to have begun its own
television network, the New York Times said. Texas would have
been prohibited from operating its own local network, costing
the school millions of dollars every year, the report said.  
 Cable TV Deal  
 Under a new cable TV accord between the Big 12 and Fox
Sports, Texas may receive about $20 million a year,  the Dallas
Morning News reported on its website . A Longhorns-owned local
network may eventually generate another $5 million, it said.  
 The Big Ten has a sports network, while the Big 12 doesn’t.
The  Pac-10  will begin discussing a new television agreement at
the end of the year and has hired Creative Artists Agency to
handle the negotiations.  
 The Big 12 was formed in 1996 when the Big 8 merged with
four members of the Southwest Conference.  
 Texas’s football program is among the most storied in the
sport, producing Heisman Trophy winners  Earl Campbell  in 1977
and  Ricky Williams  in 1998, and national championships in 1963,
1969 and 2005.  
 Also in the past two weeks, Boise State University in Idaho
joined the Mountain West Conference from the Western Athletic
Conference.  
 All 31 conference commissioners will be in Half Moon Bay,
California, this week for the Collegiate Commissioners
Association’s annual meeting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        