-- Mexican Gunmen Kill 10 Police Officers in Michoacan
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-06-14T23:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/mexican-gunmen-kill-10-police-in-michoacan-as-prison-riot-leaves-17-dead.html

          
          
             Mexican gunmen killed 10 police
officers and injured several more in Michoacan state while 28
prisoners were killed in a jail in Sinaloa state.  
 Federal police forces are conducting ground and air
searches for the perpetrators of the attack on the officers in
the city of Zitacuaro, the Public Security Ministry said in a
statement. The police were traveling from Michoacan state toward
Mexico City when their convoy was ambushed, it said.  
 Hours after that incident, 28 inmates were killed in a
prison riot in the city of  Mazatlan , said Martin Gastelum,
spokesman for the attorney general’s office in Sinaloa state.
Two police officers were wounded, he said.  
 Violence in the region is reaching new highs, causing
residents of cities such as Ciudad Juarez, which borders El
Paso, to abandon their homes and their cities, said Tony Payan,
a political science professor at the  University of Texas at El
Paso . About 25 percent of homes in Ciudad Juarez are abandoned,
Payan said today in a telephone interview.  
 “This is on pace to be the most violent month in the
Calderon administration,” said Payan, who also teaches at the
Autonomous University of Ciudad Juarez. “This is one of the
bloodiest periods in Mexican history.”  
 Execution-Style  
 On June 11, Mexican officials found 20 people shot dead in
Ciudad Madero in Tamaulipas state, and criminals killed 19
people on June 9 in an execution-style attack at a drug
rehabilitation center in the northern state of Chihuahua.  
 Still, most of Mexico’s violence is concentrated in border
regions such as Ciudad Juarez and Tamaulipas state, which also
borders Texas, Payan said. As many as 90 percent of the victims
are “closely tied” to the illegal drug trade, he added.  
 “Public perception is principally focused on the body count
-- that people are being killed right and left,” Payan said.
“Most of the violence continues to be tied to the drug
business.”  
 More than 22,000 people have been killed in Mexico in
violence related to organized crime since President  Felipe Calderon  took office in December 2006, according to the U.S.
State Department. Michoacan, a state in central Mexico west of
the capital, is the home base for the La Familia drug gang and
was the site of a grenade attack that killed eight people during
an Independence Day celebration in 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        