-- Exxon, Chevron Seek Reprieve From `Crucifixion' in Gulf
-- Joe Carroll
-- 2010-06-14T19:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/exxon-chevron-seek-reprieve-from-crucifixion-in-gulf.html

          
          
             Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp. and
ConocoPhillips, the largest U.S. oil companies, will ask
lawmakers not to punish them for the human and environmental
damage inflicted by BP Plc’s oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Exxon  Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson ,  Chevron  CEO
 John Watson  and  James Mulva , CEO of  ConocoPhillips , are
scheduled to appear tomorrow before a House Energy and Commerce
Committee panel examining offshore drilling safety and U.S.
energy policy.  
 The hearing presents the U.S. oil CEOs with an opportunity
to distance their companies from BP, said  Anthony Sabino , who
teaches oil and natural-gas law at St. John’s University in New
York. BP has lost 43 percent of its market value since the
disaster and has been excoriated by President  Barack Obama  for
repeated failures to cap the leaking well.  
 “A crucifixion of the whole oil industry for the sins of
BP in the form of a ban on deep-water drilling isn’t a good idea
because look at all the people it’s going to put out of work,”
Sabino said. “ Exxon  and  ConocoPhillips  will stress their own
safety records to make that case.”  
 Since an April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig that killed 11 workers, more than 50 million
gallons of crude have poured into the Gulf from a BP-owned well,
based on calculations from a government panel.  
 Obama Meeting  
 The U.S. government has intensified pressure on BP to stop
the spill and pay for damages. Obama has asked to meet June 16
with BP’s chairman,  Carl-Henric Svanberg , and other company
officials. BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward  will appear
before the House Energy and Commerce oversight committee the
following day.  
 The oil company CEOs have been asked to testify tomorrow
about the spill’s effect on U.S. energy policy, Eben Burnham-
Snyder, a spokesman for Representative  Edward Markey , said June
9. Markey is a Massachusetts Democrat and chairman of the
subcommittee holding the hearing.  
 The executives may also be pressed to explain dividend
payouts and share buyback programs that have dwarfed their
investments in alternatives to petroleum, such as solar and
wind, according to a June 12 memorandum written by Congressional
staff and distributed to lawmakers who will participate in
tomorrow’s hearing.  
 Executive Pleas  
 Tillerson, Watson and Mulva probably will ask lawmakers to
avoid changes in offshore drilling rules that could discourage
exploration in U.S. territorial waters without making meaningful
contributions to safety, said  Gianna Bern , president of
Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in Flossmoor, Illinois,
which advises oil companies on strategy and risk management.  
 Tillerson will tell lawmakers that an investigation needs
to determine if BP took risks “beyond industry norms,”
according to prepared remarks he’s scheduled to deliver during
tomorrow’s hearing. Proper well design, redundant safety systems
and regular maintenance and tests help mitigate the risks
involved in drilling miles below sea level for oil and natural
gas, he said.  
 Kurt Glaubitz , a spokesman for Chevron, based in San Ramon,
California, said he couldn’t immediately comment.  Nancy Turner ,
a spokeswoman for Houston-based ConocoPhillips, said in an e-
mail that the company wouldn’t release Mulva’s prepared remarks.  
 More than 30 deep-water rigs have been ordered to cease
drilling off the coasts of Louisiana and Texas for at least six
months while federal officials conduct a review of offshore
safety practices. The Gulf accounts for  30 percent  of U.S. oil
production, according to the Energy Information Administration.  
 Drilling Pause  
 The drilling halt may cut oil production in the Gulf by as
much as 11 percent next year, said  Paul Cheng , a Barclays
Capital analyst.  
 “These executives need to explain to the politicians that
if you permanently shut us down in the deep water it’s going to
wreak havoc with energy production and put the United States
even more at the mercy of foreign oil producers,” Sabino said.  
 Also scheduled to appear before tomorrow’s panel are  Lamar McKay  and  Marvin Odum , the presidents of the U.S. units of BP
and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, respectively.  
 Lawmakers may ask Exxon, Chevron, ConocoPhillips and Shell
to describe safety measures they have used offshore to avoid the
sort of disaster BP faced, said Bern, a former BP crude trader.  
 Exxon, which pumps more crude than every member of OPEC
except Saudi Arabia, Iran and Iraq, abandoned an exploration
project known as Blackbeard in the Gulf of Mexico in 2007 rather
than risk a blowout. The company quit the project, which sought
to drill more than six miles (9.7 kilometers) beneath the
seafloor, after repeated pressure surges indicated the well was
unstable.  
 Controlling Macondo  
 BP engineers alerted federal regulators at the Minerals
Management Service that they were having difficulty controlling
the Macondo well six weeks before the disaster, according to e-
mails released by the Energy and Commerce Committee.  
 “I don’t think this would have happened on Exxon’s
watch,”  Tom Bower , author of “The Squeeze: Oil, Money and
Greed in the 21st Century,” said in a June 11 Bloomberg
Television interview. “They’d be much more careful and much
more conscious of the need to supervise subcontractors.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Washington at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson and other oil company executives appear at a hearing tomorrow on Capitol Hill. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
