-- Faurecia Share-Price Move, Disclosures Are Examined by French Regulators
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-06-14T17:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/faurecia-stock-movement-reviewed-by-french-regulator-after-analyst-meeting.html

          
          
             Faurecia SA ’s stock movements are
being examined by France’s AMF market watchdog after the car-
parts maker gave a series of presentations to analysts in
Paris today.  
 Officials at the Autorite des Marches Financiers are
looking at the reasons for an  increase  of as much as 6 percent
in the share price and how that relates to the company’s
financial communications on its investor day, AMF spokeswoman
 Christine Anglade  said by telephone.  
 Faurecia’s first public statement, announcing a sales
target, was made available more than one hour after the 10:30
a.m. scheduled start of an analyst presentation in Paris that
was closed to the media. The stock had risen as much as 4
percent by 11 a.m. A second statement, which gave a profit-
margin forecast, was published more than 40 minutes after the
stock peaked at 14.97 euros, a 6 percent intraday gain.  
 AMF officials contacted Faurecia about the investor
presentations, Anglade said.  
 “We told them not to communicate during trading hours, and
secondly to put the slides online,” she said.  
 The company was also advised that some of its information
was “incomplete,” Anglade told Bloomberg News. According to
the watchdog’s guidelines, companies listed in Paris are asked
to post all analyst presentations online simultaneously.  
 Faurecia had no immediate comment on AMF’s remarks,
spokesman  Olivier Le Friec  said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg.  
 Revenue, Margin  
 Based in the Paris suburb of Nanterre, Faurecia today
announced a 16 billion-euro ($19.7 billion)  revenue  forecast for
2014 and an operating-margin target in the range of 5 percent to
6 percent.  
 Faurecia ended today’s trading in Paris at 14.83 euros, or
5 percent higher. The stock has declined 3.7 percent this year,
valuing the company at 1.64 billion euros.  
 PSA Peugeot Citroen, France’s largest carmaker, owns about
57 percent of Faurecia. The carmaker has no comment, spokesman
 Hugues Dufour  said by phone.  
 As part of the monitoring process, the AMF seeks to
establish “whether there are explanations and whether there
have been any leaks,” Anglade said. “When the explanations
aren’t satisfactory, we open an investigation.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        