-- Faurecia, Valeo Plan Takeovers as Car-Parts Industry Mergers to Pick Up
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-06-14T17:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/faurecia-valeo-plan-takeovers-as-car-parts-industry-mergers-to-pick-up.html

          
          
             European auto-parts makers are
entering a “wave of consolidation,” a leading consulting firm
said today, as France’s  Faurecia SA  announced plans to add 2.2
billion euros ($2.7 billion) in sales through takeovers.  
 About 54 percent of the region’s component suppliers were
facing “financial difficulty” in 2009, compared with 22
percent a year earlier, AlixPartners LLP said in a report. About
7 percent of European automotive suppliers are profitable and
have little debt, making them potential players in a
restructuring of the region’s industry, said Vincenz Schwegmann,
who heads AlixPartners’s auto team in Europe.  
 “Typically what happens is that these companies are either
taken over by competitors or broken up and the pieces sold,”
Schwegmann said in a telephone interview.  
 Faurecia, Europe’s largest maker of automotive interiors,
became the second major supplier in the past month to signal its
interest in overseas acquisitions. Paris-based  Valeo SA  has
hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch to evaluate options that may
include takeovers, people familiar with the matter said June 4.  
 “Large numbers of financially distressed companies also
mean outstanding opportunities for takeovers and growth,” New
York-based AlixPartners said in its study of 300 suppliers and
70 car and truckmakers globally, including about 70 parts
 manufacturers  in Europe.  
 Shares Jump  
 Faurecia, based in the Paris suburb of Nanterre, told
investors today that it plans to increase sales to 16 billion
euros by 2014, a 72 percent gain from the 9.3 billion euros it
posted last year.  
 The share of sales recorded  outside Europe  will rise to 42
percent from 23 percent, Faurecia said. Two-thirds of the
overall revenue increase will come from the improved performance
of existing businesses, according to a company statement,
leaving 2.2 billion euros to be generated from external growth,
including acquisitions.  
 Faurecia  rose  70.5 cents, or 5 percent, to 14.83 euros in
Paris, valuing the company at 1.6 billion euros.  PSA Peugeot
Citroen , which owns 57 percent of Faurecia, added 3.6 percent to
22.20 euros.  
 Valeo, France’s second-largest carparts maker,  added  45.5
cents, or 1.8 percent, to 25.65 euros, giving the company a
market value of 2 billion euros.  
 The evaluation of Valeo focuses on acquisitions of rival
businesses or entire companies, rather than a sale of the parts
maker, people familiar with the company said June 4.  
 Catalytic Converter  
 Faurecia added to its catalytic-converter lineup last year
with the purchase of Troy, Michigan-based competitor Emcon
Technologies. The French company also  bought assets  from Plastal
GmbH, an insolvent German maker of plastic auto parts.  
 The U.S. component sector has already undergone a “massive
and extensive” reorganization as global vehicle production
slumped to 63.3 million vehicles last year from 69.5 million in
2007, AlixPartners said in its report.  
 In Europe, government-backed incentives that cushioned a
slump for carmakers and parts suppliers are expiring and have
“failed to solve the structural issues,” according to the
report.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        