-- FIFA Investigates Reason for Empty Seats at Port Elizabeth World Cup Game
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-06-14T13:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/fifa-probes-reason-for-thousands-of-empty-seats-at-world-cup-game.html

          
          
             FIFA , soccer’s governing body, and
South African organizers of the World Cup are investigating
transportation plans in Port Elizabeth after thousands of seats
were empty at a June 12 soccer game between South Korea and
Greece.  
 “There is an investigation into transport arrangements at
the game in Port Elizabeth,”  Rich Mkhondo , chief communications
officer of the World Cup Organizing Committee, said in an
interview from his mobile phone today. FIFA aims to find out
“why people who bought tickets didn’t come.”  
 At least 8,000 of the more than 39,000 seats for which FIFA
said it sold tickets were empty, Johannesburg-based Business Day
newspaper reported today. Companies bought some of the tickets,
Mkhondo said. The  Nelson Mandela Bay stadium  has a capacity to
seat about 45,000, according to FIFA.  
 The World Cup, which began on June 11, is the first to be
held in Africa. The government has spent about 43 billion rand
($5.6 billion) on stadiums, transportation and other
infrastructure in preparation for the tournament.  
 The opening game between South African and Mexico in
Soweto, Johannesburg was almost full, as was the June 12 game
between England and the U.S. in Rustenburg.  
 Empty Seats  
 “It’s not nice to see empty seats at World Cup stadiums
but you have to look at the bigger picture, the attendance
average is pretty high,”  Nicolas Maingot , a spokesman for FIFA,
told reporters at the Soccer City stadium in Soweto today.
“We’re not talking about unsold tickets. We’re looking at sold
tickets that weren’t filled.”  
 The first seven games of the World Cup averaged 91.9
percent of the stadiums’ “gross capacity,” according to FIFA
statistics. The Port Elizabeth match, at 74.2 percent, and the
match between Algeria and Slovenia, at 73.6 percent, had the
lowest attendance figures.  
 The matches between England and the U.S. in Rustenburg,
Argentina versus Nigeria at Ellis Park stadium in Johannesburg,
Uruguay against France in Cape Town and Germany versus Australia
in Durban had attendances of close to 100 percent.  
 Rustenburg, with a gross capacity of 38,646, is the smallest
stadium while Soccer City, at 88,460, is the biggest.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Antony Sguazzin  in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Baynes  in Durban through the Johannesburg newsroom 
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        