-- Flaherty and Provinces Agree to Consider Boosting Public Pension Benefits
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-06-14T20:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/flaherty-and-provinces-agree-to-consider-boosting-public-pension-benefits.html

          
          
             Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and most of his provincial counterparts agreed to look
at boosting contributions and benefits for the country’s
national public pension system and to increase the role of
financial institutions in running pension plans.  
 “The substantive majority view was that we should
proceed,” Flaherty told reporters after a two-day meeting with
his provincial counterparts in Charlottetown, Prince Edward
Island.  
 Flaherty said the ministers will consider whether to
proceed with “a modest, phased-in and fully funded” increase
to the  Canada Pension Plan , a mandatory system in which workers
and employers contribute, when they meet again in the fall. They
will also look at how to give banks and insurance companies more
scope in providing pension plans for multiple employers or the
self-employed, he said.  
 The agreement to strengthen the national system comes over
the objection of Alberta, and follows a call by the Canadian
Labour Congress for the provincial and federal governments to
double CPP benefits. A study released  last week  by Toronto-
Dominion Bank showed a significant share of Canadians aren’t
saving enough to maintain their standard of living after they
retire.  
 Majority Support  
 Alberta Finance Minister  Ted Morton  said his province
opposed expanding the Canada Pension Plan because it’s an over-
reaction to the need to boost retirement income, and the higher
deductions would be a “job killer” payroll tax that puts an
unfair burden on future generations.  
 The proposals can proceed over Alberta’s objections as long
as two-thirds of Canada’s provinces, representing two-thirds of
the population, are in favor. Quebec Finance Minister  Raymond Bachand , from Canada’s second-most populous province, said his
government would study the idea, but didn’t say whether he
approved.  
 Flaherty declined to detail the extent of the agreement.
Ontario Finance Minister  Dwight Duncan , a proponent of expanding
the plan, used a golf analogy to describe the process. “We’re
on a long par 5 with a lot of hazards but we’re moving the ball
forward,” Duncan told reporters. “I’m confident that we’ll get
in below par.”  
 Flaherty told reporters that ministers rejected the idea of
a new government-administered voluntary plan, because it would
be too expensive to administer, as well as the plan to double
benefits, which would provide a 50 percent replacement of income
instead of the  current  25 percent of up to C$47,200.  
 ‘Broad Strategy’  
 “Improving the CPP is positive -- there’s a lot of merit
to that approach,” said Toronto-Dominion Bank Chief Economist
 Craig Alexander . “It’s a good component to a broad strategy,”
that should include measures targeted at people who are “at
risk” of suffering a drop in income, he said.  
 Alexander estimated that about 25 percent of future
retirees, mostly in the middle of the income distribution,
aren’t saving enough to replace 70 percent of their  pre-
retirement income .  
 “I give the governments high marks for tackling the
issue,” because they’re dealing with a problem that is many
decades away, Alexander said, citing the fact that Canada has
the fourth lowest poverty rate for seniors among industrialized
countries.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island
at   adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        