-- Foxconn Chief's Brother to Open 100 China Apple Stores; Chang Uei Advances
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-06-14T12:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/foxconn-chief-s-brother-to-open-100-china-apple-stores-chang-uei-advances.html

          
          
             T.C. Gou , whose brother is grappling
with a spate of suicides at Apple Inc. supplier Foxconn
Technology Group, plans to open 100 stores to sell Mac computers
and iPod music players in China.  
 Gou’s  Cheng Uei Precision Industry Co.  jumped its 6.9
percent limit in Taipei trading after the company confirmed
plans to open its first Apple retail outlet in Shanghai by
yearend. Taipei-based Cheng Uei aims for 100 stores in China
within three years, investor relations spokesman T.P. Liu said
by phone today.  
 The component-maker’s plan may help  Apple  add market share
in China, where retail sales jumped 18.7 percent in May and
which is forecast to be the biggest PC market by 2013. Foxconn,
the assembler of Apple iPhones founded by  Terry Gou , has raised
salaries, hired counselors and installed nets near dormitories
after at least 10 workers killed themselves at its China
factories this year.  
 “He’s following the same strategy as his older brother,”
said  Lu Chia-lin , who rates Cheng Uei “underperform” at
Macquarie Group Ltd. “The rationale is since they help make the
products, they can also help sell them.”  
 Premium Reseller  
 Cheng Uei currently operates more than 20 “ Studio A ”
Apple Premium Reseller stores in Taiwan and Hong Kong as a 51
percent owner of Studio A Inc., Liu said. Studio A contributes
less than 1 percent of Cheng Uei’s revenues, said Liu, who
declined to provide a forecast for the retail unit or say how
much it plans to invest in China.  
 The company will open 100 Studio A stores in Greater China,
which includes China, Taiwan and Hong Kong, by the end of next
year, the  China Times  reported earlier today, citing Gou.  
 A supplier of components for Apple’s iPhone and  Microsoft
Corp.  games consoles, Cheng Uei President and Chairman T.C. Gou,
56, has followed Foxconn into the final-assembly business,
including manufacturing handsets for Huawei Technologies Co.  
 Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. , the flagship of the Foxconn
Technology Group, plans to open retail stores in China, and in
April won a bid to operate the Guanghua Electronics Market,
Taipei’s largest retail venue for electronics.  
 China’s PC sales volume will rise an average of 18 percent
annually during the next five years, compared with 8 percent
globally, and the nation will be the world’s biggest computer
market by 2013, according to Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC
Corp.  
 Labor groups accused Foxconn of operating a sweatshop after
worker suicides prompted Terry Gou, 59, to open his factories to
the largest media gathering in company history. Gou denied his
company is a sweatshop.  
 Asia excluding Japan provided less than 8 percent of
Apple’s revenue last year, according to  Bloomberg data . Apple
ranks outside the top five PC vendors in China, trailing Lenovo
Group Ltd. and Hewlett-Packard Co., according to Beijing-based
CCID Consulting.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        