-- France May Buy Unmanned Predators From U.S., Snubbing Dassault Aviation
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-06-14T15:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/french-government-is-considering-purchase-of-predator-drone-morin-says.html

          
          
             The French government is talking to
the U.S. about a possible purchase of Predator drones made by
 General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc. , Defense Minister
 Herve Morin  said.  
 A representative of France’s arms purchasing agency, the
 Direction Generale de l’Armement , will travel to the U.S. this
afternoon to talk with government authorities there about
purchase conditions, including possible technology transfers,
Morin told journalists at a briefing today at the Eurosatory
arms trade fair outside of Paris.  
 “I want to have all options on the table,” Morin said,
adding that he’d be “happy” if he could get a French or
European solution that fits his budget.  
 Any purchase of unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones, by the
French government may draw fire from  Dassault Aviation , the
French fighter-plane maker that has been working on various UAV
technologies since 2000. The Predator is one of three unmanned
drone models used in Iraq and Afghanistan by the U.S. Air Force.  
 “This could have consequences for the capacity of French
and other European manufacturers to master vital technologies of
national interest needed for developing drones,” Dassault
spokesman  Yves Robins  said in an interview, also at Eurosatory.
European solutions exist, he said, and “if it’s urgent, there
are European interim solutions.”  
 Global unmanned aircraft sales are estimated to almost
double in the next decade to about $8.7 billion a year because
of rising needs for monitoring threats including terrorists and
pirates, according to aviation consultant Teal Group.  
 ‘Little Eagle’  
 Dassault, which builds Rafale combat jets and Falcon
corporate aircraft, test-flew its first drone, or UAV, called
“le petit duc,” or “little eagle,” in 2000.  
 In 2003 it won a French government  contract  to develop
unpiloted combat planes, as the country sought to catch up with
the U.S. in preparing for an era when fighters will be mainly
controlled from outside the plane. The project, called Neuron,
now proceeding in cooperation with five other countries, is
scheduled for a first flight in 2012.  
 In 2008, Dassault, French military electronics maker Thales
SA, and Spain’s Indra Sistemas SA decided to jointly develop
unmanned aerial vehicles, submitting an offer to supply medium-
altitude, long-endurance drones to the French and Spanish armed
forces. No decision has been made. Dassault last year increased
its  stake  in Thales to 26 percent.  
 EADS Project  
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. , the parent of
Airbus SAS, is also working on a UAV, which it calls Talarion.  
 France has been discussing a possible purchase with the
U.S., as it seeks to fill a gap caused by mechanical problems in
the existing French fleet of drones, magazine Le Point reported
as early as October 2009.  
 Morin also said France has no intention of cutting its
order for A400M military transport planes built by Airbus
Military, a division of EADS.  
 Morin added that budgetary constraints will force him to
seek options for cutting expenses, though he didn’t specify how
big the cuts would be.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francois De Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse, France  at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        