-- Gazprom Profits Yielding Three Times Bonds Signal Micex Rally on Economy
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-06-15T15:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/gazprom-profits-yielding-three-times-bonds-signal-micex-rally-on-economy.html

          
          
             Russian corporate bonds are trading
at the most expensive level compared with stocks since January
2009, just before the Micex equity index began its biggest rally
in a decade.  
 Company debt  returned  136 percent since bottoming in
October 2008 in the global financial crisis, the most in
emerging markets after Kazakhstan, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. The rally pushed down the yield on JPMorgan’s  Corporate EMBI
Russia Index  to 7.1 percent versus a 12 percent yield on  profits 
of Micex companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The last time Russian earnings topped bond yields by such a
margin, the stock index jumped 79 percent in four months.
Similar gaps in January 2008 and June 2005 also preceded equity
rallies. While the Micex is down 13 percent from its 2010 high
on concern Europe’s debt crisis will damage the global recovery,
analysts are forecasting a 43 percent increase in Russian
company  earnings  spurred by economic growth that Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. says will reach 5.8 percent this year.  
 “Low bond yields reflect the fact that corporate earnings
are strong and default risks are perceived to be much lower than
they were,”  Liam Halligan , the chief economist at Prosperity
Capital Management in London, which oversees about $4.2 billion
in Russia and the CIS region, said in an interview. “Given
that, Russian equity does seem undervalued.”  
 Gazprom, Sberbank  
 OAO Gazprom , Russia’s state-controlled gas producer, has an
estimated earnings yield, or income relative to its share price,
of 21 percent while its dollar bonds due April 2019 are
returning 7.3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 OAO Severstal , the nation’s largest steelmaker, will yield
10 percent in profits this year, based on nine analyst forecasts
on Bloomberg, while its U.S. currency debt due July 2013 has a
payout of 7.3 percent. Shares of OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest
lender, yield an estimated 9.5 percent in earnings, compared
with the 4.7 percent on its dollar notes due July 2013.  
 The Micex index advanced 2.6 percent today for the biggest
gain among benchmark gauges in the world’s 50 biggest markets.
Gazprom shares rose 2.1 percent, Severstal climbed 3.8 percent
and Sberbank jumped 5.1 percent.  
 Global Slowdown  
 “Given the significant fall in Russian bond yields over
the past 18 months, Russian stocks may provide a more attractive
opportunity for those who believe that Russia will emerge
strongly from the current market weakness,”  Hans-Joerg Rudloff ,
the chairman of Barclays Capital, who pioneered the Eurobond
market in the 1980s, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News.  
 Russian equities had lower valuations than in China, India
and Brazil on average in the past three years after disputes
between the government of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  and
companies from steelmaker OAO Mechel to OAO Yukos Oil Co.  
 The  Micex  tumbled 23 percent in July and August of 2008 as
Putin accused Moscow-based Mechel of price fixing and Russia
waged a five-day war with Georgia. Yukos of Moscow, once
Russia’s largest oil producer, was bankrupted during Putin’s
presidency in 2006 after the government claimed more than $30
billion in back taxes.  
 Europe’s debt crisis is increasing the risk of a downturn
in the global economy and lower prices for oil, Russia’s biggest
export, according to  Eric Kraus  of Otkritie Financial Co. Kraus
favors corporate bonds over equities because stocks are more
vulnerable to a decline in investor appetite for higher-yielding
assets.  
 Economy Outlook  
 “Global growth is going to be something between soft and
disastrous” Kraus, Otkritie’s Moscow-based strategist, said in
an interview on June 8. “You currently get well-paid for
holding Russian corporate bonds.”  
 Falling stock prices in Russia and eastern European
countries from Hungary to Romania have created buying
opportunities, according to Templeton Asset Management Ltd.’s
 Mark Mobius . Hungary’s  BUX  index has lost 16 percent from this
year’s peak, while Romania’s gauge is down 23 percent.  
 “Russia has not been impacted so much” by the European
debt crisis, Mobius, who oversees about $34 billion in emerging
markets as Templeton Asset Management’s Singapore-based
chairman, said in a Bloomberg Television interview last week.  
 Russia’s jobless rate declined to 8.2 percent in April, the
lowest level in four months, and annual real wage growth
accelerated to 6 percent, the most since October 2008, the
statistics service said last month. The economy expanded 2.9
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier after shrinking
3.8 percent in the fourth quarter, the service said June 11.  
 Rising Profits  
 Russian earnings will increase at almost twice the 22
percent projected rate in  Brazil  in the next 12 months, and
surpass the 6.5 percent gain in India and 30 percent growth in
China, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Russia has always appeared cheap relative to other
emerging markets but at the moment it’s very cheap,”  Gareth Morgan , a London-based money manager at F&C Asset Management,
which oversees more than $147 billion worldwide, said in an
interview. If the global economic expansion continues, “Russia
is attractive,” he said.  
 The Micex has the highest earnings yield among the largest
emerging nations, or so-called BRIC markets, and it’s almost
double the 6.1 percent yield on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
the benchmark measure for U.S. equity.  
 ‘Strengths of Russia’  
 Gazprom’s earnings  are poised to climb 6.4 percent this
year and shares of the Moscow-based company may rally 67 percent
in the next 12 months, according to the average of at least nine
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Severstal shares may
gain 68 percent as the company, based in Cherepovets, in
Russia’s Vologodsky region, returns to profit this year after a
loss and boosts earnings by 42 percent in 2011, based on the
average estimate of five forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Net income at Moscow-based  Sberbank  will increase about 12-
fold from 2009 to 2011 and the stock has the equivalent of a
“buy” rating from 23 analysts, compared with four “holds”
and one “sell,” data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “In the past we’ve beat the drum more on the debt side,
but there’s quite an attractive risk-reward now in buying
equities,” Troika Dialog’s  Kingsmill Bond , who was voted the
top Russian strategist in last year’s  Thomson Extel  survey, said
in an interview in London.  
 “When the global economy stabilizes, the strengths of
Russia will come to the fore and the market is quite cheap,”
Bond said, citing Russia’s higher earnings growth prospects,
lower debt levels and smaller government budget deficit.  
 Low Debt  
 Russia’s sovereign debt as a percentage of gross domestic
product is likely to reach 7.7 percent this year, near 2007
levels, while the ratio in the U.S. will surge to 93.6 percent
in 2010 from 61.9 percent in 2007, the Washington-based
International Monetary Fund forecast in November. Russia’s
budget deficit in 2010 will probably amount to 5.4 percent of
GDP, less than an earlier 6.8 percent estimate, the government
said in a June 10 report.  
 “We are very much at the low end of historical
valuations” in Russia and global developing-nation equities,
 Jonathan Garner , the chief Asia and emerging-market strategist
at Morgan Stanley in London, said in an interview. He advised
investors on May 26 to increase holdings of emerging-market
stocks including Russia, where he has an “overweight”
recommendation.  
 “We’ve had a very rapid correction in equities,” he said.
“As the earnings growth keeps coming through, it has opened up
a very interesting buying opportunity.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  in Moscow at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pipes run from the NIS Gazprom operated oil and gas refinery in Pancevo, Serbia. Photographer: Oliver Bunic/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
