-- Genting `Aggressively' Seeks U.S. Casino Stakes With $1.7 Billion of Cash
-- Beth Jinks
-- 2010-06-14T21:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/genting-aggressively-seeks-u-s-casino-stakes-with-1-7-billion-of-cash.html

          
          
             Genting Malaysia Bhd. , the casino
owner that parlayed a single hilltop site near Kuala Lumpur into
gambling resorts in Singapore, the Philippines and the U.K., is
now looking for investments in the U.S.  
 “Genting Malaysia is aggressively searching for
opportunities to invest in the U.S. casino gaming market,”
 Justin Leong , head of strategic investments and corporate
affairs at group parent  Genting Bhd. , said in an interview in
New York. “Our strategy is building a U.S. presence.”  
 Armed with $1.7 billion in cash and debt free, Genting
Malaysia is seeking  acquisitions , new markets and potentially a
strategic partnership in the U.S., Leong said. The Kuala Lumpur-
based company, which said this month it may bid to develop a
slots casino at Aqueduct Racetrack in New York City, first
invested in the U.S. sector last year, buying MGM Mirage bonds.  
 “It’s unlikely to be a single asset,” Leong said. “If we
were to acquire something, it’s more likely to be a portfolio of
assets or a substantial stake in a company.”  
 Genting Malaysia is also looking at developments and new
gambling jurisdictions opening in the U.S., Leong said.  
 The company bought  MGM Mirage ’s secured bonds in May 2009
when the Las Vegas Strip’s biggest casino owner raised cash to
avoid a potential bankruptcy. Genting Malaysia has invested in
every capital issue by Las Vegas-based MGM since, Leong said.  
 “Genting Malaysia’s first foray into the U.S. casino
market was investing in MGM, and that strategic relationship
continues,” said Leong, 32. The bid for Aqueduct “is another
step.”  
 Kerkorian’s Stake  
 The investments include $100 million of bonds secured by
MGM’s Bellagio and Mirage properties in Las Vegas, 9 percent
notes tied to MGM Grand and MGM Mirage’s recently issued
convertible senior notes.  
 Kirk Kerkorian , who founded MGM Mirage and is its biggest
shareholder, said in October that his Tracinda Corp. is
exploring “strategic alternatives” for its 37 percent stake.
The investor, 93, said in  regulatory filings  that MGM Mirage is
undervalued and he is open to proposals.  
 Leong wouldn’t elaborate on Genting’s interest or say
whether there have been talks with Kerkorian, whose stake in MGM
Mirage was valued at $1.9 billion on June 11. The  shares  rose 35
cents, or 3 percent, to $11.95 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading and have gained 31 percent this year.  
 Winnie Lerner , an outside spokeswoman for Tracinda, and
 Alan Feldman , a spokesman for MGM Mirage, declined to comment.  
 MGM Mirage and partner  Pansy Ho  hold one of the six casino
licenses in Macau, the southern Chinese city that is the world’s
largest gambling hub. Ho is the daughter of Macau casino
billionaire  Stanley Ho .  
 ‘Faster, Sooner’  
 Revenue from the Malaysian casino, a gambling monopoly held
for almost four decades, helped build the Genting Bhd. empire
that includes hotels, Star Cruises and Norwegian Cruise Lines,
power generators and palm oil plantations.  
 In February, a Genting affiliate opened Singapore’s first
casino, a $4.7 billion resort with a  Universal Studios theme
park , adding to the group’s Resorts World casinos in Malaysia’s
highlands and the Philippines capital of Manila.  
 Genting also is the biggest casino owner in the U.K.,
operating under the Circus, Maxims and Mint brands.  
 There is competition for deals in Las Vegas as the city
recovers from its worst economic slump on record. Hedge fund
billionaire  John Paulson  is acquiring a 9.9 percent stake in
Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. In May, his New York-based Paulson &
Co. said it owned 9.1 percent of  MGM Mirage  and 4.6 percent of
 Boyd Gaming Corp.   
 Genting Malaysia has held investment talks with large U.S.
casino companies since December 2008, Leong said, declining to
specify them.  
 “I wish I had worked faster and done something sooner,”
Leong said.  
 Leong, a nephew of  Genting  Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Lim Kok Thay  and grandson of founder  Lim Goh Tong ,
joined the family company in September 2004 after about four
years at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 Aqueduct Auction  
 Genting is one of six potential bidders vying to renovate
Aqueduct Racetrack and operate a slot machine-style “racino”
with 4,500 video-lottery terminals in Queens. The latest round
of proposals, which require a minimum $300 million up front, are
due June 29.  
 The family’s closely held Kien Huat Realty previously
invested in three U.S. casino ventures, and last month partnered
with the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe to finance a proposed casino
resort in Massachusetts.  
 In the early 1990s, Kien Huat financed the Foxwoods Resort &
Casino in Connecticut, whose tribal owners defaulted on about
$2.5 billion of debt last year, and the Seneca Niagara Casino in
New York.  
 In August, Kien Huat paid $55 million for 50 percent of
 Empire Resorts Inc. , owner of the Monticello Casino & Raceway in
Monticello, New York, helping Empire to restructure some debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Genting Resort Hotel is illuminated at night  
                       
                         
                           Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Genting Bhd.'s Genting Resort Hotel is illuminated at night, at the Genting Highlands in Kuala Lumpur. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Genting Bhd.'s Genting Resort Hotel is illuminated at night, at the Genting Highlands in Kuala Lumpur. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
