-- Genzyme Is Not for Sale After Icahn Battle, CEO Termeer Says in Interview
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-06-14T21:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/genzyme-is-not-for-sale-after-icahn-battle-ceo-termeer-says-in-interview.html

          
          
             Genzyme Corp. , the world’s largest
maker of drugs for rare genetic diseases, is not for sale, after
resolving a proxy contest with billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ,
Chief Executive Officer  Henri Termeer  said in an interview.  
 Genzyme, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is focused on
fixing manufacturing defects that cut into sales of its biggest
products, Termeer said in an interview today. The CEO is seeking
to revive the drugmaker after sales  slumped  2 percent to $4.5
billion last year, following the contamination of Genzyme’s
Allston Landing plant in Boston with a virus.  
 The company resolved a proxy fight with Icahn, its biggest
 shareholder , on June 9. In agreeing to seat two of Icahn’s board
nominees, Genzyme resolved conflicts posed by the Icahn
candidates’ work for competing biotechnology companies, Termeer
said, calling it a “good settlement.”  
 With the fight resolved, “we can get away from that
conflict and start to run the company again, moving forward with
the very, very exciting developments we have ahead of us,”
Termeer said today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  
 Genzyme paid $175 million as part of a settlement with the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration for manufacturing violations
at the plant. In addition, certain operations will be moved from
the Allston facility, and Genzyme will be supervised five years
after correcting the manufacturing defects.  
 Too Many Drugs  
 The deficiencies happened because the Allston facility was
strained by adding Myozyme, a Pompe disease treatment, to the
drugs already being made there, Termeer said. It “wasn’t
doable,” he said.  
 “If it’s anyone’s fault, it’s my fault,” said Termeer,
who has been CEO for almost 25 years. “I have enormous regrets.
This will never happen again.”  
 Termeer, 64, said he plans to continue leading the company
until the manufacturing defects are resolved, establish a market
for the Pompe disease drug Lumizyme that was approved in May,
and step down in 2011.  
 “I want to work through this, get Lumizyme into the
marketplace, and do the divestitures in a way that works for the
personnel,” he said. “So I’m thinking 2011 would be a logical
year when a transition could be organized.”  
 Genzyme is looking at candidates to lead, he said, and
declined to say who those candidates might be. Termeer said he
wants the next CEO to be an innovator.  
 Investor Dissatisfaction  
 Termeer is combating  investor  dissatisfaction. Genzyme
announced on May 6 a $2 billion share buyback and said it will
spin off, sell, or allow a management buyout of its genetic
testing, diagnostics and pharmaceutical ingredients businesses.  
 Icahn withdrew his slate of four nominees for Genzyme’s
board and said he would vote his shares in favor of the company
at its annual meeting on June 16.  
 Ralph Whitworth , a co-founder of Relational Investors LLC,
joined the board in April, and  Dennis Fenton , a former head of
operations at Amgen Inc., was appointed on June 7 as part of
Genzyme’s agreement with Relational Investors.  
 Activist investors are “an additional factor most
companies are facing,” Termeer said. Whitworth and Icahn “say
the stock is undervalued, and I totally agree with that.
Activists want to play a role and we need to recognize their
role and learn from it.”  
 Shares Rise  
 Genzyme rose 45 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $49.50 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading  at 4 p.m. New York time.
The company’s shares fell 16 percent in the past 12 months.  
 The drugmaker plans to appoint two new board committees in
risk management and capital allocation, Termeer said in the
interview.  
 Under the agreement with Icahn, Genzyme will appoint  Steven Burakoff , a professor of medicine at Mount Sinai Medical Center
in New York and one of Icahn’s initial nominees, and  Eric Ende ,
a former biotechnology analyst for Merrill Lynch & Co., to serve
as directors immediately following its annual meeting.  
 Icahn funds held 13.1 million Genzyme shares, a 4.9 percent
stake, as of March 31, according to Bloomberg data, making the
billionaire investor the company’s biggest shareholder.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        