-- German Investor Sentiment May Drop as Debt Crisis Threatens to Curb Growth
-- Gabi Thesing
-- 2010-06-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/german-investor-sentiment-may-drop-as-debt-crisis-threatens-to-curb-growth.html

          
          
             German investor confidence probably
fell for a second month in June on concern that the sovereign
debt crisis will undermine export prospects and crimp growth in
Europe’s largest economy.  
 The  ZEW Center for European Economic Research  will today
say its index of investor and analyst  expectations  fell to 42
from 45.8 in May, according to the median of 35 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News  survey . ZEW releases the report, which aims to
predict developments six months ahead, at 11 a.m. in Mannheim.  
 Greece’s near default has prompted governments from Berlin
to Madrid to implement budget cuts to convince investors they
can tame deficits, threatening to damp demand and hurt the
region’s economic recovery. While the euro’s 15 percent drop
against the dollar this year may boost exports outside the
currency region, the 16-nation bloc is Germany’s most important
market.  
 “The debt crisis will slowly impact on Germany,” said
 Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “The
ZEW is forward-looking, and toward the end of the year Europe’s
austerity measures will be hurting both exports and domestic
demand.”  
 For now, Germany’s economy is showing few signs of
discomfort, with the benchmark  DAX  share index gaining 2.9
percent last week. The  unemployment  rate unexpectedly fell to
7.7 percent last month as companies ramped up production and
added workers to meet booming orders.  
 Forecasts Raised  
 The Bundesbank on June 11 raised its growth forecasts,
predicting expansion of 1.9 percent this year and 1.4 percent in
2011, up from 1.6 percent and 1.2 percent respectively.  
 Continental AG , Europe’s second-biggest car-parts maker, on
June 10 raised its sales-growth estimate for this year to more
than 10 percent after business through May was stronger than the
company expected.  
 Still, the debt crisis is making banks wary of lending to
each other and driving up interbank lending costs, which may
reduce the flow of credit to companies and households.  
 Europe’s banks will have to write down 195 billion euros
($239 billion) of bad debt by 2011, on top of the 444 billion
euros of writedowns they have already logged, the European
Central Bank said on May 31.  
 Praktiker AG , Germany’s second-biggest home improvement
retailer, said last month it expects sales to drop further
at its stores in Greece as the government implements budget cuts
worth 14 percent of the country’s gross domestic product.  
 “We better get used to the idea of considerably slower
growth from the end of this year,” said  Andreas Moeller , an
economist at WGZ Bank in Duesseldorf. “Germany’s economy is
overly reliant on exports, and the crisis is pulling the rug
from under its feet.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        