-- Germany's Youngest World Cup Squad Since 1934 Routs Australia to Top Group
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-06-14T00:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/germany-s-youngest-world-cup-squad-since-1934-routs-oldies-from-australia.html

          
          
             Germany’s youngest World Cup squad
in 76 years began its 2010 campaign with a 4-0 rout of the
soccer tournament’s second-oldest team.  
 Lukas Podolski ,  Miroslav Klose , Thomas Mueller and  Cacau 
got the goals last night for the three-time world champion
against Australia in Durban, South Africa. It was the biggest
win in the tournament’s opening seven games and put Germany on
top of its group.  
 “We’re a young team, but we have a lot of high quality,”
Germany captain  Philipp Lahm , 26, said in an interview. “It’s
very important for us to get in the next round so it was
important to start with a victory.”  
 Germany coach  Joachim Loew , missing injured players
including captain  Michael Ballack  and first-choice goalkeeper
 Rene Adler , has assembled Germany’s youngest World Cup squad
since 1934, with an average age of 24.9. Only North Korea and
Ghana have younger rosters among the 32 competing teams.  
 Having such a young group may be to the team’s advantage,
according to former Germany striker  Oliver Bierhoff .  
 “They are very interesting young players,” Bierhoff said
in an interview. “They have a lot of experience from the
Bundesliga and also from the under-21 championships so I think
they are ready to play this big tournament.”  
 Australia, by contrast, arrived at the World Cup with a
squad whose average age is 28.4, tying England for the second
eldest. Brazil has the oldest collection of players in South
Africa with an average age of 28.6.  
 World Cup Experience  
 Eight of the 11 Socceroo starters last night featured in
Australia’s last World Cup game in 2006, a 1-0 second-round loss
to eventual champion Italy. Four years on, they struggled
against the pace of the Germans, who regularly tried to play
passes in behind a defense featuring 34-year-olds  Craig Moore 
and  Scott Chipperfield  and captain  Lucas Neill , 32.  
 “We didn’t really control the midfield,” Chipperfield
said in an interview. “It allowed them time on the ball to play
it in behind us. Defensively it makes it hard for you when
players have got time in the middle. They have good movement and
are a very good side.”  
 Mueller raced in behind the Australian rearguard to set up
the opening goal in the eighth minute. The midfielder played the
ball across the penalty area and Podolski hit a first-time shot
that goalkeeper  Mark Schwarzer  couldn’t keep out.  
 Schwarzer, 37, allowed Klose to beat him to a cross to head
the second goal and Germany twice sliced through the Australian
defense to score in the second half after Socceroos forward  Tim Cahill  received a straight red card for a tackle on  Bastian Schweinsteiger  in the 56th minute.  
 The victory gave Germany, seeking its first World Cup title
since 1990, the Group D lead on goal difference over Ghana,
which earlier beat Serbia 1-0.  
 “We’re a young team,” Klose said. “We love playing.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Durban through the Johannesburg newsroom 
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        