-- Ghana's World Cup Victory Sparks Celebrations by Africans From All Nations
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-06-14T02:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/ghana-s-world-cup-victory-sparks-celebrations-by-africans-from-all-nations.html

          
          
             Ghana’s players danced on the pitch,
and Africans of many nations rejoiced in the stands as the Black
Stars yesterday beat Serbia 1-0 to become the first team from
the continent to win a game in the region’s initial World Cup.  
 “This was for our family here and our family back home,”
Asamoah Gyan, who scored the match-winning penalty, told
reporters. “Not only Ghana, but the whole of Africa, is happy
for what we’ve done here today.”  
 The Rennes striker’s penalty kick came in the 84th minute
after Zdravko Kuzmanovic’s handball. Serbia had Aleksandar
Lukovic sent off for a second yellow card 10 minutes earlier.  
 Gyan and his teammates celebrated to the sound of drums and
vuvuzela horns in the Loftus Versfeld Stadium in Pretoria, as
the flags of South Africa, Nigeria and other nations from the
continent waved in the stands. South Africa is the first nation
in the region to hold the World Cup.  
 Pule Shayi, 38, a government official from Pretoria, wore a
South African flag on his head and painted the Ghanaian
tricolour on his face.  
 “Africa’s time has arrived,” he said. “The World Cup
doesn’t only belong to South Africa but to the entire
continent.”  
 The hosts couldn’t keep their lead in the June 11 opening
match with Mexico, which ended 1-1. Nigeria then lost to
Argentina 1-0, and Algeria lost by the same score to Slovenia.
Ghana’s Serbian coach Milovan Rajevac said the win was
meaningful for people outside the western African nation.  
 “I’m happy that the whole of Africa is happy because of
this victory,” he said.  
 African First  
 The quadrennial World Cup has been held in North and South
American, Europe and Asia before this year’s edition. South
Africa won the right to host the event in 2004, and has spent
billions of dollars on stadiums, roads, airports and
infrastructure projects to prepare for sport’s most watched
event.  
 Shayi said he’ll return to the stadium to support Bafana
Bafana, as the South African team is known, in their match
against Uruguay on June 16 and will also root for Algeria when
it plays the U.S. on June 23.  
 “All of Africa is united,” Ghana midfielder  Stephen Appiah  said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja at Loftus Versfeld Stadium via the London newsroom
on   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  Franz Wild  at
Loftus Versfeld via the Johannesburg bureau at
   fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        