-- Iceland Will Obtain EU Backing to Start Entry Talks, Draft Statement Says
-- James G. Neuger
-- 2010-06-14T14:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/iceland-will-obtain-eu-backing-to-start-entry-talks-draft-statement-says.html

          
          
             European Union governments are set
to start membership talks with Iceland, as the North Atlantic
island recovers from the financial crisis of 2008, a draft
statement said.  
 EU leaders will decide at a June 17 summit in Brussels
“that accession negotiations should be opened,” according to a
draft declaration obtained by Bloomberg News. “The pace will
depend on Iceland’s progress in meeting the requirements.”  
 Enthusiasm for the EU in Iceland has soured since it
applied to join in July 2009, seeking an economic anchor after
the collapse of major banks drove the country into its deepest
recession since independence in 1944 and left it dependent on as
much as $10 billion in international loans.  
 Some 58 percent of Icelandic voters favor scrapping the
entry bid, with 24 percent wanting to press ahead, according to
an  MMR  survey published by the  Andriki  research institute today.  
 Iceland would jump ahead of Turkey and ex-Yugoslav states
such as Serbia on the path to joining the world’s largest
trading bloc. It could catch up with Croatia, the next in line
to join, which aims to become a member in 2012.  
 Iceland is rebounding from the economic tumult. The  economy 
has grown for two straight quarters, ending a four-quarter
slide, and  unemployment  fell to 8.3 percent in May from a peak
of 9.3 percent in March 2009.  
 Iceland would need to clear up disputes with EU countries
before joining, including a battle over compensating British and
Dutch depositors for losses in “Icesave” accounts from the
2008 demise of  Landsbanki Islands hf .  
 Hinting at the Icesave dispute, the draft EU declaration
calls Iceland’s enforcement of European financial laws one of
the “areas of weakness” that it has to deal with in order to
join. The statement may be amended at the summit.  
 Entry negotiations would start in September or October,
with no deadline set for membership.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        