-- Michael Jackson Doctor Can Practice in California While Facing Charges
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-06-14T21:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/michael-jackson-doctor-can-practice-in-california-while-facing-charges.html

          
          
             Dr.  Conrad Murray , accused of
manslaughter in connection with the death last year of pop
singer  Michael Jackson , will be allowed to practice medicine in
California.  
 California Superior Court Judge Michael Pastor at a hearing
today in Los Angeles said he doesn’t have authority to change
the bail conditions set by the judge who took Murray’s not-
guilty plea in February and who allowed the physician to
practice medicine but not administer heavy sedatives such as
those that killed Jackson.  
 “I simply don’t have the ability to change the decision of
one of my colleagues,” Pastor said.  
 The California Medical Board, which had asked the judge to
prevent Murray from practicing medicine in the state as part of
his bail, can use other administrative procedures to suspend his
license, the judge said.  
 Jackson died on June 25 at age 50 in his Los Angeles home
during preparations for a series of comeback concerts in
London’s O2 arena. His death was ruled a homicide by the Los
Angeles County coroner, who said the singer died of acute
propofol intoxication. The drug is administered intravenously to
make a patient sleep before and during surgery.  
 Ripple Effect  
 The judge who took Murray’s plea in February set bail at
$75,000 and prohibited Murray from using propofol and similar
drugs to put patients under sedation.  
 Murray’s lawyers said in court filings that he has no
intention to practice in California and that a restriction in
the state could have prompted medical boards in Texas and
Nevada, where Murray sees patients, to suspend his license as
well.  
 “They want to stop him from helping people,” Joseph Low,
a lawyer for Murray said at today’s hearing.  
 Pastor set a new hearing Aug. 23 to discuss a schedule for
a preliminary hearing at which prosecutors will have to provide
evidence to try Murray for manslaughter. Deputy District
Attorney  David Walgren  said that the investigation was still in
process and that the hearing, which might last a week, could
start in September or October.  
 The case is People v. Murray, SA073164, Los Angeles County
Superior Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        