-- Microsoft Unveils Kinect Motion-Sensor to Boost Games Sales
-- Dina Bass
-- 2010-06-14T20:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/microsoft-unveils-xbox-kinect-motion-sensor-to-boost-video-games-sales.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp. , looking to boost
profit and sales in its Xbox video-game unit, plans to start
selling a motion-controlled device called Kinect on Nov. 4 that
lets console users direct action by moving their bodies.  
 The device, demonstrated with several game titles in a
University of Southern California  basketball arena  yesterday,
will also support video chat. The company also unveiled an
exclusive deal with  Walt Disney Co. ’s ESPN to put live sports
events on the Xbox Live online game service, Microsoft said at a
Los Angeles press conference today.  
 Microsoft, the No. 2 console seller behind  Nintendo Co. , is
looking to reinvigorate demand as the industry copes with an 11
percent sales decline this year in the U.S., according to data
from NPD Group Inc. Kinect may add $1.6 billion to revenue in
the fiscal year starting July 1 and $2 billion in the year after
that, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 “It is unlike anything you have ever experienced before,”
Microsoft Senior Vice President  Don Mattrick , who oversees the
Xbox group, said at the press conference. The system “brings
your living room to life.”  
 Kinect, previously known as Project Natal, also will let
Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft extend the life of its Xbox
360 console,  Sarah Friar , a Goldman Sachs analyst, said in a
note. Since new machines typically lose money for the first few
years, a longer shelf life should help Microsoft improve profit
in a division that has lost $8.6 billion since 1999, according
to estimates from  Katherine Egbert , an analyst with Jefferies &
Co. in San Francisco.  
 Playing Catch-Up  
 Microsoft’s first motion-sensing games come four years
after  Nintendo  started selling the Wii motion-activated system,
which helped the Kyoto-based company take the lead in console
sales.  Sony Corp. , maker of the PlayStation 3 console, will
demonstrate its Move motion-controller this week.  
 While Kinect is geared toward family play, Microsoft also
showed off titles for traditional gamers. Activision Blizzard
Inc. played clips of its battle franchise “Call of Duty” to be
released later this year, and Microsoft and the Epic Games Inc.
previewed their new “Gears of War” title.  
 Microsoft will make 3,500 live sporting events from ESPN
available to customers who buy its Xbox Live gold membership.
The programming will include college football and basketball,
Major League Baseball and soccer.  
 Microsoft said it now has 25 million members for Xbox Live.
The company has previously said that about half of Xbox Live
members pay for the service.  
 The company also will start shipping a new Xbox machine
today. The product has a sleeker design, built-in Wi-Fi and is
less noisy than the earlier model. The machine will cost
$299.99, the same as the old model.  
 Nintendo sold 277,200 Wii consoles in the U.S. in April,
compared with shipments of 185,400 Xbox 360s and 180,800
PlayStation 3s, according to  NPD.   
 Microsoft fell 17 cents to $25.50 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adam Satariano  in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Todd Mitchell, an analyst at Kaufman Bros., talks with Bloomberg's Cris Valerio about the outlook for Microsoft Corp.'s Kinect controller for its Xbox video-game unit.
     Microsoft plans to start selling a motion-controlled device called Kinect on Nov. 4 that lets console users direct action by moving their bodies. Bloomberg's Carol Massar and Matt Miller also speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Dennis Durkin, chief operating officer of Microsoft Inc.'s interactive entertainment business, talks with Bloomberg's Cris Valerio and Matt Miller about the company's new Xbox and plans to sell a motion-controlled device called Kinect on Nov. 4 that lets console users direct action by moving their bodies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
