-- Micromet's Cancer Missiles Lure Boehringer, Sanofi
-- Ellen Gibson
-- 2010-06-14T20:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/micromet-s-search-and-destroy-cancer-missiles-lure-boehringer-sanofi.html

          
          
             Micromet Inc. , a 17-year-old
biotechnology company with no medicines on the market, is
attracting attention from product-hungry drugmakers. The lure: a
technology for fighting cancer without using toxic chemicals.  
 What Micromet has developed is a way to activate  T-cells ,
the elite troops of the immune system, to attack malignancies,
including a rare leukemia that strikes children. It has signed
partnerships with five of Europe’s largest drug companies:  Bayer
AG ,  Sanofi-Aventis SA ,  AstraZeneca Plc ,  Merck KGaA  and
 Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH .  
 For years, companies like Micromet have struggled to
perfect so-called immunotherapies that mobilize the body’s
natural defenses against cancer. At the  European Hematology
Association ’s meeting in Barcelona on Saturday, Micromet
announced that its leukemia treatment led to remission in almost
four-fifths of patients in a trial.  
 “With Micromet’s technology, you can give any T-cell the
ability to recognize and kill the tumor,” said Michael Morse,
an associate professor of medicine and tumor immunology
specialist at  Duke University School of Medicine  in Durham,
North Carolina. Although the technology is not fully tested,
“there’s every reason to believe that this could work.”  
 The company’s most-advanced drug, blinatumomab, is derived
from a common immune-system protein called an antibody that its
scientists refashioned to carry out an unnatural task. One end
of the protein attracts T cells; the other is engineered to
latch onto specific types of cancer cells.  
 Replenishing Armies  
 When batches of these proteins, called BiTEs, for
bispecific T-cell engager, are released into the bloodstream,
they not only summon the immune cells to attack the cancer, they
also stimulate the body to produce more of the cells, thus
replenishing its armies.  
 “We’re leveraging the most potent arm of the patient’s
immune system and directing it onto the tumor,” said Micromet
chief executive officer  Christian Itin  in an interview.  
 Micromet shares rose 16 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $6.71 in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading  at 4 p.m. The drugmaker
has gained 53 percent in the 12 months through today.  
 Immunotherapies got a boost on April 29 when the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration approved  Dendreon Corp. ’s first-of-its-
kind cancer vaccine for prostate tumors. The day of its
approval, Dendreon’s  stock  soared as much as 38 percent, and the
 Nasdaq Biotech Index  had its biggest one-day rise in six months.  
 It was a “landmark approval” that gave “positive
momentum to the whole biotech space,” said  Joseph Pantginis , an
analyst at Roth Capital Partners LLC in Newport Beach, CA.  
 Changing Mindset  
 Like Micromet’s drug, Provenge primes the patient’s natural
immune system. To make the vaccine, doctors extract white blood
cells from a prostate-cancer patient, mix them with vaccine
components and inject the combination back into the bloodstream.
Provenge “opens a door and changes people’s mindset” about the
immunotherapy approach, said  Jeffrey Crawford , chief of medical
oncology at Duke.  
 The disease blinatumomab is designed to treat,  acute
lymphocytic leukemia  or ALL, isn’t common, but it is a high
priority for some doctors. One reason is that two-thirds of the
5,400 new cases in the U.S. each year are children, many of whom
only survive with painful chemotherapy that continues for years.  
 In adults the disease is harder to treat than in children;
only 30 percent to 40 percent are cured with conventional
chemotherapy.  
 Complete Remission  
 At the Barcelona hematology meeting, Micromet showed that
blinatumomab can induce complete remission in patients who still
had  residual  leukemia cells after multiple rounds of
chemotherapy. About 80 percent of patients who stayed in the
study were relapse-free at a median follow-up of 11 months.  
 “With older patients, it’s very difficult to rout out the
last bit of leukemia,” said  Peter Marks , director of leukemia
services at Yale-New Haven Hospital. Immunologic methods such as
Micromet’s “can be very powerful,” he said. “A treatment that
could specifically kill leukemia without causing toxicity would
certainly be in demand,” he said.  
 Micromet will begin the last phase of testing required for
European approval of blinatumomab this June.  Edward Tenthoff , an
analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York, said it could be
cleared for use in the U.S. by 2012, and within five years could
see $1 billion in annual sales.  
 “There have been no improvements in ALL treatment in three
decades,” said  Mark Reisenauer , Micromet’s chief commercial
officer. “The only comparably underserved disease is
melanoma.”  
 Riddled With Cancer  
 Libby Johns is the kind of patient who inspires cancer
researchers to try harder. She was diagnosed with ALL in June
2009, a month after her second birthday. When her parents
noticed bruising all over her legs, they brought her to the
hospital, where doctors found that 90 percent of her bone marrow
was riddled with cancer cells.  
 Now three years old, Libby has had blood transfusions and
continuous chemotherapy at the  Hospital for Sick Children  in
Toronto, said her mother, Megan. The girl takes pills every day,
has intravenous treatments once a month, and shots in the spine
once every three months. This cycle, known as the
“ maintenance ” phase of treatment, lasts 20 months. Libby must
continue the regimen until August of next year.  
 In the course of treatment, Libby’s hair has fallen out
three times, and Megan says it’s a struggle to keep the girl’s
weight up. Fevers and low blood sugar have put her in and out of
the hospital, and when she’s home, the drugs can leave her
lethargic.  
 Few Options  
 “Some days she doesn’t have the energy to do much,” her
mother said. “We just stay home, watch movies, have picnics in
the house. I try to let her lead as normal a life as possible.”  
 While Libby is responding well to treatment, few options
are available to children who are not cured with chemotherapy.
For adults, who have a high relapse rate, an ineffective
procedure called  stem cell transplant  is the only other line of
defense, according to Yale’s Marks. Proven drugs are “very much
needed,” he said.  
 Each of Micromet’s partnerships with large drugmakers is
aimed at a different, hard-to-treat cancer. The collaboration
with Boehringer, announced May 5, will take aim at  multiple
myeloma , a deadly disease that starts in the bone marrow and
often fails to respond to chemotherapy.  
 Micromet’s Platform  
 Pantginis said drugmakers’ interest in the startup goes
beyond a desire to license the small company’s drugs. They’re
eyeing Micromet’s platform as a way to boost the effectiveness
of cancer drugs they already sell, and also to extend the patent
protection on those products, he said. If the companies can
retool their older drugs using BiTE technology, they can stave
off competition from generics in the future.  
 The concept of immunotherapy took a long time to bear
fruit. In the early 1970s scientists started developing lab-
grown proteins called  monoclonal antibodies , designed either to
block tumor growth or make tumors visible to other immune-system
cells. They do this by homing in on specific molecules or
“targets” on the surface of cancer cells.  
 The first commercial success came in 1997, when  Genentech
Inc.  and Biogen Idec Inc. launched Rituxan, a drug for non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma. This was followed by best-selling drugs led
by  Roche Holding AG ’s colon cancer drug Avastin, with almost $6
billion in global sales last year.  
 Second Generation  
 While these drugs are a big business for companies, most
have shortcomings as medicines, said  Steven Rosenberg , chief of
surgery at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Maryland.
“We need to do better than prolonging survival by months,”
Rosenberg said. Most of these drugs target just one of multiple
drivers of tumor growth. In just a matter of months, tumors in
many patients grow resistant to the drugs.  
 Scientists at Micromet and other biotech companies said
that second-generation antibodies of the sort they are testing
will be more effective. Companies like Bothell, Washington-based
 Seattle Genetics Inc.  and Waltham, Massachusetts-based  Immunogen
Inc.  employ what’s known as the “payload” technique.  
 The idea is to link a targeted antibody to a toxic drug
that is unleashed once the medicine enters the tumor. One of
these experimental drugs,  T-DM1  for breast cancer, joins Roche’s
best-selling Herceptin to a cancer-killing toxin using
Immunogen’s technology and could be approved next year.  
 “The industry understands the limitations of traditional
antibodies,” said Micromet CEO Itin. “We’re starting to see
very interesting clinical candidates to enhance the activity of
antibodies. We’re seeing an evolution.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ellen Gibson  in New York at 
 egibson9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "The industry understands the limitations of traditional antibodies," said Micromet CEO Christian Itin. Source: Micromet via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
