-- Milton Friedman Holds Secret to Plugging Well: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-06-14T01:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/milton-friedman-holds-secret-to-plugging-well-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             It doesn’t seem to matter in America
which party wins a given election. Either way, America loses.  
 The oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico reveals why.  
 President  Barack Obama  wants an “ass to kick.”
Republicans want to kick Obama. The truth is that both parties
are more interested in pointing fingers than refining their own
beliefs and biases in response to the disaster. The
environmental calamity exposes fundamental, fatal flaws in the
philosophies of both parties.  
 Therein lies the one prospect for good news from the
gushing catastrophe: If the U.S. is to escape from the downward
spiral it finds itself in, at least one of the parties must
internalize the lessons of the spill.  
 The traditional Democratic view sees free enterprise as the
source of many evils, and government’s proper role as to stand
between fragile citizens and the market. This vision has evolved
from comic-book fantasy. Obama’s team is the  Justice League of
America , floating above Earth, scrambling a Superman with an
“O” on his chest whenever evil threatens the poor citizens of
“Smallville.”  
 While Superman might be nice to have around occasionally,
the problem is how Democrats have expanded his enemies list.
Profits are evil, so government must punitively raise taxes on
insurers, oil companies, drug companies and any others that
become too successful. Private contracts tend to be unjust,
because predatory businessmen will trick citizens into making
agreements that are not in their interest, so government must
step in and dictate the terms.  
 Imperfect Heroes  
 If Democrats live in the DC Comics universe, where the
heroes are perfect and the villains easy to identify,
Republicans live in the  Marvel  universe, where the heroes, such
as Wolverine and Spider-Man, are reluctant, best left alone, and
potentially villains themselves. There are no omniscient,
benevolent rulers here. Sooner or later power will be wielded by
the likes of  Nancy Pelosi , so the role of government should be
constrained as much as possible.  
 Both parties have taken their view to an extreme.  
 Civil society requires that government provide an umbrella
under which free enterprise can flourish.  Milton Friedman , in a
legendary  treatise , listed four roles for government: enforcing
the rules of the game, watching out for natural monopolies,
controlling “neighborhood” effects such as pollution, and
protecting those who can’t do so themselves.  
 Democrats, of course, see a much broader role for
government. Their government has become what  Bastiat  warned
about: “the great fiction, through which everybody endeavors to
live at the expense of everybody else.”  
 Zero for Four  
 The government that tries to do everything accomplishes
nothing. It fails to deliver the four essentials that even
Friedman viewed as prerequisites for a successful society.  
 The Obama administration was so distracted by green jobs
and sparring with business that it failed to establish a
rational government response plan for deepwater oil spills, even
after the Timor Sea blowout of 2009. That discharge, the third
worst in Australia’s history, spewed an estimated 30,000 barrels
of oil during 10 weeks -- a pittance only when compared with the
BP Plc spill in the Gulf. As a wakeup call, the Timor Sea spill
should have been the marine equivalent of 9/11.  
 The Republican Party’s opposition to all things government
is just as ill-considered.  
 If drilling in treacherous conditions is to be allowed, for
instance, then a competent, well-funded government is needed to
plan and practice a rapid response to an accident. This comes
directly from Friedman’s analysis: a private individual will not
factor in the costs to society of a terrible spill and therefore
won’t invest adequately in machines to clean it up.  
 Hungry Voters  
 Citizens at times hunger for the order that government
should provide, so they grant power to Democrats -- who
inevitably take it too far. Republicans neglect the fact that
some government activism is required to accomplish Friedman’s
goal of “improving the operation of the invisible hand without
substituting the dead hand of bureaucracy.”  
 Policy in the U.S. has become the unpredictable outcome of
a game between a party that irrationally believes government can
and should do almost everything, and a party that irrationally
believes government can and should do almost nothing.  
 Sooner or later, one of the parties -- or, perhaps, another
one -- will recognize the necessary, limited number of functions
for government that are a prerequisite for a society within
which free citizens can generate happiness and prosperity,
without financial crises and oil spills.  
 It will matter when such a party emerges, and wins.  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        