-- Lincoln to Repay $950 Million U.S. Bailout, Sell Notes
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-06-14T13:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/lincoln-national-will-sell-stock-notes-to-repay-950-million-u-s-bailout.html

          
          
             Lincoln National Corp. , the insurer
that bought a lender to qualify for a U.S. bailout, said it will
sell notes and stock to repay its $950 million rescue.  
 Lincoln will offer as much as $750 million in notes and
$335 million of stock, the Philadelphia-based insurer said today
in a statement. The Treasury Department will continue to hold
warrants to buy about 13 million shares of the company.  
 Lincoln joined U.S. banks and rival insurers  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc.  and  American International Group
Inc.  in taking federal aid after the financial crisis lowered
the value of investments. Lincoln Chief Executive Officer  Dennis Glass  is focusing on U.S. insurance operations after striking
deals to sell a U.K. business and an asset manager.  
 “We ended the year in a strong capital position, and our
first-quarter results reflected the strength of our business
model,” Glass said in the statement. “We appreciate the
critical role the government and the American taxpayers have
played in stabilizing the financial markets.”  
 Lincoln  advanced $1.04, or 4 percent, to $27.40 at 9:31
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer
has gained about 54 percent in the past 12 months as investment
holdings rebounded from their lows in early 2009.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  will lead the offerings. Credit Suisse
Group AG, Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo & Co. will help on the
equity sale, while Bank of America Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and
US Bancorp will assist on the debt offering.  
 MetLife, Prudential  
 Life insurers were cut off from traditional sources of
funding after stock and bond markets fell in late 2008, and at
least 12 carriers applied to Treasury for bailouts. As markets
began to improve in April 2009,  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S.
life insurer, announced that it wouldn’t take U.S. funds. No. 2
 Prudential Financial Inc.  and Principal Financial Group Inc.
turned down bailouts in June of last year.  
 Lincoln took the bailout last year after agreeing in late
2008 to buy a Goodland, Indiana savings and loan with $7.3
million in assets to qualify for aid under the Troubled Asset
Relief Program. The insurer reported  three straight  quarterly
losses in the nine months ended June 30 as bond holdings slipped
and the cost of guaranteeing minimum returns on retirement
products called variable annuities increased.  
 Lincoln sold $600 million in stock to private investors a
year ago for $15 each. That offering was part of an effort to
raise capital that included the U.S. bailout and the sale of
$500 million in debt. Last year, Lincoln also reduced the
 workforce  by 15 percent to 8,208 employees.  
 Hartford repaid its $3.4 billion bailout in March after
selling stock and debt. New York-based AIG is selling assets as
it seeks to repay a rescue valued at $182.3 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        