-- Lincoln National Raises $335 Million to Repay U.S.
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-06-15T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/lincoln-national-raises-335-million-in-stock-sale-to-repay-u-s-bailout.html

          
          
             Lincoln National Corp. , the insurer
that received a $950 million rescue from the U.S. government,
raised about $335 million in a sale of stock to help repay the
bailout.  
 Lincoln said it sold 12.29 million shares of common stock
at $27.25 apiece. The Treasury Department still holds warrants
to buy about 13 million shares in Philadelphia-based Lincoln.  
 The insurer took the bailout last year after agreeing in
late 2008 to buy a Goodland, Indiana-based savings and loan with
$7.3 million in assets to qualify for aid under the Troubled
Asset Relief Program. Chief Executive Officer  Dennis Glass  is
focusing on U.S. insurance operations after striking deals to
sell a U.K. business and an asset manager.  
 “We appreciate the critical role the government and the
American taxpayers have played in stabilizing the financial
markets,” Glass said yesterday.  
 Lincoln rose  $1.05, or 4 percent, to $27.41 yesterday in
regular New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer
has gained about 54 percent in the past 12 months as investment
holdings rebounded from lows in early 2009.  
 Lincoln had announced that it would offer as much as $750
million in notes as well as the stock.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  led
the stock offering. Credit Suisse Group AG, Morgan Stanley and
Wells Fargo & Co. helped manage the sale.  
 Lincoln joined U.S. banks and rival insurers  Hartford
Financial Services Group Inc.  and  American International Group
Inc.  in taking federal aid after the financial crisis lowered
the value of investments.  
 Quarterly Losses  
 Lincoln had  three straight  quarterly losses in the nine
months ended June 30 as bond holdings slipped and the cost of
guaranteeing minimum returns on retirement products called
variable annuities increased.  
 Life insurers were cut off from traditional sources of
funding after stock and bond markets fell in late 2008, and at
least 12 carriers applied to Treasury for bailouts. As markets
began to improve in April 2009,  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S.
life insurer, announced that it wouldn’t take U.S. funds. No. 2
 Prudential Financial Inc.  and Principal Financial Group Inc.
turned down bailouts in June of last year.  
 Hartford repaid its $3.4 billion bailout in March after
selling stock and debt. New York-based AIG is selling assets as
it seeks to repay a rescue valued at $182.3 billion.  
 By paying back the government, Lincoln would leave AIG as
the only carrier still holding U.S. bailout funds. AIG owes
about $26.6 billion on a  Fed credit line  and $49 billion to the
Treasury.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        