-- Rupee Advances for Third Day as Prospect of Rate Increases May Draw Funds
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-06-14T04:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/india-rupee-gains-for-3rd-day-as-prospect-of-rate-increases-to-draw-funds.html

          
          
             India’s rupee rose the most in more
than a week on speculation the central bank will raise borrowing
costs for a third time this year to curb  inflation , making local
assets more attractive to investors seeking higher yields.  
 The currency strengthened for a third day as a government
report today will show inflation held near a 16-month high in
May, according to a Bloomberg News  survey . The rupee also
appreciated as the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index , a
benchmark for the nation’s shares, advanced for a fourth day,
adding to optimism capital inflows will increase.  
 “Rather strong inflation will likely fuel expectations
that the Reserve Bank of India should not wait too long before
tightening further,”  Sebastien Barbe , Hong Kong-based head of
emerging-market research at Credit Agricole Corporate and
Investment Bank, wrote in a research note today. “The rupee may
benefit as a consequence of higher expected carry.”  
 The rupee climbed 0.6 percent, the most since June 3, to
46.5737 per dollar as of 9:58 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That pared its losses for this quarter to
3.5 percent, still the second-worst performance among Asian
currencies, after South Korea’s won.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the rupee will trade at 46.99
to the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of
47.29 at the end of last week. Forwards are agreements to buy or
sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts
are settled in dollars.  
 Inflation, Rates  
 Wholesale prices gained 9.6 percent, following a 9.59
percent increase in April, according to the median estimate of
24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Inflation was 10.06 percent
in February, the highest since October 2008.  
 The  Reserve Bank  raised its benchmark rate by a quarter
percentage point each in March and April. The benchmark  reverse
repurchase rate , at which the monetary authority borrows from
banks, is currently 3.75 percent. The central bank is scheduled
to review monetary policy on July 27.  
 Overseas  investment  in India’s bonds touched a record $14.4
billion on June 8, the  Securities and Exchange Board of India 
said last week.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on Indian currency research: TNI INB ANAFX BN <GO>
Most read Indian currency and bonds stories: MNI INB BN <GO>
For Indian rupee forecasts: FXFC INR <GO>  
          
          


  


        