-- India May Put Off Debt Auctions on Bank Cash Shortages, JPMorgan, STCI Say
-- V. Ramakrishnan
-- 2010-06-14T05:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/india-may-put-off-debt-auctions-on-bank-cash-shortages-jpmorgan-stci-say.html

          
          
             India may postpone or cut the size
of its scheduled bond sales this week as the payment of
corporate taxes and mobile-phone license fees squeezes  cash at
banks,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Securities Trading Corp. said.  
 Overnight interbank rates  climbed to 5.43 percent on June
11, their highest level in more than two months, increasing the
cost of funding to buy bonds. The average amount of cash
borrowed each day by banks from the central bank’s repurchase
auction window jumped six-fold last week, showing the shortage
of funds. The  Finance Ministry  is due to auction up to 110
billion rupees ($2.4 billion) in the week beginning today,
according to the government’s debt sale calendar.  
 “This tight liquidity situation is going to be there for
quite some time, probably until at least August,”  Jahangir Aziz , chief India economist at JPMorgan in Mumbai said in a June
12 telephone interview. “They may postpone the week’s auction
because that’s when the big shock is going to be.”  
 Finance Secretary  Ashok Chawla  wasn’t immediately available
when called at his office.  
 The yield on the benchmark  7.80 percent bonds due in May 
2020 rose as much as three basis points today to 7.64 percent,
the highest level in more than a month.  
 Wireless broadband operators will have to pay a combined
385.4 billion rupees for licenses by June 22. The payment for
110 billion rupees of bonds sold by the government last week is
due today. Companies may pay up to 350 billion rupees in
quarterly  tax  this week, said  Pradeep Madhav , managing director
of Mumbai-based Securities Trading Corp. of India, known as
STCI.  
 Room for Delays  
 The companies that won permits to provide third-generation
services last month paid 677.2 billion rupees to the government,
reducing cash at banks.  
 “Since the government has mobilized so much money, they
can truncate the borrowing for a couple of auctions,” said
Mumbai-based Madhav.  
 Madhav predicts lenders may borrow up to 900 billion rupees
from the  Reserve Bank of India  during this week. Banks borrowed
an average of 599.3 billion rupees from the central bank through
its repurchase-auction window every day last week, compared with
94.1 billion rupees the previous week.  
 The government plans to complete 63 percent of its record
borrowing program of 4.57 trillion rupees for the fiscal year
that began April 1 in the first half.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        