-- India Debt Rating Outlook Raised to `Stable' By Fitch on Wireless Auction
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-06-14T10:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/india-debt-rating-outlook-raised-to-stable-by-fitch-on-wireless-auction.html

          
          
             India’s credit rating outlook on
local currency debt was raised to “stable” from “negative”
by Fitch Ratings on optimism higher-than-estimated revenue from
auction of wireless airwaves will help cut debt.  
 “India’s strong  growth  prospects and the one-off positive
impact from the telecoms auctions underpin Fitch’s forecast that
the government’s debt-to-gross domestic product ratio will
decline,” Fitch said in an e-mailed statement, while affirming
the nation’s long-term local and foreign-currency rating at BBB-
, the lowest investment grade.  
 Vodafone Group Plc and  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  bought Indian
high-speed wireless permits that raised 677.2 billion rupees
($14.6 billion), double the amount budgeted by the government.
Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in an interview on May 13
that the auction may pay for its biggest budget-deficit
reduction in 19 years.  
 Mukherjee said faster economic growth will also boost tax
collections, helping cut the budget deficit to 5.5 percent of
the gross domestic product in the fiscal year through March,
from an estimated 6.9 percent last year.  
 India’s economy, Asia’s biggest after Japan and China, grew
8.6 percent in the three months ended March 31.  
 The upgrade by Fitch comes after Standard & Poor’s in March
raised India’s debt rating outlook to “stable” from
“negative” on growth prospects. S&P maintained the nation’s
long-term local and foreign-currency rating at BBB-, its lowest
investment grade.  
 Moody’s Investors Service places India’s long-term local
currency debt at Ba2, two levels below investment grade and at
par with Armenia and Turkey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        