-- Government Bonds Decline as India's Inflation Quickens More Than Expected
-- V. Ramakrishnan
-- 2010-06-14T13:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/india-10-year-bond-yield-climbs-to-one-month-high-before-inflation-data.html

          
          
             India’s  10-year bonds  fell for a
fourth day as inflation unexpectedly accelerated in May, fueling
concern the central bank will raise borrowing costs.  
 Yields climbed to their highest level in six weeks after
 factory output  approached the fastest pace in 16 years in April.
Debt prices also dropped on speculation payment of corporate
taxes and mobile-phone license fees will squeeze  cash at banks 
and deter buyers as overnight interbank rates were near a two-
month high.  
 “With growth coming back strongly, investors are worried
that the Reserve Bank may consider resuming an aggressive
monetary policy stance,” said  R.V.S. Sridhar , head of markets
at Axis Bank in Mumbai. “The liquidity crunch is also leading
to possibly reduced purchases because funding is critical.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 7.80 percent note due May 2020
rose eight basis points to 7.69 percent, the highest level since
May 3, as of the 5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the
 central bank’s  trading system. The price fell 0.53, or 53 paise
per 100-rupee face amount, to 100.76.  
 The benchmark wholesale-price index advanced 10.16 percent
from a year earlier after a 9.59 percent gain in the previous
month, the commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi
today. That was faster than the 9.6 percent median forecast of
24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 The wholesale price inflation may be 5 percent by end of
March,  Kaushik Basu , chief economic adviser in the finance
ministry said.  
 Industrial production  grew 17.6 percent in April, just
short of the 17.7 percent expansion achieved in December that
was the biggest increase since at least 1994.  
 50 Percent Possibility  
 The Reserve Bank of India has raised interest rates twice
since mid-March by a quarter-percentage point each time. The
 reverse-repurchase auction  rate, or the rate at which the
central bank absorbs surplus cash, is 3.75 percent, while the
repurchase auction rate is 5.25 percent.  
 There’s a 50 percent possibility that the central bank will
raise its benchmark interest rates, Reserve Bank of India Deputy
Governor  K.C. Chakrabarty  said in Patna today.  
 Overnight interbank rates climbed to 5.43 percent on June
11, their highest level in more than two months, increasing the
cost of funding to buy bonds. The average amount of cash
borrowed each day by banks from the central bank’s repurchase
auction window jumped sixfold last week, showing the shortage of
funds.  
 Wireless broadband operators will have to pay a combined
385.4 billion rupees ($8.3 billion) for licenses by June 22.
Companies may pay up to 350 billion rupees in quarterly tax this
week, said  Pradeep Madhav , managing director of Mumbai-based
Securities Trading Corp. of India, known as STCI.  
 The companies that won permits to provide third-generation
services last month paid 677.2 billion rupees to the government,
reducing cash at banks.  
 Cash Crunch  
 The cash crunch forced the central bank on May 27 to ease
rules until July 2 to boost liquidity. The central bank said
lenders can raise more cash by cutting their debt holdings by as
much as 0.5 percentage point below the minimum regulatory
requirement of 25 percent of deposits.  
 The Reserve Bank is also holding additional daily money-
market auctions to increase the availability of funds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        