-- Threat of Microfinance Defaults Rise in India as SKS Plans IPO
-- Ruth David
-- 2010-06-14T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/india-microfinance-evokes-risk-of-subprime-in-the-east-as-sks-prepares-ipo.html

          
          
             Savita Ramesh Rathore stood at the
door to her dimly lit workshop in Mumbai’s Dharavi slum, filled
floor-to-ceiling with bundles of old clothes, and tallied up the
cost of her son’s wedding last year.  
 “Jewels, clothes, food, the town hall,” said Rathore, 50,
who makes towels from discarded clothes. She borrowed 30,000
rupees ($645) from moneylenders charging 60 percent interest and
took additional loans from friends to pay for the wedding. Three
months ago, she got a 10,000 rupee loan from urban lender
Hindusthan Microfinance Pvt. to repay some of that debt.  
 Rathore is one of 25 million Indians who have taken so-
called microfinance loans, often without adequate documentation
or collateral, according to Micro-Credit Ratings International
Ltd. As Hyderabad-based  SKS Microfinance Pvt.  plans to become
the first such lender to go public in the country, an industry
credited with helping alleviate poverty may come under pressure
to tighten loan standards to avoid a pile-up of bad debts.  
 “Globally, microfinance is showing characteristics of the
western financial markets before the collapse,” said  Sanjay Sinha , managing director at Micro-Credit Ratings in New Delhi.
“In the U.S., homeowners were given loans at 120 percent of the
value of their properties. In rural India, people are being lent
to at 150 percent of the value of their enterprises.”  
 The implosion of the U.S. market for subprime mortgages to
people with poor credit histories helped trigger a financial
panic and almost $1.8 trillion in losses and writedowns at
financial institutions worldwide.  
 Nicaragua Crisis  
 Microfinance, which focuses on loans in poor areas largely
shut out from traditional banking services, gained prominence
globally when  Muhammad Yunus  won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2006
for his role in founding Bangladesh’s Grameen Bank. Yet the past
two years have been marked by surging defaults in some countries.  
 Microfinance markets in Nicaragua, Morocco and Pakistan
have seen default levels climb to more than 10 percent, the
threshold that marks a “serious repayment crisis,” according
to a February report from Washington, D.C.-based policy and
research firm  Consultative Group to Assist the Poor .
Delinquencies in Bosnia and Herzegovina stayed below that level
only because of “aggressive loan write-offs,” the report said.  
 While there has been no evidence of a “widespread
repayment crisis” in India, “a number of industry analysts
have highlighted industry vulnerabilities,”  the report said .  
 Indian microfinance firms have reported bad-loan ratios of
about 2.5 percent on average, Micro-Credit’s Sinha estimated.
Actual levels may be higher, in part because some lenders roll
over loans to struggling borrowers to avoid defaults, he said.  
 World’s Largest Market  
 Most microfinance loans in India range from 5,000 rupees to
20,000 rupees, according to an  October 2009 report  by Crisil
Ratings, the local unit of Standard and Poor’s. The country,
where more than 600 million people live on less than $1.50 a day,
is the world’s largest microfinance market, according to a March
report by  CGAP and JPMorgan Chase & Co.   
 Interest rates range from 18 percent to 33 percent,
according to Vijay Mahajan, chairman of Hyderabad-based  Basix
Group  and president of the Microfinance Institutions Network, an
industry lobbying organization. Indian banks typically don’t
lend directly to microfinance customers.  
 Microfinance lending in India may surge by about 40 percent
annually over the next few years, said Sinha, whose company
provides ratings services to potential investors.  
 Sequoia Backing  
 SKS, betting the potential for growth will attract
investors, sought approval from India’s capital markets
regulator in March for an IPO and picked Kotak Mahindra Capital
Co., Citigroup Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG to manage the
offering. The company hasn’t said when it will sell stock.  
 Sequoia Capital, one of  Google Inc. ’s and Yahoo! Inc.’s
early investors, began buying shares in SKS in March 2007. It
plans to sell less than a third of its holding in the IPO,
according to the filing SKS made in March.  
 “The market is only 15 percent to 20 percent penetrated
today,”  Sumir Chadha , managing director of Sequoia Capital
India, said in a May 6 interview. “So even though microfinance
has been growing at stupendously high growth rates for the last
four to five years since we first invested in the sector, we
expect it to continue to grow at very high rates for the
foreseeable future.”  
 SKS, which mainly provides loans to poor women in rural
areas, said its number of borrowers climbed almost 20-fold to
3.95 million in the three years ended March 31, 2009. Loans
outstanding increased more than 18 times in the period, to 14.2
billion rupees, and profit jumped almost 49 times to about 802
million rupees,  SKS  said in the March filing.  
 Commitment  
 Vikram Akula , SKS’s founder and chairman, sold all his
shares to Tree Line Asia Master Fund (Singapore) Pte for $12.9
million on Feb. 10, according to the filing. Akula, a U.S.
citizen, was paid 7 million rupees in salary for the fiscal year
through March 2009 and holds 2.68 million stock options that he
agreed not to sell within three years from the listing.  
 “While there is nothing legally wrong in the encashment
process, it does raise a larger question” about executives’
commitment, M.S. Sriram, a former professor at the Indian
Institute of Management-Ahmedabad, wrote in a working paper
published in April.  
 Akula and senior SKS executives who have sold their
holdings declined requests for interviews, spokesman Atul Takle
said, citing a “quiet period” before the IPO.  
 Runaway growth at microfinance companies masks an erosion
of lending standards and a lack of regulation that may help
spark rising defaults, said Micro-Credit’s Sinha.  India  doesn’t
have a nationwide system for tracking borrowers’ credit
histories, making it hard for lenders to check whether clients
have multiple loans.  
 IPO ‘Inevitable’  
 Increased regulation may force lenders to boost provisions,
hurting profits, said  Sandip Sabharwal , head of portfolio
management services at Mumbai-based Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt.  
 If “there is more transparency, whether profitability will
be the same remains to be seen,” he said. “From an investor
standpoint, the risk is that the huge profitability we see today
may not remain going forward.”  
 More microlenders will likely tap equity markets, said
 Basix Group ’s Mahajan. Until now, they have relied on loans and
grants from banks, insurers and foundations for funding, he said.  
 “An IPO is inevitable for any microfinance company that
has crossed a certain size,” Mahajan said. “The money needed
to maintain capital adequacy standards and finance future growth
at that point is too much to expect from just the  banks  or
private equity investors.”  
 IPO Candidates  
 Basix, which focuses on poor households in rural areas and
provides loans averaging about 3,000 rupees, may sell shares in
an IPO next year, he said.  
 Spandana Sphoorty Financial Ltd. , Share Microfin Ltd.,
Bandhan Financial Services Pvt. and Asmitha Microfin Ltd. are
among rivals likely to consider selling stock this year because
of their size, Mahajan said.  
 While raising money from private equity investors is an
option, “we are also keen to tap the stock markets by listing
shares,” Padmaja Reddy, managing director of Spandana, said in
an e-mail. Vidya Sravanthi, managing director of Asmitha
Microfin, said in an e-mail that the company may seek a listing,
“but not this year.”  
 Udaia Kumar, managing director of  Share Microfin , and
Bandhan Managing Director Chandra Shekhar Ghosh didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  
 ‘Irrational Exuberance’  
 “There is significant investor interest in microfinance
companies’ public issues, but it’s being driven by irrational
exuberance,” said Sinha. “Investors aren’t fully factoring in
the risks involved in unsecured lending to an over-marketed
segment that also becomes politically charged at election
time.”  
 Former Finance Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  in February
2008 announced a $15 billion waiver for farmers’ debts, seeking
to shore up rural support before general elections. The move was
partly in response to almost 200,000 suicides among Indian
farmers since 1998.  
 “Rural lending is more difficult than urban lending,”
said Amit Kalokhe, a loan officer at Mumbai-based Hindusthan
Microfinance. “If there’s a bad monsoon and the farmers lose
their crops, our money can go along with it that year.”  
 Hindusthan Microfinance tries to reduce risk by making
borrowers pay an 8 percent deposit and lending to groups of
people rather than to individuals, founder Anil Jadhav said in
an interview in Mumbai. “That way, if one person defaults,
others can pay the amount,” he said.  
 The 10,000 rupee advance to towel maker Rathore in Mumbai
was part of a loan to a group of women, according to the company.  
 Credit Bureau  
 Another proposed safeguard is the Microfinance Institutions
Network, which was set up by the largest microlenders in India
and represents almost 80 percent of the industry, according to a
 March 9 statement  from the organization.  
 The entity, whose board includes Basix’s Mahajan and SKS
Microfinance Chief Executive Officer Suresh Gurumani, created a
credit bureau to improve risk management and “ensure multiple
borrowing and over indebtedness is checked,” the release said.  
 Lenders’ efforts at self-regulation may not be enough, said
Ramraj Pai, a director at Crisil.  
 “Central regulation is critical for the continued growth
of the industry and to open new doors for funding,” Pai said.  
 In March 2007, the government proposed the Micro Financial
Sector (Development and Regulation) Bill in the lower house of
parliament, seeking to strengthen oversight.  
 Lapsed Bill  
 Under the bill, the  National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development  would oversee the industry, and microfinance
companies would be forced to set aside 15 percent of profit each
year as reserves. The legislation lapsed when parliament was
dissolved before the 2009 federal elections.  
 As the push for greater state oversight stalls, Rathore is
already mulling how to finance the next major outlay: her 19-
year-old daughter’s wedding.  
 “Once my present loans are paid off, I know there will be
more,” Rathore said from the doorstep of her workshop, looking
past the open sewage drains at the two-room home with a tin-
sheet roof that she shares with four family members. “The cycle
doesn’t end.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Hindusthan Microfinance Pvt. Ltd. employee checks loan application forms at the company's office in Mumbai. 25 million Indians have taken so-called microfinance loans, often without adequate documentation or collateral. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Savita Ramesh Rathore poses for a photograph in the Dharavi slum of Mumbai. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Dharavi slum. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Women work inside a glove making workshop. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Sharda Bhandare cuts towels to make gloves. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
