-- India Ready to Use Security Forces to End Economic Blockade of Manipur
-- Bibhudatta Pradhan
-- 2010-06-14T12:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/india-ready-to-use-security-forces-to-end-economic-blockade-of-manipur.html

          
          
             India’s government is ready to
deploy security forces to end a two-month economic blockade of
the northeastern state of  Manipur  by supporters of a regional
separatist group, as shortages of food and medicine worsen.  
 Organizations supported by ethnic Nagas living in the state
have shut two highways since April 11, first over elections to
autonomous councils they say don’t have powers to build the
local economy and, since early May, to protest a ban on a senior
Naga rebel leader from visiting his birthplace in Manipur.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government will use force
to reopen the routes, Press Trust of India cited Home Secretary
G.K. Pillai as saying. The top bureaucrats of Manipur and
neighboring Nagaland will meet on June 16 to review the
situation, Pillai said.  
 “There is a severe shortage of oil, medicine and rice as
trucks are not able to enter Manipur,” N. Biren Singh, the
Manipur government’s spokesman and a senior minister, said by
phone. “The government’s decision to send forces has come late.
We hope the situation will improve with this.”  
 Manipur barred prominent Naga separatist Thuingaleng Muivah
from travelling to his home village fearing it could stoke
unrest. Muivah’s  National Socialist Council of Nagaland  is
demanding Naga-dominated parts of Manipur be included in a Naga
homeland. The group signed a truce with the Indian government in
1997 and has since held several rounds of talks to end their
insurgency.  
 In New Delhi, a delegation of the Naga Students’ Federation,
which has spearheaded the blockade, met Prime Minister Singh
today. The federation “will consider temporarily suspending the
agitation,” after an appeal by the prime minister, leader
Achumbemo Kikon said in the capital.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        