-- Inexpensive Drug May Save 100,000 Lives a Year After Accidents
-- Michelle Fay Cortez
-- 2010-06-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/inexpensive-generic-drug-may-save-100-000-lives-annually-after-accidents.html

          
          
             A generic drug that costs less than
$10 a treatment may save as many as 100,000 lives a year by
preventing people from bleeding to death after accidents,
researchers said.  
 The medicine,  tranexamic acid , is widely used to control
bleeding in hemophiliacs, after surgery, and by women who have
abnormally heavy menstrual periods. It had never been studied
for accident victims, and doctors worried that it may raise the
risk of heart attacks, strokes and other complications of clots.  
 The drug, given in two injections to patients suffering
from bleeding after accidents, slashed deaths 10 percent
compared with placebo, a study published today in the journal
 Lancet  found. The medicine reduced deaths from bleeding 15
percent, without significant adverse effects, according to the
research, covering more than 20,000 patients from 40 countries.  
 “It’s probably one of the cheapest ways to save a life
there ever was,” said Ian Roberts, the lead researcher, from
the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, at a news
conference in London. “The treatment is seriously cheap. It
doesn’t get much more effective than this.”  
 The study was funded by the National Institute for Health
Research, based in London.  Pfizer Inc. , which sells a version
under the brand name  Cyklokapron , provided the tranexamic acid
from its plant in Sandwich, England. Pfizer, the world’s largest
pharmaceutical company, is based in New York.  
 The researchers asked the  World Health Organization , based
in Geneva, to categorize the drug an essential medicine, on a
shopping list many countries use to determine which products to
purchase, Roberts said. The product costs about 3 pounds ($4.43)
a dose, with one given as an immediate injection and the second
delivered intravenously over an eight-hour period.  
 In the study, 14.5 percent of patients given tranexamic
acid died within four weeks of treatment, compared with 16
percent for placebo. About 4.9 percent given the drug died from
bleeding, compared with 5.7 percent for placebo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in London at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        