-- Inflation Unexpectedly Quickened in May, Adding to Interest Rate Pressure
-- Unni Krishnan
-- 2010-06-14T12:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/inflation-quickens-faster-than-estimates-adding-rate-pressure-on-subbarao.html

          
          
             India’s inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in May, sending bond yields to the highest in almost
1 1/2 months and mounting pressure on the central bank to raise
borrowing costs.  
 The benchmark wholesale-price  index  advanced 10.16 percent
from a year earlier after a 9.59 percent gain in the previous
month, the commerce ministry said in a statement in New Delhi
today. That was faster than the 9.6 percent median forecast of
24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 Prices are rising in tandem with strengthening consumer
demand, evidenced by the 17.6 percent surge in industrial output
in April. The Reserve Bank of India says it will tighten the
monetary policy at a “moderate” pace given the risks to
economic expansion from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  
 “They don’t want to go too fast on raising rates but the
risks are that they are going too slow now,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based strategist at Royal Bank of Canada.
He said there is a “strong possibility” of the central bank
increasing rates by a quarter percentage point before the next
monetary policy announcement on July 27.  
 The Reserve Bank has increased rates twice since mid-March
by a quarter-point each time. The benchmark  reverse repurchase
rate  is 3.75 percent.  
 Rising Yields  
 The yield on the 10-year government bond rose six basis
points to 7.67 percent at 4:45 p.m. in Mumbai, the most since
May 3. The  Sensitive Index  gained 1.6 percent to 17,338.17 on
the Bombay Stock Exchange while the rupee climbed 0.8 percent to
46.49 against the dollar.  
 More “aggressive actions” may run the risk of reversing
the steps should global growth falter, central bank Deputy
Governor  Subir Gokarn  said on June 7.  
 India and China, Asia’s fastest-growing major economies,
are battling to contain inflation as the region shows little
signs of being affected by Europe’s debt woes.  
 China’s  consumer-price inflation  rate rose 3.1 percent in
May, the quickest pace in 19 months, highlighting overheating
risks in the economy.  
 Indian central bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  is facing
other headwinds to tighten monetary policy.  
 Cash Crunch  
 The central bank needs to consider a credit crunch while
setting rates as the payment of license fees for third-
generation phone services drained cash,  Kaushik Basu , chief
economic adviser in the finance ministry, said June 3.  
 As operators including  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  prepared to pay
$14.5 billion for wireless permits, the RBI on May 27 was forced
to ease rules until July 2 to boost liquidity.  
 The central bank said lenders can raise more cash by
cutting their debt holdings by as much as 0.5 percentage point
below the minimum regulatory requirement of 25 percent of
deposits.  
 The cash crunch may also prompt India to postpone or cut
the size of its scheduled bond sales this week, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Securities Trading Corp. said. The finance ministry is
due to auction up to 110 billion rupees ($2.4 billion),
according to the government’s debt sale calendar.  
 Ashok Chawla , the top bureaucrat in the finance ministry,
said today that it’s ‘very unlikely” the government will cancel
the borrowing plan, adding “we’ll handle the liquidity part.”  
 Call Rates  
 Overnight  interbank rates  climbed to 5.43 percent on June
11, their highest level in more than two months. The average
amount of cash borrowed each day by banks from the central
bank’s repurchase auction window jumped six-fold last week.  
 Prices of the so-called “primary articles” including rice
and wheat rose 16.6 percent in May from 13.88 percent in the
previous month, today’s report showed.  Manufacturing inflation 
rate was at 6.41 percent last month.  
 Gokarn said June 7 that food costs may decline if monsoon
rains are sufficient this year.  
 The June-September monsoon is the main source of irrigation
for India’s farms. Prices of agriculture products rose after
last year’s showers were the least since 1972.  
 The inflation reading for March was revised to 11.04
percent from 9.9 percent, according to today’s report. Finance
ministry’s Basu said today that inflation may have “peaked” in
March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        