-- Iranian Aid Ship, Parliamentarians to Make Gaza Trip
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-06-14T16:05:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/iran-to-send-aid-ship-to-gaza-members-of-parliament-seek-to-visit-enclave.html

          
          
             Iran will send a ship carrying aid
to the Gaza Strip to try to breach Israel’s blockade, while four
Iranian lawmakers plan to visit the Palestinian coastal enclave
if Egypt gives them visas.  
 The Iranian ship loaded with medicines and hygiene goods
will leave this week, and a second vessel may be sent at a
later date in an attempt to bring volunteers to Gaza, the
Persian Gulf country’s Red Crescent Society said today,
according to a spokesman who commented by telephone and declined
to be identified in line with agency policy.  
 Parliament Speaker  Ali Larijani  approved the trip for the
four members of the parliament’s National Security and Foreign
Policy Committee, the state-run  Fars  news agency cited one of
the four, Mahmoud Ahmadi-Bighash, as saying today. They are
among 200 Iranian lawmakers who said they wanted to visit Gaza,
Fars reported. The crossing between Egypt and the Gaza Strip, at
Rafah, is controlled by Egyptian authorities and Hamas.  
 Nine pro-Palestinian Turkish activists, including one who
also held U.S. nationality, were killed May 31 when Israeli
commandos raided their boat in international waters. The vessel
was one of six in a flotilla attempting to breach Israel’s
three-year-old blockade of Hamas-controlled Gaza.  
 Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  condemned the Israeli
action as “shameful” and “criminal.” Israel said it issued
numerous warnings to the flotilla to change course for the port
of Ashdod and unload there, before it seized the vessels.  
 Revolutionary Guards  
 Iran has always sent aid to Gaza and will continue to do
so, Ahmadinejad said in a press conference June 8 in Istanbul.  
 Revolutionary Guard Corps Deputy Commander General Hossein
Salami today denied a report that its naval forces will escort
Iranian ships that may carry aid for Gaza, according to  Fars .  
 Gazans continue to suffer from unemployment, poverty and
conflict, while the quality of Gaza’s health-care system has
reached an all-time low, according to a  report  published today
by the International Committee of the Red Cross, with which the
Iranian Red Crescent is affiliated.  
 “The whole of Gaza’s civilian population is being punished
for acts for which they bear no responsibility,” the ICRC said
in the report. “The closure therefore constitutes a collective
punishment imposed in clear violation of Israel’s obligations
under international humanitarian law.”  
 ‘Rebuff’ by Hamas  
 Hamas has continued to “rebuff the ICRC’s requests to let
it visit  Gilad Shalit ,” an Israeli soldier held by the Islamic
group who is to enter his fifth year in captivity, the ICRC
said. Hamas has refused to allow him to get in touch with his
family in violation of international humanitarian law, the
organization said.  
 “The closure is having a devastating impact on the 1.5
million people living in Gaza”, Beatrice Megevand-Roggo, the
ICRC’s head of operations for the Middle East, said in the
report. “That is why we are urging Israel to put an end to this
closure and call upon all those who have an influence on the
situation, including Hamas, to do their utmost to help Gaza’s
civilian population.”  
 Iran, an Islamic nation headed by  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei ,
doesn’t recognize Israel. Ahmadinejad has repeatedly provoked
controversy by reiterating his country’s opposition to Israel’s
existence and saying that the Jewish state is nearing the
“end.”  
 Israel has imposed restrictions on Gaza since Hamas, which
won Palestinian parliamentary elections in 2006, ousted forces
loyal to President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and seized full
control of the territory in 2007. Hamas is considered a
terrorist organization by the U.S., the European Union and
Israel.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ali Sheikholeslami  in London at 
 alis2@bloomberg.net ;
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        