-- Islamic Issuance Must Keep Pace With Industry Growth, CIMB-Principal Says
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-06-14T08:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/islamic-issuance-must-keep-pace-with-industry-growth-cimb-principle-says.html

          
          
             Islamic bond sales are failing to
keep pace with industry growth and companies in the Middle East
need to step up issuance, said Malaysia’s CIMB-Principal Islamic
Asset Management Bhd. and MIDF Amanah Asset Management Bhd.  
 “We have a sukuk portfolio to manage but we don’t have
enough sukuk to invest in,” said  Noripah Kamso , chief executive
officer at CIMB-Principal in Kuala Lumpur, a unit of the second-
biggest underwriter of Islamic bonds in 2009. “The experts in
Shariah law need to evolve products on a fast-track basis to
meet demand.”  
 Issuance of Islamic bonds, or sukuk, dropped 3 percent to
$6.1 billion this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. By
contrast, the $1 trillion industry for financial services
complying with Muslim law, or Shariah, is growing at 15 percent
per year. Assets managed by 680 specialist funds climbed 27
percent last year to about $70 billion, according to Singapore-
based research firm  Eurekahedge Pte .  
 The two funds, which oversee a combined $6.7 billion in
assets, say growth in issuance is slowed by a lack of common
global standards for Shariah-compliant products. That has made
it harder for other nations to take up the slack as Malaysian
companies slow issuance for infrastructure investment, they said.
Ringgit-denominated sukuk accounted for 68 percent of
outstanding debt as of June 11, the data show.  
 Real-Estate Exposure  
 “The Middle East is slightly more constrained because it’s
probably had more real-estate exposure than this part of the
world,”  Harris Irfan , head of Islamic products at Barclays
Capital, said in Singapore. “I’m not sure that this is going to
be a bumper year” for sukuk.  
 Issuers in the Gulf Arab states, which include Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, have raised $2.3 billion so
far this year, about 19 percent less than the amount they
borrowed during the same period of 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Local-currency sukuk sales in Malaysia,
the world’s biggest Islamic bond market, dropped 44 percent to
8.76 billion ringgit ($2.7 billion).  
 Industry specialists converge on Singapore today for the  
World Islamic Banking Conference , the first to be held in Asia.
Topics will include the “harmonization” between Asia and the
Middle East, according to the agenda. Participants include UAE
central bank Governor Sultan Bin Nasser Al Suwaidi and his
Bahrain counterpart,  Rasheed al-Maraj .  
 Sukuk Returns  
 Shariah-compliant bonds have weathered the European debt
crisis better than conventional notes in emerging markets, the
U.S. and Europe so far this year. Islamic bonds returned 5.5
percent, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk
Index , while regular debt in developing markets gained 3.2
percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Plus Index showed.  
 Demand for investments that comply with the religion’s ban
on interest is increasing as the wealth of Muslims rises,
spurred by export-led Asian economic growth and crude-oil income
in the Persian Gulf. Malaysia sold $1.25 billion of five-year
sukuk last month, receiving bids for $5.5 billion, more than
five times the $1 billion originally offered.  
 To ensure Islamic investments meet Shariah principles they
have to be vetted by recognized scholars. Transactions are based
on the exchange of asset flows rather than interest.  
 A shortage of Shariah-qualified bankers and institutions
developing “replicas” of more traditional banking services,
are the main challenges facing policy makers, Salim Ullah,
director for Islamic banking at the State Bank of Pakistan, the
central bank, said on June 2 in an interview.  
 ‘Shallow’ Product  
 MIDF Amanah’s Chief Executive Officer  Scott Lim  said the
company faced difficulties in marketing Islamic investments
because there are no common standards.  
 “The guidelines have to be in place and implemented across
different regions,” Kuala-Lumpur-based Lim said in an interview
on June 10. “The products side is shallow at the moment and
growth in the industry will be held back.”  
 Gulf Arab states may have a single Shariah board for the
region’s Islamic financial institutions by 2013 to standardize
the industry, Hussain Hamed Hassan, head of Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC’s Shariah committee and chairman of the Shariah
Coordination Committee of the Islamic Financial Institutions in
the United Arab Emirates said last week. “It will happen, but
it’s a question of time.”  
 Islamic bonds from Middle Eastern governments are
attractive due to their “credit-worthiness” and new issuances
from the United Arab Emirates warrant an “allocation,”  BNP
Paribas Investment Partners  said.  
 ‘Credit-Worthiness’  
 “Our preferences are for sovereign and quasi-sovereign
credit,” Rafael Martinez Dalmau, director of emerging markets
and Islamic investments at BNP Paribas Investment, the asset
management unit of BNP Paribas SA, said in an telephone
interview from Singapore. “We feel that those are two sectors
that we like in terms of credit-worthiness.”  
 The Islamic finance industry’s assets may reach $1.6
trillion by 2012, according to the Kuala Lumpur-based  Islamic
Financial Services Board , a standards setting body.  
 Global sales of sukuk rose 43 percent to $20 billion in
2009, from $14.1 billion the previous year, according to
Bloomberg data. Offerings of the notes reached a record $31
billion in 2007.  
 Supply will pick up in the second half of this year to
match last year’s issuance, as industry leaders develop more
investments, said CIMB-Principal’s Kamso.  
 “Turkey, Korea, Japan are all looking to offer sukuk and
we have seen interest from investors in Australia, Switzerland
and Canada,” according to Kamso.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
By  Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .
Soraya Permatasari at   soraya@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        