-- Israel to Hold Public Inquiry With Foreign Observers Into Raid on Flotilla
-- Calev Ben-David
-- 2010-06-14T10:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/israel-to-hold-public-inquiry-with-foreign-observers-into-raid-on-flotilla.html

          
          
             Israel’s Cabinet approved a public
probe into a raid on a Gaza-bound flotilla that left nine Turks
dead, a step that Turkey’s foreign minister said was
insufficient and may lead to a reexamination of relations.  
 The commission will examine “the security circumstances
surrounding the imposition of the naval blockade on the Gaza
Strip,” as well as “the conformity of the naval blockade with
the rules of international law” and how Israel’s actions during
the raid conform to that law, a statement from Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu ’s office said.  
 The panel will be headed by former Israeli supreme court
judge Jacob Turkel. Nobel Peace Prize winner and Northern
Ireland politician  David Trimble , and Ken Watkin, former judge
advocate general of Canada’s armed forces, will serve as foreign
observers. Trimble and Watkin won’t have the right to vote,
Minister without Portfolio  Benny Begin  said on Army Radio.  
 Demands for an international probe began after Israel’s May
31 raid in international waters on six ships that were
attempting to breach its three-year blockade on Hamas-controlled
Gaza. United Nations Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  has called
for an international investigation and Turkish Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  called the raid “barbaric.”  
 “We have no belief whatsoever that Israel can conduct an
impartial inquiry,” Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu 
said today. If there’s no international inquiry then “there are
a set of unilateral steps that Turkey can take. We may decide to
review our relations with Israel entirely.”  
 Goldstone Report  
 Israel last year refused to participate in a United Nations
investigation of the 2008 Gaza war, an inquiry its leaders
rejected as one-sided, and Netanyahu turned down a proposal for
a UN-led probe into the ship incident.  
 The UN inquiry into the Gaza war, led by former UN
prosecutor and South African judge  Richard Goldstone , accused
Israel and Hamas of war crimes and called on them to investigate
the charges.  
 “The Cabinet’s decision this morning to establish a
special, independent public commission will make it clear to the
entire world that Israel acts according to law, transparently,
and with full responsibility,” Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told his ministers today.  
 The Obama administration and the United Kingdom both
welcomed the announcement as “an important step forward.” In a
statement, White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  reiterated
the administration’s support for “a prompt, impartial, credible
and transparent investigation.”  
 International Community  
 U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague , speaking in
Luxembourg, stressed the need for “a truly independent inquiry
and a thorough investigation that the international community
can respect.”  
 The commission will also investigate “the actions taken
by the organizers of the flotilla and its participants, as well
as their identity.” Israel has alleged that some members of the
flotilla had links to radical Islamic terror groups.  
 The panel will have the authority to request information
from any Israeli government official, including Netanyahu and
“including through testimony before the commission,” the
statement said. Soldiers will not testify before the committee,
the prime minister said today.  
 The army said June 8 that it had appointed Major-General
 Giora Eiland  to lead a separate military investigation of the
raid.  
 Israel said it issued numerous warnings to the Gaza-bound
flotilla to change course for the port of Ashdod and unload
there. It says that soldiers were attacked with knives and clubs
and seven were wounded, including by gunfire, after people
aboard one of the ships managed to grab Israeli firearms.
Activists have said they threw the firearms into the sea and
that the Israelis instigated the violence.  
 Gaza Restrictions  
 Israel has imposed restrictions on Gaza since the Islamic
Hamas movement, which won Palestinian parliamentary elections in
2006, ousted forces loyal to President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah
group and seized full control of the territory in 2007. Hamas is
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., the European
Union and Israel.  
 Palestinians, backed by the UN and human-rights groups, say
the restrictions on food imports and construction materials have
created a humanitarian crisis. Israel denies that such a crisis
exists, saying it restricts imports of building materials to
Gaza because they can be used to build rockets, bunkers or
bombs. Officials said they also were concerned about weapons
being hidden in food packaging.  
 ‘Giant Arsenal’  
 Israel says its raid on the flotilla was in line with
international law because it acted to enforce a legal blockade
that prevents the Hamas-controlled enclave “from becoming a
giant arsenal.”  
 Israel has a “duty to maintain the safety of citizens who
have been under attack for many years by the terrorist
organizations,” the Ministry of Justice said June 1 in a filing
to the country’s High Court of Justice.  
 The legality of Israel’s blockade turns on two issues, said
 Robin Churchill , a professor of international law at the
University of Dundee in Scotland: Whether Israel’s conflict with
Hamas is a full-fledged war and whether the military benefit is
proportionate to the suffering it imposes on the civilian
population.  
 The  San Remo Manual on International Law Applicable to
Armed Conflicts at Sea , a 1994 code of conduct accepted
globally, allows naval blockades, provided there is a state of
war between the parties, according to Churchill.  
 Rocket Attacks  
 The declining number of rocket attacks on Israel from Gaza
undermines Israel’s argument that it is in a virtual state of
war with Hamas, he says.  
 About 3,200 rockets and mortars were fired from Gaza in
2008, according to the Israeli army. The number of projectiles
fired from Gaza totaled 708 last year and about 160 so far this
year, the army said June 8.  
 Anthony Aust, a former legal adviser to the U.K. Foreign
Office, said the blockade may still be covered by international
law because Israel can make a case of self-defense, even though
it appears to have used “excessive” force in the May 31 raid.  
 Israel launched its three-week military offensive in Gaza
in December 2008 saying that it was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 Hamas’s charter calls for the destruction of the Jewish
state. Hamas leaders say they will renounce violence when Israel
withdraws from territory occupied in 1967 and allows
Palestinians to return to areas in Israel from which they fled
in 1948.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net 
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced in the meeting that David Trimble and Ken Watkin will take part as observers in the Gaza Aid Flotilla inquiry headed by Israel's retired supreme Court judge Jacob Turkel. Photographer: Baz Ratner - Pool/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
