-- Italy Starts World Cup Defense With Paraguay Tie; Netherlands, Japan Win
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-06-14T23:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/italy-starts-world-cup-defense-with-paraguay-tie-netherlands-japan-win.html

          
          
             Italy started the defense of its
World Cup soccer title last night with a 1-1 tie against
Paraguay. The Netherlands and Japan both won their first games.  
 Italy, aiming to match Brazil’s record five titles, rallied
in the second half in driving rain in Cape Town, South Africa,
with  Daniele De Rossi  scoring after 63 minutes. Antolin Alcaraz
gave Paraguay a 39th-minute lead in the Group F opener.  
 “We played well and deserved to win,” Italy coach
 Marcello Lippi  told reporters. “Unfortunately, they scored from
the only dangerous situation they created. Then we had a great
reaction from our team, we responded well. But we have to be
more effective.”  
 Italy, which has progressed from the group stage at the
past eight World Cups, and Paraguay each have one point, with
New Zealand and Slovakia set to play their first match today.  
 In yesterday’s Group E matches, the Netherlands won 2-0
against Denmark, while Japan beat Cameroon 1-0. The Netherlands,
runner-up in 1974 and 1978, is now unbeaten in 20 matches.  
 New Zealand and Slovakia meet in Bloemfontein in the other
game in Italy and Paraguay’s group. Brazil takes on North Korea
in Johannesburg and Portugal and the Ivory Coast play in Port
Elizabeth.  
 Italy struggled to assert itself in the first half against
Paraguay, which led at halftime after Alcaraz outjumped  Fabio Cannavaro  and De Rossi to head a cross from Aureliano Torres
past  Gianluigi Buffon .  
 Defensive Problems  
 “We are not very happy,” defender Domenico Criscito said.
“We had some problems with our defense. The defense is not like
it was in 2006 in Germany.”  
 Paraguay, which has three times reached the round of 16,
was looking for a first win against Italy.  
 The Italians replaced Buffon, who had a back problem, with
Federico Marchetti at halftime, but Paraguay struggled to test
his replacement as Italy started to take control.  
 Italy’s goal came after Paraguay keeper Justo Villar failed
to collect a corner, allowing De Rossi to strike.  
 “We played good football in the second half,” Italian
captain Fabio Cannavaro said. “Scoring a goal when you’re
losing isn’t easy.”  
 Italy continues its campaign against New Zealand on June 20
before playing its final group game against Slovakia four days
later.  
 Kuyt’s Goal  
 An own goal by  Daniel Agger  just after halftime and a late
score by  Dirk Kuyt  gave the Dutch victory at Soccer City stadium
in Johannesburg.  
 Dutch coach  Bert van Marwijk  described his team’s first-
half performance as “tense” and frustrating.  
 “We wanted to play beautiful football but we lost the ball
too often,”  Van Marwijk  said. “Things got better after the
first goal, then you saw what we are capable of doing.”  
 Agger’s own goal was initially attributed to Simon Poulsen
by world governing body FIFA before it changed its decision on
reviewing television pictures. With five minutes left, Kuyt
scored from three yards when substitute Eljero Elia’s shot
bounced off the post.  
 Poulsen cleared  Robin van Persie’s  shot off the goal-line
with two minutes left.  
 Sound of Horns  
 During the game,  Van Persie  gestured to French referee
 Stephane Lannoy  that he couldn’t hear him whistle because of the
din of fans blowing horns in the stands.  
 In Bloemfontein, Keisuke Honda received a cross from the
right by Daisuke Matsui at the far post and struck the ball past
goalkeeper Hamidou Souleymanou after 39 minutes to secure
Japan’s win.  
 “Our defense did well today, but we need to be more
aggressive in attack,” Japan coach  Takeshi Okada  said. “In the
next game against the Netherlands, we need to go one step
further.”  
 The country’s only previous World Cup victories came when
it was co-host with South Korea eight years ago. That was the
only time it has advanced beyond the group stage. Cameroon, a
quarterfinalist in 1990, had never previously lost its opening
game.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        