-- J&J Wins Dismissal of Pennsylvania's Risperdal Case
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-14T17:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/j-j-wins-dismissal-of-pennsylvania-s-risperdal-case.html

          
          
             Johnson & Johnson  won dismissal of
Pennsylvania’s suit alleging that the drugmaker hid health risks
of its Risperdal antipsychotic drug and duped officials into
paying millions more than they should have for the medicine.  
 Judge Frederica Massiah-Jackson in Philadelphia today
granted the company’s request to throw out the suit after
finding the state hadn’t produced enough evidence the company
improperly marketed Risperdal to continue the trial. State
lawyers had presented a week’s testimony to jurors.  
 “Any time you get something like this dismissed, it’s a
positive,”  Les Funtleyder , an analyst with Miller Tabak & Co.
in New York, said in a telephone interview. He recommends buying
J&J shares and doesn’t own any. “J&J’s reputation has been hit
a little bit recently, so I guess this helps somewhat.”  
 The Pennsylvania case was the first of 10 states’ suits
over J&J’s Risperdal marketing practices to go before a jury. A
West Virginia judge last year ordered J&J and Janssen to pay
that state $3.95 million on a similar claim.  
 Pennsylvania officials sought to recover $289 million in
alleged overcharges tied to prescriptions covered by state-
sponsored health plans.  
 “We are pleased with the judge’s decision that the
evidence presented failed to show” a unit of J&J defrauded the
state in connection with Risperdal sales,  Greg Panico , a company
spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  
 Appeal Likely  
 Attorneys for the state are studying Massiah-Jackson’s
ruling, Camp Bailey, one of the lawyers representing
Pennsylvania, said in an e-mailed statement. “It’s likely we
will file an appeal,” he said.  
 Risperdal generated $3.4 billion in  sales  in 2008, or
5.4 percent of sales for New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J.
The drug, made by its  Janssen  Pharmaceutica unit, was one of
J&J’s biggest sellers before its patent protection expired.
Pennsylvania officials paid for Risperdal prescriptions written
for patients covered by state-sponsored health programs.  
 J&J has faced criticism from lawmakers about a unit’s
decision to recall children’s medicines because of manufacturing
defects without notifying regulators or consumers.  
 The company faces hundreds of lawsuits by former Risperdal
users alleging the company downplayed the medicine’s diabetes
risk and overstated its benefits. Consumers contend the
drugmaker boosted sales by marketing the drug for unapproved
uses, such as treating dementia patients.  
 Justice Department Probe  
 The Justice Department is investigating such practices by
Janssen and other drugmakers. States including Louisiana and
Utah sued claiming J&J violated federal prohibitions against
off-label marketing or misled doctors and consumers, according
to company regulatory filings.  
 Judge  Martin Gaughan  in Wellsburg, West Virginia found in
2009 that J&J and the Janssen unit misled doctors about the
risks and benefits of Risperdal. The state alleged the companies
violated consumer protection law by claiming Risperdal was safer
than similar medications. J&J has appealed the decision.  
 Under U.S. law, a doctor can prescribe a medicine for any
condition, as long as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
found it safe and effective for at least one ailment.  
 Drugmakers aren’t allowed to promote a drug for uses other
than those approved by the FDA. Until 2003, Risperdal was
approved only for psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. It
was never approved for dementia.  
 Pennsylvania’s Arguments  
 Pennsylvania’s lawyers argued in the Philadelphia Common
Pleas Court case that J&J artificially inflated Risperdal’s
price by wrongfully touting the drug as safer than competitors
such as Eli Lilly & Co.’s Zyprexa and AstraZeneca Plc’s
Seroquel. Researchers have concluded the drugs all pose the same
diabetes risk, Pennsylvania officials said.  
 J&J ignored repeated admonitions from the FDA to stop
claiming Risperdal was superior to other antipsychotics and
justified the drug’s premium price by citing those false claims,
the state’s lawyers told jurors.  
 The company countered that Risperdal’s benefits in treating
mentally ill patients outweighed its diabetes risk. Pennsylvania
regulators appeared to agree with that assessment by keeping the
medicine on the state’s preferred-drug list, a J&J lawyer told
the jury when the trial opened.  
 After the state finished presenting evidence last week,
Johnson & Johnson asked Massiah-Jackson to find Pennsylvania
officials hadn’t made a legitimate fraud case.  
 Case Dismissed  
 The judge agreed, dismissing the case before Johnson &
Johnson had to begin presenting its defense.  
 Fletch Trammell, a lawyer who represented Pennsylvania,
said Massiah-Jackson’s ruling means state law might not provide
a basis for recovering damages for defrauded public programs.  
 “If this ruling stands, it would mean that the state could
be the victim of the largest of frauds and have no means of
recovery,” Trammell said in a telephone interview.  
 The next state trial on Risperdal overcharge allegations is
set for September in South Carolina, Trammell said. He and his
law firm represent the state in that case as well.  
 The potential damages in the South Carolina case “run into
the billions,” Trammell said.  
 The Pennsylvania case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Janssen Pharmaceutica Inc., 002181, Philadelphia Court of Common
Pleas (Philadelphia).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Philadelphia
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        