-- Japanese Stocks Gain on U.S. Consumer Confidence; Shipping Lines Advance
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-06-14T06:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/japanese-stocks-gain-on-u-s-consumer-confidence-nissan-canon-advance.html

          
          
             Japanese  stocks  gained for a third
day as rising sentiment among U.S. consumers and an improved
outlook for capital spending stoked expectations earnings will
increase.  
 Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
climbed 5.1 percent on speculation higher trade volume will
boost profit. Fanuc Ltd., Japan’s biggest maker of industrial
robots, advanced 2.3 percent after a government report showed
businesses plan to boost investment in equipment.  Mitsubishi
Estate Co.  and Tokyu Land Corp. sent property companies higher
after Credit Suisse Group AG raised their investment ratings to
“outperform.”  
 “Japanese businesses are benefiting from the improved
global economy, and I don’t think we have to worry about company
earnings this year,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a strategist in
Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees
more than $65 billion. “U.S. economic data remain resilient,
and economies continue to improve globally.”  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  climbed 1.8 percent to
9,879.85 at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The broader  Topix index 
rose 1.4 percent to 878.56, with almost seven times as many
shares advancing as falling.  
 The Topix index has lost 3.2 percent this year, set for its
biggest six-month slide since December 2008, on concern mounting
government deficits in Europe and measures by China to cool its
property market will damp the global recovery. The slump has
driven down the price of stocks in the gauge to 1.06 times  book
value , the lowest level among benchmark indexes for the world’s
15 biggest markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 European Debt  
 “Stocks are undervalued with their price-to-book values
having fallen to a ratio of about one,” said  Masahiko Sato , an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 In New York, the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.4
percent on June 11 as the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary index of  consumer sentiment  advanced to 75.5 in June,
the highest level since January 2008. Earlier, the S&P 500 had
slid as much as 0.9 percent after a Commerce Department report
showed sales at U.S. retailers dipped 1.2 percent in May, the
first decline in eight months.  
 A Greece-triggered sovereign debt crisis in Europe prompted
Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan to call for cross-party
cooperation in tackling Japan’s deficit. In his first policy
address on June 11, Kan pledged to balance the country’s budget
by 2020, saying inaction may send Japan into bankruptcy.  
 “This isn’t the right time for Japan to start fixing its
fiscal problems,” said Mitsubishi UFJ’s Ishigane. “It will
worsen the economy, reduce tax incomes and aggravate its budget
deficit.”  
 Shipping Lines  
 Shipping lines posted the  steepest advance  among the
Topix’s 33 industry groups. Nippon Yusen jumped 5.1 percent to
351 yen. Kawasaki Kisen, the third biggest by sales, rose 4.1
percent to 380 yen.  
 The Washington-based  National Retail Federation  said on
June 10 that imports through major U.S. container ports may grow
15 percent year-on-year in September and 12 percent in October,
traditionally the busiest month of the year.  
 Fanuc jumped 2.3 percent to 10,620 yen. Tsugami Corp.,
which makes machine tools, soared 13 percent to 616 yen.
Japanese businesses plan to increase spending on plants and
equipment by 9.7 percent this fiscal year, the government report
showed before markets opened today. Companies had projected a
decline three months ago.  
 Honda Strike  
 Mitsubishi Estate, Japan’s second-biggest property
developer, rose 2.2 percent to 1,342 yen, and  Tokyu Land  jumped
5.2 percent to 347 yen. The stocks had their investment ratings
raised from “neutral” by Credit Suisse Group on June 11. The
brokerage also reiterated its “overweight” view on Japan’s
property industry, saying markets for office buildings and
condominiums will improve.  
 Honda Motor Co., the nation’s No. 2 automaker, climbed 4
percent to 2,711 yen and was the biggest contributor to the
Topix’s advance. The majority of striking workers at Honda Lock
(Guangdong) Co. in Zhongshan, agreed to an offer from the
plant’s management, according to the company. The walkout
followed two others at Honda suppliers in China that halted the
automaker’s car production in the country.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Employees talk during an afternoon trading session at the Tokyo Stock Exchange in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
