-- Japan Manufacturers Optimistic for Fourth Quarter as Exports Gain Traction
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-06-14T02:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/japan-manufacturer-optimists-outnumber-pessimists-after-earnings-improved.html

          
          
             Japan’s large manufacturers said
business conditions improved from three months ago, signaling
the nation’s export-led recovery is gaining traction even as
Europe’s debt woes roil global financial markets.  
 Sentiment  was 10 points compared with 4.3 points last
quarter, the government said in a report in Tokyo today.
Companies said they plan to increase spending on plant and
equipment by 9.7 percent this fiscal year, compared with the 5.5
percent cutbacks projected three months ago.  
 Japan’s economy has so far withstood the European sovereign
debt crisis, with growth accelerating last quarter on shipments
to Asia. Exporters from  Nissan Motor Co.  to  Komatsu Ltd.  are
anticipating higher profit as global demand recovers.  
 “It’s significant that the report confirmed business
confidence improved despite the financial-market instability,”
said  Norio Miyagawa , a senior economist at Shinko Research
Institute in Tokyo. “Companies have started spending to replace
old assets, but the recovery hasn’t reached a level where
they’re increasing spending to expand production capacity.”  
 The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.6 percent to 9,856.76
at the morning close in Tokyo. The gauge has lost 6 percent in
the past month on investor concern the European debt crisis will
hurt global growth. The yen weakened 0.3 percent against the
dollar and 0.8 percent versus the euro, easing concern that a
stronger currency will erode exporters’ earnings.  
 The result offers a hint of the outcome likely in the Bank
of Japan’s  Tankan survey , the nation’s most closely watched
gauge of corporate confidence, due July 1. The Tankan measures
the overall level of sentiment rather than asking respondents to
compare their mood with the previous period.  
 Service Companies  
 Service companies turned optimistic for the first time in
11 quarters. The index for large non-manufacturers was plus 0.9
points, compared with minus 6.3 points the previous three months.
Those findings add to evidence that some parts of the domestic
economy have been improving after wages rose for a second month
in April.  
 “The manufacturer recovery is gradually spilling over to
non-manufacturers and the Tankan survey is likely to show a
similar improvement,” Shinko Research’s Miyagawa said.  
 Profits are forecast to rise 29.1 percent in the year
ending March 31, compared with the 32.3 percent gain projected
three months ago, today’s report showed.  
 Stimulus spending by governments worldwide has revived
global trade, benefiting Japanese manufacturers.  
 Nissan , Japan’s third-largest automaker, may increase
electric-car production capacity in Japan if the company can
find enough batteries to make the vehicles, Chief Operating
Officer  Toshiyuki Shiga  said last week. Nissan forecast in May
profit will more than triple this fiscal year as auto demand
recovers in North America and sales grow in China.  
 Orders Jump  
 Komatsu , the world’s second-largest maker of excavators,
expects North American sales to expand about 30 percent in the
fiscal second half as U.S. housing recovers, President  Kunio Noji  said last month. The company forecast in April profit will
almost triple this fiscal year as Chinese orders jump.  
 Still, exporters’ profit outlook is under threat from a
rising yen. Concern that Europe’s efforts to cut budget deficits
will hamper the regional recovery sent the euro to an eight-year
low against the yen last week.  
 “Uncertainties about the economy’s outlook will prompt
companies to keep a large amount of cash on hand and prevent
them from expanding investment to beef up production,” said
 Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo. Companies “aren’t in the mood to enlarge capacity.”  
 The Cabinet Office and Finance Ministry conducted the survey
of 15,828 companies up to May 15. Large manufacturers are
companies with more than 1 billion yen ($11 million) in capital.
The survey asks respondents whether conditions improved from the
previous quarter, and a positive number means optimists
outnumber pessimists.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nissan Motor Co.'s Infiniti brand vehicles bound for China, are given a final check after passing through the assembly line at the company's Tochigi plant in Tochigi Prefecture, Japan. Photographer: Robert Gilhooly/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
