-- Kenya Explosion Kills 6 People at Rally Against Constitution, KTN Says
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-06-14T07:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/kenya-explosion-kills-6-people-at-rally-against-constitution-ktn-says.html

          
          
             An explosion at a rally to oppose a
proposed constitution in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, killed six
people and injured at least 75, Kenya Television News reported,
citing hospital workers.  
 “The government will do anything possible to uncover those
who are behind this very heinous act,” Internal Security
Minister  George Saitoti  told Nairobi-based television station
KTN late yesterday.  
 The rally in a downtown park was led by religious leaders
and politicians who oppose a draft constitution that is
scheduled to be put to a national referendum on Aug. 4. They
disagree with a clause that stipulates women can terminate
pregnancies that pose a risk to their health and another, which
is also in the current constitution, that recognizes Islamic
law.  
 KTN news footage showed throngs of people trying to flee in
every direction as smoke rose from the ground. Police and army
officers are scouring the scene of the incident behind yellow
police tape today.  
 Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  and his partner in a coalition
government President  Mwai Kibaki  support the proposed
constitution, which lawmakers approved on April 1.  
 U.S. Vice President  Joe Biden , who was in Kenya on an
official visit from June 8 to June 10, called on Kenyans to
turnout for the constitutional vote in large numbers, saying it
would help strengthen democracy.  
 The adoption of a new constitution was a key element of a
power-sharing accord decided in 2008 to end post-election
violence that killed 1,500 Kenyans and displaced another
300,000. It is meant to replace the current charter dating back
to the country’s independence from Britain in 1963, in which the
president holds most power. The draft aims to decentralize
government decision-making and curb abuses of authority by the
state.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        