-- Kenya Police Hunt Suspects After Five Are Killed Following Blasts at Rally
-- Eric Ombok
-- 2010-06-14T13:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/kenya-police-hunt-suspects-after-five-are-killed-following-blasts-at-rally.html

          
          
             Kenyan  police are hunting for
suspects behind three grenade explosions at a rally yesterday in
Nairobi that caused a stampede and resulted in the deaths of
five people, Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  said.  
 The authorities are “following some leads,” Odinga told
reporters today in the capital, without saying who might have
been involved in the incident in which 109 people were injured.  
 “During this time of grave national concern, the government
appeals to Kenyans to be calm and to avoid unnecessary
speculation,” Odinga said.  
 The explosions occurred at Uhuru Park in downtown Nairobi
during a rally led by religious leaders and politicians who
oppose a draft constitution that’s scheduled to be put to a
national referendum on Aug. 4. Opponents of the document reject
a clause that stipulates women can terminate pregnancies that
pose a risk to their health and another, which is also in the
current constitution, recognizing Islamic law.  
 Bishop David Oginde, head of the Nairobi Pentecostal Church
and an opponent of the new constitution, said at least seven
people were killed in the incident and church leaders hold the
government “responsible” for the attack.  
 Kenya’s shilling depreciated the most in a week today,
falling as much as 1 percent to 81.44 against the dollar. It was
trading down 0.3 percent at 80.85 as of 1:57 p.m. in Nairobi.  
 U.S. Condemnation  
 The U.S. government “strongly” condemned yesterday’s
violence, Ambassador  Michael Ranneberger  said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 “We support all Kenyans in wanting to see the
constitutional review process carried out through responsible
programs,” he said. “We urge all Kenyans to eschew and to
condemn violence and hate speech, which are extremely counter-
productive.”  
 The adoption of a new constitution is a key element of a
power-sharing accord decided in 2008 to end post-election
violence that killed 1,500 Kenyans and displaced another
300,000. It is meant to replace the current charter dating back
to the East African nation’s independence from Britain in 1963,
in which the president holds most power. The draft aims to
decentralize government decision-making and curb abuses of
authority by the state.  
 Odinga said opponents and supporters of the proposed
constitution should continue their campaigns ahead of the August
referendum. The blasts should be treated as an “isolated
incident,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        