-- Kerviel `Very Tired, Tense' as SocGen Uncovered Trades, Friend Tells Court
-- Carol Matlack
-- 2010-06-14T12:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/kerviel-very-tired-tense-as-socgen-uncovered-trades-friend-tells-court.html

          
          
             Jerome Kerviel  was “very tense,
very tired” the day  Societe Generale SA  uncovered faked hedges
he used to hide unauthorized bets that cost the bank 4.9 billion
euros ($6 billion), a friend told a Paris court.  
 Valerie Rolland-Lesueur, who had worked with Kerviel at the
bank’s compliance and control group, wiped her eyes and accepted
a bottle of water from Kerviel while testifying about their
friendship and the bank’s compliance techniques.  
 “I found him very tense, very tired that day, but he was
often tired,” Rolland-Lesueur told the court, saying she had
coffee with him the morning of Jan. 18, 2008, the day the bank
said it spotted the faked trades.  
 Kerviel, 33, is on trial for his role in the trading loss
at France’s second-largest bank by market value. The Paris-based
bank disclosed the loss on Jan. 24, 2008, with then-Chief
Executive Officer  Daniel Bouton  calling Kerviel a “terrorist.”
He faces as many as five years in jail and 375,000 euros in
fines if found guilty.  
 Christophe Mianne  managed the bank’s market activities at
the time. He said he ordered his traders to follow three rules:
“You must be faithful, you must be transparent, and you must
respect the limits.”  
 Kerviel knew he was going to be discovered, Mianne said.  
 “And what did he do? He increased his position. He was
running into a wall. And he accelerated,” Mianne said.  
 ‘Heart Attack’  
 Mianne said if he were holding positions the size of those
Kerviel held, he “would have had a heart attack.”  
 Before the  public disclosures  about the loss, bank
employees weren’t told what happened to Kerviel, who had
disappeared from the bank’s trading room floor.  
 “We said ‘we don’t see Jerome, where is he?’” Rolland-
Lesueur, who is now a compliance officer at Societe Generale’s
private bank in Monaco, testified. “Could he have gone on
vacation? I was very worried.”  
 She “heard after the fact” of Kerviel’s activities,
Rolland-Lesueur said. “I have trouble imagining that someone at
the heart of the bank could take positions of that scale.”  
 Kerviel’s lawyer,  Olivier Metzner , disputed the claim that
no one knew of Kerviel’s activities, playing a tape recording of
a Jan. 24, 2008, phone call between one of Kerviel’s Societe
Generale colleagues and a former colleague who had since moved
to BNP Paribas SA.  
 ‘Speculated a Lot’  
 “Why do you say it’s Jerome?” said  Manuel Zabraniecki  in
the taped call to BNP trader,  Guillaume Dolisi , made after
Societe Generale’s press conference about the loss and before
Kerviel’s name had been disclosed.  
 Kerviel “speculated a lot on futures,” Dolisi said in the
call.  
 Zabraniecki and Dolisi, who were both scheduled to testify
at the trial, didn’t appear at the court.  
 Kerviel worked for Societe Generale for more than seven
years, moving from the compliance and control group to the
trading desks in 2005, a move Rolland-Lesueur called “fairly
rare.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Former trader for Societe Generale SA Jerome Kerviel. Photographer: Antoine Antoniol/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
