-- Kerviel Tells Court He Didn't Try to Evade Societe Generale Trade Limits
-- Carol Matlack
-- 2010-06-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/kerviel-denies-he-sought-to-evade-societe-generale-controls-at-paris-trial.html

          
          
             Jerome Kerviel  didn’t try to evade
trading controls at  Societe Generale SA , he said during a trial
over his role in unauthorized trades that cost the bank 4.9
billion euros ($6 billion).  
 Kerviel told a Paris court his objective in faking hedges
was to carry his real trading positions forward, “to be able to
realize a gain for the bank.” Kerviel, 33, is charged with
falsifying documents, computer hacking and abuse of trust in
connection with the 2008 trading loss at France’s second-largest
bank by market value.  
 Judge Dominique Pauthe read a series of Kerviel’s trades
indicating that his positions rose from 2.4 billion euros in
April 2007 to 14.4 billion euros by November of that year. While
he said he never explicitly told his supervisors about the
trades, Kerviel said the scope of the trades bolstered his
claims that the bank knew about his activities.  
 “Did I get up one day and say I’ll go see a manager and
tell him I’ve got 30 billion euros? The answer is no,” Kerviel
said.  
 As his positions grew larger, Kerviel said he was in a
“spiral” and changed records on bank computers.  
 Kerviel testified he entered the bank’s computerized
control systems to alter details of some transactions, saying he
did so to be sure the risk for each was accurately recorded. He
denied that he altered data in another system, saying he didn’t
have the log in information.  
 ‘False Things’  
 “A lot of false things have been said,” Kerviel
testified. “Traders didn’t have access to the back office
control system.”  
 Claire Dumas, a risk controller who is testifying on behalf
of the bank, said Kerviel used friendships he made during the
years he worked with the compliance and control group to avoid
closer review of his actions.  
 “There was a clear breach of the famous Chinese wall”
between traders and controllers, Dumas said. “The chain of
control was clearly misused.”  
 Yesterday, a friend of Kerviel testified that he was “very
tense, very tired” the January 2008 day Societe Generale
uncovered the faked hedges.  
 Valerie Rolland-Lesueur, who had worked with Kerviel at the
bank’s compliance and control group, wiped her eyes and accepted
a bottle of water from Kerviel while testifying about their
friendship and the bank’s compliance techniques.  
 “I found him very tense, very tired that day, but he was
often tired,” Rolland-Lesueur told the court, saying she had
coffee with him on Jan. 18, 2008, the day the bank spotted the
faked trades.  
 Faithful, Transparent  
 Christophe Mianne  managed the bank’s market activities at
the time. He said he ordered his traders to follow three rules:
“You must be faithful, you must be transparent, and you must
respect the limits.”  
 Kerviel knew he was going to be discovered, Mianne said.  
 “And what did he do? He increased his position. He was
running into a wall. And he accelerated,” Mianne said.  
 Jean Veil , a lawyer for the bank, said Kerviel’s position
that the bank looked away as long as he was winning was
“incoherent” given the fact that for the first half of 2007,
his positions were losing.  
 “You’ll have to ask them,” Kerviel said when asked why
his bosses didn’t act then.  
 He faces as many as five years in jail and 375,000 euros in
fines if found guilty.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
 Carol Matlack  in Paris at 
 carol_matlack@businessweek.com .  
          
          


  


        