-- Belgian King Tries to Broker Unity After Election Deepened Regional Split
-- John Martens
-- 2010-06-14T14:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/king-tries-to-broker-belgian-unity-after-election-deepened-regional-split.html

          
          
             Belgian  King Albert II  began
consulting political party leaders, starting with a Flemish
nationalist and French-speaking Socialist, in a bid for unity
after general elections hardened the nation’s divisions.  
 Voters yesterday made the Flemish nationalist party leader
 Bart De Wever  and Socialist Party President  Elio Di Rupo  clear
regional winners, giving them both claims to the prime
minister’s post in a probable six-party coalition.  
 “Their leadership won’t be questioned in coalition
talks,” said  Carl Devos , a politics professor at Ghent
University, in a telephone interview today. “We’ll probably get
simultaneous negotiations as De Wever will seek backing from
other Flemish parties and at the same time he’ll need to speak
to the French-speaking parties.”  
 Yesterday’s vote clearly split the country between a
conservative-minded, Dutch-speaking north and a leftist-leaning,
French-speaking south. All parties say they are eager to seek
solutions to Belgium’s decades-long squabbles over finances,
language and regional powers, with the country set to take over
the European Union’s six-month presidency on July 1.  
 The royal palace said the monarch met with De Wever, 39,
after his New-Flemish Alliance, or N-VA, won 27 seats in
national elections, emerging as the  biggest party  in parliament.
Di Rupo, who news agency Belga said would also meet the monarch
today, led his Socialists to 26 seats in yesterday’s vote,
overtaking the Liberals among French-speaking parties.  
 Special Envoy  
 After completing his consultations with party leaders, King
Albert traditionally appoints a special envoy, known as an
“informateur” in French, to investigate possible coalitions.  
 Di Rupo, 58, told De Standaard on June 12 that it shouldn’t
take more than 10 days to start formal coalition talks. De
Wever, who won the elections advocating an overhaul of Belgium’s
governing structure, will seek a government with a two-third
majority needed to make changes to the country’s  constitution .  
 A six-party coalition made up of N-VA, Christian Democrats
and Socialists in the Dutch-speaking north and of PS, Humanists
and Greens among French-speaking parties would have 100 of the
150 seats in parliament. Such a coalition would reflect the
ruling regional governments on  both sides  of the linguistic
 divide , signaling that the regions are getting the upper hand in
Belgian politics.  
 Keen to speed up the coalition formation, De Wever has
already offered the post of prime minister to a French speaker
in an attempt to facilitate an agreement over the distribution
of more powers to the regional authorities.  
 French Speaker  
 Di Rupo could become the first French speaker from Wallonia
in the job since Edmond Leburton in 1974 as Dutch- and French-
speaking Socialists have a combined 39 seats in parliament. That
compares with 31 seats for the Liberals and the centrist
Democrats’ 26.  
 Both Di Rupo and De Wever have said they’re committed to
spending cuts and balancing the budget by 2015. That requires 22
billion euros of reduced expenditures or tax increases,
according to May 19 projections from the  Federal Planning
Bureau .  
 Belgium’s budget deficit will narrow to 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 5.9 percent in 2009, the
Leterme-led government said in March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        