-- Emergency Bans on Naked CDS Trades Considered by EU
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-06-14T14:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/naked-credit-default-swap-trades-should-be-banned-eu-lawmaker-report-says.html

          
          
             National regulators may be given
“emergency powers” to “prohibit or restrict” naked credit-
default swaps trades, under proposals being considered by the
European Union in the wake of the region’s debt crisis.  
 The measures would be “temporary in nature and subject to
coordination” by the European Securities and Markets Authority,
the European Commission said in a statement. The European
Parliament is also scheduled to  vote  tomorrow on separate
proposals to restrict trading in credit-default swaps.  
 French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  called on the commission last week to speed up
curbs on financial speculation, saying some bets against stocks
and government bonds should be banned as markets suffer a
resurgence of “strong volatility.” Germany banned some naked
short-selling last month.  
 “I would hope that the political pressure on sovereign CDS
doesn’t obscure the problems in naked CDS on the financial
sector,”  Richard Portes , professor of economics at London
Business School, said in a telephone interview. “Financial
firms and some sovereigns are dependent on market funding in the
short term. That’s where naked CDS can do the most damage.”  
 Sovereign Debt Crisis  
 European banks are at risk of writedowns from the sovereign
debt crisis, as rating downgrades for Spain, Portugal and Greece
triggered concern some European nations would struggle to fund
their deficits. Investors are shunning bank securities on
concern those countries’ bonds held by the lenders will plunge
in value.  
 Bans may be considered in case of “adverse developments
which constitute a serious threat to financial stability or to
market confidence,” the commission, the EU’s executive body,
said today.  
 The debt crisis sent the euro to a four-year low against
the dollar on June 7 and has wiped out more than $4 trillion
from global stock markets this year. European leaders unveiled a
750 billion-euro ($918 billion) rescue mechanism last month to
stem contagion from Greece, initially reversing a surge in the
risk premium on Spanish and Portuguese bonds.  
 Commission president  Jose Barroso  and Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier  last week promised to accelerate
their plans to regulate credit-default swaps, without saying if
they would favor bans on some transactions. They’ve said the
German measures would have been more effective had they been
coordinated across the 27-nation bloc.  
 OTC Derivatives  
 The commission is seeking views on its swaps plan as part
of public consultations on possible rules that also include
over-the-counter derivatives. Respondents have until
July 10 to submit views on the policy options.  
 In a separate report, members of the European Parliament’s
economic and monetary affairs committee called for a ban on
“CDS transactions with no underlying credit which are purely
speculative transactions involving bets on credit defaults.”  
 “There are some political groups that want to ban naked
sovereign CDS,” said  Werner Langen , the sponsor of the report
at the EU assembly, whose role is to amend proposed laws drawn
up by the commission.  
 Langen, a German Christian Democrat member of the
Parliament, said he personally doesn’t support calls for a ban,
inserted by socialist and Green lawmakers on the committee. He
said he favors giving “regulatory authorities the possibility
to check on a case by case basis.”  
 Defaults  
 Credit-default swaps are derivatives that pay the buyer
face value if a borrower -- a country or a company -- defaults.
In exchange, the swap seller gets the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent. Traders in naked credit-default swaps buy
insurance on bonds they don’t own.  
 Plans for tighter regulation of the $605 trillion over-the-
counter derivatives market, also released for comment today,
would see a greater number of the products traded through
central clearinghouses.  
 Corporate users of derivatives will only be forced to trade
through a central counterparty if the amount they trade exceeds
a threshold to be defined at a later date.  
 This approach would create a “sensible system that
reflects the economic and financial hedging needs of corporate
end-users,” the commission said in its proposals.  
 The move follows pressure from business organizations,
including the Confederation of British Industry, for corporate
exemptions from enforced clearing of over-the-counter
derivatives.  
 Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, reducing the risk
that a trader defaults on a deal.  
 The commission will make formal proposals for rules on
over-the-counter derivatives and credit-default swaps in
September, spokeswoman  Chantal Hughes  said today.  
 Legislation must be approved by governments and lawmakers
in the EU Parliament before it can enter into force, a process
that can take more than a year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at  bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel, left, and President of France Nicolas Sarkozy called on the European commission to speed up curbs of financial speculation. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
