-- Netherlands Beats Denmark 2-0, Japan Tops Cameroon 1-0 in World Cup Games
-- James Cone
-- 2010-06-14T18:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/netherlands-defeat-denmark-2-0-in-opening-group-e-game-at-world-cup.html

          
          
             The Netherlands beat Denmark 2-0
today to win their opening World Cup game, while Japan defeated
Cameroon 1-0.  
 An own goal by  Daniel Agger  just after halftime and a late
score by  Dirk Kuyt  gave the Dutch victory at Soccer City stadium
in Johannesburg. Japan recorded an opening-match win for a first
time on a close-range strike by Keisuke Honda in Bloemfontein.  
 The Netherlands, runner-up in 1974 and 1978, extended their
unbeaten run to 20 matches after a “tense” and frustrating
first half, coach  Bert van Marwijk  said.  
 “We wanted to play beautiful football but we lost the ball
too often,”  Van Marwijk  said. “Things got better after the
first goal, then you saw what we are capable of doing.”  
 The Netherlands and Japan, which both have three points,
meet in the next round of group games on June 19. Defending
champion Italy plays Paraguay in today’s other game, the first
in Group F.  
 Agger’s own goal was initially attributed to Simon Poulsen
by world governing body FIFA before it changed its decision on
reviewing television pictures. With five minutes left, Kuyt
scored from three yards when substitute Eljero Elia’s shot
bounced off the post.  
 Poulsen cleared  Robin van Persie ’s shot off the goal-line
with two minutes left.  
 Whistle  
 “The Dutch team are perhaps not the favorite, but they
are an outside bet for the World Cup,” Denmark coach  Morten Olsen  told reporters. “They have players like Robin van Persie,
 Rafael van der Vaart  and Wesley Sneijder, all wonderful players,
while Eljero Elia who came on today made an impact.”  
 During the game, Van Persie gestured to French referee
Stephane Lannoy that he couldn’t hear him whistle because of the
din of fans blowing horns in the stands.  
 In Bloemfontein, Honda received a cross from the right by
Daisuke Matsui at the far post and struck the ball past
goalkeeper Hamidou Souleymanou after 39 minutes to secure
Japan’s win.  
 “Our defense did well today, but we need to be more
aggressive in attack,” Japan coach  Takeshi Okada  said. “In the
next game against the Netherlands, we need to go one step
further.”  
 The country’s only previous World Cup victories came when
it was co-host with South Korea eight years ago. That was the
only time it has advanced beyond the group stage. Cameroon, a
quarterfinalist in 1990, had never previously lost its opening
game.  
 “We were very tense in the first half,” Cameroon coach
 Paul Le Guen  said. “We were not able to show what we really are
able to do. We have to win against Denmark. I regret that the
players could not play to the level they could. We were too
narrow during the first half.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net 
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        