-- New Zealand House Price Data May Signal Gradual Interest Rate Increases
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-06-14T23:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/new-zealand-house-price-data-may-signal-gradual-interest-rate-increases.html

          
          
             New Zealand  house prices  fell in May
for a second straight month as sales slumped, adding to signs
that interest-rate increases may be gradual this year.  
 Prices dropped 1.4 percent from April when they declined
0.4 percent, according to an index published by the Real Estate
Institute of New Zealand Inc.  House sales  retreated 17.2 percent
from a year earlier and the median time to sell a home rose to
43 days from 40 in April, the Auckland-based group said today in
an e-mailed statement.  
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor  Alan Bollard  on June
10 raised the official cash rate by a quarter point to 2.75
percent, the first increase in three years, and said further
moves will be gradual. Consumers are cautious and housing demand
is likely to be subdued, he said.  
 “The housing market is important in determining how
aggressive the Reserve Bank is in normalizing policy,” said
 Philip Borkin , an economist at Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd. in
Auckland. “Given the current sluggishness, we continue to
believe that process will be relatively gradual.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar bought 69.63 U.S. cents at 10:40 a.m.
in Wellington from 69.49 cents immediately before the report.  
 There is a 52 percent chance of a quarter-point increase at
the next review on July 29, from 76 percent yesterday, according
to a Credit Suisse index based on swaps trading.  
 Bollard will likely raise borrowing costs at the next three
reviews, according to all 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News on June 10.  
 Sales Slow  
 New Zealand house sales slowed in the lead up the May 20
budget amid expectations Finance Minister  Bill English  would
move to stop investors using losses on property to reduce
taxable income. While English announced changes to depreciation
rules, he didn’t alter the ability to use losses.  
 The number of properties sold in May was little changed at
5,206 from 5,207 in April, the institute said.  
 “Sales remain at very weak levels,” said  Jane Turner , an
economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. “The fundamentals for
the housing market remain fairly weak.”  
 Home loan approvals declined 26 percent in the three months
to June 4 from a year earlier, according to central bank figures.  
 Curbing demand, the average two-year home loan interest
rate was 7.8 percent in April from 7.34 percent in January, the
central bank said. New Zealand’s annual immigration growth
slowed for a third straight month in April, the government said
on May 21.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        