-- N.Y. Shutdown `Not Going to Happen,' Republican Senator Says
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-14T19:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/new-york-government-shutdown-not-going-to-happen-republican-senator-says.html

          
          
             New York  lawmakers will pass an
emergency spending bill needed to avoid a partial shutdown of
state government, the state Senate leader and the chamber’s
second-ranking Republican said.  
 “We’re going to pass the extender and government is going
to continue to operate,” Senate Democratic leader  John Sampson 
told reporters in Albany after meeting with Governor  David Paterson  and Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver , both of whom are
Democrats.  
 Agency heads and their 150,000 workers had been making
contingency plans if the measure failed today and left the state
without authority to pay all its bills. Employees were warned
that buildings might close and some of them wouldn’t be working
tomorrow if the appropriation bill didn’t pass by midnight,
according to agency memos.  
 New York, the third-most populous U.S. state, has been
operating on weekly spending bills as lawmakers have been unable
to agree on a comprehensive budget for the fiscal year that
began April 1. Leaders of the Assembly and Senate say they can’t
amend the emergency measures without shutting state agencies.  
 ‘Not Going to Happen’  
 “I don’t see state government shutting down,” Senator  Tom Libous , the second ranking Senate Republican, said in an
interview on radio station WGDJ in Albany. “It’s just not going
to happen.”  
 Libous, whose district includes Binghamton, about 170 miles
(274 kilometers) by car northwest of New York City, said “it’s
a shame” that news media assumed all Republican senators would
vote against this week’s spending bill, as they did last week.  
 He declined to promise Republican votes for this week’s
bill before he had time to review changes from the draft
Paterson submitted June 11. That proposal would cut spending for
human services and mental health programs by more than $300
million.  
 Libous said Republicans remain united in their intention to
vote against any spending bills that include new taxes,
borrowing or increased spending.  
 Austin Shafran , a spokesman for Senate Democratic Leader
 John Sampson , told reporters this week’s bill doesn’t include
new taxes, borrowing or increased spending. The Senate is
expected to vote this afternoon, he said.  
 State Senator  Pedro Espada , the Bronx Democrat whose
threats to oppose the bill ignited warnings of “chaos in the
streets” from Governor David Paterson, said June 10 that the
government of the third most-populous U.S. state would stay open
and he would support the measure.  
 Paterson won $775 million in annualized reductions, mostly
from the Medicaid program, and savings in last week’s bill. That
narrowed a projected $9.2 billion deficit in Paterson’s $135.2
billion fiscal 2011 budget proposal, presented in February, to
about $8.5 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        