-- Tardy States' Credit Ratings at Risk as Budget Deadlines Near
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-06-14T14:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/new-jersey-is-among-states-with-ratings-at-risk-as-budget-deadlines-near.html

          
          
             Eight U.S. states, including
California, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Illinois, risk lower
credit ratings because they lack completed budgets less than
three weeks before the start of their new fiscal years.  
 A ninth,  New York , has operated without one since its year
started April 1. All are gripped by political stalemates over
how to cope with a collapse in  tax revenue  that included a $67
billion decline in the 12 months ended June 30, 2009, according
to the Census Bureau. The Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of
Government called that the biggest on record.  
 Governors and lawmakers already  chopped billions  of dollars
from previous budgets in the deepest recession since the Great
Depression. Delays in new spending plans could cut off credit
and slow payments to schools, local governments and public
employees, Moody’s Investors Service said. Some states may need
emergency solutions like  California  used last year, when it paid
vendors with IOUs as a $26 billion budget gap went unresolved.  
 “If we’re seeing a lot of political infighting, it
indicates there may not be a budget plan, or somebody’s just not
tackling the problem,” said  Edith Behr , a Moody’s analyst in
New York. “That’s not a good thing from a credit perspective.”  
 Illinois , the fifth-most populous state, had its credit
rating lowered twice this month, on June 11 by Fitch Ratings to
A from A+ and by Moody’s on June 4 to A1 from Aa3.  
 “The state has not demonstrated the political willingness
to take action,” Fitch said.  
 Resistance to Plan  
 Legislators in May approved a provisional $25.9 billion
budget for Illinois that’s about $13 billion short. They’re
resisting a plan by Governor  Pat Quinn , a Democrat seeking re-
election in November, to balance it in part by borrowing $3.7
billion.  
 California, the lowest-rated state by Standard & Poor’s at
A-, was told by the credit evaluator on June 8 that its $69
billion of debt outstanding could be cut unless a standoff
between Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and the Legislature over
an $18.6 billion 2011 budget shortfall isn’t resolved.  
 “The state’s credit is more at risk from a stalemated
negotiation process with primarily political origins than from
other, more fundamental, economic and revenue factors,” S&P
said.  
 Others still working on budgets for the year that begins
July 1, the start of the fiscal period for 46 states, are
Louisiana,  Massachusetts , Delaware and North Carolina, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  
 Added Uncertainty  
 Seven of the nine may find $6 billion they’re counting on
from the federal government to cover costs of Medicaid benefits,
the U.S. health-insurance program for the poor, in jeopardy.
Supplemental U.S. funds expire in December and Congress hasn’t
decided on an extension.  
 Five of the states will also choose governors this
November: California, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Massachusetts and
New York.  
 “Political interference during the budget processes will
occur in more states and will cost the public more this year
than last,”  Tom Kozlik , vice president and municipal credit
analyst for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in
an e-mail.  
 States delaying budgets pay a price in the credit markets,
Bloomberg data show.  
 New Jersey compensates investors with higher returns on its
bonds than does identically rated Connecticut, which passed its
$19 billion fiscal 2011 budget on May 5.  
 More Yield  
 Ten-year  New Jersey  general-obligation debt paid 45 basis
points more yield than a generic AAA-rated general-obligation
bond on June 11,  Bloomberg data  show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Connecticut paid  16 basis points more last
week, according to the data.  
 New Jersey Democrats, who control the Legislature, are
grappling with Republican Governor  Chris Christie  over his
proposed $29.3 billion budget. He wants to balance it with $820
million in school-aid cuts and reductions in property-tax
rebates. An extension of an income-tax surcharge on millionaires
passed by the Legislature on May 20 was vetoed by the governor
minutes afterward.  
 Lawmakers now say they plan to adopt a budget in line with
Christie’s before the July 1 deadline.  
 “I don’t think anyone really has the fire for a shutdown
this year,” Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat in his
first term as head of the Senate, said in an interview earlier
this month.  
 Costly Insurance  
 Investors buying insurance against potential debt defaults
also penalize states with unresolved budgets.  
 Prices for credit default swaps, which are derivatives that
pay holders in the event of a bond default, are more costly for
states still working on budgets. Four of the five states with
the most expensive default insurance -- California, Illinois,
New York and New Jersey -- don’t have their 2011 spending plans
in place, Bloomberg data show.  
 The average cost for five years of default insurance for
the four states has risen by $60,600 per $10 million of bonds
over the past month, according to the data.  
 Prospects for budget resolutions among the states can depend
on which political parties control executive and legislative
branches.  
 In  North Carolina , where Democrats have both chambers of
the Legislature and the governor’s office, the Senate and
Assembly are likely to resolve differences over dividing state
aid among universities and local school districts soon, House
Speaker  Joe Hackney ’s spokesman Bill Holmes said.  
 Lowest Premium  
 The state’s 10-year  bond premium , at 6 basis points, is the
lowest of any without a budget and lower than Connecticut’s,
according to the Bloomberg data.  
 In Delaware, where Democrats control the governor’s office
and both legislative chambers, lawmakers plan to resolve their
budget issues after updated revenue reports June 17, the state’s
Legislative website says.  
 Things aren’t so clear in  Pennsylvania , the sixth-largest
state. Republicans, who control the Senate, are at odds with
Democratic Governor  Edward Rendell , who’s in his final year in
office, over his proposal to raise about $260 million through
new taxes on business, cigars and natural gas.  
 Jake Corman , Republican chairman of the Senate
Appropriations Committee, wants the governor to present a new
budget of less than $28 billion to replace the $29 billion plan
he proposed in February because revenue has fallen $1.2 billion
short of projections.  
 Possible Shutdown  
 In New York, the third-most populous U.S. state, Democrats’
32-30 majority in the state Senate is so narrow that passage of
additional one-week emergency spending bills is in doubt. Governor
David Paterson has ordered state agencies to make plans for a
possible shutdown while he and lawmakers debate how to close an
$8.5 billion gap in his $135.2 billion 2011 budget proposal.  
 New York and California, which Moody’s calls chronically
late with their budgets, have measures to allow for continuation
of most services if a deadline is missed.  
 “By California standards, we’re actually right on track,”
said  Jean Ross , who has monitored the state’s budget since 1995
as executive director of the non-profit  California Budget
Project  in Sacramento. “It’s the content of the budget, not the
timing of the budget that matters.”  
 After two years of spending cuts, state lawmakers will find
it harder this year to balance budgets, said  Scott Pattison ,
executive director of the Washington-based National Association
of State Budget Officers.  
 “All the easy solutions have been tried,” said Ross from
California, where Schwarzenegger’s budget proposal would
eliminate welfare and cut higher-education aid. “There are no
good answers. There aren’t even good bad answers.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        