-- New York State Prepares for Government Shutdown, Just in Case
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-14T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/new-york-state-readies-for-shutdown-as-legislators-weigh-spending-measure.html

          
          
             As  New York  lawmakers debate an
emergency spending bill to keep the government running for
another week, agency heads and their 150,000 workers are making
contingency plans if the measure fails, leaving the state
without authority to pay all its bills.  
 According to agency memos, employees were warned of the
possibility that buildings might be closed and some of them
wouldn’t be working tomorrow if the appropriation bill doesn’t
pass by midnight tonight. There are exceptions.  
 “The state has an obligation to provide essential services
to its residents, to protect their health, safety and welfare,”
 Richard Daines , the health department head, said in a memo.
Shutdown or not, some workers will stay on the job. State Police
Lieutenant Glenn Miner said troopers “directly providing
public-safety services will be ordered to continue to work.”  
 State Senator  Pedro Espada , the Bronx Democrat whose
threats to oppose the spending bill ignited warnings of “chaos
in the streets” from Governor  David Paterson , said June 10 that
the government will stay open and he will support the measure.  
 Even with Espada, the margin of approval is so narrow in
the upper chamber that Paterson ordered state agencies to make
plans for a possible shutdown. Democrats hold a 32 to 30
majority in the Senate, the minimum number needed to pass bills
if all Republicans vote no as they have in the past three weeks.  
 New York, the third-most populous U.S. state, has been
operating on weekly spending bills as lawmakers have been unable
to agree on a comprehensive budget for the fiscal year that
began April 1. Leaders of the Assembly and Senate say they can’t
amend the emergency measures without shutting state agencies.  
 Deficit Narrowed  
 Paterson won $775 million in annualized reductions, mostly
from the  Medicaid  program, and savings in last week’s bill. That
narrowed a projected $9.2 billion deficit in Paterson’s $135.2
billion fiscal 2011  budget  proposal, presented in February, to
about $8.5 billion.  
 In the bill lawmakers will debate today, Paterson proposes
an annual spending plan for  human services , such as welfare, and
 mental health , including residential facilities for the
disabled, that reduces expenses by $327 million, said  Robert Megna , the state’s budget director. That’s less than the
governor sought in January, Megna said, as it reflects
adjustments to satisfy some requests from legislators.  
 ‘Easy’ to Pass  
 The bill “will be easy” for lawmakers to approve, Megna
said. It includes $3 billion of appropriations for expenses such
as subsidies for the poor and summer youth programs “which we
think are very important to the Legislature,” he said. The bill
doesn’t cancel a 10 percent increase in welfare payments that
took effect on June 1, he said.  
 “We are not going to shut down government and risk the
safety and livelihood of millions of New Yorkers,” said  Austin Shafran , a spokesman for Senate Democrats, who are led by  John Sampson  of Brooklyn, in an e-mailed comment yesterday. “As we
continue to make progress on a final budget, we expect to pass
the emergency extender and meet taxpayers’ needs.”  
 Paterson told a gathering of reporters last night in Albany
that legislators’ comments that the spending bill will pass were
“encouraging,” though he declined to predict the outcome of
today’s vote. “One never really knows what’s going to happen in
the Senate,” he said.  
 The governor said future weekly spending bills will include
spending cuts that are even more unpopular with lawmakers, who
want to narrow the deficit by selling bonds. Paterson proposed
reducing aid to education by $1.4 billion in the budget he
offered at the start of the year.  
 ‘Last Resort’  
 He called borrowing “a last resort” this month, and said
last night it was an option “we have to seriously think about”
if the state doesn’t receive an additional $1 billion of federal
Medicaid money it has been counting on since February.  
 The state has appropriated funds and has cash on hand to
pay Medicaid and other health-care bills, its bonds, pensions
and tax refunds, Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said in a June 10
 statement.  State workers may not get paid on June 23 and jobless
benefits may be halted, along with payments to contractors and
others, should the spending bill fail today, he said.  
 The late budget is “due to the failure of Democratic
leadership,” which has led to “doing a budget piecemeal so we
don’t know how each provision in an extender relates to an
entire spending plan,” Senate Republican Leader  Dean Skelos 
said in a statement on June 10. He is from Long Island’s
Rockville Centre.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        