-- New York Lawmakers Pass Stopgap Bills, Avoid State Shutdown
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-15T17:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/new-york-avoids-government-shutdown-as-lawmakers-pass-weekly-stopgap-bills.html

          
          
             The  New York  Legislature passed
emergency spending bills for the 11th consecutive week, avoiding
a  state  government shutdown as lawmakers debate how to close a
budget gap exceeding $8 billion for the year that began April 1.  
 Agency heads and their 150,000 workers had been making
contingency plans if the measures failed and left the state
without authority to pay all its bills. Employees were warned
that buildings might close and some of them wouldn’t be working
today if the bills didn’t pass, according to agency memos.  
 “I think we’ll have to do it again next week,” Governor
 David Paterson  said today in an interview on radio station WCBS
in New York City. He has said he may include cuts to education
or his proposal for a new tax on sweetened beverages in future
weekly bills.  
 Before tackling  education  aid, the state’s largest expense
and one where Senate and Assembly leaders aren’t in agreement,
Paterson told reporters on a conference call he would submit
annual budgets for economic development, public safety and
transportation later today or tomorrow.  
 If lawmakers don’t pass the proposals this week, they will
be included in the weekly appropriations measures to be voted on
June 21, Paterson said. The budget bills would include spending
cuts or savings of about $100 million, according to Morgan Hook,
a spokesman for Paterson.  
 Dismissals Considered  
 The governor said he is considering dismissing state
workers, an action he previously set aside in favor of a
furlough plan that was blocked by a federal court. The number of
terminations needed to reduce labor costs by $250 million -- the
target stated in his budget -- will depend on how many workers
accept a new retirement program, Paterson said.  
 The state agreed in December not to cut jobs this year in
exchange for trade-union support for reduced pension benefits
for new hires, according to documents filed in the unions’
lawsuits to block furloughs.  
 The reduced allocations for human services and mental
health programs approved yesterday mean more than half the
state’s spending has been covered by annual appropriations,
trimming the deficit to $8.1 billion from $9.2 billion, Senate
Finance Committee Chairman  Carl Kruger , a Democrat from
Brooklyn, said under questioning by Republicans.  
 Using Majority  
 The remaining gap is large enough that Republican Senators
said Democrats are moving closer to using their majority in both
houses to avoiding some spending cuts by approving higher taxes
and more borrowing.  
 “What’s left in this piecemeal process? More taxes like
last year, more borrowing,” Senator  John DeFrancisco , a
Republican from Syracuse, said in yesterday’s debate.  
 Paterson said last week that appropriations approved in
weekly bills haven’t cut spending as much as he proposed early
this year in his $135.2 billion budget. Additional cuts in those
programs will be needed, he said.  
 The annual spending plan for human services such as
welfare, and mental health services such as residences for the
disabled, reduced outlays by $327 million, said  Robert Megna ,
the state budget director. Paterson’s budget in January called
for spending cuts and savings of $477 million in  human services 
and $134 million in  mental health.   
 Savings and Reductions  
 Paterson won $775 million in savings and annualized
reductions, mostly from the Medicaid program, in last week’s
emergency spending bill. Paterson’s budget in January called for
cuts and savings of $1.2 billion, not including the proposal for
a tax on sugary beverages,  according  to budget documents.  
 The measures approved yesterday would extend a 10 percent
increase in welfare payments to the poor that took effect June
1. In January, Paterson proposed delaying half the boost.  
 Revenue from bonds and other sources, such as allowing wine
sales in grocery stores or higher cigarette taxes, are needed to
avoid “pain and the destruction of human services in this state
that would be unprecedented,” Senator  Pedro Espada , a Democrat
from the Bronx, said last week. His threat to vote against
yesterday’s bills, which he later withdrew, led Paterson to push
agency heads to plan for a possible shutdown.  
 Democrats hold a 32 to 30 majority in the Senate, the
minimum number needed to pass bills if all Republicans vote no,
as they had in the past.  
 The bills passed 34 to 27 in the upper chamber, with 31
Democrats and three Republicans voting in favor. Democratic
Senator  Ruben Diaz  Sr., of the Bronx, voted against. The state
Assembly also passed the measures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        