-- Nude Venus Gives Birth to Floor Scrapers in Impressionism Show
-- Stephen West
-- 2010-06-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/nude-venus-gives-birth-to-floor-scrapers-in-impressionism-show.html

          
          
             A glistening 10-foot-tall painting
of “The Birth of Venus” greets visitors to the  “Birth of
Impressionism”  summer exhibition in San Francisco.  
 William-Adolphe Bouguereau (1825-1905), the painter of this
glacial nude, once dazzled Parisians with his technically
brilliant, emotionally empty canvases of old-time deities.
Artists like Bouguereau made life tough for the younger radicals
who became known as Impressionists.  
 This splendid show at the de Young Museum, drawn from the
 Musee d’Orsay  in Paris, is both a visual pleasure and a document
of their struggle for acceptance and acclaim.  
 By the time the “Venus” was exhibited in the official
Salon of 1879, things already were changing. The French had lost
a disastrous war with the Prussians at the beginning of the
decade, and the old order was losing its credibility. The “New
Painting” depicted modern people in everyday settings with a
looser, freer hand. Artists left their studios and moved into
the streets and countryside for subject matter.  
 The exhibition is anchored by several monumental portraits
of women who are every bit as dazzling as the “Venus” and a
lot more believable.  
 There’s Jules Breton’s stern “The Harvester,” barefoot in
long skirt, holding a bundle of wheat on her shoulder. There’s
Carolus-Duran’s elegant “Lady With a Glove,” a sad yet
beautiful young woman in a long black dress who turns her head
to face the viewer as she pulls off her glove by the little
finger. And there’s  Edouard Manet ’s seductive “Woman With
Fans,” a black-clad Victorian who reclines on a sofa with a
world-weary expression.  
 Boy Soldier  
 The most famous work may be Manet’s “The Fifer,” a full-
length portrait of a teenage boy in an army uniform of black
coat, bright red trousers and white sash against a neutral
background. Its flatness drove conservative art critics nuts.  
 Manet, represented by 11 works, is arguably the star of the
show. (There are 11 works by  Pierre-Auguste Renoir , 9 by  Claude Monet , 7 by  Camille Pissarro , 5 by  Paul Cezanne , 5 by  Edgar Degas .) Yet some of the most memorable images are by less-well-
known artists such as Gustave Caillebotte and Frederic Bazille.  
 Caillebotte’s “The Floor Scrapers” shows three shirtless
men on their hands and knees scraping varnish off the wooden
floor of an apartment as light from a far window fills the room.  
 Painted in a narrow range of browns and tans, it’s a
gorgeous study in contrasts: the curves of the men’s arms and
the lacy grillwork in the window against the straight lines of
the floorboards and paneling.  
 Family Portraits  
 The exhibition evokes the social world of Impressionist
artists, their studios and families. Many were friends and
collaborators. There are portraits of Renoir by Bazille, of
Bazille by Renoir, of Monet by Renoir, not to mention self-
portraits by Cezanne and Pissarro. The show is not to be missed.  
 “Birth of Impressionism” runs through Sept. 6 at the  M.H.
de Young Museum , Golden Gate Park, San Francisco. Information:
+1-415-750-3600. It opens at the Frist Center for the Visual
Arts in Nashville on Oct. 15. A second exhibition from the Musee
d’Orsay, of Post-Impressionism, opens Sept. 25 at the de Young.  
 ( Stephen West  is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this story:
 Stephen West  in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Birth of Venus"  
                       
                         
                           de Young Museum via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Birth of Venus" by William Bouguereau. The 1879 work is on view through Sept. 6 in ``Birth of Impressionism'' at the de Young Museum in San Francisco. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Birth of Venus" by William Bouguereau. The 1879 work is on view through Sept. 6 in ``Birth of Impressionism'' at the de Young Museum in San Francisco. Source: de Young Museum via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "The Floor Scrapers" by Gustave Caillebotte. The 1875 work is on view through Sept. 6 in ``Birth of Impressionism'' at the de Young Museum in San Francisco. Source: de Young Museum via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "The Swing"  
                       
                         
                           de Young Museum via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "The Swing" by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. The work is on view through Sept. 6 in ``Birth of Impressionism'' at the de Young Museum in San Francisco. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "The Swing" by Pierre-Auguste Renoir. The work is on view through Sept. 6 in ``Birth of Impressionism'' at the de Young Museum in San Francisco. Source: de Young Museum via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "The Fifer"  
                       
                         
                           de Young Museum via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "The Fifer" by Edouard Manet. The work is on view through Sept. 6 in ``Birth of Impressionism'' at the de Young Museum in San Francisco. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "The Fifer" by Edouard Manet. The work is on view through Sept. 6 in ``Birth of Impressionism'' at the de Young Museum in San Francisco. Source: de Young Museum via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "The Gare Saint-Lazare" by Claude Monet. The 1877 work is on view through Sept. 6 in ``Birth of Impressionism'' at the de Young Museum in San Francisco. Source: de Young Museum via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
