-- Oat Futures Surge by Exchange Limit as Rain May Reduce Harvests in Canada
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-06-14T19:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/oat-futures-surge-by-exchange-limit-as-rain-may-reduce-harvests-in-canada.html

          
          
             (Corrects headline to show oat prices rose.)  
 Oat futures rose the most allowed on
the Chicago Board of Trade, touching the highest price since
February, on speculation that unusually wet weather is reducing
yield prospects in Canada, the world’s second-largest grower.  
 Excessive rainfall has delayed seeding of spring crops
including oats, wheat and barley, the Canadian Wheat Board said
last week. Some fields planted before the rain arrived may be
hurt by too much moisture, said Shawn Hackett, the president of
Hackett Financial Advisors Inc.  
 “The heavy rains up in Canada are wreaking havoc,”
Hackett said from Boynton Beach, Florida. “They’re going to
have less planted acreage than expected. Heavy rainfall on what
has been planted means lower yields. With a solid demand base,
expected carryout and stocks-to-use could drop to low levels.”  
 Oat futures for July delivery rose by the CBOT’s 20-cent
limit, or 8.8 percent, to $2.47 a bushel, the highest price
since Feb. 17. Prices have rallied 27 percent during a five-
session rally since June 7. Oats are used mainly for feeding of
livestock, including horses, and in some food production.  
 The price also may be rising as investors buy contracts to
close bets that prices would fall, Hackett said. Short positions
by hedge funds and other large speculators and index funds
outnumbered long positions, or bets prices would rise, by 1,795
contracts as of June 8, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
said in a report on June 11.  
 “When you have all the large specs on the short side and
get caught short at the wrong time, you get violent short-
covering rallies,” Hackett said. “Beyond being a legitimate
reason, we’ve had an unwinding of short-fund positions.”  
 Russia is the world’s largest oat producer, according to
U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        