-- Obama's Israel Policy Showing No Difference With Clinton-Bush
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-14T21:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/obama-s-israel-policy-showing-no-difference-as-clinton-converged-with-bush.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  clashed so
often and so publicly with Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  during the first 16 months of his tenure that one
Israeli newspaper reported Netanyahu believed Obama wanted a
confrontation to improve U.S. ties to the Arab world.  
 Then on May 31 came a moment that former U.S. Ambassador
 Martin Indyk  says showed the real nature of Obama’s policy
toward Israel: the deadly raid on an aid flotilla bound for Gaza
that unleashed a torrent of international criticism and a move
in the United Nations to censure the Jewish state.  
 Obama responded by siding with Israel, shielding it from
direct condemnation by the UN Security Council. In doing so,
analysts including Indyk said, Obama showed he embraces the core
policy of predecessors  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush : The U.S.
will give Israel unwavering diplomatic and military support even
as tensions test their relationship.  
 “At the end of the day, what every president and prime
minister have come around to realizing is a fundamental truth:
both countries need each other and they have to find ways of
working together,” said Indyk, who served as U.S. ambassador to
Israel for Clinton and during Bush’s first six months and is now
a senior fellow at Washington’s Brookings Institution.  
 In the last few months, the U.S. and Israel have butted
heads over settlements, their leaders haven’t appeared publicly
together, and Israel’s flotilla raid frayed U.S. ties to Turkey,
an important ally.  
 Talks Delayed  
 An especially strained moment came in March, when Israel
announced it would build 1,600 homes in East Jerusalem, an area
claimed by Palestinians, during a visit by Vice President  Joe Biden . The move delayed indirect Israeli-Palestinian peace talks
that the U.S. has brokered and drew a reprimand from Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton .  
 Shortly afterward, Netanyahu met with Obama at the White
House. They made no public appearance together, as is customary
when a foreign leader visits.  
 Even earlier, Obama had put Israel and its supporters on
edge when he went to Cairo in June 2009 to call for a “new
beginning” between the U.S. and the Muslim world.  
 It was the Cairo speech that prompted Netanyahu’s suspicion
Obama was seeking a clash with Israel to bolster Arab ties,
Haaretz reported on June 9, 2009, citing unidentified confidants
of the prime minister.  
 The Obama administration, unlike its predecessors, “made a
very public display on the settlements,” Israel’s ambassador to
the U.S.,  Michael Oren , said in an interview. Because Netanyahu
leads a “center-right government,” he said, “the pushback was
greater than it had been maybe under a leftist government.”  
 ‘Hasn’t Changed’  
 Still, the relationship “hasn’t changed that much,” Oren
said.  
 “We have an extremely close relationship with Israel,”
said White House spokesman  Tommy Vietor . “Israel’s a friend,
sometimes friends disagree.”  
 Palestinians are disappointed by what they see as Obama’s
shift toward Israel, said  Mkhaimar Abusada , a political
scientist at Al-Azhar University in Gaza City, in a telephone
interview.  
 “The high hopes we had for the Obama administration have
evaporated,” Abusada said. “He seems to have collided with the
other institutions in American politics and cannot apply the
pressure on Israel that is needed to stop settlements and push
the peace process forward.”  
 The strategic alliance has survived its challenges in large
part because of mutual need, said  Ziad Asali , president of the
Washington-based  American Task Force on Palestine , which
according to its website works to promote a negotiated peace
settlement giving Palestinians their own state.  
 ‘Relationship is Sound’  
 “The warmth and friendship between the president of the
U.S. and the prime minister is not there anymore, but the
relationship is sound and solid,” Asali said. “The U.S. and
Israel have too many things in common and too long a history of
strategic relations to be seriously impacted by political
differences.”  
 The Obama administration must maintain strong ties to
Israel to move forward on Israeli-Palestinian peace talks, which
are important for improving U.S. ties to the Muslim world, said
Asali and  David Makovsky , a senior fellow at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy. The allies also are in sync
facing the threat of a nuclear Iran.  
 While tensions are a natural part of the relationship, the
two nations always settle into the “abiding reality” that they
must work together, Indyk said.  
 Spoke Three Times  
 After the flotilla raid and the deaths of nine activists
aboard, the U.S. followed up its protection of Israel from
denunciation by name at the UN by working to put together an
inquiry into the event that will both satisfy world opinion and
buffer Israel, Makovsky said. Obama and Netanyahu spoke three
times in one day during the crisis, he said.  
 It wasn’t the first time the Obama administration had
followed such a course.  
 In November, it opposed a UN report that accused both
Israel and Hamas of war crimes during a three-week conflict in
Gaza that ended in January 2009. Israel, the U.S. and the
European Union consider Hamas a terrorist organization.  
 In October, the U.S. withdrew from joint military exercises
with Turkey when it barred Israel from participating. And the
U.S. continues to assist Israel with military support and
missile defense,  Daniel Benjamin , State Department coordinator
for counterterrorism, told a Senate committee on June 8.  
 The U.S. has helped Israel with David’s Sling, a system
meant to counter medium-range rockets that is scheduled to be
operational in 2012 or 2013. And in May, the administration
announced Obama would seek $205 million for a medium-range
missile defense system for Israel called Iron Dome.  
 ‘Mitigate These Threats’  
 “Our efforts will help ensure that Israel maintains the
capability to defend against and mitigate these threats,”
Benjamin said.  
 The Obama policy bears the hallmarks of the approach that
both Clinton and Bush took.  
 Clinton clashed with Netanyahu over the Israeli leader’s
settlement expansion program that Clinton said was delaying the
Middle East peace process. Still, he poured political capital
into those talks, oversaw the signing of a Jordan-Israeli peace
treaty and maintained steady military support for Israel. In
1996, he offered $100 million for Israel’s anti-terror
activities and another $200 million for the Arrow anti-missile
deployment system.  
 Bush sparred with then-Prime Minister  Ariel Sharon  over
Sharon’s October 2001 comment that the U.S. was appeasing
Palestinians to win Arab support for its war on terror, which
Bush called “unacceptable.” Later that month, Israel rejected
a U.S. call to withdraw immediately from Palestinian-controlled
areas in the West Bank.  
 Loan Guarantees  
 Still, Bush continued military support and gave Israel $9
billion in conditional loan guarantees in 2003 after a
Palestinian uprising and an economic slump in Israel.  
 And Bush didn’t repeat Clinton’s criticism of settlement
activity, telling Sharon in an April 2004 letter that any final
Israeli-Palestinian settlement must take into account changed
“realities on the ground, including already existing major
Israeli population centers.”  
 Even earlier, under President Ronald Reagan, the U.S.-
Israeli relationship had rough patches. In 1981, the U.S. voted
with other members of the UN Security Council to condemn
Israel’s bombing of Iraq’s Osirik nuclear reactor. A year later,
Reagan supported Israel’s invasion of Lebanon.  
 Remaining Israel’s defender serves several U.S. strategic
goals, Makovsky said.  
 “If the U.S. doesn’t have a close relationship with
Israel, it will be harder, not easier, to get it to withdraw
from certain territories in the  West Bank  because an Israel that
is not secure will not take risks for peace,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       US President Barack  
                       
                         
                           Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         US President Barack disembarks from Marine One helicopter on the South Lawn at the White House. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     US President Barack disembarks from Marine One helicopter on the South Lawn at the White House. Photographer:  Jewel Samad/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
