-- Obama Vows to Restore Gulf Environment, Economy After Spill
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-06-15T13:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/obama-says-preliminary-talks-started-with-bp-on-claims-in-gulf-oil-spill.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  promised
residents and businesses along the Gulf of Mexico he’ll make
sure  BP Plc  pays for the losses from the biggest oil spill in
U.S. history and that the region will be restored.  
 White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said today that
the government has “the legal authority” to make BP place the
money needed for recovery and relief from the oil spill into an
independently administered fund.  
 The president, making his fourth visit to the gulf coast
since the April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig triggered the spill, said the government and BP are
in “preliminary” talks about setting up a mechanism to pay
claims of damage from the spill “justly, fairly, promptly.”  
 “It’s going to take time for things to return to normal,”
Obama said after getting a briefing from federal and local
officials and touring a staging facility in Theodore, Alabama.
“But I promise you this: things are going to return to
normal.”  
 The president will end his two-day gulf coast trip later
today and be back in Washington to make a televised Oval Office
speech about the oil spill at 8 p.m. Washington time.  
 The spill has closed as much as 37 percent of the Gulf of
Mexico to fishing, cut offshore drilling in the nation by half
and polluted 140 miles (225 kilometers) of shoreline from
Louisiana to Florida.  
 ‘Constructive Conversation’  
 Obama said administration officials have had a
“constructive conversation” with representatives from BP about
setting up a system to deal with damage claims. He said he hopes
that, by the time he meets with BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg 
and other company officials in Washington tomorrow, “we can
start actually seeing a structure that would be in place.”  
 On NBC’s “Today” show this morning, Gibbs said it’s
important to set up an independent claims operation.  
 “Everybody agrees we need to get BP out of the claims
process,” he said.  
 While the administration hasn’t set a specific amount, U.S.
Senate Democrats, in a letter to BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , called on the company to create a $20 billion fund to
pay for cleanup and economic damages.  
 Gibbs, on CBS’s “The Early show,” this morning said the
White House can legally compel BP on claims.  
 “The president possesses the legal authority and will use
it to make this claims process independent, to take it away from
BP, and to ensure that those who have been harmed economically
have their claims processed quickly, efficiently, transparently,
and that they’re made whole again for the disaster caused by
BP,” Gibbs said.  
 Legal Authority  
 “The president will either legally compel them or come to
an agreement with BP to get out of the claims process [and] give
that to an independent entity,” Gibbs said.  
 Gibbs, on CNN this morning, defended Obama’s decision not
to meet earlier with BP executives to discuss the spill.  
 “People at all levels of this government and all levels of
this response have been in touch with BP” since the beginning,
he said.  
 Commercial fishing along the gulf coast from Texas to
Florida contributes $1 billion to the gross domestic product and
tourism and recreation another $13 billion, according to the
 National Ocean Economics Program .  
 Seafood Safety  
 Obama also said the government will undertake a multi-
agency effort to ensure the safety of seafood taken from the
gulf.  
 “Seafood from the gulf today is safe to eat,” Obama said.
“But we need to make sure it stays that way.”  
 Obama also is preparing to fill the vacancy left when
 Elizabeth Birnbaum , director of the Minerals Management Service,
became the first administration official to step down in
connection with the oil spill. Obama may announce his choice to
oversee federal management of offshore oil and gas drilling in
his speech tonight, an administration official said on condition
of anonymity.  
 The spill is posing a political threat to Obama as he comes
under criticism from Republicans and some Democrats over the
administration’s reaction. The president is seeking to avoid
comparisons to the bungled response to Hurricane Katrina in 2005
under former President  George W. Bush . He said today that some
of the damage from that disaster was still visible in the area.  
 “But in some ways what we’re dealing with here is unique
because it’s not simply one catastrophic event,” Obama said.
“It’s an ongoing assault whose movements are constantly
changing.”  
 Elections  
 Republicans will use the oil spill in the November midterm
congressional election and likely the 2012 presidential race
“just like the Democrats used Katrina and Bush,” said  Stuart Rothenberg , publisher of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political
Report. “They’re going to say that he didn’t show great
strength of leadership and that he was too passive and too slow
to react.”  
 Still, Rothenberg said it’s too soon to tell whether it
could affect Obama’s chances if he seeks re-election.  
 In tonight’s speech, Obama will detail how the
administration will help the gulf coast recover and make sure
such a disaster “never happens again,” Gibbs said on CNN.  
 “What we outline tonight will be the beginning of the
process to restore the gulf,” he said.  
 Critics  
 Kevin Madden , who was spokesman for Republican  Mitt Romney ’s 2008 presidential campaign, said the president has
“fumbled away” the opportunity to show he’s in charge in the
past. He may try to regain the initiative in tonight’s speech.  
 “I expect the president will pivot slightly from trying to
project control to instead trying to project blame and use this
crisis as a vehicle to win favor for more energy regulation,”
Madden said.  
 Even Democrats have been among Obama’s critics.  
 At a June 10  Senate Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee  hearing Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida
Democrat, said “nobody’s in charge” of the spill clean-up.  
 “How many more examples of this do we have to see until
the command-and-control structure is changed,” Nelson said.  
 Nelson told reporters yesterday in Florida that the
administration is responding.  
 “The White House has been listening to their critics,
including this senator, and I think they are making changes,”
Nelson said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Gulfport, Mississippi at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     US President Barack Obama chats with workers attending an oil clean-up training class in Theodore, Alabama. Photgrapher: Andel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- John Nevius, an attorney at Anderson Kill & Olick PC, talks about calls from U.S. lawmakers for BP Plc to set up an escrow account for damage claims related to its oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico and to suspend its dividend.      
     He talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." Bloomberg's James Polson also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
