-- Obama Will Probably Name Offshore-Oil Chief After Resignation of Birnbaum
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-06-14T18:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/obama-will-probably-name-offshore-oil-chief-after-resignation-of-birnbaum.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  likely will
name a new chief to oversee federal management of offshore oil
and gas exploration tomorrow after returning from a two-day
visit to the region hit by the  BP Plc  oil spill, an
administration official said.  
 Obama arrived this morning in Mississippi for a briefing
and meetings with gulf coast residents as he is pushing BP to
boost work on containing the oil gushing from a damaged well in
the Gulf of Mexico and to set up a multibillion-dollar escrow
account to pay for damage caused by the spill.  
 “We are gathering up facts, stories right now so that we
have an absolute clear understanding about how we can best
present to BP the need to make sure that individuals and
businesses are dealt with in a fair manner and prompt manner,”
Obama said after getting a briefing from federal and local
officials in Gulfport, Mississippi.  
 Obama is set to deliver a televised address to the nation
at 8 p.m. Washington time tomorrow, a day before he meets with
BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  and other company officials in
Washington. Republicans and some Democrats have been critical of
Obama’s response to the spill, the biggest such environmental
disaster in U.S. history.  
 BP’s Plan  
 BP has submitted a new plan to the government that would
contain more of the spill faster,  Bill Burton , deputy White
House press secretary, told reporters traveling with the
president. Under the plan, more than 50,000 barrels of oil could
be contained per day by the end of June, two weeks earlier than
originally proposed, Burton said.  
 Burton also said the administration expects that an
agreement will be reached with the company on the escrow
account. The amount will be in the  “billions,”  he said, and
will be the subject of the discussion between BP executives and
administration officials at the June 16 meeting.  
 “We feel confident that this is going to be able to move
forward,” Burton said.  
 U.S. Senate Democrats, in a letter today to BP Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , called on the company create a
$20 billion fund to pay for cleanup and economic damages.  
 Demonstration  
 Creating such an account would be “a useful first step for
demonstrating that BP intends to meet its commitments,” the
letter said. They requested a response by June 18. Hayward is
scheduled to appear at a June 17 hearing of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee.  
 While reviewing efforts to deal with the spill’s damage,
Obama also is preparing to fill the vacancy left when  Elizabeth Birnbaum , director of the Minerals Management Service, became
the first administration official to step down in connection
with the oil spill.  
 The president has criticized the agency, part of the
Interior Department, for having a “cozy” relationship with the
industry it regulates and being “plagued by corruption for
years.”  
 The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, declined
to say who Obama has been considering for the job.  
 Overhauled Regulation  
 Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar , in a May 19 order, revamped
the old Minerals and Management Services, splitting it into
three divisions. The new units are the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
and the Office of Natural Resources Revenue.  
 Obama is making his fourth visit to the Gulf since the
disaster began on April 20 and it is his first to see the impact
on Mississippi, Alabama and Florida.  
 Among the issues being discussed in his meetings are
improving communications among federal and state agencies
working on the cleanup and attempts to “minimize the short-term
impact” of the spreading oil slick, Obama said.  
 Democratic Senator  Bill Nelson  of Florida told reporters in
Pensacola today Obama needs to set up a “military-type chain of
command structure” for the spill response.  
 “The White House has been listening to their critics,
including this senator, and I think they are making changes,”
Nelson said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Gulfport, Mississippi at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        