-- Crude Oil Rises Above $75 After Increase in European Industrial Production
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-06-14T21:00:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/oil-climbs-above-75-after-european-industrial-output-gains-dollar-drops.html

          
          
             Crude oil rose above $75 a barrel on
speculation economic growth will accelerate as European
industrial production climbed more than forecast in April.  
 Oil increased 1.8 percent after economic output in the 16
nations using the euro had the biggest year-on-year gain since
data reporting started in 1991. The dollar dropped to its lowest
level in more than a week against the European currency,
strengthening the investment appeal of commodities.  
 “The industrial numbers out of Europe were somewhat better
than expected, which is bolstering confidence about the region’s
economy,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at
PFGBest in Chicago. “The strength of the euro is a major factor
pushing most commodities higher today.”  
 Crude oil for July delivery rose $1.34 to settle at $75.12
a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices have
increased in four of the past five sessions. Futures are up 4.3
percent from a year ago.  
 European industrial output advanced 0.8 percent in April
from March, according to the EU’s statistics office in
Luxembourg. Economists projected a gain of 0.5 percent,
according to the median of 33 responses in a Bloomberg News
survey. Production increased 9.5 percent from a year earlier.  
 Oil retreated from the day’s high after Moody’s Investors
Service said it downgraded Greece’s government bond ratings by
four levels to Ba1 from A3. Oil and the euro tumbled in May on
concern that Greece’s debt crisis would spread to other nations
using the common currency.  
 The dollar declined against the euro for the fourth time in
five days. The single currency gained 1.1 percent to $1.2247 as
of 3:17 p.m. in New York. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
increased 0.5 percent to 1,097.31.  
 ‘The Usual Suspects’  
 “The market is moving on the usual suspects,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodity research at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “It’s a sentiment-driven rally based on a weaker
dollar, stronger equities, and bargain-hunting by investors.”  
 Production at U.S. factories, mines and utilities probably
increased in May for the 10th time in 11 months, according to
the median estimate from 63 economists polled by Bloomberg News
before Federal Reserve figures scheduled for June 16.  
 “Oil is up because there’s more optimism about the
economy,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “There’s a
reduced likelihood that we’ll see a double-dip recession.”  
 Oil fell 2.3 percent on June 11 after the Commerce
Department said U.S. retail sales decreased 1.2 percent in May,
the biggest drop since September.  
 Concern that the U.S. economic rebound will weaken has led
hedge funds to cut their bets on higher oil-futures prices to a
10-month low.  
 Speculator Wagers  
 Speculative  net-long positions , or wagers that prices will
increase, in crude futures declined 30 percent to 17,457
contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange in the week ended
June 8, the lowest level since July, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders Report
released on June 11.  
 Bets on gains have dropped 87 percent since reaching a
record 135,669 in January.  
 BP Plc sent a revised oil-capture plan for its leaking Gulf
of Mexico well to the Obama administration as the government
demanded an escrow account for damage claims related to the
biggest petroleum spill in the nation’s history.  
 BP said 53,000 barrels of oil a day can be captured by the
end of June, two weeks sooner than previously proposed,
according to a copy of the plan provided by the administration.
BP also proposed having the capacity to get as much as 80,000
barrels by mid-July. The company has been collecting about
15,000 barrels a day from the leak for the past week.  
 Production Concern  
 “There’s growing concern in the market about what the oil
spill will mean for oil production as we move ahead,” Flynn
said. “This may be the end of deep- and shallow-water drilling
as we know it.”  
 President  Barack Obama  declared a six-month moratorium on
deep-water drilling last month as a presidential panel probes
the explosion and sinking of the BP-leased Deepwater Horizon
rig, which killed 11 workers and resulted in the spill.  
 “We’re going to see a slight down-dip in production as the
year progresses,” Lynch said. “It will be bad for the U.S.
economy because we will have to import more oil.”  
 Brent crude oil for July settlement increased 85 cents, or
1.1 percent, to $75.20 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  
 Oil volume on the Nymex was 535,087 contracts as of 3:19
p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 828,323 contracts on June 11,
6.2 percent greater than the average of the past three months.
Open interest was 1.34 million contracts.  
 The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Shenk  in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        