-- Tom Watson Returns to Pebble Beach, Site of Chip That Beat Jack Nicklaus
-- Michael Buteau
-- 2010-06-14T20:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/tom-watson-returns-to-pebble-beach-site-of-chip-that-beat-jack-nicklaus.html

          
          
             Jack Nicklaus  remembers exactly
where he was when  Tom Watson  beat him 28 years ago.  
 “I was being interviewed by Jack Whitaker on the 18th
green,” Nicklaus said of the 1982  U.S. Open . “He was
congratulating me on winning my fifth Open and saying how great
it was to have been covering golf in your time.”  
 Nicklaus didn’t win the Open that year. Watson did, thanks
to a 16-foot chip-in out of the heavy rough on the 17th hole at
 Pebble Beach Golf Links , which will host the tournament this
week for the first time in a decade.  
 “All of a sudden -- he had just finished saying ‘your
time’ and then,” Nicklaus recalled, pausing to imitate the
crowd’s noise. “I looked behind me on the monitor and there’s
Watson running around the green.”  
 The  video  of a smiling, gap-toothed Watson skipping with
his club raised in the air has become one of golf’s most iconic
images. Watson went on to birdie the final hole to defeat
Nicklaus by two strokes on a course that he said has “always
taken a toll” on him.  
 Following a runner-up finish to  Stewart Cink  in last year’s
British Open, the 60-year-old Watson said he’s returning to
Pebble Beach this week with thoughts of recapturing the form
that won him his only U.S. Open title.  
 “If I’m playing well, I think I will have some success,”
Watson said in a telephone interview. “And I put ‘if’ in front
of that because I’m playing half-decently right now and it’s
still too early to say how I will feel when I tee it up on
Thursday.”  
 Turnberry Performance  
 In a sport that has been dominated by  Tiger Woods’s  off-
course personal issues and on-course struggles, Watson has
remained a counterpoint over the past year. Proving that his
play at Scotland’s Turnberry 11 months ago was not a fluke,
Watson opened the  Masters Tournament  in April with a 5-under-par
67 and finished 18th.  
 If Watson can find a way to sink enough putts this week,
seeing his name near the top of the leaderboard would not be
surprising, said U.S. PGA Tour player  Brandt Snedeker , a long-
time Watson admirer who often plays practice rounds alongside
his boyhood idol.  
 “When he’s putting well, he contends,” Snedeker said in
an interview on the Pebble Beach practice range. “That’s why he
did so well at the British Open. The guy just seems to be
getting better with age.”  
 Senior Title  
 On the over-50 Champions Tour this year, Watson won the
season-opening event in Hawaii for his 13th senior title to go
along with 39 career PGA Tour victories.  
 While many older players don’t hit their tee shots far
enough to contend with the longer course layouts found on the
PGA Tour, Pebble Beach’s dry fairways this week could be
beneficial for Watson.  
 “It’s playing very firm and fast, so length is not going
to be as much of an issue,” Snedeker said. “He hits a very
flat, boring kind of drive that will run a long way. And with
his course knowledge and the way he still strikes the golf ball
to this day, he can still contend.”  
 Still, even players of Watson’s caliber often find Pebble
Beach a difficult course to have success on. The Missouri native
says he has only mastered the 91-year-old layout one time -- the
first time he played it as a pro. He shot 71 that day, with 17
pars and a birdie on the final hole.  
 “The golf course has always taken its toll on me,” he
said. “No matter how well I’ve played, I’ve always made some
mistakes out there.”  
 As he prepares to begin his latest round at the course on
June 17, that very first outing remains clear.  
 “For me, it’s a question of ‘can I do that?’ Can I have
another experience like my very first round there,” he said.
“Can I do that consistently over four rounds? That’s what I’m
looking for.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Pebble Beach, California,
at   mbuteau@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        