-- Honda Rises After Most Striking Employees at China Supplier Return to Work
-- Liza Lin
-- 2010-06-14T08:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/honda-rises-after-most-striking-employees-at-china-supplier-return-to-work.html

          
          
             Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s second-
largest automaker, rose in Tokyo trading after most workers at a
parts factory in China agreed to end a strike.  
 Honda gained 4 percent, the most since June 3, to close at
2,711 yen. The majority of workers at  Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. 
in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, agreed to an offer from the
plant’s management, said  Hirotoshi Sato , a spokesman for Honda
Lock in Miyazaki, Japan.  
 The walkout followed two others at Honda suppliers that
crippled the company’s car production in China and forced the
automaker to raise wages for some workers. Disruptions at
overseas manufacturers including Honda and Taiwan’s  Foxconn
Technology Group  reflect pressure for higher pay in China, where
a shrinking pool of low-cost labor may boost  inflation .  
 “Honda’s current situation is just the tip of the
iceberg,” said  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at Cosmo
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Costs among manufacturers operating
in China will rise, just like they did in Japan and other
developed countries.”  
 Honda Lock’s Sato declined to give details about the
company’s offer to workers or how many accepted it.  
 Liu Shengqi, one of the strike leaders, said workers were
offered a 200 yuan ($29) monthly raise. Dayshift workers were
offered an additional 3 yuan per day and night workers 14 yuan
per shift, he said by phone today.  
 Partially Halted  
 Employees , who walked out June 9, had demanded a 72 percent
raise to 1,600 yuan a month and higher overtime wages, according
to the company. About 1,200 of the 1,400 workers at the site
were striking as of June 10, Honda Lock said at the time.  
 Operations at the plant remain partially halted as some
workers have rejected the offer, and the company is considering
shipping components from Japan if it can’t deliver what Honda
needs for its car assembly plants, Sato said.  
 Unlike the two previous strikes, the Honda Lock shutdown
hasn’t disrupted Honda’s car production, as the company has a
sufficient stock of parts.  
 “Over the short term, there is very limited impact on
Honda’s sales volume as they have inventories,” said Yankun Hou,
an analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. Still,
automakers in China will have to get accustomed to paying higher
wages, he said.  
 The parts plant in Zhongshan is a joint venture between
Honda Lock, which is wholly owned by Honda Motor, and the
Xiaolan township government. The factory supplies key systems,
door handles and sensors for  Honda’s Chinese car production .  
 Replacement Workers  
 Honda Lock also hired replacement workers to restore local
operations, and some striking employees lost their jobs, the New
York Times reported today.  
 Honda Lock’s Sato said he didn’t know anything about
workers being hired or fired.  
 The Times said replacement workers and returning workers
were receiving an 11 percent pay increase to $152 a month and a
33 percent raise to $59 in their allowance for food and housing,
without saying who provided the information.  
 Liu, the strike leader, said he had seen cars at the
protest site with signs saying the company is hiring new workers.  
 Workers attending a protest at the plant on Saturday said
they were inspired to take action after hearing that Honda
raised salaries for striking workers at a parts plant in Foshan,
Guangdong, last month.  
 Honda said May 31 it agreed to increase pay by 24 percent
at the Foshan component factory to end a walkout that shut
production at all four of its Chinese car-assembly plants, the
first time labor issues forced Honda to halt local output.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yuki Hagiwara  in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An unidentified manager from the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory tries to persuade workers to go back to the factory in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, China. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Yasheng Huang, professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Sloan School of Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about rising wages for factory workers in China.
     Taiwan's Foxconn Group said on June 6 it agreed to more than double wages at its Shenzhen factories following a spate of suicides. Honda Motor Co. halted work at two car-assembly factories in Guangzhou as workers at a plant partly owned by affiliate Yutaka Giken Co. walked out demanding higher pay. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
