-- Honda Workers Suspend Strike as Union Negotiates Wage Increase by June 18
-- Takako Iwatani
-- 2010-06-15T07:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/honda-workers-in-china-end-strike-for-three-days-as-union-negotiates-wages.html

          
          
             Workers at a Honda Motor Co. parts
factory in southern China suspended a strike as management and
union leaders set a June 18 deadline to reach a wage agreement
and end the Japanese automaker’s third labor dispute in a month.  
 Employees of  Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co.  in Zhongshan, 
Guangdong province, agreed yesterday to return to work through 
June 17 as talks between the two sides continue, said Liu 
Shengqi, a former protest leader. The company “will listen 
to workers’ demands again and give an answer” on June 18, 
said  Hirotoshi Sato , a spokesman for Honda Lock in Miyazaki, 
Japan.  
 The stoppage follows at least two others at Honda’s Chinese
suppliers in the past month that crippled the automaker’s car
production and forced it to raise wages. Disruptions at foreign
manufacturers including Honda and Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology
Group reflect pressure for higher pay in China, where a
shrinking pool of low-cost labor may boost  inflation .  
 “There is a tide of higher wages, and anyone, any company
getting in the way, will get knocked over,” said  Edwin Merner ,
who oversees $3 billion as president of Atlantis Investment
Research Corp. in Tokyo. Rising prices in China for housing and
food “will mean continuing pressure on wages,” he said.  
 Honda  rose  0.2 percent to 2,717 yen in Tokyo, while the
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 0.08 percent.  
 ‘Dissatisfied Employees’  
 The Tokyo-based carmaker wholly owns Honda Lock, which
operates the Zhongshan factory through a joint venture with the
local township government. The plant supplies key systems, door
handles and sensors for  Honda’s Chinese car production .  
 Honda Lock’s Sato said the company doesn’t disclose what
the company has offered or what workers are demanding.  
 Liu, the former protest organizer, and Zhang Jun, a worker
at the plant, said Honda Lock has proposed a 200 yuan monthly
pay increase. Dayshift workers were offered an additional 3 yuan
per day and night workers 14 yuan per shift, Liu said.  
 Employees , who began striking on June 9, have demanded a 72
percent raise to 1,600 yuan ($234) a month and higher overtime
wages, Honda said on June 10. The factory employs about 1,400
people.  
 About 90 percent of employees are unhappy with the 200 yuan
offer, said Zhang, the plant worker. If a deal isn’t reached
later this week, they will go back on strike, Liu said.  
 “There are still some dissatisfied employees,” said
Takayuki Fujii, a Beijing-based spokesman for Honda Motor.  
 Honda Car Production  
 It’s too soon to say whether the disruptions at the plant
may affect Honda’s car assembly in China, Fujii said. So far,
the carmaker has had a sufficient stock of parts to keep
factories running.  
 “Over the short term, there is very limited impact on
Honda’s sales volume as they have inventories,” said Yankun Hou,
an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong. Still,
automakers in  China  will have to get used to paying higher wages,
he said.  
 Honda’s two car plants in Guangzhou, Guangdong, are shut
today and tomorrow for a public holiday, said  Tomoko Uchida , a
spokeswoman for the company in Tokyo.  
 Liu, the former strike leader, said he isn’t involved in
talks anymore. A new negotiator,  Zeng Qinghong , a National
People’s Congress representative and part of Guangzhou Honda
Automobile Co.’s management, arrived yesterday, he said.  
 ‘Silent Protest’  
 Liu said he quit his job to take responsibility for helping
organize the strike. His wife and brother still work at the
plant, he said.  
 About 400 employees held a “silent protest” yesterday and
didn’t work, Liu said.  
 Honda Lock hired replacement workers to help restore
operations, and some striking employees lost their jobs, the New
York Times reported yesterday.  
 Sato declined to say whether Honda Lock had hired or fired
any workers. Liu said he saw cars at the protest site with signs
saying the company was hiring.  
 Workers attending a June 12 protest at the plant said they
were inspired to take action after hearing that Honda raised
salaries for striking employees at a parts plant in Foshan,
Guangdong, last month.  
 Honda said May 31 it agreed to increase pay by 24 percent
at the Foshan component factory to end a walkout that shut
production at all four of its Chinese car-assembly plants, the
first time labor issues forced Honda to halt local output.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Liza Lin  in Singapore at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Iwatani  in Tokyo at 
 tiwatani@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     An unidentified manager from the Honda Lock (Guangdong) Co. factory tries to persuade workers to go back to the factory in Zhongshan, Guangdong province, China. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 10 (Bloomberg) -- Yasheng Huang, professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Sloan School of Management, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about rising wages for factory workers in China.
     Taiwan's Foxconn Group said on June 6 it agreed to more than double wages at its Shenzhen factories following a spate of suicides. Honda Motor Co. halted work at two car-assembly factories in Guangzhou as workers at a plant partly owned by affiliate Yutaka Giken Co. walked out demanding higher pay. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
