-- Hong Kong Stocks Rise to One-Month High on Optimism U.S. Consumer to Spend
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-06-14T09:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/hong-kong-stocks-for-fifth-day-as-u-s-consumer-index-stokes-growth-hopes.html

          
          
             Hong Kong stocks  rose, driving the
Hang Seng Index to a one-month high, as increased sentiment
among U.S. consumers boosted speculation demand for products and
resources will increase in the world’s biggest economy.  
 Yue Yuen Industrial Holdings Ltd. , which makes shoes for
Nike Inc., climbed 1.3 percent. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.,
the nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal, climbed 2.8
percent after commodity prices advanced.  Geely Automobile
Holdings Ltd. , which makes nearly all of its revenue in China,
jumped 5.4 percent after the government said it will extend
subsidies on vehicle trade-ins.  
 The  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.9 percent to 20,051.91 in Hong
Kong, its highest close since May 14. The gauge has risen for
five straight days, the longest winning streak since March 11.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of Chinese companies’ so-
called H-shares climbed 1.6 percent to 11,520.95.  
 “The U.S. economic recovery is fine,” said  Khiem Do , the
Hong Kong-based head of Asian multi-asset strategy at Baring
Asset Management (Asia) Ltd., which oversees about $10 billion.
“We think most of the liquidation selling is over. In June,
we’re going to see bargain hunters coming back and dominating.”  
 The Hang Seng Index slumped 6.4 percent last month, the
most since January. Concerns over budget deficits in Europe and
speculation China’s government will further tighten money supply
have contributed to a 13 percent drop in the stock gauge from
its November high. Shares on the measure are priced at an
average  13.2 times  estimated earnings, down from 18 times on Nov.
16, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Consumer Sentiment  
 Stocks in the U.S. rose on June 11, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index adding 0.4 percent, as a private report
flagging an improvement in sentiment among American consumers
offset a government report showing a decline in U.S. retail
sales. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment increased to 75.5, the highest level
since January 2008.  
 Yue Yuen Industrial rose 1.3 percent to HK$23.45. Esprit
Holdings Ltd., a clothier that generates 98 percent of its
revenue overseas, climbed 3.1 percent to HK$45.65.  
 “The sentiment is clearly slightly more positive this
week,”  Vasu Menon , vice president of Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp.’s wealth-management unit, told Bloomberg Television. “The
outlook for the U.S. is generally quite positive.”  
 Six stocks rose for each that fell among the Hang Seng
Index’s 43 constituents. Futures on the gauge expiring in June
gained 1.2 percent to 20,087.  
 Thin Trading  
 Shares worth HK$38.2 billion changed hands today on Hong
Kong’s stock exchange, the  lowest level  since Feb. 18, as some
brokers delayed trading because of a holiday in China, where
markets reopen on June 17.  
 Trading has declined this month amid mounting concerns over
European debt and China tightening measures. The value of stock
changing hands on average in that time has slumped to HK$48.67
billion per day, compared with HK$66.2 billion for the year to
May 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Hang Seng
Index has risen 3.5 percent in the past five days.  
 “The weak volumes today seem to signify that not many
people believe that this move has legs,” said  Christian Kielland , a managing director at brokerage BTIG Hong Kong Ltd.
“Low conviction coupled with the holiday in greater China this
week is killing volumes across the region.”  
 Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. today said it had
shelved share-sale plans in Hong Kong, citing poor market
conditions, joining at least three other companies that have
scrapped offerings in recent weeks.  
 Chalco, PetroChina  
 Banks arranging Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s initial
public offering will start gauging investor demand for the sale
today, according to an e-mail sent to investors. The bank,
China’s largest by number of customers, will sell $10 billion to
$15 billion of shares in Hong Kong, the e-mail said.  
 The Hang Seng Commerce and Industry Index, which includes
oil and metal producers, rose 0.9 percent and accounted for 32
percent of the Hang Seng Index’s gain today.  
 Aluminum Corp. of China, also known as Chalco, jumped 2.8
percent to HK$6.27.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore oil
explorer, gained 1.2 percent to HK$13.06.  PetroChina Co. , the
world’s biggest company by market value, gained 1.4 percent to
HK$8.79.  
 The  London Metal Exchange Index  of six metals including
nickel and zinc advanced for a fourth day on June 11 with a 0.9
percent climb. Copper futures in New York rose as much as 2
percent in after-hours, electronic trading today, while crude
oil gained as much as 2 percent.  
 Chinese Automakers Surge  
 Chinese automakers listed in Hong Kong surged after the
Ministry of Commerce in China yesterday said it will extend
subsidies for trading in vehicles to the end of this year from
its previous deadline of May 31. The policy was introduced on
June 1 last year.  
 Geely Automobile, which receives 95 percent of its sales
from China as of December last year, gained 5.3 percent to
HK$2.58, its steepest advance since February 26.  
 Dongfeng Motor Group Co. jumped 6.8 percent to HK$8.66,
rising the most on the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index . Great
Wall Motor Co., which makes pick-up trucks and sport-utility
vehicles in China, rose 8.9 percent to HK$13.74.  
 China tripled the maximum amount it provides to consumers
who trade in old vehicles for new ones this year to as much as
18,000 yuan ($2,635). The world’s largest car market has
provided subsidies for 90,000 trade-in vehicles this year after
it raised the level of funding to help attract consumers, the
Commerce Ministry said on May 26.  
 The move to extend trade-in subsidies and recent policies
to subsidize purchases of energy efficient vehicles show the
government’s support for the car industry, said  Yankun Hou , a
Hong Kong-based analyst with Nomura Holdings Inc. Auto stocks
are rising as “the market may expect even more policies” to
support automakers from the government, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- John Tang, a strategist at UBS AG, talks in Hong Kong with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for China stocks.
     Tang also discusses Foxconn Technology Group's wage increases. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
