-- Monthly Inflation Data for May; Mukherjee Meets Bankers: India Week Ahead
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2010-06-14T03:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/monthly-inflation-data-for-may-mukherjee-meets-bankers-india-week-ahead.html

          
          
             India may today report the benchmark
inflation rate remained above 9 percent for the fifth straight
month in May, adding pressure on the central bank to raise
interest rates.  
 The wholesale-price  index  probably increased 9.60 percent
from a year earlier, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists, after gaining 9.59
percent the previous month. The commerce ministry will publish
the data at noon in New Delhi.  
 Inflation is threatening to flare up in Asia’s third-
biggest economy as a government report last week showed  factory
output  in April expanded 17.6 percent, just short of December’s
17.7 percent that was the fastest since at least 1994. The
Reserve Bank of India said last month it will raise interest
rates “cautiously” given the risks posed by Europe.
Shareholders of Reliance Industries Ltd., India’s biggest
company by market value, will hold a meeting on June 18.  
 The gauge of wholesale prices for May isn’t likely to
decline from the previous month,  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , deputy
chairman of the Planning Commission, said on June 11. India last
week delayed a decision to raise prices of fuels including
gasoline on concern it will stoke inflation.  
 Oil Secretary Sthanunathan Sundareshan said on June 8 that
Ministers led by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  may meet in
10 days to discuss a recommendation made by a panel in February
that India free gasoline and diesel prices from state control
and increase kerosene and cooking gas rates.  
 Meeting Bankers  
 Mukherjee will meet with the heads of state-owned banks in
Patna today to discuss cash availability at lenders, financial
inclusion and farm credit, the Press Trust of India reported
yesterday.  
 Stocks had their first weekly loss in three on concern
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will slow a global recovery. A
rally in the last three trading days of the week trimmed the
weekly loss in the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index , or
Sensex, to 0.3 percent.  
 DLF Ltd. , India’s biggest developer, was the biggest loser
last week on the Sensex while drugmaker  Cipla Ltd.  was the
largest gainer.  
 The yield on the benchmark 7.80 percent bonds due May 2020
advanced eight basis points last week to 7.61 percent after the
industrial production data.  
 The rupee was little changed from a week earlier at 46.845
per dollar.  

 
Event                                              Date
India monthly inflation data                      June 14
RBI, Finance Minister to meet bankers             June 14
India food inflation                              June 17
Reliance Industries shareholders meeting          June 18
 
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        