-- South Korea's Top General Offers to Quit Over Warship
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-06-14T10:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/top-south-korea-general-said-to-offer-to-quit-in-furor-over-ship-s-sinking.html

          
          
             South Korea’s top military commander
will be replaced after reports he mishandled North Korea’s
alleged torpedoing of a warship, which included allegations he
was drunk on duty at the time.  
 The government nominated Army Chief of Staff Han Min Koo
to replace  Joint Chiefs of Staff  Chairman General Lee Sang Eui,
according to a spokesman at the Defense Ministry who declined to
be identified, citing official policy. Han’s appointment has to
be ratified by lawmakers before he can take up the post.  
 Lee, who had offered to resign yesterday over the incident,
rejected some of the findings of a Board of Audit and Inspection
that last week said 25 generals and civilian officials should be
punished over the March 26 attack, in which 46 sailors died.  
 “While I humbly accept the fact that some mistakes had
been made, some of the findings that aren’t true have caused
myself and the military to lose face,” Lee said, according to a
statement distributed to local media that was confirmed by one
of the military spokesmen. The accusations “seriously damaged
military morale,” Lee said.  
 The allegations may fuel skepticism at home about the
military’s handling of the sunken ship as South Korea asks the
United Nations Security Council to punish North Korea. President
 Lee Myung Bak  today reiterated the need to make North Korea pay
for the attack, even as he vowed to fix problems in the military
and hold officials responsible.  
 Almost one in four South Koreans said they don’t trust the
May 20 findings of a multinational panel, according to a poll
commissions by the Hankook Ilbo newspaper on May 24.  The
People’s Solidarity for Participatory Democracy , a Seoul-based
civic organization, has sent e-mails to UN Security Council
members, raising questions about the panel’s findings and
calling for reinvestigation of the incident, Yonhap reported
today, citing an official on the council it didn’t identify.  
 North Denial  
 North Korea has denied any involvement and accused the
South of cooking up evidence to justify U.S.-led efforts to
contain the regime of  Kim Jong Il . The U.S. has pledged to help
South Korea bolster its military and Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  declared support for South Korea’s defense to be “rock
solid.” The U.S. has 28,500 troops stationed on the peninsula,
and about 50,000 more in neighboring Japan.  
 The U.S. and Japan are backing South Korea’s push for UN
action against North Korea, while China and Russia have so far
refused to criticize Kim’s government. Both China and Russia
have the power to veto any censure or sanctions proposed at the
Security Council.  
 The multinational panel plans to brief the UN Security
Council at 3 p.m. New York time on June 14, Kim Young Sun, a
spokesman for South Korea’s Foreign Ministry told reporters
today in Seoul. North Korea will give its evidence after that,
Reuters news agency reported, citing Kim.  
 Local Media  
 Reports that Lee Sang Eui was drunk or sleeping off a
hangover during the sinking have dominated local media. The
general didn’t return to duty until 5 a.m. on March 27, Yonhap
and the Hankyoreh newspaper reported on June 11. The 1,200-ton
Cheonan started sinking shortly after 9 p.m. the previous day.  
 South Korea’s military has denied reports that the general
was sleeping off a drinking session during the sinking. Lee Sang
Eui was in a command center between 10:42 p.m. on the night of
the incident until 2 a.m. the next day, Park Sung Woo, spokesman
for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters on June 11.  
 Kim Hwang Sik, chairman of the Board of Audit and
Inspection, told lawmakers on June 11 that the general had about
10 whiskey shots at dinner on March 26 before being told about
the incident. Lee was still sober enough to give proper orders
and was present in the military command center until 1:40 a.m.
the next day, Kim said.  
 “One thing we realized was that officials in important
command posts shouldn’t drink too much alcohol at any time
should it affect their decisions,” Kim told lawmakers.  
 The Joint Chiefs of Staff falsified the timing of the
sinking to disguise the military’s slow response, the state
auditors said on June 10. The military also edited out video
footage that would have revealed the actual timing of the event,
the auditors said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        