-- Los Angeles College's Record $1.2 Billion Debt Leads Municipal Bond Sales
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-06-14T20:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/los-angeles-college-district-s-record-1-2-billion-debt-leads-weekly-sales.html

          
          
             Los Angeles Community College
District, whose 137,000 students make it the nation’s largest
two-year system, plans to market a $1.2 billion offering, its
biggest on record, as soon as this month.  
 Last week’s  $9.1 billion  in issuance, the highest in three
weeks, outstripped investor demand and forced underwriters to
raise yields, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC analysts led by  Alan Schankel  said in a report June 11. Scheduled sales this week are
down 14 percent to $7.8 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 A combination of fewer issues and the second-highest credit
ratings from Moody’s Investors Service may help the district
hold down borrowing costs, said  William O’Connor , president of
O’Connor & Co. Securities Inc., a municipal underwriter based in
Newport Beach, California. The district is rated Aa1 by Moody’s.  
 “To have a name with that rating coming to this market
should be very attractive to buyers,” said O’Connor, who’s not
part of the underwriting group. “Anything with a double-double
rating on its own commands a premium.”  
 The Los Angeles district, made up of nine campuses in the
nation’s second most-populous city, intends to sell tax-exempt
capital appreciation bonds and taxable Build America Bonds. Most
of the proceeds will pay for construction and renovation,
preliminary offering documents show. The tax-exempts will be
sold during the last week of June, with the Build Americas set
for the third week of July, according to Alex Samuelson, a
spokesman for New York-based  Citigroup Inc. , which is marketing
the deals. Pricing dates will be subject to market conditions.  
 Tax-Exempt  
 A previous offer, a $621 million tax-exempt issue in
September 2008, sold at a premium, with investors paying more
than 103 cents on the dollar for 10-year maturities, according
to Bloomberg data. The yield was 3.62 percent, 5 basis points
below top-rated 10-year general obligations, according to
Municipal Market Advisors. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  
 Securities due in 25 years were priced to yield 4.69
percent at the sale date, 11 basis points below the index from
Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA. Those bonds traded June 4 at a
4.6 percent yield, 37 basis points  above benchmark  AAA debt due
in 2033.  
 The Los Angeles district generally “does trade well in the
secondary market,” O’Connor said. However, “if you look in
California, there is actually more supply than we’ve seen on an
average weekly basis.”  
 Full Faith  
 The offerings will be backed by the full faith and credit
of the district. Capital appreciation bonds are similar to so-
called zero-coupon bonds, except that the investment return on
the principal is reinvested at a compound rate until maturity.  
 The projects include building a so-called green-technology
student union at Los Angeles City College, a performing-arts
center at Los Angeles Valley College and a digital-arts and
media building at Los Angeles Pierce College. The sales will
also pre-pay $300 million in bond anticipation notes.  
 U.S. states and local governments are scheduled to sell
about $854 million in federally subsidized Build America Bonds
this week, Bloomberg data show. More than $112 billion in Build
America Bonds have been sold since they were introduced last
year as part of the economic stimulus. They are the fastest-
growing segment of the $2.8 trillion municipal market.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        