-- U.S. Approves First Contracts Tied to Movie Box-Office Receipts
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-06-15T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/movie-box-office-futures-contracts-win-approval-from-commodity-regulators.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators cleared the way for
investors to bet on movie box-office receipts as Hollywood
studios called on Congress to ban the new market.  
 Veriana Networks Inc. ’s  Trend Exchange  won  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  approval to offer contracts that
institutional investors use to wager on opening-weekend movie
revenue, according to a statement yesterday. The agency voted 3-
2 to clear the contracts.  
 Film studios and theater owners oppose such contracts,
calling them in a letter to the commission “wagers susceptible
to manipulation.” Witnesses from film-financing companies told
the agency at a May 19 hearing the contracts could help attract
capital. Congress is weighing a ban on trades in movie futures.  
 Veriana will start to sell contracts as soon as possible on
a set of movies to be determined,  Rob Swagger , chief executive
officer of Trend Exchange, said yesterday on a conference call.  
 The commission’s approval was “unfortunate,”  Robert Pisano , interim chief executive officer of the Motion Picture
Association of America, representing studios, said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 The Senate has passed language banning trade in futures
tied to box-office results, and Pisano called on legislative
negotiators to keep the provision in a bill now being worked out
by a conference committee. Swagger said he would fight to remove
the studio-backed proposal from broader financial legislation.  
 Film futures are a commodity and “not readily susceptible
to manipulation,” the agency said. The regulator has approved
trading in contracts for more than 500 commodities, including
statistics on non-farm payrolls and unemployment claims.  
 UFOs, White House  
 The CFTC’s analysis could result in “anything under the
sun” being considered a commodity, including “the likelihood
of UFOs hitting the White House,” Democratic Commissioner  Bart Chilton  said in an e-mail announcing his opposition. “Popcorn
prediction markets would serve no national public interest.”  
 Republican  Jill Sommers  also voted against the proposal.  
 The agency by June 28 must decide on Cantor Fitzgerald LP’s
proposal to let institutional and retail traders bet on ticket
sales in the four weeks after the August opening of  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. ’s  “The Expendables”  starring  Sylvester Stallone .  
 The contracts are “highly susceptible to potential
manipulation,” Pisano said yesterday. In earlier testimony to
the commodity commission, Pisano called the contracts
“freestanding bets” and said insiders can change release
dates, the number of theaters showing a film, and marketing
budgets.  
 Corn, Oil, Currencies  
 Lawmakers at a hearing in April expressed concern that
films, as products influenced by media coverage, may be more
prone to manipulation than commodities such as corn, oil and
currencies.  
 The commodity commission approved the Veriana and Cantor
exchanges in April, and is subjecting each type of contract to
scrutiny. Sommers  at the May 19 hearing said she wanted to know
whether the contracts can be useful hedging tools, and can be
manipulated.  
 Commissioners “want to be assured there’s actually a
commercial market for these things” and don’t want to “be
approving a whole bunch of speculative gambling contracts,”  Dan Waldman , a former CFTC general counsel who is head of the
derivatives practice in Washington at Arnold & Porter LLP, said
in an interview.  
 The agency must approve the applications unless it finds
the proposed instruments would violate the law governing futures
contracts, Richard Shilts, director of the commission’s division
of market oversight,  said  May 19.  
 Rentrak Data  
 The agency’s staff review focused on whether contracts were
susceptible to manipulation, including how box-office reporting
company  Rentrak Corp.  compiles its numbers, Shilts said.  
 Futures contracts could bring greater investments in films,
 Clark Hallren , managing partner of the Los Angeles-based
entertainment advisory Clear Scope Partners, said at the May 19
hearing.  
 “Volatility” has caused “a substantial withdrawal of
capital from the industry” and “a meaningful reduction in the
number of films,” Hallren said.  
 The Motion Picture Association represents  Viacom Inc. ’s
Paramount Pictures, Sony’s filmed entertainment division,  News
Corp .’s Twentieth Century Fox,  General Electric Co. ’s NBC
Universal,  Walt Disney Co.  and  Time Warner Inc. ’s Warner Bros.
Pictures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        