-- Toyota to Issue $2 Billion of Notes in Two-Part Sale
-- Tim Catts
-- 2010-06-14T20:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/toyota-motor-to-issue-2-billion-of-securities-maturing-in-5-10-years.html

          
          
               Toyota Motor Corp ., the world’s
largest automaker, may sell $2 billion of 5- and 10-year notes
as soon as today, according to a person familiar with the
offering.  
 The company may issue $1.25 billion of five-year notes at
120 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. Toyota also plans to sell $750 million of 10-year
bonds at a spread of 130 basis points, the person said. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 The sale is Toyota’s first benchmark offering of dollar-
denominated debt since 2006 and comes after the Toyota City,
Japan-based company recalled about 8 million vehicles worldwide
this year to fix sticky gas pedals and misshapen floor mats.
Toyota is paying more to borrow because of the recalls, said B.
Craig Hutson, an analyst at Gimme Credit LLC.  
 “The spreads are certainly above where they would have
been before the recalls came about,” Hutson said in a telephone
interview from  Chicago . “There’s a perception that there’s more
risk here than is indicated by their  credit rating .”  
 Justin Leach, a Toyota spokesman in Torrance,  California ,
declined to comment.  
 Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating on Toyota one step
to Aa2, the third-highest investment grade, on April 22 amid
recalls linked to unintended acceleration.  Standard & Poor’s 
affirmed its equivalent rank of AA on May 14.  
 Previous Sale  
 Toyota’s last benchmark sale of dollar-denominated
corporate bonds came in May 2006, when it sold $750 million of
five-year, 5.45 percent debt at a spread of 47 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company issues
notes through its finance arm, Toyota Motor Credit Corp.  
 Credit-default swaps tied to Toyota debt fell 0.6 basis
points to 80.7 basis points, according to CMA DataVision prices.
Contracts on the company rose to 104.2 basis points on Feb. 9,
the highest this year, CMA prices show.  
 Swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  
 “Even when they were in the midst of the crisis, nobody
thought this would be the end of company,” said  Mirko Mikelic ,
a senior money manager at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Grand
Rapids , Mich. “The market could put a number on it but they did
a pretty good job of controlling the damage.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        