-- Pakistan Stocks Tumble on Proposal to Make Capital Gains Tax Retroactive
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-06-14T10:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/pakistan-stocks-tumble-on-proposal-to-make-capital-gains-tax-retroactive.html

          
          
             Pakistan stocks tumbled, driving the
benchmark index to a six-month low, after a lawmaker proposed
extending a new tax on gains from equities.  
 The  Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index  fell 2.4 percent to
9,239.6 at 2:50 p.m., headed for the lowest since  Dec. 21 , after
former finance minister and opposition lawmaker Ishaq Dar
suggested a new capital gains tax on shares be applied
retrospectively. Only seven shares rose on the gauge, while 6
were unchanged and 87 slid.  
 “The comment created panic among investors,” said  Arif Habib , chairman of Arif Habib Group, which includes a brokerage.  
 Finance Minister  Abdul Hafeez Shaikh  announced in his
annual budget speech on June 5 that a capital gains tax would be
imposed for the first time since 1976, on shares bought after
July 1. Dar, however, told a panel of lawmakers on June 11 the
tax should be levied on shares bought before July 1, the
Business Recorder  reported  May 12.  
 The budget imposed a 10 percent tax on shares held for less
than six months and 7.5 percent on stocks held for between six
months and a year, and zero tax for those held longer.  
 Oil & Gas Development Co. , the company with the biggest
weighting on the index, fell 2.6 percent to 125.4 rupees, on
course for its steepest drop in seven months. MCB Bank Ltd., the
biggest by market value, declined 5 percent to 183.33 rupees,
headed for its sharpest decline since Sept. 3.  
 ‘Unprecedented Confusion’  
 “Taking this matter lightly may not only result in
unprecedented confusion in the market but may also lead to a
short-term decline in share prices,”  Hamad Aslam , head of
research at BMA Capital Management Ltd. in Karachi, wrote in a
note to clients on June 12.  
 Officials at the Federal Bureau of Revenue, the tax
collecting agency in Islamabad, met brokers at the Karachi Stock
Exchange on June 12 to convey Dar’s suggestions, the Business
Recorder said.  
 “It is the fear of losing out on profits that’s forcing
investors to sell their stocks before July 1,” said  Shahrukh Naqvi , head of equity sales at Invest Capital & Securities Ltd.
in Karachi.  
 The exchange plans to send a delegation to Islamabad to
discuss the proposal with government officials, Anita Mirza, a
spokeswoman for the  exchange , said by phone today.  
 “It’s a sensitive matter,” she said, adding that a date
for the meeting is still to be decided.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        