-- Pampa Energia Sees Profit Gain of as Much as 50% on Power Plant Expansion
-- Fabiola Moura
-- 2010-06-14T20:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/pampa-targets-as-much-as-50-profit-gain-as-it-expands-plant-mindlin-says.html

          
          
             Pampa Energia SA , Argentina’s
biggest electricity generator and distributor, expects profit to
increase as much as 50 percent as it expands the Loma de la Lata
power plant, Chairman and President  Marcelo Mindlin  said.  
 The facility in Argentina’s southern Neuquen province will
boost earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, known as ebitda, by  40 percent to 50 percent . The
180 megawatt-expansion will have an “important impact” on
earnings, Mindlin said today in an interview in Buenos Aires.  
 Pampa , which generates about 8 percent of Argentina’s
power, expects to complete the expansion between September and
November. The company is negotiating with industrial users and
mining companies to sell the power at rates set in the open
market, Mindlin, 46, said. Half the extra power has already been
contracted by the Argentine government, he said.  
 “I think the market is underestimating the size of this
investment,” said Mindlin, whose company is the fourth-worst
performer on Argentina’s  Merval  index this year. “We think Loma
de la Lata is going to increase ebitda by 40 to 50 percent.”  
 The company , which operates three gas-fired plants and two
hydroelectric facilities, is seeking ventures with gas producers
to become self-sufficient. Pampa’s plants consume between 8
percent and 9 percent of the country’s natural gas output. Loma
de la Lata on its own may use 2 percent, Mindlin said.  
 Natural Gas Shortage  
 A shortage of natural gas may have been one factor in Pampa
underperforming the benchmark, according to  Guido Bizzozero , an
analyst at Buenos Aires-based brokerage Allaria Ledesma y Cia
Sociedad de Bolsa SA, who spoke today in a telephone interview.  
 “The market is aware that Loma de la Lata and two other
plants didn’t produce much energy because they didn’t have
gas,” Bizzozero said.  
 Pampa  fell 1 centavo, or 0.6 percent, to 1.68 pesos as of
5:23 p.m. in Buenos Aires. The stock has declined 6.7 percent
this year, compared with a 1.3 percent drop for Argentina’s
benchmark Merval Index.  
 The company will sell power from the Loma expansion through
a government program called Energia Plus, which allows
electricity companies to sell to industrial users at market
prices, instead of at government-imposed regulated tariffs.  
 The Energia Plus program has helped energy companies
improve profit margins at a time when inflation and labor costs
in Argentina are accelerating. Inflation will rise 26 percent
this year from 15 percent in 2009, according to Buenos Aires-
based research company Ecolatina, which tracks prices for about
500 goods and services.  
 Labor Costs  
 “Labor costs are an issue,” Mindlin said.  Pampa Energia 
boosted salaries by about 20 percent two months ago, he said.  
 Argentina rationed power to the country’s biggest
industrial companies in 2007, during the coldest winter in about
eight decades, and again in 2008. Controls were relaxed in 2009
amid a warmer-than-average winter.  
 The nation needs to end energy subsidies that amount to $8
billion a year and change the rules of the industry to attract
investment,  Daniel Montamat  and  Enrique Devoto , two former
Argentine energy secretaries, said today in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  
 Mindlin is the majority shareholder in Pampa, through Pampa
Holdings LLC. Other major stockholders  include  investment groups
Autonomy Capital and Eton Park Capital Management.  
 Dolphin Group  
 Mindlin started buying energy assets after creating an
investment fund named Dolphin Group in 2003. The fund focused on
buying assets owned by foreign utilities saddled with losses
after the government devalued the peso and froze electricity
rates following a $95 billion debt default in 2001.  
 The Dolphin fund in 2005 bought a meatpacker called Pampa
Frigorifico. Pampa changed its name to Pampa Holdings later that
year and bought distributor Edenor from Paris-based Electricite
de France. Pampa Holding was renamed Pampa Energia in 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        