-- Poland Shouldn't Cut Budget Too Much Until Growth Assured, World Bank Says
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-06-15T04:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/poland-shouldn-t-cut-deficit-too-much-till-growth-assured-world-bank-says.html

          
          
             Poland should avoid cutting its
budget deficit too quickly so it doesn’t choke off the economic
recovery, the  World Bank  says.  
 “You don’t want to tighten the fiscal policy too much and
too quickly now,” said  Thomas Laursen , the bank’s manager for
Poland and the Baltic states, in a June 8 interview in Warsaw.
The country’s “debt is not at a critical level and there is
quite a lot of confidence in Polish economic management.”  
 While Poland’s debt rose to 51 percent of gross domestic
product last year, that is less than half the 115 percent figure
in Greece, where the European Union required immediate cost cuts
in return for a bailout. EU governments last week vowed to step
up review of national budgets and introduce new sanctions to
prevent a repeat of the Greek crisis that undermined the euro.  
 Michal Boni , chief adviser to Polish Prime Minister  Donald Tusk , said June 4 that spending cuts aren’t the government’s top
priority until  economic growth  is sustainable.  Economic growth 
slowed to 1.8 percent last year, from 5 percent in 2009 as the
global recession curbed demand for the country’s exports.  
 The government has proposed limiting increases in
discretionary spending to no more than 1 percent above inflation,
a measure it says will save 9 billion zloty ($2.7 billion) a
year by 2013. That will help narrow the deficit to less than the
European Union limit of 3 percent of GDP within three years,
Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said June 11.  
 Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at Citibank Handlowy in
Warsaw, said the proposals aren’t enough to prevent debt from
rising because they cover only about 26 percent of government
spending. The new rules won’t affect so-called inflexible
expenditures, such as subsidies for local government, social
insurance and debt service, which can’t be altered without
additional legislation.  
 ‘Far From Sufficient’  
 “These proposals are far from sufficient and should be
followed by additional measures to reduce the share of
inflexible spending from an unsustainably high level of 75
percent,” Kalisz said in an interview. “Although we see the
proposed measures as a first step in the right direction, it is
still definitely a very small step.”  
 Public debt may increase to 56.3 percent of GDP in 2011,
according to Poland’s plan for meeting the criteria for adopting
the euro. If debt rises above 55 percent of GDP it would trigger
mandatory austerity measures under Polish law. Throughout the EU,
debt rose to almost 74 percent of GDP last year.  
 Poland’s limited austerity measures aren’t a concern for
euro adoption because the economic slowdown and rising deficit
mean it will probably be three years before the country can meet
conditions for joining the single currency, Laursen said.
Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said last week that 2015 is a
realistic target for Poland to adopt the euro.  
 Growth ‘Below Potential’  
 It may make sense for Poland to join the European exchange-
rate mechanism, a prerequisite for joining the euro, as quickly
as possible because of the single currency’s decline against the
zloty, Laursen said. Entering the mechanism would peg the value
of the zloty to the euro.  
 “We don’t know what it’s going to look like in three
years,” Laursen said of the zloty’s exchange rate.  
 The zloty has gained 9.7 percent against the euro in the
past 12 months. The Polish currency rose to 4.0974 per euro
yesterday in Warsaw, after touching a three-week low of 4.1465
on June 11.  Marc Chandler , global head of currency strategy at
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York, said yesterday in a
note the Polish currency may reach 4.035 in the “near term.”  
 Poland’s economy will probably expand 3 percent this year,
which is still “below potential,” Laursen said.  
 The central bank’s Monetary Policy Council kept its
 benchmark seven-day rate  at a record low of 3.5 percent for an
11th month in May as it sought to balance concern about
inflation with the need to bolster economic growth. The
 inflation rate  fell below the bank’s 2.5 percent target in April
for the first time since September 2007.  
 “There are no immediate signs of inflationary pressure so
the current level of interest rates seems right where it stands,
rather than moving in any direction,” Laursen said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Donald Tusk, Poland's prime minister, attends a news conference with Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, in Berlin on Dec. 11, 2007. Photographer: Adam Berry/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
