-- Polish Government Doesn't Need `Rigid' Euro Adoption Goal, Komorowski Says
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-06-14T13:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/polish-government-doesn-t-need-rigid-euro-adoption-goal-komorowski-says.html

          
          
             Poland doesn’t need a “rigid”
target for euro adoption, though the government and central bank
should work with a timeline in mind to ensure responsible
economic policies, acting President  Bronislaw Komorowski  said.  
 “I don’t think setting a rigid deadline serves Poland, but
some sort of date needs to be given to create pressure to
fulfill the euro-eligibility criteria,” Komorowski, who leads
in opinion polls ahead of the June 20 first round of
presidential elections, told reporters in Poznan, western Poland.
“That would trigger a period of public-finance reform.”  
 Prime Minister  Donald Tusk , who has called a 2015 currency
switch “realistic,” on May 6 said euro adoption isn’t a
priority for his government. Poland, the only European Union
member to avoid an economic contraction last year, has been
unable to prevent its  budget deficit  widening to more than twice
the EU’s 3 percent limit of gross domestic product after rising
unemployment depleted state coffers.  
 The budget shortfall rose to 7.1 percent of gross domestic
product last year and may widen to 7.3 percent in 2010, the
European Commission estimates. The 10 former communist states to
have joined the EU since 2004 are obliged to adopt the euro once
they fulfill the bloc’s economic criteria. Estonia in January
will become the third eastern European euro member after
Slovenia and Slovakia.  
 Mapping Targets  
 Poland will meet euro-eligibility requirements for
inflation by the end of this year while fiscal conditions will
be met by 2013 “at the latest,” Deputy Finance Minister  Ludwik Kotecki  said in an interview on TVN CNBC Biznes television today.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own  Polish five-year 
bonds over  German equivalent  rose to the highest level since
October 2008 last month as Europe’s debt crisis reduced
prospects that the EU’s biggest eastern member will adopt the
euro any time soon. The spread rose to 4.02 percent on May 25
from 2.86 percent on April 14, according to  Bloomberg data .  
 “2015-2016 are still realistic dates” for euro adoption,
“although I wouldn’t treat them as a target,” Kotecki said.
“Poland wants to enter the euro zone as quickly as possible
but only after meeting the Maastricht criteria; right now we
don’t fulfill any of them.”  
 The 1992 Maastricht Treaty requires EU members to keep
their budgets within 3 percent of GDP, debt below 60 percent of
GDP and inflation within 1.5 percentage points of the three
members with the lowest rates.  
 -- With assistance from  Dorota Bartyzel  and  David McQuaid  in
Warsaw. Editor:  Tasneem Brogger .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        