-- Portugal Telecom CEO Fights for `Last Sweetener'
-- Paul Tobin
-- 2010-06-14T22:06:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/portugal-telecom-s-bava-makes-drive-for-last-sweetener-from-telefonica.html

          
          
             Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  Chief
Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  is stepping up the fight to force
his counterpart at  Telefonica SA ,  Cesar Alierta , to put more
money on the table for control of their Brazilian venture.  
 Telefonica’s increased 6.5 billion-euro ($7.9 billion)
offer to buy Portugal Telecom’s stake in  Brasilcel NV , which
controls Brazil’s  Vivo Participacoes SA , understates the
“intrinsic value” of Vivo, Bava said June 9. He has been
lobbying investors before a June 30 vote on the bid.  
 “Bava is absolutely looking after shareholders by trying
to get a higher offer, and there may be room for a last
sweetener,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C
Bernstein in London “But, if he doesn’t close the deal, it will
be hard for him to recover his credibility as the CEO of a
public company.”  
 Bava is caught between squeezing the best price for Vivo,
Brazil’s largest wireless operator, and making sure Telefonica
doesn’t walk away. Portugal Telecom’s fifth-biggest shareholder
said yesterday it would reject the offer, while a group advising
other investors recommended they accept it.  
 Portugal Telecom said last week the company can provide
“no assurance” that “similar value will be delivered to the
shareholders for Vivo.”  
 Valuing Vivo  
 Madrid-based Telefonica, which said its first offer of 5.7
billion euros was “fair, full and final,” wants control of
Vivo to merge it  with Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA , or 
Telesp, its fixed-line unit in Brazil. The initial bid was 
unanimously rejected by the Lisbon-based company’s board.  
 Telefonica estimates that the Vivo-Telesp combination can
generate 2.8 billion euros in savings, while Portugal Telecom
says the amount should be higher. “Telefonica has consistently
understated the intrinsic value of Vivo,” Bava said June 9.
“When Telefonica talks about synergies, they are using brokers’
estimates and not their own estimates.”  
 The Spanish company should raise its bid for the Vivo stake
to 7.5 billion euros, ING Groep NV analysts said May 21, before
Telefonica increased its offer on June 1.  
 Portugal Telecom  investor  Ongoing Strategy Investments SGPS
SA, which owns a 6.8 percent stake in the Portuguese company,
says it plans to vote against the revised offer.  
 “At this price my answer is clearly no,” Chairman  Nuno Vasconcellos  said in an interview yesterday. The offer “doesn’t
reflect Vivo’s strategic value or the benefits Telefonica could
get from merging a mobile business with Telesp.”  
 Blow to Bava  
 Bava’s efforts to seek more money were dealt a blow after
Institutional Shareholder Services, the influential group that
advises investors, recommended that Portugal Telecom
shareholders accept Telefonica’s offer.  
 “In light of the value-maximizing proposal, corporate
governance considerations, and in the absence of a compelling
alternative, a vote for the Vivo sale deliberation is
warranted,” it said in a report dated June 13.  
 Bava took his fight to investors last week, asking them to
pay no heed to what he said were threats from Telefonica over
their venture Brasilcel’s dividend and its future.  
 “Telefonica is telling investors they will stop the
dividends and dissolve Brasilcel” if the offer is rejected,
Bava said. “These threats are unfounded and totally
unacceptable and we have legal advice that none of this is
possible.”  
 Portugal Telecom relies on dividend from units and asset
sales to pay its own dividend, Telefonica said. The Brazilian
venture’s dividend requires agreement from both partners.  
 Behind the war of words, there’s a lot at stake for both
Bava and Alierta in seeing the transaction through.  
 ‘Credibility Issue’  
 “Portugal Telecom would have a very hard job explaining to
investors how they are going to create such value if the bid
fails,” said  Guy Peddy , an analyst at Macquarie Securities in
London. “Telefonica also faces a credibility issue if they are
not able to pull it off.”  
 Bava, 44, became Portugal Telecom’s chief financial officer
in 2000. That same year, Alierta, who is 21 years older, was
appointed chairman and chief executive officer of Telefonica.  
 The two executives were present at the 2001 creation of
their equally owned joint venture in Brazil, a country where
both companies sought growth as demand at home cooled.  
 Telefonica, which faces rivals Vivendi and America Movil,
controled by Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , in the Brazilian
market, needs to bolster its unit  Telesp , whose first-quarter
sales fell 1.4 percent in local-currency terms.  
 Telefonica’s second offer allows the sale of the stake
immediately or over a three-year period at Portugal Telecom’s
discretion. It also grants Portugal Telecom a call option on the
stake Telefonica owns in the Portuguese operator.  
 Brazilian Options  
 Portugal Telecom’s reliance on Brazil for growth
underscores management’s reluctance to accept the Vivo offer.
Brazil  sales  rose 27 percent in the first quarter, while revenue
at home fell 3.6 percent.  
 Since  2006 , Vivo has overtaken the fixed-line unit as the
company’s biggest revenue contributor, accounting for half of
sales in the first quarter. Vivo had 30 percent of Brazil’s 179
million wireless subscriptions at the end of March, according to
Anatel, the country’s phone regulator.  
 That will prompt Portugal Telecom to funnel the proceeds
from a Vivo sale back into Brazil, probably via a stake in Oi,
as Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA is known, analysts have
said. Shares in Oi have surged on such speculation.  
 “The interests of Portugal Telecom investors would be
poorly served if a deal is not closed,”  Juan Carlos Acitores ,
who helps oversee about $20 billion in assets at Ahorro
Corporacion in Madrid. “The amount of detail in the revised
offer is a reflection of a negotiation, so it’s hard to
understand why an agreement has not been reached.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Portugal Telecom ambition buoys Oi  
                       
                         
                           Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A sign sits on display outside an Oi mobile phone store in the Eldorado Mall in Sao Paulo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A sign sits on display outside an Oi mobile phone store in the Eldorado Mall in Sao Paulo. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A man walks pat a Vivo store in Brasilia, Brazil. Photographer: Adriano Machado/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
