-- Portugal Telecom Investor Ongoing to Oppose Vivo Sale, Calls Price Too Low
-- Anabela Reis
-- 2010-06-14T10:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/portugal-telecom-investor-ongoing-to-oppose-vivo-sale-calls-price-too-low.html

          
          
             Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  investor
Ongoing Strategy Investments SGPS SA plans to vote against
selling the company’s stake in a Brazilian joint venture at a
shareholder meeting this month.  
 “At this price my answer is clearly no,” Chairman  Nuno Vasconcellos  said in a telephone interview today. The offer
“doesn’t reflect Vivo’s strategic value or the benefits
Telefonica could get from merging a mobile business with
Telesp,” he said, referring to the Brazilian fixed-line phone
company Madrid-based  Telefonica  controls.  
 Portugal Telecom is asking investors to vote June 30 on an
increased 6.5 billion-euro ($8 billion) bid from Telefonica for
its stake in their venture, which controls Brazil’s largest
wireless operator,  Vivo Participacoes SA . Ongoing is Portugal
Telecom’s fourth-biggest investor, with a 6.8 percent stake.  
 Portugal’s biggest phone company rejected an earlier bid of
5.7 billion euros for its Vivo stake and says the latest offer
still doesn’t reflect the benefits  Telefonica  could extract from
the takeover. Telefonica says it wants to buy out Vivo’s
minority investors and merge the wireless company with
Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA, or Telesp.  
 Analysts including JPMorgan Cazenove’s  Daniel Morris  and
Banif Investment Bank’s  Teresa Martinho  said last week the bid
may rise by another 500 million euros.  
 ‘Handful of Nothing’  
 “Telefonica can’t expect us to leave Brazil with a handful
of nothing,” Vasconcellos said, reiterating his earlier
comments that maintaining an operation in Brazil is strategic
for Lisbon-based Portugal Telecom. “We need enough money and
conditions to go in a different direction,” declining to say
what a fair offer would be.  
 Since 2006, Vivo has overtaken Portugal Telecom’s fixed-
line unit as the biggest  revenue  contributor, accounting for
half of sales in the first quarter. Brazil sales rose 27 percent
in the first quarter, while revenue at home fell 3.6 percent.
The company also has stakes in other Portuguese-speaking
countries such as Angola, Macau and East Timor, though they
represent just 3 percent of total revenue.  
 “The  board  mandated the chief executive officer and the
chief financial officer to discuss a better solution for
everyone,” he said. Vasconcellos said he has no information on
how these talks are going.  
 “The executive board must give investors a clear
indication on whether Vivo is to be sold at this price or not,”
said Vasconcellos, who is a non-executive board member. “They
must take that responsibility.”  
 CEO  Zeinal Bava  hasn’t issued a recommendation on how
investors should vote at the shareholder meeting, though he has
said repeatedly that Telefonica’s offer doesn’t reflect Vivo’s
strategic value.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anabela Reis  in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        