-- Pound Gains on Speculation Economic Expansion May Lead to Rate Increase
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-06-14T16:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/pound-gains-government-bonds-fall-on-speculation-interest-rates-may-rise.html

          
          
             The pound rose and gilts fell after
reports predicting faster economic growth and a narrower-than-
forecast budget deficit spurred speculation the Bank of England
will have to raise interest rates.  
 Sterling advanced to a one-month high versus the dollar
after policy maker  Andrew Sentance  said officials face
“interesting debates” in the second half of 2010 on how long
to keep up stimulus. The Confederation of British Industry, the
U.K.’s biggest business lobby, raised its forecast for gross
domestic product. The Office for Budget Responsibility said the
deficit will narrow to 71 billion pounds ($105 billion) by April
2015, from 155 billion pounds this fiscal year.  
 “We’re getting increasingly positive comments,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp.
in London. “Sovereign risk has clearly been a driver of risk
retreat and there’s a relief to some extent that lawmakers are
getting on with” tackling the U.K. budget deficit, he said.  
 The pound rose 1.5 percent to $1.4765 as of 5:10 p.m. in
London after reaching $1.4809, the highest level since May 13.
It was 0.1 percent stronger at 83.18 pence per euro. Sterling
advanced against all but two of its 16 most-traded peers.  
 The yield on the short-sterling futures contract for March
2011 rose eight basis points to 1.22 percent as investors added
to bets policy makers will increase the key rate, which is at an
all-time low of 0.5 percent.  
 Interest Rates  
 Bank of England policy makers last week kept the key rate
at a record low for a 16th month and held a bond-purchase
program at 200 billion pounds, even as inflation exceeds the
government’s 3 percent upper limit.  
 Inflation reached a 17-month high of 3.7 percent in April.
The Office for National Statistics may say tomorrow that
consumer-price growth was 3.5 percent in May, according to the
median of 30 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “Surveys point to some upward pressure on public inflation
expectations,” Sentance wrote in an article published yesterday
in the Sunday Times. “There also appears to be less spare
capacity in the economy than many had feared.”  
 Gross domestic product will rise 1.3 percent this year,
compared with a prediction in March of 1 percent, the CBI said
in an e-mailed press release. That’s because a drop in the pound
is helping manufacturers to increase exports. The group kept its
2011 forecast unchanged at 2.5 percent growth.  
 “The U.K. economy continues to emerge from the effects of
the financial crisis,” Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  said in the central bank’s quarterly bulletin published
today. “That recovery is likely to gather pace over the next
year.”  
 Budget Day  
 Sterling fell 8.7 percent this year against the dollar amid
speculation the central bank will keep rates at a record low as
lawmakers tackle its record budget deficit. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  is set to outline spending cuts in an
emergency budget on June 22. Fitch Ratings said last week that
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition needs to step up the
pace of reductions to protect Britain’s top credit rating.  
 The OBR, set up by the new government, said today GDP will
rise 2.6 percent next year, less than the 3.25 percent predicted
by the Labour government in March.  
 “The report is slightly more positive about the U.K.’s
prospects than was expected,” boosting the pound, said  Paul Robinson , a currency strategist at Barclays Capital in London.  
 Stocks Gain  
 OBR head  Alan Budd  said in a press conference in London
today there was a 50 percent probability of the budget deficit
falling below 4 percent of gross domestic product in 2014-2015.
The budget office will release revised forecasts on June 22 to
take account of the measures announced by Osborne.  
 The yield on the 10-year gilt increased seven basis points
to 3.54 percent and the two-year note yield advanced nine basis
points to 0.9 percent.  
 “Stocks are extending last week’s gains and that’s taking
the shine off government bonds,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets
Ltd., a broker for banks and investors.  
 The FTSE 100 Index of shares rose 0.7 percent, after a 0.7
percent gain last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        