-- Primedia Wins Dismissal of Investor Lawsuits Over Share Buybacks by KKR
-- Jef Feeley
-- 2010-06-14T22:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/primedia-wins-dismissal-of-investor-lawsuits-over-share-buybacks-by-kkr.html

          
          
             Primedia Inc., publisher of free
auto and real-estate guides, persuaded a judge to throw out
claims that share buybacks unfairly benefited buyout firm
 Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. , the company’s controlling
shareholder.  
 Delaware Chancery Court Judge  Travis Laster  today dismissed
Primedia investors’ lawsuits seeking to recoup monies for the
company tied to the KKR buybacks after agreeing with the
recommendation of an internal committee that the claims weren’t
viable and could only recover a small amount of damages.  
 A special committee tapped to review Primedia directors’
decision to purchase more than $400 million of its own preferred
shares held by KKR “acted quite thoroughly” in assessing the
strength of the investors’ claims, Laster said after a hearing
today. KKR owns about 60 percent of Primedia’s shares, according
to court filings.  
 KKR officials announced today they are investing as much as
$400 million in a partnership with Hilcorp Energy Co. to develop
Texas oil and gas properties.  
 Private-equity managers have resumed deal making after an
almost three-year slump. Buyout firms have announced $31 billion
in transactions this year, more than five times the amount in
the same period in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Magazine Selloff  
 Kristi Huller, a KKR spokeswoman, declined to comment today
on Laster’s decision.  
 Norcoss, Georgia-based Primedia once published popular
consumer magazines, such as Soap Opera Digest, until the company
sold off many of its titles starting in 2002 to wipe out almost
$2 billion in debt. It now focuses on free apartment-rental and
auto-sale publications and related websites.  
 The company sold about 70 magazines including Motor Trend,
Hot Rod and Surfer to Source Interlink Co., a company controlled
by billionaire investor  Ron Burkle , for about $1.2 billion in
cash in 2007.  
 Investors alleged that Primedia officials were forced to
sell off profitable magazines to finance the buybacks that
benefited KKR. They contend KKR’s preferred stock was purchased
at full price several years before Primedia was contractually
obligated to do so, according to court filings. Primedia
shareholders also argue the buybacks resulted in at least $150
million in profits for KKR.  
 Special Committee  
 Former Chancery Court Judge  Stephen Lamb  refused to dismiss
the cases back in 2006. After Lamb retired, the cases were
assigned to Laster as his replacement.  
 Primedia officials also appointed a Special Litigation
Committee to review the so-called derivative claims over the
buybacks to assess whether the company had viable claims against
board members who approved them.  
 The committee spent a year reviewing the claims and
interviewing Primedia and KKR executives, according to court
filigs. Gregory Joseph, the committee’s lawyer, told Laster
today the group spent $1.5 million on the probe.  
 The committee concluded investors claims “were dubious at
best,” Joseph said. There “really wasn’t any harm” to
Primedia because of the share buybacks, he added.  
 James Notis , a lawyer for Primedia investors, said the
evidence was clear that KKR officials had inside information
about Primedia’s performance and they purchased the preferred
shares based on that information.  
 Insider Trading  
 “KKR made $150 million trading on insider information,”
Notis said today. He urged Laster to consider the allowing the
claims to go forward so KKR and Primedia officials could be held
accountable for their actions.  
 Laster said investors faced obstacles in proving Primedia
was damaged by buying KKR’s preferred shares and the cost of
litigating the case outweighed what the company was likely to
recover.  
 Notis, investors’ New Jersey-based lawyer, said
shareholders “would consider their options” on whether to ask
the Delaware Supreme Court to review Laster’s decision.  
 The case is In re Primedia Inc. Derivative Litigation,
1808-N, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        