-- Qatari Diar Hid E-Mails, Let Witnesses Lie at Trial, Candy's Lawyer Says
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-06-14T15:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/qatari-diar-hid-e-mails-let-witnesses-lie-at-trial-candy-s-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment
Co., part of the emirate’s sovereign-wealth fund, deleted e-mail
evidence and let witnesses lie during a trial over a botched
deal to build luxury apartments at London’s  Chelsea Barracks ,
U.K. developer CPC Group Ltd. told a judge.  
 Qatari Diar “deliberately destroyed” relevant e-mails
while its law firm,  Herbert Smith , failed before last month’s
trial to search a server in London that held messages deleted
from one in Doha, CPC lawyer  Anthony Stephen Grabiner  said. The
new messages support CPC’s claim that Qatari Diar isn’t being
truthful about why it abandoned the luxury development, he said
at a hearing today at the High Court in London.  
 “All these witnesses lied to you and I when they gave
evidence,” and were motivated by a need to conceal the true
reason for backing out of the real-estate deal, Grabiner said at
the hearing. CPC, controlled by real-estate entrepreneur
 Christian Candy , claims the emir of Qatar instructed the company
to abandon the development.  
 CPC sued for breach of contract in November claiming Qatari
Diar must pay as much as 81 million pounds ($119.8 million) for
backing out of the deal. Qatari Diar claims it owes nothing
because no value was created at the site.  
 Judge  Peter Smith  said today the new e-mails wouldn’t
prevent him from reaching a judgment before the end of July.  
 Rapid Pace  
 Joe Smouha, Qatari Diar’s lawyer from Essex Court Chambers,
said in a June 9 court filing that the rapid pace of the trial
led to the late discovery of the e-mails.  
 Qatari Diar “was required to carry out disclosure at a
break-neck pace in order to satisfy CPC’s unjustified insistence
on as early a trial as possible,” Smouha said in the filing.  
 Smouha denied CPC’s claim that Qatari Diar’s witnesses were
lying and said the e-mail highlighted by CPC -- written by
former Qatari Diar spokesman Christopher Joll -- doesn’t support
the developer’s allegations.  
 The claim “that QD’s witnesses were not telling the truth
and that their evidence was ‘concocted’ is unsustainable,”
Smouha said in a filing. “When properly examined,” the e-mail
“adds nothing to the other evidence on which CPC relies.”  
 Herbert Smith  had similar problems with e-mail evidence
when it represented Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. in a U.K.
antitrust regulator’s criminal case against four current and
former British Airways Plc executives over an alleged price-
fixing scheme. The firm declined to comment on the Qatari case.  
 Prince’s Criticism  
 A joint venture of CPC and Qatari Diar paid 959 million
pounds for Chelsea Barracks in January 2008. In November of that
year, Qatari Diar bought out CPC’s stake for an initial payment
of about 38 million pounds and agreed to make 81 million pounds
in deferred payments, CPC said. Candy was retained for project
management, design and marketing.  
 When  Prince Charles  subsequently criticized the development
as unsuitable for the area, Qatari Diar withdrew its planning
application. CPC claims Qatari Diar deleted e-mails relating to
Prince Charles in order to hide evidence. The company sued in
November for breach of contract.  
 Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani , the emirate’s ruler,
spoke to Prince Charles in February 2009 about his objections to
the project, according to CPC’s lawsuit. Prince Charles turned
over notes about the meeting, CPC’s lawyer Grabiner said.  
 The Chelsea Barracks development was planned to include
mixed-use buildings of between five and 13 stories, comprising
638 residential units, as well as hotel space, a community
center, retail units and restaurants, court papers show.  
 The case is CPC Group Ltd. v. Qatari Diar Real Estate
Investment Company, case no. 4260/09, High Court of Justice,
Chancery Division (London).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        