-- Treasuries Pare Drop as Stocks Erase Gains After Greece's Rating Lowered
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-06-14T20:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/treasuries-fall-as-signs-of-global-recovery-sap-demand-for-government-debt.html

          
          
             Treasuries pared losses as stocks
erased gains after Moody’s Investors Service cut the rating of
Greece to below investment-grade.  
 Government bonds earlier dropped as a report showed
Europe’s industrial production increased in April more than
economists forecast, revising speculation that the global
economy will weather the sovereign-debt crisis. The rates on
Treasury bills slid on demand for quarter-end liquidity.  
 “We’re going tick-for-tick with stocks,” said  Ray Remy ,
head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Securities Group Inc.,
one of 18 primary dealers that trade directly with the Federal
Reserve. “It was all set in motion with Moody’s downgrade of
Greece. Treasuries have started to rally.”  
 The yield on the 10-year note rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 3.26 percent at 4:22 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 3.5 percent
security maturing in May 2020 dropped 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000
face amount, to 101 31/32.  
 The gain in the 10-year note’s yield was reduced by six
basis points as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  ended the day
down 0.2 percent after earlier advancing 1.3 percent.  
 Greece’s credit rating was cut four steps to non-investment
grade, or junk, by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the
country’s economic “risks.”  
 The rating was lowered to Ba1 from A3, Moody’s said in a
statement today from London. The outlook is stable, it said.
Greece is already rated junk by Standard & Poor’s.  
 “It was Greece’s downgrade, then the markets started to
reverse,” said  Tom Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  
 Greece Rescue  
 The European Union announced last month a rescue package of
almost $1 trillion, with support from the International Monetary
Fund, to shore up the finances of the region’s weakest economies
amid concern that governments will struggle to narrow their
budget deficits.  
 Output for the euro region’s economy rose 0.8 percent in
April, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said
today. The median forecast of 33 economists was for a 0.5
percent gain.  
 The sovereign-debt crisis shouldn’t postpone an increase in
the Fed’s target lending rate, St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said at a press briefing in Tokyo. His comments contrast
with Chicago Fed President Charles Evans and Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart , who have in recent weeks said
European turmoil may slow any U.S. boost in borrowing costs.  
 The Fed will probably take “significant” time to shift
toward tighter monetary policy as long as the economy takes
years to reach full employment and inflation is low, said the
Fed’s regional bank in San Francisco.  
 Fed Rate View  
 Taking into account the effects of the Fed’s asset
purchases, “the recommended period of a near-zero funds rate
would end at the beginning of 2012,”  Glenn Rudebusch , the bank’s
associate director of research, wrote in a paper released today.  
 UBS AG revised its forecast for the Fed to begin increasing
interest rates in January rather than September because of the
European debt crisis. The fed funds target will be at 1.50
percent by the end of 2011, or 50 basis points lower than its
previous forecast, UBS said in a research note today.  
 Futures contracts on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a 29
percent chance U.S. policy makers will raise the target rate for
overnight lending by at least a quarter-percentage point by the
December meeting, compared with 28 percent odds late last week.
The U.S. central bank has kept the target in a range of zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008.  
 Bill Demand  
 The 4-week bill  rate  dropped as low as 0.0132 percent, the
lowest level since reaching 0.0051 percent on Feb. 1. The rate
on the 3-month bill touched 0.0487 percent, the lowest level
since Jan. 26, while the rate on the 12-month Treasury  bill 
reached 0.2804 percent, the lowest level since Feb. 9.  
 There’s “heightened demand” for a place to park cash as
the quarter ends, New York-based strategists  Alex Roever  and
 Teresa Ho  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. wrote in a June 11 research
note to clients.  
 Many money funds are preparing for shareholder redemptions
near the end of the quarter and are “building in extra
liquidity” through short-dated bill positions, they wrote. In
addition, there’s record cash on corporate balance sheets
favoring Treasuries and an elevated amount of cash among the
assets of institutional investors, according to the analysts.  
 The Fed held the first of its tests of the term deposit
facility, a tool that may be used eventually to tighten credit
by draining cash from the banking system.  
 The central bank offered $1 billion of 14-day term deposits
through an auction. The maximum interest rate for the deposits
will be the primary credit rate, or discount rate, currently
0.75 percent. The results of the auction will be announced
tomorrow at about noon.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        