-- Treasury 10-Year Yield to Drop Below 3% on Europe Risk, Deutsche Bank Says
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-06-14T20:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/treasury-10-year-yield-to-drop-below-3-on-europe-risk-deutsche-bank-says.html

          
          
             The  yield  on the 10-year U.S.
Treasury note will fall below 3 percent in the coming months, a
level last touched in April 2009, as investors flee risk in the
wake of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, Deutsche Bank AG said.  
 “Europe is in crisis, and until the crisis resolves
itself, there is no reason to be bearish” on Treasuries,
analysts led by fixed-income director  Dominic Konstam  in New
York, wrote in a note dated June 11. “We expect 10-year yields
to trade below 3 percent as euro ‘crisis’ concerns persist.”  
 Treasuries pared losses today after Greece’s credit rating
was cut four steps to non-investment grade, or junk, by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited the country’s economic “risks.”
The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond has fallen 39
basis points to 3.26 percent since April on concern efforts to
reduce budget deficits in Europe will weigh on global growth.  
 Lower yields may end up sustaining economic growth rather
than being indicative of a slowdown, aiding mortgage refinancing
and allowing the Federal Reserve to sell its mortgage holdings
faster than anticipated, according to the analysts. Deutsche
Bank said yields may eventually rise to 3.5 percent.  
 “The decline in yields is ‘temporary’ and yields will
gravitate higher late in the year,” the analysts wrote. “Lower
yields should be seen as securing the ongoing moderate recovery
rather than a harbinger of a double dip.”  
 Deutsche Bank economists forecast the Fed will raise its
target rate to 75 basis points by year-end. Policy makers have
kept their target rate for overnight loans between banks at a
record low range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        