-- Reliance Industries May Invest $5 Billion in Wireless Internet: Analysts
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-06-14T12:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/reliance-industries-to-spend-5-billion-on-wireless-internet-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s
biggest company by market value, may spend about $5 billion on a
wireless Internet venture as Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  reenters an
industry he left to his brother in 2005, analysts said.  
 The company plans to spend more than $1 billion on leasing
infrastructure, such as base stations and optic-fiber lines for
its broadband services,  Alok Deshpande , an analyst with Elara
Capital Ltd., said. Reliance, which briefed analysts June 12,
will also pay 128.5 billion rupees ($2.8 billion) for Internet
services licenses earmarked for Infotel Broadband Services Ltd.,
which it bought last week for 48 billion rupees, he said.  
 “That money is about one year’s free cash flow,” said
 Jigar Shah , the Mumbai-based head of research at Kim Eng
Securities Pvt. “They are making an effort to use the cash they
are generating from their current operations in a business they
have known in the past.”  
 The acquisition of Infotel returns Ambani to the
communications industry five years after he handed over his
interests in the sector to his younger sibling Anil, who
controls Reliance Communications Ltd. The brothers, who broke up
India’s second-biggest industrial group in 2005, last month said
they would compete in each other’s sectors for the first time,
ending a spat that delayed infrastructure projects and a merger.  
 Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Mumbai-based Reliance
Industries, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  
 Shares Gain  
 Shares  in Reliance Industries gained 1.6 percent to
1,063.50 rupees, the highest since May 13, in Mumbai trading
compared with a similar increase in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index  of the Bombay Stock Exchange. The shares have declined 10
percent in the past year.  
 “The telecoms business gives clarity on the deployment of
their cash and that helps push up shares,” said  Deepak Pareek ,
a Mumbai-based analyst with Angel Broking Ltd. Reliance has
money left over for further acquisitions in the oil and gas
sectors, he said.  
 Since Reliance Industries began producing natural gas from
India’s  biggest field  in the Bay of Bengal in April last year it
generates about $1 billion of free cash flow every year, Kim Eng
Securities’ Shah said.  
 It has outstanding  debt  of about 625 billion rupees and
cash and equivalents of 218.7 billion rupees as of March 31, the
company said in April.  
 Reliance is in talks with banks to borrow $1 billion, two
people with direct knowledge of the matter said June 4.  
 15,000 Base Stations  
 Following the acquisition of Infotel, Reliance Industries
will deploy 15,000 base stations across India, increasing to
20,000, at a cost of $1.07 billion to $1.5 billion over the next
three years,  Shubham Majumder , a Mumbai-based analyst with
Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a note to clients today.  
 Anil Ambani ’s  Reliance Communications Ltd.  said it dropped
out of the bidding for Internet services permits after securing
third-generation mobile-phone licenses in an earlier auction.  
 The company said in a June 14 statement that it looks
forward to competing with Reliance Industries and other wireless
providers using its “different choice of technologies.”  
 Infotel was the only company to win licenses in all 22
regions in the auction of wireless broadband Internet services
that ended on June 11, the Department of Telecommunications said
in a statement on June 11. Aircel Ltd. won eight regional
licenses for 34.38 billion rupees.  
 Less than 5 percent of mobile phone users in India use
wireless broadband and that gives Reliance Industries the
opportunity to grow, the company said in a  presentation  on its
website. China has 130 million broadband users and India can get
that many users in three to four years, according to the
presentation.  
 Ratings Affirmed  
 Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s maintained
their ratings on Reliance Industries. Moody’s reaffirmed its
Baa2 and Standard & Poor’s its BBB rating, they said in separate
statements today. Both the ratings are the second-lowest in
investment grade.  
 The winning bidders are betting India’s growing economy,
which is forecast to surge 8.5 percent in the year ending March,
will spur consumers to spend more on wireless products and
services. The license-sale proceeds add to the 677.2 billion
rupees the government raised from last month’s auction of
mobile-phone permits, giving Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  more
room to cut the fiscal deficit.  
 Eleven companies, including  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  and  Qualcomm
Inc. , competed for two bandwidth slots in each of 22 regional
zones in the auction for BWA, or broadband wireless access. The
spectrum will allow them to use new technologies like Wimax, a
wireless broadband technology that would allow users to download
an hour-long movie in about 40 seconds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        