-- Reliance Communications Rises to Five-Month High on Tower Unit Stake Sale
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-06-15T11:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/reliance-communications-approves-selling-stake-in-reliance-infratel-unit.html

          
          
             Reliance Communications Ltd. ,
India’s second-largest wireless carrier, rose to a five-month
high in Mumbai trading after saying it will sell stakes in its
mobile-phone tower unit and use the proceeds to pay debt.  
 The company, controlled by billionaire  Anil Ambani , is in
“advanced talks” with local and overseas companies for a cash
and stock transaction for part of  Reliance Infratel Ltd. ,
according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  
 Reliance Communications, which paid 85.9 billion rupees
($1.8 billion) for permits to offer high-speed wireless phone
services last month, is raising funds to cut net debt that stood
at 199 billion rupees as of March 31. The company said on June 6
it will also sell a 26 percent stake in itself to a strategic or
private equity buyer to help pay debt and upgrade networks.  
 “The total portfolio for Reliance’s nearly 50,000 towers
would be close to 250 billion rupees,” said  Rahul Jain , an
analyst with Angel Broking Ltd. Selling a stake in the unit,
which builds, owns and operates telecommunication towers, will
help boost the Mumbai-based company’s valuation, Jain said.  
 Shares in Reliance Communications  rose  4.3 percent to
186.80 rupees, its highest closing price since Jan. 20. India’s
benchmark Sensex index rose 0.4 percent.  
 Reliance Communications’ net debt at the end of March was
down from 226 billion rupees a year earlier. The company hasn’t
said how much debt it used to fund the purchase of wireless
phone permits in May.  
 Infratel Buyers  
 Likely buyers for its Reliance Infratel unit are Anil’s
brother  Mukesh Ambani ’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. , and U.S.-based
 Crown Castle International Corp. , Jain said.  
 Manoj Warrier , a spokesman for Reliance Industries, which
entered India’s crowded telecom field this month by agreeing to
pay 48 billion rupees for control of Infotel Broadband Services
Ltd., wasn’t immediately available for comment.  
 Calls to the office of  Jay Brown , chief financial officer
of Crown Castle International in Houston, weren’t immediately
returned.  
 GTL Infrastructure Ltd. , India’s largest independent
operator of mobile-phone towers, is in talks for a possible deal
with Reliance Communications to buy Reliance Infratel, CNBC TV-
18 television channel reported yesterday, citing people it
didn’t identify.  
 Shares  of GTL rose as much as 5.5 percent to 42 rupees in
Mumbai trading today before closing at 40.55 rupees.  
 GTL doesn’t comment on “speculation,” spokesman Vikas
Arora said, when asked about the report.  
 Price Competition  
 Reliance Communications’ proposed sale of a stake in its
phone tower unit comes as revenue from the nation’s mobile-phone
services industry is poised to fall 22 percent this year after
declining 25 percent in 2009, according to Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 Price competition has cut call rates to less than one U.S.
cent a minute, it said. Only Pakistan and Bangladesh have lower
average revenue per customer than India, the world’s second-
largest mobile phone market, Merrill Lynch said.  
 If Reliance Communications “is able to sell a 50-odd
percent stake in the company, it may get incremental cash of 100
billion to 120 billion rupees,” which could help it pay down
debt and fund its new 3G network, Angel Broking’s Jain said.
“Things are tough for the industry still,” he said.  
 ‘Substantial Future Demand’  
 Reliance Communications’ board predicts “likely
substantial future demand for telecom infrastructure across the
country,” according to the June 14 statement. It attributed the
growing demand to new entrants to the industry.  
 Reliance Infratel has assets including 50,000 towers, and a
fiber-optic network that reaches 25,000 towns and 600,000
villages. Current customers of Reliance Infratel include Aircel
Ltd.,  Idea Cellular Ltd. , and the Indian unit of Newbury,
England based Vodafone Group Plc.  
 Regarding a separate plan to sell shares in Reliance
Communications, the company is seeking an “appropriate premium
to the prevailing market price” and will “examine and pursue
other appropriate strategic combination or consolidation
opportunities,” Mumbai-based Reliance said in an e-mailed
statement on June 6.  
 While the Indian company didn’t name possible bidders,
Emirates Telecommunications Corp., known as Etisalat, on June 7
said Reliance Communications is among opportunities it is
“studying” in India.  
 GTL also agreed in January to buy 17,500 transmission sites
from Aircel Ltd. for 84 billion rupees to help it double its
network in India. American Tower Corp.’s Indian subsidiary in
February agreed to acquire the Essar Group’s tower unit for
about $430 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ketaki Gokhale  in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        