-- Ex-Deutsche Telekom CEO, Former Chairman Won't Be Charged in Spying Case
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-06-14T14:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/ricke-zumwinkel-won-t-be-charged-in-deutsche-telekom-spy-scandal-probe.html

          
          
             Former  Deutsche Telekom AG  Chairman
 Klaus Zumwinkel  and former Chief Executive Officer  Kai-Uwe Ricke 
won’t be charged in a probe over spying on journalists and board
members at Europe’s largest phone company.  
 Prosecutors in Bonn don’t have enough evidence to prove
Ricke and Zumwinkel’s knew about reviews of phone data at
Deutsche Telekom at the time they took place,  Friedrich Apostel ,
a spokesman for prosecutors, said today. Charges will be filed
against four people, including a former security manager at
Deutsche Telekom and the head of a private security company.  
 “People will say that we are hanging the small guys here
and allowing the big ones to go free,” said Apostel. “That’s
totally inappropriate. The law requires us for good reason to
exactly prove any allegation or drop the case.”  
 Prosecutors have been looking into allegations that
Deutsche Telekom hired a company to study phone records of
journalists, executives and supervisory  board members  to find
the sources of news leaks. Prosecutors searched offices of
Deutsche Telekom and its T-Mobile unit in May 2008. The homes of
Ricke and Zumwinkel were raided 10 months later.  
 The decision to drop the case is “delightful,” Zumwinkel
said in a statement. The decision was expected, Ricke said in a
separate statement. He said he never knew that illicit methods
were used and he never asked anyone to employ such methods.  
 ‘Accept the Decision’  
 Deutsche Telekom, which is seeking damages of 1 million
euros ($1.2 million) each from Ricke and Zumwinkel, “has to
accept the decision,” said  Mark Nierwetberg , a spokesman for
the Bonn-based company.  
 Prosecutors charged the former security manager and two
other Deutsche Telekom  employees  as well as the head of a
private security company with violations of data protection and
telecommunications secrecy laws. The former security manager was
also charged with breach of trust. The head of the private
security company was also charged with extortion, said Apostel.  
 Apostel declined to give the names of the defendants.  
 After confidential information appeared in the press in
January 2005, Ricke, then CEO, asked the security manager to
find out who had leaked it. Phone data was collected with the
help of two employees, who were also charged, Apostel said.  
 A Berlin-based security company was asked to analyze the
data of about 60 people, including journalists and members of
Deutsche Telekom’s supervisory board, he said.  
 Prosecutors didn’t find enough evidence to prove Ricke and
Zumwinkel knew that illegal methods were used, said Apostel.
While documents show both were informed on Oct. 31, 2005, about
the actions, there are no indications they knew the wrongdoing
was continuing. In their view, the actions had already stopped,
said Apostel.  
 Reinhard Kowalewsky, one of the journalists who was spied
on, said he may appeal today’s decision.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Bonn via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        