-- RIM, Boeing, Warner, Apple, Bayh-Dole, Evergreen : Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-06-14T11:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/rim-boeing-warner-apple-bayh-dole-evergreen-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd. , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, agreed to pay  Motorola Inc.  an
undisclosed amount to settle their battle over patents to
wireless technology.  
 RIM will make an upfront payment to Motorola and pay
royalties for future use of the technology, the companies said
in a joint statement June 11, without providing specific terms.
The companies also agreed to license each other’s patents
related to industry standards for wireless phones and e-mail.  
 RIM and Motorola, which is preparing to spin off its
handset business, have been suing each other since a license
agreement that ran from 2003 to 2007 expired and the two were
unable to reach a new deal. The litigation included cases in the
U.K., a dispute over imports before the U.S. International Trade
Commission and a half-dozen lawsuits in federal court in Texas.  
 Disputes among makers of smartphones, which can surf the
Web and play video, have increased as sales of the devices
outpace the rest of the handset market. Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
RIM’s BlackBerry overtook Motorola in global unit sales last
quarter, according to researcher ISuppli Corp. Motorola makes
the Droid, which runs on Google Inc.’s Android software.  
 “It behooves them to come to terms and settle,” said
 Ashok Kumar , an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw Inc. in New York,
who has a “market perform” rating on RIM. “The reality of the
market is that eventually they will be stepping on each other’s
toes.”  
 RIM, which had $15 billion in sales last year, said in a
regulatory filing that the settlement isn’t expected to affect
its fiscal first-quarter results “or to have a material impact
on operating results going forward.”  
 RIM last year agreed to pay $267.5 million to end a patent
dispute with mobile-phone software maker Visto Corp., and in
2006 paid $612.5 million to settle a suit filed by patent owner
NTP Inc. over e-mail technology.  
 RIM is also  fighting  a patent complaint before the ITC
brought by Eastman Kodak Co. over digital-camera technology, and
last month, FlashPoint Technology Inc. filed a case against RIM,
Nokia Oyj, HTC Corp. and LG Electronics Inc. over focus and
flash settings in cameras. RIM is also part of a case involving
Samsung Electronics Co. memory chips used in the BlackBerry.  
 In all three cases, the trade agency has the power to block
imports of products found to infringe U.S. patents.  
 The most recent development in the Motorola and RIM dispute
came in February when the ITC said it would look into claims
that BlackBerry devices infringe five patents.  
 Motorola filed the complaint Jan. 22, targeting the
BlackBerry Pearl, Curve, Bold, Storm and Tour, as well as their
battery packs. The patents relate to some early stage
innovations developed by Motorola in areas such as Wi-Fi access,
application management, user interface and power management.  
 RIM’s share of industrywide sales climbed to 3.6 percent,
and Apple’s rose to 3.04 percent last quarter, according to El
Segundo, California-based ISuppli. Motorola’s market share
during the period shrank to 3 percent from 3.6 percent.
Smartphone sales may climb 46 percent this year worldwide, more
than triple the pace of the overall market, according to
researcher Gartner Inc.  
 The ITC case is in the Matter of Wireless Communication
System Server Software, 337-706, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington). The civil cases are 08cv1545; 10cv480;
09cv72; 09cv464; 08cv317; and 08cv284, all U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  
 Genzyme Sues Anchen to Halt Generic Version of Kidney Drug  
 Genzyme Corp. , a biotechnology company that develops drugs
for rare chronic diseases, sued generic drugmaker Anchen
Pharmaceuticals Inc. alleging infringement of a patent for the
kidney drug Hectorol. The drug is used to treat advanced kidney
disease.  
 Anchen, based in Irvine, California, is seeking  U.S. Food
and Drug Administration  approval to sell copies of Hectorol,
according to a complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware. Genzyme wants approval blocked until the
5,602,116 patent expires in 2014.  
 “The sale or offer for sale of Anchen’s proposed generic
products” would induce infringement, Genzyme’s  lawyers  said in
court papers. Genzyme is entitled to “exclusivity” under
patent law, they said.  
 “Anchen has no comment at this time” on the lawsuit,
spokesman John Mooney said in an e-mailed message.  
 Genzyme, which reported sales of $4.52 billion last year,
said last month it would pay $175 million to the U.S. government
for manufacturing violations in a Boston plant.  
 Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme is represented in
the patent suit by  Jack B. Blumenfeld  of Wilmington’s  Morris,
Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP .  
 The case is Genzyme Corp. v. Anchen Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
10CV512, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  
 Evergreen Trade Secret Claims Against Boeing Stand, Judge Says  
 Although a federal judge in Seattle dismissed breach of
contract claims brought against  Boeing Co.  by one of its
suppliers, he left standing the trade-secret misappropriation
claims.  
 Evergreen Holdings Inc.’s Evergreen International Airlines
unit sued Boeing in federal court in Seattle in April. In the
complaint the airline said its contract to ferry components of
Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner passenger jet was broken without cause
in favor of Atlas Air Inc. of Purchase, New York.  
 Closely held Evergreen of McMinnville, Oregon, also claimed
that the Chicago-based aerospace company impermissibly released
confidential aircraft-performance information to Atlas.  
 Disclosure of this data would give valuable confidential
information regarding Evergreen’s fleet practices to Atlas, a
competitor, according to court papers.  
 In a June 9 order, U.S. District Judge John C. Coughenour
said that while Evergreen failed to state a claim for breach of
contract, the company did adequately plead that Boeing had
violated confidentiality provisions of its contract with
Evergreen. The judge said that part of the suit can go forward.  
 Evergreen is represented by  C. Dana Hobart  and  Mary H. Chu 
from Los Angeles-based  Hennigan Bennett & Dorman LLP , and
 Allyssa Jayne Hale  and  Donald H. Mullins  from Seattle’s  Badgley
Mullins Law Group PLLC .  
 Chicago-based Boeing is represented by  Cori Gordon Moore 
and  Michael Haldon Himes  of Seattle’s  Perkins Coie LLP , and  John
C. O’Quinn ,  Daniel Aaron Bress  and  Craig S. Primis  of Chicago’s
 Kirkland & Ellis LLP .  
 The case is Evergreen International Airlines Inc. v. Boeing
Co., 2:10-cv-00568-JCC, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Washington (Seattle).  
 Copyright  
 Warner Says No to Release of Unofficial World Cup Song  
 Warner Music Group Corp.  has barred the release and
uploading of an unofficial World Cup anthem originally written
for a children’s soccer team in London, the U.K. Press
Association’s Community Newswire website  reported .  
 The song, “There May be Glory Ahead,” is a reworking of
Irving Berlin’s “Let’s Face the Music and Dance,” recorded by
the  Dulwich Ukulele Club  as a fundraiser for the Athenlay
Football Club, according to the website.  
 New York-based Warner gave no reason for its refusal and
didn’t respond to inquiries from the Community Newswire.  
 The  video  of the ukulele club’s performance of the song
with the kids from the team uploaded to  Google Inc. ’s YouTube
video-sharing website received more than 10,000 hits by June 11.  
 Trademark  
 Apple Faces Trademark Infringement Suit Over ‘iAd’ Platform  
 Despite Steve Jobs’s contention that Apple Inc. has
commitments of more than $60 million for its iAd platform, the
Cupertino, California-based company may have to get a trademark-
infringement suit out of the way first.  
 Apple was sued May 21 by Innovate Media Group LLP of Costa
Mesa, California, owner of two registered U.S. trademarks for
“iAd.”  
 Innovate, founded in 2002 by  Yahoo! Inc.  alumnus John
Cecil, registered the trademarks for use with Internet
advertising in October 2008, according to the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The company has used the terms
since 2006, it said in the complaint filed in federal court in
Los Angeles.  
 Jobs, Apple’s chief executive officer, revealed the iAd
program at an April 8 press conference. Afterwards, Innovate
contacted Jobs and Quattro Wireless, a company acquired by Apple
in January that produces ads for mobile phones.  
 Innovate informed both Jobs and Quattro of its trademarks,
and received no response, the company said in its court filings.  
 Instead, the computer company continued to make
unauthorized use of the mark, including at a new website,
www.iadtoday.com. That website informs readers that “iAd is
Apple’s mobile advertising platform for targeting iPhone, iPad
and iPod touch users.”  
 Innovate claims that Apple’s use of the “iAd” mark “is
just another sequence in a pattern of conduct by Apple, of
ignoring and tramping the intellectual property rights of
others.”  
 The complaint noted that “iPhone,” “iPad” and even the
name “Apple” were all marks held by third parties, “which
Apple used without the owners’ permission, and ultimately took
over.” Innovate made reference to trademark disputes with the
Beatles-founded record label Apple Corp. and  Cisco Systems
Inc. ’s iPhone mark.  
 Innovate claimed it has suffered “irreparable harm” and
notes that Apple has applied for to register “iAd” as a
trademark in Canada. It asked the court to bar Apple from using
“iAd,” and for an award of money damages and all profits
realized by Apple relative to its alleged infringement.  
 Additionally, Innovate requested awards of litigation costs
and attorney fees, and extra damages for what it said is
deliberate infringement by Apple.  
 Apple hasn’t yet made any court filings in response to
Innovate’s allegations.  
 Innovate is represented by  Laura D. Castner ,  Olivier A.
Tallieu ,  Sarah S. Brooks  and  Yuri Mikulka  of Los Angeles-based
 Zuber & Taillieu LLP .  
 The case is Innovate Media Group LLC v. Apple Inc, 2:10 cv-
03866-SVW-JC, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  
 University Technology Transfer  
 Bayh-Dole Act Needs to be Reformed, House Subcommittee Told  
 A subcommittee of the U.S. House of Representatives’
Science and Technology Committee heard a recommendation for a
major restructuring of 30-year-old legislation that gave
universities and non-profits title to IP developed from research
funded with federal dollars.  
 Speaking to the Subcommittee on Research & Science
Education on technology transfer July 4,  Neil Kane  of  Advanced
Diamond Technologies Inc.  suggested that the  1980 Bayh-Dole Act 
be modified to require that any license agreement be publicly
accessible. “Universities will vigorously oppose it, but it
will level the playing field and reduce transaction costs across
the board,” Kane said in  a prepared statement  to the committee.  
 He said that in order to attract private capital, licenses
to the university-developed IP “need to be exclusive, even if
they are for a limited field of use.”  
 Kane also recommended that each university publish its
license template and financial expectations for license
agreements. Presently the process is “opaque,” he said, giving
universities the advantage due to “their knowledge of what
others have paid for their technologies.”  
 He claimed that the cost of executing licenses from
universities and federal laboratories is too high, and “deep-
pocketed investors interested in starting a company” will walk
away because they couldn’t secure the rights to the technology
on “reasonable (in their eyes) license terms.” The
institutions “always underestimate the time and money needed to
turn their innovations into commercial products.”  
 Kane, whose company was spun off from technology developed
 at Argonne National Laboratory , is a former regional business
development manager for  Microsoft Corp. , and was the executive
director of the Illinois Technology Enterprise Center at
Argonne.  
 Others who testified at the hearing include Keith L.
Crandell of Chicago-based Arch Venture Partners; W. Mark
Crowell, executive director and associate vice president for
innovation partnerships and commercialization at the University
of Virginia and past president of the  Association of University
Technology Managers ; Wayne Watkins, associate vice president for
research at the University of Akron; Lesa Mitchell, vice
president of Advancing Innovation at the Ewing Marion Kauffman
Foundation; and Thomas W. Peterson, assistant director,
Directorate for Engineering of the National Science Foundation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        