-- Rubber Climbs for Third Day on Oil's Advance, Outlook for Improved Demand
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-06-14T07:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/rubber-climbs-for-third-day-on-oil-s-advance-outlook-for-improved-demand.html

          
          
             Rubber advanced for a third day,
climbing to a one-week high, as costlier crude oil, a weaker yen
and signs the global economic recovery remains intact boosted
optimism that demand for the commodity used in tires may grow.  
 Futures in Tokyo advanced as much as 3.8 percent, extending
the 1.8 percent climb in the previous two sessions, after
Japan’s large manufacturers said business conditions improved
from three months ago, according to a government report today.  
 Crude oil advanced in New York on speculation that
sustained growth in the U.S. economy will boost fuel demand. The
Japanese currency fell for a third day against the euro on signs
the global economic recovery is gaining momentum.  
 “Sentiment remains favorable as signs of global economic
expansion spur speculation demand for tires will continue
growing,” said  Chaiwat Muenmee , an analyst at DS Futures Co.
“Crude oil’s rally, trading above $74 a barrel, and the
weakening of the Japanese yen supported the rubber market.”  
 Rubber for November rose as much as 10 yen to 274.8 yen a
kilogram ($2,990 a metric ton), the highest level since June 7,
before settling at 274.8 yen on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  
 Japan’s large manufacturers’  sentiment  was 10 points,
compared with 4.3 points last quarter, the government said in
the report. The survey asks respondents whether conditions
improved from the previous quarter, and a positive number means
optimists outnumber pessimists.  
 Crude’s Gain  
 Crude for July delivery rose as much as 2 percent to $75.25
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, making synthetic rubber more expensive. The yen fell
against all 16 of its major counterparts, making yen-based
rubber contracts cheaper for holders of other currencies.  
 Natural-rubber inventories monitored by the Shanghai
exchange totaled to 17,881 tons, based on a survey of 10
warehouses in Shanghai, Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin,
the bourse said on June 11. That compares with 151,832 tons on
Jan. 21, the highest level since November 2004, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Speculation that Chinese buyers will increase purchases
because of the lower stockpiles fueled today’s gains, Roka
Komiya, a trader at Marubeni Corp., said by phone from Singapore.  
 “Some Chinese buyers have come into the market since last
week,” Komiya said. “China’s stockpile situation is pushing up
the market.”  
 The Shanghai Futures Exchange is closed today for a holiday,
and will reopen on June 17. The September-delivery contract
climbed 1.8 percent to settle at 21,825 yuan ($3,195) a ton on
June 11.  
 “Further gains in Tocom prices may be limited as increasing
supplies from Thailand are still pressuring the market,”
Chaiwat said from Bangkok. Output of ribbed smoked sheet RSS-3
rubber has averaged 200 tons a day this month, compared with
slightly more than 100 tons a day in May, Chaiwat said.  
 Cash prices in Thailand advanced, driven by demand from
local tire manufactures as the domestic automotive sector is
expected to remain robust until the third quarter.  
 The free-on-board price of RSS-3 grade for July delivery
gained 0.4 percent to 114.35 baht ($3.53) a kilogram today, the
 Rubber Institute of Thailand  said on its website. It reviews the
price daily and issues new data in the afternoon.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        