-- S. Korea Needs `Balanced Approach' to Stimulus Exit, Finance Minister Says
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-06-14T08:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/s-korea-needs-balanced-approach-to-stimulus-exit-finance-minister-says.html

          
          
             South Korea needs a “balanced
approach” to its exit from stimulus policies as the economy
grows faster than expected even as the European debt crisis
poses risks, Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said.  
 Asia’s fourth-largest economy will likely continue its
recovery, helped by rising exports and a revival in domestic
consumption and investment, Yoon said at a meeting with
economists in Seoul today. Still, Europe’s debt woes may hurt
the country’s exports to the region, he said.  
 “For the second half, balance is most important for
policy,” Yoon said. “We have to sustain the economic growth
while curbing potential inflation pressures.”  
 The Bank of Korea kept its  benchmark interest rate 
unchanged for a 16th month on June 10, refraining from following
India, Malaysia and Australia in raising borrowing costs even
after the economy expanded more than initially estimated last
quarter. While Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said last week that the
bank will focus more on “price stability,” the government has
said it’s “too early” to raise rates.  
 “It seems the government is beginning to admit that the
rates can’t stay at the current crisis level for long,” said
 Park Jong Yeon , an analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co.
in Seoul. “Rates may rise as early as in August, given the fast
economic growth pace and building inflation pressures.”  
 The heads of nine domestic economic research institutes
gave the finance minister a mixed view on whether the economy
was ready for a rate increase, Yoon Jong Won, director general
of the Finance Ministry’s Economic Policy Bureau, said at a
media briefing after the meeting.  
 Gross domestic product rose 2.1 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, compared with an April
estimate of 1.8 percent. The central bank left the seven-day
repurchase rate at a record-low 2 percent this month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at   eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        