-- Sara Lee Says CEO Barnes Recovering From Stroke Suffered `a Few Weeks Ago'
-- Burt Helm
-- 2010-06-14T20:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/sara-lee-says-ceo-barnes-recovering-from-stroke-suffered-a-few-weeks-ago-.html

          
          
             Sara Lee Corp.  Chief Executive
Officer  Brenda Barnes  said she is recovering from a stroke
suffered “a few weeks ago,” and the company will provide an
update on her plans by Aug. 12.  
 Barnes, 56, has been on medical leave since May 14.  Marcel Smits , executive vice president and chief financial officer, has
been serving as interim CEO of the Downers Grove, Illinois-based
food company.  
 “I suffered a stroke a few weeks ago, and I am now in the
process of recuperating,” Barnes said today in a company
statement. “I’m pleased to see how effectively our interim team
is performing in executing our ongoing strategy and moving the
company forward during my absence.”  
 Smits, acting Chairman  James Crown  and  Christopher John Fraleigh , CEO of North American retail and food service, are
overseeing the company’s operations including the  sale  of Sara
Lee’s international household-products businesses, a company
spokesman, Jon Harris, said in a May 14 interview.  
 “We know what the situation is, but it’s still not clear
if she will return or when,” said analyst  John Baumgartner  at
Telsey Advisory Group in New York in a phone interview. “I have
been telling investors that Marcel is well equipped for the job
whether it’s temporary or permanent.” His 12-month target price
is as much as $19 per share.  
 Sara Lee spokesman  Mike Cummins  said today in an interview
that Barnes suffered the stroke “just before” the May 14
announcement of her medical leave. He declined to comment on
Barnes’ condition, or whether she was recuperating at home or in
a hospital.  
 Selling Divisions  
 Sara Lee, which markets the Jimmy Dean, Hillshire Farm and
Ball Park meat brands, has agreed to sell its body-care business
to Unilever and its air-freshener business to  Procter & Gamble
Co.  for a combined 1.59 billion euros ($1.95 billion), to focus
on food and beverages. The company has said both transactions
will close this year.  
 The Unilever sale will be reviewed in greater detail by the
European Commission to determine the deal’s full impact in some
markets. The London- and Rotterdam-based company said May 25
that it now expects the purchase to be completed in the fourth
quarter, later than the third-quarter schedule previously
announced.  
 Analyst  Timothy Ramey  of D.A. Davidson & Co. in Lake
Oswego, Oregon, said in a June 11 note to clients that Smits
might be looking for acquisitions to expand Sara Lee’s coffee
and meat businesses. Ramey recommends holding the shares.  
 “We’re certain that Sara Lee would do a deal in meats if
the right opportunity surfaced,” Ramey said, citing  Kraft Foods
Inc. ’s Oscar Mayer brand and closely held  Boar’s Head Provisions
Co.  as possible targets. Kraft spokesman  Michael Mitchell 
declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Sarasota, Florida-based
Boar’s Head didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  
 Sara Lee  rose  15 cents to $14:78 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has increased 21
percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net ;
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        