-- Saudi Inflation Accelerated to 12-Month High in May on Fuel, Housing Costs
-- Zahraa Alkhalisi
-- 2010-06-14T08:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/saudi-inflation-accelerated-to-12-month-high-in-may-on-fuel-housing-costs.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabian inflation accelerated
to a 12-month high last month as housing, fuel and the cost of
goods and services increased in the largest Arab economy.  
 Inflation picked up to 5.4 percent in May from 4.9 percent
in April, the government’s Central Department of Statistics said
in data posted on its website today. The inflation rate in May
rose 0.6 percent from the previous month, it said.  
 It’s the fifth month that inflation has accelerated in Saudi
Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter. This increase doesn’t
warrant a “different course of action” in the kingdom’
monetary policy, central bank Governor  Muhammad al-Jasser  said
in May.  
 “Inflation, while elevated compared with other Gulf
states, is unlikely to pose risks in the medium term,”  John Sfakianakis , chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi, wrote in a
report released today. “Inflationary pressures are stemming
from domestic factors, including rent and higher goods and
services costs.”  
 Inflation across Gulf Arab states slowed last year from
2008 records as the financial crisis lowered housing costs and
food prices across the region. Inflation in the kingdom eased to
5.1 percent in 2009 from 9.9 percent in 2008 as crude prices
fell from a peak of almost $147 a barrel and the global economic
crisis crimped consumer demand.  
 The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency last year cut the
repurchase rate to 2 percent, the lowest since 2004, and the
reverse repurchase rate to 0.25 percent as the global credit
crunch led to a slump in oil prices, crimping growth.  
 “The imported element is not currently a factor given the
strength of the U.S. dollar to which the riyal is pegged,”
Sfakianakis wrote. “The dollar rose to a 15-month high versus a
basket of major currencies in early June, making imports from
Europe -- which account for 30 percent of the total - more
competitive.”  
 The dollar has strengthened 8.5 percent against its most-
traded peers this year, according to Bloomberg Currency
Correlation-Weighted Indices, while the euro has dropped 9.5
percent by the same measure.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahraa Alkhalisi  in Dubai at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net ;  Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
8155 or  gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        