-- Sell Losing World Cup Nations as Stocks Suffer Disappointment, Study Says
-- Whitney Kisling
-- 2010-06-14T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/sell-losing-world-cup-nations-as-stocks-share-teams-defeats-study-says.html

          
          
             Traders and money managers may want
to watch the World Cup, which began in South Africa last week,
for more than just the soccer.  
 Stock indexes in nations kicked out of major tournaments
lag behind their average returns during trading the day after
the loss, according to a 2007 Journal of Finance  study  by Diego
Garcia, a professor of finance at the University of North
Carolina. Euphoria over victories might encourage investors in
winning countries to buy shares, said  Keith Wirtz , chief
investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management Inc. in
Cincinnati.  
 “People are going to feel better and they’ll spend more
and enjoy things more,” said Wirtz, who oversees $18 billion.
“That helps the economy and means higher stocks, higher
profits.”  
 Stocks around the world could use the help. More than $6
trillion has been erased from equities since April 15 amid
concern that Europe’s debt crisis and China’s curbs on lending
will slow the global economic recovery. Benchmark indexes for
nations such as Greece, Spain and Italy have fallen more than 15
percent.  
 Jules Rimet  
 Bearish bets may prove most successful given that 31 out of
the 32 nations competing for the Jules Rimet trophy will fall
short of the championship. A loss in the second phase of the
World Cup, when teams are ejected when they lose a game, causes
a nation’s stock index to perform 0.49 percentage points worse
than average the day after the match, said Garcia, who co-wrote
the paper with Alex Edmans, currently at the Wharton School at
the University of Pennsylvania, and Oyvind Norli of the
Norwegian School of Management. The study showed no effect from
wins.  
 “For countries where soccer is very important, the point
effect we find is even bigger,” Garcia said.  
 Investors may want to consider a bearish bet against  South
Africa’s stocks  regardless of how the host nation’s team fares,
according to  Jon Compton , managing director at Bedlam Asset
Management in London. That’s because the additional attention
the country is enjoying will fade after the final whistle is
blown July 11, while investment will dry up, he said.  
 South Africa spent almost 30 billion rand ($3.9 billion)
building stadiums and upgrading transport and telecoms
infrastructure to prepare for the opening match on June 11,
which the host team tied 1-1 with Mexico.  
 Drink Beer  
 “The pattern with all major global events is that the
markets in the host country are lower six months later,” said
Compton, who helps manage $700 million. “One way to play this
would be to short the market of every country holding a big
sporting event, two weeks after it’s over.”  
 Compton said he expects the shares of online-gaming
companies and  brewers  to rise as people around the world place
bets on the matches, then drink beer as they watch.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  declines an average of 1.7
percent during the event, according to Bespoke Investment Group
LLC in Harrison, New York, which looked at performance during
World Cups going back to the first competition in 1930. Over the
three months after the event, the S&P 500 falls an average of
0.4 percent.  
 That compares with a 1.3 percent decline during the
tournament for the  MSCI World Index  of stocks in 24 developed
nations, which then decreases an average of 4.3 percent over the
next three months, Bespoke found, using data back to 1970.  
 3-D Matches  
 Jason Weisberg , director of institutional trading at
Seaport Securities in New York, says the World Cup should
provide a boost to companies that are affiliated with the event
including  Nike Inc. , the largest maker of athletic shoes, and 
Walt Disney Co. , the world’s biggest media company. Beaverton,
Oregon-based Nike is using the tournament in advertising
campaigns, while Disney, based in Burbank, California, owns
ESPN, the channel that’s screening the matches in 3-D.  
 The S&P 500 has retreated 10 percent since its high this
year on April 23 as soaring borrowing costs in indebted European
countries such as Greece and Portugal rattled markets and China
took steps to cool its economy. If nothing else, the competition
may provide some relief after the financial turmoil of recent
weeks, Weisberg said.  
 “It’s going to be a welcome distraction from all the
negative headlines,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joanna Ossinger  in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     England's goalkeeper Robert Green reacts after missing a goal during their Group C first round 2010 World Cup football match at Royal Bafokeng stadium in Rustenburg. Photographer: Hoang Dinh Nam/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Siphiwe Tshabalala of South Africa celebrates scoring the first goal during the 2010 World Cup match between South Africa and Mexico in Johannesburg. Photographer: Christof Koepsel/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
