-- Senate's Lincoln Considers Compromise on Swaps-Desk Provision
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-06-14T22:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/senate-s-lincoln-considering-compromise-language-on-swaps-desk-provision.html

          
          
             Senator  Blanche Lincoln  may modify
her proposed rules on derivatives by giving commercial banks two
years to push out their swaps trading desks into subsidiaries.  
 The compromise proposal also would allow the Federal
Reserve to provide system-wide emergency assistance to swaps
dealers, according to a draft obtained by Bloomberg News and
confirmed by Lincoln’s office today.  
 The changes are aimed at clarifying questions about the
 original language  and don’t pull back from the purpose of the
measure, which is to separate commercial banking from
derivatives trading, Courtney Rowe, a spokeswoman for the
Arkansas Democrat, said today in an e-mailed statement.  
 The plan “is a strong provision that will protect
depositors and get banks back to the business of banking,” Rowe
said. “These clarifications will clear up any questions that
exist about the intent of the provision without compromising the
legislation.”  
 The revised language would give federal banking regulators
two years to determine the impact of the measure on mortgage
lending, small business lending, jobs and capital formation. The
proposal doesn’t provide for any action after the study.  
 “It gives people more time to organize their affairs to
react to this provision,” said Ian Cuillerier, a structured
finance lawyer at White & Case in New York who has been tracking
the legislation. “This is not an easy provision for banks to
deal with.”  
 $28 Billion  
 Banking officials said the new proposal would do little to
address their concerns. The five largest U.S. swaps dealers --
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  --
made $28 billion from trading operations last year, according to
reports collected by the Federal Reserve and people familiar
with the matter.  
 “The restrictions under the new proposal are not much
different than complete divestment,” said  Scott Talbott , senior
vice president of government affairs for the Financial Services
Roundtable, a Washington-based trade group.  
 The revised language would clarify that banks with access
to Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. guarantees and the Federal
Reserve’s discount lending window would be allowed to hold a
separately capitalized swap dealer in an affiliate of the  bank
holding company .  
 Reconciling the Bills  
 The proposed changes attempt to address issues raised by
banking regulators, including FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair , who
said they were concerned that the original provision would keep
banks from hedging their interest rate or currency risks. The
revised language would specify that commercial banks could make
use of swaps for those purposes as participants in the market
without losing their federal guarantees, as long as they didn’t
operate a swaps-trading desk.  
 The derivatives language is one part of the  larger
financial regulatory overhaul  being completed by House and
Senate negotiators, who will continue to meet this week to
reconcile their bills. Congressional Democrats said they expect
to have legislation ready for President  Barack Obama ’s signature
by July 4.  
 The proposal remains in its early stages and hasn’t been
presented to lawmakers, according to a Senate aide. Negotiators
are currently scheduled to take up the derivatives language in
the final days of the conference committee, said the aide, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks aren’t public.  
 Proposed in April  
 Lincoln, who is chairman of the Senate  Agriculture
Committee , in April proposed separating swaps trading from
commercial banking. She has advocated for the rule in the face
of opposition from federal regulators, lawmakers and banks.  
 The banking industry focused much of its lobbying efforts
on removing the provision, including a personal appeal to
lawmakers by JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon .
Banking officials and regulators including Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said the original proposal could introduce more risk
into the system by eliminating a primary hedging mechanism and
could restrict bank capital at a time of economic stress.  
 Derivatives, such as stock options, are financial
instruments based on the value of another security or benchmark.
Some instruments, including contracts that insured mortgage-
backed bonds, have been blamed for fueling a financial crisis
that led to the worst recession since the Great Depression.  
 Consumer advocates and labor groups -- many of the same
people who opposed Lincoln in the primary election battle she
won last week -- have supported the provision from its
inception. Lincoln has picked up other high-profile support in
recent days, including from Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  and  Thomas Hoenig , the president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Blanche Lincoln, a Democrat from Arkansas, in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
