-- Slovak Opposition Parties Seek to Form New Cabinet as President Taps Fico
-- Radoslav Tomek
-- 2010-06-14T11:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/slovak-president-officially-asks-premier-fico-to-try-to-form-government.html

          
          
             Slovak parties that pledge to cut
spending said they expect to put together a majority coalition
within days, even as President  Ivan Gasparovic  gave Prime
Minister  Robert Fico  the first chance to form a government.  
 Fico’s Smer party took 34.8 percent of the votes in June 12
elections, more than double the opposition SDKU, which finished
second. Gasparovic, who Fico backed for re-election last year,
said today in Bratislava, the nation’s capital, that the results
earned Fico the right to try and form a Cabinet.  
 SDKU, Freedom and Solidarity, the Christian Democrats and
Most-Hid won 79 of parliament’s 150 seats and have said they
won’t work with Fico because of his social spending plans and
nationalist stance toward the ethnic-Hungarian minority. Fico
said today he would try until June 23 to form a two-party
government and then step aside if he can’t.  
 “It’s absolutely impossible for Fico to get a partner to
govern with,” said  Grigori Meseznikov , head of the Institute
for Public Affairs in Bratislava. “Nobody will team up with him
because it would be suicide for that party.”  
 Gasparovic said he asked Fico because it was tradition that
the largest party has the first chance to form a government. It
would be “unjust” to do otherwise, even if the “mathematics”
of parliament pointed to a different result, he said during a
news conference in Bratislava.  
 Coming Days  
 Freedom and Solidarity, also known by its Slovak initials
SaS, sees the possibility of forming a coalition in the coming
days, party leader  Richard Sulik  said at a news conference in
Bratislava. He said his party would want the post of finance
minister in any Cabinet it participated in.  
 Slovakia, a euro-member nation, will see its budget deficit
swell to 7.4 percent of  gross domestic product  this year
compared with a target of 5.5 percent, unless the new government
takes “significant” steps to reduce the shortfall, according
to a survey of economists by the Club of Economic Analysts in
Bratislava. Fico had promised not to raise taxes and keep the
welfare state intact.  
 SDKU has called for a constitutional law to prevent state
debt from rising above some pre-set level. The party ruled
together with the Christian Democrats before Fico took power in
2006 and introduced a 19 percent flat-tax that helped attract
investment from companies such as KIA Motors Corp.  
 “One of the most pressing tasks for the new government
will be fiscal consolidation,”  Michal Musak , an analyst at
Slovenska Sporitelna AS in Bratislava, a unit of Austria’s Erste
Group, said in a note to investors today.  
 Economic Recovery  
 SaS and Most-Hid were created in 2009 and pledged to keep
Slovakia from sliding into a Greek-style debt crisis. Most-Hid,
a party representing ethnic-Hungarians, has clashed with Fico
over minority rights. About 10 percent of the country’s 5.4
million people are of Hungarian descent.  
 The Slovak economy is emerging from recession, with the
Finance Ministry forecasting economic growth will reach 3.2
percent this year after a 4.7 percent contraction in 2009. The
revival is being driven by exports, such as cars made locally by
Kia and Volkswagen AG.  
 Slovakia plans to sell as much as 8 billion euros ($9.65
billion) of debt this year, the most since at least 2004.
Slovakia is rated A+ by Standard & Poor’s, the agency’s fifth
highest grade and on par with Italy. Moody’s Investors Service
rates it A1, also the fifth-best assessment.  
 The Slovak Debt and Liquidity Management Agency said today
that the country sold 110 million euros of 3.5 percent
government bonds due in 2016, with bids totaling 220 million
euros.  
 The securities were sold at an average yield of 3.372
percent, while the minimum and maximum yields accepted today
were 3.25 percent and 3.45 percent, respectively. The bonds
debuted on Feb. 22 with minimum and maximum yields of 3.45
percent and 3.604 percent, respectively.  
 “Over the longer-term, a new centre-right government might
be better for bonds compared with the previous one, with regards
to its willingness to consolidate and a higher reliance on
spending cuts rather than tax hikes,” Musak said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        