-- Slovak Bond Demand Jumps on Bets New Government Will Cut Budget Deficit
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-06-14T13:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/slovak-bond-demand-jumps-on-bets-new-government-will-cut-budget-deficit.html

          
          
             Demand for Slovak government debt
almost doubled at an auction of 3.5 percent notes today from the
previous sale on speculation the next government will cut a
budget deficit that’s more than twice the euro area’s limit.  
 Slovakia sold 110 million euros ($134 million) of the bonds
due in 2016 at their fourth offering, the Debt and Liquidity
Management Agency said on its Bloomberg page. Buyers bid for 220
million euros, compared with 121.5 million euros sought at the
bond’s previous auction on May 17. The average accepted yield
was 3.372 percent, more than the 3.354 percent on May 17 and
less than the 3.584 percent at the first sale on Feb. 22.  
 Four opposition parties that pledge to cut the deficit are
seeking to form a government after winning 79 seats in the 150-
member legislature in general elections two days ago. The fiscal
gap swelled to 6.8 percent of gross domestic product last year
as the country fell into recession, exceeding the euro-area’s
limit of 3 percent.  
 “Demand was higher as some foreign investors may have seen
the election result as a positive signal for Slovak public
finances,”  Martin Koska , a bond trader at ING Bank NV in the
capital Bratislava, said by phone. “Local banks are waiting to
see what kind of budget the next government will propose.”  
 No Cooperation  
 SDKU, Freedom and Solidarity, the Christian Democrats and
Most-Hid said they won’t work with Prime Minister  Robert Fico ’s
Smer, which won the most seats, because of its social-spending
plans and nationalist stance toward the country’s ethnic-
Hungarian minority. Fico said today he will step aside if he
can’t form a Cabinet with the Slovak National Party by June 23.  
 The deficit risks missing this year’s target and the
shortfall may swell to 7.4 percent of GDP unless a new
government takes “significant” steps, according to a survey of
economists by the Club of Economic Analysts issued on June 2.  
 A likely coalition of the four opposition parties “will be
more favorable for sustainable fiscal consolidation, so the
markets may appreciate this,” said  Jaromir Sindel , an economist
at Citigroup Inc. in Prague.  
 Slovakia, which joined the euro area as its 16th member
last year, plans to sell between 6 billion euros and 8 billion
euros in state debt securities this year. Today’s auction brings
the amount issued so far to about 5.46 billion euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Radoslav Tomek  in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net .
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        