-- SocGen Is in Talks to Acquire BPCE's Marseillaise de Credit for $1 Billion
-- Anne-Sylvaine Chassany
-- 2010-06-14T16:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/societe-generale-confirms-it-s-in-talks-to-purchase-marseillaise-de-credit.html

          
          
             Societe Generale SA , France’s
second-largest bank by market value, said it is in discussions
to buy Societe Marseillaise de Credit as it seeks to expand its
retail-banking business.  
 Credit du Nord, one of Societe Generale’s retail units,
entered exclusive talks with BPCE SA to buy Marseille-based SMC
for 872 million euros ($1 billion), the Paris-based bank said
today in an e-mailed statement.  
 “The acquisition is perfectly in line with the bank’s
strategy to boost retail,” said  Eric Hazart , an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas in Paris. “The price is a little high, but
they’re paying the price of scarcity in a very attractive
region, and it saves them more than a year in terms of acquiring
customers organically.”  
 Societe Generale is looking to strengthen its retail
operations, which have lower capital requirements and steadier
revenue than investment or corporate banking. Regulators and
policy makers are looking to introduce new rules requiring banks
to hold more and better capital and liquidity reserves after the
worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  
 With SMC, “Credit du Nord will enable Societe Generale to
solidify its franchise as France’s third-largest retail bank in
terms of revenue,” Societe Generale said in the statement.  
 The transaction would free 700 million euros of capital,
which would be entirely used to reimburse funds received from
the government during the credit crisis, BCPE said in a separate
statement confirming the talks.  
 Shares Rise  
 Societe Generale  shares  rose 3.9 percent to 35 euros in
Paris trading, increasing the bank’s market value to 25.9
billion euros.  
 In December, Societe Generale agreed to pay 676 million
euros to Dexia SA to take full control of Credit du Nord, based
in Lille, northern France. SMC, founded in 1865 in Marseille,
southern France, will add 140 retail branches and 200,000
customers in the southeast of the country.  
 “The region is considered very attractive to bankers
because of its big population of retirees,” Hazart said.  
 Groupe Banque Populaire, a French mutual banking group,
bought SMC in 2008 from  HSBC Holdings Plc , for about 1.1 billion
euros, Hazart estimated. In 2009, Banque Populaire then merged
with Caisse d’Epargne, another mutual banking group with a
strong presence in the South of France.  
 “The maintenance of SMC within the group is no longer
strategic,” BPCE said today in the statement.  
 BPCE head  Francois Perol  said in November the bank is
seeking to reimburse 3 billion euros of preferred shares it
received from the French government by the end of 2013.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        