-- Somali Islamists Arrest 14 Teenagers for Watching World Cup Soccer Match
-- Hamsa Omar
-- 2010-06-14T12:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/somali-islamists-arrest-14-teenagers-for-watching-world-cup-soccer-match.html

          
          
             Islamist insurgents in  Somalia 
arrested 14 teenagers for watching a World Cup soccer match,
accusing them of “time-wasting” and warning others against
viewing the world’s most-watched sporting event.  
 The group was watching the game between Germany and
Australia on a television at a house in Afgoye, 30 kilometers
(19 miles) west of the capital, Mogadishu, when they were seized
late yesterday, Sheikh Abdisamad Abdulahi, a commander of the
Hisbul Islam militia, said in a phone interview today.  
 “Our troops stormed their room and arrested all of the
boys,” he said. “They have violated our orders not to watch such
time-wasting games.”  
 Islamists including Hisbul Islam and the al-Shabaab militia
control most of southern and central parts of Somalia following
a three-year battle to overthrow the government of President
 Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed . The Horn of Africa nation hasn’t had
a functioning central administration since the ouster of former
dictator,  Mohamed Siad Barre , nearly two decades ago.  
 The Islamists in Somalia are proponents of Shariah law,
which operates under a code of Islamic principles first
established in the Arab world by the prophet Muhammad in the
seventh century. Watching soccer is un-Islamic, Abdulahi said.  
 “I am warning all the teenagers not to watch such games at
all,” he said. “If we find anyone watching these games we will
punish them.”  
 None of the cinemas in Mogadishu are allowed to broadcast
World Cup matches and fans of the sport can only view games
using satellite television.  
 The World Cup kicked off in South Africa on June 11. It’s
the first time the tournament is being hosted by an African
country.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hamsa Omar  in Mogadishu via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        