-- South Korea Presses UN Security Council to Take Action Over Ship's Sinking
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-06-15T01:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/south-korean-commander-lee-replaced-as-nation-makes-un-case-against-north.html

          
          
             South Korea called on the United
Nations Security Council to take “appropriate action” against
North Korea for torpedoing the Cheonan warship, hours after the
government replaced its top military commander.  
 The Security Council’s response should be “commensurate
with the gravity of the provocation,” South Korea’s Ambassador
 Park In Kook  said in New York yesterday as officials presented
evidence of North Korean involvement in the sinking.  
 “We are just victims,” Pak Tok Hun, North Korea’s deputy
ambassador to the UN told reporters before meeting privately
with the Security Council, reiterating the country wasn’t
responsible for the incident.  
 South Korea yesterday replaced  Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Chairman General Lee Sang Eui’s after an investigation showed
“many problems” in the country’s response to the incident. The
findings may hinder President  Lee Myung Bak ’s bid to win over a
public that is skeptical of his hard line on North Korea and
that punished his Grand National Party in local elections on
June 2.  
 The South Korean investigation may also undermine Lee’s
push for action at the UN, said Brian Myers, professor of
international studies at Dongseo University in Busan, South
Korea. China and Russia, which have veto power in the council,
have refused to back South Korea.  
 “If they see even the South Korean people themselves
aren’t really all that upset about the Cheonan sinking they are
going to feel even less inclined to want to alienate North
Korea,” Myers said. “The South Koreans need to project more of
an image of firmness and resolve.”  
 International Panel  
 A South Korea-led multination panel, which said on May 20
North Korea fired a torpedo that sank the 1,200-ton warship,
killing 46 sailors, presented evidence to the Security Council.
The panel included experts from the U.S., U.K., Australia and
Sweden.  
 The evidence included photographs of pieces of the torpedo
and information about the movements of North Korean submarines
in the region at the time of the attack. Other proof included
photos of ship plates that were bent inwards by an explosion and
statements from survivors.  
 South Korea’s presentation was “extremely convincing,”
Japan’s Ambassador  Yukio Takasu  said, adding that the Security
Council should “take action.” Some council members, Takasu
said without naming them, “are still analyzing, have some
questions and want to wait.”  
 Gerard Araud , France’s ambassador to the UN, said he found
the South Korean briefing “very convincing.” About Pak’s
presentation, Araud said there was “nothing on the North Korean
side, just allegations, accusations, no science.”  
 North Korea has accused South Korea of cooking up evidence
to justify U.S.-led efforts to stifle it.  
 Drinking Binge  
 South Korea’s probe into its response to the incident
revealed a shot-drinking binge by General Lee and a cover-up of
failures in the nation’s defense. Army Chief of Staff Han Min
Koo will replace Lee, pending lawmakers’ approval, the Defense
Ministry said yesterday.  
 After downing 10 shots of whiskey at a military dinner in
Daejeon on March 26, according to closed-circuit television
footage cited by government investigators, Lee took a train 160
kilometers (99 miles) north to Seoul to take charge as the
warship Cheonan split in two in heavy seas.  
 Lee slept off his drinking session in his office, Yonhap
News reported last week, citing investigators. The Joint Chiefs
of Staff denied the General was too drunk to give orders.  
 Tail Fin  
 Within hours of reports of the drinking session, South
Korean websites carried a  picture  of a shot glass in the shape
of a torpedo, with No.1 written on one tail fin. That number,
painted on a torpedo fin salvaged from the sinking site, was a
key piece of the evidence put forward by a South Korean-led
international panel to prove the North Korea was behind the
attack.  
 North Korea has played on contradictions in South Korea’s
report, including a change in the reported time the incident
took place.  
 The South Korean military edited video footage to remove
evidence of the timing of the event in an attempt to cover up
the slow response, the probe found. The audit board on June 10
said 25 generals and civilian officials should be punished over
numerous problems in the military’s ability to prevent attacks
and the reporting of incidents.  
 Almost one in four South Koreans said they don’t trust the
probe’s findings, according to a poll commissioned by the
Hankook Ilbo newspaper on May 24.  
 Such skepticism has riled the government, which announced a
crackdown on people spreading “false rumors” on the Internet.  
 The People’s Solidarity for Participatory Democracy  sent
letters to Security Council members questioning the findings and
calling for a reopening of the investigation, said Kim Hui Sun,
a coordinator at the Seoul-based civic group.  
 In a six-point  objection , the group said the military’s
failure to disclose information and the government’s clampdown
on freedom of speech had undermined the inquiry.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        