-- South African Police Use Tear Gas to End World Cup Wage Protest in Durban
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-06-14T10:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/south-african-police-use-tear-gas-to-end-world-cup-wages-protest-in-durban.html

          
          
             Riot police fired tear gas and
rubber bullets to break up a protest over pay following last
night’s soccer World Cup match between Germany and Australia in
Durban, South Africa.  
 “We were protesting for the wages,” Sydney Zulu, who said
he was employed as security personnel at  Durban Stadium , said in
an interview in the early hours of today. “When we started
protesting, they called the police. We were not violent and they
started retaliating against us.”  
 A protest started when the stewards were being paid after
the match, Phindile Radebe, a spokeswoman for the South African
Police Service, said in an interview today. “They were not
satisfied about the amount being paid and became unruly.”  
 About 200 stewards became “verbally abusive and threw
apples at the management” Radebe said. Police removed the
protesters from the stadium where they continued to protest on a
nearby street, she said.  
 Two loud bangs could be heard from within the stadium’s
media center as the police tried to drive the workers from a
parking lot underneath the 62,760-seat venue following Germany’s
4-0 win in Group D.  
 “Police were forced to use rubber bullets to disperse them,
no one was injured,” Radebe said.  
 Rich Mkhondo , a spokesman for the World Cup’s local
organizing committee, said the dispute was an “internal
matter” between the stewards and their employers and didn’t
have any impact on security at last night’s match, the first of
seven games to be held in Durban, or on spectators.  
 “It’s an employer-employee dispute over wages,” Mkhondo
said at a news conference in Johannesburg. “We will give you an
update tomorrow. We’re having discussions to ensure that it is
not repeated anywhere else.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Durban through the Johannesburg newsroom 
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net 
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        