-- South Korea's Won Reaches a Six-Week High as Exports Increase; Bonds Rise
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-08-02T08:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/south-korea-s-won-advances-on-tighter-forwards-curbs-risk-of-intervention.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won climbed to a six-
week high after the government reported a bigger gain in July
exports than economists forecast. Bonds fell on concern the
central bank will add to last month’s interest-rate increase.  
 The currency strengthened the most in three weeks as
overseas investors added to their  holdings  of Korean shares for
a ninth day, the longest run of net purchases since April.
Government data released on Aug. 1 showed  overseas shipments 
rose 29.6 percent from a year earlier, compared with the median
forecast for a 27.4 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey. Trade
surpluses of $5.7 billion for July and $6.4 billion in June were
the biggest in a year.  
 “We should see further won gains, given the continuing
strength in net exports, which remain very robust,” said
 Christian Carrillo , a Tokyo-based senior rates strategist at
Societe Generale SA. “The only element blocking further
currency appreciation appears to be central bank intervention.”  
 The won appreciated 0.9 percent to 1,172.45 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency reached 1,171.51, the highest level
since June 21.  
 The won weakened on July 28, snapping a six-day rally, as
traders said the Bank of Korea bought the dollar to counter
gains that may hurt exports, which account for about half of
South Korea’s gross domestic product. Central banks intervene by
arranging purchases or sales of foreign exchange.  
 Bonds Fall  
 South Korea’s benchmark three-year bonds fell for the first
time in five days on concern a strengthening economy will prompt
the Bank of Korea to lift borrowing costs next week. The central
bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis points from
a record-low 2 percent on July 9, citing inflation concerns.  
 “A possible rate hike this month is pressuring bond
prices,” said  Peter Park , a fixed-income analyst at Woori
Investment & Securities Co Ltd. “That’s pushed investors to
sell their holdings to keep what they’ve gained as prices have
been rising for a while.”  
 The yield on the 3.75 percent security due in June 2013
rose four basis points to 3.85 percent, after last week reaching
a one-month low of 3.80 percent. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 Data released today showed inflation last month stayed
within the central bank’s target. The  consumer price index 
gained 2.6 percent from a year earlier, the statistics office
said, matching the increase in June and the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The Bank of Korea is targeting
an inflation rate of 2 percent to 4 percent through 2012.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Korean won climbed 1.5 percent to 1,227.45 per dollar as of 9:22 a.m. in Seoul. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Patrick Bennett, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's currency policy.
     Bennett also discusses the outlook for the South Korean won and the euro. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
