-- Spain Needs to Shore Up Savings Banks, Doesn't Need EU Help, Germany Says
-- Tony Czuczka
-- 2010-06-14T12:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/spain-needs-to-shore-up-savings-banks-doesn-t-need-eu-help-germany-says.html

          
          
             Spain needs to shore up its savings
banks on its own and doesn’t require European Union aid to
tackle its public debt, the German Finance Ministry said.  
 Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government “currently sees no
need for action” to help Spain from the EU’s 750 billion-euro
($918 billion) package, Finance Ministry spokesman  Michael Offer 
told reporters in Berlin today. “It’s up to Spain to find
solutions for its banking sector as required.”  
 Offer was responding to German media reports that the EU
may offer financial aid to Spain to help shore up its banks.
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and European
Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso  favor such a move, the
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported today, citing no one.  
 No financial aid plan is being prepared for Spain, European
Commission spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said by telephone in
Brussels today. He called media reports that a plan is being
prepared “mere speculation.”  
 Greece’s sovereign debt crisis has focused attention on
Spain’s finances and the cost of bolstering Spanish savings
banks, which are stuck with bad loans after recession and a
property-market crash.  
 Soaring bond yields in euro-area countries such as Greece,
Ireland and Portugal forced the EU to craft the rescue package
and the European Central Bank to start buying government bonds
on May 10. Spain isn’t facing an emergency, Offer said.  
 “The condition for mobilizing the rescue umbrella are
payment difficulties by a euro country and a threat to the
overall stability of the euro,” he said at a news briefing.
“Clearly, those conditions aren’t met right now.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        