-- Spain's Sebastian Weighs Price Cuts for Renewable Power, Meets Executives
-- Ben Sills
-- 2010-06-14T12:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/spain-s-sebastian-weighs-price-cuts-for-renewable-power-meets-executives.html

          
          
             Spanish Industry Minister  Miguel Sebastian  will meet with executives of renewable-energy
companies and government officials this week as he prepares a
final proposal for cutting prices paid for clean energy.  
 Sebastian may decide to replace the premium prices earned
by wind- and solar-energy producers with rates that yield a 7
percent-to-8 percent return on investment, according to a
ministry spokesman who declined to be named under department
policy. That option would cost producers about 2.6 billion euros
($3.2 billion) a year, the newspaper Cinco Dias reported today.  
 Spain’s government is searching for a formula to reduce the
cost of power for industry to boost competitiveness and economic
growth as investors dump government bonds on concern Spain will
struggle to rein in its budget deficit.  
 Unless cuts are made, renewable-power generators this year
are set to receive 6.3 billion euros in consumer subsidies
compared with 5 billion euros in 2009. The subsidies are added
to monthly power bills, making clean power from about two to 10
times more expensive than electricity from fossil fuels.  
 Under existing rates, the cumulative aid will total more
than 126 billion euros over 25 years, the ministry said in a
report this year.  
 Investor concern about subsidy cuts has been growing since
April, when Sebastian said he was talking with companies and
lobby groups about the issue. His spokesman said in a telephone
interview on June 9 that the ministry is considering all options
including lowering the price paid for electricity from existing
plants. A decision is due by July 1.  
 Renewable-energy companies such as  Fomento de
Construcciones y Contratas SA  and Grupo T-Solar Global SA
objected to the plans saying their existing plants are
guaranteed current prices for as much as 25 years under a 2007
law.  
 Government officials say that the law establishing
subsidies for renewable power gives them the right to change the
power price that existing plants receive.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        