-- Spheris Files Bankruptcy Liquidation Plan to Pay Creditors From Asset Sale
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-06-14T18:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/spheris-files-bankruptcy-liquidation-plan-to-pay-creditors-from-asset-sale.html

          
          
             Spheris Inc., a Tennessee medical
transcription company, filed a plan of liquidation paying its
creditors from the proceeds of selling its assets.  
 The company filed its plan June 11 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Wilmington, Delaware. It will seek court approval July 13 of
its disclosure statement, an outline of the plan.  
 Spheris is now officially known as SP Wind Down Inc. after
selling almost all its assets, including its name, to rivals
MedQuist Inc. and CBay Inc. for about $116.3 million. The units
of Mumbai-based  CBaySystems Holdings Ltd.  also provide medical-
transcription services.  
 The sale consisted of about $98.8 million in cash and a
$17.5 million note, according to court documents. Spheris
received court approval last week to sell the note to Black
Horse Capital LP for about $13.8 million.  
 Spheris, based in Franklin, Tennessee, listed debt of about
$225 million and assets of about $61 million as of Sept. 30 in
Chapter 11 documents filed on Feb. 3.  
 The company filed bankruptcy after revenue declined due to
“significant technology developments” and “accelerated price
pressures” within the medical records industry, Chief
Restructuring Officer Robert Butler said in court papers.  
 Lenders with claims of about $75.6 million already have
been paid in full from the sale, court papers show.  
 Under Spheris’s plan, a trust would be created to
distribute the sale money and any other remaining assets.
Subordinated noteholders, owed about $133.6 million, and other
unsecured creditors would get their proportionate share of the
trust. The unsecured creditors committee is a proponent of the
plan.  
 The case is In re SP Wind Down Inc., 10-10352, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        