-- Stocks That Climb When Market Tanks May Tempt You: John Dorfman
-- John Dorfman
-- 2010-06-14T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/stocks-that-climb-when-market-tanks-may-tempt-you-john-dorfman.html

          
          
             The stock market decline that began
April 23 lasted six weeks -- if June 7 was the bottom, which we
don’t know for sure yet, of course. It felt more like six years.  
 Holders of some stocks, though, have reason to smile.
Surprisingly, about 30 percent of U.S. stocks have gained 10
percent or more for the year to date.  
 That’s true even though the total return on the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index,  perhaps the best gauge of the overall U.S.
stock market, is negative 1.2 percent for the year.  
 About 800 stocks with a market value of $250 million or
more have scored gains of 10 percent or more for the year.  
 Prominent in the winner’s circle is  SPDR Gold Trust , better
known by its stock symbol GLD. It is an exchange-traded fund
that owns gold bullion and intends to track the price
performance of gold, minus fund expenses.  
 State Street Corp. created GLD in late 2004. Since then, it
has posted  gains  every year, ranging from 5 percent in 2008 to
30 percent in 2007. So far this year GLD is up about 12 percent.
No wonder I got an e-mail last week that said, “Forget about
your (expletive deleted) stocks! Just buy gold.”  
 I rarely dabble in gold or gold stocks, because one can’t
calculate a price-earnings or price-revenue ratio on gold
bullion, and those ratios are usually high on gold mining
stocks. Yet I must agree there is a fair chance that gold will
do well the next several years.  
 Gold Strategy  
 Many investors are seeing their faith in paper currencies
weakened as governments around the world run up big deficits. In
my opinion, GLD is not a bad way to own gold because it is
simple, direct, and doesn’t involve large costs for storage and
insurance.  
 Speaking of gold,  Newmont Mining Corp. , the largest U.S.
gold producer, is up about 19 percent year to date. Newmont,
based in Greenwood Village, Colorado, doesn’t meet my valuation
criteria. However, its ratios are more attractive than most
gold-mining stocks.  
 Another big company in this favored group is  DirecTV  of El
Segundo, California, the largest U.S. provider of satellite TV
services. On May 6 it posted 59 cents a share in earnings,
beating analysts’ average estimate of 46 cents, with good
results in both the U.S. and Latin America. The shares are up
about 15 percent this year.  
 I wouldn’t buy DirecTV stock.  Debt  is about 300 percent of
equity, which raises the risk level. And DirecTV shares seem
high-priced to me at 21 times earnings and 12 times book value.  
 No ‘Winner’s Curse’  
 Hershey Co.  of Hershey, Pennsylvania, has risen about 42
percent this year. I believe that investors breathed a sigh of
relief when Hershey let Kraft Foods Inc. of Northfield,
Illinois, win the hand of Cadbury Plc. Investors had feared a
bidding war, in which Hershey might overpay and suffer what’s
known as the “winner’s curse.”  
 In addition, Hershey posted first-quarter earnings almost
double last year’s, surprising analysts. It pushed through a
price increase on about a third of its product line, and sold
more candy bars nevertheless.  
 Would I bite? Not at 21 times earnings. Also, I don’t
relish the company’s  debt  level, at more than 200 percent of
equity.  
 More to my taste is  Impax Laboratories Inc.  of Hayward,
California, which trades at only seven times earnings. Impax
manufactures both proprietary and generic drugs. Public since
1995, the company posted a series of losses, then broke into the
black in 2007. The stock is up about 53 percent this year.  
 Drugs, Satellites  
 Its earnings bounce around. Last year Impax earned 82 cents
a share. This year it is headed for $3.13,  analysts  estimate.
Their early guesses for 2011 call for $1.46 a share.  
 This month the company settled a patent dispute with Endo
Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. and Penwest Pharmaceuticals Co.
over a generic version of a medicine for Parkinson’s disease.  
 I also like  GeoEye Inc.  of Dulles, Virginia. It operates a
satellite imaging service, taking pictures of earth from space.
Google Inc. uses the company’s satellite images for its Google
Maps and Google Earth services.  
 GeoEye shares are up about 14 percent this year and trade at
11 times earnings. The company posted record revenue in the
first quarter. Consider this recommendation speculative, as the
company’s debt is higher than I usually prefer.  
 SanDisk Corp. , located in Milpitas, California, appears to
be coming out of the recession nicely. In the first fiscal
quarter, it posted revenue of about $1 billion, up from $659
million a year earlier.  
 Earnings were 99 cents a share, one of SanDisk’s best
quarters. Shares are up about 54 percent this year.  
 Disclosure note: Personally and for clients, I own shares
in Endo Pharmaceuticals. I have no long or short positions in
any of the other stocks mentioned in this week’s column.  
 ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Beal, director of Pacific equities at Henderson Global Investors, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about his investment strategy for Asian stocks.
     Speaking from Singapore, Beal also discusses global economies and stocks, and China's property market. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
