-- Sugar Has Longest Winning Streak in Nine Months, Lifted by Weaker Dollar
-- Debarati Roy
-- 2010-06-14T18:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/sugar-has-longest-winning-streak-for-almost-two-years-as-dollar-weakens.html

          
          
             Sugar rose, posting the longest
winning streak in nine months, as the dollar’s slump made
commodities more attractive and importers replenished
inventories.  
 The  greenback  fell as much as 1.5 percent against a basket
of six major currencies, helping to send the  Reuters/Jefferies
CRB Index  of 19 raw materials to a one-month high. Sugar
stockpiles have declined 27 million tons in the past two
seasons, according to London-based broker Czarnikow Group Ltd.  
 “The dollar weakness is helping commodities,” said
 Michael McDougal , a senior vice president at broker Newedge USA
in New York. “Also, sugar supplies are expected to remain thin
until November or December this year.”  
 Raw sugar for October delivery advanced 0.15 cent, or 0.9
percent, to 15.99 cents a pound in New York on ICE Futures U.S.,
rising for a fifth straight day and the longest advance since
late August.  
 “Sugar is broadly up with the overall commodity markets”
gaining, said  Eugen Weinberg , an analyst with Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt.  
 Prices more than doubled last year after unusually heavy
rain in Brazil and a drought in India led to a second straight
year of a global production deficit. Brazil and India are the
world’s largest growers.  
 “We remain positive short term on the market,”  Naim Beydoun  of Rolle, Switzerland-based Swiss Sugar Brokers, said
today in an e-mailed note. “On the futures, short covering
might take the market to a higher range, from 14 to 16 cents to
16 to 18 cents,” he wrote. Short-covering refers to purchases
by investors who are buying back contracts to close bets on
price declines.  
 In London, white-sugar futures for August delivery gained
$2.50, or 0.5 percent, to $526.50 on the Liffe exchange.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 M. Shankar  in London at 
 mshankar@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        