-- U.K. Deficit Narrower Than Forecast; Budget Office Predicts Weaker Growth
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-14T09:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/u-k-deficit-narrower-than-forecast-budget-office-predicts-weaker-growth.html

          
          
             Britain’s budget deficit will narrow
more than forecast even as the  economy grows  more slowly than
the previous government estimated, the U.K.’s fiscal watchdog
said in a report prepared for the June 22 emergency budget.  
 The deficit will  narrow  from 155 billion pounds in this
fiscal year to 71 billion pounds ($228 billion) by April 2015,
the Office of Budget Responsibility said in London today. That’s
a 22 billion-pound improvement on the previous forecast.  Gross
domestic product  will rise 2.6 percent next year, instead of the
3.25 percent predicted by the Labour government in March.  
 The report lays the ground for Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  to outline the deepest spending cuts in a
generation in next week’s budget. The pound has fallen 10
percent against the dollar this year and Fitch Ratings said last
week that Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government
will need to step up the pace of reductions to protect Britain’s
top credit rating.  
 Former Bank of England policy maker  Alan Budd  and his
colleagues in the OBR will release revised forecasts on June 22
to take account of the budget measures. Budd told reporters
today he resisted the temptation to be overly pessimistic in his
predictions, calling them the “best shot at an impossible
task.”  
 ‘Surprisingly Optimistic’  
 The forecasts “have taken a surprisingly optimistic view
of the outlook for the U.K. public finances,” Jonathan Loynes,
chief European economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London,
said in an e-mail. “On the face of it, they might seem to
relieve the pressure for an additional fiscal tightening, or
even make room for tax cuts. But we suspect that the government
will still want to err on the side of caution, if only for
political reasons.”  
 The OBR said that the deficit as a percentage of GDP would
fall to 3.9 percent by 2015 from 10.5 percent. Net debt would
increase to 74.4 percent of economic output.  
 Sterling climbed 1.2 percent to $1.4730 as of 10:47 a.m. in
London and was little changed at 83.18 pence per euro. The 10-
year gilt yield was three basis points higher at 3.50 percent,
after reaching 3.52 percent.  
 Osborne created the OBR to provide forecasts that are
independent of the government. The six-week old coalition is
pinning the blame for Britain’s record peacetime budget deficit
on Labour, in power from 1997.  Gordon Brown  was chancellor in
that government for 10 years before taking over as prime
minister in 2007.  
 Cameron said last week Brown left the public finances in a
worse state than he anticipated and warned that the squeeze to
come will “affect every single person in our country.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.K. deficit to narrow as weaker growth forecast  
                       
                         
                           Stephen Yang/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The report lays the ground for Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne to outline the deepest spending cuts in a generation in next week’s budget. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The report lays the ground for Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne to outline the deepest spending cuts in a generation in next week’s budget. Photographer: Stephen Yang/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
