-- U.K. to Cut Defense Budget `Ruthlessly' After Priorities Review, Fox Says
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-06-14T10:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/u-k-to-cut-defense-budget-ruthlessly-after-priorities-review-fox-says.html

          
          
             Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said the
British government will act “ruthlessly and without sentiment”
in cutting defense spending as it seeks to reduce its record
budget deficit.  
 Setting out his priorities for the first review of the
U.K.’s defense capabilities since 1998, Fox said the military
will bear its share of cuts. He said the nation will become
“stronger” by breaking from Cold War-legacy thinking and
making its armed forces more relevant to current threats.  
 “Resources are tight for the country as a whole and
defense is no exception; this review must be anchored in the art
of the possible,” Fox told the  Royal United Services Institute 
in London today. “We cannot insure against every imaginable
risk, and so we need to decide which risks we are willing to
meet and which risks we are willing to take.”  
 The  Ministry of Defense  won’t be able to afford as much as
half of the equipment it is seeking to buy in the next decade,
according to a report into procurement last year by  Bernard Gray , a former government adviser. The U.K. defense review is
due to be published in the fall.  
 “We face some difficult, delicate and politically charged
decisions,” Fox said today. “There are competing priorities,
risks to manage and budgets to balance.”  
 “We must act ruthlessly and without sentiment,” Fox said.
“It is inevitable that there will be the perception of winners
and losers as we go through this process. But defense as a whole
will, and must, come out in a stronger position,” he said.  
 “It is crucial that the review avoids being merely a cost-
cutting exercise,”  Matthew Knowles , a spokesman for  ADS , the
group that represents U.K. aerospace, defense and security
equipment makers, said in an e-mail. “The wealth-creating
benefits of defense must also be considered in the review.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        