-- U.K. Budget Deficit Is Forecast to Narrow Even as Pace of Growth Weakens
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-14T17:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/u-k-has-bigger-fiscal-gap-to-fill-than-labour-forecast-watchdog-reports.html

          
          
             Britain has a bigger budget hole to
fill than the previous Labour government forecast, the country’s
fiscal watchdog said in an initial report that sets the stage
for the deepest spending cuts in a generation.  
 Cyclically adjusted net borrowing, the part of the deficit
that is structural, is forecast to fall from 8 percent of gross
domestic product this year to 2.8 percent by April 2015 instead
of the 2.5 percent predicted by the Treasury in March, the
Office for Budget Responsibility said in London today. The
economy will expand at a slower pace than forecast, it said.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is set to
outline the deepest spending cuts since the 1970s in his
emergency budget on June 22. Fitch Ratings said last week that
Prime Minister  David Cameron’s  coalition needs to step up the
pace of reductions to protect Britain’s top credit rating.  
 “The problem may not be any bigger but the proportion of
the problem that needs to be addressed with spending cuts or tax
increases is greater,” said  Danny Gabay , director at Fathom
Financial Consulting and a former Bank of England and government
economist. “The reason the U.K. has a fiscal problem is not to
do with the crisis, it’s structural.”  
 Sterling climbed 1.5 percent to $1.4767 as of 5:42 p.m. in
London. The 10-year gilt yield was 9 basis points higher at 3.55
percent.  
 ‘Credibility’ Needed  
 “Credibility will be a key issue in next week’s budget,”
said  Hetal Mehta , senior economic adviser to the Ernst & Young
ITEM Club. “Any hint that there is a lack of conviction in
tackling the huge deficit will undermine market confidence and
make it even more difficult to consolidate fiscal policy in the
years ahead.”  
 The budget office, set up after the Conservatives formed a
coalition with the Liberal Democrats following the inconclusive
May 6 election, will release revised forecasts on June 22 to
take account of the measures announced by Osborne.  
 The OBR, led by former Bank of England policy maker  Alan Budd , forecast the overall deficit will be 22 billion pounds
($33 billion) lower over the next five years than the Treasury
predicted in March.  
 That reflects the impact on tax receipts and spending of
abandoning the deliberately “cautious” planning assumptions
used by the Treasury under Labour’s  Gordon Brown  and  Alistair Darling , Budd said.  
 ‘Spread the Pain’  
 The deficit will  narrow  from 155 billion pounds in this
fiscal year to 71 billion pounds by April 2015, or 3.9 percent
of GDP. Net debt will increase to 74.4 percent of economic
output, the OBR forecast.  
 The OBR forecasts would require a real-terms cut to
departments’ budgets of 10.2 percent between now and 2015, or
39.3 billion pounds a year, the Institute for Fiscal Studies
said. Given that Osborne has pledged to protect spending on
health and foreign aid, the squeeze on welfare benefits would be
so large that he may have to increase taxes to “spread the
pain,” it said.  
 The six-week-old coalition is pinning the blame for the
size of the deficit on Labour, which ruled Britain for 13 years.
Cameron said last that the squeeze to come will “affect every
single person in our country.”  
 “The structural deficit is larger than anyone realized,”
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said in a speech in central
London. Labour left the U.K. “very nearly bankrupt,” he said.  
 ‘Forced by the Markets’  
 “We will not allow our hand to be forced by the markets,”
Clegg said, citing the fiscal crisis engulfing Greece and other
euro-area countries.  
 “The OBR couldn’t be clearer,” Osborne said in a
statement released by the Treasury. “Growth lower in every
year. The structural deficit -- that’s the borrowing which
doesn’t fall even when the economy grows -- higher in every
year, and that’s on what the OBR say are optimistic
assumptions.”  
 While the OBR accepted the economy will grow about 1.3
percent this year, it said the Treasury had been too optimistic
about future years. It forecast 2.6 percent growth in 2011 and
2.8 percent in 2012, compared with Treasury predictions of 3.25
percent and 3.5 percent.  
 The Treasury said a surprise 10 billion-pound improvement
in the deficit will be eroded to about 3 billion pounds by 2015.
Budd said the forecasts are based on market interest rates that
have fallen since May because of expectations that the
government will take steps to reduce the deficit.  
 Osborne created the OBR to provide forecasts that are
independent of the government.  
 Labour fought the election on a pledge to maintain spending
this year to sustain the nascent economic recovery. The new
government has already announced 6 billion pounds of budget cuts
to take effect this year.  
 “I’m extremely concerned that the fiscal conservatism
that’s now so dominant in so many countries in Europe is going
to result in there being less growth,” Darling told BBC News
television today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        