-- Afghanistan to Address U.S. Survey of $1 Trillion Mineral Fields This Week
-- Tan Hwee Ann
-- 2010-06-14T14:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/u-s-discovers-1-trillion-of-mineral-resources-in-afghanistan-nyt-says.html

          
          
             The  Afghan Mines Ministry  will this
week discuss a U.S. survey of the Central Asian nation’s
untapped mineral deposits, which may be valued at $1 trillion.  
 The survey found niobium, rare earths and gold, as well as
lithium deposits that may be similar in size to the world’s
largest known reserves in Bolivia, the New York Times reported,
citing unidentified Pentagon officials. The Mines Ministry can’t
comment until it receives a copy of the survey, Deputy Mines
Minister  Abdul Qudus Hamidi  said today by telephone from Kabul.  
 Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  has said mineral resources
will be essential to stabilizing the country, which has the
world’s second-poorest living standards, according to the  United
Nations . Thirty-two years of war and weak institutions have
hampered the development of its two richest known deposits:
Hajigak’s  1.8 billion-ton iron-ore field  and Aynak’s copper ore.  
 The U.S Geological Survey conducted the exploration of
Afghanistan in 2006, flying a surveillance aircraft over two-
thirds of the country and examining it with cameras, ground-
penetrating radar and instruments that measured variations in
gravity and magnetic fields,  according to the USGS website . U.S.
forces’ flight restrictions blocked the agency from surveying
the rest of the nation, the USGS account shows.  
 Afghanistan’s mineral resources are worth $1 trillion,
Karzai said in January, citing the incomplete U.S. study. Mines
Minister Wahidullah Shahrani will discuss the survey at a press
briefing on June 17 after returning from a trip to India,
ministry spokesman Jawad Omar said today by phone from Kabul.  
 China’s state-owned  Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd.  won a
license in 2007 to develop the Aynak field, where mining had
been blocked by war in the 1980s. The deposit holds 11 million
tons of copper metal, according to a 2008 statement from  Jiangxi
Copper Co. , a partner in the project.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul, Afghanistan, at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tan Hwee Ann  in Hong Kong at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        