-- U.S. Steel Loses Bid in Court to Throw Out Canada Investment Lawsuit
-- Joe Schneider
-- 2010-06-14T22:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/u-s-steel-loses-bid-to-end-stelco-lawsuit-under-canada-investment-act.html

          
          
             U.S. Steel Corp. , sued by the
Canadian government for failing to meet investment commitments
it made in 2007 when it acquired Stelco Inc., lost its bid to
have the suit thrown out.  
 Federal Court Judge Dolores Hansen today upheld a section
of the  Investment Canada Act  that allows the government to fine
or force foreign companies to sell their Canadian operations if
they fail to live up to commitments made when acquiring a
Canadian company.  
 The government sued  U.S. Steel  last year in the first such
action since the investment act became law in 1984, claiming the
Pittsburgh-based steelmaker failed to maintain  employment  levels
and steel production at plants in Hamilton, Ontario. Canada
sought as much as C$14 million ($13.5 million) in fines, or an
order forcing U.S. Steel to sell the Canadian operations.  
 The law lets government “impose penalties you get in
criminal proceedings but none of the protections,” Marie
Heenan, Stelco’s lawyer, said at a hearing in Toronto in
January. “The government gets to have it cake and eat it too.”  
 The law “is not ‘by nature’ a penal proceeding,” Hansen
wrote in the 46-page decision issued today in Ottawa. The
possibility of a forced divesture doesn’t rise to the level of
those decisions in which the life, liberty and security of a
person are at stake, she said. “It is purely an economic
outcome.”  
 Reviewing Opinion  
 “We have just received the court’s opinion and are
reviewing it,”  Erin Dipietro , a spokeswoman at U.S. Steel,
said.  
 The ruling isn’t a surprise and is consistent with earlier
decisions that restricted such constitutional challenges to
criminal proceedings in Canada, Mark Katz, a partner in Toronto
with  Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg ’s competition and foreign
investment review practice, said in a phone interview. Katz
wasn’t involved in the case.  
 In civil cases, courts tend to see government-imposed
penalties under the Investment or Competition Acts as
“administrative in nature,” Katz said.  
 U.S. Steel , the largest U.S.-based steelmaker,  acquired 
Stelco for $1.2 billion in cash in 2007. Since then, it has
fired workers in the U.S. and Canada because of a drop in
manufacturing, construction and automaking.  
 The company idled most of its operations in Canada in March
2009, laying off 1,500 workers. It restarted one of two Canadian
blast furnaces in August, allowing 800 employees to return to
work.  
 Company’s Commitments  
 The company has lived up to 29 of 31 commitments it made
before the acquisition, including paying off C$700 million of
Stelco’s debt, funding the company’s  pension plan  and spending
C$15 million on research, said Michael Barrack, U.S. Steel’s
lawyer.  
 “The whole world melted” during the recession, so it’s
understandable U.S. Steel would claim economic circumstances
beyond its control, Katz said.  
 While Clement sought sanctions against U.S. Steel, he
declined to press for similar sanctions against  Vale SA , which
bought Inco Ltd. and then curtailed production during the
recession. Clement said Vale, based in Rio De Janeiro, acted
consistently at its plants around the world.  
 “I expect U.S. Steel will raise that” at trial, Katz
said. The company may not be successful because judges tend to
give ministers a lot of leeway, he said.  
 “It’s based on ministerial discretion and it can be
applied somewhat inconsistently,” Katz said.  
 The case is AGC v. U.S. Steel Corp., T-1162-09, Federal
Court of Canada (Toronto).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Toronto at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        