-- UAW President Says Auto Industry Is Rebounding, Credits Obama
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-06-14T16:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/uaw-president-gettelfinger-says-auto-industry-is-rebounding-credits-obama.html

          
          
             United Auto Workers President  Ron Gettelfinger , ending eight years as the union’s leader, said the
U.S. auto industry is recovering and credited President  Barack Obama  with saving it.  
 “There is strong evidence that the worst is behind us and
the industry has clearly rebounded,” he said today in a
farewell speech at the  UAW’s constitutional convention  in
Detroit. “Without hesitation, President Obama addressed the
auto industry crisis.”  
 Gettelfinger, 65, is retiring this week after two terms as
president. He overcame the union’s shrinking size to persuade
the U.S. Congress and Obama to rescue General Motors Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC last year. The UAW has fallen to about
355,000 members from a 1979 peak of 1.5 million, according to
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.  
 Bob King , 63, who leads the UAW’s bargaining with  Ford
Motor Co. , has been chosen by the union’s Administration Caucus
to replace Gettelfinger when delegates elect a new leader
June 16 at the convention. The Administration Caucus has
controlled the Detroit-based union since 1946.  
 Chrysler is hiring workers for the first time in a decade,
GM is set to build a new small car in Michigan and  Ford  is
“hitting on all cylinders and setting the standard for the
industry,” Gettelfinger told about 1,200 union delegates at
Cobo Hall in Detroit.  
 Gettelfinger said “anti-union forces” and “right-wing
conservatives” sought to destroy the union and the U.S. auto
industry during the debate over its bailout last year.  
 “The contempt for the UAW was so deep that some of them
were willing to let the industry collapse in hopes that they
could destroy us,” he said. “We are leaner, yes, but stronger,
wiser and more determined.”  
 Gettelfinger said the delegates should support Obama and
Democrats in the midterm elections in November.  
 “We must stand with those who stood with us,” the union
leader said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Detroit at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        