-- UBS May Escape `Game of Chicken' as Lawmakers Vote on Treaty
-- Klaus Wille
-- 2010-06-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/ubs-may-sidestep-swiss-game-of-chicken-as-lawmakers-vote-on-u-s-treaty.html

          
          
             UBS AG  may escape a “game of
chicken” played by Swiss lawmakers as the price of failure to
back a tax treaty with the U.S. would be too high: the bank’s
American operations and the country’s export industry.  
 Deputies in Switzerland’s lower house may support the
treaty in a second vote today after last week rejecting the
handover of details of as many as 4,450 suspected tax dodgers to
U.S. authorities, according to academics and analysts, including
Georg Lutz of the University of Lausanne.  
 The dispute stems from a U.S. crackdown on offshore tax
evasion that led Switzerland to agree last August to give up
account data. The parliament has to approve the accord, and the
U.S. may opt to reopen a civil lawsuit and criminal prosecution
unless the government honors the agreement.  
 “What we’re seeing at the moment is a high-stakes game of
chicken,” said Evan Stewart, a lawyer at Zuckerman Spaeder LLP
in New York, in an interview. Further legal proceedings “would
seriously jeopardize UBS’s business in the U.S.,” he said.  
 The nationalist Swiss People’s Party, which voted against
the deal last week in protest against a proposal to boost
corporate taxes on bonuses, may back the accord today to avoid a
clash with U.S. authorities.  
 “The People’s Party will eventually recognize the
importance of the question and support the treaty,” said  Martin Naville , the chief executive of the Swiss-American Chamber of
Commerce, a lobbying group for Swiss and American businesses.
Georg Lutz, a political scientist at the University of Lausanne,
said the party “will give in” eventually.  
 UBS Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  last week said
he’s “confident” that parliament will approve the accord.  
 Like Adolescents  
 “Too much is at stake with this treaty,”  This Jenny , a
deputy in the upper house of parliament for the People’s Party,
said June 9. “We can’t afford this posturing, and this going
back and forth like adolescents. We should try to build
bridges.”  
 UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, avoided U.S. prosecution
in February 2009 by paying $780 million, admitting it helped
wealthy Americans evade U.S. taxes from 2000 to 2007, and
handing over account data on more than 250 U.S. clients. The
next day, the U.S. sued Zurich-based UBS, seeking data on 52,000
Swiss accounts.  
 UBS settled that case in August, agreeing to hand over as
many as 4,450 names to the Swiss government to review before
passing them on to the Internal Revenue Service. Unless the
Swiss disclose the names, the U.S. may extend the deferred-
prosecution agreement beyond its term of 18 months and may
reopen the lawsuit that sought 52,000 names.  
 The  People’s Party  and the Swiss Social Democratic Party
voted against the accord in the lower house after they tied
their approval to conditions. In the upper house, where the two
parties’ support wasn’t needed, the accord was rubberstamped.  
 Parliamentary Deadline  
 The Swiss legislature has until June 18, the last day of
the current parliamentary session, to approve the treaty and
circumvent a January court ruling that said the deal isn’t
enforceable under current Swiss legal provisions.  
 If the lower house votes down the treaty, there won’t be
another ballot, while the two houses will negotiate again if the
lower house supports the treaty but asks for a referendum.  
 The People’s Party has said it will support the deal with
the condition that lawmakers reject proposals to increase
corporate taxes on bonuses. The Social Democrats are linking
their support to a tax on bankers’ bonuses.  
 The People’s Party is the biggest party in the lower house
with 58 deputies, potentially tipping the balance after the
treaty was rejected with 104 votes to 76 last week.  
 UBS Plans  
 John Cryan , UBS’s chief financial officer, said the bank
would find it easier to recruit private bankers if the country
backs the treaty, according to an analyst note from Helvea SA.  
 The accord also would help boost the morale of clients and
staff in the U.S., who seem to have been “particularly
spooked” by last week’s vote, said  Peter Thorne , an analyst at
Helvea, after attending a meeting with Cryan in London.  
 One face-saving option for the People’s Party is to accept
the requests by all other parties to discourage “excessive”
bonuses through higher taxation at the company level.  
 Christoph Blocher, the party’s vice-president and a former
member of the government, was quoted by Tages-Anzeiger on June 9
as saying politicians may be able to “find a way out.”  
 Prosecution in the U.S. would put UBS “out of business the
next day,”  Robert Fink , a tax attorney at Kostelanetz & Fink
LLP in New York, told Bloomberg News by telephone.
“Financially, it could be catastrophic.”  
 U.S. Business  
 “They could shut down UBS in the U.S.,” said George M.
Clarke III, a tax attorney of Miller & Chevalier in Washington.
“They could forbid the bank from accessing the Federal Reserve
system. It could get ugly.”  
 Almost 37 percent of UBS’s  65,233 employees  worked in the
Americas at the end of 2009. UBS’s Wealth Management Americas
unit managed 690 billion Swiss francs ($604 billion) at the end
of the year.  
 A rejection would have a “massive negative effect on the
entire Swiss economy,” the  Swiss-American Chamber  of Commerce
wrote in a May briefing note, and Justice Minister  Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf  has said the agreement had removed “an
existential threat” from UBS.  
 “Large and small Swiss companies with international
business face uncertain times” regarding taxation, a potential
tax haven status and possible discrimination in the U.S., the
lobbying group said. “Overall, the potentially affected
companies represent 35 percent of the Swiss economy with
approximately 1 million jobs,” the chamber said.  
 Plan B  
 Should lawmakers fail to approve the accord, the government
may seek renewed negotiations with the U.S. authorities.  
 “I think Switzerland and UBS have a Plan B up their
sleeves,” said  Rainer Schweizer , a law professor at the
University of St. Gallen. “I’m sure the government has examined
some alternatives.”  
 Lawmakers are aware of the consequences.  
 “The Americans might not ask us whether they should
implement retaliation measures,”  Pirmin Bischof , a member of
the lower house for the Christian Democrat People’s Party, said
on June 7. “As a superpower, they will simply enact them, and
we can gnash our teeth.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Klaus Wille  in Zurich at   kwille@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     UBS AG CEO Oswald Gruebel gestures while speaking at the bank's news conference in Zurich. Photographer: Reto Andreoli/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
