-- Human Trafficking Is a Serious Problem in the U.S., State Department Says
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-06-14T13:53:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/human-trafficking-is-a-serious-problem-in-the-u-s-state-department-says.html

          
          
             The trafficking of men, women and
children for labor and commercial sex is a “serious” problem
in the U.S., according to the  State Department .  
 The department’s 10th annual report grades 175 nations on
their efforts to fight this modern form of slavery. The U.S. is
listed for the first time, placed among those countries that are
doing best in general complying with the Trafficking Victims
Protection Act, the American law against human trafficking.  
 Still,  the report said  the U.S. is a source as well as a
transit and destination country for people forced into labor,
debt bondage and prostitution. The work is predominantly in
manufacturing, janitorial services, agriculture, hotel services,
construction, nail salons, elder care, strip club dancing and
domestic servitude, the U.S. said.  
 “The United States takes its first-ever ranking not as a
reprieve but as a responsibility to strengthen global efforts
against modern slavery, including those within America,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a statement issued
with the report today.  
 The  International Labor Organization  estimated there were
12.3 million victims of forced labor, sex trafficking, debt
bondage and recruitment of child soldiers worldwide in 2009.  
 The U.S. report lists three tiers of nations. Among those
in the bottom tier -- nations that don’t comply with the law and
make no effort to do so -- are Zimbabwe, Saudi Arabia, Cuba,
Mauritania and Sudan.  
 Japan, Israel and Oman are listed in the middle tier --
nations that don’t meet the law’s minimum standards yet are
making “significant” efforts to do so. Oil-rich Qatar is
listed in between the middle and lowest tier on a watch-list of
countries that don’t meet minimum standards and whose progress
is less certain.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        