-- Hungary's Bonds, Forint Advance After Euro Area Industrial Output Report
-- Krystof Chamonikolas
-- 2010-06-14T15:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/hungary-s-bonds-forint-advance-after-fitch-report-into-access-to-funding.html

          
          
             The forint gained and Hungarian
bonds rose after industrial output in the euro area exceeded
forecasts, kindling speculation that sales to the country’s
biggest export market may increase.  
 The forint strengthened as much as 1.1 percent versus the
euro and traded 0.5 percent higher at 279.91 per euro as of 4:49
p.m. in Budapest. The yield on the benchmark 8 percent forint
note due 2015 fell 6 basis points to 7.218 percent, its lowest
in two days.  
 Stocks extended advances worldwide after a report showed
industrial output in the 16 nations that use the euro jumped an
annual 9.5 percent in April, exceeding the forecast for an 8.7
percent increase. Hungary’s recovery from last year’s recession
depends on the euro area, which buys 60 percent of products made
or assembled in Hungary such as Audi cars and Nokia phones.  
 “There’s been so much negativity in the past weeks that
any good numbers from western Europe will spill over and help
eastern European assets,”  Simon Quijano-Evans , head of
emerging-market research at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux in Vienna,
said by phone today. “Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland
are most exposed to the euro region through export links.”  
 Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis sent the euro to a four-year
low against the dollar this month and has wiped out more than $4
trillion from global stock markets in 2010. This has created an
environment in which investors are dwelling on negative
developments even when data show economic recovery, the Bank for
International Settlements said in a report yesterday.  
 Bond Sales  
 Hungary’s failure to achieve its target of raising 50
billion forint ($218 million) at a June 10 debt auction won’t
threaten the country’s immediate access to funding thanks to
“substantial” reserves, Fitch Ratings said late on June 11.
Prime Minister Viktor Orban pledged last week to cut the budget
deficit to within the agreed terms of its international bailout
loan and to adopt “comprehensive structural reforms.”  
 The Fitch report and Orban’s statement “supported
confidence in Hungarian assets,” analysts led by  Jan Cermak  at
CSOB AS, the Prague-based unit of KBC Groep NV, wrote in a
report earlier today.  
 The Hungarian government raised 35 billion forint at an
auction of 12-month Treasury bills on June 10, 15 billion forint
less than was offered. The average yield rose to 5.35 percent
from 5.17 percent at the previous auction on May 27.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Krystof Chamonikolas  in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        