-- Uralkali Climbs in London as Owner Rybolovlev Offloads Controlling Stake
-- Jason Corcoran
-- 2010-06-14T16:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/uralkali-climbs-in-london-as-owner-rybolovlev-offloads-controlling-stake.html

          
          
             OAO Uralkali , Russia’s second-
largest potash producer, advanced to a five-week high in London
trading after billionaire owner  Dmitry Rybolovlev  sold a
controlling stake.  
 Rybolovlev’s Madura Holding Ltd. disposed of 53.2 percent
of Uralkali to Kaliha Finance Ltd., Aerellia Investments Ltd.
and Becounioco Holdings Ltd., according to a statement today.
The stake was sold for $5.2 billion, Interfax reported, citing a
person close to the agreement.  
 Larissa Belyaeva , a spokeswoman for Uralkali in Moscow,
declined to comment.  
 Uralkali  depositary receipts rose 5.2 percent to $19.93 in
London, the highest closing price since May 5. The company’s
stock didn’t trade in Moscow today because of a public holiday
in Russia.  
 Kaliha, owned by billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov , acquired 25
percent of Uralkali, the largest stake. The buyers paid $23 for
each depositary receipt, according to Interfax, which valued the
company at $9.8 billion. Rybolovlev has no plans to dispose of
his remaining 12.4 percent share and will continue to take a
role in the company, the news service said.  
 Rybolovlev is ranked by the Russian edition of Forbes
magazine as the country’s 10th richest man, with a fortune of
$8.6 billion. He also owns about 25 percent of larger competitor
OAO Silvinit.  
 Uralkali owns half of trader Belarusian Potash Co., which
controls 29 percent of the global market for the nutrient,
according to the company’s website. Uralkali cut potash output
by 45 percent last year to 2.6 million metric tons as demand for
the fertilizer dropped.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Amanda Jordan  in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Corcoran  in Moscow at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        