-- Vale Credit Costs Falling Versus BHP Billiton as Reliance on China Eases
-- Ye Xie
-- 2010-06-14T16:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/vale-credit-costs-falling-versus-bhp-billiton-as-reliance-on-china-eases.html

          
          
             Vale SA , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, is driving borrowing costs relative to BHP
Billiton Ltd. down from a one-month high by reducing its
dependence on China.  
 The 5.625 percent bonds due in 2019 sold by Rio de Janeiro-
based Vale yield 106 basis points, or 1.06 percentage point,
more than similar-maturity notes from BHP Billiton, the largest
mining company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
difference in yields narrowed from 112 on June 8, the biggest
gap since May 7 and more than the average spread of 85 since
Vale issued the bonds in September.  
 “We don’t see any fundamental reason for Vale to
underperform at this time,” said  Christopher Buck , an emerging-
market credit analyst for Barclays Plc in New York. “That
dislocation relative to its peers, such as Rio Tinto and BHP,
should allow investors to pick up yield over time.”  
 Vale is trimming shipments to China, its largest market by
revenue, after steel prices there fell about 10 percent from an
April 15 high amid government moves to curb property
speculation.  China  accounted for 32 percent of Vale’s first-
quarter revenue, compared with 45 percent a year earlier,
according to New York-based CreditSights Inc. The company’s
share from China may drop this year as “a lot of other markets
are growing very fast,” Vale Executive Director  Jose Carlos Martin  said June 1 in Shanghai.  
 Prices Decline  
 The yield on Vale’s $1 billion of 2019 bonds fell seven
basis points on June 11 to 5.22 percent. Yields had soared to a
five-week high of 5.29 percent the previous day from 4.82
percent May 14 as concern the European debt crisis and China’s
measures to slow growth sparked declines in metal prices.  
 Vale’s bonds yielded about six basis points more than
similar-maturity securities from Rio Tinto Plc at 9:10 a.m. in
New York.  
 Prices for 62 percent iron-content ore arriving at Chinese
ports  dropped 16 percent  in May to $145.2 a ton, the biggest
decline since March 2009, according to The Steel Index.  
 The yield on Melbourne-based BHP Billiton’s $1.75 billion
of 2019 notes climbed one basis point to 4.33 percent since May
14. BHP is  rated  A1 by Moody’s Investors Service, four levels
higher than Vale’s Baa2.  
 Vale has no comment, said a company official who declined
to be identified in accordance with corporate policy.  
 Beyond Asia  
 BHP, Vale and London-based Rio Tinto compete to supply the
Chinese market and Chinese steelmakers have been resisting
efforts by these suppliers to raise iron ore contract prices for
the July quarter, according to the China Iron & Steel
Association.  
 China began toughening enforcement of soybean oil import
standards from Argentina in April as it seeks to lower costs.
The Asian nation is the world’s largest importer of soybean oil.
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will travel
to China in July in part to discuss the trade dispute.  
 With China pushing back on prices, Vale is looking beyond
Asia for growth. The company agreed to pay $2.5 billion for a 51
percent stake in BSG Resources (Guinea) Ltd. to gain access to
iron-ore deposits in the West African nation, according to a
company statement April 30. Vale said on May 2 that it’s selling
aluminum assets to Norsk Hydro ASA in a $4.9 billion deal
because the business had limited growth potential. As part of
the transaction, Vale will become the Oslo-based company’s
second-largest shareholder.  
 Yield Spread  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries narrowed 14
basis points at 12:38 p.m. in New York to 229. The spread has
increased from 196 at the end of April.  
 The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps fell one basis
point at the end of last week to 141, according to data compiled
by CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 The real strengthened 0.4 percent to 1.8029 per dollar.
Last week, it gained 3 percent, the biggest advance in a month.
The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January, the most active in Sao Paulo trading, climbed four
basis points to 11.18 percent.  
 Vale bonds may also benefit from a quarterly pricing
mechanism that will allow the company to replace annual
contracts on iron ore prices with a three-month average of
several indexes,  Andrew Brady , a New York-based analyst with
CreditSights, wrote in a report June 9.  
 Higher Prices  
 “Vale is poised to recognize significantly higher prices
over the coming quarters,” he said.  
 Vale’s bonds remain vulnerable to a slump in commodities,
according to  Bevan Rosenbloom , an emerging-market debt
strategist with RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut.  
  The Bloomberg Base Metals Spot Price Commodity Index  is
down 5.8 percent since May 14.  
 “The continuation of the weakness of the commodity
environment doesn’t bode well for the company,” Rosenbloom
said. “It’s a commodity play. The company has such strong
fundamentals that there’s almost no default risk.”  
 Vale’s  first-quarter profit  rose 18 percent to $1.6 billion
on rising demand for iron ore, the raw material for steelmaking,
after earnings missed  analysts’ estimates  in the fourth quarter.
Vale had $11 billion in cash and marketable securities and $25.3
billion of total debt at the end of 2009, according to Fitch
Ratings Inc.  
 ‘Strong Capital’  
 Vale is building a fleet of ships to create a shuttle
service between Brazil and China and also constructing
distribution centers in the Middle East and Asia to challenge
BHP and Rio Tinto, whose iron-ore mines in Australia are closer
to China. Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton also compete with Vale as
the world’s second- and third-largest iron ore exporters.  
 Vale “has strong capital and it’s geographically
diversified,” said  Joseph Bormann , a corporate debt analyst
with Fitch Ratings Inc. in Chicago.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        