-- Venezuela Takes Control of Banco Federal for `Grave Financial Situation'
-- Corina Rodriguez Pons
-- 2010-06-14T21:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/venezuela-takes-control-of-banco-federal-for-grave-financial-situation-.html

          
          
             Venezuela took control of  Banco
Federal CA  and suspended the bank’s operations due to a “grave
financial situation.” Clients rushed to withdraw deposits.  
 Government receivers will determine whether the bank will
be “rehabilitated” or closed,  Edgar Behrens , the government’s
banking superintendent, told reporters today. The bank had been
under administrative watch since October and officials were
repeatedly told to recapitalize it, Behrens said. The government
told Federal to add 1.5 billion bolivars ($349.2 million) and it
collected only 100 million bolivars, he said.  
 “They had plenty of time to make adjustments, but the
weaknesses continued,” Behrens said. “We’ve been forced to
take this extreme decision to close the bank.”  
 Venezuela has closed more than 12 lenders since November
after speculation about insolvency led to withdrawals and
President  Hugo Chavez  threatened to nationalize the industry.
The government arrested 16 bankers and issued more than 40
arrest warrants for others who fled the country on charges of
diversion of deposits and failing to prove the origin of some
funds.  
 More than 200 clients swarmed a branch of Banco Federal
today in the El Rosal district of Caracas, some waiting more
than two hours to try to withdraw their deposits.  
 Venezuela’s  deposit guarantee fund  guarantees accounts of
as much as 30,000 bolivars. The fund will set aside 2.1 billion
bolivars to pay 273,000 clients, Behrens said today.  
 Hoping to Withdraw  
 Grecia Marcano, a 50-year-old client waiting outside the El
Rosal branch, said that online access to her account is blocked.  
 “I opened my first account when I got married 22 years ago
in this bank,” she said. “I have more than the amount
protected by the government so I came to wait in line.”  
 Nelson Mezerhane , Banco Federal’s president and director of
opposition television network  Globovision , said that the
decision is politically motivated and that the state repeatedly
withdrew deposits to debilitate the institution.  
 “This is totally arbitrary and a gross offense to
Venezuelans,” Mezerhane said in comments on Globovision.  
 On June 11, the government issued an arrest warrant for
 Guillermo Zuloaga , Mezerhane’s partner at Globovision. The
charge relates to a fleet of new cars found at his residence
more than a year ago.  
 Chavez said yesterday that no private banks would survive
the withdrawal of public deposits, adding that he had no
intention of carrying out such a measure. He criticized
Mezerhane earlier this year for saying that the banking crisis
was sparked by the government.  
 Banco Federal was the country’s 11th-largest bank, with
deposits of 7.66 billion bolivars, or 2.82 percent of total
deposits in the banking system, at the end of April, according
to data from  Softline Consultores .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        