-- Chavez Sets $50,000-a-Day Purchase Limit for Companies in Currency Market
-- Jose Orozco
-- 2010-06-14T18:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/venezuela-sets-limits-for-currency-market-purchases-to-tame-dollar-demand.html

          
          
             Venezuela’s central bank set
restrictions today on how much companies and individuals can buy
through a new currency market in a bid to tame demand for
dollars and anchor the country’s third official exchange rate.  
 Companies will be limited to buying $50,000 a day through
the market administered by the central bank and a maximum of
$350,000 a month, the bank said today in a  statement  on its
website. Individuals are restricted to $10,000 a year in special
cases, including health and education needs, the bank said.  
 President  Hugo Chavez  dismantled an unregulated currency
market last month after the bolivar slid to a record low of 8.2
per dollar on May 11, fueling  spiraling inflation . Venezuelans
must now use their principal banks as an intermediary to buy
dollar-denominated securities and sell them abroad to obtain
dollars at a government-set exchange rate.  
 “By restricting demand, it seems you can supply the
market,”  Alejandro Grisanti , an analyst at Barclays Plc in New
York, said today in a phone interview. “Big companies and
individuals are the most affected. There’s still no response
from this system.”  
 Supply the Market  
 Venezuelan banks have begun to sell some of their $2.7
billion of dollar bond holdings to supply the market and
brokerages are being ordered to sell their estimated $1.2
billion of bonds to supply the market.  
 Venezuelans turned to the unregulated market when they
couldn’t get approval to buy dollars at the official rates of
2.6 and 4.3 per dollar. The government’s  Foreign Exchange Board ,
known as Cadivi, sells dollars at the official rates for imports
of essential and non-essential goods.  
 Cadivi limits the amount of dollars individuals can buy at
the official rate of 4.3 for travel and purchases abroad each
year to a maximum of $3,000.  
 Under the new rules, Venezuelans can purchase a maximum of
$6,000 a year for remittances and $5,000 a year for travel and
purchases abroad through the currency market at the central
bank, according to today’s statement.  
 Trading at the central bank’s currency market began on June
9 and operations have been done at an  average exchange rate  of
5.27 per dollar, within a price band set each day by the bank.  
 “The black market exchange rate is going to become the
price reference, it’s the one that flows freely according to
supply and demand and the one that Venezuelans consider the real
price of the currency,” Grisanti said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        