-- Vuvuzela Horns May Spread to English Soccer Stadiums After World Cup
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-06-17T00:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/vuvuzela-horn-s-different-sound-doesn-t-need-world-cup-ban-blatter-says.html

          
          
             Vuvuzelas, the foot-long trumpets
that are creating the buzz at the World Cup in South Africa, may
spread to English soccer stadiums next season, players and
officials say.  
 The plastic horns are set to sell out at U.K. supermarket
J. Sainsbury Plc, which has sold 50,000 of the 70,000 it
purchased, Chief Executive  Justin King  said on a call with
journalists yesterday. There are no rules banning musical
instruments from Premier League stadiums, league spokesman  Nick Noble  said.  
 “It will be down to stadium managers, in consultation with
supporter groups, to determine what is appropriate,” the league
said in a statement.  
 The drone of the vuvuzelas has become part of the
experience of Africa’s first World Cup. Fans blow them
throughout matches, drowning out the referee’s whistle, the
players’ attempts to communicate and stadium announcements.
Hearing aid maker Phonak AG estimates the noise reaches 127
decibels, louder than a chainsaw.  
 U.S. goalkeeper Brad Guzan, who plays for Aston Villa, said
he expects vuvuzelas to appear in the Premier League next
season. The horns are selling for 2 pounds ($2.96) each at
Sainsbury, which King said is the only U.K. supermarket to stock
them.  
 “I wouldn’t be surprised to see a few of those in the
crowds next year,” Guzan said yesterday. “It would add even
more to the singing and chanting that the clubs have in
England.”  
 Blatter Backing  
 FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said three days ago that the
playing of vuvuzelas at soccer matches is a local fan tradition
and that he doesn’t foresee the horns being banned from World
Cup games in South Africa.  
 “Would you want to see a ban on the fan traditions in your
country?” Blatter said on his Twitter page. “I have always
said that Africa has a different rhythm, a different sound.”  
 Local organizers then said use of the vuvuzelas will
continue to be allowed during the tournament and that “the
status quo hasn’t changed.”  
 “The Organizing Committee has noted isolated comments from
players, broadcasters and fans about the vuvuzela’s impact
during matches,” Chief Communications Officer  Rich Mkhondo  said
in an e-mailed statement. “The Organizing Committee continues
to evaluate the use of vuvuzelas on an on-going basis.”  
 West Ham defender  Jonathan Spector  said he doesn’t expect
crowds in England to embrace horn blowing next season.  
 “The English have a great culture of singing and chanting
and I love that atmosphere,” he said. “The atmosphere here is
great, but it’s two different cultures. I think it’s just World
Cup fever instead of something that will catch on in England.”  
 The U.S. squad member said he’ll still be taking a few home
for family in America.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in Johannesburg through the London sports desk
at   celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The drone of the plastic horns has become part of the experience of the World Cup. Photographer Liu Jin/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 16 (Bloomberg) -- J Sainsbury Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket chain, said it expects to sell out vuvuzela horns within 48 hours as British fans seek to recreate the atmosphere inside South Africa’s World Cup soccer stadiums. The blaring of the yard-long plastic vuvuzelas throughout games during the first week of the tournament and have also spurred earplug sales and sparked mobile-phone applications. Bloomberg's Michele Steele reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 17 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Matt Teale reports from Johannesburg on the Vuvuzela, the foot-long trumpets that are creating the buzz at the World Cup in South Africa.
     The drone of the vuvuzelas has become part of the experience of Africa’s first World Cup. Fans blow them throughout matches, drowning out the referee’s whistle, the players’ attempts to communicate and stadium announcements. Hearing aid maker Phonak AG estimates the noise reaches 127 decibels, louder than a chainsaw. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
