-- Westwood Gets England's Second Win on PGA Golf Tour in a Week at St. Jude
-- Dex McLuskey
-- 2010-06-14T04:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/westwood-wins-second-pga-tour-golf-title-in-final-event-before-u-s-open.html

          
          
             Lee Westwood  became the second
Englishman in a week to win on golf’s PGA Tour when he drained a
five-foot birdie putt on the fourth playoff hole at the St. Jude
Classic, the last event before the U.S. Open.  
 Westwood, playing in the tournament for the first time,
beat  Robert Karlsson  of Sweden to collect his second win on the
world’s richest golf tour. Westwood’s previous victory came a
week before the 1998 Masters Tournament at the Freeport-
McDermott Classic in New Orleans.  
 “It’s definitely nice to win again,” Westwood said at a
news conference. “I’ve been in contention a lot, especially
this year, and I suppose I got a break today with other people’s
misfortune, but made the most of it and took a chance.”  
 The victory at the TPC Southwind in Memphis is worth $1.01
million to the 37-year-old Englishman, the first player from
Europe to win at Memphis, a stop on the PGA Tour since 1958.
Westwood’s win follows countryman  Justin Rose ’s breakthrough
victory at the Memorial Tournament last week.  
 Westwood has climbed to No. 3 in the world after four other
top-10 finishes in the U.S. this year. The 37-year-old was
second at the Masters and tied for fourth at the Players
Championship. He also had two runner-up performances and a
third-place finish on the European Tour.  
 Westwood, a 20-time winner on the European Tour, and
Karlsson went into the three-way playoff after  Robert Garrigus 
made a triple bogey on the last hole of regulation play. A
double bogey would have been sufficient to get the 32-year-old
from Scottsdale, Arizona, his first tour victory.  
 Triple Bogey  
 Garrigus struck his tee shot at the 18th into a lake and
left his next shot among trees. He played out over the lake and
two-putted for a seven. He was eliminated at the first extra
hole when he made bogey after leaving his tee shot behind a
tree.  
 “It’s really tough,” Garrigus told CBS correspondent
 David Feherty  in a televised interview. “I’m glad I even got
into the playoff.”  
 Westwood, Karlsson and Garrigus finished the tournament
with four-round totals of 10-under-par 270. Westwood had a 2-
under-par 68 on the final day, Karlsson had a 69 and Garrigus
scored 71.  
 The 41-year-old Karlsson, who finished 2008 as the European
Tour’s top money winner, has dropped to No. 34 in the  Official
World Golf Rankings  after being sidelined for five months last
year with a condition that left him with blurred vision. He’s
won 10 times on the European Tour, the most by a Swedish player.  
 Before flying to Tennessee, Westwood went to California to
play Pebble Beach, the venue for this week’s U.S. Open. The
year’s second major championship is scheduled to begin June 17.  
 “Because I’ve been to Pebble Beach and done most of my
preparation, I can take it easy with that for the next three
days and build up my fitness and stamina for when the
tournaments kicks off,” Westwood said. “I can take it pretty
easy the next few days.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        