-- Wheat Advances on Forecast for Production in Canada and Weakening Dollar
-- Rudy Ruitenberg
-- 2010-06-14T12:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/wheat-advances-on-drop-in-dollar-amid-lower-output-forecast-in-canada.html

          
          
             Wheat rose for a third day in
Chicago on a forecast that excessive rain will reduce planting
in Canada, the world’s second-biggest exporter, and on a weaker
dollar.  
 Wheat for September delivery gained 1.4 percent to $4.6325
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 1:15 p.m. London time.  
 Wheat farmers in western Canada will sow the fewest acres
since 1971 because of low prices and excess rain, the Canadian
Wheat Board said June 11. Spring-wheat acreage is expected to
fall 9 percent from last year and seeding of the durum variety
of the grain may drop 40 percent, according to  Bruce Burnett ,
the CWB’s director of weather and market analysis.  
 “The situation in Canada is raising concerns,” Bourges,
France-based farm adviser Offre et Demande Agricole said in an
e-mailed comment today. “The drop in area could reach 2 million
hectares (4.9 million acres) in Saskatchewan and Manitoba. That
would be enormous.”  
 Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris climbed 0.4 percent to 137 euros ($168.09) a metric
ton, the first gain in six days.  
 “The spring wheat crop has been delayed materially, and
indeed has been delayed so much that a huge sum of acres that
would normally be planted will not be,” economist  Dennis Gartman  said concerning Canada in his daily newsletter.  
 Dollar Slumps  
 Chicago wheat also benefited from a weaker dollar as the
euro rose to its highest level in more than a week against the
U.S. currency, helped by figures showing that European
industrial production rose more in April than economists had
forecast. When the dollar slumps, U.S. crops become cheaper in
terms of other currencies.  
 “The weaker dollar has lent support to most commodities
today,” said  Hiroyuki Kikukawa , general manager of research at
Tokyo-based IDO Securities Co.  
 The euro gained 1.3 percent to $1.227 after trading as
high as $1.2273, the strongest intraday level since June 3.  
 Corn for December delivery was unchanged at $3.71 a
bushel in Chicago. The December contract climbed 3.2 percent
last week on speculation that shrinking inventories will force
Chinese processors to boost imports from the U.S.  
 China, the second-largest corn user, sold 524,800 tons from
government reserves on June 11 to meet domestic demand, the
National Grain & Oil Information Center said. China may import a
“huge” amount of U.S. corn, Sam Niu Yishan, assistant director
for U.S. Grains Council in Beijing, said in a June 10  report .
 China’s harvest  fell 6.6 percent last year.  
 Soybeans for November delivery added 0.5 percent to $9.14 a
bushel. Rapeseed futures for delivery in November rose 0.6
percent to 322.25 euros a ton on NYSE Liffe.  
 France’s rapeseed harvest, the European Union’s second-
largest, is forecast to drop 17 percent to 4.61 million tons
this year on lower yields, the government reported June 11.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jae Hur  in Tokyo at   jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        