-- Whitacre Seeks `Bigger, Bolder' GM IPO
-- David Welch
-- 2010-06-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/whitacre-seeks-bigger-bolder-gm-ipo-as-32-companies-scrap-initial-sales.html

          
          
             Ed Whitacre  has General Motors Co.
in better shape now than it’s been in years. Pushing ahead with
an initial public offering this year may be tougher to manage.  
 Bonds that convert into GM shares fell at the end of last
week to their lowest level since Feb. 26. GM, which earned
$865 million in the first quarter, is still losing money at its
European unit. Chief Executive Officer Whitacre has less than
four months to meet a goal of setting up a lending division. The
IPO market has stumbled, with 32 deals pulled since April.  
 Whitacre has said he’d like to begin selling shares as soon
as possible. The former  AT&T Inc.  chairman will need to balance
his natural inclination to seek a big IPO against the need to
make it successful for the government, which owns 61 percent of
the automaker, said  James Kahan , a former AT&T executive.  
 “Ed does things that are bolder and bigger rather than
small and timid,” said Kahan, who said he hasn’t discussed the
size of the IPO with Whitacre. “All things being equal, Ed
would like it bigger versus small. But all things aren’t equal.
He needs to get the government the best value for its stake,
too.”  
 The Obama administration needs GM to go public to reduce
its 61 percent stake and harvest returns on its $50 billion
investment.  Morgan Stanley  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are expected
to lead the initial sale, people familiar with the matter said
last week, and a June selection means Detroit-based GM may be
able to sell shares in the fourth quarter.  
 Selim Bingol, a GM spokesman, declined to comment.  
 ‘Only Way’  
 “This is the only way GM is going to be able to get out of
government ownership,” said  Rebecca Lindland , a forecaster at
IHS Global Insight in Lexington, Massachusetts. “The company is
in significantly better shape than it has been in a long time.”  
 At least five investment banks competed to handle the sale,
which may be worth as much as $12 billion, making it the second-
largest in a decade. Morgan Stanley and  JPMorgan , both based in
New York, would be responsible for writing the prospectus and
promoting the shares to potential investors, said two people who
asked not to be identified because the decision isn’t final.  
 A successful IPO may be the biggest challenge so far for
Whitacre, who as chairman also led the board that ousted  Fritz Henderson  from the CEO job in December. He’s reassigned a
majority of top executives and is pushing for a return to
profitability.  
 Not Too Big  
 GM’s sale will come after at least 32 companies worldwide
postponed or withdrew initial offerings since the start of May,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. IPOs have dried up as concern
that the European debt crisis is spreading beyond Greece and
slower-than-estimated U.S. jobs growth in May helped push the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down 10 percent from its 2010  high 
on April 23.  
 “Can the market absorb a multibillion deal of General
Motors? Yeah, in a heartbeat,” said  William Smith , president of
Smith Asset Management in New York, who used to own shares of
GM. “It’s General Motors. The question then becomes is it
valuable and is it worth buying on the IPO?”  
 Since 1999, four U.S. IPOs have exceeded $5 billion --  Visa
Inc.’s  $19.7 billion deal in 2008, AT&T Wireless Group’s
$10.6 billion offering in 2000,  Kraft Foods Inc.’s  $8.68 billion
deal in 2001 and  United Parcel Service Inc.’s  $5.47 billion sale
in 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The banks want to sell about half of the government stake
to the 20 top institutional investors, said one person familiar
with the plans. The largest institutional investors include
Vanguard Group Inc. and Fidelity Investments.  
 ‘Patriotic Responsibility’  
 “I’d almost feel a patriotic responsibility to look at
it,” said  Jim Porter , founder of Hinsdale, Illinois-based New
Century Capital Management LLC. “It’s certainly more
streamlined and a lot more interesting than it ever has been in
the past.”  
 GM is losing money in Europe after Whitacre and the board
overruled an agreement Henderson negotiated to sell a majority
of the Opel unit to a group led by  Magna International Inc.  GM
reported a  loss  of $500 million before interest and taxes in
Europe in the first quarter, in contrast to a $1.2 billion
profit in North America.  
 Also, U.S. auto sales to retail customers fell in May as
sales to so-called fleet customers buoyed an annual sales rate
of 11.6 million cars and trucks,  Brian Johnson , a Barclays
Capital analyst, wrote in a June 8 report. GM’s 38 percent of
sales from fleet, which is less profitable than retail, was the
second highest monthly percentage on record, he said.  
 ‘Excellent’ Potential  
 “GM’s earnings potential is excellent because it finally
has a healthy North American unit and can focus its marketing
efforts on just four brands instead of eight,”  David Whiston ,
an analyst at Morningstar Investment Services Inc. in Chicago,
said in a June 7 report.  
 Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell ’s comments on the
first quarter earnings call imply that GM’s North American unit
will break even at a U.S. light-vehicle level of around
11 million units, Whiston said in the report.  
 “We think the normative demand for U.S. light-vehicles is
14-16 million units so we expect GM to be printing money as
vehicle demand comes back over the next few years,” he said.  
 Whitacre also wants the company to have an automotive-
lending unit before going public, people familiar with the plan
have said. GM hasn’t had such a subsidiary since former CEO  Rick Wagoner  sold 51 percent of GMAC to private-equity firm Cerberus
Capital Management LP in 2006.  
 Timing Factors  
 The timing of the offering will depend on GM’s
profitability, the health of the economy and the state of
capital markets, three people familiar with the matter said last
week. The size of the stock sale hasn’t been determined yet,
said one person familiar with the plan.  
 The sale may raise as much as $12 billion, an estimate by
Independent International Investment Research Plc showed.  
 GM’s equity is worth $70 billion, according to a May 20
report by  Eric Selle , a JPMorgan debt analyst who projects a
return of 47 cents on the dollar for holders of bonds issued by
GM’s predecessor, General Motors Corp., that will be converted
to stock and warrants in new GM. At June 11 bond prices, GM’s
implied equity value is about $45 billion.  
 The 8.375 percent notes due in 2033 declined 1.5 cents to
30.25 cents on the dollar June 11 in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. That represents a 22 percent decline from
the April 30 peak of 38.81 cents, according to Trace.  
 U.S. Stake  
 For the Treasury to break even, the value of GM would need
to rise to about $80 billion after bondholders and the UAW’s
health-care trust exercise stock warrants that dilute the U.S.
ownership.  
 The U.S. government’s current net investment in the
automaker is $42.2 billion, according to a senior official in
President  Barack Obama ’s administration. GM has repaid
$6.7 billion in loans and paid $600 million in interest and
dividends. The U.S. also holds $2.1 billion in the company’s
preferred shares.  
 “The pun is GM is not in the driver’s seat,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman of
Holland & Co. in New York. “The Treasury’s in the driver’s
seat. There’s no doubt who the decision makers are.”  
 The government has hired  Lazard Ltd.  for $500,000 a month
to advise on selling its stake, according to a document on the
department’s website. Evercore Partners Inc. also is advising GM
on the selection, a person familiar with the matter said.  
 Setting Fees  
 The Treasury said June 10 that it will determine the
underwriters’ fees. The fees will be 0.75 percent, according to
a person briefed on the matter. That would be less than any U.S.
IPO over $5 billion since 1999, Bloomberg data show.  
 “The underwriters are going to view GM as a client they’re
going to have over time,” said  Paul Bard , director of research
at Greenwich, Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital LLC, which
has studied IPOs since 1991. “This isn’t just one transaction.
To an investment bank, GM represents a number of transactions.”  
 Choosing a lead underwriter now allows GM to file an S-1
initial registration form as soon as July and sell shares in
October or November, a person familiar with the matter said.  
 “There’ll be such a close watch on this IPO,” said Steven
M. Rogé, a Bohemia, New York-based manager at R.W. Rogé & Co.,
which oversees $200 million. “It won’t just be financial, it’ll
be political. It might even be more political than financial.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       General Motors Chairman and CEO Ed Whitacre  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         General Motors Chairman and CEO Ed Whitacre pauses at the Treasury in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     General Motors Chairman and CEO Ed Whitacre pauses at the Treasury in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
