-- Wind Hellas Begins Talks With Creditors as Payments on Loans, Bonds Loom
-- John Glover
-- 2010-06-14T15:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/wind-hellas-begins-talks-with-creditors-as-payments-on-loans-bonds-loom.html

          
          
             Wind Hellas Telecommunications SA’s
bonds slid after Greece’s third-biggest mobile-phone operator
said sales and earnings slumped in April and May and it opened
talks with creditors.  
 The company’s 1.23 billion euros ($1.5 billion) of senior
secured floating-rate notes due 2012 declined 10 cents on the
euro to 36.5 cents, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc prices on Bloomberg. Its 356 million euros of 8.5 percent
senior unsecured bonds maturing in 2013 halved in value to 7
cents on the euro, according to RBS.  
 Earnings at the Athens-based company plunged as government
spending cuts and tax increases to tackle Greece’s budget
deficit damaged consumer confidence and dented phone usage. The
bonds tumbled last month on speculation another restructuring
was needed six months after Wind Hellas emerged from bankruptcy.  
 “This isn’t a great situation to be in,” said  Jonathan Moore , an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “The
speed at which it’s deteriorated so soon after the restructuring
has surprised even the most bearish observers.”  
 Sales in the two months dropped 27 percent from the same
period a year earlier, to 134 million euros as government
austerity measures cut consumers’ willingness to spend,
according to a presentation on the company’s Web site. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and
some items fell 54 percent to 25.2 million euros.  
 Two Weeks Left  
 The company effectively has about two weeks to act, said
Moore. It has about 35 million euros in cash and a 17.5 million-
euro amortization payment on a bank loan due at the end of the
month, he said, citing a conference call with management. After
that, it has a 23 million-euro coupon payment on its bonds due
on July 15, he said.  
 “The launch of the Greek government’s austerity measures
in April has further impacted performance, and is putting
significant additional pressure on Wind Hellas’ capital
structure, including its liquidity and covenants,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Wind Hellas said it retained Morgan Stanley, White & Case
and Karatzas & Partners as advisers and they are in discussions
with creditor groups and its shareholder Weather Investments
SpA. Weather Investments is the holding company for Egyptian
billionaire  Naguib Sawiris .  
 Sawiris, who also controls Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, the
biggest mobile-phone operator in the Middle East by users, said
on May 28 he’s “not ruling out” a second debt restructuring at
Wind Hellas.  
 Wind Hellas’s parent Hellas II was sold to Sawiris’s
holding company Weather Investments under last year’s
reorganization. The process wiped about 1.2 billion euros of
debt from the company’s balance sheet and Weather Investments
injected 125 million euros of equity. Wind Hellas has about 1.8
billion euros of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        