-- Won Swap Rate May Head Back Towards Zero on New Rules, Morgan Stanley Says
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-06-14T08:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/won-swap-rate-may-head-back-towards-zero-on-new-rules-morgan-stanley-says.html

          
          
             The rate to swap South Korean won 
for dollars may slump towards zero, a level not seen for a year,
as government curbs on currency derivatives prompt investors to
cut holdings, Morgan Stanley said.  
 The cross-currency swap rate, now at 1.07 percent, may
decline between 50 basis points and 100 basis points,
strategists  Pieter Van Der Schaft  and  Rohit Arora  wrote in a
report today. They predicted “upward pressure” on yields of
Korean treasury bonds maturing in less than two years as
investors who borrowed won in the swap market to invest in
government debt are forced to reduce those trades.  
 The trimming of an estimated $18.7 billion in positions
that exceed the new government limits will probably start once
the new regulations become law in July, Morgan Stanley estimated.
South Korea joins developing nations including China, Brazil,
Colombia and Russia that are tightening rules on capital flows
to limit swings in their currencies.  
 Implementing the rules will “mainly entail an unwinding of
Korea treasury bond and monetary stabilization bond arbitrage
trades,” which will impact both swap rates and the yields on the
debt,’’ the report said, adding that the moves will happen after
the regulations become law in July.  
 Morgan Stanley recommended investors pay fixed won interest
rates. It wrote that they should avoid long positions in the
local bond market funded in the swap market until the gap
between the one-year swap rate and the one-year bond yield
reaches 250 basis points. A long position profits from gains in
asset prices.  
 New Rules  
 The one-year swap rate was less than zero on June 19 last
year, as banks hoarded dollars after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. In a cross-currency swap,
investors pay or receive a variable interest rate in one
currency in exchange for a fixed rate in another currency.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date.  
 The new rules require foreign bank branches to cut
positions of foreign-exchange forwards, options and swaps to 250
percent of equity capital and domestic banks to 50 percent,
according to a statement issued by regulators yesterday. Banks
will be prohibited from increasing positions for three months
and have two years to meet the new ceilings.  
 South Korea’s won strengthened the most in a week on news
of the grace period, climbing 1.9 percent to 1,222.15 per dollar.
It slumped 3.6 percent last week, Asia’s worst performance, as
officials flagged a tightening of currency regulations. Bonds
rose for the first time in three days, with the yield on the 4.5
percent note due 2015 falling two basis points to 4.39 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at   fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        