-- World Cup Investment Picks Offer One Sure Win: Matthew Lynn
-- Matthew Lynn
-- 2010-06-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/world-cup-investment-picks-offer-one-sure-win-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html

          
          
             Price-earnings ratios? Book value?
Charts? They are all perfectly sensible ways of picking stocks
to buy. But as the world’s great sporting tournament gets under
way in South Africa, how about trying something different --
buying shares based on likely winners of soccer’s World Cup.  
 True, designing a portfolio around soccer rather than
financial results isn’t the most scientific way of allocating
assets. It’s probably not the kind of approach that gets you on
the fast track at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 Still, there is little question that sporting triumph or
calamity can affect national moods, and that in turn might just
feed through into the way people spend and invest their money.
What impact is that going to have on the markets, apart from the
fact that your broker isn’t taking any calls after afternoon
games get started?  
 If not some tangible profit, perhaps pondering the
implications might at least return a smile:  
 If Spain wins, expect the euro to survive. If Germany
triumphs, count on it collapsing. Should Brazil collect yet
another trophy, make sure you are long on the BRICs. Or if
Argentina goes all the way, go big on mining and oil stocks.  
 Whatever happens, you want to make sure you’ve positioned
your investments well ahead of the final, scheduled for July 11.  
 So, ranked according to the  odds  quoted by the bookmakers,
here are some trades you should be thinking about -- depending,
of course, on which nation you think will emerge victorious.  
 Buy the Euro  
 1) Spain wins.  
 Buy the euro. For all the talk about Greece, it is Spain
that is the weak link for the unified currency. The European
Union can afford to bail out Greece or Portugal if it has to.
But not Spain -- it is simply too big. Amid the euphoria of
winning their first World Cup, the Spanish will accept any kind
of austerity package imposed upon them by Brussels. A bailout
will be avoided, and the euro saved -- so start buying the
currency now.  
 2) Brazil wins.  
 Buy the BRICs. Yet another win for the flamboyant
Brazilians will remind everyone which countries are the rising
powers in the world and which ones are in decline. Of the BRIC
nations -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- only the
Brazilians have a decent soccer team (although the Russians are
improving fast). But you can expect to see a big lift for all
the BRIC equities, bonds and currencies as investors watch a
member of that group celebrate.  
 Go Raw  
 3) Argentina wins.  
 Buy oil and mining stocks. Argentines have a great team,
and in  Lionel Messi  they probably have the finest player in the
world right now. But they are managed by  Diego Maradona  -- an
eccentric genius with a history of cocaine addiction. If they
triumph, investors will draw a simple lesson: management counts
for little. What’s important is the raw materials. And with that
in mind, they will pile into mining and resources assets.  
 4) England wins.  
 Buy the  FTSE 100 Index . The U.K. isn’t in great shape. The
economy is in tatters. The deficit is as high as Greece’s. Half
the banking system has been nationalized. The new government
looks unstable. And yet if, by some miracle,  Fabio Capello ’s
team can combine some Italian flair and discipline with English
aggression, the country will be reminded that it is always at
its best when it is in a deep hole. Expect a huge rise in
patriotic determination to sort out the nation’s problems -- and
a big jump in the FTSE.  
 Dot-Com  
 5) The Netherlands wins.  
 Buy  dot-com  shares. The Dutch started out this tournament
in the same state they started every other one, with lots of
potential and talent -- and just about no chance of turning that
into actual results. If the team astounds everyone and actually
lifts the trophy this year, investors will draw the lesson that,
just sometimes, excitement and skill does translate into
profits. They’ll pile into dot-com and technology shares as if
it were 1999 all over again.  
 6) Germany wins.  
 Sell the euro. The Germans haven’t got a great team, at
least not by their historically high standards. But their
traditional virtues of discipline, hard work and organization
may well pull them through. If so, the Germans will be reminded
of the superiority of the Teutonic values of thrift and
diligence, and wonder even more than they already do why they
have tied their economy to a bunch of layabout Mediterraneans.
The euro will collapse before the end of the year -- so start
selling now.  
 Bye-Bye Baseball  
 You might want to allocate a small portion of your
portfolio to one of the outsiders winning, or perhaps just
making the final. What would happen if the U.S. won the World
Cup? Well, you’d want to be short any assets related to
baseball, basketball or American football; if America started
being any good at the game the rest of the world plays, it
wouldn’t need its own sports.  
 Or how about a South Korea versus North Korea final? Buy
defense manufacturers. World War III would probably kick-off
just as soon as the referee blew the final whistle, though at
odds of 250-to-1 and 400-to-1 respectively, it is, thankfully,
fairly unlikely.  
 Finally, if the tournament is a success, as it almost
certainly will be, expect to see a rise in all the African
markets. Investors will note that African countries are
perfectly capable of staging modern, global events and will
start taking more of an interest in the potential of the
continent.  
 In fact, that is one outcome you can probably guarantee.
And the profits on that trade will hopefully make up for the
likely disappointment of seeing your own team on an early plane
home.  
 ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Matthew Lynn  in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- The 1-1 draw with England in its opening game of the World Cup was the most-watched game for the U.S. national soccer team since 1994, ESPN said. The match, shown on ABC, averaged 13 million viewers and attracted the biggest audience for any game at the tournament in South Africa so far, the broadcaster said. Bloomberg's Michele Steele reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
