-- World Cup's Jabulani Soccer Ball From Adidas Leaves Goalkeepers Struggling
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-06-14T11:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/world-cup-s-jabulani-soccer-ball-from-adidas-leaves-goalkeepers-strugglig.html

          
          
             England goalkeeper  Robert Green 
can’t blame the new  Adidas AG  soccer ball for his fumble that
gave the U.S. a 1-1 tie in the team’s World Cup match, according
to the supplier.  
 Goalkeepers expressed concerns about the new “Jabulani”
model before the event started, and Green’s inability to catch
the ball evened the Group C match two days ago. Yesterday,
Algeria’s Faouzi Chaouchi pushed Robert Koren’s shot into his
own goal, giving Slovenia a 1-0 victory. Both goalkeepers failed
to block the slow shots even though they looked well positioned.  
 Adidas, based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, says the high-
profile mistakes have nothing to do with the new ball. It was
designed for the World Cup in South Africa, and the company says
it’s the roundest yet. Goalkeepers say the 440-gram Jabulani,
which means “to rejoice” in the Zulu language, is unsteady and
unpredictable in the air.  
 “It’s rubbish,” England backup goalkeeper  David James 
said in a June 12 interview in Rustenburg. “It’s just not a
very good football. But everyone’s gotta play with the same ball
and those who can manipulate it the best have an advantage.”  
 Adidas, which is sponsoring the world’s most-watched
sporting event, said the players have had enough time to get
used to the ball, which was released at the beginning of the
year. The ball fits the criteria laid down by soccer’s governing
body, FIFA, Adidas spokesman Erik van Leeuwen said yesterday.  
 “People have to adapt themselves to it,” Van Leeuwen said
in a telephone interview from Johannesburg. “It’s nothing to do
with the Jabulani.”  
 Tactics  
 Adidas has been making the World Cup ball since Mexico
hosted the event in 1970. Jabulani is the first ball for the
tournament to be molded of eight “thermally bonded 3D panels,
creating a perfect sphere, replacing previous models with flat
panels, according to FIFA’s website. The ball has an aerodynamic
profile enhancing control and stabilizing flight, it said.  
 Bayer AG , the inventor of Aspirin, supplied adhesives and
coating for Jabulani, the company said.  
 Ghana will fire more shots at goal to exploit the ball’s
irregular movement, coach Milovan Rajevac said after beating
Serbia 1-0 in Pretoria yesterday. So far, the nine goals scored
in the first eight matches are the lowest number at that stage
in the tournament’s past 20 years.  
 “When it comes to the football, you can see how dangerous
some shots can be,” Rajevac told reporters. “We’ve had several
surprises and wanted to shoot at goal as much as possible
because every opportunity could be a goal.”  
 ‘Tested and Proven’  
 All participating countries approved the new ball in
February, FIFA spokesman  Nicolas Maingot  told reporters at the
Soccer City stadium in Johannesburg today.  
 “It has been tested and proven,” Maingot said. “There
are no official complaints to FIFA I’m aware of.”  
 England’s Green would not have let the ball previously used
slip, Serbia’s goalkeeper Vladimir Stojkovic said in an
interview yesterday. “Green wouldn’t have made a mistake with a
normal ball,” he said.  
 “I don’t want to make any excuses about the ball,” Green
told reporters after the game. “It might have moved, I don’t
know.”  
 Six of the 10 stadiums being used in the tournament are
above 1,200 meters (3,937 feet), where the air is thinner. That
may be affecting the movement of the ball, Van Leeuwen said. A
ball kicked at altitude travels 5 percent faster than one kicked
in Durban, which is at sea-level, he said.  
 Green’s mistake was “not because of the ball,” Van
Leeuwen of Adidas said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Franz Wild  at Loftus Versfeld at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     England's goalkeeper Robert Green reacts after missing a goal during their Group C first round 2010 World Cup football match at Royal Bafokeng stadium in Rustenburg. Photographer: Hoang Dinh Nam/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
