-- Yen Weakens for Third Day on Global Economic Recovery Signs; Euro Advances
-- Ron Harui
-- 2010-06-14T10:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/yen-falls-versus-euro-on-signs-global-economic-recovery-gaining-traction.html

          
          
             The yen declined against the euro
and the dollar for a third day on signs the global economic
recovery is gaining momentum, damping demand for the safety of
Japan’s currency.  
 The yen weakened versus all 16 of its major counterparts as
Asian stocks rallied after an index of U.S. consumer confidence
increased. The euro strengthened to the highest level in more
than a week against the dollar after a report showed industrial
production in the 16-nation region expanded at a faster pace
than predicted by economists. South Korea’s won advanced after
policy makers refrained from imposing controls on capital flows.  
 “The yen declined on some initial signs of economic
recovery,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “But our view is that this
is a near-term correction. The underlying theme in the market
remains uncertainty and aversion to risk.”  
 The yen fell 1.3 percent to 112.39 per euro at 6:40 a.m. in
New York from 111 last week, after earlier dropping to 112.67,
the weakest since June 4. Japan’s currency fell to 91.88 per
dollar from 91.65. The euro climbed to $1.2255 from $1.2112,
after reaching $1.2258, the strongest since June 3.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index of shares gained 1.5 percent
after the  MSCI World Index  advanced 1.9 percent last week. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 1.1 percent. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of U.S.
consumer sentiment rose to 75.5, the highest since January 2008,
from 73.6 in May, the June 11 report showed.  
 Industrial Production  
 The euro extended last week’s advance against the dollar
and the yen after a report showed European industrial production
rose more than economists forecast. Production expanded 0.8
percent in April from March, when it increased 1.6 percent.
Economists had projected a 0.5 percent gain.  
 The European Central Bank will buy government bonds until
the financial markets calm down, the Nikkei newspaper yesterday
reported Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  as saying. The
euro’s level is still within a normal range, Nowotny said.  
 “In the absence of any bad news about Europe, the euro
correction could still have some room to go,” analysts led by
 Marc Chandler , New York-based global head of currency strategy
at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., wrote in a note to clients.  
 The  difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those betting on a gain was near a record on June 8, according
to the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  
 Futures positions, when they reach an extreme, are
sometimes viewed as a contrarian indicator because traders often
seek to cut positions when momentum in a currency shifts.  
 BIS Report  
 The Bank of International Settlements said the euro’s slump
this year may benefit the region, fuelling a resumption of
economic growth by making local products cheaper than imported
goods. The record budget deficits in countries including Greece
had spurred speculation the 16-nation currency union may split.  
 The euro has dropped about 20 percent since Nov. 25.  Camilo Tovar , one of authors of the BIS report published today, defined
a currency collapse as when an exchange rate drops about 22
percent over the course of a year.  
 The Swedish  krona , viewed as a refuge from turmoil in the
euro region, rose against 13 of the 16 most active currencies,
trading at 7.798 against the dollar from 7.91 yesterday. Against
the common currency, it appreciated to 9.55 per euro from 9.58.
Sweden is likely to have the smallest budget deficit in the
European Union in 2010 and 2011, according to EU forecasts.  
 Korean Won  
 South Korea’s currency gained for a second day versus the
dollar after the government and central bank said yesterday that
lenders will be required to rein in use of foreign-exchange
forwards, options and swaps to reduce volatility in capital
flows and the won. They stopped short of imposing capital
controls.  
 “We finally know what these rules are and that has cleared
the uncertainty,” said  Jun Woo Ha , a Seoul-based currency
dealer at Daegu Bank.  
 The won rose 2 percent to 1,222.15 per dollar, after
slumping 3.6 percent last week.  
 The New Zealand dollar fell against the so-called Aussie
after central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said the strong
currency has hindered efforts to reduce the country’s large
investment-income deficit and overall external liabilities.  
 ‘Has Not Helped’  
 “The trade balance has improved with strong export prices
and less demand for imports,” Bollard said in a speech in
Wellington. “But a large deficit on the investment income
balance is showing no signs of enduring improvement and the
strong New Zealand dollar has not helped.”  
 New Zealand’s currency has risen 7.8 percent against the
greenback in the past 12 months. The so-called kiwi fell 0.4
percent to NZ$1.2369 per Australian dollar.  
 The biggest foreign-exchange  fluctuations  since the
aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. are
signaling waning confidence in the economic recovery and
prospects for a rebound in the euro.  
 The euro’s 15 percent plunge against the dollar this year
sparked a 6 percent loss for bets tied to foreign-exchange price
volatility, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
indexes. That’s the worst performance among four currency
strategies tracked by RBS and compares with a 22 percent gain
last year, when the global economy rebounded.  
 Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, the failure of regional
leaders to improve sentiment toward the euro and diverging
growth rates around the world means elevated volatility for
years, according to UBS AG. Less predictable foreign-exchange
levels may endanger the recovery by driving up short-term  rates ,
even as a weaker euro stimulates exports, the world’s second-
largest currency trader said.  
 “The sources of concern won’t go away anytime soon,” said
 Dale Thomas , head of currencies in London at Insight Investment
Management Ltd., which oversees about $144 billion. “We’re
defensive and still don’t like the euro.” Thomas said he owns
the Swiss franc and the Japanese yen.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net 
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The yen declined to 111.84 per euro as of 9:02 a.m. in Tokyo from 111.00 in New York on June 11. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 11 (Bloomberg) -- Nobel Prize winning economist Robert Mundell talks with Bloomberg's Matt Miller and Dominic Chu about the euro and the dollar's impact on the U.S. economic recovery.
     Mundell also discusses the role of the Federal Reserve in the currency market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
