-- Euro Pares Gains After Moody's Downgrades Greece's Credit Rating to Junk
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-14T20:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-14/yen-weakens-for-third-day-on-global-economic-recovery-signs-euro-advances.html

          
          
             The euro pared gains against the
dollar after Moody’s Investors Service lowered Greece’s credit
rating to non-investment grade, signaling the region’s
governments may struggle to narrow their budget deficits.  
 Europe’s common currency earlier climbed the most versus
the greenback in more than two weeks after a report showing the
region’s industrial production expanded at a faster pace than
forecast prompted traders to unwind bets it would decline. The
yen reversed its losses against the dollar as stocks and crude
oil pared gains, spurring demand for the currency as a refuge.  
 “The downgrade of Greece was certainly well anticipated;
the timing was not,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency
strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., world’s
largest custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets
under administration. “It continues to draw attention to the
still unresolved problems of the EU.”  
 The euro rose 1 percent to $1.2228 at 4:16 p.m. in New
York, from $1.2112. It earlier advanced as much as 1.5 percent,
the most on an intraday basis since May 27. It rose 0.8 percent
to 111.89 yen, from 111. Japan’s currency gained 0.2 percent to
91.50 per dollar from 91.65 after earlier falling as much as 0.5
percent.  
 Moody’s said it downgraded Greece’s government bond ratings
by four levels to Ba1, below investment grade, from A3. The
outlook is stable, the company said. Moody’s cited the country’s
economic “risks.”  
 ‘Been Warned’  
 “The market’s been warned that the bad news from Europe is
not out of the way,” said  Lane Newman , director of foreign
exchange at ING Groep NV in New York. “At the moment, it’s
unlikely the fundamental news or sentiment will change for the
euro.”  
 The European Union last month announced a rescue package of
almost $1 trillion, with support from the International Monetary
Fund, to shore up the finances of the region’s weakest
economies.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.2 percent after
earlier gaining as much as 1.3 percent. Crude oil for July
delivery rose 1.6 percent on the New York Mercantile Exchange
after earlier increasing as much as 3 percent.  
 “We’re seeing people pull back on their risk trades
because the Greece scenario is bringing back the problem that
has been of much concern over the past few months,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research, with online currency trader
GFT Forex, in New York.  
 Decline Bets  
 The  difference  in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those betting on a gain was near a record on June 8, according
to the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  
 Futures positions, when they reach an extreme, are
sometimes viewed as a contrarian indicator because traders often
seek to cut positions when momentum in a currency shifts.  
 “This is a short covering rally,” said  Win Thin , a senior
currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York. “There is extreme positioning. This is one time when it’s
a crowded trade but it’s the right trade. There’s still nothing
to like about the euro.”  
 The euro extended last week’s advance against the dollar
and the yen after a report showed European industrial production
expanded 0.8 percent in April, more than economists forecast,
after a 1.6 percent increase in March.  
 ‘Completely Unproblematic’  
 The Bank of International Settlements said the euro’s 15
percent slump this year may fuel a resumption of economic growth
by making local products cheaper than imported goods. The record
budget deficits in countries including Greece had spurred
speculation the 16-nation currency union may split.  
 European Central Bank Governing Council member  Ewald Nowotny  said the euro’s volatility is “completely
unproblematic” and doesn’t require any measures to counter it.  
 “The volatility can’t be explained with economic reasons.
It’s partly due to elements of speculation,” Nowotny said in
Vienna today. “However, I don’t want to exaggerate it. We don’t
welcome it but we don’t see a reason to act.”  
 Implied volatility on one-month euro-dollar options touched
13.3550 percent today, the lowest level since May 14, after
trading as higher as 18.6150 percent last month, indicating
investors see smaller price swings in the coming month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Levisohn  in New York at 
 blevisohn@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        