-- Asia Stocks Cut to `Underweight' at Citigroup on Economic Outlook Concerns
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-08-03T03:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/asia-stocks-cut-to-underweight-at-citigroup-on-economic-outlook-concerns.html

          
          
             Asian stocks were reduced to
“underweight” from “neutral” at Citigroup Private Bank on
concern the global economy will falter.  
 Slowing economic growth will drag on the region’s equities
even after better-than-estimated earnings helped drive stocks
higher last month, said  Haren Shah , director of Asian investment
strategy at the firm, which has more than $200 billion in assets
globally. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index surged 5.6 percent in July,
the most since March. Forty percent of the index’s companies
that reported earnings since July 12 have beaten analysts’
targets,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 “When the earnings season is over, the market focus will
shift back to the slowing macroeconomic outlook,” said Shah
said in an interview in Singapore on July 30. “Recent numbers
from the U.S. and China suggest things are slowing down much
faster than people anticipate.”  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  slumped 9.8 percent in the
three months to June on concern Europe’s debt crisis and Chinese
steps to curb property prices will slow the global economy,
hurting demand for Asian products. Speculation that the U.S.
economy will fall into its second recession in three years
heightened investors’ growth concerns.  
 The U.S. economy expanded at a 2.4 percent annual pace in
the second quarter, slower than the first quarter’s 3.7 percent
clip, as a scarcity of jobs eroded consumer spending, government
data on July 30 showed.  
 Slower Growth  
 China’s economic expansion eased in the three months to
June to 10.3 percent from 11.9 percent in the previous quarter.
The International Monetary Fund expects world economic growth to
slow to 4.3 percent next year from this year’s forecast of 4.6
percent.  
 “There are still a lot of uncertainties out there,” Shah
said. “We’ll see slower growth in the second half and we’re not
going to see a strong bounce next year.”  
 The strategist said he’s favoring some technology stocks in
South Korea, Taiwan and  Hong Kong  that are benefitting from
increasing domestic consumption in the region. He declined to
name specific companies. A gauge of technology shares in the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index has slumped 7.4 percent in the past
three months, the most of 10 industry groups.  
 Citigroup Private Banking cut U.S. stocks to
“underweight” from “neutral” previously and raised its
rating on European stocks to “overweight” from “neutral” as
valuations in Europe are looking attractive, the company said in
a monthly asset allocation report sent to clients last week.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index ’s 3.7 percent decline from its
high this year on April 15 dragged the average value of its
shares to 12 times  estimated earnings . That’s less than the 14.5
times for stocks in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index and 13.6 times
for those in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 “There is cautious optimism in the market given that
valuations are looking attractive,” Shah said. “People are
probably less worried about Europe but the problems are still
there.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 2 (Bloomberg) -- Sean Darby, chief Asian equity strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, speaks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's stock market and economy.
     China’s manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in 17 months in July as the government clamped down on property speculation and investment in energy-intensive and polluting factories. Darby also discusses China's currency policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Lewis Wan, chief investment officer at Pride Investments Group Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for Chinese stocks.
     Speaking from Hong Kong, Wan also discusses Chinese companies' investment in foreign companies. Wan said most of China's financial stocks are trading at a discount to their Hong Kong-listed peers, which is "abnormal." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
