-- Australian Retail Sales Rise for Fourth Month as Household Spending Gains
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-08-03T01:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/australian-retail-sales-rise-for-fourth-month-as-household-spending-gains.html

          
          
             Australian retail sales rose in June
for a fourth month as consumers boosted spending on household
goods and restaurants.  
 Sales  increased 0.2 percent from May, when they advanced by
the same amount, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today.
The median forecast of 23 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News
was for a gain of 0.4 percent.  
 Today’s report suggests households are weathering the most
aggressive round of interest-rate increases by a Group of 20
member as a mining boom drives down unemployment. All 23
analysts polled by Bloomberg last week expect Reserve Bank of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep the overnight cash
rate target at 4.5 percent today for a third straight month.  
 “Strong employment growth and the RBA’s decision to leave
the cash rate steady in May and June should have buoyed
spending,”  Helen Kevans , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Sydney, said ahead of today’s report. “That said, the drop
in consumer confidence and the fall in equity prices over the
month would have led consumers to tighten their purse strings to
some extent.”  
 Spending on household goods rose 1.3 percent and restaurant
purchases gained 0.6 percent, today’s report showed. Consumers
spent 1.2 percent less on clothing and shoes.  
 Traders calculate no chance of a quarter-percentage-point
increase in the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent today or in
September, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
interbank futures on the Sydney Futures Exchange at 9:33 a.m.
The bank will announce its decision at 2:30 p.m. in Sydney.  
 Forecasts Cut  
 This year, companies including Woolworth’s Ltd., the
nation’s largest retailer, have cut sales-growth forecasts as 
policy makers boosted interest rates by 150 basis points between
early October and May.  
 The central bank’s adjustments have added about A$3,600 a
year to loan repayments on an average A$300,000 mortgage.  
 Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, rose 0.8
percent in the three months through June 30 from the previous
quarter, when they gained 0.1 percent. Economists forecast a
gain of 0.7 percent.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        