-- Emami to Build Its First Overseas Plants in Egypt, Bangladesh, Goenka Says
-- Anoop Agrawal
-- 2010-08-03T02:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/emami-to-build-its-first-overseas-plants-in-egypt-bangladesh-goenka-says.html

          
          
             Emami Ltd. , an Indian maker of
health-care products endorsed by Bollywood actor  Amitabh Bachchan , will build its first overseas factories in Egypt and
Bangladesh to meet demand for soaps, ointments and creams.  
 The company based in Kolkata plans to spend 350 million
rupees ($7.6 million) on the new plants, said Executive Director
 Mohan Goenka .  
 “Demand in the eastern African region and Bangladesh is
growing,” Goenka said in a phone interview yesterday. “The
units there will help us in meeting the requirement.”  
 Indian companies including Emami, Bharti Airtel Ltd. and
Bajaj Auto Ltd. are expanding in emerging nations in Africa and
Asia as economic growth boosts demand for products from
motorcycles to mobile-phone services. The International Monetary
Fund forecasts developing Asia to expand 8.5 percent. Egypt, the
most populous Arab nation, expanded 5.9 percent in the three
months to June 30.  
 “Having plants there will increase the penetration of
their international business, which is a significant part of
their overall business,” said  Shirish Pardeshi , an analyst with
Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. “The company will be able
to give services faster.”  
 The company earned 15 percent of its revenue from exporting
its hair oil, soaps and Boroplus antiseptic cream in the three
months ended June 30, Pardeshi said.  
 Emami’s  shares , which have risen 95 percent this year,
advanced 3.8 percent to 475.05 rupees in Mumbai yesterday. The
benchmark Sensex Index gained 1.2 percent yesterday.  
 The company, whose products are also endorsed by cricket’s
highest scorer  Sachin Tendulkar , isn’t in discussions to buy a
health-care company, he said denying a July 20 Hindu Business
Line report.  
 Bharti Airtel, India’s biggest mobile-phone company, in
June spent $9 billion to acquire the African assets of
Kuwait’s Mobile Telecommunications Co. Bajaj Auto, India’s
second-largest motorcycle maker, aims to triple global market
share to 30 percent by expanding in Asia, Africa and Latin
America.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        