-- Mexicana de Aviacion Files for Bankruptcy in Mexico
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-08T21:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/mexicana-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-says-flights-won-t-be-affected.html
Compania Mexicana de Aviacion SA,
Mexico’s biggest airline by passengers, won its request for
bankruptcy protection from U.S. creditors, after disputes were
resolved with a bank and a group of airports.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  in Manhattan court today
approved Mexicana’s request for protection under Chapter 15 of
the U.S. bankruptcy code. The ruling will help the 87-year-old
company reorganize in its main bankruptcy in Mexico by giving it
a legal shield from U.S. creditors.  “All objections have been resolved,” allowing the company
to use cash collateral of its bank lender, and resolving amounts
the airline owes to U.S. airports, Mexicana lawyer William Heuer
told Glenn today.  Heuer also told Glenn that the airline, which had grounded
flights, plans to fly again.  “We’re in process of putting that together,” Heuer said,
without giving a date.  Mexicana filed for protection from creditors in Mexico in
August, and also sought protection under Chapter 15 in New York.
A group of investors, Tendora K, bought 95 percent of the
company on Aug. 20, and are seeking to turn it around after
disputes with labor unions and a rise in jet fuel prices drove
the company to bankruptcy.  Airport Action  International airports in  Denver , Dallas, Miami and
Sacramento, California, sought court permission in August to
take legal action against Mexicana if they didn’t get “timely”
payment of passenger facility charges. Glenn had refused their
request and ordered a resolution of the dispute.  Glenn also overruled objections today raised in court by
lawyers who said they represented union members who work for the
airline. They sought to object to Mexicana’s motion to designate
the Mexican bankruptcy a main bankruptcy proceeding, saying that
filings in the U.S. contradicted or omitted information filed in
the Mexican proceeding.  “All creditors are not served in the petition for
recognition,” Glenn said, noting that his court only has
jurisdiction over assets in the U.S. He also said the lawyers
had failed to file objections in a timely manner.  Mexicana’s Chapter 15 petition in New York listed more than
$500 million in assets and $1 billion in debt. Around $1.57
billion Mexican pesos ($125 million) was held by  Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB  unit Banco Mercantil Del Norte, according
to court papers.  The U.S. case is Compania Mexicana De Aviacion SA de CV,
10-14182; U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 