-- Greece Names Former ECB Board Member Padoa-Schioppa as Adviser on Debt
-- Elisa Martinuzzi
-- 2010-08-03T15:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/greece-names-former-ecb-board-member-padoa-schioppa-as-economic-adviser.html

          
          
             Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  hired former European Central Bank board member
 Tommaso Padoa-Schioppa  to advise on the country’s economy
and debt management.  
 Padoa-Schioppa, also a former Italian finance minister,
will advise Papandreou on “issues of policy planning which
relate to the implementation of economic, fiscal and structural
policy in the framework of the European support mechanism,”
according to a statement.  
 Greece received a three-year, 110 billion-euro
($145 billion) bailout from the European Union and International
Monetary Fund in May as investor concern about Papandreou’s
ability to curb the budget deficit led to soaring borrowing
costs that pushed the country to the brink of default.  
 “I am very honored by this brief, which I consider
demanding for the double challenge that it poses,” Padoa-
Schioppa, who remains European chairman of Promontory Financial,
a Washington-based financial-services consulting firm, said in a
telephone interview. At stake are “the successful recovery of
the Greek economy and the managing of the crisis in the EU.”  
 Padoa-Schioppa, 70, last month told Italian newspaper La
Stampa that markets were correct in fearing a possible economic
depression in the euro region triggered by government responses
to the public debt crisis.  
 Greece’s austerity drive may pass its first test this
week, giving way to a second tranche of the bailout. The EU
and the IMF plan to hold a press conference between Aug. 4 and
Aug. 6 to discuss Greece’s progress, IMF spokeswoman  Jennifer Beckman  said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        