-- KKR Sale Means End of Private-Equity Stardom: Roger Lowenstein
-- Roger Lowenstein
-- 2010-08-03T01:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/kkr-sale-means-end-of-private-equity-stardom-roger-lowenstein.html

          
          
             The public stock offering of KKR &
Co. put me in mind of three vexing questions.  
 First, if KKR is based on the premise that private equity
is a better, more efficient form of organization, why did KKR
itself go public?  
 Second, is there evidence that private equity is truly
better? Does society benefit? Do investors? Or only the fund
managers who pocket those gargantuan fees?  
 Third, what happened to Congress’s plan to end the tax
break that benefits managers of private-equity funds, as well as
other investment funds? Will it summon the guts to tax
billionaires at the same rate as other wage-earners?  
 Private equity has its roots in the leveraged-buyout fad of
the 1980s. The premise was that public-company chief executives
weren’t sufficiently rewarded for success, and thus had let
their companies drift. Perhaps a small division of a big public
company was overlooked, or starved for capital, and would
perform better if it were the sole focus of manager-owners. Or
maybe the CEO was so insulated from market pressure, or fattened
with guaranteed bonuses, he had no incentive.  
   Henry Kravis , a KKR founder, and like apostles preached the
remedy of going private. Give managers a piece of the action
and, surely, their capitalist juices would stir. Since not even
the KKRs of the world could replace the public equity, most of
the enterprise was financed with debt.  
 Not that this was cause for alarm. Lots of debt meant lots
of interest, which cut the tax man’s take. Better still,
leverage magnified gains. Admiring scholars added a beguiling
coda: high levels of debt were actually a plus, as the ever-
present risk of bankruptcy would keep managerial minds focused.  
 Celebrated Essay  
 In a celebrated 1989 essay, Harvard’s Michael Jensen
predicted the “ Eclipse of the Public Corporation .” Jensen’s
enthusiasm proved to be the peak. As early deals begat high
profits, capital rushed in, pushing up buyout prices. Deals such
as KKR’s acquisition of  RJR Nabisco  didn’t make sense, not that
that cooled the dealmakers’ ardor.  
 In a trend that troubled even Jensen, buyout kings --
supposed paragons of capitalist virtue -- were pocketing
princely fees upfront (rather like the slothful, public CEOs
they were replacing) and irrespective of eventual results. In
1990, the buyout market crashed. LBOs with too much “L”
experienced the dubious charm of bankruptcy.  
 Then, after a mild  recession , buyouts returned. This second
wave was distinguished by two subtle changes.  
 Sloths Disappear  
 First, public-company CEOs, under pressure to raise their
stock prices, were no longer so slothful, if ever they had been
so. They were cutting costs, spinning off divisions that didn’t
fit -- the very tricks employed in LBOs. This left fewer
companies susceptible to formulaic, easy improvement.  
 But the buyout artists were emboldened by the second
change. Miraculously, they were “LBO” firms no more; they had
been reborn as “private equity.” The new name conjured up an
image of baronial elegance, as if merely to invest with a
Stephen Schwarzman was to enter a satiny world of quiet money
and managerial brilliance.  
 Ultimately, Schwarzman bolted for the grubbier, but more
bountiful, world of public markets. Blackstone Group Inc., the
private-equity firm he co-founded, got a jump on KKR, going
public in 2007. Evidently, buyout kingpins are anxious for an
exit strategy, which public shares enable.  
 The industry has never escaped its boom-to-bust pattern.
Strong returns in the early 1990s attracted competition, leading
to lower returns later in the decade. The cycle was repeated in
the 2000s, as deals struck in the easy-credit environment of
2006-2007 collapsed.  
 Index Funds  
 How does the record look overall?  Steven Kaplan , a
University of Chicago Business School professor, has been
studying private equity since the late 1980s. Kaplan’s findings:
some firms solidly beat the pack, though the industry as a whole
bests the stock market by only a modest amount. And after fees,
outside investors would do as well or better with their money in
an index fund that tracks the  Standard &amp; Poor’s 500 .  
 There is no doubt, Kaplan adds, that private-equity firms
add operational improvements. But the gains are given back at
the outset, in the premiums paid to acquire targets. And as
public-company managements have improved, the gap between
private and public efficiency has probably narrowed.  
 In sum, private equity adds modest and probably only
temporary efficiencies. As a social good, this isn’t exactly
curing cancer.  
 Which brings us to the issue of taxes. Whereas the feds tax
ordinary income at up to 35 percent,  capital gains  on
investments held for more than one year are  taxed  at only 15
percent, a rate designed to attract investment in capital
markets.  
 Undeserved Break  
 Managers of private-equity funds, and of other investment
partnerships, enjoy an undeserved exception. The performance fee
they charge investors, typically 20 percent of profits, is
treated as a capital gain and taxed at the lower rate. This
makes no economic sense; an outside investor has the same
incentive to participate regardless of the tax paid by the
manager. It makes sense only if you are Henry Kravis and prefer
to pay less.  
 The  House of Representatives  has voted three times to end
this unwarranted privilege. After the financial crisis, the
Senate seemed likely to concur. Then, industry lobbyists stormed
Congress. The matter now rests with the Senate Finance
Committee. Since nothing is more arbitrary than the proper rate
at which to tax, the only sure principle is consistency: what
one party pays, so should the other.  
 No great industry is at stake -- private equity is hardly
the engine of  job creation  its flag-waving lobby maintains, and
the industry will survive at any rate. The only principle at
stake is fairness: billionaires should pay as much as everyone
else.  
   Roger Lowenstein , author of “The End of  Wall Street ,” is
a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        