-- Korean Won Strengthens to a Two-Month High on Record Reserves; Bonds Slide
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-08-03T01:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/korean-won-strengthens-to-a-two-month-high-on-record-reserves-bonds-slide.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won advanced to its
strongest level in more than two months after the nation’s
foreign-exchange reserves rose to a record. Bonds fell.  
 The currency gained for a third straight day as the
benchmark  Kospi  index climbed to a two-year high. Overseas
investors bought more shares than they sold for a 10th
consecutive day, the longest streak of net purchases since
April. The nation’s  reserves  totaled $285.96 billion last month,
compared with $274.22 billion in June, the Bank of Korea said.  
 “The reserves data will help support the economy,” said
 Seo Jeong Hun , chief economist at Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul.
“More reserves means we have more U.S. dollars to support the
country in times of a crisis. The authorities may try to
intervene to stop herd behavior from strengthening the won.”  
 The won appreciated 0.4 percent to 1,167.25 per dollar as
of 9:39 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That was the currency’s strongest level since May 19.  
 Gains in the euro and the pound helped boost the reserves,
the central bank said. The euro traded near a three-month high
against the dollar today, while the pound rose to the highest
level in almost six months.  
 The government last month announced a tightening of limits
on currency derivatives to curb capital flows, and Vice Finance
Minister Yim Jong Yong said policy makers would use “smoothing-
operation” measures to stabilize the won.  
 Government bonds dropped for a second day. The yield on the
3.75 percent security due in June 2013 advanced three basis
points to 3.88 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        