-- HSBC Says Hong Kong at Risk of Property Bubble
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-08-03T01:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/hong-kong-may-face-property-bubble-if-prices-keep-rising-hsbc-s-wong-says.html

          
          
             Hong Kong risks a property bubble if
home prices keep rising, said  Peter Wong ,  HSBC Holdings Plc ’s
chief executive officer for the Asia-Pacific region.  
 “Property prices are at a fairly high level right now,”
 Wong  said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today. ‘If
it continues to increase, it may form a bubble.”  
 The Hong Kong government is trying to curb 42 percent  surge 
in home prices since the beginning of 2009 amid concern housing
is out of reach of ordinary residents. Prices may rise 10
percent in the second half of this year if interest rates remain
at two-decade lows and the local economy keeps growing,
according to property consultant Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  
 HSBC, which has had the  largest share  of new mortgages
among banks in Hong Kong since May, is “quite secured” with a
loan-to-value ratio below 40 percent in the city, Wong said.  
 Hong Kong’s home prices have increased 10.5 percent this
year, according to an index compiled by Centaline Property
Agency Ltd. The  Hang Seng Property Index , which tracks seven of
the city’s biggest developers, has risen 11 percent in the past
six months, compared with a 5.6 percent gain in the benchmark
Hang Seng Index.  
 Land Auction  
 Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , the world’s biggest developer
by market value, in June bought a site in the Ho Man Tin
district for HK$10.9 billion ($1.4 billion). At HK$12,540 per
square foot, it was the highest price paid in a government
auction in urban Hong Kong since the market peaked in 1997.  
 The government last month sold a residential site in the
city’s luxurious Peak district for HK$10.4 billion in an auction
it initiated to boost land supply. It will sell two sites in the
Kowloon area at auction on Aug. 17 and a residential plot in
Kowloon Tong district on Aug. 31.  
 Most government land sales in recent years have been
triggered by developers who promised to pay minimum prices for
sites on a list of available plots under the so-called land
application system. Regular government land auctions were halted
in 2004 to support falling home prices.  
 Ronnie Chan , Chairman of Hang Lung Properties Ltd., Hong
Kong’s third biggest builder by value, said last week the city’s
home prices “are already so expensive” when asked whether he’s
interested in bidding for land in government auction.  
 Asia-Pacific Growth  
 HSBC, Hong Kong’s biggest bank by customers and deposits,
yesterday said first-half profit doubled as its North American
unit returned to profit for the first time in three years. Asia
remained the bank’s “bedrock of profitability,” with pretax
profit in the region rising 30 percent to $5.86 billion,
according to Chief Executive Officer  Michael Geoghegan .  
 Wong said today he expects the region to sustain the same
level of growth in the second half of this year as it did in the
first.  
 Geoghegan moved to Hong Kong in February, leaving Chairman
 Stephen Green  in London, as the bank focuses on emerging markets
and plans an initial public offering in Shanghai next year. HSBC
will be ready for the Shanghai IPO when the necessary regulatory
changes are in place to allow a foreign company listing, Wong
said today.  
 Global growth is likely to remain constrained because of
“anaemic growth” in western nations, Geoghegan said yesterday
in the bank’s earnings statement, while he was “bullish” on
emerging economies.  
 -Editors: Brett Miller, Malcolm Scott.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       H.K. Faces Risks on Rising Home Prices, HSBC Says  
                       
                         
                           Jerome Favre/Bloomberg 
                         
                         “Property prices are at a fairly high level right now,” Wong said in an interview today. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     “Property prices are at a fairly high level right now,” Wong said in an interview today. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 3 (Bloomberg) -- Peter Wong, HSBC Holdings Plc’s Asia-Pacific chief executive officer, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for a potential stock listing in Shanghai.
     Wong also discusses the Asia-Pacific economy, the company's earnings and Hong Kong's property market. HSBC said first-half net income doubled as the North American unit returned to profit for the first time in three years and as bad-debt provisions fell by 46 percent. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
