-- Hong Kong May Review Probation Given to Judge's Niece Who Assaulted Police
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-08-03T02:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/hong-kong-may-review-probation-given-to-judge-s-niece-who-assaulted-police.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s Department of Justice may
seek a review of the probationary sentence given to a judge’s
niece convicted of assaulting a police officer.  
 “The DOJ will consider the reasons for sentence of the
magistrate and the prosecutor’s case report before deciding
whether a review of the sentences is appropriate,” wrote
department spokeswoman Josephine Chan in an e-mail today.  
 Amina Mariam Bokhary, the niece of Hong Kong Court of Final
Appeal Justice Kemal Bokhary was sentenced to 12 months
probation after being convicted of assaulting a police officer,
Radio Television Hong Kong  reported  yesterday. The conviction
was Bokhary’s third for attacks on police, following cases in
2002 and 2008,  South China Morning Post said .  
 Magistrate Anthony Yuen said that while assaults on police
would normally result in a jail sentence, the defendant’s
bipolar disorder and family background led him to impose a more
lenient sentence, the SCMP said. Three months of her sentence
were to be served in the  Betty Ford Center  for treatment of drug
and alcohol addiction, the paper said.  
 “The defendant has a good background, a well-off family,
good education and outstanding academic achievement” and “a
first-class honor in bachelor of business administration,” the
Post quoted the magistrate as saying. “Most importantly,” the
magistrate was quoted as saying, Bokhary “has caring and
concerned parents.”  
 The incident arose following a car accident on Jan. 27.
Bokhary was driving uphill in the Happy Valley district of Hong
Kong island when her car veered into the opposite lane and
collided head-on with a coach, the paper reported. Bokhary
slapped the face of a policeman who tried to stop her leaving
the scene, it said.  
 Fined  
 A court document from the Eastern Magistrates’ Court of
Hong Kong shows Bokhary, who is in her 30s, was also fined
HK$8,000 ($1,030) and had her license suspended for 12 months
for careless driving and refusing to take a breath test.  
 Christopher Morley, a defense lawyer for Bokhary, declined
to comment on the sentence.  
 A 90-day residential day treatment program at the Betty
Ford Clinic  costs  $49,550, according to its website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        