-- Pakistan Floods Displace More Than 1.2 Million People, U.N.'s Luigi Says
-- Rishaad Salamat
-- 2010-08-03T03:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/pakistan-floods-displace-more-than-1-2-million-people-u-n-s-luigi-says.html

          
          
             Pakistan’s deadliest floods in
decades displaced more than 1.2 million people and left 100,000
families in desperate need of assistance, according to the
United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization.  
 While there’s intervention to provide food and medicine for
survivors, agriculture also needs immediate support, Luigi
Damiani, senior emergency and rehabilitation coordinator, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview today from Islamabad.  
 The flood, which swept through villages and farmland in the
northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa late last week, may
be Pakistan’s worst in 35 years, according to U.K. charity Oxfam.
More than 1,500 people died, according to Noor Muhammad, a press
officer at the provincial development ministry.  
 Farm production may decline more than the 15 percent
estimated yesterday by the agriculture chamber of commerce, with
a precise estimate to come from field surveys, Damiani said.
Pakistan needed seeds to replant crops, as well as feed and
medicine for livestock, he said.  
 More heavy rains are expected in “flood ravaged” areas in
Pakistan this week, and flooding may “ continue to be a problem ”
during the first two weeks of August, forecaster Accuweather.com
said yesterday.  
 Water flow in the Indus River is expected to reach 1
million cubic feet per second, 10 times its normal flow and
nearly double the flow of the Mississippi River, Pennsylvania-
based Accuweather said in a website statement.  
 ‘Travel South’  
 “A very high flood crest is expected to travel south, down
the Indus River over the next few days,” according to the
statement. “The five rivers that drain northern Pakistan join
to form the Indus River. Flooding is expected on the Indus in
areas that have not seen flooding yet.”  
 The U.S. pledged $10 million in emergency aid to Pakistan
for relief efforts, and the North American government is rushing
helicopters, boats, pre-fabricated bridges, mobile water
treatment units and food supplies to affected areas, Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton said on Aug. 1.  
 “In addition to washing away houses and farms, the floods
have destroyed a number of key bridges and left many roads
submerged, effectively isolating some of the hardest-hit
areas,” the UN’s World Food Program said yesterday. The agency
is also trying to assess “damage across the border in
Afghanistan, where heavy flooding has also been reported,” it
said in a statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Rishaad Salamat  in Hong Kong at  rishaad@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pakistani Floods Displace 1.2 Million, U.N. Estimates  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Berehulak/Getty Images 
                         
                         Local residents scramble to recover water bottles dropped from a Pakistan Air force helicopter in Nowshera, Pakistan. The flood may be Pakistan’s worst in 35 years. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Local residents scramble to recover water bottles dropped from a Pakistan Air force helicopter in Nowshera, Pakistan. The flood may be Pakistan’s worst in 35 years. Photographer: Daniel Berehulak/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
