-- Philippine Air Cancellations May Lead to Fare Increases, Government Says
-- Karl Lester M. Yap
-- 2010-08-03T03:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/philippine-air-pilot-resignations-shows-need-for-more-carriers-lim-says.html

          
          
             Philippine Airlines Inc. ’s
cancellation of flights following the resignation of 25 pilots
may spur higher ticket prices and encourage the government to
ease market restrictions, said Tourism Secretary  Alberto Lim .  
 The reduction in services “shows the need for more
carriers to serve the tourism industry as well as business and
investment,” Lim said in a phone interview from Manila today.
“It would help the cause of liberalization.”  
 The country eased restrictions on services by overseas
carriers following a Philippine Air pilots strike in 1998, Lim
said, to pare its reliance on the nation’s flag carrier. The
government yesterday held an emergency meeting with officials
from Philippine Air and other local airlines because of concerns
that the reduction in services may disrupt tourism and exports.  
 Philippine Air handles about a third of the nation’s
overseas and domestic services, Lim said. The airline canceled
22 flights over the past three days after the pilots quit for
better-paying jobs overseas.  
 The airline will reduce some domestic and regional services,
President  Jaime Bautista  said today in interview broadcast on
ABS-CBN News Channel. Services to the U.S. won’t be affected, he
said. Transport Secretary  Jose de Jesus  will meet with pilots
today, his information officer said.  
 PAL Holdings Inc. , the carrier’s parent, was unchanged at 4
pesos at 11:04 a.m. in Manila trading. The company is controlled
by billionaire  Lucio Tan .  
 Electronics-makers, which account for about half of the
$167 billion economy’s exports, may avoid disruptions as the
industry tends to rely on dedicated cargo carriers, such as
 FedEx Corp.  and Deutsche Post AG’s DHL, said  Arthur Tan ,
director of trade group Semiconductor and Electronics Industries
of the Philippines Inc.  
 “In terms of cargo, the effect is not so much,” said Tan,
who is also president of  Integrated Micro-Electronics Inc.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francisco Alcuaz Jr . in Manila at 
 falcuaz@bloomberg.net ;
 Karl Lester M. Yap  in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        