-- Asia May Face Supply Shortages, Queensland Sugar Says
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-08-06T09:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/raw-sugar-prices-will-drop-in-the-december-quarter-commonwealth-bank-says.html

          
          
             Sugar refineries in  Asia  may have
supply shortfalls if Brazilian shipping problems continue,  Australia ’s largest exporter of the sweetener said.  
 “From November and probably for the January-to-March
period next year, which is normally when Brazil would send a
reasonable amount of product over here, that’s when it looks
like it’s potentially going to be tight,” Queensland Sugar Ltd.
Chief Executive Officer Neil Taylor said by phone from Brisbane.  
 Raw sugar futures in  New York  rallied to a more than four-
month high this week as a record number of ships waited to load
supplies at ports in Brazil, the world’s largest exporter.
Delayed rainfall has cut forecasts for Thai production and
exports, Rangsit Hiangrat, director of the Cane and Sugar
Industry Policy Bureau said July 15.  
 “We haven’t got much more to sell, the Thai’s haven’t got
much more to sell so if the customers haven’t got stock they
are very reliant on  Brazil ,” Taylor said. The Australian
export crop was about 80 percent committed, he said.  
 Raw sugar for October delivery rose 1.3 percent, to 18.52
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. at 5:45 p.m. Melbourne time
after touching 19.88 on Aug. 2, the highest level since March
15.  
 The direction of prices would depend on whether Brazil
cleared its export delays and the effect of  India ’s monsoon on
production and exports, according to Taylor. Queensland Sugar
ships more than 90 percent of Australia’s raw sugar exports.  
 Cane Harvest  
 Australia’s harvest was about 25 percent to 30 percent
completed following some delays in the far north because of
rain, Taylor said. Exports for the year started June 1 were
likely to be similar to last year’s level of a slightly more
than 2.9 million tons, he said.  
 “Demand in Asia remains very strong,” he said earlier
today in a statement.  “Refiners will need to import around
3.5 million metric tons in the next six months, which will be
hard to get while sugar remains caught up in the shipping
delays in Brazil.” Sugar consumption in Asia was continuing to
increase at a faster pace than regional production, he said.  
   Commonwealth Bank of Australia  forecast this week that raw
sugar prices will decline this year as shipping-delay concerns
in Brazil ease and importers complete purchases deferred from
the first quarter of the year.  
 “We predict that prices will come under downward pressure
as the market’s supply squeeze dissipates in the fourth
quarter,”  Luke Mathews , an agricultural commodities analyst at
the bank, wrote in a report.  
 Prices may average 18.3 cents in the September quarter, 16
cents in the December quarter and decline to 11.5 cents in the
third quarter of 2011, according to CBA. Rising demand from
Asia, particularly  China  would drive prices in the “longer
term,” CBA said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        