-- Tropical Depression Is Expected to Strengthen in Atlantic, Forecaster Says
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-08-03T03:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-03/tropical-depression-is-expected-to-strengthen-in-atlantic-forecaster-says.html

          
          
             A tropical depression that has formed
in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean is expected to strengthen in
the next 48 hours, according to the National Hurricane Center.  
 The storm has maximum sustained winds of 35 miles (56
kilometers) per hour, 4 mph less than the threshold needed to be
declared a tropical storm and given a name, according to a
bulletin released at 11 p.m. Miami time yesterday. It is moving
toward the west-northwest at 23 mph.  
 The official  hurricane center  track shows the depression
strengthening into a tropical storm and curving to the north
between Bermuda and the U.S. East Coast. However, that depends
on the strength of other systems over the U.S., said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in
Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  
 “All U.S. interests in the Southeast and the Gulf have to
watch this storm as it develops in the next five days,”
Rouiller said yesterday. “The models are having a real tough
problem with it and I suspect there will be some fairly dramatic
swings.”  
 The course the storm takes will also affect how strong it
gets, Rouiller said. Computer models show if it moves north, it
may weaken and have difficulty intensifying because of
interference from high altitude winds.  
 If it takes a more southerly track, the storm may be able
to develop to hurricane strength, he said.  
 The next tropical storm will be given the name Colin and
become the third named system of the 2010 Atlantic hurricane
season, which began on June 1.  
 Large storms are a threat to oil and natural gas platforms
in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and agriculture in the Southern
states. Florida is the second-largest citrus producer behind
Brazil, and the Gulf accounts for 31 percent of U.S. oil output
and 43 percent of the country’s refining capacity.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        