-- Iraq Gas May Supplement Nabucco Supply, EU's Burgos-Alonso Says
-- Maher Chmaytelli
-- 2008-10-02T16:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-10-02/iraq-gas-may-supplement-nabucco-supply-eu-s-burgos-alonso-says.html

          
          
             Iraq and  Egypt  may provide natural
gas to Nabucco, a pipeline project to supply  Europe  through
 Turkey , bypassing  Russia , a European Union official said.  
 Iraq has expressed willingness to export gas from the Akkas
field, on the border with  Syria , using Nabucco, Cristobal
Burgos-Alonso, an adviser at the EU's Energy and Transport
Directorate, said in an interview today in Athens.  
 Azerbaijan  may not be able to provide more than 20 billion
cubic meters a year for the OMV AG-led Nabucco that aims to
bring 30 billion cubic meters a year of gas to central Europe,
he said. Akkas may provide the 5 to 10 billion cubic meters that
are needed to allow the project to start, and Egypt may also
contribute, the official said.  
 Russia's  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  wants to increase its intake of gas
from the former Asian Soviet republics including Kazakhstan and
 Turkmenistan  to compensate for a decline in production in its
Russian fields. It's also pushing forward its own project to
bring Caspian Sea gas to the Balkans by building a pipeline
under the  Black Sea . Italy's  Eni SpA (ENI)  is also promoting this
route, called South Stream.  
 Iraq and Egypt would send the gas to Turkey through Syria
by extending an existing pipeline that began supplying Syria
with Egyptian gas this year, said Burgos-Alonso who spoke while
attending a conference about Eastern European energy.  
 Russia's readiness to buy natural gas from Kazakhstan and
Turkmenistan at prices similar to those of the EU may undermine
Nabucco, Darius Mesca,  Romania 's deputy economy minister, said
in an interview at the conference in Athens.  
 ``The Russian offer is a main concern for Nabucco,'' he
said. ``So far, Azerbaijan is the only potential supplier, at
least in the first phase.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in  Athens  at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        