-- Madoff's Bed, Underwear, Shoes Snapped Up in $2 Million New York Auction
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-11-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/madoff-footwear-to-footstool-auctioned-ring-goes-for-550-000.html
A New York auction of the spoils of
 Bernard Madoff ’s fraud raised more than $2 million for his
victims -- as souvenir hunters snapped up his canopy bed,
footwear and even his underwear.  Almost 500 lots, featuring more suits, sweaters and shoes
than a man can wear in a lifetime, were sold in the ballroom of
a Midtown Manhattan hotel on Nov. 13. The 9½-hour marathon was
enlivened by feverish bidding and hollering by auctioneers from
 Gaston & Sheehan , a company based in Pflugerville, Texas.  More than 200 collectors and dealers competed for bargains
or mementos of Madoff’s $65 billion Ponzi scheme. Tally Wiener,
35, a former associate with the law firm Brown Rudnick LLP,
spent about $30,000, including $2,250 for the bed. Wiener
said she worked on the liquidation of  Fairfield Sentry Ltd. ,
which invested with Madoff, and wanted to aid victims.  “The king-size bed is bigger than my living room,” Wiener
said in an interview, adding that her bids heated up the auction
room, helping create a buzz at the sale. “I don’t know what 
came over me,” she said.  Wiener said she may reauction some of the 16 lots she
bought to benefit investors of Fairfield Sentry. Wiener also
plans to seek out  Ruth Madoff  and offer her the bed, “if she
wants it.”  The sale was overseen by the  U.S. Marshals Service  under
tight security. Madoff, 72, is in a North Carolina prison
serving a 150-year sentence.  All items were recovered from the fraudster’s East Side
penthouse and Montauk, Long Island, beach house, both of which
have been sold. The most expensive lot was a 10.5-carat diamond
ring that fetched $550,000, beating its high presale estimate by
$200,000.  Mystery Motivation  It was bought by a man with salt-and-pepper hair and a
tweed jacket who wouldn’t identify himself or his motivation.  “It’s all going to play out shortly,” he told the two
dozen journalists who engulfed him. “I’d just as soon not talk
about it.”  The auctioneer Bob Sheehan, of closely held  Gaston &
Sheehan , said the emerald-cut stone “supposedly” was Mrs.
Madoff’s engagement ring.  More than 200 pairs of Madoff’s shoes were sold. One lot of
18 pairs, of new size 9 “Mr. Casual” from the Manhattan store
Belgian Shoes, fetched $2,900, more than double the high presale
estimate.  A man who declined to identify himself had his eye on a
pair of black velveteen slippers, with the initials BLM
embroidered in gold thread. They sold for $6,000.  Another unidentified man paid $1,700 for 11 pairs of
designer boxer shorts -- all new, according to the catalog --
accompanied by more than 200 pairs of socks, some new, some not
so new.  Empty photo albums and picture frames went for $1,000. A
leather footstool depicting a bull went for $3,300, almost 10
times its presale high estimate of $360.  ‘Silly’ Prices  “The word that comes to mind is silly,” said James Flaig,
57, a legal secretary who deposited the required $500 to
register for the sale and didn’t bid. “If Jesus Christ had
owned it, I still wouldn’t pay these prices.”  Alan Richardson, a Miami jewelry and collectibles dealer,
spent about $400,000 on jewelry and luxury watches. He said
prices were lower than at a smaller Madoff sale a year ago, also
at the Sheraton New York Hotel & Towers. Proceeds from both go
to a fund to benefit those who lost money in Madoff’s scheme.  “Prices are high for junk,” Richardson said. “The really
good stuff wasn’t expensive at all.”  Richardson said the Madoff provenance doesn’t command much
of a premium in the secondary market.  “It’s like owning Hitler’s stuff,” he said. “He wasn’t a
good guy.”  Madoff’s Steinway & Sons grand piano went for $42,000.  ‘Conversation Piece’  “It’s got a little bit of history to it, and it’s
hysterical,” real estate developer John Rodger, of East Islip
on Long Island, told reporters after placing the winning bid.
“It makes it a conversation piece.”  All items were sold without commissions. The presale
estimate of the total was $1.5 to $2 million.  As of Sept. 30, approximately $1.5 billion was recovered
for Madoff’s investors, the trustee overseeing Madoff’s
bankruptcy,  Irving Picard , said in a report.  At the time of his arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to Picard. Investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 