-- Scania, MAN SE Explore Combination to Take on Mercedes-Benz
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-15T16:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/man-workers-would-reject-takeover-bid-by-scania-germany-s-ig-metall-says.html
Scania AB , the Swedish truckmaker
controlled by  Volkswagen AG , said it’s considering a merger with
 MAN SE  of Germany to create Europe’s largest manufacturer of
commercial vehicles.  “For some time Scania and MAN have investigated different
projects in the industrial area,” Scania said today. “A full
realization of potential synergies requires a closer cooperation
by combining the two companies, while maintaining the unique
brand values of the respective companies.”  MAN  rose  to the highest price in 2 ½ years in Frankfurt. A
merged Scania and MAN would overtake Volvo AB and  Daimler AG  as
the largest maker of heavy trucks and buses in Europe. VW Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  this year appointed
production chief  Jochem Heizmann  to oversee the truck holdings
and to forge ties between Scania and MAN. Europe’s largest
carmaker owns 46 percent of Scania and 29.9 percent of MAN.  “VW’s aim is to control this truck group, exploit
synergies and the economies of scale that are very important in
this industry,” said  Daniel Schwarz , an analyst at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt. “It’s the one scenario that makes most sense
from VW’s point of view.”  Market Value  MAN, based in Munich,  jumped  5.10 euros, or 6.2 percent, to
87.55 euros, steepest increase since Sept. 24 and the highest
level since June 2008. The truckmaker, which reported 2009  sales 
of 12 billion euros ($16.3 billion), has a market value of 12.7
billion euros.  Scania added 2 kronor, or 1.4 percent, to 148 kronor in
Stockholm, giving the Soedertaelje, Sweden-based company a
market value of 118 billion kronor ($17 billion). Volkswagen’s
 preferred shares  rose 2.3 percent to 116.60 euros. MAN has risen
61 percent this year and Scania has gained 60 percent.  Volkswagen, which  owns  46 percent of Scania’s capital and
71 percent of the voting rights, wants to increase the holding
by transferring its stake in MAN to Scania, German weekly
magazine  Der Spiegel  reported. Scania may then offer to buy out
other MAN investors, Der Spiegel said. MAN has a 13.4 percent
holding in Scania.  No decisions have been taken on a potential combination of
the companies, Scania said in its statement.  No Decision  In a separate release, MAN said that at “this early stage
of the discussions, the outcome is still open and no decisions
have been taken.” MAN’s statement only referred to “industrial
cooperation” with Scania, calling a possible combination of MAN
and Scania “speculation.”  “We support these talks,”  Michael Brendel , a Wolfsburg,
Germany-based spokesman for Volkswagen, said by telephone,
referring to MAN’s statement.  The most likely scenario for a combination would be a
purchase of MAN by Scania, said Commerzbank’s Schwarz. The
Swedish truckmaker may pay for the stake with the help of a sale
of new Class B shares, which grant 10th of the voting rights of
its Class A shares, according to the bank. That would limit the
dilution of VW’s control in Scania and the resulting group,
Schwarz said.  Scania had 767 million euros in cash and cash equivalents
as of Sept. 30, according to its quarterly report. MAN had 1
billion euros of cash reserves, and VW held 22 billion euros. VW
also aims to complete a merger with Porsche SE next year.  Hostile Bid  MAN made a hostile bid for Scania in September 2006 and was
forced to withdraw the 10.3 billion-euro offer in January 2007
following opposition from Volkswagen and Investor AB, Scania’s
second-largest shareholder at the time. Investor sold its Scania
stake to VW in 2008.  Scania and MAN have a combined nine-month share of Europe’s
heavy-truck and bus market of 29 percent, according to the
Brussels-based  European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association .
Daimler has 21 percent and Volvo, including its Renault trucks
unit, has 23 percent.  Globally,  MAN  and  Scania  together sold more than 84,000
trucks and buses in the first nine months. Their combination
would create a manufacturer with a 5.9 percent market share,
surpassing Volvo’s 5 percent but still trailing Daimler’s 11
percent, according to 2009 figures supplied by Stuttgart,
Germany-based Daimler, the world’s largest truckmaker.  Volvo forecast last month that the heavy-truck market will
grow 10 percent in 2010 in Europe and between 20 and 30 percent
in North America, or deliveries of about 180,400 trucks in
Europe and as many as 153,400 in North America. Sales will top
200,000 vehicles in each region next year, Volvo said Oct. 22.  Global Sales  Worldwide truck sales may jump by more than half to about 3
million vehicles by 2015,  Andreas Renschler , head of Daimler
Trucks, predicted in September.  Daimler CEO  Dieter Zetsche  said on Sept. 30 that he may
consider acquisitions in the commercial-vehicle segment, after
Fiat SpA CEO  Sergio Marchionne  said that he’s open to a possible
partnership for the truck and tractor business that is being
spun off by the Italian carmaker. Daimler isn’t in talks with
Fiat about the Iveco truck unit, Zetsche said at the time.  “That Scania and MAN will tighten their cooperation is
logical since Volkswagen owns both companies,” said  Carl Holmquist , an analyst at Danske Markets Equities who has a
“hold” rating on Scania. “The question now is, what will
happen concretely with the ownership situation among these three
companies?”  ‘Running the Show’  MAN must be allowed to keep its mainstay commercial
vehicles and diesel and turbo businesses, IG Metall union’s
Juergen Wechsler said late yesterday after discussions with
worker representatives who are on MAN’s supervisory board.  Scania and MAN said in July that they were studying whether
to work together on hybrid components research as well as to
share gearboxes and axles. Scania CEO  Leif Oestling  said Oct. 25
that “we need a number of months more before we can say exactly
where and how” it will turn out.  “I guess he, like everyone else, just have to accept the
situation,” said Hakan Thurfjell, a Scania board member who
represents the Federation of Salaried Employees in Industry and
Services. “Volkswagen is running the show.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  