-- Australia's Greens Plan Laws to Hold Down Scale of Mortgage Rate Increases
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-11-14T04:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/australia-s-greens-plan-laws-to-hold-down-scale-of-mortgage-rate-increases.html
Westpac Banking Corp. and its
closest competitors in Australia would face restraints on
increasing mortgage interest rates under legislation planned by
the Greens Party.  The Greens aim to put a 24-month freeze on the so-called
 “Big Four” domestic banks , banning them from raising their
interest charges by more than the  Reserve Bank of Australia ’s
increases, according to an e-mailed statement from the party
today. The legislation, to be introduced to the lower house
tomorrow, also seeks to scrap some small fees and ensure banks
pass on decreases to official central bank rates, it said.  Westpac and  National Australia Bank Ltd.  on Nov. 12
announced increases to their standard variable home-loan rates,
following moves by  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. 
and Commonwealth Bank of Australia. After reporting higher
profits, all four raised charges by more than the Nov. 2
quarter-percentage point move by the Reserve Bank, triggering a
backlash by homeowners and verbal attacks from the government
and opposition.  The rate increases “confirmed the culture of arrogance and
contempt for the community we are seeing among the big banks,”
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed statement today. “It
wasn’t surprising to read reports that the number of people
looking to re-finance their mortgage, or switch home loans, more
than doubled over the past week and a half.”  Topic of Debate  Mortgage rates are a topic of public debate in Australia,
where more than 90 percent of homeowners have variable-rate home
loans. Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said Nov. 12 the
government was working on changes to the banking industry that
would allow consumers to more easily leave their bank and find a
better deal with smaller lenders.  The Australian government will “soon” announce “a
carefully considered, effective plan to promote more competition
and give people a fair go,” Swan said.  While the government, which relies on the support of three
independent lawmakers and the Greens party, can’t regulate the
nation’s interest rates, it will give more powers to the
competition regulator in a banking reform package to be
announced next month, Gillard said Nov. 4.  Opposition Stance  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition, supported by more
voters than the minority Labor government according to a
Newspoll published on Oct. 26, will introduce laws to parliament
this month to give the competition watchdog more power,
including tackling price signaling between the banks, according
to opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey .  The Greens’ Banking Amendment Bill 2010 will attempt to
scrap “unfair” automated teller machine fees, ensure fee-free
bank accounts, cap mortgage exit fees and introduce a variable
rate mortgage product to reduce the lenders’ costs of funds,
today’s statement said.  “I put a direct challenge to Joe Hockey and to opposition
leader Tony Abbott to support the Greens in preventing the banks
from doing it again,” Greens leader  Bob Brown  told the Nine
Network today, referring to increases above Reserve Bank rates.
“The government should be doing it as well.”  Australia’s four biggest lenders avoided state bailouts and
swallowed smaller rivals during the global financial crisis.
Commonwealth Bank,  Westpac , National Australia and ANZ Bank
account for about 87 percent of the home lending market,
according to the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.  “There is absolutely no justification” for the scale of
the rate increases, Gillard said Nov. 12. “People who bank with
those banks will judge them very harshly for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 Jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  