-- Auto Asset-Backed Bonds Rally as GM's IPO Looms
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2010-11-15T16:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/auto-rebound-seen-in-bonds-as-sales-soar-gm-prepares-ipo-credit-markets.html
The car and truck industry is
gaining the confidence of bond investors as sales soar and
 General Motors Co.  prepares an initial public offering of stock
this week.  Yields on securities tied to automobile sales have narrowed
to 80 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate from 95
basis points three months ago, according to Barclays Capital.
Spreads on bonds tied to other consumer debt, such as credit-
card and student loans, were unchanged at 73 basis points.  Rising appetite for the debt means automakers and their
finance units may raise cash more easily to make loans, aiding
sales of cars and trucks and potentially bolstering their
creditworthiness. Global light-vehicle sales may rise to 71.1
million this year, according to J.D. Power & Associates in Troy,
Michigan, surpassing the record 70.3 million units sold in 2007.  “The auto sector is the only area that has a robust new
issue market,” said  Joseph Astorina , a fixed-income analyst at
Barclays Capital in New York. “There has been very strong
appetite for new deals, and that has helped ramp up demand and
tighten spreads.”  Sales tied to auto lending account for 54 percent of the
$108 billion in securities backed by household and business
borrowing that were sold this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Last year, 36 percent of the $184 billion of
securities sold were tied to auto debt.  Procter & Gamble  GM, bailed out last year by the U.S., plans an IPO after
 reporting  $2.16 billion in third-quarter net income.  Ford Motor
Co. ’s nine-month earnings of $6.37 billion are more than double
its $2.72 billion in profit for all of last year.  Elsewhere in credit markets, relative yields on corporate
bonds worldwide rose for a second week. Spreads on company debt
from the U.S. to Europe and Asia widened 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, last week to 167 basis points and are up 3
basis points this month, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.  Yields increased to an average 3.58 percent from 3.42
percent on Nov. 5. Yields were above 4.25 percent a year ago.  Procter & Gamble Co. , the world’s largest consumer-products
company, may sell five-year notes in a benchmark offering,
according to a person familiar with the transaction. The senior
unsecured debt may be sold as soon as today, said the person,
who declined to be identified as terms aren’t set. Benchmark
sales are typically at least $500 million.  Default Swaps Fall  Barclays Capital is marketing $500 million of bonds backed
by credit-card payments, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The top-rated securities, maturing in 1.98 years,
may yield 60 basis points more than the one-month London
interbank offered rate, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t public.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreasing 2.1 basis
points to a mid-price of 91.5 basis points as of 11:46 a.m. in
New York, according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Tighter Spread  Automakers and finance companies rely on asset-backed
securities to raise cash to make loans. Selling the debt is a
cheap way to diversify funding sources, according to Barclays
Capital’s Astorina.  “The all-in cost is very attractive,” he said. “It’s a
cheaper source of funding than unsecured debt or bank loans.”  Spreads on fixed-rate auto asset-backed securities with
ratings from A through AAA and maturing in three years narrowed
145 basis points to 100 basis points in the past 52 weeks,
according to a Citigroup Inc. report dated Nov. 12. Similarly
rated five-year credit-card securities have tightened by 90
basis points.  AmeriCredit Financial Services, the lender to car buyers
with poor credit owned by Detroit-based GM, and Japan’s Nissan
Motor Co., sold $1.45 billion of asset-backed bonds on Nov. 10.  Fort Worth, Texas-based AmeriCredit paid 55 basis points
more than the benchmark swap rate on $90.3 million of top-rated
securities maturing in 2.12 years. At its previous sale of
similar debt in September, the company paid 45 basis points over
swaps, Bloomberg data show.  The largest top-rated portion of Nissan’s sale, a $223
million slice maturing in two years, yields 47 basis points more
than the benchmark swap rate.  European Sales  In Europe, sales of auto loan-backed bonds rose to 6
billion euros ($8.23 billion) this year, from 1.2 billion euros
for the whole of 2009, according to JPMorgan data. Investors
demand an average 80 basis points more than the euro interbank
offered rate, or  Euribor , to hold two-year senior securities
backed by European car loans, compared with a 135 basis-point
spread at the end of last year, JPMorgan data show.  “Auto loan ABS has attracted significant investor interest
thanks to its short-dated nature, liquidity and good performance
of the German collateral,” said  Flavio Rusconi,  a London-based
analyst at JPMorgan. “This contributed to spreads tightening
over the past year.”  GM  may price its IPO above the forecast range and exercise
an option to sell more shares amid signs of brisk demand,
according to two people familiar with the transaction.  Ford Turnaround  The reception six GM executives have received from
investors on a promotional tour to advertise the  IPO  has been
strong enough to sell the shares at the high end of the $26 to
$29 offering range or above $30, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the information is private.  Noreen Pratscher, a GM spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  turned the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker around after losses of $30
billion in 2006 through 2008, allowing the company to pay down
$10.8 billion in obligations this year and reduce its auto
unit’s debt to $22.8 billion.  Global light-vehicle sales will increase 6 percent to 73.8
million next year, Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Automotive
said in September. The forecast assumes 1.95 million additional
deliveries in China and South Asia and a 1.5 million increase in
North American sales.  Shrinking Market  Offerings linked to auto loans, leases and debt that
finance cars have gained a bigger share of a shrinking market
for asset-backed securities, Citigroup data show. While the auto
market has declined 0.8 percent this year, issuance of
securities backed by credit-card debt of $5.99 billion
represents an 85 percent drop from a year earlier as households
save more.  Default rates on auto loans packaged into bonds are running
“well below” the peak levels of 2007 and 2008, according to a
Nov. 4 report from Wells Fargo Securities.  “The auto sector is past its peak in losses resulting from
the credit crunch and recession,” said analysts led by  John McElravey  in Charlotte, North Carolina. Demand for  used vehicles 
is also helping prop up prices, which helps minimize losses on
defaulted loans, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  