-- BHP Restarts Buyback After Scrapping $40 Billion Potash Bid
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-11-15T21:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/bhp-billiton-withdraws-offer-to-acquire-potash-corp-restarts-buyback.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
largest mining company, resumed a share buyback after abandoning
its hostile $40 billion takeover offer for Canada’s Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc. in the face of government opposition.  BHP will purchase $4.2 billion of its shares under a $13
billion buyback program suspended in 2007, the Melbourne-based
company said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  withdrew his offer
for the world’s largest fertilizer maker after Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper ’s government said on Nov. 3 it didn’t meet the
requirements of the Investment Canada Act to bring “net
benefits” to the country. It’s the third time Kloppers, 48, has
failed to complete a deal in the past two years, notching up at
least $800 million in  transaction  costs.  The buyback “probably isn’t as much as some people had
wanted,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion
at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne, including BHP shares.
Scrapping the Potash deal indicates BHP “didn’t really have a
Plan B or any wriggle room to move forward,” he said.  BHP , which could spend as much as $25 billion buying back
shares according to Morgan Stanley, climbed 1.8 percent to 2,406
pence at the 4:35 p.m. close in London. The stock earlier fell
0.4 percent to A$44.14 on the Australian exchange in Sydney.  Potash Corp.  declined $2.64, or 1.9 percent, to $137.27 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have advanced 27 percent this year.  CDS Falls  The cost of protecting against a BHP bond default dropped.
Credit-default swaps on BHP declined 5 basis points to 78.5
basis points at 5:01 p.m. in London, according to prices from
data provider CMA.  BHP’s withdrawal “underscores the Potash Corp. board of
directors’ unanimous belief that the BHP Billiton offer
substantially undervalued Potash Corp.,” the Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  Industry Minister  Tony Clement ’s decision to block the deal
was only the second Canadian rejection of a foreign takeover in
the past 25 years. Clement told reporters in Toronto yesterday
he rejected the bid in part because of concern BHP wouldn’t
bring new expertise or increase production.  Saskatchewan Pressure  Under the Investment Canada Act, the government can block
any transaction valued at C$299 million ($296 million) or more
if it finds it doesn’t provide benefits to the country such as
jobs, exports and investment. The government faced pressure from
the province of Saskatchewan, which argued the sale would cut
 jobs  and tax revenue and surrender control of an important
resource.  “The minister of industry would have required additional
undertakings beyond those BHP Billiton had already offered which
would have conflicted with BHP Billiton’s business strategy,”
the Australian company said. Under the deal, it had planned to
spend at least $1 billion on investments and other activities.  “This is the realization that there’s a low-to-no
probability they can get a deal done at this time,”  Louis Meyer , a New York-based special situations analyst at Oscar
Gruss & Son Inc., said by phone. “It’s not surprising given the
roadblocks thrown up, including price and regulatory
rejection.”  Kloppers obtained $45 billion of loans in September to fund
the acquisition, which was opposed by Potash management and some
 investors . The failed bid will incur a transaction cost of about
$350 million, BHP said.  S&P Rating  Standard & Poor’s today removed BHP’s  A+ rating  from
“creditwatch with negative implications,” it said in a
statement, lowering the threat of a credit-rating cut.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and nine other banks may lose an
estimated $120 million in advisory fees, according to estimates
by research firm Freeman Consulting. In addition to those fees,
financing banks can get as much as $190 million to arrange
loans, according to Freeman. Most of the loan fees may have
already been paid, Freeman said.  “It was the way BHP approached both Potash Corp. and
Canada that killed the deal,”  Mark Connelly , a New York-based
analyst at Credit Agricole SA, said by phone. “They turned this
into a political issue by being so outright hostile to Canada.”  BHP had committed to spending $450 million in the next five
years on exploration and development and $370 million on
infrastructure funds in Saskatchewan and New Brunswick, the
company said today. It would have applied to list on the Toronto
Stock Exchange, foregone tax benefits and remained a member of
 Canpotex , the marketing company jointly owned by Potash Corp.,
Agrium Inc. and Mosaic Co., for five years.  Deal Costs  Kloppers, appointed CEO in May 2007, ended his hostile bid
for Rio Tinto Group in 2008 and a joint venture with the same
company was abandoned last month. He spent $450 million on the
Rio takeover bid, according to the company. He used $75 million
on the joint venture, the Australian Financial Review said.  Canada will provide “guidance” to investors on the kinds
of foreign takeovers it will tolerate, Harper told reporters
yesterday at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in
Yokohama, Japan.  In bidding for Potash Corp., the world’s biggest producer
of the crop nutrient, Kloppers was seeking to benefit from
surging demand for fertilizer as food needs grow and the list of
possible company targets shrinks. The acquisition would have
been BHP’s biggest since buying WMC Resources Ltd. in 2005 and
the largest takeover this year.  Possible Targets  Anadarko Petroleum Ltd.  and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd.  may be
acquisition targets for BHP, UBS AG said Nov. 5. Riversdale
Mining Ltd., closely held U.S.-based coal company Drummond Co.
and another large-scale potash producer may also be potential
targets, it said.  JPMorgan, Toronto-Dominion Bank, Banco Santander SA,
Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce were BHP’s advisers on
the deal, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Potash Corp. was advised by Bank of America Corp., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Canada.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 