-- Diabetes Costs China $26 Billion a Year, Researchers Find
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e
-- 2010-11-14T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/china-s-annual-26-billion-diabetes-bill-to-skyrocket-researchers-report.html
China’s diabetes-related medical
costs, estimated at 173.4 billion yuan ($26 billion) annually,
will skyrocket in 10 to 20 years as 100 million sufferers seek
treatment and care for related ailments such as kidney failure,
stroke and blindness, health officials said.  Diabetes accounts for about 13 percent of medical
expenditures in China, the  International Diabetes Federation 
said in a statement distributed before a media briefing in
Beijing today to mark  World Diabetes Day . The finding is based
on preliminary data from a nationwide survey completed in
August.  China’s diabetics report three to four times more
hospitalizations, out-patient and emergency-room visits than
people without the condition, scientists from the Brussels-based
federation and the Chinese Diabetes Society said. Their research
follows a March study that showed China has 92.4 million people
with diabetes, more than twice as many as previously estimated,
and the most in the world.  “Diabetes prevalence is skyrocketing in China and people
are getting diabetes at a younger age,” the federation said.
“China has a window of real opportunity to prevent an epidemic
of serious diabetes complications, which will increase spending
dramatically.”  China will have lost $558 billion of national income to
diabetes and heart disease between 2005 and 2015, the World
Health Organization and World Economic Forum said in a 2008
 report . Smoking, dietary changes and sedentary lifestyles are
stoking a surge in heart disease and stroke in China that will
kill an additional 7.7 million people over the next two decades,
researchers at New York’s  Columbia University  said in May.  Stroke, Blindness  Medical costs related to diabetes will “increase rapidly”
over the next two decades as about 50 million undiagnosed
Chinese seek care, and as they and 50 million Chinese whose
illness has been identified start developing preventable
complications such as stroke, blindness and kidney disease, the
federation said today.  Health expenditures for people in China who’ve had diabetes
for at least a decade are more than fivefold those for patients
who have had the condition for one to two years, it said.  Fewer than 5 percent of Chinese people with diabetes have
experienced stroke, heart attack and heart failure, and fewer
than 5 percent report kidney disease, eye surgery, or problems
with their feet or legs, according to the survey results. About
5,000 people were interviewed between January 2008 and August
2010 in 12 sites for the nationally representative study. The
early results are based on 1,920 responses from five sites.  While half the people interviewed use blood glucose-
lowering drugs, only 1 percent use medicines for cholesterol and
13 percent take aspirin to prevent stroke.  “These unused drugs are inexpensive and highly effective
and can together lower the risk of complications by 50 percent
or more,” the federation said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Gale  in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  