-- China to Speed Up Exports of Rare Earths, Japan Says
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-15T07:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/china-may-speed-up-rare-earth-exports-after-delays-japan-minister-says.html
China, the world’s largest
producer of rare-earth metals, will speed up exports of the
minerals after delays disrupted supply, according to Japan’s
Trade Minister  Akihiro Ohata .  “I got the impression that this will be resolved
soon,” Ohata told reporters on Nov. 13 after meeting his
Chinese counterpart,  Zhang Ping , at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum in Yokohama. China has instructed officials
to accelerate inspections of rare earth exports, Ohata said
after his meeting with Zhang.  Rare-earth prices have surged as much as sevenfold after
China in July reduced its second-half export quota by 72
percent to ensure domestic supply of the minerals, used by
companies including Toyota Motor Corp. and  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S. , the world’s largest wind turbine maker.  Zhang, head of China’s National Development and Reform
Commission, said the country has about one-third of the
world’s rare-earth deposits, yet ships about 97 percent of
global supply, risking depletion of its reserves in 10 to 15
years. China’s customs’ officials have ramped up export
inspections to reduce smuggling, which siphons off 20 percent
to 30 percent of output, the Chinese Society of Rare Earths
said last week.  China’s Ministry of Commerce in September denied
imposing a ban on exports to Japan, the world’s biggest user
of rare earth metals. Calls to the ministry’s media enquiry’s
number today were not immediately answered. For the full-year,
China cut the export quota by 40 percent to 30,258 tons, said
Chen Zhanheng, the head of research at the Chinese Society of
Rare Earths.  Free Trade  Zhang and Ohata spoke as leaders of  APEC ’s 21 economies,
which account for more than 50 percent of the global economy
and almost 45 percent of its trade, were meeting in Yokohama
to discuss issues affecting the global economy.  Their meeting followed the Nov. 11-12 Group of 20 summit
in Seoul that “opposed protectionist trade actions” while
failing to agree on a remedy for trade and investment
distortions.  The potential shortage of rare earths from China
prompted companies including Greenwood, Colorado-based
 Molycorp Inc.  to announce plans to restart and develop mines
to make up the supply shortfall. German Chancellor Angela
Merkel called for expanded production in Eastern Europe and
Central Asia as an alternative supply.  Tanks and Radars  In addition to hybrid vehicles and wind turbines, rare-
earth metals are used in  Lockheed Martin Corp.  radars and
General Dynamics Corp. tanks. The term rare earth applies to
a group of 17 chemically similar metal elements including
cerium, lanthanum and neodymium.  China plans to set up strategic reserves for 10 metals
including rare earths, according to a report by the  Ministry
of Land and Resources’  newspaper posted on the department’s
website today. The 10 metals include rare earths, tungsten,
antimony, molybdenum, indium, germanium, gallium, tantalum,
zirconium and tin, according to the report.  Japan’s stockpiles of rare earths may run out as early
as March, Agence France-Presse cited  Yoshikatsu Nakayama ,
vice minister of economy trade and industry, as saying on Oct.
21.  The disruption of shipments to Japan came around the
same time that a Chinese fishing boat collided with two
Japanese Coast Guard vessels near islands claimed by both
sides in the South China Sea, leading to speculation that
China was reducing exports in retaliation.  New Supply  Japan is diversifying its sources of rare earths
following the flare-up of tensions over the uninhabited
islands, known as the Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in
Chinese, Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  said in an interview
last month.  Sovereignty over the area includes rights to undersea
natural gas and oil reserves and China and Japan have yet to
implement a 2008 agreement to jointly develop the gas fields.  China’s Commerce Minister on Oct. 20 pledged to maintain
supplies of rare earths and said there was no embargo on
shipments.  In a meeting with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  at the
APEC forum, Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  “conveyed
Japan’s firm stance” on the disputed islands, according to
 Tetsuro Fukuyama , Japan’s deputy chief cabinet secretary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 Sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 