-- Commonwealth Bank Says September Quarter Cash Earnings About $1.58 Billion
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2010-11-15T05:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/commonwealth-bank-says-september-quarter-cash-earnings-about-1-57-billion.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia 
reported first-quarter unaudited cash profit of about A$1.6
billion ($1.58 billion) as the nation’s biggest lender confronts
“muted” credit growth and rising wholesale funding costs.  The Sydney-based bank’s impairment expense for the three
months ended Sept. 30 was A$321 million, it said in a statement
today in Sydney. The  shares  gained 0.6 percent to A$48.86 in
Sydney as of 4:10 p.m.  “Operating conditions remain challenging,” Chief
Executive Officer Ralph Norris said in the statement. “Credit
growth remains muted, and margins continue to come under
pressure from higher average funding costs and price
competition.”  Commonwealth Bank and its three largest rivals including
 Westpac Banking Corp.  face a backlash by homeowners and verbal
attacks from lawmakers after all four raised their standard
variable mortgage rates by more than the Nov. 2 quarter-
percentage point move by the central bank. The nation’s Green
Party introduced laws into the lower house today preventing
increases that outpace Reserve Bank of Australia moves.  Westpac this month posted second-half profit that almost
tripled, and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. last
month said second-half profit jumped 69 percent to a record.
 National Australia Bank Ltd. , the biggest lender to companies,
reported a 32 percent gain in cash profit.  Commonwealth Bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a key measure of
financial health, was 9.6 percent as of Sept. 30, it said today.  “Whilst we have passed the peak in the bad debt cycle,
improvement in key credit quality indicators continues to be
gradual, rather than dramatic,” Norris said in the statement.  The bank expects a “gradual improvement in operating
conditions in the second half of this financial year, as the
economic recovery strengthens” and demand for credit rebounds,
Norris said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  