-- Emaar Properties, Etisalat, Vodafone, Union National: Gulf Equity Preview
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-11-14T05:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/emaar-properties-etisalat-vodafone-union-national-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or
fall in Gulf Arab markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
prices are from the last close.  The  Dubai Financial Market General Index  retreated 0.9
percent to 1,691.65. Abu Dhabi’s  measure  slipped 0.1 percent,
while Qatar’s  gauge  gained 0.4 percent.  Emaar Properties PJSC  (EMAAR UH): The builder of the
world’s tallest skyscraper in Dubai said the loan due from Amlak
Finance PJSC, the Islamic mortgage company being reorganized by
the United Arab Emirates government, is “fully recoverable.”
The shares declined 1.3 percent to 3.67 dirhams.       Emirates Telecommunications Corp.  (ETISALAT UH): The Middle
East’s largest phone company plans to raise as much as $8
billion by selling bonds and sukuk as it seeks to buy 46 percent
of Kuwait’s Mobile Telecommunications Co., known as Zain.  Separately, Etisalat said its Afghan unit signed an
agreement with local authorities for a rural telecommunications
project. The shares decreased 0.5 percent to 11 dirhams.  Vodafone Qatar  (VFQS QD): The venture between Vodafone
Group Plc and state-controlled Qatar Foundation said its six-
month loss narrowed to 312.4 million riyals ($85.8 million) from
349.4 million-riyals a year ago. The shares fell 0.6 percent to
8.15 riyals.       Union National Bank PJSC  (UNB UH): The company in which the
governments of Abu Dhabi and Dubai hold stakes “recently”
renewed a Euro medium-term note program for $3 billion. The
lender commented on a report in the newspaper al-Bayan that said
it was studying plans to raise up to 11 billion dirhams ($3
billion) by selling bonds next year. The shares were unchanged
at 3.48 dirhams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  