-- Genzyme in Talks to Sell Itself to Takeda, Mail Says
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2010-11-15T08:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/genzyme-seeks-to-sell-itself-to-takeda-mail-on-sunday-reports.html
Genzyme Corp.  started talks with
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.  to try to sell itself for more than
$18.5 billion, the Mail on Sunday  reported , citing a person
familiar with the matter.  Takeda, which could pay $82 a share, is among several
drugmakers that Genzyme has approached in recent weeks to foil a
hostile $69-a-share offer from Sanofi-Aventis SA, the London
newspaper said. Mihoko Shinomiya, a spokeswoman for Osaka,
Japan-based Takeda, declined to comment on the report, saying
the company doesn’t respond to market speculation.  Genzyme Chief Executive Officer  Henri Termeer  told
investors last month the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
biotechnology company was trying to assess its value and gauge
outside interest. He estimated Genzyme could be worth $89 a
share after lifting its profit forecast. Sanofi took its offer
for Genzyme hostile on Oct. 4 after the largest maker of
medicines for rare genetic disorders spurned the bid as too low.  “Genzyme has been apparently talking to different
companies to find better match/price and/or force Sanofi to get
serious,”  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment officer at First
Empire Asset Management Inc. in Hauppauge, New York, said in an
e-mail today.  “Buying Genzyme would make sense for Takeda,” he said.
“Takeda has been trying to aggressively grow their U.S.
business.”  Different Focus  Obuchowski said his company owns about $600,000 of Genzyme
shares.  Takeda  fell  0.5 percent to 3,920 yen in Tokyo trading,
while Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.1 percent. Genzyme
dropped 0.5 percent to $69.84 on the Nasdaq Stock Market on Nov.
12, trimming its advance this year to 43 percent.  Takeda shares fell on concerns the company may sell new
shares to finance the acquisition, said  Fumiyoshi Sakai , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo. Takeda makes Actos,
the world’s best-selling diabetes drug.  “Genzyme makes treatments for rare diseases, which is
different from the area of focus of Takeda,” said Sakai, who
rates the stock “neutral.” “It’s not impossible for Takeda to
finance the acquisition, but it doesn’t strengthen Takeda’s
pipeline.”  GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer  London-based GlaxoSmithKline Plc, New York-based Pfizer
Inc. and Eli Lilly & Co., based in Indianapolis, also have been
linked with potential bids for Genzyme, the report in
yesterday’s Mail on Sunday said. Paris-based Sanofi is the only
bidder for Genzyme, CNBC reported Nov. 10.  Genzyme’s  drugs  for genetic diseases are made using
biological processes and are harder for generic competitors to
copy than pills made from chemicals. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration has designated the therapies “orphan drugs”
because they target diseases that lack other treatment options,
giving them added patent protection.  Takeda predicts  net income  will fall to 230 billion yen
($2.8 billion) in the 12 months ending March 31 and to 200
billion yen in the fiscal year ending March 2013, a 12-year low,
as competition from generic copies of Actos erodes profit.  Takeda is targeting cancer, metabolic diseases and central
nervous system ailments such as Alzheimer’s disease and
Parkinson’s disease for drug development. The drugmaker, Asia’s
largest, has about $5 billion available for acquisitions and
“could easily borrow $10 billion,” President  Yasuchika Hasegawa  said in a Sept. 22 interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kanoko Matsuyama  in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Gale  in Tokyo at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  