-- Mighty Aussie Lets Stevens Stem Prices, Avoid Currency Controls
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-15T09:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/mighty-aussie-rising-17-lets-stevens-stem-prices-avoid-currency-controls.html
At a time when nations from Japan to
Brazil are struggling to keep currency gains from damaging their
economies, Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  is
welcoming a stronger exchange rate.  Australia’s dollar has advanced 19 percent since the end of
June, the most of the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
data, reaching parity with the U.S. dollar last month for the
first time since July 1982. The rally may help curb inflation as
sales of iron ore and coal to China bring in fewer local
dollars. When Stevens surprised investors by boosting interest
rates on Nov. 2, he said in a statement that the rising currency
“will assist, at the margin, in containing pressure on
inflation.”  Stevens is allowing gains while Japan sold yen for the
first time since 2004, and Brazil, South Korea and Taiwan raise
barriers to foreign investors. World leaders from countries
including Japan, Brazil and China have said the U.S. is debasing
its currency through the Federal Reserve’s plan to print dollars
so it can buy $600 billion of Treasuries.  “The Australian dollar is among what we’re calling the
world’s new safe havens,” said  Jonathan Lewis , founding
principal of New York-based Samson Capital Advisors LLC, which
manages $6.9 billion and specializes in bonds and currencies.
The so-called Aussie “floats more freely than others,” he
said. “Even free-float currencies must have an asterisk next to
their names because of central bank interventions.”  Buying Bonds  After meetings in Seoul last week, leaders of the Group of
20 nations agreed to seek gradual changes in currency values,
providing some countries with cover to enact capital controls to
limit exchange-rate swings.  Prospects for the Aussie are prompting some of the world’s
biggest bond investors to pile into the nation’s debt, even
though Stevens signaled more rate increases may come.  Lewis has twice the percentage of Australian dollars in
client accounts than what’s contained in the benchmark index
Samson uses to gauge performance. Kokusai Global Sovereign Open,
Asia’s biggest bond fund, boosted its investment in Australia
to a record 15 percent of assets this year.  “The Australian economy is healthy,” said  Masataka Horii ,
one of four managers for Kokusai’s $37.5 billion Global
Sovereign fund in Tokyo. “The Reserve Bank of Australia will
continue to hike its policy rate, and the currency will
appreciate.”  ‘Aggressive’ Bank  Samsung Investment Trust Management Co., South Korea’s
largest private fixed-income investor, is starting a fund next
year to invest in Australian debt.  “Australia has one of the most aggressive central banks in
the world,” said  Sungjin Park , who oversees the equivalent of
$55.9 billion as head of fixed income for Samsung in Seoul. “A
lot of fund managers in Asia, including China and Japan, think
Australian bonds are more attractive” than other sovereign debt
in the region, he said.  The government’s Nov. 10 auction of debt maturing in July
2022 attracted  bids  for 4.55 times the amount of securities
available, the most since the nation expanded its borrowing
program in 2009.  The Aussie slipped 0.1 percent today to 98.36 U.S. cents as
of 8:58 a.m. in London, rising from this year’s low of 80.67
cents in May. It climbed as high as $1.0183 on Nov. 5.  Outpacing Forecasts  Analysts failed to predict the gains. The Aussie finished
the third quarter at 96.71 U.S. cents, while the median estimate
of strategists and economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for 88.
They are now catching up with the rally, raising their mid-2011
estimate to 99 U.S. cents from 88 two month ago.  The Australian dollar’s advance has made it the world’s
most expensive currency based on purchasing power parity, a
measure of the cost of goods relative to other countries. The
gauge shows the Aussie is trading at a 30 percent premium,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s very overvalued and it’s unlikely to remain that way
for a substantial period,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange
strategist in London at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a
unit of Japan’s largest publicly traded bank.  Australia’s jobless rate of 5.4 percent compares with 9.6
percent in the U.S. and 10.1 percent in the euro zone. The
International Monetary Fund  predicts  Australia’s economy will
expand 3.5 percent next year from 3 percent in 2010, compared
with 2.3 percent in the U.S. and 1.5 percent in Europe.  China Growth  The figure will be 9.6 percent for China, the IMF projects,
stoking demand for resources from Australia, the world’s biggest
exporter of iron ore and coal. Chinese imports of  iron  averaged
51.5 million tons a month this year and last, compared with 37
million tons monthly in 2008.  Shipments of commodities to China are boosting employment.
BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
said Oct. 31 it will build a $15 billion liquefied natural gas
venture in Queensland. The project will likely create 5,000
jobs, the Reading, U.K.-based company said.  Australian employers added 29,700 workers in October from
the previous month, the statistics bureau reported on Nov. 11. A
Bloomberg News survey of economists projected 20,000.  The hiring threatens to boost inflation, which the central
bank  aims  to keep in a range of 2 percent to 3 percent.  Consumer
prices  rose 2.8 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, versus 3.1 percent in the April-to-June period, the
government said Oct. 27.  Raising Rates  The Reserve Bank of Australia, known as the RBA, has lifted
its  target  for overnight lending between banks seven times since
October 2009. The latest move was a quarter-point increase to
4.75 percent on Nov. 2. In his statement that day, Stevens
highlighted the prospect for growth by saying he expected
“stronger private spending over the next couple of years.”  Benchmark rates in the U.S. and Japan are both near zero.
Central banks in both nations are also buying government bonds,
a strategy known as quantitative easing that pumps money into
the economy. Japan sold yen on Sept. 15 to stem the currency’s
rally to a 15-year high.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said earlier this month
the U.S. was pursuing a “weak-dollar policy,” and Chinese
central bank adviser  Xia Bin  said that U.S. quantitative easing
amounts to “uncontrolled” money printing. Brazil’s President-
Elect  Dilma Rousseff  said last week other countries are carrying
the cost of the U.S. debasing its currency.  Stevens’ tolerance of a stronger local dollar contrasts
with officials from other nations who are concerned gains will
curb demand for exports and lead investors seeking higher yields
to flood their markets with money.  Currency Controls  Brazil President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  tripled a tax on
foreigners’ fixed-income purchases last month to 6 percent.
South Korea may revive a 14 percent tax on bonds held by
international investors as early as January, ruling party
lawmaker  Kim Song Sik  said in an interview in Seoul on Nov. 9.  Taiwan said on Nov. 9 it would limit foreign investment in
government bonds and money-market products to a maximum of 30
percent of the value of an overseas fund’s portfolio.  Currency gains will help Stevens cool growth, said  Ken Leech , head of the global investment strategy committee for
Western Asset Management Co., Legg Mason Inc.’s bond unit.  “We don’t think they’re going to intervene,” Leech, who
helps oversee $482.2 billion for Pasadena, California-based
Western Asset, said at a Nov. 2 seminar in Singapore.  The Australian economy is attractive enough to draw
Franklin Templeton Investments, making the San Mateo,
California, company the second-largest holder of the nation’s
debt behind Kokusai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Fundamentals remain better in Australia than the U.S.,
and despite the recent appreciation should allow the currency to
remain strong,” said  David Zahn , who helps oversee Franklin’s
$664.3 billion in assets as a London-based senior money manager
in the fixed-income group. “It is responsible to hike rates to
keep the economy from overheating and keep inflation in check,”
he said in an e-mail. “The rise in the currency does some of
this for the RBA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 