-- Indian Oil Bets Profit Gain May Help Lure Investors to Record Share Sale
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-11-15T11:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/indian-oil-profit-gain-may-lure-investors-to-record-share-sale.html
Indian Oil Corp.  is betting its
biggest profit gain in at least 11 years will help lure
investors to a share sale that may raise a record 195.5 billion
rupees ($4.4 billion).  Net income  rose more than 18-fold to 52.9 billion rupees
for the three months ended Sept. 30, from 2.8 billion rupees a
year earlier, after the government compensated state-run Indian
Oil for below-cost fuel sales, the New Delhi-based company said
in a statement on Nov. 13. That compared with the average 10.6
billion rupee  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Investors look at profits, and this quarter has been very
good,” Chairman  B.M. Bansal  said in an interview in New Delhi.
“People are aware that the government compensates the company:
people will bid with that in mind.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration and the
company plan to sell equity in the quarter ending March after
overseas investments pushed India’s benchmark Sensitive Index to
an all-time high this month. The offering may be the nation’s
largest share sale, surpassing State Bank of India’s 2008 rights
offer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government, which holds 79 percent of Indian Oil, plans
to sell a 10 percent stake as part of an asset-sale program
aimed at cutting the budget deficit. The refiner will also offer
shares equivalent to a similar stake to reduce debt as it builds
a new refinery and looks for possible ventures overseas.  Previous Record  Indian Oil’s  shares  have gained 30 percent this year,
outpacing the 16 percent increase in the  Sensitive Index . The
stock fell 0.9 percent to 398.95 rupees at the close today.  The combined share sale, based on the Nov. 12 closing stock
price, may surpass the previous record of the 167.4 billion
rupees raised by State Bank, India’s largest lender, Bloomberg
data show. It would also best Coal India Ltd.’s 154.8 billion
rupee record initial public sale in October, and ICICI Bank
Ltd.’s $2.46 billion U.S. offering in 2007, the data show.  The share-sale efforts may be bolstered by accelerating
economic growth in India, which aims to expand gross domestic
product at an average annual rate of 10 percent, up from the 8.5
percent forecast for this year. The nation freed gasoline prices
from state control in June while continuing to set rates for
other fuels, including diesel.  “The economy is on the move and demand for cars and
automobiles is increasing,” said  D.K. Aggarwal , who manages
about $100 million as chairman of SMC Wealth Management Services
Ltd. in New Delhi. “Free gasoline prices will bring in more
stability to income and that would attract investors.”  Government Compensation  Indian Oil sells diesel, kerosene and cooking gas below
cost to help the government curb inflation. State refiners are
partly compensated by the government and oil producers including
 Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  and Oil India Ltd.  The government gave Indian Oil 72.2 billion rupees as
compensation in the quarter, according to the Nov. 13 statement.
The refiner didn’t account for any payment a year earlier.  “State-run refiners depend too heavily on government
support,”  Alex Mathews , head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas
Financial Services Ltd. at Kochi in southern India, said on Nov.
12. “The government supported them this quarter and we don’t
know what will happen in the next.”  The refiner may appoint at least six banks by Nov. 20 to
manage the share sale, finance director  Serangulam V. Narasimhan 
said Nov. 13.  Bids by Banks  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Credit Suisse Group AG are
among 18 banks seeking to be hired, and were scheduled to make
presentations to a panel from Nov. 14 to Nov. 16, according to a
statement on the company’s website. Citigroup Inc., Deutsche
Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, Morgan Stanley, UBS AG and Kotak
Mahindra Capital Co. are also listed.  Indian Oil operates about 33 percent of the nation’s
refining capacity and is building a 15 million metric ton-a-year
plant in the eastern state of Orissa. The company added 3
million tons of capacity at its Panipat refinery this month.
Before the expansion, Indian Oil and its unit had a combined
capacity of 61.7 million tons a year, according to its  website .  Gasoline prices were increased four times since the price
controls were removed on June 25, according to the company’s
website.  “This is a step in the right direction as it helps reduce
the refiners’ dependence on subsidies,” said Mathews of Geojit
BNP Paribas.  Indian Oil’s average gross refining margin for the quarter
was $6.63 a barrel compared with $3.62 a year earlier, the
company said. Sales rose 15 percent to 693.4 billion rupees.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp.  reported second-quarter profit of
20.9 billion rupees and Bharat Petroleum Corp. posted net income
of 21.4 billion rupees. Both state refiners had losses a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net  