-- Patriots, Jets Improve to 7-2; Cowboys Beat Giants: NFL Week 10 Roundup
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-11-15T05:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/jets-improve-to-7-2-with-overtime-win-bills-get-first-win-nfl-week-10.html
The New England Patriots and New
York Jets won road games to remain tied for the National
Football League’s best record, while Dallas beat the New
York Giants in  Jason Garrett ’s debut as Cowboys coach.  The Patriots beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 39-26 in a match-
up of 6-2 teams last night as quarterback  Tom Brady  threw three
touchdown passes to rookie Rob Gronkowski and also ran for
another score.  “The defense played great, the offensive line played
incredible and our guys came up with some big plays when we
needed it,” Brady said during a televised interview. “It was
definitely a team win.”  The Patriots’ victory came after the Jets beat the
Cleveland Browns 26-20 on a 37-yard touchdown catch by  Santonio Holmes  with 16 seconds left in overtime. At 7-2, the Jets and
Patriots are tied atop the American Football Conference’s East
Division and with Atlanta for the NFL’s best record.  The Giants missed a chance for a 7-2 start with a 33-20
home loss to the Cowboys that ended their five-game win streak.
The Cowboys had entered the game as two-touchdown underdogs
after five straight losses.  “I hope it’s a good feeling for our fans, but don’t think
for one minute that it’s a consolation about how we’ve stunk it
up this year,” Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones , who fired  Wade Phillips  as coach last week, told reporters. “It’s not, it’s
just a way for us to get going.”  Brady Leads Patriots  In Pittsburgh, the Patriots rebounded from last week’s loss
in Cleveland as Brady threw for 350 yards against the NFL’s top
scoring defense.  James Sanders added a 32-yard interception return for a
score for New England, which out-gained the Steelers 453-425 in
total yardage. Pittsburgh dropped to 6-3.  In Cleveland, Holmes caught a pass from quarterback  Mark Sanchez  on the first play of the Jets’ fourth overtime
possession and slipped through three Browns defenders for the
winning score. The Browns’ defensive coordinator is  Rob Ryan ,
the twin brother of Jets coach  Rex Ryan .  Holmes’s touchdown was the third-latest since overtime
began in 1974 and helped the Jets avoid their first tie in 22
years. The Jets became the first NFL team with back-to-back
overtime road wins, having beaten Detroit 23-20 last week.  The Browns (3-6) had two turnovers, including  Chansi Stuckey ’s fumble at the Jets’ 36-yard line in overtime.  Missed Field Goals  Nick Folk  missed three field goals for New York, including
a 47-yard attempt in overtime, before Holmes pulled out the win
with his first touchdown of the season. It was the Jets’ eighth
straight regular-season road win.  “You talk about how resilient this team is, that’s two
road wins in a row in overtime, that’s about as tough as it
gets,” Jets coach Rex Ryan said at a news conference.  At New Meadowlands Stadium,  Jon Kitna  had 327 passing yards
for the Cowboys and threw touchdown passes to  Dez Bryant ,  Felix Jones  and  Miles Austin .  Dallas’s defense forced three turnovers, including a 101-
yard interception return for a touchdown by  Bryan McCann . The
Cowboys built a 26-6 lead and held the Giants without a
touchdown until the 9:01 mark of the third quarter.  The score came after the game was halted because of a
second power outage that left the new $1.6 billion stadium in
almost complete darkness. Stadium officials are investigating
the cause of the outages.  The Cowboys, who three weeks ago lost at home to the Giants
41-35, were the third NFL team this season to enter a game as
two-touchdown underdogs at Las Vegas sports books. They’re the
only one to win.  Lead Narrows  The Giants fall to 6-3 and hold a half-game lead in the
National Football Conference’s East Division over the
Philadelphia Eagles (5-3), who visit Washington tonight.  The Buffalo Bills are no longer the NFL’s lone winless team
after beating Detroit 14-12 in Buffalo.  Fred Jackson  scored two
touchdowns and the Bills (1-8) held on for the win when the
Lions (2-7) failed on a two-point conversion attempt with 19
seconds remaining.  The Jacksonville Jaguars beat the Houston Texans 31-24 when
 Mike Thomas  caught a 50-yard touchdown pass on the game’s final
play. Texans defensive back  Glover Quin  batted the throw by
Jaguars quarterback  David Garrard  into the hands of Thomas, who
caught it at the 1-yard line and then stepped into the end zone.  The Indianapolis Colts improved to 6-3 by forcing five
turnovers in a 23-17 win over the Cincinnati Bengals, while the
Chicago Bears intercepted  Brett Favre  three times to beat the
Minnesota Vikings 27-13.  Elsewhere in Week 10 it was Tampa Bay 31, Carolina 16;
Miami 29, Tennessee 17; Denver 49, Kansas City 29; San Francisco
23, St. Louis 20 in overtime; and Seattle 36, Arizona 18.
Atlanta beat Baltimore 26-21 on Nov. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  