-- Netanyahu Likely to Win Backing for U.S. Plan to Revive Talks
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-11-15T09:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/netanyahu-likely-to-win-backing-for-u-s-plan-to-revive-peace-negotiations.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is likely to line up his government behind a U.S.
proposal for a renewed settlement freeze aimed at getting
Israelis and Palestinians talking again.  Palestinian leaders are also likely to return to the
negotiations, even though they say the U.S. plan doesn’t go far
enough in reining in Israeli construction, analysts said.  Netanyahu presented the terms of the plan, which include a
90-day freeze on settlement building in the West Bank, to his
Cabinet in Jerusalem yesterday.  He will be able to win approval “with significant
difficulty,” said  Gerald Steinberg , a political scientist at
Bar-Ilan University outside Tel Aviv. While he may suffer “a
couple of resignations” from the Cabinet over the issue, “his
government won’t collapse,” Steinberg said.  Acceptance of the plan by Israeli and Palestinian officials
would keep alive at least temporarily President  Barack Obama ’s initiative to prod the two sides toward a
comprehensive peace agreement. It would still leave them far
apart on fundamental issues, said analysts including  Jonathan Spyer , a political scientist at Israel’s Interdisciplinary
Center Herzliya, near Tel Aviv.  “The Americans will want to do everything they can to keep
the talks on track,” Spyer said. “But it is a losing game, and
everyone knows that.”  Shas May Abstain  While Netanyahu faced criticism yesterday from some members
of his own Likud party, including Vice Premier  Silvan Shalom , he
is counting on support from other Likud members as well as Labor
Party ministers to get the proposal approved.  The ultra-Orthodox Shas said it would likely abstain in any
vote on the U.S. plan as long as building continued in all areas
of Jerusalem, nullifying a potential source of opposition to
Netanyahu, Israel Radio said.  "We are talking here about an effort to put behind us the
arguments about the building in settlements and to move on to
fundamental issues, namely how to arrive at a breakthrough with
the Palestinians, the deepening of our relations with the U.S.,
and strengthening the security of the state of Israel,’’ Defense
Minister  Ehud Barak , whose Labor Party supports negotiations
with the Palestinians, told Israel’s Army Radio today.  ‘Constructive Step’  Obama said Netanyahu had taken “a very constructive step”
in presenting the plan to his Cabinet. Speaking to reporters
yesterday on his return from a 10-day trip to Asia, Obama said
Netanyahu’s move was “a signal that he’s serious” about
resuming negotiations. “I think it’s promising,” Obama said.  Palestinian officials, while not rejecting the proposal
outright, criticized it because it doesn’t include a ban on
building in east Jerusalem.  Even with that limitation, Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  is likely in the end to agree to resume direct
talks should the Israelis embrace the U.S. plan, said Mkhaimar
Abusada, a political scientist at Gaza’s Al-Azhar University.  Abbas, he said, agreed previously to negotiate with
Netanyahu without a freeze on east Jerusalem building when the
two leaders met in the U.S. to kick off direct talks in early
September.  “Abbas and the Palestinians basically do not have other
options than the U.S.,” Abusada said. “Palestinians do not
want to be blamed by the U.S. for not proceeding with the
negotiations. They want the blame put on the Netanyahu
government.”  Provision for Warplanes  In return for renewing the moratorium, Israel would get
U.S. backing in the United Nations as well as 20 advanced
warplanes, according to diplomats familiar with the deal. The
U.S. would also commit to refrain from seeking any further halt
to settlement construction after the 90 days were up, the
diplomats said.  Palestinian Authority spokesman  Ghassan Khatib  said any
freeze on settlement building would have to extend beyond the
three months if the negotiations also did.  The renewed freeze would apply to any new construction
begun since a previous 10-month moratorium ended on Sept. 26,
the diplomats said.  West Bank settlers have begun construction on 1,649 housing
units in 63 settlements since the building ban expired, Israel’s
Peace Now group said in an e-mailed statement.  Netanyahu and Abbas agreed in September to try to forge an
agreement on the framework for a comprehensive peace accord
within a year. All the issues at the core of the conflict would
be on the table, including the borders of a future Palestinian
state, security arrangements for Israel, the status of Jerusalem
and the right of return for Palestinian refugees.  ‘Big Mistake’  Likud ministers, including Shalom, said they expected the
U.S. to press for an agreement on the borders of a Palestinian
state while the freeze is in effect.  “During those three months the pressure on us will be
stronger than ever to decide on our permanent borders and reach
an agreement based on those borders,” Shalom told Israel Radio.
“If that happens it will be a very big mistake.”  An agreement on final borders would resolve the dispute
over settlements and the issue of where Israel could build.  Israel is unlikely to accept that approach. None of the
core issues of the conflict can be discussed in isolation, said
an official in the prime minister’s office, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to comment
on the matter. Israel can’t reach agreement on the final borders
of a Palestinian state until it knows the character of that
state, the official said.  Both sides are ultimately more concerned about looking
“like good guys in front of the Americans” than reaching
consensus on politically sensitive issues, said Spyer.  -- With assistance from  Julianna Goldman  in Washington. Editors:
 Peter Hirschberg ,  Ken Fireman , Heather Langan, Karl Maier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 