-- Obama Tells Medvedev Passing Nuclear Treaty in Congress Is `Top Priority'
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2010-11-14T02:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/obama-tells-medvedev-he-aims-to-get-nuclear-treaty-with-russdia-ratified.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  told
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  that he is committed to
getting Congress to ratify a bilateral nuclear arms reduction
treaty before this year’s post-election session ends.  Obama, speaking after meeting with Medvedev on the
sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in
Yokohama, Japan, said the two leaders “had a very productive
session” and “have built up an excellent relationship.”  Obama and Medvedev signed the New Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty in April after the previous accord expired last December.
This month’s Congressional victories by Republicans, who
generally oppose the treaty, prompted a Russian parliamentary
committee to withdraw its support while assessing whether the
U.S. can pass it.  “I reiterated my commitment to get the START treaty done
during the lame-duck session,” Obama said. “And I’ve
communicated to Congress that it is a top priority.”  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said that Obama
expressed his “full adherence” to seeking to speed up Russia’s
17-year bid to join the  World Trade Organization . Russia is the
largest economy outside of the 153-member WTO and has been
working toward membership for 17 years.  Medvedev’s government faces an obstacle in joining the
trade body from the former Soviet republic of Georgia, which
lost a five-day war to Russia in 2008 and has threatened to
block entry if its northern neighbor doesn’t lift a four-year-
old economic embargo. Lavrov today played down Georgia’s
opposition.  “Claims that the Georgian side is putting forward do not
relate to the WTO functioning or to the process of Russia
joining to WTO,” he said.  The Georgian government seeks the legalization of two
customs checkpoints on the border with Russia, one located in
Abkhazia and the second in South Ossetia. Russia recognized
those regions as independent after the 2008 war.  Medvedev also told Obama that Russia “is in favor of
accelerating our cooperation on security issues,” Lavrov said,
adding that they discussed this month’s  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  summit in Lisbon that the Russian leader will
attend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Yokohama at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Lyubov Pronina  in Yokohama at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  