-- Retail Sales Probably Rose, Production Rebounded as U.S. Recovery Sped Up
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-11-14T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/retail-sales-probably-rose-in-october-u-s-economy-preview.html
Retail sales probably rose in
October for a fourth month and factory production rebounded,
adding to evidence the U.S. recovery picked up at the start of
the fourth quarter, economists said before reports this week.  A projected 0.7 percent gain in  purchases  is based on the
median estimate of 67 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a Commerce Department report tomorrow. Other figures may
show inflation was contained.  “It’s a good sign for the economic recovery when you see
consumers spending more consistently,” said  Jonathan Basile , an
economist at Credit Suisse in New York. “That’s been supported
by better job growth, better income growth and fatter
paychecks.”  Combined with earlier data showing bigger-than-projected
gains in payrolls and  manufacturing , the reports may boost
confidence the U.S. rebound will be sustained. At the same time,
figures on retail prices this week will probably reinforce
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s concern that too-low
inflation is raising the risk of an outright drop in costs that
will hurt the expansion.  The last two months of the year are typically the biggest
U.S. shopping season and hiring time for retailers like  J.C.
Penney Co.  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  The National Retail
Federation has forecast November-December holiday sales will
rise by 2.3 percent from a year ago, the most since 2006.  J.C. Penney, the third-largest U.S. department-store
company, last week said third-quarter profit rose 63 percent.
Fourth-quarter sales at stores open at least a year will rise 3
percent to 4 percent, the Plano, Texas-based company said in a
Nov. 12 statement, adding that the holiday shopping environment
will “remain highly promotional.”  Retailer Shares  Investors have driven up retailer shares this year on signs
spending was starting to pick up. The  Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Retailing Index  has gained 18 percent since Dec.
31, compared with a 7.5 percent advance for the  S&P 500 .  Shares have also rallied over the past two months in
anticipation of more action by the Fed to spur growth. Policy
makers this month announced a plan to buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries through June with the aim of reducing
joblessness and averting a drop in prices.  Manufacturing remains a mainstay of the recovery.
Production at factories, mines and utilities climbed 0.3 percent
in October after a 0.2 percent decrease the previous month, the
first drop in more than a year, economists projected a Nov. 16
report from the Fed will show. Rising  exports  and gains in
business investment may keep factory assembly lines running.  Manufacturing Gains  The New York Fed’s Empire State manufacturing  index 
tomorrow and the Philadelphia Fed’s  general economic index  Nov.
18 will show factories kept expanding this month, according to
economists surveyed.  A gauge of the outlook for the U.S. economy over the next
three to six months probably increased 0.5 percent in October,
the biggest gain since May, according to the survey median
before a Nov. 18 report from the New York-based Conference
Board, a private research group. The index of U.S. leading
indicators has climbed in 16 of the past 18 months.  Other reports are projected to show that inflation is
decelerating after the world’s largest economy grew at a 2
percent or less annual pace over the past two quarters, less
than the Fed’s long-term goal.  The cost of living rose 0.3 percent in October after a 0.1
percent increase the prior month as fuel prices climbed,
according to the median forecast of economist surveyed before a
Labor Department report Nov. 17.  Less Inflation  Excluding food and fuel costs, a measure similar to the
Fed’s preferred gauge, so-called core prices rose 0.1 percent
last month and were up 0.7 percent from October 2009, the survey
showed. It would be the smallest year-over-year advance since
1961.  “In the most extreme case, very low inflation can morph
into deflation,” Bernanke said in an editorial published this
month by the Washington Post. That can “contribute to long
periods of economic stagnation.”  President  Barack Obama , whose Democratic Party this month
lost control of the House of Representatives to Republicans,
took up the warning last week, saying deflation poses a “huge
danger” to the U.S. “We have to be mindful of those dangers
going forward,” he told reporters in Seoul.  Leaders from Germany to Brazil have been critical of the
Fed’s latest plan because they say it has weakened the  dollar 
and fueled a rise in asset prices in emerging markets.  Another threat to sustained growth in the U.S. is the
housing market. Construction of new homes declined to a 600,000
 annual pace  in October from a 610,000 rate the previous month,
the survey showed ahead of a Nov. 17 Commerce Department report.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  