-- UBS Recovery Fizzles as Gruebel Sees Less Profit
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-11-15T13:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/ubs-recovery-fizzles-as-gruebel-sees-diminished-profit-after-lowering-risk.html
Oswald Gruebel is walking a
tightrope. He can encourage  UBS AG ’s investment bank to take
more risk or watch it fall further behind rivals.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, had the lowest revenue
from sales and trading in the first three quarters of this year
compared with eight main competitors and was the only one to
report a third-quarter pretax loss at its investment bank.  The Zurich-based firm made more from trading stocks and
bonds than the average of its competitors in 2005, before more
than $57 billion of writedowns and losses from the credit crisis
forced it to shrink the investment bank’s risk-weighted assets
44 percent. A lack of client business, combined with the lowest
value-at-risk, meant UBS barely made enough in the third quarter
to pay the 17,000 bankers in the unit.  “They have to start taking risk again or to pay less,”
said JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst  Kian Abouhossein , whose
recommendations on UBS produced the second-highest total returns
over the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“The question is do you really need the best people in the
market if you’re just running a very flow-oriented business?
That’s the dilemma that they need to decide.”  Gruebel, 66, will probably reiterate his profit targets at
a UBS investor conference tomorrow in London, analysts said. He
intends to boost annual pretax profit at the investment bank to
about 6 billion Swiss francs ($6.2 billion) and overall company
earnings to 15 billion francs in the next two to four years. The
securities unit earned 2.1 billion francs in the first nine
months of this year.  ‘Playing Catch-Up’  UBS’s sales and trading revenue averaged $2.58 billion a
quarter this year, 45 percent less than the average of $4.7
billion at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., JPMorgan,  Citigroup Inc .,  Bank of America Corp .,  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Barclays Plc , Morgan
Stanley and  Credit Suisse Group AG , and 27 percent behind its
own targets, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Gruebel, known as “Ossie,” set goals a year ago for the
investment bank to be making more than 2 billion francs a
quarter from trading bonds, currencies and commodities, and more
than 1.75 billion francs from equities trading.  “In equities, they’re massively off what was a leadership
position before the crisis,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an
analyst with Mediobanca SpA in London. “In debt trading, the 2
billion-franc target is not that mad, but Ossie will clearly
have to change the mix of the business. He’ll have to put a bit
more capital on the table because they’re playing catch-up.”  Value-at-Risk  UBS was the second-biggest equities trader behind Goldman
Sachs in 2005, taking home a 14.4 percent share of the total
sales and trading-revenue pool. That share was 10.4 percent in
the first three quarters of this year, as Credit Suisse,  Morgan
Stanley , JPMorgan and Bank of America overtook it, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from company reports. In debt
trading, the bank’s share of the revenue pool shrunk to 5
percent from 8.6 percent in 2005.  Gruebel told German newspaper  Welt am Sonntag  last month
that the investment bank needs to take higher risks again to
keep up with competitors.  UBS, which declined to make Gruebel available for an
interview ahead of tomorrow’s presentation, said in an e-mailed
comment that he was referring to the bank’s “considerably lower
value-at-risk,” or VaR, numbers compared with peers. “Higher
value-at-risk will mainly be driven by increased client activity
levels and the rebuild of selected client businesses,” the bank
said. Neither Gruebel nor UBS said how much the bank would
increase its VaR.  Twiddling Thumbs  UBS cut risk-weighted assets at its investment bank to
126.2 billion francs in the third quarter from 225.2 billion
francs in the first quarter of 2008. The bank’s VaR, a measure
of how much it could lose in the markets on average in a single
day, was $56 million in the third quarter, the lowest among its
main competitors that report the data. By comparison, the gauge
of risk was $121 million at Goldman Sachs and $142 million at
Morgan Stanley. The two banks are based in  New York .  “Relative to peers, UBS is still fairly under-risked,”
said Dirk Hoffmann-Becking, a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein with an “outperform” rating on the company’s stock.
“As a client-driven bank, you’re completely exposed to client
activity swings. If there is no client phoning, then literally
people sit there and twiddle their thumbs because they’re not
allowed to do anything else.”  ‘Balancing Act’  UBS put aside 83 percent of the investment bank’s revenue
in the third quarter as compensation for employees. For the
first nine months, that ratio was 56 percent, the highest
compared with Barclays, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman
Sachs, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley. Citigroup and Bank of
America don’t report such data.  Chief Financial Officer John Cryan, 49, told analysts and
investors last month that while the bank would like to bring
that ratio to below 50 percent, UBS has to pay its people “to
some extent regardless of the performance.”  “There is obviously a balancing act between the public
interest in banks reducing their bonus or compensation payments
generally, and what it takes to retain and attract stars,”
Cryan said. “We are a living example of a bank that
experimented with not paying people, and it didn’t come off very
well in 2008.”  The bank cut the 2008 bonus pool for all employees,
excluding U.S. brokers, by 78 percent to 2.16 billion francs,
with most of that going to  wealth-management  staff. The
reduction in variable pay was greater than at any other
competitor, the bank said at the time.  UBS Shares  UBS shares fell 5 percent in Swiss trading on Oct. 26 after
the bank reported a 406 million-franc third-quarter pretax loss
at the securities unit, even as wealth-management businesses
attracted the first net new client investments since 2008. The
stock advanced 0.9 percent by 2:07 p.m. today, bringing the gain
this year to 6.2 percent, compared with a 4 percent decline in
Bloomberg’s European banks index.  “Going forward Gruebel will be measured on what happens at
the investment bank,” said JPMorgan’s Abouhossein, who is based
in  London . “The private bank has had a continuous improving
trend, whereas the investment bank has not.”  Gruebel Hires  Gruebel, who joined UBS out of retirement in February 2009,
appointed Carsten Kengeter, 43, as sole head of the investment
bank in September. The former co-head, Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell,
49, took on a new role this month as co-CEO of Asia Pacific. In
January, the bank named Rajeev Misra, 48, and Dimitri Psyllidis,
44, formerly with Deutsche Bank and Merrill Lynch & Co.
respectively, as co-heads of the fixed-income unit, and in May
UBS appointed Yassine Bouhara, formerly with Deutsche Bank, and
Francois Gouws, 45, to head the global equities business.  Gruebel hired more than 850 people to expand trading units
and promised to pay bankers “market rates” after bonus cuts in
2008 led to defections. This produced some dividends: UBS beat
its target in debt trading in the first three months and
surpassed Goldman Sachs in revenue from  stock trading  in the
second quarter.  “Unfortunately the recovery fizzled away a little bit,”
said Mediobanca’s Wheeler, who cut his rating on UBS after
third-quarter results to “neutral” from “outperform.”  Gruebel knows about trading and risk-taking first hand. His
37-year career at Credit Suisse, which he headed before retiring
in 2007, started at the bank’s Eurobond trading desk in 1970. By
1991 he had become head of global trading. Under his leadership,
the Zurich-based bank started cutting its holdings of U.S.
subprime mortgage bonds in 2006, when competitors including UBS
were still buying them.  Perils of Risk  UBS’s writedowns and losses from the credit crisis --second
only to the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc among European lenders --
forced it to tap investors and the Swiss government for capital.
Some of those losses were the result of a strategy pursued by
the investment bank under the leadership of Huw Jenkins to boost
debt-trading revenue after part of that business was spun off to
the Dillon Read Capital Management LLC hedge fund in 2005.  “We saw what happened five years ago when UBS decided to
catch up to rivals and take more risks, and that wasn’t a good
idea,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets who has a “buy” rating on UBS.  While the bank doesn’t need to build up big positions
again, UBS could benefit from more inventory to help its market-
making, he said. The bank’s trading assets amounted to 246
billion francs in the third quarter, less than half of the 654
billion francs it had at the end of 2005.  Swiss Rules  Gruebel told investors a year ago that he wants the
investment bank to focus mainly on clients. To keep risks under
control he started weekly calls with management of the
securities unit and top risk officers. Kengeter is having risk
calls and talking to traders every day, something that didn’t
happen during the past four to five years before he joined,
Cryan said in July.  A Swiss government-appointed committee, which examined how
to limit risks from the country’s biggest banks, ruled out
banning proprietary trading as the U.S. did in the Dodd-Frank
Act. The Swiss regulator instead is raising  capital requirements 
on trading assets from the beginning of next year.  UBS could benefit from increasing risk-taking in foreign
exchange, equity derivatives and rates products, said
Abouhossein, who has an “overweight” rating on the shares.  The bank’s revenue from equity derivatives fell 46 percent
in the third quarter from the second, to 268 million francs,
posting a bigger decline than cash equities and prime services.
Revenue from the firm’s macro business, which includes foreign-
exchange and rates trading, slumped 56 percent to 291 million
francs in the same period, while credit trading, at 587 million
francs, rose 27 percent.  ‘Moving Sideways’  Cryan said in an interview on Oct. 26 that UBS benefited
from a higher frequency of trading in credit in the quarter -- a
strategy Kengeter and Wilmot-Sitwell outlined a year ago.
Instead of accumulating assets, the bank would trade more
frequently, making higher returns without expanding its balance
sheet, they said.  “They’ve been trading a lot,” Cryan said. “In credit
they traded, and it moved up and down enough that they actually
made very good revenue. In equities they traded, but it was
moving sideways, and volatility wasn’t changing.”  The bank couldn’t benefit from the volatility in foreign-
exchange markets, the business Cryan called “the big
disappointment” in the third quarter, because it doesn’t do any
proprietary trading there, he said.  Deutsche Bank  UBS was ranked the second-biggest currency trader in the
foreign-exchange market in 2009 behind Deutsche Bank, according
to a survey by Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc. Deutsche
Bank said foreign-exchange trading helped to boost the bank’s
fixed-income revenue in the third quarter.  Deutsche Bank is probably benefiting from higher risk-
taking in the business, while UBS lost market share during the
crisis, Wheeler said. UBS’s share in the  currency market  shrank
to 11.3 percent last year from 15.8 percent in 2007, according
to the Euromoney survey.  “It’s going to be very difficult to wrestle market share
from Deutsche Bank,” Wheeler said.  UBS may also try to build up commodities trading, which
“has been one of the most enormous revenue machines” for U.S.
banks, said Wheeler. UBS sold all of its commodities businesses
during the credit crisis, except index and exchange-traded
commodities and precious metals.  The bank in January hired  Neal Shear , 56, a former Morgan
Stanley executive who specialized in commodities for at least 18
years of his career there, to head its global securities
business. In August, UBS appointed Jean Bourlot, a former head
of agriculture trading at Morgan Stanley, as head of commodities
in London.  As the bank tries to boost its trading revenue, the main
target for UBS is not to let risks spiral out of control, said
Hoffmann-Becking of Sanford C. Bernstein. “For UBS, the focus
is on wealth management, and that means the first priority is
nothing must ever blow up again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  