-- Vettel Wins Formula 1 Title as Ferrari Tracks the Wrong Red Bull
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-11-15T10:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/vettel-becomes-youngest-formula-one-champion-with-victory-in-abu-dhabi.html
Red Bull’s  Sebastian Vettel  is the
youngest Formula One champion after profiting from what Ferrari
drivers called an error by their team.  Vettel, 23, won the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix
yesterday to top the standings by rising above Ferrari’s
 Fernando Alonso  and Red Bull teammate  Mark Webber , who finished
seventh and eighth in the race.  Alonso, who began yesterday with an eight-point lead over
Webber, tracked his closest rival by stopping for new tires
early on. Both drivers then got stuck behind other cars,
allowing Vettel to beat  Lewis Hamilton ’s 2008 mark as the
youngest champion by six months.  Ferrari, the oldest team, has won 15 drivers’ titles since
1950. It’s the first time a Red Bull driver won since energy
drink maker Red Bull GmbH bought Ford Motor Co.’s Jaguar Racing
team in 2004. Vettel finishes the season four points ahead of
Alonso, with Webber 10 points further back in third.  “Thank you boys, unbelievable,” Vettel told his Red Bull
team over a radio in his car, as he choked back tears. Later, he
said his car handled like a “dream.”  Vettel, who began in pole position, dominated the 55-lap
race that began in daylight and ended under floodlights at the
Yas Marina circuit. McLaren’s Hamilton and  Jenson Button , last
year’s champion, were second and third.  Alonso had needed a top-four finish to clinch the
championship, if Germany’s Vettel was the race-winner, and after
15 laps was on track in fourth place. On lap 16, the Spaniard
stopped for new tires, four laps after Webber made a pit stop
because of a tire problem.  ‘Cover for Webber’  “We tried to cover for Webber,” Alonso, a two-time
champion, told Spain’s La Sexta television station, adding that,
on retrospect, Ferrari made a mistake.  The 29-year-old twice went off the track onto a tarmac run-
off zone as he unsuccessfully tried to pass Renault’s  Vitaly Petrov  over the next 39 laps.  “You feel sadness,” Alonso said. “Everything turned out
a bit the wrong way around.”  Alonso’s teammate  Felipe Massa  said Ferrari stopped “at
the wrong moment,” according to the Ansa news wire. “I can’t
say the strategy was impeccable.”  ‘Ferrari Present’  Ferrari manager Stefano Domenicali said in a statement the
Italian team had focused too much on Webber, had been unduly
concerned about tire wear and didn’t consider the difficulty of
overtaking on the racetrack.  “Now, there is no point in discussing the whys and
wherefores of how we arrived at this choice,” Domenicali said.
“Win or lose, we do everything as a team.”  Italian newspapers homed in on the mistake. “Vettel’s
Title, A Present from Ferrari,” Corriere della Serra said in a
headline on its website. Gazzetta dello Sport said the team had
made a “terrible error.”  Petrov told La Sexta he was “just doing his job” in
blocking Alonso, who gestured in frustration at the Russian as
the race ended.  Webber was also ruing what might have been.  “It didn’t turn out and it’s a shame,” Webber said,
according to Agence France-Presse. “There are quite a few
emotions, of course, when you come so close to the top and you
just miss out. I tried my absolute hardest.”  Schumacher Crash  At the start,  Michael Schumacher  spun out of control on lap
one and Force India’s Vitantonio Liuzzi ploughed into his
Mercedes, just missing the seven-time champion’s head. Both
drivers climbed out of their cars unaided.  Schumacher, 41, ends his comeback year in ninth place in
the standings, 70 points behind seventh-placed Mercedes teammate
 Nico Rosberg .  The collision brought out the safety car for five laps as
stewards scrambled to clear up the debris. Several drivers
including Petrov used the delay to dart into the pit lane for a
tire change.  The Red Bull team had clinched the constructors’
championship at last week’s Brazilian Grand Prix. The drink
maker spent $675 million on bankrolling the team since 2005,
according to filings by the team’s parent company.  In 2008, Vettel at age 21 became the youngest Formula One
race winner when he won the Italian Grand Prix with Red Bull’s
second team, Toro Rosso.  Red Bull engineers dressed in the team’s dark blue overalls
in the team garage danced to a pop song to celebrate the success
at the end of the eight-month campaign.  “I’m speechless,” Vettel said at a televised news
conference. “It’s been an incredibly tough season.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  