-- Yuan Bets Reined In After `Masterful Job' at G-20: China Credit
-- B y   J a m e s   R e g a n
-- 2010-11-15T06:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-14/yuan-appreciation-bets-eased-after-masterful-job-at-g-20-china-credit.html
Investors are paring bets on yuan
gains after China deflected U.S. criticism of its currency
policy at a Group of 20 summit, saying money-printing by the
Federal Reserve may destabilize the global financial system.  One-month non-deliverable forwards at the end of last week
indicated depreciation versus the dollar for the first time
since Sept. 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
0.43 percent advance projected by three-month contracts was the
least since Sept. 20. The contracts had been pricing in gains of
0.4 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively, a week earlier.  While U.S. President  Barack Obama  said Nov. 12 that the
yuan was “undervalued” and he expects “progress on this
issue” after talks with President  Hu Jintao , Brazil and Germany
criticized this month’s decision by the Fed to pump $600 billion
into the financial system. China “doesn’t support” the
monetary easing that causes “imported” inflation in developing
countries, Commerce Minister Chen Deming told a Nov. 13 forum in
Macau.  “The Chinese have done a masterful job of playing the
cards on this one,” said New York-based  Michael Novogratz ,
principal and director of  Fortress Investment Group LLC , which
oversees $44 billion of assets. “They’ve turned a problem of
them having a pegged currency into our problem.”  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Societe Generale
SA all said they maintained their yuan forecasts for the end of
this year and next following the G-20 talks, which took place
Nov. 11-12 in Seoul.  ‘Behind Closed Doors’  “Beijing never wanted to use the G-20 as a forum for the
exchange rate to be decided as it doesn’t want the world to have
a one-way bet on the Chinese currency,” said  Claudio Piron ,
head of emerging Asia foreign exchange and fixed-income strategy
at Bank of America in Singapore. “China wants to decide the
currency rate behind closed doors, something more discreet.”  Piron predicts the yuan will strengthen 0.7 percent to 6.6
per dollar by the end of next month and a further 3.1 percent to
6.4 in 2011. Citigroup forecast an end-2010 exchange rate of
about 6.55, and 6.25 a year later.  Cliff Tan , head of emerging-market currency research at
Societe Generale in Hong Kong, said the 7 percent annualized
rate of appreciation recorded since China ended a two-year peg
to the dollar on June 19 is “a pace that both China and the U.S.
can live with.”  The yuan has strengthened 2.7 percent to 6.6441 per dollar
in Shanghai since the peg was scrapped and non-deliverable
forwards show traders expect a 2.8 percent advance to 6.4657 in
the coming 12 months. The one-month contract was at 6.6375 at
the end of last week and the spot rate at 6.6370.  Brazil’s real rose 2.9 percent since June 19, India’s rupee
climbed 1.3 percent and the Russian ruble declined 0.3 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Interest Rates  The yuan was one of only two gainers last week among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg and reached a
17-year high of 6.6173 per dollar on Nov. 11, when government
data showed inflation accelerated to a two-year high of 4.4
percent in October. China’s 12-month swap rate reached the
highest level since October 2008 as investors stepped up bets
the central bank will add to last month’s increase in borrowing
costs.  The People’s Bank of China boosted its benchmark one-year
lending rate on Oct. 19 by a quarter of a percentage point to
5.56 percent, the first increase since 2007. The median 
forecast for end-2011 was 6.31 percent, up from 6.06 percent
when Bloomberg last conducted a survey on Oct. 21. Societe
Generale, France’s second-largest bank, predicts there will be a
percentage point of increases, starting next month.  Swaps, Bonds  China’s 12-month interest-rate  swap , the fixed cost needed
to receive the floating seven-day repurchase  rate , rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, today to a two-year high
of 2.63 percent. The yield on the 3.29 percent bond due
September 2020 was little changed at 3.98 percent, according to
China Interbank Bond Market. The rate on similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries climbed three basis points to 2.82 percent.  The  yield premium  offered by 10-year government debt in
China over the U.S. reached 133 basis points on Nov. 11, the
most it’s been in Bloomberg data going back to June 2005.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  of shares on Nov. 12 plunged
5.2 percent, the biggest decline since August 2009, on concern
more expensive credit will cool growth in the world’s fastest-
growing economy. The gauge advanced 0.1 percent today after HSBC
said the plunge offers investors a buying opportunity and
predicted gains of as much as 15 percent by June.  Strong Momentum  “The medium-term outlook is good,” said  Arjuna Mahendran ,
the head of investment strategy for Asia in Singapore at HSBC
Private Bank, a unit of Europe’s largest lender overseeing $460
billion globally. “The momentum of the economy is strong. The
question is whether it’s too strong.”  The central bank will “flexibly use our traditional
monetary-policy tools,” People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor
 Hu Xiaolian  said Nov. 11 in Beijing. Policy makers raised banks’
reserve-requirement ratios last week by as much as a percentage
point, seeking to restrain credit growth to 7.5 trillion yuan
($1.1 trillion) this year.  New lending  totaled 6.88 trillion
yuan in the 10 months through October.  Economic growth in China has averaged 10 percent in the
past five years, compared with rates of 4.2 percent in Brazil,
3.9 percent in Russia and 8.5 percent in India. Gross domestic
product increased 9.6 percent from a year earlier in the third
quarter, the smallest gain in a year, official figures show.  Credit-Default Swaps  The annual cost of insuring China’s foreign-currency debt
for five years rose seven basis points last week to 61, on a par
with the U.K., credit-default swaps show. Moody’s Investors
Service on Nov. 11 upgraded China’s foreign- and local debt
ratings to Aa3, the fourth-highest ranking. The U.K. has a Aaa
rating, the highest grade.  Five-year credit-default swap contracts for top-rated yuan-
denominated bonds were little changed last week at 92 basis
points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  China’s efforts to tackle asset bubbles and avert the
spread of bad loans has meant the “likely containment and
effective management” of losses from record lending last year
to counter the financial crisis, Moody’s said in a statement.
That combined with China’s “resilient” economic growth were
reasons for the upgrade, the ratings company said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 