-- Russia Proposes Tripling Beer Tax, Carlsberg Says
-- Bo Nielsen
-- 2009-10-02T14:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-10-02/russia-proposes-tripling-beer-tax-carlsberg-says-update2-.html

          
          
             Carlsberg A/S, (CARLB)   Russia ’s biggest
brewer, said the country’s government proposed tripling the
excise duty on beer in 2010, sending its  shares  tumbling.  
 A draft bill, which would increase beer excise by a further
11 percent in 2011 and 20 percent in 2012, must be discussed in
the State Duma and then the Council of Federation before it can
be referred to President  Dmitry Medvedev  for “final approval and
signing,” the Copenhagen-based brewer said today in a statement.
A press official at the Russian government declined to comment.  
 “It’s not good news for the total beer market in Russia
and as such not good news for Carlsberg,” Chief Executive
Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussensaid today by phone. “But this
is still a long process. It’s not a given that the proposal will
pass looking like this. We’ll still make our voice heard.”  
 Carlsberg, whose Russian brands include Baltika, slid as
much as 8 percent in Copenhagen trading, reaching a two-month
low. Russia is raising taxes on beer and clamping down on its
availability to curb what Medvedev has called the country’s
“colossal” alcohol consumption.  
 “This is negative for Carlsberg,” Jyske Bank A/S analyst
Jens H. Thomsen said by phone. “It could hurt the size of the
Russian beer market and Carlsberg’s earnings on that market. It
will be hard to pass the added costs on to the consumers.”  
 ‘Negative Impact’  
 Carlsberg  shares  were down 29 kroner, or 8 percent, to 333
kroner at 4:56 p.m. in Copenhagen, the day’s lowest price. That
was the steepest decline in  Denmark ’s  benchmark stock index .  
 Deutsche Bank AG analysts recommended selling the stock,
saying investors are “overly sanguine” about Russia’s anti-
alcohol campaign. Carlsberg gets a greater proportion of its
profit from Russia than any other international brewer.  
 “Russia seems to be gearing up for a battle against
alcohol, a major cause of relatively low-life expectancy and a
declining population,” Deutsche Bank analysts wrote as they cut
Carlsberg to “sell” from a “hold” rating in a note dated
yesterday. “In the worst case, there could be a significant
decline in beer volumes in the next few years, and a severe
reduction in the industry’s ability to take price increases.”  
 Carlsberg said today it will “continue to argue for a more
balanced increase of excise duty” and “encourage the involved
politicians in Russia to pay attention to the arguments.”  
 “If the duty rise is dramatic, it will have a negative
impact on the market and on Carlsberg,” said Anton Artemiev,
chief executive officer of the brewer’s Baltika unit. “I
wouldn’t speculate on the impact, but it’s negative.”  
 Konstantin Tarasov, head of the Duma’s press service,
wasn’t able to comment on the matter when called by Bloomberg.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Cleary in  London  at 
 acleary7@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        