-- EQT Gets Securitas Direct, Lifts Bid to $1.59 Billion
-- Niklas Magnusson
-- 2008-02-05T16:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-02-05/eqt-gets-securitas-direct-lifts-bid-to-1-59-billion-update4-.html

          
          
             EQT Partners AB, the buyout firm
partly owned by  Sweden 's Wallenberg family, agreed to buy
Securitas Direct AB for 10.1 billion kronor ($1.59 billion)
after raising the bid to overcome shareholders' opposition.  
 Securitas Direct said today it recommends the 27.5 kronor-
a-share offer to its shareholders. The improved bid is 32
percent higher than Securitas Direct's  closing price  on Nov. 12,
the last trading day before the first offer announcement. Saeki
AB, Melker Schoerling AB, and  Investment AB Latour (LATOB) , which were
part of the original bid, will pull out of the transaction.  
 Securitas Direct  management  and shareholders including
Pennant Capital Management LLC rejected the first offer as too
low and said it conflicts with company strategy. Pennant, a
hedge fund based in Chatham, New Jersey, said today the new
offer still fails to reflect Securitas Direct's value, and that
it would maintain its resistance to the takeover bid.  
 ``We continue to view the prospects of the business
positively, but we do see some challenges ahead that we are
prepared to tackle, as the sole owner, together with the company
management,'' Harry Klagsbrun, a senior partner at EQT, said in
a statement published today.  
 Securitas Direct gained 0.6 percent, or 2.4 percent, to 26
kronor. The stock has gained 21 percent in a year. Securitas
Direct was spun off from Securitas AB, the world's largest
security company, in 2006.  
 Lower Valuation  
 A takeover is subject to backing from 90 percent of
Securitas Direct shareholders. EQT is ``hopeful'' to reach that
threshold and would abandon the deal should it get less,
Klagsbrun said at a meeting with journalists in Stockholm today.
EQT's bidding partners said they will sell their shares and use
the proceeds for other investment opportunities.  
 Klagsbrun said he's confident Securitas Direct  shareholders 
including Pennant will ``seriously consider'' selling their
shares given the raised bid. The fact that EQT's partners in the
original offer will sell should also lend some support, he said.  
 ``We believe the company is worth well north of 40 kronor
and plan to vote against the transaction,'' Alan Fournier, a
managing member at Pennant, said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. ``We are surprised that the insiders have
decided to sell their position at this price but understand that
they have investment liquidity considerations.''  
 Pennant Resists  
 Pennant, which owned 6.5 percent of Securitas Direct in
November, has ``significantly increased'' its stake in the
company, Fournier said today, declining to comment on how big
Pennant's stake is now. Pennant in November joined other
shareholders including U.S. hedge fund Royal Capital Management
in expressing skepticism over the initial takeover offer.  
 ``Valuations of companies around the world are
significantly lower now,'' Ulrik Svensson, chief executive
officer of Melker Schoerling AB, said at the  Stockholm  meeting.
``We have looked at our total portfolio and concluded that we
have alternative investment opportunities.''  
 Securitas Direct is being advised by JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and SEB Enskilda.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net 
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at   anoel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        