-- Russia, Greece, Bulgaria Sign Oil Pipeline Agreement
-- Harry Papachristou
-- 2007-03-15T14:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-15/russia-greece-bulgaria-sign-oil-pipeline-agreement-update2-.html

          
          
             Russia ,  Bulgaria  and  Greece  agreed
to build a pipeline that bypasses Turkey's congested Bosporus
strait, saving the oil industry as much as $1 billion a year in
shipping costs.  
 Russian companies, including state-run OAO Gazprom Neft,
will have a controlling stake in the 285-kilometer (177-mile)
pipeline that will run from the Bulgarian  Black Sea  port of
Bourgas to the Greek port of Alexandroupolis on the Aegean Sea,
according to the accord signed today in  Athens  by officials of
the three countries.  
 ``This pipeline allows us to consider how to increase the
supply of oil from the  Caspian Sea , which is important for
groups such as the American and Kazakh companies who work
there,'' Russian President  Vladimir Putin  told reporters in
Athens. ``It will not supplant other pipelines in the region;
it will just provide new quantities of oil from Russia.''  
 The agreement was signed after 14 years of delays. Companies
will now begin commercial talks to set up an operating company
for the near 1 billion-euro project, aiming to start construction
in 2008 and operation by 2011. The pipeline's capacity is
estimated at 35 million tons of crude oil a year initially, which
can be increased to 50 million tons later.  
 ``The three governments and participating companies will
continue to work at the same fast pace of the last six months
to construct the pipeline and have it operating as soon as
possible,'' Greek Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis said.  
 Narrow Straits  
 Rising trade in oil and restrictions on tanker traffic
have clogged the Bosporus, a narrow seaway in  Turkey  that links
the Black Sea with the Mediterranean and flows through
Istanbul, the country's biggest city.  
 A total 140 million tons of oil products were shipped through
the Bosporus last year. Turkey has barred tankers longer than 200
meters from sailing through the strait at night and during fog.
Fewer daylight hours in winter limit the number of ships that can
use the waterways, and bad weather can clog them further.  
 ``The pipeline wouldn't be built if congestion on the
Bosporus had not become unbearable,''  said Christos Dimas, the
general manager of Elpe-Thraki, a Greek joint venture that will
own 24.5 percent of the planned pipeline company, in a
telephone interview yesterday.  
 Delays of up to a month lost the oil industry as much as
$1 billion when congestion peaked in 2004, Dimas said.  
 Pipeline Priority  
 The European Commission, the European Union's executive
arm, welcomed the agreement as a means to reduce the
``increasing pressure of maritime oil transport'' through the
Bosporus and Dardanelle straits.  
 ``Given the increasing density of maritime traffic in the
enclosed Black Sea and additional quantities of oil exported
from the region, it is of utmost importance to give a higher
priority to the alternative of transporting oil by pipelines,''
EU Energy Commissioner  Andris Piebalgs  said in a statement in
Brussels today.  
 Russia's OAO Gazprom Neft formed a group with the state-
run oil company, OAO Rosneft, and the state pipeline operator,
OAO Transneft, to hold Russia's 51 percent stake in the
International Project Co., the planned owner of the pipeline.  
 Elpe-Thraki group comprises state-controlled  Hellenic
Petroleum SA (ELPE) , the country's biggest refiner; the Copelouzos
Group; and the Latsis Group.  
 Bulgaria's 24.5 percent stake in the joint company will be
held by Bourgas-Alexandroupolis Oil Pipeline Project Co.
Bulgaria, through which 155 kilometers of the pipeline pass,
said it may sell its stake in the project. Russia has suggested
 Kazakhstan , the second-largest oil producer in the former
 Soviet Union  after Russia, could join.  
 Energy Security  
 The pipeline will enhance  energy security  since a 650,000-
cubic-meter oil-storage facility at Alexandroupolis will enable
management ``of any possible complications in the global
market,'' Putin said. ``We believe safe access to energy is a
guarantee for growth.''  
 Talks on the project started in 1993. On Feb. 1, Putin
urged Bulgaria and Greece to speed up negotiation or lose their
chance to transport Russian crude. His warning came a day after
Bulgaria, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania
signed an agreement to build an alternative pipeline.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Papachristou in Athens at 
 hpapachristo@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan on   jcarrigan@bloomberg.net ;
Riad Hamade at   rhamade@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        