-- Qatar's Central Bank Cuts Overnight Deposit Rate, First Move in Two Years
-- Camilla Hall
-- 2010-08-11T10:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-11/qatar-central-bank-cuts-overnight-deposit-rate-half-point-to-1-5-percent.html

          
          
             Qatar’s central bank cut its
overnight deposit rate by half a percentage point to 1.5
percent, its first such move in two years, after the U.S.
repeated its pledge to keep rates low for an extended period.  
 All other key rates remained unchanged, said a central bank
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of bank
regulations. Qatar’s overnight deposit rate was last cut by 25
basis points to 2 percent on May 1, 2008. The lending rate,
which is the key measure used by the central bank to convey
signals to the market, was held at 5.5 percent.  
 “It will help with bank recapitalization as banks will now
have a larger spread between benchmark loans and deposits,”
 Mark McFarland , an economist at Dubai-based  Emirates NBD , said.
“The central bank is signaling to the market that deposit rates
should stay low as is now being signaled by the U.S. Fed.”  
 The Federal Reserve yesterday left the overnight interbank
lending rate target in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where
it’s been since December 2008, and repeated a pledge to keep
rates low “for an extended period.” In common with most Gulf
states which link their currencies to the dollar, Qatar often
takes its cue from the U.S. when setting rates.  
 Qatar experienced three years of inflation above 10
percent, peaking at 15 percent in 2008.  Consumer prices  declined
by 2.8 percent in June, following a drop of 3.6 percent in May.
The Qatari government has predicted inflation will accelerate to
1 percent this year from deflation of 5.5 percent last year.  
 Rapid growth  
 The economy grew at almost 15 percent a year between 2006
and 2008, before slowing to 9 percent last year. Growth is
forecast at 18 percent this year, driven by high oil and gas
prices and government spending. Qatar, the world’s biggest
producer of liquefied natural gas, is spending $100 billion on
projects to improve its infrastructure and raise its annual LNG
export capacity to 77 million tons.  
 Rapid growth has “the potential of overheating the economy
unless the government continues to prioritize and sequence its
spending toward infrastructure spending,” the Washington-based
 International Monetary Fund  said in a February report. Qatar has
sold a total of 12 billion riyals ($3.3 billion) of bonds and
Islamic debt this year to reduce liquidity among lenders.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
 Camilla Hall  in Abu Dhabi at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        