-- OTP Third-Quarter Profit Declines Less Than Expected on Bad Loan Slowdown
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-11-19T09:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-11/hungary-s-otp-bank-second-quarter-net-income-falls-35-misses-estimates.html
Net income at  OTP Bank Nyrt. ,
Hungary’s largest lender, declined less than expected in the
third quarter as the rise in provisions for bad loans slowed.  Net income  fell to 30.9 billion forint ($154 million) from
45.9 billion forint a year earlier, the bank said in a statement
on the  website  of the Budapest Stock Exchange today. That beat
the 22.1 billion-forint mean estimate of 12 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. Loan-loss provisions fell 45 percent from the
previous quarter to 52.7 billion forint.  “I rule out almost entirely a scenario whereby provisions
would expand as they did in the second quarter,” Deputy Chief
Executive  Laszlo Bencsik  said at a press conference in Budapest
today.  OTP, which has subsidiaries in nine countries in central
and eastern Europe, is counting on a recovery in loan demand to
offset the negative impact of non-performing loans. The
Budapest-based lender expects a “more dynamic” lending growth
in Hungary next year and sees credit expansion at all units
going forward, Bencsik said. The consolidated loan stock grew 1
percent in the third quarter, the first expansion since the
financial crisis.  In the third quarter, the rise in loans overdue 90 days or
more “moderated a lot, putting downward pressure or risk
costs,” the bank said.  Overdue Loans  Overdue loans rose a quarterly 0.8 percent in the July-
September period to 13.2 percent of all credit, slowing from a
1.7 percent rise in the previous quarter.  “The economic trend is positive in all the countries we’re
present in, except Romania, and this will have an impact on
lending and portfolio deterioration,” Bencsik said.  Net profit adjusted for the payment of extra taxes in
Hungary would be 45.4 billion forint in the period, one of the
best quarterly results since the beginning of the financial
crisis, according to the statement. The bank expects its extra
tax payment to remain unchanged in 2011, shaving off 29 billion
from OTP’s net income, Bencsik said.  Net-interest income, the difference between what the bank
pays on deposits and charges on loans, rose an annual 9 percent
to 150.3 billion forint in the period.  OTP  shares  have dropped 6.8 percent this month, compared
with a 2.9 percent decline in the benchmark  BUX index .  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Marta Waldoch  at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net 
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  