-- Wells Fargo Agrees to $2 Billion in Loan Modifications
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-20T20:27:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-11/wells-fargo-should-pay-203-million-in-overdraft-fees-lawsuit-judge-rules.html
Wells Fargo & Co.  agreed to provide
loan modifications worth more than $2 billion to California
homeowners who have “pick-a-pay” loans, California Attorney
General  Jerry Brown  said.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, also will pay
$32 million to borrowers whose homes were lost in foreclosure,
Brown said today in a  statement .  Pick-a-pay, or pay option adjustable-rate mortgage loans,
allowed borrowers to make payments at various levels, according
to Brown. The highest level fully covered the monthly interest
and principal due, while another level covered interest only. At
the minimum level, payments were insufficient to cover the
monthly interest owed, with unpaid interest added to the loan
balance.  “Customers were offered adjustable-rate loans with
payments that mushroomed to amounts that ultimately thousands of
borrowers could not afford,” Brown said in the statement.
“Recognizing the harm caused by these loans,  Wells Fargo 
accepted responsibility and entered into this settlement with my
office.”  The mortgages at issue stem from the marketing and
origination practices at World Savings Bank, a unit of Golden
West Financial Corp. that was acquired by  Wachovia Corp.  before
its 2008 merger with Wells Fargo, the bank said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Prevent Foreclosures’  “The majority of Wachovia’s Pick-a-Payment customers
reside in California,”  Mike Heid , co-president of Wells Fargo
Home Mortgage, said in an e-mailed statement. “We’re pleased
that going forward the attorney general’s office will assist
with outreach, so that we can continue to work with as many
customers as possible on the options available to them to
prevent foreclosures.”  The bank, based in San Francisco, said in its statement
that the amount of the agreement for homeowners whose homes were
foreclosed was $33 million.  The $2 billion is total relief expected to be provided to
California homeowners, which can include some combination of
interest rate reduction, term extension, forgiveness on tax and
insurance advances, as well as principal forgiveness, Teri
Schrettenbrunner, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said in a phone
interview.  From Jan 2009 to last November, Wells Fargo forgave
$2.9 billion in principle on home loans in California, according
to the bank’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 