-- Fed to keep hawkish tone, hold rates steady
-- By  Alister Bull
-- Sun Oct 22, 2006 12:14pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/10/22/businesspro-economy-fed-dc-idUSN2021893320061022

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The central bank is expected to hold 
interest rates steady for the third straight month when it 
meets on Tuesday and Wednesday and repeat warnings on 
inflation, even though economists see little chance it will 
hike again. 

  The Federal Reserve will probably make only minor changes 
to the statement accompanying its decision to maintain rates at 
5.25 percent, retaining a tightening bias to keep inflation 
expectations at bay while slower growth saps price pressures.  "The Fed wants to talk like a hawk and walk like a dove," 
said Josh Stiles, senior strategist at IDEA in New York.  Policy-makers say they think price pressures will moderate 
as slower growth creates a bit more slack in the economy.  On the other hand, recent data have not given them much 
incentive to change their anti-inflation rhetoric, even if some 
of them privately don't see the risks to inflation as high.  September's core consumer price index, which strips out 
energy and food prices, rose 0.2 percent from August, soothing 
fears it might have been higher. But it is still running near 
to 3 percent on a yearly basis, well above the 1 percent to 2 
percent comfort zone voiced by a number of Fed policymakers.  "The action paragraph in the statement will stay the same 
... maintaining the bias to tightening," said former Fed 
Governor Lyle Gramley.  He did not see this anxiety over prices translating into 
higher interest rates, at a time when the U.S. economy is 
coping with a cooling housing market.  "The Fed is going to be patient. ... It is a soft economy 
and one in which you certainly would not want to be aggressive 
in fighting inflation," he said.  The first reading of the performance of the U.S. economy in 
the third quarter is due Friday and is forecast by Wall Street 
analysts to show growth slowing to a 2.2 percent annual pace 
from 2.6 percent in the previous three months.  Weaker growth and falling energy prices ought curb core 
prices. However, the Fed will continue to keep warning of risks 
to this outlook to make sure that expectations for future 
inflation remain in check.  "Most policy-makers probably believe that they can sit on 
the sidelines for quite some time. But they have decided to 
emphasize concerns about inflation," said James Glassman, 
senior economist at JPMorgan Chase in New York.  This strategy has helped to temper bets in financial 
futures markets that the Fed will cut rates at the start of 
next year, although dealers polled by Reuters do still forecast 
a move to 5.0 percent on the federal funds rate target in 
second quarter of 2007.  At the same time, yields on 10-year U.S. Treasury notes 
have crept up somewhat since the last Fed meeting, on September 
20, tightening financing conditions a touch.  St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank President William Poole, who 
will vote in next week's meeting, told reporters in Memphis on 
Monday that higher bond yields could do part of the Fed's job 
for it in restraining inflation.  Another regional president, Jeffrey Lacker of the Richmond 
Fed Bank, dissented at the last two policy meetings in favor of 
another quarter-point hike to ensure inflation falls at a fast 
enough pace.  In a speech on October 11 he said central bankers would be 
"quite vigilant" on inflation, which some observers took to be 
a fractional softening in his concerns on prices, hinting he 
would fall back into line with his FOMC colleagues next week.  The last time a member of the FOMC dissented more than 
twice in succession was in 1998, when then Cleveland Fed Bank 
President Jerry Jordan dissented four straight times because he 
believed higher interest rates were warranted.