-- EU to urge China to open economy further
-- By  William Schomberg
-- Sun Oct 22, 2006 6:46am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/10/22/businesspro-trade-eu-china-dc-idUSL2274994620061022

 

 BRUSSELS  (Reuters) - The European Union will call on China 
this week to go further with opening its economy to foreign 
investment and addressing problems caused by its emergence as a 
trade superpower. 

  The EU's executive Commission will say in a policy paper on 
Tuesday the fast-growing EU-China economic relationship has 
been positive so far but Beijing needs to do more to assure 
Europeans it is not an economic threat, an EU official said.  "We need to address the protectionist voices in Europe," 
the official said.  "We need to send a message to our constituents that 
openness is good but also that our relationship must go both 
ways and is not just about trade deficits and delocalization."  EU governments and businesses are divided between fears of 
China's cheap exports and excitement about the huge potential 
of the country's internal market, as well as the 
competitiveness gains for European companies which manufacture 
in China.  "We want to defuse the perception that China is a threat," 
the official said, asking not to be named. "China is a huge 
opportunity but it has a role to play in changing perceptions."  The paper comes shortly before European trade chief Peter 
Mandelson visits China in November, ahead of the launch of 
negotiations in January for a new, wide-ranging partnership 
agreement which will include trade and investment issues.  The two sides agreed to launch the talks at a summit in 
September when the EU dismayed rights groups by agreeing to 
deal with business in a relatively independent manner amid 
Chinese warnings against linking trade to human rights.
  HUMAN RIGHTS  The trade policy paper will accompany a broader European 
Commission report on overall EU-China ties expected to note 
some progress by Beijing on rights while urging it to do more.  After a latest exchange on rights on Thursday, the EU noted 
China's commitment to ratify the U.N. Covenant on Civil and 
Political Rights and reform its criminal justice system.  But it expressed deep concern over continuing restrictions 
on freedom of expression and the jailing of rights activists, 
lawyers and journalists.  Trade ties have been tested recently by EU moves to slow 
some of China's exports and the EU is suing China at the World 
Trade Organization for what it says are unfair barriers in the 
auto sector.  Mandelson, an avowed free-trader, has called on China to 
meet its responsibilities as the third-biggest global trader. 
Its EU trade surplus soared past 100 billion euros ($126 
billion) in 2005 and is running about 25 percent higher in 
2006.  The pace of China's growth has left the EU's previous 2003 
report on bilateral ties looking outdated, EU officials say.  Tuesday's paper will spell out the bloc's main complaints, 
including limits on foreign ownership such as in the auto 
sector, counterfeiting, and barriers to China's public 
procurement market, the EU official said.  It will also urge China to move away more quickly from 
being an export-driven economy and instead spur domestic 
demand, a shift EU policy-makers hope will slow China's trade 
surpluses and ease strains on the global economy while creating 
opportunities for foreign investors.  The report will reiterate calls by the EU for China to 
allow faster appreciation of its yuan currency from levels 
widely seen as designed to enhance China's export power.  (Additional reporting by  David Brunnstrom )