-- Copenhagen Fools the Young Into Hoping for Jobs: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2009-12-08T02:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-07/copenhagen-fools-the-young-into-hoping-for-jobs-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             Youth is what the climate change
conference in Copenhagen is supposed to be all about.  
 The advertising campaign for the United Nations Climate
Change Conference on global warming that opens this week is even
called “Hopenhagen,” to suggest that young people need to push
their governments to save the Kyoto Treaty if they are going to
prevent environmental apocalypse.  
 One reason that Hopenhagen has caught on is that youth
fashion these days is as green as it gets. Copenhagen, thrift
and handbags made of recycled seatbelts all go together in the
under-30 mind. At Williams College in Massachusetts, some 50
students and faculty started a hunger strike to show their
support for a climate-change agreement. UCLA students who are
attending Copenhagen with their professor have called the event
a “rock concert for climate geeks.”  
 The missing part of that message is that environmental
accords like Kyoto can actually kill hope of a more mundane
kind, like the hope for a job. And that’s especially true when
it comes to the darlings of the UN campaign: the young.  
 The reason this is so predates plans for Copenhagen or even
the green movement. Employers tend to rehire or hire others
before the young, and lay off or fire young workers when job-
cutting time comes.  
 There’s also an issue of hope, to use the Copenhagen
lexicon. Employers doubtful of the economic future are reluctant
to make a commitment to someone who expects to enjoy long-term
employment at the workplace.  
 Cutting Mode  
 And what puts employers in lay-off mode? Recession for
certain, but also any factor that makes production more
expensive. Dozens of studies, for example, have demonstrated
that just one such cost increase, the raising of the minimum
wage, hurt hiring or employment of younger workers in the U.S.
And that’s true elsewhere.  
 In a multidecade survey of 19 countries, authors Juan F.
Jimeno and Diego Rodriguez Palenzuela found that minimum-wage
rules, along with high taxes, depress youth employment. High-tax
Denmark’s joblessness is well below that of the U.S., but
Denmark is also among the nations where youth unemployment
ranges higher than unemployment of other workers. You can
imagine that some Danes feel fairly hopeless about this.  
 In economic terms, a mandate such as Kyoto’s isn’t
different from a tax or a minimum wage. It hurts employment. The
current cap-and-trade legislation is so structured that the pain
comes not in the initial years, when the regime begins, but
later, when restrictions for firms are more formidable.  
 Prime Time  
 The real blows come by 2030 -- a period irrelevant for many
older workers, but a prime earning period in the future of
Copenhagen’s youthful attendees. Margo Thorning at the American
Center for Capital Formation, a Washington policy research
group, ran the numbers on the American Clean Energy and Security
Act of 2009, sponsored by Democratic congressmen Henry Waxman
and Edward Markey. She found that this legislation could kill as
many as 2.4 million U.S. jobs by 2030, just about when today’s
Copenhagen youth will be paying for their children’s college.  
 That includes some jobs in Massachusetts, home to Williams
College, and 220,000 to 300,000 in California, where UCLA is
located.  
 Countries such as Denmark are in many ways greener than the
U.S., and the presumption of American college students is that
that means such countries are inherently better. That confidence
might be shaken by news that in Denmark, the low unemployment
rate notwithstanding, the number of unemployed Danes who don’t
find work for a year or more has been around two in 10 in the
past decade, while in the U.S. the rate was about one in 10.  
 Unfair Trade  
 Defenders of cap-and-trade would argue that billions in
revenue the government receives under the law can make up to the
poor what they lose in jobs. But it’s hard to imagine the tax
break of $359 per household, the proposal in one bit of
legislation, compensating for a lost job.  
 It is possible that forgoing those jobs is a social choice
this country has made as a collective. When Americans elected
Barack Obama, not John McCain, they might have been saying: we
care less about improving the economy than we do about social or
lifestyle improvements. Economists track such collective choices
using something called the Environmental Kuznets Curve, which
suggests countries choose to be greener as they become
wealthier.  
 Conscious Choice  
 But the question this time is whether that choice is being
made consciously. One senses that being green to college or high
school students tends to mean buying that recyclable messenger
bag, not doing without the salary that enables you to buy the
bag. You can hardly fault them for being unaware of trade-offs,
bombarded as they are by teachers, their government and YouTube
with the message that the greening of America offers pure
advantage.  
 As Denmark’s own environmental skeptic, Bjorn Lomborg, has
argued, the point here isn’t to say that carbon emissions don’t
do damage. They do. The point is that Kyoto is, as Lomborg put
it, “an incredibly bad deal” when you compare the pluses and
minuses. The future can’t be all Hopenhagen. It has to be Hope-
for-Jobs as well.  
 (Amity Shlaes, senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Dec. 8 (Bloomberg) -- Anders Turesson, chief climate negotiator for the European Union, talks with Bloomberg's Ryan Chilcote about the prospect of an agreement at the international climate change negotiations in Copenhagen. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
