-- Minaret Threat Eclipsed by Swiss Intolerance: Celestine Bohlen
-- Celestine Bohlen
-- 2009-12-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-07/minaret-threat-eclipsed-by-swiss-intolerance-celestine-bohlen.html

          
          
             If it did nothing else (and it may
end up getting knocked down in a European Court of Human
Rights), Switzerland's vote to ban the building of minarets drew
attention to Europe's identity crisis. The Swiss -- like the
French, or the Germans, or the British for that matter -- are
clearly worried about the Muslims living among them.  
 Worry is one thing. It can be irrational, yet
understandable. When people stoke those worries and turn them
into fear, intolerance follows, and that is unacceptable.  
 The Swiss vote has succeeded in shifting focus away from
the social and economic problems of immigration, and toward
religion. Putting the full weight of Europe's cultural identity
crisis on a slender piece of traditional architecture was both
disingenuous and dangerous. Worse, it seems to be catching.  
 Previous debates about the role of Islam in Europe involved
issues other than religion. The 2004 French ban on head scarves
in schools was about the submission of women; the 2005
publication of Danish cartoons lampooning the Prophet Muhammad
was about free speech.  
 A minaret, by contrast, is no more and no less than a
symbol. Other religious symbols draw protest -- a nativity scene
in front of City Hall, say, or a cross on a mountaintop -- but
they, unlike the minaret, are not part of a house of worship.  
 Yet the minaret is being outlawed in the heart of Europe --
to scattered applause in neighboring countries.  
 Four Minarets  
 Somehow, an obscure referendum about Islamic architecture
in a country of 7.8 million with just four minarets and 400,000
Muslims struck a nerve across Europe. That's especially true in
France, where politicians had been trying to manage a debate
over "national identity," and keep religion out of it. Now the
cat is out of the bag.  
 "It is a completely irrational issue, because a minaret
can't harm anyone, but it's very rational politically, because
it sells well for a certain electorate," said Francois
Heisbourg, director of the Foundation of Strategic Studies, a
Paris-based research institute.  
 Suddenly, people are expressing views that they once would
have considered racist or intolerant. In a survey taken the day
after the Swiss vote by Paris-based polling agency Ifop, 41
percent of French people questioned said they opposed the
construction of mosques, up from 22 percent in 2001. On the
question of building minarets, 46 percent were opposed.  
 Zero-Sum Game  
 There are an estimated 20 million Muslims among the
European Union's 500 million people, some of them native (mainly
in the Balkans), many of them already second- or even third-
generation in France, the U.K., and Germany. Denmark, Sweden and
the Netherlands, among others, have accepted more recent
arrivals. Islam is now Europe's second-biggest religion.  
 One source of the fear of Muslims -- a theme that keeps
coming up in print and in conversation -- is Europeans' deep and
complicated resentment of an unfamiliar, historically hostile
religion that is perceived as a direct challenge to
Christianity, Europe's dominant faith.  
 In this view, disputed by church leaders, the contest
becomes a kind of atavistic zero-sum game. Why else would
leaders from Italy's xenophobic Northern League party propose to
put a crucifix on the Italian flag?  
 There are other explanations for the widespread unease
with Islam: its association with jihad and terrorism; the
demands by Muslims for special treatment, such as segregation by
gender at public swimming pools; persistent illegal practices
like polygamy; and a sense that some Muslims ignore, even
repudiate, values that are at the core of European civilization,
such as free speech and the separation of church and state.  
 Moderate Imams  
 None of these issues has anything to do with minarets,
which are generally built alongside Europe's large urban
mosques, where the imams are usually moderate establishment
figures. Those imams who preach jihad don't do it from minarets;
they are laying low in store-front mosques, often on the run
from the police.  
 There are reasons to be concerned about Europe's ability to
integrate its Muslim citizens. But the subject is too important
to be guided by religious stereotypes. The riots in France's
suburban ghettoes in 2005 were a testament to the failure of
social policies, not to a resurgent Islam.  
 Issues like minarets or the burqa -- the ominous-looking
head-to-toe garment, worn by a small number of Muslim women,
that is being targeted by French President Nicolas Sarkozy --
are beside the point. As an editorial in Le Monde said last
week, the burqa, however offensive it may be to a woman's
dignity, is hardly a threat to secularism, the keystone of the
French republic. According to a weirdly precise report by a
French domestic intelligence agency, it is worn today by exactly
367 French women.  
 Fear-Fueled Vote  
 It is worth noting that the Swiss referendum against
minarets was supported mostly by rural voters, whose fear of
Islamic aggression comes more from ignorance than experience:
it's a safe bet that many have never seen a minaret, except on
alarmist campaign posters where they are depicted as comic-book
missiles.  
 There is no excuse for stigmatizing any religion. That goes
against the very values of tolerance Europe claims to stand for.
It also marks a discouraging setback for the further integration
of Muslim citizens, which has to be the goal of every European
country. There is no other choice.  
 (Celestine Bohlen is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on "Send Comment" in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Celestine Bohlen in Paris at 
 cbohlen1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        