-- Defending Champion Juan Martin Del Potro Will Miss Tennis's U.S. Open
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-08-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-21/defending-champion-juan-martin-del-potro-to-miss-tennis-s-u-s-open.html

          
          
             Defending champion  Juan Martin del Potro  joined top-ranked  Serena Williams  and seven-time major
winner  Justine Henin  as no-shows at tennis’s U.S. Open because
of injuries.  
 “I feel extremely sad to announce that I will not be able
to defend my U.S. Open title,” del Potro, who was operated on
in May, said yesterday in a statement. “I have only started
practicing in the last two weeks and unfortunately I cannot
compete at the top level yet.”  
 The announcement comes a day after Williams pulled out of
the year’s final Grand Slam tournament with a foot injury that’s
bothered her since shortly after winning Wimbledon in July.  
 Del Potro, 21, underwent surgery May 4 for a wrist injury
that had prevented him from playing since January. The Argentine
right-hander had suffered with tendinitis in his right wrist as
early as last October, when he retired in the second round of
the Shanghai Masters.  
 Del Potro, ranked No. 9 on the ATP Tour, last year won his
first Grand Slam title by beating top-ranked  Roger Federer  in
the U.S. Open final.  
 He last played on the men’s tour during the Australian Open
in January, missing the French Open and Wimbledon after his
surgery.  
 Williams, 28, the winner of 13 Grand Slam singles
championships including three U.S. Open titles, was forced to
withdraw from tournaments in Istanbul, Cincinnati and Montreal
after cutting her right foot on a broken glass at a restaurant,
according to the WTA Tour website July 17.  
 Three days before Williams made her decision public, seven-
time major winner  Justine Henin , 28, said she was skipping the
rest of the season because of an elbow injury.  
 The U.S. Open begins Aug. 30 in New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        