-- Budget airline offers Paris-NY with French frills
-- By  Tim Hepher
-- Fri Dec 1, 2006 11:54am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/01/businesspro-airlines-lavion-dc-idUSL0146218520061201

 

 PARIS  (Reuters) - A new low-cost, high-frills French 
airline entered the cutthroat transatlantic market on Friday 
with an all-business class service aimed at cost-conscious 
"Paryorkers." 

  The made-up catchword, derived from Paris and New York, is 
the slogan for a daily round-trip service between the two 
cities to be operated by start-up airline L'Avion from December 
27.  The airline began taking reservations on Friday and changed 
its brand name from Elysair after market research found, to the 
airline's surprise, that Americans as well as French people 
warmed to the simple French word for "aeroplane."  "We chose the name for its 'French touch'. We will have 
French cuisine and wine too," said former AOM-Air Liberte chief 
Marc Rochet, chief executive of L'Avion's operating company.  For 1,600 euros ($2,118) roundtrip, travelers will be able 
to fly between Paris's second airport, Orly, and Newark, New 
Jersey, the second-largest intercontinental airport serving New 
York.  That compares with an Air France KLM business fare on 
L'Avion's December 27 inaugural day of about 2,700 euros, as 
quoted on the Franco-Dutch airline's Web site on Thursday. Four 
other traditional carriers also serve the Paris-New York route.  L'Avion is targeting business class passengers who are 
sensitive to price and willing to trade cost for the greater 
number of connections available on the main carriers, the 
airline said. Others will be full-paying economy travelers.  Rochet estimated the size of the market at about 300,000 
journeys a year, of which he aims to capture 28,000 in year 
one.  The operating company, whose name will remain Elysair for 
legal purposes, particularly wants to attract customers in the 
south of Paris -- a distant commute from the city's main 
airport Charles de Gaulle situated to the city's north.  L'Avion will offer six return flights a week using a single 
leased Boeing 757-200, which will be fitted out with 90 
business-class seats instead of the usual 200 all-class layout.
  BUDGET AIRLINE GROWTH  The airline said it had arrangements in place in the event 
of technical problems on its single plane and would contract 
out all the maintenance to a unit of Germany's Lufthansa.  L'Avion is not the first airline to marry lower-cost travel 
with premium-quality services, with Maxjet offering a similar 
deal between the United States and London. Two other start-ups 
are muscling into the London-New York route, Rochet said.  Pressured by the popularity of low-cost travel, classical 
airlines, many of them privatized, are starting up their own 
low-cost subsidiaries to try to stem the hemorrhage in traffic.  But Rochet said these airlines were preoccupied with 
low-cost rivals in the short- to medium-range market, leaving 
an opportunity to try something new on the Paris-New York 
route.  A previous French budget airline with premium services, 
Fairlines, went bust by competing with the major airlines on 
short European routes, for which flight frequency matters most 
to business clients, according to Elysair's Rochet.  Elysair remained tight-lipped about its backers except to 
say they include a holding company of the Rothschild banking 
group, Cie Financiere St Honore, which has a minority stake.  Elysair Chairman Christophe Bejach is also a member of the 
same holding company's executive board. Private investors put 
up a total of 25 million euros in cash to start up the airline, 
which aims to break even in 18 to 24 months.