-- GM to seek more cost cuts, including labor: report
-- 
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 8:40pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/01/businesspro-gm-wagoner-dc-idUSN3020259720061201

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) will 
press for further cost reductions through both an upcoming 
round of contract talks and consolidated product development 
efforts, the automaker's chief executive said in an interview 
published on Thursday. 

  In an interview published online by Business Week magazine, 
GM Chief Executive Rick Wagoner was quoted as saying that GM 
would have to make cuts in coming year on par with the $9 
billion it cut this year through a program of job cuts and 
plant closures.  "I don't think you can say the business is fixed, 
particularly in North America," Wagoner told the magazine. "We 
have a lot more work to do."  Business Week quoted Wagoner as saying he would seek cost 
reductions for GM in contract talks with the United Auto 
Workers union set to begin next year.  UAW President Ron Gettelfinger has said he intends to fight 
to keep costly health care benefits for active union members 
and retirees, one of the issues expected to feature prominently 
in the contract talks.  "I don't think the problem with health care was created 
over the past two years," Wagoner told Business Week. "We don't 
expect it to be fixed over two years."  The magazine also quoted GM Chief Financial Officer Fritz 
Henderson as saying that the company's cost-cutting efforts to 
date had taken it "a little more than halfway" toward Wagoner's 
target of cutting structural costs from 34 percent of revenue 
to 25 percent.  GM shares closed down less than 1 percent at $29.23 on the 
New York Stock Exchange.  The Business Week report came on the same day that 
billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, who had agitated for a 
faster turnaround at GM, announced he was selling more of his 
stake in the automaker.  Kerkorian's investment vehicle Tracinda Corp. said in a 
regulatory filing that it had sold another 14 million shares in  GM.  That sale, the second such private transaction left 
Kerkorian with a 28-million share stake in GM.  The Wall Street Journal, quoting an unnamed source, said 
Kerkorian had subsequently reduced his stake to zero in trading 
on Thursday.  Tracinda and GM both declined comment.