-- Factory activity posts surprise contraction
-- By David McMahon
-- Fri Dec 1, 2006 12:45pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/01/businesspro-usa-economy-dc-idUSN0131009120061201

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. manufacturing contracted in 
November for the first time in 3-1/2 years, while construction 
spending fell sharply in October, according to reports on 
Friday pointing to a slowdown in the U.S. economy. 

  U.S. and European stocks tumbled, benchmark bonds surged 
and the dollar slid after The Institute for Supply Management 
said its index of national factory activity unexpectedly 
dropped to 49.5 from 51.2 in October, below economists' median 
forecast for a slight rise to 51.5.  It was the first time the index had fallen below 50, which 
indicates shrinking activity in the sector, since April 2003. 
The Commerce Department reported U.S. construction spending 
declined 1 percent in October, more than expected and adding to 
a growing pile of evidence that the housing market is cooling.  Treasury bond prices rallied after the data's release, 
pushing benchmark yields to 10-month lows, while the dollar 
extended losses, hitting a fresh 14-year low against the pound 
and a 20-month low against the euro.  "The drop in the ISM index below 50 in November was highly 
encouraging for the bond market because it told us that in 
addition to housing, the manufacturing sector may also be 
faltering," said Anthony Chan, chief economist at JPMorgan 
Chase Bank in New York. "The path toward easier monetary policy 
may occur sooner rather than later if such trends persist."  A sharper slowdown in the economy could lead the Federal 
Reserve, which paused a 2-year long campaign of rate rises in 
August, to begin cutting benchmark short-term rates from the 
current level of 5.25 percent next year.  A dip below the critical 50 mark in the ISM has 
historically been a reliable predictor of Fed rate cuts, 
analysts say. The last four U.S. monetary easing cycles began 
on average three months after sub-50 readings on the ISM, noted 
Richard Franulovich, currency strategist for Westpac in New 
York.
  SOFT LANDING?  However, some economists cautioned against writing off the 
economy too soon after the surprisingly weak report.  "Our sense ... is that the weakness is concentrated in the 
housing- and auto-related sectors while most everything else 
still looks OK," said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS 
Greenwich Capital in Greenwich, Connecticut.  "We are simply not convinced that the economy is weak 
enough in a broad sense for the Fed to envision easing."  The ISM report also showed that new orders, a gauge of 
future growth, fell to 48.7 from 52.1 in October, while the 
employment index slipped to 49.2 from 50.8.  Prices paid, however, climbed to 53.5 in November, from 
47.0 in October, pointing to continued inflationary pressures 
in the manufacturing sector even as growth slows.  Norbert Ore, chair of the ISM survey committee in Atlanta, 
Georgia, said manufacturing activity appeared to have peaked 
and November's overall index was likely to be the first of 
several months under 50.  But Ore said he viewed the outlook as a "soft landing" for 
manufacturing, not a screeching halt to growth.  "I think it's way too soon to talk about a manufacturing 
recession, which would be six consecutive months below 50, 
unless the inventories are much worse than the data have shown 
them to be," he said.