-- Wall St. wants more info on Anheuser's InBev pact
-- By  Jessica Wohl
-- Fri Dec 1, 2006 3:47pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/01/businesspro-anheuserbusch-inbev-dc-idUSN0132602920061201

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Anheuser-Busch Cos. Inc.'s ( BUD.N ) pact 
to import InBev INTB.BR brands such as Stella Artois gives 
the U.S. brewer high-end beers it needs to compete, analysts 
agree, but Wall Street is unsure how much the deal may help 
Bud's profits. 

  Anheuser-Busch, maker of Bud Light, the top-selling brand 
in the United States, controls about half of the domestic beer 
market. But it has suffered as consumers with discriminating 
tastes look for more upscale offerings and imported light beers 
such as Heineken Premium Light and Corona Light.  Starting in February, Anheuser-Busch will get the exclusive 
rights to distribute InBev beers such as Stella Artois, Beck's, 
Bass Pale Ale and Hoegaarden in the United States. Previously, 
InBev's U.S. unit had handled the distribution.  Terms of the deal were not disclosed.  "The economics and duration of the deal are, and will 
likely remain, unavailable, and we find this concerning," Bear 
Stearns analyst Carlos Laboy, who has a "peer perform" rating 
on Anheuser, wrote in a note to clients.  Laboy also said that integrating InBev's brands into the 
Anheuser-Busch system will bring a challenge to wholesalers.  Dave Peacock, vice president of business operations, 
declined to say how many salespeople Anheuser currently has or 
how many he hopes to hire.  "We've got a good number of positions available," as the 
company tries to enhance its sales to key retailers such as 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ), big grocers and convenience 
stores, he said from Anheuser-Busch's St. Louis headquarters.  "We're absolutely going to be talking to any InBev person 
that it is interested in talking to us. They know the brands; 
they've worked in high-end segment; that can be good for us."
  POTENTIAL  UBS raised its rating on Anheuser-Busch to "neutral," on 
Friday, saying that investors should start looking at the 
long-term potential, even though it is still concerned about 
near-term issues such as inventory and pricing.  The deal "demonstrates (Anheuser-Busch's) willingness to 
'go where the growth is"' and "helps allay investor concerns 
about its portfolio," UBS analyst Kaumil Gajrawala wrote in a 
research note.  The deal with Belgium's InBev is the latest in a string of 
steps that Anheuser-Busch has taken to gain a stronger foothold 
in the upper tier. In the past year, it bought Rolling Rock 
from InBev and reached a deal to be the exclusive importer and 
distributor of Grolsch NV's GROLc.AS beers as of 2007.  Goldman Sachs analyst Judy Hong, who has a "sell" rating on 
Anheuser-Busch, called the transaction "a modest positive."  She expects it to add about $300 million to sales and 2 
cents per share to earnings in 2007, assuming that Anheuser 
gets a 10 percent to 15 percent importer margin on the brands 
and pays eight to 10 times earnings before interest, taxes, 
depreciation and amortization for the importer rights.  "There is no change to our fundamental view of the stock on 
today's news as we continue to expect the company will need to 
spend at the high end of its guidance range to revive volumes 
for the Budweiser family," Hong said in a note on Thursday.
  IMPORTS AND CRAFTS  At a meeting with analysts on Tuesday, Anheuser-Busch said 
part of its plan for 2007 includes adding more sales 
representatives in urban markets to help promote its products 
-- especially smaller craft beers, as well as imports.  Peacock said the decision to work on improving sales in 
urban markets was made before the InBev deal was contemplated.  "While the transaction is small, we nonetheless consider it 
positive," said Stifel Nicolaus analyst Mark Swartzberg, who 
has a "hold" rating on Anheuser-Busch.  Swartzberg raised his 2007 earnings per share estimate by 2 
cents -- assuming a profit per case of $3, or about $62 million 
pretax, and that Anheuser-Busch pays 10 times that amount, or 
$620 million, for the rights.  Shares of Anheuser-Busch rose 1.9 percent after the deal 
was announced on Thursday, and were up 13 cents at $47.64 late 
on Friday afternoon.