-- EADS close to deal on Airbus A350 launch
-- By William Emmanuel
-- Fri Dec 1, 2006 1:52pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/01/businesspro-eads-a350-dc-idUSL014413020061201

 

 PARIS  (Reuters) - The board of European aerospace group 
EADS ( EAD.PA ) appeared likely to approve the development of the 
Airbus A350, its latest design for a mid-sized jet after an 
earlier version failed in competition with Boeing's ( BA.N ) 
future 787, sources familiar with the matter said. 

  The group was 90 percent sure to back the $10 billion to 
$12 billion A350 extra-wide body, or "XWB," a source close to 
the board said before the meeting, despite cash shortages and a 
loss of global prestige caused by delays to the Airbus A380 
superjumbo.  The French government, which owns 15 percent of EADS, 
rallied to the support of Airbus on Friday after disagreements 
among French and German shareholders over the funding of the 
project.  "The government is very clear about its financial support. 
It is open-minded about how it will be delivered; there's no 
urgency for that," a source close to the government said.  EADS and Airbus declined to comment.  Boeing has outsold Airbus's previous design for the A350, 
which was based partly on old technology, by a margin of at 
least four to one with its fuel-efficient 210-to-330-seat 787 
Dreamliner.  To hit back, Airbus designers dumped the company's original 
wide-body single-deck fuselage for the first time in the 
European planemaker's history and added an extra version to try 
to grab business from the 787 and its larger sister 777 jet.  The market for these planes is estimated in the thousands, 
compared with the 149 net sales for Airbus's delayed A380 
double-decker.
  TRADE THREAT  EADS and European governments are also trying to juggle the 
rising costs of the project against a trade row between Europe 
and the United States over state development loans for Airbus, 
which Washington regards as illegal subsidies.  The Financial Times, citing people close to the talks, said 
the financing package to be presented to the board included up 
to 4 billion euros in financing backed by France, Germany, 
Britain and Spain, the countries that have supported Airbus.  The earlier design for the A350 called for government loans 
of a little over 1 billion euros.  The United States has complained to the World Trade 
Organization about the past use of state development loans and 
has said any launch aid for the A350 would be unacceptable.  Increasing the aid would only make it more difficult to 
negotiate a solution, U.S. officials have said.  The European Union is counter-suing the United States over 
defense contracts and tax breaks it regards as aid for Boeing.  The decision on the A350 has been complicated even further 
by uncertainty over Airbus parent EADS's future shareholder 
structure, with the German government having announced it will 
soon present a plan to guarantee German interests in Airbus.  DaimlerChrysler AG DCXGn.DE has said it will sell a 7.5 
percent stake in EADS, and sources familiar with the situation 
have said that the buyer is likely to be a consortium of banks, 
possibly including German state bank KfW.  (Additional reporting by  Tim Hepher , Nick Antonovics, 
Kerstin Doerr,  James Regan )