-- FCC chief seeks to break tie on AT&T: BellSouth
-- By  Jeremy Pelofsky
-- Fri Dec 1, 2006 6:43pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/01/businesspro-bellsouth-fcc-dc-idUSWBT00624020061201

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. Federal Communications 
Commission Chairman Kevin Martin has sought a ruling that could 
permit a recused commissioner to cast a tie-breaking vote 
allowing AT&T Inc. ( T.N ) to acquire BellSouth Corp. BLS.N, an 
agency official told Reuters on Friday. 

  FCC Commissioner Robert McDowell, a Republican, previously 
worked for an association that represents telephone companies 
competing with AT&T and BellSouth. As a result, McDowell had 
said he did not plan to vote on the transaction.  Martin and fellow Republican Commissioner Deborah Taylor 
Tate have tried to reach a compromise with the two Democratic 
commissioners, Jonathan Adelstein and Michael Copps, on 
possible conditions to attach to any approval.  Citing an impasse in the negotiations, the FCC official 
said Martin asked the agency's general counsel Sam Feder to 
rule on whether the government's interests would be served by 
authorizing McDowell to vote on the $82.2 billion deal.  "I look forward to receiving the general counsel's analysis 
regarding my potential participation," McDowell said in a 
statement. It was not immediately clear how quickly Feder could 
rule.  If McDowell were permitted to vote, he could also decide to 
abstain. The agency has been reviewing the transaction for more 
than seven months.  Martin has put off three public votes on the transaction 
because of disagreements among the four commissioners. There is 
a public FCC meeting scheduled for December 20 where a vote 
could occur.  In recent days, conditions AT&T officials have discussed 
with the FCC have included an arbitration process to resolve 
disputes over rates for competitors to lease lines as well as 
prioritizing Internet content from providers who pay a fee, 
according to agency filings.  Democrats have raised concerns about Internet providers 
charging more for certain content, an issue that has been 
dubbed "Net neutrality." McDowell in the past has questioned 
the need for FCC action when there have been no reports of 
problems.  The deal has already won approval from U.S. antitrust 
authorities and state regulators. It would cement AT&T's 
position as the nation's largest telecommunications provider.