-- Whirlpool nears deal to sell Hoover vacuum-source
-- 
-- Fri Dec 1, 2006 6:50pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/01/businesspro-whirlpool-hoover-dc-idUSN0136417220061201

 

  Michael Flaherty 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Appliance maker Whirlpool Corp.  ( WHR.N ) is nearing a deal to sell Hoover vacuum, the iconic 
appliance brand it acquired as part of its $1.7 billion 
purchase of Maytag this year, a source familiar with the matter 
told Reuters on Friday.  The company is close to signing a deal to sell Hoover to a 
private equity firm, the source said, without identifying the 
buyer.  Corporate buyers in the appliance industry across the globe 
were approached about taking the division, analysts, bankers 
and private equity sources said. A workers union in North 
Canton, Ohio, where Hoover is based, also expressed an interest 
in bidding.  A deal with the private equity firm could be announced as 
early as next week, the source said, although talks could also 
drag on or fall apart.  "We are still continuing to look at offers as they come 
in," Whirlpool spokeswoman Monica Teague said on Friday.  Hoover sales are in the neighborhood of $600 million to 
$700 million, down from around $850 million a "few years ago," 
an analyst familiar with the company said.  The analyst said a deal for Hoover could cost around $200 
million, with manufacturing expected to move out of the United 
States.  Whirlpool said in its last quarterly earnings report it 
expected to sell Hoover by year-end. The company is also trying 
to sell its Jade commercial appliance businesses.  The International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers this 
year hired consultants to help find investment partners and 
work on a possible bid, fearing a buyer would send jobs 
overseas.  Jim Repace, president of the Electrical Workers Local 1985, 
which represents Hoover's 800 workers, said the union was not 
giving up on a bid, despite word that Whirlpool was considering 
final offers for Hoover and could reach a deal shortly.  "It could still work out for us," Repace said on Friday. 
"Our consultants are still working with us."  (Additional reporting by  Karen Jacobs )