-- Kerkorian cuts GM stake -- report says to zero
-- By  Jui Chakravorty
-- Thu Nov 30, 2006 8:47pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/01/businesspro-kerkorian-tracinda-dc-idUSN3018368120061201

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian's 
investment firm on Thursday said it had cut its stake in 
General Motors Corp.( GM.N ) by half with a second large sale, 
prompting speculation about whether the activist investor had 
moved to sell his entire stake in the automaker. 

  In a regulatory filing with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, Tracinda Corp. said it had agreed to sell 14 
million shares in a private transaction for $28.75 a share, 
cutting Kerkorian's stake in the automaker to 4.95 percent -- 
half of what he had owned earlier this year.  The Wall Street Journal, quoting an unnamed source, 
reported in its online edition that Tracinda subsequently sold 
its remaining 28 million GM shares on Thursday.  That development, which could not be immediately confirmed, 
would have ended Kerkorian's largely contentious 19-month 
involvement with the world's largest automaker.  A spokeswoman for Tracinda Corp. declined to comment.  Kerkorian had agitated for an accelerated turnaround at GM 
and some analysts had expected him to mount a proxy fight for 
control of GM rather than cash out of his stake with the modest 
profit implied by his disclosed and reported stock sales.  "Clearly, he wasn't happy with the outcome of the 
Nissan-Renault talks and he has expressed frustration with the 
trajectory of the turnaround," Morningstar analyst John Novak 
said.  Kerkorian's disclosed sale on Thursday came just a week 
after he sold a block of 14 million GM shares for $33 a share, 
cutting his stake from 9.9 percent to 7.4 percent of GM.  Kerkorian's associate Jerry York resigned from GM's board 
in October in a dispute over board oversight and strategy 
triggered by the automaker's decision not to pursue an alliance 
with Renault-Nissan ( RENA.PA ) ( 7201.T ) he had attempted to 
broker on Kerkorian's behalf.  York's resignation from GM's board -- and his public 
criticism of the oversight it provided -- led many analysts to 
believe that Kerkorian could be gearing up for a proxy fight.  But Kerkorian's recent sales of GM stock suggested 
otherwise, analysts said.  "Maybe he realizes he can't create the controversy he needs 
to change the board's direction," AMR Research analyst Kevin 
Reale said.  GM shares closed down 27 cents, or 0.9 percent, at $29.23 
on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday.  GM said it would not speculate on what Kerkorian's 
disclosed stock sale implied. "We don't speculate on the 
motivations or actions of our shareholders," spokeswoman Renee 
Rashid-Merem said.  Tracinda had been the second-largest GM investor before 
last week's sale.  Kerkorian first began amassing what became a $1.7 billion 
stake in GM in April 2005.  At the Greater Los Angeles Auto Show this week, GM Chief 
Executive Officer Rick Wagoner said he was "not excessively 
worried" about a possible proxy fight with Kerkorian.  "We're just running the business every day to do the right 
thing for the business and our shareholders and not excessively 
worried about the rest of that," Wagoner told reporters, 
referring to the risk of a possible proxy fight.  (Additional reporting by  David Bailey  in Chicago)