-- TA Associates Buys Stake in Bleichroeder Holdings
-- Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
-- 2007-09-04T21:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-04/ta-associates-buys-stake-in-bleichroeder-holdings-update3-.html

          
          
             TA Associates , the private-equity
firm with stakes in a dozen investment companies, bought a
minority position in Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder Holdings Inc.,
manager of First Eagle mutual funds. Terms weren't disclosed.  
 The founding-family shareholders of New York-based ASB
Holdings will remain majority owners, the firms said today in a
statement. The transaction provides funds for equity incentives
to Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder's employees.  
 TA Associates, formed 39 years ago to invest in fast-growing companies, has bought stakes in three investment
managers this year as higher assets and rising stock markets
have increased industry profits. In March, the Boston-based firm
purchased a stake in K2 Advisors LLC of  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
which invests clients' money in hedge funds. Also in March, TA
Associates acquired the Jupiter mutual-fund unit of German bank
Commerzbank AG for $1.45 billion.  
 ``It's part of a deliberate strategy to make more
investments in asset-management companies as they have recurring
revenues and rapid growth,'' Roger Kafker, a managing director
at TA Associates, said today in an interview. ``Even during
stock market declines, they stay profitable because there is a
natural trend towards saving more money.''  
 Investment-management acquisitions rose 30 percent globally
to 112 in the first half of 2007, according to Putnam Lovell NBF
Securities. The value of those deals more than doubled to $32
billion, largely driven by private-equity buyers.  
 Keystone, Affiliated Managers  
 TA Associates made its first asset-management deal in 1989
with its investment in Keystone Group, a Boston-based mutual-fund distributor and investment adviser. TA Associates, which
manages $10 billion, has since invested in money managers
including Beverly, Massachusetts-based  Affiliated Managers Group
Inc. (AMG)  and Amvescap Plc's Aim Investments in Houston.  
 Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder manages $45 billion in assets,
including the First Eagle funds, which is home to stock-picker
Jean-Marie Eveillard. The company also manages hedge funds and
separately managed accounts for institutions and wealthy
individuals. Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder was formed from the
merger of two German financing firms in 1931. It shifted to New
York in 1937.  
 Hedda Nadler, a spokeswoman for Arnhold and S.
Bleichroeder, and TA Associates spokeswoman Marcia O'Carroll
declined to comment on the terms.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor on this story:
Larry Edelman in  Boston  at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        