-- Gazprom May Buy Sakhalin-1 Gas for Russian Far East
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2007-09-04T09:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-09-04/gazprom-may-buy-sakhalin-1-gas-for-russian-far-east-update2-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom, Russia's state-run
natural-gas exporter, may buy gas from the Sakhalin-1 project to
sell domestically, said Victor Timoshilov, eastern projects
coordinator for the company.  
 Russian government officials told  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in August
not to plan on exporting natural gas from the $17 billion
Sakhalin-1 venture it operates and instead to work more closely
with Gazprom to ensure domestic demand for the fuel is met.  
 ``Gazprom can be instrumental to help that these priorities
are met,'' Timoshilov said at the Sakhalin Oil and Gas Conference
in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk. ``We can purchase the fuel and then sell it
throughout the Russian  Far East .''  
 Sakhalin-1 has escaped much of the pressure that  Royal Dutch
Shell (RDSA) 's Sakhalin-2 oil and gas project faced from Russian
environmental inspectors last year. Shell and its partners sold
Gazprom a 50 percent stake plus one share for $7.45 billion in
April.  
 Exxon is ``looking at all options'' for the sale of its
natural gas, said  James Taylor , executive vice president for Exxon
Neftegaz Ltd., the subsidiary that operates Sakhalin-1, at the
conference.  
 `Top Priority'  
 Sakhalin-1 will be the only source to supply gas to Russia's
eastern regions until ``at least'' 2015, Gazprom said in an e-mailed statement today. Supplying domestic customers is a ``top
priority'' of the government's plan approved in June to develop
gas production and transportation in the Far East and eastern
Siberia, the company said.  
 The Sakhalin-2 venture, which plans to start producing
Russia's first liquefied natural gas next year, has contracts to
sell almost all of its output to utilities in  Japan  and  Korea .  
 Irving, Texas-based Exxon owns 30 percent Sakhalin-1, which
began pumping oil in 2005 to reach production of 250,000 barrels a
day in February. SODECO of Japan also owns 30 percent and OAO
Rosneft and  India 's  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC)  each own 20 percent.  
 The development is comprised of the Chayvo, Odoptu and
Arkutun Dagi fields, which lie under seas choked with ice for half
the year. The fields are estimated to hold up to 2.3 billion
barrels of oil and 485 billion cubic meters of natural gas.  
 Exxon signed a production sharing agreement with the Russian
government for Sakhalin-1 in 1996, which allows it to export
natural gas outside of Gazprom's monopoly.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        