-- KKR's PagesJaunes Gets EU15 Billion of Loan Orders
-- Cecile Gutscher
-- 2007-02-08T13:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-08/kkr-s-pagesjaunes-gets-eu15-billion-of-loan-orders-update1-.html

          
          
             PagesJaunes SA (PAJ) , the French phone
directory publisher controlled by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.,
received orders worth about 15 billion euros ($19 billion) for a
sale of 3.9 billion euros of high-yield loans.  
 The demand prompted Paris-based PagesJaunes to cut the
interest it will pay on part of the deal to 425 basis points more
than the euro interbank offered rate, a benchmark for borrowing,
from an initial 500 basis points, according to bankers arranging
the loans. Investors have until Feb. 12 to place orders.  
 ``All the yellow pages have performed incredibly well in
general, and this should trade up in the secondary market,'' said
Zak Summerscale, who oversees 5 billion euros of assets at Babson
Capital in London and placed an order for the loans. The lower
 interest rate  shouldn't reduce demand, he said.  
 Investors are buying up loans to put into collateralized
loan obligations, securities that pool high-yield, high-risk
loans and use their income to pay investors, according to
 Standard & Poor's . Banks and money managers created a record 31
billion euros of CLOs in  Europe  last year, more than triple the
amount in 2005, S&P data show.  
 New York-based KKR is borrowing to pay for the 55 percent
stake in PagesJaunes that it bought in December. Leveraged buyout
firms use a little of their own cash and borrow the rest, piling
the debt on the company being acquired.  
 Increased Size  
 Demand was strongest for PagesJaunes' second-lien loan,
which ranks behind senior debt and pays higher yields, the
bankers said. The margin was cut to 425 basis points from 500
basis points, and the size increased to 370 million euros from
165 million euros.  
 The so-called B and C tranches that are sold to fund
managers were also increased, to 389 million euros from 334
million euros. By contrast, the mezzanine piece was reduced to
209 million euros from 524 million euros. Mezzanine debt is the
lowest-ranking type of loan; holders are paid after senior and
second-lien creditors in a default.  
 The company has also added a penalty that will deter it from
refinancing the second-lien note early. The note is not callable
for the first year; after the first year, PagesJaunes can only
redeem the debt at 102 percent of face value, bankers said.  
 Companies such as phone-directory providers are able to
borrow more because investors are reassured by their predictable
income and low spending levels, Summerscale said.  
 PagesJaunes's debt will exceed its  cash flow  by about 9
times. That's the same amount of debt KKR piled on another of its
companies, Dutch magazine publisher VNU NV, when it sold bonds in
August. It was the most debt for any leveraged buyout in Europe,
 Fitch Ratings  said.  
 Three-month Euribor, an average of rates set daily by banks
and used as a borrowing benchmark, is 3.79 percent. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Calyon SA,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  are arranging the loan.  
 Table of PagesJaunes Loan Changes:  
 
Class                    New Margin        Old Margin
Term Loan B
E388.8 mln               225 bps           275 bps

Term Loan C
E388.8 mln               275 bps           325 bps

Second Lien
E370.5 mln               425 bps           500 bps
 
 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in  London  at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin in London at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        