-- RCS Shares Rise After Purchase of Spain's Recoletos
-- Chiara Remondini
-- 2007-02-08T18:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-08/rcs-shares-rise-after-purchase-of-spain-s-recoletos-update2-.html

          
          
             Shares of  RCS MediaGroup SpA (RCS)  rose to
their highest in eight months after the owner of  Italy 's largest
daily agreed to buy Recoletos Grupo de Comunicacion SA to gain
Marca and Expansion, Spain's biggest sports and financial
newspapers.  
 RSC  shares  added 5.6 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 4.3 euros in
Milan, the  highest  closing price since June 5. The gain left the
publisher with a market value of 3.23 billion euros ($4.2
billon). The stock rose 4.9 percent yesterday.  
 Milan-based RCS agreed to pay about 828 million euros for
Recoletos. It will also assume the Spanish company's net debt,
which totaled 272 million euros at the end of 2006. RCS said it
plans to use cash and an existing credit line to finance the
acquisition of Madrid-based Recoletos.  
 ``The deal addresses two specific weaknesses of the stock:
unclear strategy and inefficient capital structure, and makes
strategic sense strengthening RCS in Spain,'' analyst Valentina Romitelli at UBS AG in Milan wrote in a note. ``Most of the
premium paid will be supported by the potential synergies RCS
should exploit by actually doubling the size of its Spanish
business.''  
 Romitelli raised her recommendation on RCS's stock to
``buy'' from ``neutral'' and increased the target price by 23
percent to 4.90 euros. Deutsche Bank AG analyst Alessandro Baj Badino increased the price estimate by 15 percent to 5.3 euros.
He has a ``buy'' rating on the stock.  
 The Italian publisher already controls Unedisa Group,
publisher of El Mundo, Spain's second-biggest general news daily
after El Pais.  
 In September, RCS named Antonello Perricone as chief
executive officer to replace  Vittorio Colao , who quit after two
years at the head of the company. Perricone is seeking to
increase  sales  of the group's biggest newspapers, Corriere della
Sera and Gazzetta dello Sport, and expand the company abroad.  
 ``The market perceives very positively the fact that RCS is
looking abroad because in the past the company has focused too
much on building up capital,'' said Salvatore Provinzano, an
analyst at IlNuovoMercato in  Rome .  
 RCS also owns French publisher Flammarion and a U.K.-based
editor of serial publications.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor for this story:
Zimri Smith at   zsmith@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        