-- RHB Capital Surges After EON Bids to Fend Off Kuwait
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2007-02-08T09:34:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-08/rhb-capital-surges-after-eon-bids-to-fend-off-kuwait-update5-.html

          
          
             Shares of  RHB Capital (RHBC)  Bhd.,
 Malaysia 's fourth-largest bank, surged to more than a six-year
high after EON Capital Bhd. and Kuwait Finance House made
competing bids for the company.  
 EON, whose investors include Malaysian tycoon Syed Mokhtar Al-Bukhary, yesterday made offers for RHB Capital and its parent,
Rashid Hussain Bhd., that may cost as much as 6.33 billion
ringgit ($1.8 billion), based on Bloomberg calculations. Rashid
Hussain owns 65 percent of RHB Capital. EON  shares  sank today.  
 Kuwait Finance House, the  Persian Gulf 's biggest Islamic
investment bank, yesterday bid 2.16 billion ringgit for Utama
Banking Group Bhd.'s 33 percent stake in Rashid Hussain under a
plan to buy out the group. The suitors join overseas banks such
as Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. seeking a foothold
in  Asia 's biggest  Islamic finance  center.  
 ``Kuwait Finance would add more value to RHB compared with
EON, as it will take it to the next level of Islamic banking,''
said Mushtaq Ibrahim, who manages about $1.4 billion of assets
at Amanah SSCM Asset Management Bhd.  
 Shares of Kuala Lumpur-based RHB Capital rose 28 sen, or
6.5 percent, to 4.60 ringgit, the highest closing price since
June 13, 2000. Rashid Hussain shares climbed 5 sen to 1.73
ringgit.  
 ``RHB is the clear-cut winner if this deal goes through,''
said Chan Ken Yew, an analyst at OSK Research Sdn in  Kuala
Lumpur , following EON's announcement. ``For EON's shareholders,
it's a bit mixed.'' A bidding war between EON and Kuwait Finance
is possible, he said.  
 EON stock dropped 5.5 percent to 6.85 ringgit, having
earlier plunged as much as 13 percent.  
 Tycoon Backer  
 EON said it bid 1.8 ringgit for each Rashid Hussain share
and offered to buy other securities such as loan stocks and
warrants. That transaction may cost the company as much as 3.27
billion ringgit, according to the offer prices for each of the
five sets of securities.  
 EON said it will then offer 4.8 ringgit for each RHB
Capital share, valuing the bank at 8.75 billion ringgit. The
remaining 35 percent of RHB Capital, if EON's offer for Rashid
Hussain is successful, would cost EON 3.06 billion ringgit.  
 The transactions need approval from Malaysia's Securities
Commission, the Ministry of Finance and the central bank, EON
said. It expects the deal to be completed by the middle of 2007.  
 Government Stake  
 The interest from foreign investors follows the central
bank's decision on Nov. 15 last year to allow financial services
companies to discuss mergers and acquisitions with more than one
suitor at the same time.  
 Malaysia's Affin Holdings Bhd. said last month it's in
talks to sell a stake to Hong Kong-based Bank of East Asia Ltd.,
while Australia & New Zealand Banking Group in November agreed
to buy a stake in AMMB Holdings Bhd.  
 EON is 20 percent owned by  DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB) , which is
controlled by Syed Mokhtar. Khazanah Nasional Bhd., the
Malaysian government's investment unit, owns 10 percent of EON.  
 The entry of new shareholders at Rashid Hussain may help
the company cut debt and return to profit after it posted losses
in the second and third quarters of 2006.  
 Rashid Hussain's  borrowings  stood at 3.74 billion ringgit
as of Sept. 30, 2006, the company said in November. Some
repayments are due in June this year, Bloomberg data show.  
 Better Prospects  
 Kuwait Finance said on Feb. 5 its investment group plans to
make an offer for the rest of Rashid Hussain after buying the
stake from Utama Banking.  
 The offers from EON and Kuwait Finance aren't the only
suggestions to revive Rashid Hussain. The Employees Provident
Fund, which owns 31 percent of Rashid Hussain, last month
proposed that the company sell its stake in RHB Capital back to
shareholders to reduce borrowings.  
 Rashid Hussain is considering the plan, it said on Jan. 30.  
 Shareholders of Rashid Hussain should opt for Kuwait
Finance's bid because it's worth 2 ringgit a share, Hwang-DBS
Vickers said in a report today. RHB Capital shareholders would
be better taking EON's offer, according to the report.  
 ``The fundamentals of EON Capital are expected to improve
after it acquires RHBC,'' Hwang-DBS Vickers said. EON would
benefit from the higher profile of Rashid Hussain's brand and
investment banking divisions, it said.  
 A spokesman for RHB Capital declined to comment or be
identified. Salman Younis, head of Kuwait Finance House in
Malaysia, couldn't be reached on his cell phone. EON Capital
Chairman Syed Anwar Jamalullail was in a meeting, his secretary
said. Utama Chairman Nik Hashim didn't return a message left at
his office.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Kuala Lumpur at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tony Jordan  at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        