-- Walmex Posts Smallest Profit Growth in a Year
-- Adriana Arai
-- 2007-02-08T22:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-02-08/walmex-posts-smallest-profit-growth-in-a-year-update1-.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart de Mexico SA ,  Latin
America 's biggest retailer, posted its smallest profit increase
in a year by cutting prices to take market share from
competitors.  
 Net income rose 19 percent to 4.38 billion pesos ($400
million), or 51 centavos a share, from 3.68 billion pesos, or 43
centavos a share a year ago, the company said in an e-mail
today. Walmex, as the company is known, is based in  Mexico  City.  
 The retailer intends to counter slowing growth by opening a
bank after June, said Jose Miguel Garaicochea, who helps manage
$1.1 billion at Santander Fondos in Mexico City. The bank will
attract customers to its stores and encourage spending, said
analysts including Eduardo Estrada of Citigroup Global Markets.  
 ``Walmex can grow very rapidly in the banking sector,''
said Garaicochea, who holds Walmex shares in his fund. ``Once
they get the bank format right, they will quickly replicate
it.''  
 Sales at Walmex stores open for at least a year rose 7.1
percent in the fourth quarter. Meantime, supermarket and store
chains that compete against Walmex posted an increase in same-
store sales of 1.9 percent, according to the National
Association of Supermarket and Department Stores.  
 Walmex doesn't belong to the trade group, which includes
Controladora Comercial Mexicana SAB, Organizacion Soriana SAB
and Grupo Gigante SAB.  
 Walmex said today same-store  sales  grew 5.4 percent in
January. All percentage increases for
Walmex and competitors are adjusted for inflation.  
 Economic Expansion  
 Mexico's $833 billion economy expanded at least 4.3
percent, according to finance ministry estimates published Jan.
31.  
 Shares of Walmex, Mexico's second largest company by market
value, fell 0.7 percent to 48.88 pesos today in Mexico City
trading before the earnings release. That reduced this year's
gains to 2.8 percent.  
 The stock rose 27 percent in the fourth quarter, the
biggest quarterly gain since 1999. The country's benchmark Bolsa
index gained 21 percent in the period.  
 Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  owns two-
thirds of Walmex.  
 Fourth-quarter revenue, including sales at all stores and
membership fees, rose 16 percent to 60.8 billion pesos, Walmex
said today. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 20 percent to 6.63 billion pesos.  
 Banking Push  
 Chief Executive Eduardo Solorzano, 49, is entering the
banking market to boost sales and earnings growth. Walmex was
granted a full-service banking license in December, beating its
U.S. parent, whose application was put on hold for a year by
regulators on Jan. 31.  
 The company plans to set up branches at all of its stores,
excluding restaurants, and will initially offer  savings accounts 
and small loans to individuals and small companies, Solorzano
said in November. Walmex had 576 stores and 319 restaurants as
of Dec. 31.  
 ``The bank will boost traffic and customer loyalty,'' said
Eduardo Estrada, who is based in Mexico City.  
 By running the bank out of its stores, Walmex probably will
have the lowest cost within the banking industry and will be
able to tap into lower-income consumers who aren't served by
traditional lenders, wrote Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst  Robert Ford  in a Jan. 5 report. He estimates the bank may net $400
million in five years of operation.  
 About 80 percent of Mexico's 25.8 million households had
access to financial services, according to a 2004 survey by the
government's statistics agency.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Arai in Mexico City 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at   mnol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        