-- Witness says Siemens ex-CFO knew of bribes
-- 
-- Mon Jun 2, 2008 11:49am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/06/02/businesspro-siemens-trial-dc-idUSL0211983420080602

 

 MUNICH, Germany  (Reuters) - Heinz-Joachim Neubuerger, 
former finance chief at German engineering giant Siemens 
( SIEGn.DE ), knew that paying bribes to win contracts was common 
practice, according a statement by a Siemens executive read out 
in court on Monday. 

  Neubuerger even advised Michael Kutschenreuter, a senior 
manager at Siemens' telecoms arm at the time, to exchange 
information on organizing such payments with a manager at 
Siemens' turbines unit, according to Kutschenreuter's 
statement.  Kutschenreuter, who is also a suspect in a mammoth 
investigation by Munich prosecutors into suspected corruption 
at Siemens, was not himself in court. His statement was read 
out by prosecutor Hildegard Baeumler-Hoesl.  Neither Neubuerger, now a managing director at private 
equity firm KKR KKR.UL, nor his lawyer was immediately 
reachable for comment.  Neubuerger was questioned as a suspect early last year.  The trial at Munich's Higher Regional Court -- of star 
informer Reinhard Siekaczek, who faces 58 charges of breach of 
trust -- is expected to be the first of many arising from a 
years-long investigation by Munich prosecutors.  Siemens, Europe's biggest engineering group, is also being 
investigated by the U.S. Department of Justice and the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, among other foreign 
authorities, and could be barred from bidding for certain U.S. 
contracts.  The company has so far identified 1.3 billion euros' ($2 
billion) worth of suspect payments booked as consultancy fees 
earlier this decade. The affair led to the resignations of 
Siemens' chief executive and chairman last year.  Kutschenreuter said in his statement he did go to see the 
manager in question at Siemens' turbines unit, who has since 
been convicted of bribing employees of Italian energy firm Enel 
( ENEI.MI ), but the manager was uncommunicative.  Kutschenreuter said Thomas Ganswindt, head of Siemens' 
telecoms equipment unit at the time and later a member of the 
company's executive board, also knew of the bribery.  Ganswindt, who is also a suspect, has admitted that point, 
Baeumler-Hoesl said.  (Reporting by Jens Hack)