-- Halcyon, Kepco Talk on Bid for TGK-4 Russian Utility
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2008-03-21T12:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-03-21/halcyon-kepco-talk-on-bid-for-tgk-4-russian-utility-update1-.html

          
          
             Halcyon, an investment group focusing
on Russian electricity, is in talks with  Korea Electric Power
Corp. (015760)  and an unidentified utility about a bid for OAO TGK-4 power
utility as Russia opens the industry to competition.  
 Halcyon, run by a former director at Russian national utility
OAO Unified Energy System, David Herne, may form a consortium with
Korea Electric or another ``foreign utility'' for the TGK-4
auction, Herne said today by phone in Moscow. TGK-4, based in
Tula, central Russia, will be auctioned by April 7.  
 ``I think this is the best'' regional utility up for auction
in Russia, Herne said.  
 State-controlled Unified Energy wants to raise as much as 1
trillion rubles ($42 billion) from the auctions of shares in
companies it holds as  Russia  breaks up the national utility. The
cash will go toward upgrading and expanding the nation's aging
electricity grid, and allow the state to sell its interests in
thermal power generation.  
 TGK-4, with a market value of about $1.5 billion based on
today's trading on Moscow's Micex exchange, operates 25 mainly
gas-fired  power plants  in western Russia with a capacity of 3,324
megawatts.  
 Herne's Halcyon group, whose Power Investment Co. fund trades
on the Irish stock exchange, has a minority stake in TGK-4.
Prosperity Capital Management, a Moscow-based fund run by
Alexander Branis, has about 19 percent of the generator.  
 CEZ AS (CEZ) , the  Czech Republic 's biggest power producer, said
Sept. 24 that it may bid for a stake in TGK-4.  
 Russian billionaire  Vladimir Lisin , who controls OAO
Novolipetsk Steel, is another TGK-4 bidder, Interfax said today,
citing an unidentified person close to the auction. Novolipetsk
operates its main mill near the city of Lipetsk, and is also
served by TGK-4's power plants.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   
          
          


  


        