-- Goldman Undercuts Rivals in GM IPO as It Loses Top Role
-- Jeffrey McCracken
-- 2010-08-16T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-16/goldman-sachs-undercuts-rivals-in-general-motors-ipo-as-it-loses-top-role.html

          
          
             Wall Street banks led by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  and  Morgan Stanley  stand to make a combined $120
million on General Motors Co.’s initial public offering. If it
weren’t for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , they could have made four
times as much.  
 In a pitch to the U.S. Treasury in May, Goldman Sachs
offered to accept a fee of 0.75 percent, according to people
with direct knowledge of the matter. That’s a fraction of the 3
percent banks typically charge on the largest IPOs and well
below the 2 percent offered by  Bank of America Corp.  and other
banks that presented to Treasury, said the people, speaking
anonymously because the matter is private.  
 Goldman Sachs, which had just been sued for fraud by
federal regulators and has ties to GM competitor  Ford Motor Co. ,
didn’t get a top role in the IPO. The government imposed the fee
pitched by Goldman Sachs President  Gary Cohn  and his five-person
team on all underwriters, angering the banks, the people said.  
 “The fact the other banks are furious at Goldman is not
surprising,” said  Samuel Hayes , a professor emeritus of
investment banking at  Harvard Business School  in Boston. “They
feel it gave the government a real lever to force down fees on
the underwriters. But the deal still has a lot of marquee
value.”  
 Subsidized Car Purchases  
 Banks involved in the deal include lead managers JPMorgan
and Morgan Stanley, as well as Bank of America and  Citigroup
Inc. , among others. Some banks made different concessions in
their pitches to the Treasury. Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America and Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG  offered
to use some of their fees to buy GM vehicles or to subsidize
employee purchases of GM cars and trucks, according to the
people with knowledge of the matter.  
 Goldman Sachs spokeswoman  Andrea Rachman  and spokespeople
for the other banks declined to comment. Treasury spokesman  Mark Paustenbach  also declined to comment.  
 Goldman Sachs will have a role in the offering, as will
Credit Suisse, said the people. Five U.S. banks pitched GM and
the Treasury on May 19 in Washington, and non-U.S. lenders made
presentations in early June. All sent top executives, such as
JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  and  John Mack ,
chairman of Morgan Stanley.  
 Treasury officials including  Ronald Bloom , chief of the
auto task force, and GM executives were concerned that if it
became public the government hadn’t picked Goldman Sachs’s low
bid, they would face criticism for wasting taxpayer money
because of a bias against the firm, the people said. The
officials and executives decided, in conjunction with  Lazard
Ltd. , which is advising Treasury, to use the Goldman Sachs bid
and impose it on other banks.  
 ‘Probably Serious’  
 Goldman Sachs signaled that it was willing to make a bid
for pretty much any amount, according to two people who saw the
bank’s presentation. Rivals grumbled that Goldman Sachs knew it
couldn’t win the lead on the GM offering, so it submitted a low
bid knowing that would force Treasury to squeeze whichever banks
did win the job, these people said.  
 “The investment banks have always been cutthroat in their
competition,” Hayes said. “I don’t think they did it just to
squeeze their competitors. They were probably serious.”  
 All the U.S. banks, apart from Bank of America and Bermuda-
based Lazard, have their headquarters in New York.  
 4-Cent Fee  
 In India, Goldman Sachs this year tied for the lowest bid
among 17 banks vying to manage a $1.8 billion offer by state-
owned  Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd. , three people with
knowledge of the matter said. Goldman Sachs and  SBI Capital
Markets Ltd.  said they’d do the work for a fee equal to
0.00000001 percent of the sale proceeds -- equivalent to about 2
rupees (4 cents) each on the deal.  
 At the time of the pitch, Goldman Sachs and the Securities
and Exchange Commission were at odds over allegations Goldman
Sachs had sold mortgage-related securities designed to fail. The
firm settled the suit last month for $550 million and
acknowledged it made a “mistake.” A June poll showed that the
firm suffered the worst reputational decline among its largest
competitors, according to a global quarterly poll of 1,001
investors and analysts who are Bloomberg subscribers.  
 GM, 61 percent owned by the government after a $50 billion
taxpayer bailout, aims to raise $12 billion to $16 billion in
the IPO and plans to file the registration statement as early as
today, according to people familiar with the situation. At that
size, the IPO would be the second-largest in the U.S. after San
Francisco-based  Visa Inc. ’s $19.7 billion offering in March
2008.  
 Goldman Trails  
 While the IPO is paying a quarter of the usual rate for the
largest initial offerings in the U.S., fees would equal about 16
percent of the total $728.4 million of revenue generated from
all U.S. IPOs this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Goldman Sachs, which won the biggest share of fees from
underwriting U.S. IPOs in 2009, has slipped to third this year
behind Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan, the data show. The firm’s
first-half revenue from underwriting equity sales also trailed
JPMorgan and Bank of America, according to company reports.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm in Wall Street
history, has been credited with 12.6 percent of the $11.3
billion in initial sales this year. Last year, it had 21.3
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Still, American companies that used Goldman Sachs as the
lead underwriter got the highest prices for their shares in the
first half, selling at an average 1.4 percent discount to their
offering range, the data show. Companies that didn’t hire the
141-year-old firm to lead their IPOs took an average discount of
14 percent for their shares.  
 Ford Backs Goldman  
 Goldman Sachs bankers have advised Ford since 1953 and the
firm managed Ford’s IPO in January 1956, the biggest ever at the
time.  Sidney Weinberg , the Goldman Sachs chairman who managed
the sale and was later named to Ford’s board, used Ford “to
leapfrog his firm’s standing on Wall Street into the top tier of
underwriters,” according to Charles Ellis’s book “The
Partnership: The Making of Goldman Sachs.”  
 Ford publicly backed Goldman Sachs after the firm was sued
for fraud by the SEC. “We have a long relationship with Goldman
Sachs and expect it to continue,” Ford spokesman  Mark Truby 
said on April 20, four days after the SEC sued Goldman Sachs.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Goldman Sachs Group Inc President Gary Cohn  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The government imposed the fee pitched by Goldman Sachs President Gary Cohn and his five-person team on all underwriters, angering the banks. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The government imposed the fee pitched by Goldman Sachs President Gary Cohn and his five-person team on all underwriters, angering the banks. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Christine Harper discusses stock options exercised by Goldman Sachs Inc. executives.
     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein made $6.1 million by exercising options granted to him in 2000 that were due to expire in November. Harper, speaking with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses Goldman's role in General Motors Co.'s initial public offering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Jeffrey McCracken talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s role in General Motors Co.'s initial public offering.
     In a pitch to the U.S. Treasury in May, Goldman Sachs offered to accept a fee of 0.75 percent, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter. That's a fraction of the 3 percent banks typically charge on the largest IPOs. McCracken speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Thomas Brown, chief executive officer of Second Curve Capital LLC and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, talks about the initial public offering market and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s role in General Motors Co.'s IPO.
     Brown, speaking with Betty Liu, Sheila Dharmarajan and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses bank earnings and stock outlook. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 13 (Bloomberg) -- Rebecca Lindland, an analyst at IHS Automotive, talks about the leadership change at General Motors Co. and prospects for an initial public offering by the company.
     GM Chief Executive Officer Ed Whitacre, who led the largest U.S. automaker from bankruptcy to two straight profitable quarters, will step down as CEO on Sept. 1 and be replaced by director Dan Akerson. Lindland speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
