-- Putin Seals Gazprom Control of Serbian Oil Company
-- Lucian Kim
-- 2008-01-25T12:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-25/putin-seals-gazprom-control-of-serbian-oil-company-update2-.html

          
          
             President  Vladimir Putin  sealed an
energy deal with his Serbian counterpart  Boris Tadic  giving OAO
Gazprom control of the Balkan country's national oil company.  
 OAO Gazprom Neft (SIBN) , the natural-gas producer's oil unit, will
acquire 51 percent of Naftna Industrija Srbije, known as NIS,
state broadcaster Vesti-24 reported from the Kremlin today.  
 ``Cooperation with Gazprom opens the opportunity for Serbia
to become an energy center not only in the Balkans but also in
Europe,'' Gazprom Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  told
reporters after the signing.  
 The deal, approved by the Serbian government earlier this
week, was signed by Gazprom Neft Chief Executive Officer Alexander Dyukov and Serbian Infrastructure Minister Velimir Ilic.  
 Ilic also signed an agreement on energy cooperation with
Russian Energy Minister Viktor Khristenko. The accord lays out
 Serbia 's participation in Gazprom's planned South Stream gas
pipeline from Bulgaria to western Europe, the Interfax news
service cited Miller as saying. At least 10 billion cubic meters
of gas, or a third of South Stream's capacity, will flow through
Serbia, Miller said.  
 Gazprom gave no details on how much the NIS stake is worth.
The Russian company offered 400 million euros ($584 million) for
NIS and another 500 million euros in investments in gas
infrastructure projects like the South Stream pipeline, Serbia's
state-owned newspaper Politika reported earlier this month.  
 Under the agreement, Gazprom Neft will modernize and increase
NIS's refining capacity, the Russian company said in an e-mailed
statement. Miller said Gazprom is considering ``significant
investments,'' Interfax reported, without providing details.  
 NIS produces 1 million tons of crude and refines 7 million
tons annually.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucian Kim in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        