-- Samsung Fire's Seoul Office Raided in Bribery Probe
-- Bomi Lim
-- 2008-01-25T02:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-25/samsung-fire-s-seoul-office-raided-in-bribery-probe-update3-.html

          
          
             South Korean investigators raided
the Seoul office of  Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co. (000810)  as part
of a probe into allegations Samsung Group diverted cash to bribe
government officials and prosecutors. Samsung Fire shares fell
as much as 4.5 percent.  
 Investigators are searching for evidence to show whether
the company was involved in creating slush funds, Yun Jung Sok,
a spokesman for the special prosecutors carrying out the probe,
said by telephone from the capital. A Samsung Fire spokeswoman,
who declined to be identified, confirmed the raid.  
 The special prosecutors have been investigating accusations
by Samsung's former chief attorney, Kim Yong Chul, that the
country's largest industrial group amassed funds to bribe
powerful figures. Samsung has denied the charges.  
 Samsung Fire shares fell to 193,000 won as of 10:04 a.m.
after declining to 192,000 won, the lowest since Sept. 19. That
compares with a gain of 0.8 percent on the benchmark Kospi index.  
 About 30 investigators are in Samsung Fire's  Seoul 
headquarters searching rooms, including the office of Chief
Executive Officer Hwang Tae Seon,  Yonhap News  agency reported.
Officials are checking whether Samsung Fire diverted cash from
payments to customers to create slush funds of 1.5 billion won
($1.7 million) annually, the Korean-language report said.  
 Independent Counsel  
 Investigators, under an independent counsel appointed by
President Roh Moo Hyun, earlier raided Chairman Lee Kun Hee's
residence and questioned several Samsung executives, including
Bae Ho Won, chief executive officer of Samsung Securities Co.  
 The investigation is also looking into whether Lee and
other executives helped Lee's son, Lee Jae Yong, improperly gain
control of Samsung units. The probe, which began on Jan. 10, has
to be completed by late April.  
 Samsung has 59 units, including  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
Asia's biggest maker of chips and mobile phones. Other
affiliates include Samsung Heavy Industries Co., the world's
second-largest shipbuilder, and Samsung SDI Co., the second-
biggest maker of plasma display panels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        