-- Russia July Service Industries Growth Slows on Heat Wave, VTB Capital Says
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-08-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-04/russia-july-service-industries-growth-slows-on-heat-wave-vtb-capital-says.html

          
          
             Russian service industries from
hotels to supermarkets expanded for a 12th month in July, though
the pace of growth slowed because of a heat wave and fewer new
orders, VTB Capital said.  
 The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 54.2 last month,
compared with 55.4 in June, VTB Capital said in an e-mailed
statement today. The index, based on a survey of about 300
purchasing managers, shows expansion with a reading above 50.  
 “Both the business activity and the incoming new business
sub-indices eased, with companies noting the abnormal heat wave
as one of the reasons,”  Svetlana Aslanova , an analyst at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said in the statement. “Nevertheless, the
sustained growth in activity prompted service providers to add
workforce for the fourth consecutive month.”  
 Russia is in the midst of a heat wave and the worst drought
in at least 50 years, which is set to continue, the state
Hydrometeorological Center said on its website. Temperatures in
most parts of central Russia will be 8 degrees Celsius above
average through Aug. 12, rising as high as 42 degrees Celsius
(108 degrees Fahrenheit), the state weather service predicts.  
 Russian  retail sales  surged the most since November 2008 in
June as the number of  unemployed  slid for a third consecutive
month, Federal Statistics Service data show, signaling domestic
demand may help drive the recovery.  
 The Economy Ministry is set to raise this year’s economic
growth forecast from 4 percent after output growth accelerated
last quarter, Deputy Economy Minister Andrei Klepach said on
July 27. Gross domestic product expanded an annual 5.4 percent
in the three months through June, according to Klepach. This
compares with 2.9 percent growth in the first quarter.  
 ‘Weak’ Rate  
 Service companies added jobs for a fourth month in July,
though the “overall rate of job creation remained weak,” VTB
Capital said.  
 “ Inflationary pressures  remained subdued,” though costs
linked to wages, travel and outsourcing rose, the bank said.
“Transportation and storage companies posted the steepest rate
of input price inflation.”  
 The seasonally adjusted services PMI, first compiled in
October 2001, is a composite of five differently weighted
indexes including business, employment and new, outstanding and
future business, according to VTB Capital.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        