-- Wheat Heads for Biggest Gain in Half a Century on Export Bans
-- Jeff Wilson
-- 2010-08-06T13:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-08-04/wheat-surges-to-22-month-high-on-russian-drought-corn-soybeans-advance.html

          
          
             Wheat headed for the biggest weekly
gain in half a century on concern other countries may follow an
export ban by Russia, and may reach $10 a bushel, a price not
seen since the global food crisis in 2008.  
 Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said Kazakhstan and
Belarus should also suspend shipments as Russia announced a ban
on grain exports from Aug. 15 to yearend. “It’s got $10 written
all over it,” said  Peter McGuire , managing director at CWA
Global Markets Pty, who on Aug. 3 correctly forecast the surge
to $8.50. Wheat was last at $10 in March 2008, and a gain to
that price would be up 23 percent from yesterday’s close.  
 Russia’s ban may benefit rival producers, including the
U.S., the largest exporter, Australia and Argentina, according
to Rabobank. Wheat prices have doubled in less than two months
as drought slashed the harvest in Russia, the third-largest
grower, and rains cut Canadian output. The surge may herald a
new food crisis as corn and other staples jump, said a trade
group from Indonesia, Asia’s top wheat buyer.  
 “This situation is reminiscent of the irrational moves
already seen in the past, for example at the start of 2008,”
Bourges, France-based farm adviser Offre et Demande Agricole
said in a comment today. “It’s always very hard to say where
prices can end up in such conditions.”  
 Best Performer  
 Wheat for December delivery rose 1.2 percent to $8.25 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time,
taking gains for that contract to 25 percent this week. That’s
the most since at least 1959. Wheat is the best-performing
commodity this year on the UBS Bloomberg CMCI Index, ahead of
coffee and nickel.  
 “We believe that the rally in wheat prices is overdone,
but would not short wheat,” Morgan Stanley analysts including
 Hussein Allidina  said in a note to investors, referring to
making bets that prices may drop. Other wheat-growing countries
may opt to limit exports, potentially boosting prices, even
though global wheat stockpiles are ample, they wrote.  
 Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris rose 1 euro, or 0.5 percent, to 224.50 euros ($295.91) a
metric ton. Investors bought and sold a record 74,729 contracts
yesterday, the exchange said today.  
 Wheat has rallied as a heat wave in Russia, dry weather in
Kazakhstan, Ukraine and the European Union, and flooding in
Canada hurt crops. Some Russian farmers are reluctant to sow
winter grains after soil became too dry because of the drought,
the government said today.  
 Food Riots  
 Wheat reached a record $13.495 in February 2008, part of a
surge in prices that sparked food riots from Haiti to Egypt.
Still, concern that lower-than-expected wheat output may
contribute to a food crisis is “unwarranted at this stage,”
the UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization  said on Aug. 4.  
 There should be sufficient global supplies of wheat,
“barring no more production setbacks,” said  Doug Whitehead , an
analyst at Rabobank in London. “The market will pay very close
attention to crop prospects in Australia and Argentina.”  
 Halting Russia’s wheat shipments would be “appropriate”
to contain domestic prices that jumped 19 percent last week,
Putin said. The country exported 17.4 million tons of wheat in
the year through June, the Federal Customs Service of Russia
said today.  
 The Russian ban will “rattle the markets for the next
several months” and boost demand for stockpiles from the U.S.,
 Bob Young , the chief economist at the American Farm Bureau
Federation, said yesterday from Washington.  
 ‘Driving Lamborghinis’  
 “When Putin speaks, the world listens,” said McGuire at
CWA, referring to the possibility other nations may curb
shipments. U.S. farmers would benefit because they have the
supply to meet demand in the global market, he said. “They’ll
all be driving Lamborghinis.”  
 Kazakhstan, Russia’s partner in a customs union, exported
7.5 million tons in the year ended June 30, while Belarus, also
a partner, shipped 400,000 tons, according to the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Ukraine accounted for 9.2 million
tons in the same year, it said.  
 World wheat stockpiles may fall 2.5 percent to 192 million
tons by June as the dry weather hurts the outlook for crops in
Russia, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and the EU, the International Grains
Council said on July 29, reversing a forecast for higher
inventories.  
 Corn for December delivery fell 0.7 percent in Chicago to
$4.1525 a bushel while soybeans for delivery in November were
unchanged at $10.29 a bushel.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Vladimir Putin, Russia's prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin last month ordered proposals to be drawn up for subsidized sales of grain inventories to livestock farmers to prevent herd reductions. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin last month ordered proposals to be drawn up for subsidized sales of grain inventories to livestock farmers to prevent herd reductions. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug 3 (Bloomberg) -- Alexander Bos, a commodity analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd., talks about the outlook for wheat prices amid Russia's worst drought in at least 50 years.
     Wheat jumped to a 22-month high in Chicago trading yesterday, extending a 38 percent advance in July that was the biggest since 1973. Bos speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          Aug. 4 (Bloomberg) -- Edward Morse, the New York-based head of commodities research at Credit Suisse Group AG, talks about the outlook for the oil market and Russia's wheat supply.
     Morse speaks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
