-- Retailer H&M Looks to Lanvin to Bring Back Lagerfeld Sales Effect
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-11-19T08:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/h-m-looks-to-lanvin-collection-to-bring-back-lagerfeld-effect.html
(Corrects spelling of town where Inditex is based)  Hennes & Mauritz AB  is looking to
bring back the Lagerfeld effect.  Since shoppers mobbed H&M stores in November 2004 to grab
the Chanel designer’s clothing at a fraction of the usual cost,
the retailer has failed to recreate the same effect on revenue
growth with subsequent collections. The Stockholm-based
retailer’s latest attempt is a line by Paris fashion house
Lanvin, which goes on sale Nov. 23 worldwide.  “Sequels always draw less attention,” said  Armando Branchini , a consultant at Intercorporate in Milan, of the
collections after Lagerfeld, which lifted monthly revenue by 24
percent. That said, “The Lanvin designers are very well known
in the fashion world and these collections always draw a lot of
attention and H&M benefits.”  H&M’s  sales growth  may accelerate this month for the first
November since 2007 as shoppers regain the confidence to splash
out on  $249 evening dresses  and  $299 tuxedos  by Lanvin,
estimates  Luca Solca , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.
Revenue growth slowed in the last two Novembers as shoppers
concerned with the credit crunch were less enthusiastic about
H&M lines of Jimmy Choo sandals and Comme Des Garcons dresses.  Lanvin, founded as a milliner’s boutique in Paris in  1889 ,
is known for ruffled and flowered cocktail dresses, according to
Vogue magazine. The designer sells draped T-shirt dresses for
$1,225 and satin ballerina flats for $625 on its website. The
H&M collection will be introduced in the U.S. on Nov. 20 at the
opening of its third store in Las Vegas.  McCartney, Cavalli  H&M uses the ranges, which have also been designed by
 Stella McCartney  and  Roberto Cavalli , to stir shoppers’
interest. The selections typically sell at a premium to the
company’s regular clothes, allowing for a boost of as much as 1
percent to the annual margin, Solca estimates.  H&M, which sells  dresses  for less than $10, grabbed
worldwide attention with the  Karl Lagerfeld  collection. Other
retailers including  Philip Green ’s Topshop have followed the
trend of celebrity-designed clothing and Gap Inc. is working
with Valentino on a seven-piece collection that will be for sale
in Italy starting tomorrow.  The Lagerfeld collection featured black sequin jackets for
$129.90 and double-breasted wool coats for $149. Stores were
mobbed as shoppers in 20 countries sought out the products, some
of which sold for double the retail price on  EBay Inc.’s  auction
site days later. The rise in total revenue that month was the
fastest pace in three years at the time.  Diminishing Returns  A collection by Stella McCartney, which was sold at fewer
shops than the Lagerfeld one, helped boost revenue by 11 percent
the following November. The range included dresses for $99.90.
Her clothes sold for more than $1,000 at the time.  Last November, when the Jimmy Choo collection was
introduced, H&M reported 1 percent total sales growth, the
slowest since it introduced guest ranges. The year earlier, in
the month of the Comme Des Garcons collection, sales rose 7
percent, down from a 14 percent gain in the prior period when
H&M sold a line by Cavalli.  Charlotta Nemlin, a spokeswoman for H&M, declined to
comment on the cost of holding the collections or its
advertising budget for them, adding that “if we didn’t believe
that a designer collaboration would be profitable for us, both
in terms of sales and image, we wouldn’t do it.”  Sharpened Elbows  So far, the collections strategy hasn’t given enough of a
boost for H&M to keep up with rival  Inditex SA , which owns Zara
stores. The Arteixo, Spain-based company overtook H&M in 2006 as
Europe’s biggest clothing retailer. Inditex, which limits its
advertising to newspapers for its sales in some countries, has
expanded around the world more rapidly and now has more than
twice the outlets that H&M has.  For Inditex, “prime stores, store windows, store
environment and the product build the brand,” said  Anne Critchlow  an analyst at Societe Generale in London.  “Inditex fashion is so “fast” that the customer doesn’t
need to be persuaded to buy it through advertising, it is the
product that he/she already wants,” she said.  Still, analysts don’t want H&M to stop the collections
altogether.  “Designer collaborations help nevertheless to increase
H&M’s fashion appeal and provide better economics, contributing
to margin increases,” Solca said.  Vogue magazine had more pointed advice for its readers,
telling them to sharpen their elbows in preparation for the new
collection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  