-- Two `Wiseguys' Plead Guilty to Hacking Computers in Ticket Scalping Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/-wiseguys-to-plead-guilty-to-ticket-scalping-charges-prosecutor-says.html
Two men pleaded guilty to using
illegal computer tactics to buy and resell more than 1 million
choice seats for events for events such as  Bruce Springsteen 
concerts and the Rose Bowl football game.  Kenneth Lowson, 41, and Kristofer Kirsch, 37, admitted in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey, that they made more than
$25 million in profit by illegally cutting ahead of the public
to buy premium seats through  Live Nation Entertainment Inc. ’s
Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc. and other vendors.  Lowson and Kirsch, two Los Angeles men who co-owned Wiseguy
Tickets Inc., pleaded guilty yesterday to conspiracy to commit
wire fraud and gain unauthorized access to protected computers.
A Wiseguy computer programmer, Joel Stevenson, 37, of Alameda,
California, also pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor computer crime.  “These defendants made money by combining age-old fraud
with new-age computer hacking,” U.S. Attorney  Paul Fishman  said
in a statement. “Their guilty pleas confirm that no matter what
they called their activities, they were criminal violations.”  Under a plea deal, Lowson and Kirsch face as long as two
years in prison. Stevenson faces as long as one year in prison.
U.S. District Judge  Katharine Hayden  set sentencing for March
15.  The three men were initially charged Feb. 23 with a fourth
man, Faisal Nahdi, who remains at large.  Lowson and Kirsch had previously argued that their actions
may have been civil violations of the law, not criminal.  Bon Jovi, Barbra Streisand  They pleaded guilty to a conspiracy charge in a 43-count
indictment, admitting that they fraudulently bought prime seats
to concerts by Springsteen, Hannah Montana,  Bon Jovi ,  Barbra Streisand ,  Billy Joel  and  Kenny Chesney .  They admitted fraudulently buying tickets to the 2006 Rose
Bowl and the 2007 Major League Baseball playoffs at Yankee
Stadium. They admitted buying almost half of the 440 best
general admission floor seats to a July 2008 concert by
Springsteen at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Lowson and Kirsch admitted they defeated computer systems
that barred automated programs from buying tickets sold on a
first-come, first-served basis.  By working with programmers in Bulgaria, California-based
Wiseguy Tickets sidestepped technology known as CAPTCHA, which
required users to read, then retype, distorted images of letters
and numbers to buy tickets, Lowson and Kirsch admitted. They
also evaded audio CAPTCHA challenges for the visually impaired.  By getting around CAPTCHA challenges in tenths of a second,
the defendants sped up the purchasing process when other
consumers were locked out of the primary ticket market,
according to prosecutors.  “They sold tickets to a public that craves tickets” and
resold them to others “who couldn’t procure them through
Ticketmaster,” Lowson’s attorney, Mark Rush, said after the
hearing.  The case is U.S. v. Lowson, 10-cr-114, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 