-- Actelion, Eyed by Amgen, May Fetch $9.8 Billion in Takeover Bid
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2010-11-18T21:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/actelion-eyed-by-amgen-may-fetch-9-8-billion-in-takeover-analysts-say.html
Actelion Ltd. , the Swiss drugmaker
that may attract a takeover offer from  Amgen Inc. , could fetch
as much as 9.7 billion Swiss francs ($9.8 billion) in an
acquisition, according to analysts.  An acquirer may pay about 70 francs per share, according to
the median of 7 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
range was 65 francs to 75 francs a share. The Allschwil,
Switzerland-based company’s stock closed yesterday at 54.60
francs, giving Actelion a market value of about 7.06 billion
francs.  An acquisition would be the biggest purchase of a European
biotechnology company since  Merck KGaA  bought Serono SA for 10.3
billion euros ($14 billion) in 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Actelion gets most of its sales from Tracleer, a
drug to treat a lung condition known as pulmonary arterial
hypertension that begins to lose patent protection in five
years. The company also has two other compounds to treat the
illness in late-stage testing.  “Whoever does acquire Actelion will get value not just in
Tracleer until 2015, but also in the package of PAH drugs as
they can leverage the lung specialists they already have for
distributing Tracleer,” said  Carri Duncan , an analyst at
Macquarie Group in Zurich. Actelion may be worth about 65 francs
a share in a takeover, based on the price Sanofi-Aventis SA has
offered for  Genzyme Corp ., Duncan said.  ‘Regular Dialogue’  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, is
considering a takeover offer for Actelion and may approach the
company as early as this week, two people with knowledge of the
matter said Nov. 16. Amgen has declined to comment. Actelion
said in a statement yesterday that it’s in “regular dialogue
with other industry participants” as part of its “ordinary
course of business” and declined to comment further.  Acquirers paid a median of 23 times earnings before
interest, taxes and amortization for biotechnology companies in
the past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Based on that multiple and  last year’s Ebitda , Actelion would be
valued at about 9.3 billion francs.  Roche Holding AG  bid about
15.7 times Genentech Inc.’s Ebitda in 2008, while Merck
offered 14.6 times the Ebitda of  Millipore Corp . this year.  Biotechnology companies attracted a median of 1.37 times
market value over the same period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Based on that multiple and yesterday’s closing price,
Actelion would be valued at 9.67 billion francs.  Roche  bid about
1.25 times Genentech market value, while Merck offered 1.69
times that of Millipore.  Shares Rise  Actelion rose 1.40 francs, or 2.6 percent, to 56 francs at
the close of Zurich trading. The stock has gained 1.4 percent
this year, compared with a 4.3 percent return for the  Bloomberg
Europe Pharmaceutical Index . The stock declined this year after
disappointing clinical trials of Tracleer against a rare lung
ailment and of its clazosentan experimental medicine in patients
who had suffered from bleeding in the brain.  The company said last year “safety observations” in a
study of its almorexant insomnia drug needed further
investigation.  While takeover premiums in the biotechnology industry can
range from 50 percent to 100 percent, the setbacks in clinical
trials this year would likely affect the value of Actelion in a
takeover, said  Samir Devani , an analyst at Nomura Code in
London.  “With the failures that have happened this year and the
question marks over almorexant, probably nearer the lower end of
the range would be fair right now,” he said.  High Blood Pressure  PAH is a potentially fatal condition that causes high blood
pressure in the artery moving blood from the heart to the lungs.
Actelion’s two other compounds that are designed to treat PAH
are macitentan and selexipag.  Actelion’s portfolio of PAH drugs may be worth about 69
francs a share, while other experimental medicines may be worth
an additional 6 francs a share,  Olav Zilian , an analyst at
Helvea, wrote in a research note Oct. 8.  As a defensive measure, Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Paul Clozel  has discussed asking Roche Holding AG, Johnson & Johnson
and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. to consider taking a minority
stake, the people with knowledge of the matter said. The
companies declined to comment.  Actelion has said it wants to remain independent, a stance
that could make a takeover of the company difficult, said
 Sibylle Bishofberger , an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank in
Zurich.  “When you buy a biotech company, you’re also buying the
brainpower of its employees and if it becomes hostile you risk
losing that,” she said. “Actelion has made it very clear that
it wants to stand alone.”  Tracleer generated 1.51 billion francs in sales in 2009, 85
percent of the company’s revenue.  Amgen rose $1.27, or 2.4 percent, to $55.14 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares
have fallen 2.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  