-- Madagascar's Armed Forces Look to Avoid Bloodshed Following Coup Attempt
-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 2010-11-18T17:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/madagascar-army-vows-to-avoid-bloodshed-after-rebel-officers-attempt-coup.html
Madagascar’s army said it was
looking to avoid bloodshed after a group of rebel officers
attempted to overthrow the government of President  Andry Rajoelina  yesterday.  About 20 dissident officers are at an army base near the
airport in the capital, Antananarivo, where they issued a
declaration calling for the government to be dissolved and power
to be handed to the military. Nickel rose for a second day on
concern the crisis would delay supplies from the $4.65 billion
Ambatovy mine.  “For the moment there is a strong desire not to use
force,” said Colonel Philibert Ratovonirina, head of
communications for the army. “We are still trying to negotiate
without violence.”  Rajoelina, the 36-year-old former mayor of Antananarivo,
came to power 20 months ago with army support, ousting his
predecessor President  Marc Ravalomanana . That triggered the
island nation’s suspension from the African Union and a halt to
non-humanitarian aid that previously accounted for about two-
thirds of fiscal spending.  The coup attempt occurred as voting ended in a referendum
on a new constitution that the government hopes will end the
political and economic crisis and the opposition says will allow
Rajoelina to extend his rule. Parliamentary and presidential
elections are scheduled for next year.  No Surrender  “We don’t need to surrender, we’re in the process of
building ourselves up,” General  Noel Rakotonandrasana , one of
the leaders of the coup attempt, said in a telephone interview
today.  They made the declaration “because the country doesn’t
work anymore, and that the change we expected has not been
carried out” by Rajoelina, Rakotonandrasana said. “It’s
because he didn’t bring the changes promised that we need to
replace him.”  The U.S. condemned yesterday’s coup attempt and called on
parties to return to talks. The country is in an “increasingly
precarious humanitarian position” made worse by political
wrangling, the U.S. Embassy in Antananarivo said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “All leaders must return at once to work on a peaceful,
inclusive, consensual, and democratic solution to a political
crisis that continues to cause the unnecessary suffering of
millions of Malagasy,” it said.  Economic Crisis  The Indian Ocean island’s economy will contract 2 percent
this year, the only African economy to shrink, according to
forecasts by the International Monetary Fund. The world’s
biggest exporter of vanilla had a gross domestic product of
$8.55 billion in 2009 and a population of 22.1 million,
according to the  Central Intelligence Agency’s World Factbook .  The island’s Ambatovy mine was scheduled to produce 60,000
metric tons of nickel a year starting from 2011, part owner
Korea Resources Corp. said in August. Nickel rose $365, or 1.7
percent, to $21,915 a metric ton as of 5:23 p.m. today on the
London Metal Exchange.  The opposition boycotted yesterday’s referendum on the
constitution that will reduce the minimum age of the president
to 35 from 40, enabling Rajoelina to stand in future elections.
The new charter doesn’t set a deadline for the handover of power
to a democratically elected government.  The “yes” vote led with 69 percent of the ballot, based
on results from 4,550 of 18,000 polling stations,  Hery Rakotomanana , president of the National Independent Electoral
Commission, said today by phone. Voter turnout was about 46
percent, he said.  Legitimacy  “One of the government’s concerns is the lack of popular
legitimacy,” said Harotsilavo Rakotoson, a lawyer and “No”
campaigner. “They will use a positive result to pretend they
have been elected by Madagascar’s people.”  Rajoelina’s administration reneged on a power-sharing
accord brokered last year by international mediators.  The rebel group of officers, led by ex-Defense Minister  Rakotonandrasanana  and Colonel Charles Randrianasoaviana, the
head of the Special Intervention Force, called for exiles
including Ravalomanana to be allowed back into the country.  Rajoelina denounced the coup attempt on national radio and
said he would not step down.  “Today we have repeated our call to all Madagascar’s
military forces to join us and realize our cause,”
Randrianasoaviana said by phone today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hannah McNeish  in Antananarivo via Johannesburg at 
1934 or  asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 