-- Lagardere May Beat Its Upgraded Guidance on Advertising Strength, CFO Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/lagardere-may-beat-guidance-on-advertising-strength-cfo-says.html
Lagardere SCA  may surpass its
upgraded guidance for the year, thanks to a stronger advertising
market, Chief Financial Officer  Dominique D’Hinnin  said.  France’s largest publishing group is “very comfortable
with the new guidance we gave” after the first half, he told
investors today at a Morgan Stanley conference in Barcelona,
Spain. “It’s possible we will do better.”  The publisher of magazines including Elle and Paris Match
in August said recurring earnings before contributions from
associates and interest and taxes from media businesses would
fall about 5 percent this year compared with a previous forecast
for a decline of about 10 percent. Lagardere last week said its
sales were stable in the first nine months, with advertising
gains offsetting a decline in book publishing revenue.  Chief Executive Officer  Arnaud Lagardere , whose father
Jean-Luc built the company from roots in the defense industry,
is looking to shrink the number of businesses it’s involved in
to focus on its main media brands, while also pushing into
sports marketing.  Lagardere is currently preparing an initial public offering
of its 20 percent stake in pay-TV operator Canal Plus France,
and has signalled it wants to dispose of its 7.5 percent
shareholding in  European Aeronautic Defence and Space , Europe’s
largest aerospace company.  Shares of EADS , which owns Airbus SAS, trade at about 17
euros, down from about 26 euros in early 2007. In addition to
waiting for a higher valuation, Lagardere is likely to wait 12
to 18 months before selling the stake in order to allow the
delivery timeline for the A350 widebody jet to become clear,
D’Hinnin said.  Cash to Shareholders  Beginning in 2006, the Paris-based company was investigated
by French regulators along with  Daimler AG  for insider trading,
linked to alleged advance knowledge of delays in production of
the double-decker A380 jet.  France’s Autorite des Marches Financiers cleared the
companies of wrongdoing late last year after a three-year
investigation.  The successful disposal of the  Canal Plus  and EADS stakes
would likely result in returning some of Lagardere’s cash to
shareholders, either through a special dividend or a share
buyback, D’Hinnin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Barcelona at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  