-- Ahold Profit Misses Estimates on One-Time Costs From Ukrops
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-11-18T08:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/ahold-profit-misses-estimates-on-one-time-costs-from-ukrops-acquisition.html
Royal Ahold NV , the Dutch owner of
U.S. Stop & Shop supermarkets, reported third-quarter profit
that missed estimates as it paid one-time costs related to the
acquisition of the Ukrop’s Super Markets Inc. chain.  Net income fell to 223 million euros ($303 million) from
244 million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based company
said in a statement today. That trailed the 228 million-euro
average estimate of 11 analysts  compiled  by Bloomberg. Shares
fell the most in three months in Amsterdam trading.  The  purchase  of 25 family-owned Ukrop’s stores in Virginia
was Chief Executive Officer  John Rishton ’s first in the U.S., a
region that accounts for about 60 percent of Ahold’s  revenue .
Even as third-quarter sales at U.S. stores open at least a year
rose 0.6 percent, excluding gasoline, the one-time items helped
push down the retail  operating margin  in the country to 3.7
percent from 4.6 percent in the year-earlier period.  “Ukrop’s is a turnaround story,” Rishton told journalists
on a conference call today. “We’re in line with the
expectations when we acquired it and we anticipate it will
return to profitability by the end next year.”  The company’s shares  slid  as much as 3.6 percent to 9.56
euros in Amsterdam, and traded at 9.58 euros at 9:46 a.m. local
time. The drop was the biggest intraday decline since May.
 Ahold , which also operates the biggest grocery store chain in
the Netherlands, has a market valuation of 11.4 billion euros.  Promotions  “If we strip out Ukrop’s sales and mentioned operating
loss of $11 million, we would get a 4.3 percent margin,” ING
Groep NV  analyst   John David Roeg  wrote in a note today. Margins
were lower “as we believe that Ahold was not able to fully pass
on the 1 to 2 percent higher input costs in its selling
prices.”  Ongoing savings will counter higher costs and lower prices,
according to Rishton. He’ll continue to look for targets in the
U.S., where Ahold and rival supermarkets face inflation and
promotional activity was “high,” Rishton said.  Ahold reported a loss of $11 million for the Ukrop’s stores
it bought for $140 million last year as well as one-time
restructuring charges of $10 million and technology integration
costs of $9 million at its U.S. operations. Third-quarter
revenue increased 11 percent to 6.7 billion euros.  Lots of Cash  Rishton takes the helm at  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  in March
and will be succeeded by  Dick Boer , currently Ahold’s chief
operating officer for Europe. Boer will finish a cost-saving
program as Ahold cuts prices to combat slowing consumer
spending. Boer will likely speed up Ahold’s acquisition pace,
analysts have said.  Rishton said he’s still looking forward to his new
assignment, even as Rolls-Royce grapples with the fallout from
an engine blowout on an A380 superjumbo flown by Qantas Airways
Ltd. on Nov. 4.  Sales at stores open at least a year increased 4.5 percent
in the quarter in the Netherlands, as operating profit amounted
to 7 percent of revenue. Ahold’s Rishton said Ahold is “still
committed” to a mid-term target for an underlying operating
margin of 5 percent.  “We have lots of cash and that’s a good place to be in, in
this environment,” said Rishton. “The environment remains
challenging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  