-- Slowing Growth May Create `Headache' For Thailand, Malaysia Central Banks
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-11-19T05:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/thai-malaysian-growth-probably-slowed-reducing-rate-cut-scope.html
Economic expansion in Thailand and
Malaysia probably slowed last quarter after global demand eased,
reducing the scope for policy makers to raise interest rates
even as rising commodity prices increase inflation risks.  The Thai economy grew 7.2 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, after expanding 9.1
percent in the second quarter, according to the median forecast
of 15 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Malaysia’s gross
domestic product rose 5.6 percent after an 8.9 percent expansion
the previous period, the median of 12  estimates  shows.  The International Monetary Fund said last month Asian
policy makers need to move early to exit policy stimulus “to
head off pressures in goods and asset prices.” Malaysia and
Thailand have paused after raising borrowing costs earlier this
year, citing weakening prospects for the world economy, while
Singapore, India and South Korea further tightened monetary
policy this quarter to fight inflation.  “Asian countries are having a headache handling
strengthening currencies and accelerating inflation risk,” said
 Pimonwan Mahujchariyawong , an economist at Kasikorn Research Co.
in Bangkok. “Slower economic growth going forward will make it
harder to raise interest rates, but they have to do it
eventually because rising commodities prices and money inflows
will fuel price pressure and asset bubbles.”  Food Prices  World food prices climbed to the highest level in more than
two years in October as costs rose for meat, dairy products,
cereals, cooking oil and sugar, according to the United Nations’
Food and Agriculture Organization.  The U.S. Federal Reserve said this month it will purchase
$600 billion of Treasuries to spur the world’s largest economy,
a move that policy makers from Asia to South America said could
depress the dollar and spark capital flight to emerging markets.  Malaysia and Thailand will report third-quarter GDP data on
Nov. 22.  “In the Malaysian economy, recent indicators on  exports 
and external-related sectors affirmed the earlier expectations
for growth to moderate in the third quarter,” the central bank
said Nov. 12. “Nevertheless, domestic demand has provided
strong support to growth. Going forward, overall growth will
continue to be well supported by domestic economic activity.”  Bank Negara Malaysia  left borrowing costs unchanged for a
second consecutive meeting this month and pledged “greater
vigilance” against potential risks posed by capital inflows.
Such investments have contributed to the ringgit’s 9.6 percent
appreciation this year and pushed the stock market to a record
level.  Currency Effect  While a stronger currency results in cheaper imports, it
also makes the country’s overseas shipments more expensive.
Malaysia’s exports rose at the slowest pace in 10 months in
September as shipments to the U.S. and China eased.  The Southeast Asian economy, whose products include IOI
Corp. palm oil and Intel Corp. computer chips, may experience
some deceleration in the final quarter of 2010, International
Trade & Industry Minister  Mustapa Mohamed  said last month. The
economy is forecast by the government to grow 7 percent this
year and as much as 6 percent in 2011.  Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said Nov. 12 he is
“still worried” about gains in the baht, which earlier this
month strengthened to the highest level in 13 years. The
currency has appreciated more than 11 percent this year, the
best performance in Asia, raising concern that Thailand’s goods
may become more expensive relative to its regional rivals.  Exporters Complain  General Motors Co ., Ford Motor Co. and  Siam Cement Pcl  are
among companies that cited the currency as a threat to shipments
from Thailand, an exporter of cars, rice and electronics.
Thailand’s export growth slowed in October as cooling global
expansion and the baht’s strength damped demand for the nation’s
goods, a report showed today.  Thai  consumer confidence  fell for the first time in six
months in October as the baht surged and the nation’s worst
floods in five decades devastated agricultural land, a report
showed this month. Abhisit has said the flooding may curb Thai
GDP growth this year by 0.3 percentage point.  In contrast, Taiwan’s economy expanded faster than
economists estimated last quarter, adding to the case for a
third increase in interest rates this year to prevent a property
bubble. GDP climbed 9.8 percent in the three months through
September from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said
yesterday. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 17
economists was 8.34 percent.  Capital Measures  Thailand last month removed a 15 percent tax exemption for
foreigners on income from domestic bonds and Bank of Thailand
Governor  Prasarn Trairatvorakul  said Oct. 21 the bank is
studying additional measures to reduce the volatility of the
baht.  Sean Callow , a Sydney-based senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. and Kasikorn Research’s Pimonwan expect
the Thai central bank to hold the nation’s benchmark interest
rate at 1.75 percent for a second meeting on Dec. 1 to avoid
attracting more money inflows and adding pressure on the baht.  Prasarn said last month that while inflation isn’t under
“immediate pressure,” there’s a risk that price increases may
accelerate to the upper end of the central bank’s target next
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  