-- Thai, Vietnamese Nuclear Plans Face Delays on Labor, Wood Mackenzie Says
-- B y   A n n   K o h
-- 2010-11-18T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/thai-vietnamese-nuclear-plans-face-delays-wood-mackenzie-says.html
Southeast Asia’s first nuclear power
plants, planned in Vietnam and Thailand by 2020, may be delayed
by at least eight years because of a shortage of skilled workers
and cheaper coal production, according to  Wood Mackenzie Ltd.   The two countries will take longer to approve funding for
nuclear plants compared with coal-fired ones, as well as to
implement safety measures, Graham Tyler, head of the southeast
Asian gas and power division at Wood Mackenzie, an Edinburgh,
Scotland-based energy consultant, said in an interview in
Singapore. The first plants are likely to be delayed until 2028
at the earliest, he said.  “The key element is also the financing of these projects,
which we feel will be delayed because it is going to be more
expensive than coal,” said Tyler. “It’s not just about
building a power station. You need to get trained engineers who
can operate it, inspect it, make sure that it’s safe.”  Southeast Asia is seeking to diversify its energy sources
as the region’s natural gas fields mature and electricity
consumption rises. Thailand intends to start operating its first
two nuclear power plants from 2020 with a capacity of 1,000
megawatts each, the state power authority said last year.
Vietnam plans to start two units in the south of the country in
2020 and wants to build a further 13 plants with a capacity of
16,000 megawatts by 2030, the government said in June.  Demand for electricity in Southeast Asia is forecast to
increase 6 percent a year over the next two decades, according
to Wood Mackenzie. Total capacity may climb to 308 gigawatts by
2030 from 108 gigawatts this year, Tyler said.  Nuclear Safety  Thailand, which plans to put in a nuclear safety regulatory
framework in the four years starting 2011, may not complete this
step until 2026, according to Wood Mackenzie estimates.  Vietnam may not be able to afford paying “a premium” like
the United Arab Emirates is doing to import experienced workers,
and has yet to set up the training programs that China and
Russia have, Tyler said.  The U.A.E., whose economy was three times the size of
Vietnam’s last year, awarded a $18.6 billion contract last
December to Korea Electric Power Corp. to build four nuclear
plants by 2020.  “You can import talent, but you’re going to have to pay a
premium,” said Tyler. “The U.A.E. is a lot richer than the
countries in this region, and so they’re buying it in. Southeast
Asia might not be able to afford that.”  The region will rely on coal power plants to meet its
electricity needs as long as nuclear facilities remain
unfeasible. About 35 percent of the region’s power capacity will
come from coal by 2030, while nuclear will make up just 2
percent, Tyler said.  Vietnam and Thailand will produce one-third of their
electricity from coal in 2030 from 17 to 20 percent currently,
Tyler said. Vietnam’s gas-based power capacity will drop to 25
percent of its total generation from more than 40 percent in
2010, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  