-- AirAsia Seeks Airbus Decision on A320 Revamp This Year
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-11-18T17:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/airasia-hopes-for-airbus-decision-on-re-engined-a320-this-year.html
AirAsia Bhd. , Southeast Asia’s
biggest discount airline, said it’s interested in buying a re-
engined version of the Airbus SAS A320 and that the planemaker
should decide this year whether to go ahead with a revamp.  Airbus and rival Boeing Co. are weighing upgrades to their
single-aisle planes after postponing introduction of replacement
models until as late as 2025. Southwest Airlines Co. and Ryanair
Holdings Plc and are among carriers pressing for engine revamps
that could reduce fuel consumption by more than 10 percent.  “We need Airbus to hurry up and make a decision -- I hope
by the end of the year,” AirAsia Chief Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes  said in an interview in Paris. “Both Airbus and Boeing
have taken a long time deciding about the next generation.”  The European and U.S. planemakers will face competition
from new models introduced by Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica
SA, Bombardier Inc. and Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China “if
they wait any longer,” Fernandes said.  Malaysia-based AirAsia, which has signed up for 10 Airbus
A350 long-range jets, may buy more to serve additional European
cities, said the CEO, who spoke after a news conference on long-
haul arm AirAsia X’s introduction of flights from Kuala Lumpar
to Paris, its second route to the region after London.  The French service will commence on Feb. 14, with fares
averaging 180 euros each way, he said.  The Asian carrier, which has an all-Airbus fleet, is also
in discussion with the Toulouse, France-based manufacturer about
the possible purchase of A330-200 widebody-planes, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  