-- Taiwan's 9.8% Growth Affirms an Asian Expansion Stoking Inflows
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/taiwan-s-economy-grew-9-8-adding-rate-pressure.html
Taiwan’s economy expanded faster
than estimated, underscoring the strength of Asia’s recovery and
the risk of asset bubbles as more capital flows into the region.  Gross domestic product  rose 9.8 percent in the three months
through September from a year earlier, after climbing a revised
12.86 percent in the second quarter, the statistics bureau said
in Taipei yesterday. The  median  estimate in a Bloomberg News
 survey  of 17 economists was for 8.34 percent expansion.  Central bank Governor  Perng Fai-nan  has signaled he will
limit appreciation in the local dollar as capital inflows
attracted by Asia’s growth risk hurting exports and pumping up
asset prices. South Korea yesterday said it will back a tax on
foreigners investing in its bonds to curb currency volatility.  “The central bank is expected to take action to stabilize
the Taiwan dollar as any quick appreciation in the local
currency could be a risk to exports,” said  Tigr Cheng , an
economist with Polaris Securities Co. in Taipei.  The Taiwan dollar rose 1.3 percent to NT$30.340 against its
U.S. counterpart at the midday break today, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. The currency has climbed 5.2 percent in the past
three months, the second-best performance in Asia excluding
Japan. The benchmark Taiex stock index advanced 0.3 percent.  ‘Robust Exports’  Taiwan’s GDP is on course to grow 9.32 percent this year,
one of the world’s fastest rates, according to projections by
the International Monetary Fund in October. Singapore underlined
Asia’s leadership of the global recovery by yesterday
forecasting a record 15 percent expansion in 2010, even as
Europe’s debt woes and elevated U.S. unemployment linger.  “The numbers coming out from Taiwan and the rest of Asia
show the slowdown in economic growth is less than we expected,
while the island’s robust exports point to continuing strong
expansion for the rest of the year,” said  Frances Cheung , a
Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB.  Emerging nations from South Africa to Brazil to Thailand
have taken steps to try and limit currency gains this year,
complaining that the U.S. Federal Reserve’s plan to inject $600
billion into the world’s biggest economy threatens to depress
the dollar and intensify capital flight to their markets.  Investment Curbs  Taiwan’s central bank said Oct. 19 it will step into the
foreign-exchange market when the currency “overshoots.” The
island this month also restored curbs on foreign investment in
its debt originally scrapped in 1995. South Korea’s government
yesterday said it will back legislation reinstating a 14 percent
tax on interest income from treasury and central bank bonds.  Perng and the policy board have raised interest rates twice
this year to try and prevent property speculation. Record-high
home prices in Taipei are set to rise for the seventh year in
2010, the island’s biggest housing broker Sinyi Realty Co. said
in September.  The benchmark interest rate must rise to 2.875 percent by
the end of next year from the current level of 1.5 percent to
prevent a housing bubble, Stanley Su, head of research for the
property agency, said last month.  Polaris’ Cheng expects a 0.125 percentage-point rate
increase in December and in each quarter next year.  ‘Yielding Results’  Mortgage curbs introduced in June, including a 70 percent
cap on loans for second homes in the Taipei metropolitan area,
are “yielding results,” the central bank said in October. The
median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News is for a
2.25 percent benchmark rate by the end of next year.  China, Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore have also tried to
curb property price gains. The IMF yesterday urged Hong Kong to
take further measures to reduce the risk of a deflationary bust.  Taiwan’s exports climbed 21.9 percent in October, rising
for the 12th straight month, while  unemployment  fell to a 21-
month low of 5.08 percent in September. Overseas shipments are
equivalent to about two-thirds of the $355.5 billion economy.  Foreign demand has boosted earnings this year at exporters
including Hsinchu-based  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. ,
the world’s largest maker of chips designed by other companies.  Economic growth is expected to be 4.7 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, while consumer prices are
set to rise 0.98 percent in 2010 and 1.85 percent next year, the
statistics bureau said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .
Weiyi Lim in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  