-- Malaysia Has Little Room for Expanding Palm-Oil Production, Minister Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-11-18T11:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/malaysia-has-little-room-for-palm-oil-expansion-plantation-minister-says.html
Malaysia’s limited room for
expanding palm oil cultivation means that industry growth will
have to come from improving productivity, its plantation
minister said.  About 4.6 million hectares (11.4 million acres) of the
southeast Asian nation’s 32 million hectares are planted with
oil palms, Plantation Industries and Commodities Minister
 Bernard Dompok  said last night in London. About 58 percent of
the country is forested and the government has a commitment to
maintain at least half of all land as natural forest.  “I do not see any further large-scale planting of oil palm
in Malaysia,” Dompok said during a round-table discussion at
the policy analyst Chatham House. “There may be pockets which
can be done by people in rural areas that could be turned into
palm oil but these are not very much.”  Dompok was trying to allay concerns from environmental
groups such as  Greenpeace  that expansion of palm oil plantations
in Malaysia and especially in Indonesia is leading to the
further destruction of forests and increasing emissions of
greenhouse gases blamed for global warming.  Malaysia, the second-biggest producer of palm oil, this
year will produce about 17.6 million tons of crude palm oil and
export 15.8 million tons of the substance, which is used in
foods and biofuels, Dompok said. Annual productivity per hectare
is about 4 tons and this could be increased to 17 tons, he said.  “We can increase the yield per hectare by planting new
varieties and new clones,” Kalyana Sundram, deputy chief
executive officer of the  Malaysian Palm Oil Council , said in an
interview in London. “Because of the lack of new land to
cultivate oil palms, if you want to be a major player in the
industry, that’s the way to go -- increase the yields.”  Power from Waste  Dompok and Indonesian Vice Minister of Agriculture  Bayu Krisnamurthi  on Nov. 15-16 met with European Union officials to
rally support for palm oil. A new European  directive  governing
the use of renewable energy “discriminates” against palm oil
compared to other oil crops, they said in a joint statement.  The directive promotes the use of oils in biofuels that cut
greenhouse-gas emissions by 35 percent, and palm oil is
classified as leading to a cut of just 19 percent. Malaysian
Palm Oil Board Director-General Choo Yuen May told the round
table meeting that the correct figure is 36 percent because
about a third less nitrogen-based fertilizer is used in the
Malaysian industry than the EU factored into its assumptions.  Dompok said he’s also trying to promote the burning of
waste products from palm oil production to generate electricity.
Domestic power prices would have to rise to 35 cents a kilowatt-
hour from 21 cents for such a plan to be economical, he said.  “I would like all these palm oil effluents to be used for
electrification,” Dompok said. “I am trying to present to the
Cabinet that we need incentives to clean up the oil palm
industry. We need tariffs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  