-- Americans More Likely to Skip Health Care and Battle Insurers, Survey Says
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2010-11-18T16:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/americans-more-likely-to-skip-health-care-for-cost-survey-says.html
Americans are more likely to go
without health care because of cost and report the most disputes
with insurance companies compared with consumers surveyed in 11
industrialized nations such as Germany and Switzerland.  One of three U.S. consumers said they failed to see a
doctor when sick, fill a prescription or get recommended care
because of out-of-pocket costs, according to a survey released
today by the  Commonwealth Fund . Almost one-third of those
surveyed reported difficulty filling out paperwork or said
insurers had denied a claim over medical bills or paid less than
anticipated.  Complex insurance benefits and the lack of transparency in
medical costs and coverage contribute to Americans’ negative
feelings toward insurance, wrote Cathy Schoen, lead author of
the report and a senior vice president with the New York-based
nonprofit health policy and research organization.  “We spend far more on health care than any of these
countries, but this study highlights the pervasive gaps in U.S.
health insurance that put families’ health and budgets at
risk,” Schoen said in a statement accompanying the report,
which was also published today on the website of the journal
 Health Affairs .  The survey covered 19,700 adults in the U.S., U.K., France,
Germany, Canada, Sweden, Norway, Australia, New Zealand, the
Netherlands and Switzerland.  The U.S. has the highest per capita spending on health care
of the 11 countries examined, reaching $7,538, according to 2008
data from the Paris-based  Organization for Economic Co-operation
and Development . The closest in spending was Norway with a per
person expenditure of $5,003. The lowest per capita spending was
in New Zealand at $2,683.  The survey found 33 percent of 2,501 Americans said they went
without treatment or didn’t fill a prescription, compared with
25 percent of 1,005 Germans and 5 percent of 1,511 British
consumers. While 31 percent of Americans said they fought with
insurers over medical bills, 23 percent of the French and
Germans surveyed said they had similar experiences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pat Wechsler  in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  