-- Hands Says Returns to Fall, Attacks ‘Pass the Parcel’
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2010-11-18T17:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/hands-says-buyout-returns-will-diminish-deplores-pass-the-parcel-deals.html
British financier  Guy Hands  said
returns from leveraged buyouts will decline as firms vie to
spend $1 trillion of unspent funds.  “There is an extraordinary overhang of uninvested capital
in private equity right now,” Hands said at the SuperInvestor
conference in Paris today. “There is simply too much money
available for all of it to be able to find deals which will
offer returns at the 20 percent mark.”  Firms may struggle to spend $1 trillion and may only be
able to invest about 300 billion euros ($409 billion) to 500
billion euros over the next four years, he said. Returns after
fees may decline to between 8 percent and 9 percent from more
than 20 percent, Hands told the conference.  “The only way as an industry we can invest these enormous
sums will be to go back to doing lots of pre-packaged deals
provided to private equity firms by investment banks, and doing
even more pass-the-parcel deals, just to get all this money out
the door,” Hands said. “In my 30 years of investing, whenever
I have seen deals done just to get the money out the door, it
ends badly.”  Secondary buyouts, where private equity firms sell
companies to other firms, accounted for a record 46 percent of
all LBOs in Europe by value in the first 10 months of this year,
according to London-based research firm Preqin Ltd.  Citigroup Decision  Hands this month lost a court battle against  Citigroup
Inc. , which he claimed tricked him into overpaying for EMI Group
Ltd. in 2007. Analysts say he may lose control of the British
record label and Citigroup may break the company into pieces and
sell it off. The New York-based bank provided $4.8 billion in
loans to finance the acquisition.  “As I said to my dentist last week after a morning of new
fillings and a lot of drilling, ‘it is so nice to be here, so
much more enjoyable having one’s teeth drilled than appearing as
a witness in a U.S. court,’” Hands said today. “Regardless of
the court result, all I can say is there is always the next
deal, and that is my main focus now.”  While Hands said he and his firm “would have looked like
geniuses” had they not done the EMI deal, he said he still has
a chance to raise a new fund.  “EMI is what EMI is,” he said. “There’s nothing we can
do about that. We can do two things. We can invest the rest of
our money well and we can look after the rest of the portfolio.
If we do those two things well, we’ll raise another fund. If we
do them badly, we won’t. It’s as simple as that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  