-- Mariners Starter Hernandez Wins American League Cy Young With 13 Victories
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-11-18T20:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/mariners-starter-hernandez-wins-american-league-cy-young-with-13-victories.html
The Seattle Mariners’  Felix Hernandez  won the American League Cy Young Award after recording
just 13 victories, the lowest in history for a full-season
starter who was picked as his league’s top pitcher.  Hernandez, who led the AL with a 2.27 earned run average
and 249 2/3 innings pitched as he compiled a 13-12 record,
received 21 of 28 first-place votes and a total of 167 points in
balloting by the  Baseball Writers’ Association of America .  “I think I deserve it,” Hernandez said on a conference
call with reporters. “I think the Cy Young’s got to be for the
more dominant pitcher in the league, not for the one who won 20
games or 21 games.”  The Tampa Bay Rays’  David Price  was the runner-up,
receiving four first-place votes and 111 points. The New York
Yankees’  CC Sabathia , the 2007 Cy Young winner who led the
league in wins with a 21-7 record this year, was third with
three first-place votes and 102 points.  Pitchers get seven points for first-place votes, four for
second, three for third, two for fourth and one for fifth in the
balloting that was completed prior to Major League Baseball’s
postseason.  The previous low in victories for a Cy Young-winning
starter in a full season was 15 for the San Francisco Giants’
 Tim Lincecum , who went 15-7 last year to win the NL award for
the second straight time.  Low Wins  The Los Angeles Dodgers’  Fernando Valenzuela  won it after
going 13-7 in the strike-shortened 1981 season. Eight relief
pitchers, four in each league, have won the award with 13 or
fewer wins.  Eric Gagne  had the lowest victory total for a Cy
Young winner, going 2-3 with 55 saves for the Los Angeles
Dodgers in 2003.  Hernandez, 24, got little offensive support this year from
a Mariners’ team that had the worst record in the AL, going 61-
101 to finish 29 games behind the AL West-winning Texas Rangers.  The right-hander was second in the AL with 232 strikeouts
and first in wins above replacement, or WAR, according to
 Baseball-Reference.com . WAR is a metric that considers how many
runs a pitcher allowed versus how many runs a replacement, such
as someone just above Triple-A status, would allow in the same
circumstances.  “The first time when I heard that I won the Cy Young my
mind was, ‘Really? Really?’” Hernandez said. “I asked one more
time, ‘I win the Cy Young?’”  Through Tears  With confirmation came tears, he said, as Hernandez
embraced family and friends who were awaiting word with him in
his native Venezuela.  Hernandez went 19-5 in 2009 and finished second in Cy Young
voting to the Kansas City Royals’  Zack Greinke .  “I started believing after the season when I look at my
numbers and I said, ‘Wow, what great numbers I put up this
season. Better than last year,’” Hernandez said.  The only other Mariner to claim the Cy Young was  Randy Johnson , who won it in 1995 before moving to the National League
and winning it every season from 1999 to 2002 for the Arizona
Diamondbacks.  The Philadelphia Phillies’  Roy Halladay  won the NL Cy Young
two days ago in a unanimous vote.  Today was the third time a Venezuelan was given the honor.
 Johan Santana  won in 2004 and 2006 for the Minnesota Twins.  Hernadez said there was nothing he can do in future seasons
to improve.  “I have to do the same thing that I did this year and the
year before,” he said. “There’s nothing you can do better than
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 