-- Mark-to-Make-Believe Perfumes Rotten Bank Loans: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2010-11-18T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/mark-to-make-believe-perfumes-rotten-loans-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Just when it looked like U.S. banks
were starting to reveal the true values of their loans, it turns
out there’s an accounting loophole they can exploit to keep bad
news buried.  Ever since new rules took effect last year, lenders have
been required to disclose the “fair value” of their  loans  each
quarter. The results have been something of a mystery, though.
Some banks show large disparities between these numbers and the
loan values on their balance sheets. Others don’t.  One big reason: Thanks to the loophole, they don’t all have
to follow the same definition of fair value. My guess is most
investors don’t know this. Often lenders’ disclosures don’t
clearly explain which approach they’re using, or that companies
have a choice. Unsuspecting readers of their financial
statements easily could be misled.  Consider the recent events at Wilmington Trust Corp. The
Delaware bank on Nov. 1 said it would sell itself to M&T Bank
Corp. for $351 million, which was 46 percent less than its
 stock-market value  at the time. In August, Wilmington had  said 
the fair value of its loans was only $40 million less than their
$8 billion balance-sheet value as of June 30.  That term, fair value, was supposed to have been given a
uniform definition under a FASB standard issued in 2006 called
 Statement 157 . For financial assets, including loans, the FASB
defined it as the sale price that would be received in an
orderly, arm’s length transaction. This is known as an “exit
price.”  Make-Believe Numbers  Wilmington didn’t use that definition for its loan
disclosure. The loophole instead let Wilmington show an “entry
price” estimate of how much it would cost to originate similar
loans, rather than what its loans would be worth in a sale. That
proved to be more like mark-to-make-believe than mark-to-market.
Wilmington’s investors got blindsided as a result.  Wilmington disclosed its sale plans the same day it said
its third-quarter loss widened to $365.3 million from $5.9
million a year earlier. It also said M&T had identified $506
million of additional credit losses. It’s unfathomable to think
that none of those losses started happening until last quarter.
An exit-price approach should have provided an early warning. A
Wilmington spokesman,  Bill Benintende , declined to comment.  Lenders generally aren’t required to show their loans at
fair value on their balance sheets. Loans are usually carried
instead at amortized cost, which includes adjustments for
principal repayments and write-offs, while fair-value numbers
appear only in the footnotes.  Footnote Hell  The tricky part for investors is deciphering the technical,
often impenetrable jargon companies use to describe their
valuation methods. For this column I reviewed the third-quarter
footnotes for all 24 companies in the  KBW Bank Index . Most don’t
explicitly say if they’re showing exit prices for their loan
values. To be sure, even when they use the loophole method, that
doesn’t necessarily mean they have anything to hide.  The loophole for loan-value disclosures came about by
accident. Before 2006, different definitions of fair value
existed throughout the accounting rules. The FASB had promised
Statement 157 would bring “a single definition” of the term
and greater consistency in companies’ measurements.  The board missed some spots, though, including one in its
 standard  on fair-value disclosures for financial instruments.
Those rules show two approaches for loans, one of which still
uses a pre-2006 definition for fair value. The exception remains
in place today. (Before last year, such footnote disclosures
were required only annually, not quarterly.)  Hiding Risk  Specifically, the loophole lets companies estimate loan
values by “discounting the future cash flows using the current
rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with
similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities.”
This is the approach Wilmington used, the bank’s disclosures
show. Unlike exit prices, this approach doesn’t include certain
factors such as liquidity risk.  Compare that with Regions Financial Corp.’s disclosures.
Regions said its loan portfolio was  worth  $69.1 billion as of
Sept. 30, 12.8 percent less than the carrying amount on its
 balance sheet . Regions said its method “assumes sale of the
loans to a third-party financial investor.”  In other words, Regions shows an exit price. SunTrust Banks
Inc. and Bank of America Corp. do, too. SunTrust  said  its loan
portfolio was worth 4.8 percent less than its $112 billion
carrying amount. Bank of America said its loans were  worth 
slightly less than its balance sheet showed. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. said its loans’ fair value was a few billion dollars higher.
JPMorgan’s number seemed to be an exit price. A company
spokesman,  Joe Evangelisti , declined to comment.  This Is Disclosure?  Commerce Bancshares Inc.  and People’s United Financial Inc.
showed so-called fair values that exceeded their loans’ carrying
amounts. Both also expressly disclosed that they don’t show
exit-price measurements. There’s no telling what the loans would
be worth in a sale. At least they’re upfront about it.  Citigroup said its loans were worth 2.5 percent less than
their $608.2 billion carrying amount as of Sept. 30. I couldn’t
tell from its disclosure if that was an exit price. A company
spokeswoman,  Shannon Bell , declined to say.  Wells Fargo & Co.’s loan disclosure doesn’t show an exit
price, said  Mary Eshet , a company spokeswoman. Wells said its
loans’ fair value was $10.3 billion less their $716.6 billion
carrying amount. Eshet declined to say whether an exit price
would have shown a higher or lower value.  The FASB should close this loophole immediately.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  