-- Marriage Rate Falls to About 50% As People Say Institution is Obsolete
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-11-18T19:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/marriage-rate-falls-to-about-50-as-people-say-institution-is-obsolete.html
About half of all adults in the U.S.
are married, down from 72 percent in 1960, while 4 in 10 people
consider marriage obsolete and most say their definition of
family has changed, according  to a poll .  In a telephone survey of 2,691 Americans by the  Pew
Research Center  in Washington and  Time magazine , 86 percent of
respondents said a single parent and child constitute a family.
Four out of 5 respondents said an unmarried man and woman with a
child also were a family, and 63 percent said a gay or lesbian
couple raising a youngster could be described the same way.  The findings come with a “mix of unease and acceptance”
as respondents were evenly split as to whether the new family
units were good, bad or didn’t make a difference for society,
the authors of the report said. Young adults, non-religious
people, liberals and blacks, were more likely to be accepting of
the new arrangements than their counterparts. Most people, no
matter how they defined family, said it was central to their
lives and more important than career, social life or community.  “The survey finds that Americans have an expansive
definition of what constitutes a family,” the report said.
“And the vast majority of adults consider their own family to
be the most important, most satisfying element of their lives.”  The sharp decline in marriage is most pronounced among
young adults. In 2008, 26 percent of 20-somethings were  married 
compared with 68 percent in 1960. The number of young people who
will ever marry “is an open question,” the report found.  ‘More Tolerant’  “Younger Americans are much more open to the changes and
more tolerant of alternative arrangements,” the report said.
Almost half of those under 30 said that the changes to family
arrangements are a good thing.  As marriage has declined, cohabitation has become more
widespread. Living with a partner has doubled since 1990, and 44
percent of adults say they have cohabited at some point, usually
as a step toward marriage.  Among respondents who were married, 93 percent said love
was the most important reason to tie the knot.  Marriage rates also were higher among those with greater
education levels.  In 2008, 64 percent of college graduates were married
compared with 48 percent of those with a high school diploma or
less, the survey showed. In 1960, 76 percent of those who
graduated from college were married, compared with 72 percent of
adults who didn’t attend an institute of higher education.  “These findings suggest that those with less income and
education are opting out of marriage not because they don’t
value the institution or aspire to its benefits, but because they
may doubt that they (or a potential spouse) can meet the
standards they impose on marriage,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 