-- Harry Potter Look-Alikes Flee Death Eaters in ‘Hallows’: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-11-18T03:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/harry-potter-look-alikes-flee-death-eaters-in-dull-hallows-rick-warner.html
After destroying one of Lord
Voldemort’s Horcruxes in “ Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows
-- Part 1 ,” Ron Weasley proclaims, “Just think, only three to
go.”  Potter fans have just one film to go in the highest-
grossing ($5.4 billion) series of all time. And that’s probably
good news, considering that the seventh installment is bloated
and boring.  “Deathly Hallows,”, the third Potter movie directed by
 David Yates , drags on for 146 minutes -- a half-hour too long.
Only the most hard-core devotees will be able to sit through it
without getting fidgety.  In Part 1 -- the last book in  J.K. Rowling ’s mega-selling
series is being broken into two films -- Harry ( Daniel Radcliffe ), Ron ( Rupert Grint ) and Hermione ( Emma Watson ) try to
destroy the Horcruxes, those magical objects that make Voldemort
( Ralph Fiennes ) immortal. They don’t have much time because the
noseless Dark Lord and his Death Eaters are out to capture and
kill Harry.  To confuse them, “Mad-Eye” Moody uses a magic potion to
create six Harry look-alikes. Along with the real Harry, they
flee through London’s streets and tunnels -- on brooms, winged
horses and a motorcycle -- in one of the film’s most harrowing
scenes.  Bulging Eyeball  By moving away from Hogwarts and other fantasy settings to
modern London, the film loses much of the other-worldly
atmosphere that made the stories a sensation. The more realistic
the movie gets, the less interesting it is.  Many of the favorite characters from earlier episodes
return in “Deathly Hallows,” including spooky-eyed witch
Bellatrix Lestrange ( Helena  Bonham Carter), half-giant Hogwarts
caretaker Rubeus Hagrid ( Robbie Coltrane ) and “Mad-Eye”
( Brendan Gleeson ), the wizard whose pirate patch features a
bulging eyeball.  Among the newcomers are stern-faced Minister of Magic Rufus
Scrimgeour ( Bill Nighy ) and long-haired editor Xenophilius
Lovegood ( Rhys Ifans ), whose tabloid magazine makes the National
Enquirer look like Reader’s Digest.  With characters falling left and right, not everyone will
be back for next July’s finale, when Harry and Voldemort face
off in an apocalyptic battle. The ultimate winners, of course,
will be Rowling, Warner Bros. and anyone else connected to Harry
Potter’s gold mine.  “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows -- Part 1,” from
Warner Bros. Pictures, opens tomorrow across the U.S. Rating:
*1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 