-- Stocks Snap Slide, Commodities Rebound as Irish Bailout Talks Bolster Euro
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d
-- 2010-11-19T00:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/asian-stocks-oil-snap-four-day-slides-irish-bailout-talks-bolster-euro.html
Stocks surged and commodities
snapped a two-day retreat as Ireland moved closer to a European
Union-led financial bailout and data on jobless claims and
manufacturing bolstered optimism in the U.S. economy. General
Motors Co. rallied as it returned to the stock market.  The MSCI World Index gained 1.6 percent and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.5 percent, the biggest advances for
both in two weeks. The euro climbed 0.8 percent against the
dollar. Costs to insure Ireland’s bonds from default sank. Ten-
year Treasury yields increased two basis points to 2.90 percent.
Silver rose 5.2 percent and oil added 1.8 percent. After the U.S.
close, S&P 500 futures added 0.1 percent at 7 p.m. in New York
while Japanese and Australian stocks rallied in early trading.  Stocks are recovering from a rout that erased more than $2
trillion from global  equities  since the start of last week.
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said the government may
accept aid from the EU and International Monetary Fund. Fewer
workers than forecast filed for U.S. jobless benefits, while
Philadelphia-area manufacturing topped estimates and GM raised
$20 billion in an initial public offering.  “The euro zone is not going to be a bankruptcy, a disaster,
a contagion,” said  Hank Smith , chief investment officer at
Haverford Trust Co., which manages about $6.5 billion in Radnor,
Pennsylvania. “In the U.S., any improvement in the jobs picture
is going to be very well received by the market. In addition,
there was high demand for GM’s IPO, which is a good reflection
that capital markets are in better shape.”  GM IPO  The S&P 500 advanced for a second day, rebounding from an
almost one-month low reached Nov. 16. GM, which went bankrupt
last year after almost a century on the New York Stock Exchange,
advanced as much as 9.1 percent as it returned to public trading.
Alcoa Inc., Boeing Co. and Caterpillar Inc. rose at least 2.3
percent and led the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  up 173.35
points, or 1.6 percent, to 11,181.23 for its biggest gain since
Nov. 4.  The S&P 500 lost 3.9 percent through yesterday after
closing at a two-year high on Nov. 5, including a 1.6 percent
retreat on Nov. 16. The drop is probably temporary and the S&P
500 is unlikely to fall more than 8 percent from its 2010 high,
said Jeffrey deGraaf, the head of technical analysis at ISI
Group Inc., in an interview.  The historical tendency of stocks to rise between now and
the end of January, and leadership from commodity, consumer
discretionary and industrial companies during the retreat,
support a bullish outlook, deGraaf said.  Economy Watch  Applications for unemployment insurance payments rose by
2,000 to 439,000 in the week ended Nov. 13, Labor Department
figures showed. Claims were projected to rise to 441,000,
according to the median economist estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
The total number of people collecting unemployment insurance
dropped to the lowest level in two years, while those receiving
extended payments climbed.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in
November to the highest level this year. The Fed Bank of
Philadelphia’s  general economic index  rose to 22.5 from 1 a
month earlier. Readings greater than zero signal expansion. The
gauge was forecast to increase to 5, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  A separate report from the Conference Board showed an index
of leading indicators rose for a fourth month.  Europe, Asian Stocks  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rallied 1.4 percent as eight
companies rose for every one that fell. Air France-KLM Group
surged 5.7 percent after Europe’s biggest airline raised its
full-year earnings target. SABMiller Plc, maker of Miller High
Life and Grolsch beer, rallied 5.1 percent after saying profit
increased 15 percent. Royal Ahold NV declined 3.5 percent as
third-quarter results missed analysts’ forecasts.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  added 1.4 percent, snapping
four days of losses. Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore-oil
producer, jumped 4.9 percent in Hong Kong. David Jones Ltd.,
Australia’s second-largest department store operator, rose 4
percent after reaffirming its profit guidance. Showa Denko K.K.,
which makes ceramics and electronic materials, climbed 6.3
percent after UBS AG recommended buying the stock.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold Irish
10-year securities instead of benchmark German bunds  fell  13
basis points to 541 basis points. Credit-default swaps on
Ireland’s bonds sank 21.5 basis points to 502.5, according to
CMA. Allied Irish Banks Plc’s subordinated notes tumbled on
speculation a bailout will impose losses on bondholders.  Ireland Debt Talks  Ireland will probably seek a bailout from the EU and IMF
worth “tens of billions” of euros to rescue its battered banks,
central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  told Irish state
broadcaster RTE today.  The IMF has not received any financial aid request from
Ireland and sent a team of about dozen people to Dublin to hold
technical discussions with authorities on measures that may be
needed to “support financial stability,” a fund official said.
IMF Director of External Relations  Caroline Atkinson  at a press
briefing in Washington today declined to say what amount of aid
Ireland might need.  The Greek 10-year spread over German bunds  narrowed  14
basis points to 889 basis points, or 8.89 percentage points.
Spanish bonds declined, with the yield on the 10-year debt
climbing 10 basis points to 4.72 percent, as the government sold
3.65 billion euros ($5 billion) of 10- and 30-year bonds.  Treasury Auctions  The yield on the seven-year Treasury note  rose  five basis
points to 2.18 percent. The Treasury announced it will sell $35
billion of two-year notes, $35 billion in five-year debt and $29
billion of seven-year securities during three days starting Nov.
22, matching results of a Bloomberg News survey of primary
dealers. The $99 billion total is unchanged from the amount of
the October sales of the securities. President  Barack Obama  has
increased U.S. marketable debt to a record $8.54 trillion.  The euro strengthened to $1.3643 and gained 1.2 percent to
113.91 yen. The Japanese currency weakened against 15 of 16 of
its most-traded counterparts, while the dollar depreciated
against all but the yen and Swiss franc. The Dollar Index, which
tracks the currency against six major peers including the euro,
lost 0.6 percent to 78.575 for its biggest retreat since Nov. 4.  The S&P GSCI index of 24 raw materials rose 2 percent, the
first increase in three days. Sugar, silver and cotton climbed
at least 4 percent. Gold futures for December delivery advanced
1.2 percent to $1,353 an ounce. Crude oil’s jump to $81.85 a
barrel was the first increase in a week. A U.S. report yesterday
showed crude supplies unexpectedly dropped the most since August
2009 and prices held above technical support at $80 a barrel.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced for the first time
in seven days, climbing 1.6 percent. Developing-nation
currencies strengthened, led by a 1.3 percent gain in Malaysia’s
ringgit against the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 