-- Mauritius's Fiscal Deficit in Budget May Widen on Weaker Economic Growth
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2010-11-18T11:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/mauritius-s-fiscal-deficit-in-budget-may-widen-on-weaker-economic-growth.html
(Corrects to make clear Europe accounts for two-thirds of
tourists in fourth paragraph.)  Mauritius’s Finance Minister  Pravind Jugnauth  will probably forecast a wider fiscal deficit for 2011,
slower economic growth and faster inflation when he announces
the budget tomorrow in parliament.  “The main economic indicators will deteriorate,” Eric Ng,
economist and director of consultants PluriConseil, said in a
phone interview today from Port Louis, the capital.  Growth in the Indian Ocean island nation’s economy is
likely to slow next year as a debt crisis in Europe affects
exports to its main trading partners. Weaker growth may widen
the budget deficit to 5 percent of gross domestic product next
year from an estimated 4.1 percent, raising the possibility of
an increase in personal income tax rates, Ng said.  Europe accounts for about two-thirds of the country’s
tourists, and takes 71 percent of manufactured exports,
according to the statistics agency.  Government departments must keep tighter control over
spending as revenue comes under pressure, Financial Secretary
 Ali Mansoor  said in a circular to ministries on Aug. 24. The
Finance Ministry has “limited leeway” in the preparation of
the budget because of an economic slowdown, Jugnauth said on
Oct. 20.  The country will struggle to meet its current forecast for
economic growth this year of about 4 percent, Pierre Dinan, an
independent economist, said by phone.  Inflation may accelerate to 5 percent next year, Ng said.
Mauritius’s annual inflation rate rose to 3.2 percent in October
from 2.5 percent a month earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Port-Louis via Johannesburg at 
   asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 