-- Australian Mining, Energy Projects Increase to Record, Forecaster Reports
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-11-18T01:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/australia-mining-energy-projects-increase-to-record-value-of-130-billion.html
The value of minerals and energy
projects being developed in Australia rose 21 percent in the
past six months to a record, boosted by liquefied natural gas
and iron ore investments, the nation’s commodity forecaster said.  The value of projects was A$132.9 billion ($130.3 billion)
at Oct. 31, the Canberra-based Australian Bureau of Agricultural
& Resource Economics-Bureau of Rural Sciences said today in a
statement on its  website . That compared with A$109.6 billion at
the end of April, according to the previous report.  “The increase in planned capital expenditure reflects
expectations of growing demand for mineral and energy
commodities in the medium and long term,” bureau Deputy
Executive Director Paul Morris said in the statement.  Australia, the world’s largest shipper of coal and iron ore,
in September forecast record commodity export sales this fiscal
year amid rising demand.  BG Group Plc , Chevron Corp., Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and ConocoPhillips are among energy companies
investing in LNG projects in the country to tap Asian demand for
cleaner-burning fuel to curb emissions.  The rise in planned investment partly reflected a decision
by BG Group to proceed with the Queensland Curtis Island LNG
project and Rio Tinto Group’s commitment to expand iron ore
export capacity by 60 million metric tons over the next three
years, Morris said.  The total investment value covers 72 advanced projects,
under construction or committed, according to the bureau. Energy
projects account for almost 70 percent of the estimated capital
cost and iron ore projects 13 percent, the report said.  Projects in Western Australia state accounted for about 70
percent of the capital expenditure and developments in
Queensland 21 percent, the bureau said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 