-- Australian Lawmakers to Consult Their Electorates on Allowing Gay Marriage
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2010-11-18T02:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/australian-lawmakers-to-consult-their-electorates-on-allowing-gay-marriage.html
Australian lawmakers will consult
voters in their electorates on whether they support gay marriage
after approving a parliamentary motion presented by the Greens
Party.  The motion, calling on lawmakers to gauge the feeling in
their communities for marriage equality, was passed in the House
of Representatives with a 73 to 72 vote. Australia’s Marriage
Act doesn’t recognize same sex couples.  “The Australian parliament has just taken an important
step to recognizing that love is equal,” Greens member  Adam Bandt , who introduced the motion, told reporters in Canberra
today. “It’s the first time the House of Representatives has
recognized marriage equality.”  The Greens are also pursuing a  change  to the Marriage Act
in the upper House Senate to allow same-sex weddings. Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard , whose Labor Party needs the support of
four non-party lawmakers to give it a majority in the House,
opposes the proposal along with opposition leader  Tony Abbott .  “The bill is waiting in the Senate for a free and open
debate on amending that legislation, bringing forward true
equality,” Greens Senator Sarah Hanson-Young, who introduced
the motion in the upper house, told reporters in Canberra today.
“Tony Abbott and Julia Gillard need to stop ignoring the call
in the community for love to be recognized as equal.”  Dividing Lawmakers  It is an issue dividing Labor lawmakers, with Senator  Mark Arbib , Senator Doug Cameron and Australian Workers Union
National Secretary Paul Howes calling for the party to change
its stance, the Australian newspaper reported on Nov. 6. Some 53
percent of 1,783 people surveyed by Essential Research published
Nov. 15 supported gay marriage. It didn’t give a margin of error.  Senator  Bob Brown , whose Greens party will have a record 10
lawmakers in the House and Senate when the new parliamentary
term starts next July, said earlier this week he wouldn’t seek
such a union with his partner.  “The answer to that is no, we have registered under the
Tasmanian system partnership, we had a very marvelous day at
 Liffey  with 70 or 80 friends and relatives a couple of years ago
and Paul and I are very happy with that outcome,” Brown said
when asked in an Nov. 16 interview. “This isn’t about that,
this was an issue in the election campaign coming up like a
rising tide around the country.”  Gillard has brought forward the Australian Labor Party
conference to 2011 from 2012 and said gay marriage will be
discussed at the  national  forum.  “We will have a debate about same sex marriage,” Gillard
told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “I believe in
our society, with our heritage and with our tradition and our
history that marriage has a special place and a special
definition.”  Brown, 66, said a change to the Marriage Act would make a
“huge difference” to Australia’s gay couples.  “It is something that may well change in the period of
this government,” he said. “I couldn’t conceive of this being
on the drawing board when I was a young fella, there was no
way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  