-- Australian, New Zealand Dollars Decline Amid Concerns of China Tightening
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-19T18:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/australian-new-zealand-dollars-head-for-weekly-gains-on-ireland-optimism.html
The Australian and New Zealand
currencies fell against the yen and dollar, snapping two-day
winning streaks, after China’s central bank introduced new
measures to curb inflation and slow the Asian economy. Both
currencies still climbed for the week versus the yen.  Australia’s currency weakened today against most of its 16
major peers as China ordered banks to set aside larger reserves
for the fifth time this year. The New Zealand dollar’s decline
was limited as traders boosted bets on interest-rate increases
by the nation’s central bank over the next year. China is
Australia’s largest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-
biggest export market.  “This is viewed as a negative because it does slow China’s
growth down a little bit,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S.
currency sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York.
“China is a big story.”  Australia’s dollar weakened 0.5 percent to 98.53 U.S. cents
at 1:20 p.m. in New York, from 98.99 cents yesterday, and fell
0.5 percent to 82.29 yen, from 82.68. For the week, the Aussie
gained less than 0.1 percent versus the U.S. dollar and advanced
1.3 percent against the yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, slipped 0.1
percent against both the greenback and yen to trade at 77.76
U.S. cents and 64.94 yen. Earlier it touched 65.14 yen, the
highest level since June 21. For the week, the kiwi gained 0.6
percent versus the U.S. dollar and climbed 1.7 percent against
the Japanese currency.  N.Z. Interest Rates  New Zealand’s dollar trimmed losses as traders increased
bets on interest-rate increases by its central bank over the
next 12 months. The official cash rate will be raised 83 basis
points, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on
swaps, up from 78 basis points yesterday.  Benchmark interest rates are 3 percent in New Zealand and
4.75 percent in  Australia , compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets.  Both the Aussie and the kiwi advanced earlier this week
against the yen and dollar as speculation that debt-laden
Ireland will accept a European bailout boosted demand for
higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  