-- Obama Says Auto Industry `Again on the Rise' After $20 Billion GM Offering
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-11-18T23:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/auto-industry-again-on-the-rise-obama-says-after-gm-s-20-billion-ipo.html
President  Barack Obama  said  General
Motors Co .’s return to the stock market shows the U.S. auto
industry is on the rise and will result in taxpayers getting
their money back from a government bailout.  “Today, one of the toughest tales of the recession took
another big step towards becoming a success story,” Obama said
at the White House after GM raised more than $20 billion from
investors.  GM received a $49.5 billion taxpayer bailout last year and
the U.S. Treasury will get as much as $13.6 billion from the
initial public offering. For taxpayers to be fully repaid, the
remaining shares held by the government would have to be sold at
an average of about $53 each to make back its total investment,
Bloomberg data show. GM gained 3.6 percent to $34.19, paring a
climb of 9.1 percent.  Obama defended the politically unpopular bailout of GM and
Chrysler Group LLC. Failing to act would have “resulted in
economic chaos,” he said.  “We’ve still got a long road ahead and a lot of work to do
to rebuild this economy,” Obama said. “We are finally
beginning to see some of these tough decisions that we made in
the midst of crisis pay off.”  Recovering Money  He said taxpayers are “now positioned to recover more than
my administration invested” in the company. The IPO would lower
the government’s stake to 37 percent from 61 percent.  White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said earlier today
that the administration hopes the government can sell its stake
in GM by mid- to late 2012.  The bailouts were cited by some Republican critics of the
administration during the campaign for the Nov. 2 midterm
congressional elections. Republicans won a majority of seats in
the House of Representatives and narrowed the margin held by
Obama’s Democratic Party in the Senate.  House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio, set to become
House speaker in January, today continued criticism of the
bailout.  He said GM could “have been handled in a more orderly way
by a bankruptcy judge without the heavy hand of the federal
government.”  In an Oct. 7-10 Bloomberg National Poll, 34 percent of
adults said they believed the automaker bailouts would lead to a
stronger economy, while 41 percent said it would weaken the
economy. Forty-five percent of likely voters said they were less
likely to support a congressional candidate who voted in favor
of the aid.  ‘Government Motors’  GM wants to shed the government as a shareholder as well.  Company Chairman  Ed Whitacre  said during an automotive
conference in August he was eager for the U.S. to sell its
shares because it would boost employee morale and help GM sell
more vehicles.  “We don’t like this label of Government Motors,”
Whitacre, 68, said.  The Obama administration stepped in to aid GM and Chrysler
with money from the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program
after Congress failed to act.  In response to public dissatisfaction over the bailout, the
administration has cited a study that shows the aid  helped save
more than 1.3 million jobs . Obama made repeated trips to
automobile factories over the summer to highlight their success.  “A lot of the public animosity to the bailouts is based on
principle as much as it is on performance,” said  Chris Borick ,
director of the Institute of Public Opinion at Muhlenberg
College in Allentown, Pennsylvania. “Even the good bottom-line
news from GM won’t necessarily overcome the broader dislike of
government support for struggling corporations.”  Election Impact  Karlyn Bowman , a specialist on public opinion at the
 American Enterprise Institute , a policy research group in
Washington, said the automaker aid “was certainly one of the
things that contributed to the perception during the election
that government was doing too many things.”  Obama isn’t likely to benefit substantially from the GM IPO
because his other big initiatives, health-care and financial
regulatory overhauls, fell flat with the public, said  Bruce Buchanan , a political scientist at the University of Texas in
Austin.  “If these other bigger deals didn’t have an impact on
Obama’s political fortunes and standing, it’s hard to see how
this one will,” Buchanan said. It may provide a “momentary
lift.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at of
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  