-- Tax-Exempt Muni Bonds Provide `Significant' Investor Value, Janney Says
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-18T16:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/tax-exempt-muni-bonds-provide-significant-investor-value-janney-says.html
Municipal bonds provide
“significant” value for investors because financial challenges
faced by states and local governments are “largely
manageable,” Janney Montgomery Scott LLC said in a report.  Janney said the tax-exempt market presents a favorable
buying environment even in the wake of a potential bankruptcy
filing by Harrisburg, the capital of Pennsylvania; budget
deficits in California; and unfunded pension liabilities in
Illinois and Pittsburgh.  “These challenges are largely manageable, and indeed we
see constant indications that conditions are improving in the
form of both gradually improving tax revenues and belt
tightening on the expense side,” wrote  Alan Schankel , director
of fixed-income research for the Philadelphia-based brokerage.  Thirty-year top-rated  municipal yields, which move
inversely to prices, climbed to 4.55 percent, the highest since
Sept. 1, 2009, according to a Bloomberg Valuation index. Yields
at every maturity today have risen as of 11:07 a.m. in New York,
BVAL indexes show.  Build America Bonds, which offer borrowers a 35 percent
federal subsidy on interest costs, expire at year-end. Issuers
rushing to market them before the deadline has helped spur
scheduled municipal-bond sales this week to about $15.4 billion,
the most in more than  seven years , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. California is issuing $10 billion in short-term
notes.  In addition to oversupply, investors are concerned about
“uncertainty” surrounding the Bush administration tax cuts,
which are set to expire at year-end unless Congress extends
them, Schankel said.  “We believe that tax-free bonds offer significant investor
value at current levels,” Schankel wrote. “The coming weeks
will be volatile, but as the market works its way through the
supply mountain, this week’s purchases will look relatively
attractive in the new year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  