-- Greek Bailout Pledge Hard to Keep as Lagging Tax Collection Burdens Budget
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-18T22:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/tax-threatens-budget-as-greece-tries-to-keep-bailout-promises.html
Greece’s budget planning is going
awry because of a perennial problem: taxes.  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  plans to tackle
tax evasion and cut spending on health care and transportation
as revenue fails to meet targets. Yesterday, he reduced the
estimate for 2010 net budget revenue a second time, to 6 percent
compared with 13.7 percent when the country agreed in May to a
110 billion-euro ($150 billion) bailout from the European Union
and International Monetary Fund.  “We all know the country’s economy is at a critical
turning point,” Papaconstantinou said at a press conference in
Athens. There is “a big difference between what we are doing
now and what we did in May,” he said.  Greece has among the poorest rates of tax collection in
Europe and avoidance remains rife, as more than 33 percent of
workers are listed as “self-employed” and yet they provide
just 4 percent of revenue, according to estimates from Athens-
based  EFG Eurobank . Inspectors from the EU and IMF began this
week a review of progress to approve a third loan payment.  Taxes are vital to lower what was the largest budget
deficit in the euro region last year at 15.4 percent of gross
domestic product, according to the IMF. The shortfall will be
7.4 percent in 2010, the Finance Ministry said yesterday.  ‘Strange Economy’  “We had an un-functioning, strange economy for 20 years
and 18 months doesn’t get it back into place,” said  Jason Manolopoulos , who helps manage $100 million for a hedge fund at
Athens-based Dromeus Capital. “It’s not only tax evasion, it’s
that the Greek tax system is so complicated it pushes people
into the grey. It’s going to take time.”  Money from income, corporation and sales taxes increased
3.7 percent in first 10 months of the year, the ministry said.
Revenue from taxes is among the lowest in the EU at 32.6 percent
of GDP, compared with the 39.3 percent average for the 27 EU
nations, according to a 2009 Eurostat report.  Reductions to wages, pensions and investment have helped
mask lagging revenue in Prime Minister  George Papandreou’s 
deficit-cutting drive. The government is counting on the last
two months of the year to boost state income, buoyed by motor
fees, real estate taxes and the effect of increases in sales
taxes, even as the economy contracts 4.2 percent.  The IMF said Sept. 14, after approving a second loan
installment, that curbing tax evasion and improving collection
are key to achieving the deficit-reduction pledges.  “The program’s credibility hinges critically on improving
tax compliance,” the IMF said. “Without improved compliance,
restoring fiscal sustainability will likely require additional
hikes in tax rates and painful expenditure cuts.”  Crimes Unit  In the first nine months of 2010, the country’s  Financial
and Economic Crimes unit  imposed 3.1 billion euros of fines,
almost double the year-earlier figure, said Ioannis Kapeleris,
who runs the office, in an Oct. 7 interview. His office isn’t
responsible for collecting the money, he said.  “We’re being asked today to fix the errors of a decade,”
he said. “There was an absence of tax collection. Restoring
this mechanism and getting it working again requires some time.
It can’t be done from one day to the next.”  The government will announce specific steps next week to
curb tax evasion and overhaul tax services, including abolishing
100 offices and deploying collectors elsewhere, Papaconstantinou
said yesterday. All the measures announced in the 2011 budget
were approved by officials from the EU and IMF, he said.  Back Taxes  The budget includes 1.6 billion euros to be raised from
clamping down on tax evasion by collecting back taxes and fines,
and a new system to settle disputes to increase revenue next
year without raising tax rates, Papaconstantinou said. The
government extended the deadline to Nov. 29 after collecting 300
million euros, he said yesterday.  Greeks are complaining about notifications being sent to
the dead, unemployed and tax-paying enterprises.  Theodoros Hiotakis, a 57-year-old with a veterinary
practice in Athens, said he was “horrified” when he was told
he owed 2,500 euros of back taxes.  “I pay my taxes every year, every single year,” Hiotakis
said. ‘We’ve told the tax department there’s a mistake and we’re
waiting to see what they’ll say.”  Deputy Finance Minister Dimitris Kouselas said that of the
1.5 million notices sent by the tax office, some may be
mistakes. Preliminary results from the amnesty show “a
significant response from taxpayers,” he said.  Concerns about the fairness of Papandreou’s austerity
measures may risk the social and political support that is
essential for the program to succeed, the IMF said.  ‘Poor State’  Ninety-five percent of income-tax payers declare annual
income of less than 30,000 euros, according to data compiled
last year by the Federation of Greek Industries.  “The problem with Greece is that it is a poor state with
rich people,” said Kapeleris at the Financial and Economic
Crimes unit. “Some people didn’t just magically achieve wealth.
They were breaking the law, evading taxes.”  Papandreou revealed a budget deficit after coming to power
in October 2009 that was twice what was reported by the previous
administration, in part exacerbated by falling tax revenue as
the country geared up for elections.  Additional tax evasion in the two months before elections
amounts to 1.5 percent of GDP when aggregated over all the
elections since the return of democracy in 1974 after the
military junta, according to a study by Spyros Skouras, a
professor at the  Athens University of Economics and Business ,
and  Nikos Christodoulakis , a former economy minister.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  