-- Taylor Proposes Altering Fed Law to Require `Systematic' Rate-Setting Rule
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-18T20:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/taylor-proposes-altering-fed-law-to-require-rate-setting-rule.html
The Federal Reserve would be
required to have a “systematic” rule for adjusting interest
rates under a proposal raised today by Stanford University
Professor John Taylor, a critic of the Fed’s monetary stimulus.  The Federal Reserve Act should be amended so the central
bank has to tell Congress twice a year about its strategy for
the “systematic adjustment of the federal funds rate in
response to changes in inflation and in the real economy during
the current year and future years,” Taylor, author of a formula
used by the Fed for setting central bank interest rates, said in
a speech in Washington.  Taylor, 63, is among the most prominent of Republican-
leaning economists gaining influence in discussions of Fed
policy after the party won control of the House and slimmed down
the Democrats’ Senate majority in this month’s midterm
elections. The former Treasury undersecretary was among 23
people who signed a letter this week calling for the Fed to halt
its $600 billion of Treasury purchases aimed at lowering
 unemployment .  “Recently, policy has become more short-term focused, more
discretionary and less rule-like,” Taylor said at the Cato
Institute’s annual monetary conference. “The idea here is maybe
with some legislation we could get policy to be more rule-like
and less interventionist, if you like, and that that would
improve performance. And that may get us back to the kind of
good performance we had for a couple of decades.”  Taylor said he previously hadn’t advocated putting
monetary-policy rules into law. His proposal would allow some
discretion: If the Fed deviates from the rule, the chairman
would have to tell Congress why, Taylor said.  ‘Not a Radical Proposal’  “This is not a radical proposal,” Taylor said.  Taylor published his interest-rate formula in a 1992 paper
while at Stanford. It suggests how a central bank should set
interest rates if  inflation  or growth veers from goals. The
Taylor rule is used more as a reference than a policy trigger.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in 2007 that Taylor’s research
provides “essential guidance” to central bankers on setting
interest rates.  Since the financial crisis that began in 2007, Taylor has
become one of the Fed’s chief academic critics. In January,
Bernanke said the Fed’s monetary policy wasn’t responsible for
causing the housing bubble, a claim disputed by Taylor.  Taylor’s proposal joins other potential changes to Fed law
being pushed by Republican lawmakers. Senator  Bob Corker  of
Tennessee and Representative  Michael Pence  of Indiana are
proposing legislation that would remove the Fed’s full-
employment mandate and have the central bank focus on inflation
alone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  