-- BankAtlantic Is Found Liable for Stock Fraud in Real-Estate Lending Trial
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2010-11-18T19:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/bankatlantic-executives-liable-for-stock-fraud-jury-in-miami-concludes.html
BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc.  executives
misled shareholders about the riskiness of the bank’s real-
estate-loan portfolio during 2007’s economic decline, a Miami
jury ruled in a stock-fraud case filed by investors.  Jurors in federal court deliberated about three days before
finding today that BankAtlantic officials ignored lending
guidelines in approving land-development loans and then
misrepresented problems with those deals in press conferences
and conference calls. The panel ordered BankAtlantic to pay
$2.41 a share in damages to investors, who had sought as much as
$3.52 a share.  “The jurors did not hesitate to hold the defendants
accountable for having made false and misleading statements
about the risky loans,” said  Mark Arisohn , an attorney for the
plaintiffs. “It was important for shareholders to be
vindicated.”  BankAtlantic, which last reported a  profit  in the second
quarter of 2007, traded at more than $44 in January 2005. The
Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based bank suffered a series of losses
in the wake of an economic decline triggered by the collapse of
the U.S. subprime-mortgage market in 2007.  Lawyers for BankAtlantic  argued in the five-week case that
executives didn’t foresee the slump in Florida’s real-estate
market in the fallout over subprime mortgages and clearly
disclosed problems within the bank’s loan portfolio.  19 Statements  Jurors were asked to evaluate 19 separate statements over a
year from Oct. 19, 2006, to Oct. 25, 2007. They ruled that bank
officials knowingly made eight statements between April 26,
2007, and Oct. 25, 2007, that violated securities laws and
damaged investors.  Eugene Stearns , an attorney for BankAtlantic, said the
company would appeal on a variety of issues, including U.S.
District Judge  Ursula Ungaro ’s ruling before the trial that four
of the 19 statements were false.  “We are obviously disappointed with the outcome, but in
light of the court’s ruling on the four statements, we’re not
particularly surprised,” Stearns said. “The probability that
they will ever collect a penny on this is infinitesimally
small.”  Juror Leticia Bacallao, a third-grade public school
teacher, said the panel of seven women and two men painstakingly
evaluated each of the 19 statements.  “We really wanted to make sure that the plaintiffs had
proved that each statement was false,” Bacallao said.  Stock Drop  Jurors arrived at the damages figure by deducting 52 cents
a share from the $2.93 a share the stock fell after BankAtlantic
disclosed the extent of its loan losses in October 2007,
Bacallao said. Jurors concluded the 52-cent drop was caused by
the economic downturn and not directly attributable to any
wrongdoing by the bank, she said.  Of the five company officials named as defendants,
including Chief Executive Officer  Alan Levan  and Chief Financial
Officer  Valerie Toalson , the jury found that all but one made
false statements. The jury absolved Vice Chairman  John Abdo  of
any wrongdoing. Abdo, the only bank officer present for the
verdict, declined to comment.  Investors originally sought damages of as much as $3.52 a
share on their claims that they were duped into buying
BankAtlantic stock by reassurances from officials that the
institution’s real-estate loans were solid.  Ungaro ruled that testimony during the trial indicated
investors’ damages should be limited to no more than $3.30 a
share if jurors found for shareholders.  BankAtlantic  fell less than 1 cent to 81 cents at 1:42 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 38 percent this year.  The case is In re BankAtlantic Bancorp Inc. Securities
Litigation, 07-cv-61542, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
 Susannah Nesmith  in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 