-- Barclays Said to Spin Off Private Equity Business to Managers to Curb Risk
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-11-18T10:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/barclays-to-sell-private-equity-business-to-unit-s-managers-ft-reports.html
Barclays Plc agreed to spin off its
private equity unit as lenders worldwide face stricter oversight
of their riskiest operations following the financial crisis,
according to a person with knowledge of the plans.  Barclays Private Equity’s managers agreed to acquire the
business in return for a paying the bank a share of its profit
in coming years, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. They won’t make an initial cash
payment for the business, the person said.  Britain’s third-largest lender is seeking to curb its
reliance on profit from its investment bank by expanding its
retail banking operations. Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. are shedding some businesses such as their buyout
units or divisions trading in their own capital to meet stricter
regulations from Congress in the U.S. and the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision in Europe.  The private equity firm will be led by  Guillaume Jacqueau ,
who will also replace  Gonzague de Blignieres  as head of the
Paris office, the person said.  Owen Clarke , who’s worked with
the firm for 16 years, will become chief investment officer.  The firm aims to raise 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) for a
new fund, the person said. Lazard Ltd. is advising on the
fundraising. Barclays won’t invest in the pool, the person said.  Barclays rose 1.6 percent to 278.75 pence at 10:17 a.m. in
London trading. Officials at London-based Barclays declined to
comment. The Financial Times reported the sale earlier today.  Citigroup said in July it would transfer management of a
group of in-house private-equity funds to StepStone Group LLC
and sell interests in its funds to Lexington Partners Inc. as
part of a plan to exit non-core assets. Morgan Stanley last
month agreed to give up control of its FrontPoint Partners LLC
hedge-fund unit to the fund’s managers.  Goldman Sachs is among financial firms that are cutting
proprietary traders as new U.S. rules seek to restrict
investment banks from making bets with the company’s capital.
KKR & Co. is poised to start a unit to invest in stocks with a
team of proprietary traders from Goldman Sachs, the New York-
based buyout firm said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  