-- Bell, California, Spent $710,000 Illegally, State Controller's Audit Finds
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-11-18T23:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/bell-california-spent-710-000-illegally-state-controller-s-audit-finds.html
Bell , the California city that paid
its former manager almost $800,000 a year, unlawfully spent at
least $710,000 in state and federal funds, a state audit said.  Contracts for goods or services examined as part of the
audit weren’t awarded through competitive bids, according to the
report released today by state Controller  John Chiang .  “The fact that the former chief administrative officer was
able to pick vendors and award contracts at will using state and
federal funds raises serious questions about conflicts of
interest, favoritism and other improprieties,” Chiang said
today in a news release.  City Manager  Robert Rizzo  and two other officials resigned
July 22, a week after the Los Angeles Times reported that they
earned a collective $1.6 million annually. Bell is a town of
36,000 people 10 miles (16 kilometers) south of Los Angeles in
which one in four residents lives below the poverty line,
according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Rizzo, Mayor  Oscar Hernandez  and six other current and
former officials were arrested Sept. 21 on charges they
misappropriated $5.5 million, paying themselves through
reimbursements for phantom committee meetings and with illegal
personal loans, according to a  press release  that month from Los
Angeles County District Attorney  Steve Cooley . Questionable city
spending amounts to more than $6 million, Chiang’s release said.  Magdalena Prado, a Bell spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to a call seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in San Diego at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 