-- Bernanke Defends Fed Policy as Republicans Step Up Criticism
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-11-18T14:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/bernanke-defends-asset-purchases-as-republican-lawmakers-step-up-criticism.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended his expansion of record monetary stimulus in a
meeting with Senators as top Republican lawmakers stepped up
their criticism of the central bank chief’s policies.  Bernanke, in a closed-door meeting yesterday, said the
Fed’s plan to buy $600 billion in assets would spur job growth
while keeping inflation under control.  John Boehner , the
presumptive House speaker, and three other Republicans sent
Bernanke a letter expressing “deep concerns” about a policy
they said risked weakening the dollar and fueling asset bubbles.  Bernanke spent months preparing financial markets for the
second round of stimulus, which was announced Nov. 3, the day
after elections that gave Republicans control of the House of
Representatives on a wave of anti-government sentiment. St.
Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said the Fed might have done a
better job explaining how its policies differ from federal
rescues of financial institutions.  “What is really only ordinary monetary policy got
conflated, I think, with other kinds of government programs,
bailout programs,” Bullard told reporters yesterday after a
speech in St. Louis. “It is up to us to try to communicate
better about monetary policy.”  Yesterday’s letter to Bernanke was also signed by House
Republican Whip  Eric Cantor  of Virginia, Senate Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky and Senate Republican Whip
 Jon Kyl  of Arizona.  Strength of Dollar  “While intended to improve the short-term growth of the
U.S. economy and help maintain a stable price level, such a
measure introduces significant uncertainty regarding the future
strength of the dollar,” the letter said. The purchases could
“result both in hard-to-control, long-term inflation and
potentially generate artificial asset bubbles.”  Mark Calabria , a former aide to Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the Banking Committee, said the
letter indicates congressional leaders are seizing on an issue
important to their political base. McConnell made a similar
calculation this week by dropping his opposition to banning
budget “earmarks” for lawmakers’ pet projects, Calabria said.  “They are responding to what they believe are some of the
Tea Party and Republican concerns,” said Calabria, now director
of financial regulation studies at the Cato Institute in
Washington, a policy research group that favors free markets.
“They’re sensing that the Fed and Bernanke are not very popular
right now.”  Palin Letter  Sarah Palin , the 2008 vice-presidential candidate who
helped propel some Republicans to election victories this year,
today renewed her criticism of the Fed in a letter to the Wall
Street Journal.  “It’s time for us to ‘refudiate’ the notion that this
dangerous experiment in printing $600 billion out of thin air,
with nothing to back it up, will magically fix economic
problems,” wrote Palin, who said in New York Times and ABC News
reports this week that she’s considering a 2012 run for
president.  The difference between yields on 2-and 10-year Treasury
notes widened after yesterday’s Republican criticism. The
difference between yields on 2- and 10-year debt rose to 2.39
percentage points and was near the 2.45 percentage points it
touched the previous day, the highest since July 16.  Yields on the longer-maturity debt are rising faster as
investors demand a greater premium against the risk that Fed
officials won’t be able to control increases in inflation after
completing the asset purchases.  Mandate Change  Yesterday’s letter from top Republicans came in a week in
which 23 people, including former Republican government
officials and economists, urged Bernanke to halt the stimulus,
while Republican lawmakers proposed stripping the Fed of its
mandate to promote full employment.  Republicans “don’t trust the Fed and see it as rewarding
the bad behavior of the opposition,” said  Vincent Reinhart , a
resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington and a former Fed board division director.  The central bank’s second round of asset purchases works
out to about $110 billion a month through June because the New
York Fed is also reinvesting proceeds from Fed holdings of
maturing mortgage debt. That about covers what bond dealers
estimate will be the Treasury’s monthly financing needs next
year.  “Monetizing the deficit now facilitates and doesn’t address
the problem” in Republicans’ view, Reinhart said.  Bear Stearns Rescue  The Republican attacks are among the harshest since the Fed
rushed to rescue the financial system with support for Bear
Stearns Cos. and  American International Group Inc.  during the
financial crisis.  Bernanke, at the Senate meeting, said that he and his
colleagues “remain absolutely committed to not letting
inflation or inflationary expectations get out of control,”
Senator  Evan Bayh , an Indiana Democrat, told reporters after the
40-minute session.  The Fed chief told senators that central bank officials
“want to do what they can now to encourage more growth rather
than less,” Bayh said. The second round of purchases followed a
previous $1.7 trillion bond-purchase program. Economists call
the strategy quantitative easing because it aims to increase the
quantity of bank reserves.  Focus on Inflation  Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee and Representative  Michael Pence  of Indiana are proposing legislation that would remove the
Fed’s full-employment mandate and have the central bank focus on
inflation alone.  “The Federal Reserve hasn’t gotten the message,” Pence
said on the House floor yesterday. “Printing money is no
substitute for sound fiscal policy.”  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , a
Massachusetts Democrat, came to Bernanke’s defense, telling
reporters that his performance has “been very helpful” and
“staved off much worse activity.”  “They’ve got to use the tools of monetary policy to help
us lower the unemployment rate,” said Senator  Bernard Sanders ,
a Vermont Independent, in a separate meeting with reporters. “I
don’t think we are going to surrender that. I will not support
surrendering that.”  Bernanke’s formation as a young economist is book-ended by
the two disasters in Fed history -- the Great Depression and the
inflation of the late 1970s. Bernanke, 56, has also pioneered
research with New York University Professor  Mark Gertler  that
showed how financial crises can accelerate downturns, and he was
critical of the Bank of Japan for not responding more forcefully
to deflation.  Avoiding Disaster  “The disaster they want to avoid now is becoming like
Japan,” Gertler said in an interview yesterday. “Republicans
don’t understand the risks of deflation. The economy is weak
right now so there is a risk that expectations of falling prices
set in, and that is going to raise real interest rates.”  Still, hostility toward the Fed is strong among Republican
voters and especially followers of the Tea Party, a loose
collection of activists who want to curb government power.
Forty-one percent of Republicans and 55 percent of Tea Party
supporters believe the Fed should be abolished or radically
overhauled, according to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted
Oct. 7-10.  Ultimate Loser  James Galbraith , an economist at the University of Texas at
Austin, said the ultimate loser of a single-mandate Fed would be
Congress, which would no longer be able to engage the central
bank on such critical issues as growth and jobs.  “To say that you should focus on inflation and not
unemployment is a little strange,” said Galbraith, who helped
write the Humphrey-Hawkins Full Employment Act of 1978, which
enshrined the Fed’s dual mandate to seek stable prices and full
employment. “This is a warning shot by a couple of senators who
know very well that they are not going to get a bill
entertained.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Torres  in Washingtont .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  