-- Bikers Get Backing of Kimberly-Clark, Sprint as 800,000 Hit Road
-- B y   I a n   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-18T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/bikers-get-backing-of-kimberly-clark-sprint-as-800-000-hit-road.html
Snow, rain and sleet can’t keep Rob
Gusky and his bicycle off the roads of Wisconsin.  Most days the  Kimberly-Clark Corp.  engineer makes the 17-
mile round trip to his office in Neenah, about 100 miles from
Milwaukee. When winter makes commuting treacherous, Gusky, 48,
trades in his Trek for a Schwinn with studded tires.  Gusky has plenty of company these days. He is one of about
765,000 Americans who regularly bike to work, according to 2009
figures from the U.S. Census Bureau. That’s up 22 percent since
2006. Those numbers likely will grow as such companies as
Kimberly-Clark, Sprint Nextel Corp. and  Texas Instruments Inc.  
step up their efforts to get employees to leave their cars at 
home, said cycling advocate Andy Clarke.  "Every company is on the lookout for something that gets
more people physically active," said Clarke, who runs the League
of American Bicyclists, a Washington, D.C.-based advocacy group.
"They’re looking for something that’s going to have long-lasting
effect, and know there’s a cycling piece to it."  Companies are keen to keep employees fit as they stare down
health-care costs that are forecast to rise 8.2 percent to
$10,730 per employee in 2011, according to a study by benefits 
consulting firm Towers Watson.  Kimberly-Clark, the maker of Huggies diapers and Viva paper
towels, has long encouraged work-life balance and added a gym at
its Neenah location more than 30 years ago. The company’s “Get
Up and Ride” biking plan, which Gusky helped create, began at
three locations in 2008. It has since expanded to include 62
sites worldwide, half of them in the U.S., with about 5 percent
of Neenah’s 3,200  employees  taking part.  Fitness Discount  At  Sprint’s  base in Overland Park, Kansas, employees who
cycle more than 10 days a month get a 15 percent discount on
fees to use the company’s fitness center. Sprint, the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, started its “Smart Commute
Program” in April 2009. Six dedicated bike lockers and various
bike racks have been built on site, while about 20 communal
bicycles are available for employees to get around the campus,
according to Crystal Davis, a spokeswoman for the company.  Texas Instruments , the second-largest U.S. chipmaker, has
worked with local government to lengthen and improve bike trails
around its Dallas headquarters. The number of cyclists taking
part in the company’s annual “Bike to Work Day” has increased
tenfold in six years, according to Craig Herteg, the company’s
bike scheme coordinator.  “When you become healthier, you perform better,” said
Herteg, 50, who lost 50 pounds in less than six months after he
began cycling to work in 2004.  U.S. cities, too, are encouraging people to ride rather
than drive -- in some cases taking their cues from Europe where
bike commuting is more established. Portland, Oregon,
Minneapolis, Seattle and San Francisco all have improved their
cycling infrastructure over the past few years.  Europe Lessons  Portland officials have visited the Netherlands, where bike
networks link the entire country, to study best practices.
Today, the greater Portland area is crisscrossed by more than
300 miles of bike lanes and many older lanes have been widened.  “Our approach has been to create good conditions where
people aren’t scared of cars,” said Roger Geller, bicycle
coordinator at the city’s Bureau of Transportation.  Still, Portland has a way to go before it catches up with
Amsterdam. Cyclists account for 6 percent of daily commutes in
the Oregon city, according to census data, while more than 30
percent of commuters in Amsterdam cycle to work. About three-
quarters of all Americans still prefer to drive to work.  Not Gusky, who remains committed even after breaking a bike
frame mid-commute, a mishap that required his wife to rescue
him. Gusky gave his Toyota Corolla to his son and says he has
saved $3,000 in the past two years even after shelling out for
his two bikes and weather-proof clothing.  “I keep all my receipts and a note of the amount of money
I’m saving on gas, insurance and expenses to show my wife we’re
in the black,” Gusky said. “We’re saving money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Thomson in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  