-- Boeing 787 Dreamliner to Be Delayed Again After Fire, Udvar-Hazy Says
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2010-11-18T22:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/boeing-s-787-dreamliner-will-definitely-be-postponed-udvar-hazy-says.html
Boeing Co. ’s 787 Dreamliner will
“definitely” be postponed a seventh time after a test jet
caught fire during a flight last week, said  Steven Udvar-Hazy ,
who was once the planemaker’s biggest customer.  “It’s a big setback for Boeing,” Udvar-Hazy said today of
the Nov. 9 electrical fire that prompted an emergency landing
and forced the company to suspend test flights since.  Speaking in an interview at an airline conference in Panama
City, Udvar-Hazy didn’t say when the 787 might be ready to enter
passenger service. Udvar-Hazy was  Boeing ’s biggest customer as
founder and chief executive officer of International Lease
Finance Corp., which has 74 Dreamliners on order. He retired
from the company this year and started another leasing business,
Air Lease Corp.  Boeing can’t comment on a potential delay until it has
completed an investigation of the fire, which broke out in a
power panel under the cabin floor of one of the test jets, said
 Lori Gunter , a spokeswoman at the Chicago-based company.  The 787 is the first composite-plastic airliner and uses an
all-electric system to save on fuel. It’s running almost three
years behind schedule, with the most recent target for delivery
to the first customer in the first quarter of 2011.  Boeing  rose $2.11, or 3.4 percent, to $64.61 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 8 percent since the day before the fire, after having
gained 30 percent this year through Nov. 8.  Investor Opportunity  “We strongly encourage long-term investors to take
advantage of one-off opportunities such as these where the
market is pre-disposed to assume the worst,”  Carter Leake , an
analyst with Davenport & Co. in Richmond, Virginia, wrote in a
note to clients yesterday. “A delay in the program is very
likely, but we believe Boeing is currently pricing in far more
serious issues.”  The likelihood that the fire revealed a problem with the
787’s electrical system that would take longer than six months
to fix is “much lower than the market is currently assuming,”
Leake said.  Heidi Wood , a Morgan Stanley analyst in New York, said
yesterday that Boeing may not be able to deliver the first plane
until 2012, because the fire may prompt a redesign of software
and hardware.  The Dreamliner was supposed to enter service in May 2008.
With 847 advance orders, the 250-seat plane, which sells for
$178 million at the average list price, is the company’s best-
selling jet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Sabo  in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanna Ray  in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 