-- Boskalis to Seek Acquisitions After Smit Integration, CEO Says
-- B y   J e r o e n   M o l e n a a r
-- 2010-11-18T13:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/boskalis-jumps-as-forecast-beats-estimates-on-smit-acquisition.html
Royal Boskalis Westminster NV , the
world’s biggest dredging company, will seek further acquisitions
after it fully integrates the 1.1 billion-euro ($1.5 billion)
purchase of  Smit International NV , Chief Executive Officer  Peter Berdowski  said.  “In March, we’ll announce a new business plan,” Berdowski
said today in a phone interview. “In the next couple of years
we’ll generate a lot of cash to further build the company via
acquisitions.”  Boskalis today raised its full-year earnings forecast to
290 million euros. That exceeded the average  estimate  of 252
million euros in a Bloomberg survey, sending Boskalis shares up
as much as 11 percent, their biggest intraday rise since August
2009.  The company will seek out new acquisitions starting next
year, focusing on targets “a bit smaller” than Smit, Berdowski
said. “I don’t see any logical steps in dredging in the next
couple of years, so it will be in adjacent areas, as well as
filling in white spots on the map.”  The shares added 10 percent to 32.71 euros at 2:18 p.m. in
Amsterdam, giving the Papendrecht, Netherlands-based dredger a
market value of 3.3 billion euros.  Boskalis and Smit, the world’s biggest marine-salvager, are
“working together well,” Berdowski said. “In 2011, we will
also have a shared budget.”  Harbor Towage  Berdowski bought Smit  in 2009 as the global financial
crisis hit the construction and dredging industry. In addition
to salvage, Smit also operates tugboats in ports including
Rotterdam, raises pontoons for offshore construction and tows
vessels to oil and gas terminals. Boskalis said in a statement
today that harbor-towage operations are benefiting from
increased trade volume in shipping.  Dredging had an “extremely strong” quarter, and a large
portion of the dredging fleet “is assured of good utilization
levels for a significant part of 2011,” the company said.  Boskalis has secured about 70 percent of next year’s
dredging projects, Berdowski said in the interview. The company
will continue to look for “short-term” projects to further
improve its utilization rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeroen Molenaar  in Amsterdam 
 jmolenaar1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 