-- British Airways Wins U.K. Appeal in Cartel Lawsuit
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-11-18T17:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/british-airways-wins-appeal-over-customers-in-u-k-cartel-case.html
British Airways Plc  won a U.K.
appeal to block hundreds of air-cargo customers from forming a
group in a U.S.-style class-action lawsuit over the carrier’s
role in a price-fixing cartel.  Two flower shippers that sued British Airways in 2008 can’t
represent all direct and indirect customers of the carrier, a
group that could run into the hundreds of thousands, because
there was no way to know if they had the same interest in the
case, the  Court of Appeal  in London ruled today.  The decision “is a clear rejection of an attempt to fit a
U.S.-style class action within the existing English rules of
civil procedure,” said  Euan Burrows , a lawyer with the firm
 Ashurst LLP  in London, who isn’t involved in the case. “This
attempt was always ambitious.”  The decision comes a week after British Airways was fined
104 million euros ($142 million) by the European Union following
a three-year probe of the cartel. In 2007, the London-based
company pleaded guilty in the U.S. to related charges and was
fined $300 million.  Justice  John Mummery , who wrote the decision on behalf of a
three-judge panel, said the customers’ request for a so-called
representative action was “fatally flawed.”  The flower shippers appealed an April 2009 ruling by Judge
 Andrew Morritt  in the High Court in London denying their request
because the proposed group was too ill-defined and had too many
potential conflicts.  Anthony Maton , a lawyer for the flower
shippers, said today’s ruling was “disappointing.”  Representative Basis  “Proceeding on a representative basis would have
simplified the steps required of the cartel’s victims in order
to make good their claims against BA, ultimately saving all
parties involved significant time and costs,” Maton, a lawyer
at Hausfeld & Co. LLP, said in a statement.  Jonathan Sinclair, a lawyer who leads the antitrust
practice at Stewarts Law in Leeds, England, said that
legislation is needed in order to broadly define groups in
class-action lawsuits that allow customers to “opt out,” as
they do in the U.S.  “Large businesses can contemplate bringing damages claims,
but when you talk about smaller businesses, the complexities and
risks of bringing litigation are still very great,” Sinclair
said. “The mechanisms currently available do not make that easy
for them.”  Other Carriers  British Airways in July asked the court to add  Air France-
KLM Group ,  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  and 30 others as
defendants to protect itself against payments it may be ordered
to make in the case. The court is still considering the request.  The airline could use different defenses against different
members of the proposed class, by arguing direct customers had
already passed on higher prices to the indirect customers,
today’s ruling said.  British Airways isn’t the only carrier facing civil cartel
claims.  Air France  and its Dutch Martinair unit were sued in
September in the Netherlands for as much as 500 million euros
over the carriers’ alleged involvement in the cartel.  About 300 shipping customers, including Royal Philips
Electronics NV and  Ericsson AB , joined the Dutch case claiming
that they paid too much for services in Europe from 2000 to
2006, according to Claims Funding International Plc, the Dublin-
based company that organized the case.  The European Commission said last month it is considering
expanding the use of group lawsuits for customers affected by
antitrust violations in all of the EU’s 27 nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 