-- Britain ‘Knee Deep’ in Ireland After Bank Bailouts
-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2010-11-18T16:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/british-taxpayers-knee-deep-in-ireland-debt-after-bailout-of-the-banks.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  says Britain “stands ready” to assist Ireland. What he
didn’t say is that U.K. taxpayers have already funded the
largest part of an 18.4 billion-pound ($29.4 billion) bailout
for Irish lenders.  The aid was used to prop up the Irish units of  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  since the
onset of the credit crisis, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  RBS , Britain’s biggest government-controlled bank, had at
least 11.9 billion pounds of Irish assets covered by the U.K.
taxpayer-backed  Asset Protection Scheme  at the end of 2009. It
also sent 2.71 billion-pounds of additional capital to its
Ulster Bank unit up to January this year, according to records
in Dublin’s  Companies Registration Office . Government-controlled
Lloyds sent a total of 4.45 billion euros ($6 billion) in fresh
capital to its Bank of Scotland (Ireland) unit in 2010 and
previously, the bank said.  “We’re knee deep already in Ireland’s banks,” said  Peter Hahn , a former managing director of Citigroup Inc. who now
lectures on corporate finance at  Cass Business School  in London.
“It’s going to get increasingly disturbing for people to see
how exposed we are to Ireland’s banks.” If anything, 18.4
billion pounds “sounds like a low number,” he said.  ‘Good Neighbors’  British banks have the world’s biggest “exposure” to
Ireland, totaling more than $222 billion at the end of the first
quarter, according to the  Bank for International Settlements .
Bank bailouts have forced Britain to implement the biggest
public expenditure cuts since the end of World War II.  London’s offer of help came “because we are good neighbors
of Ireland, not because we have particular concern about any
U.K. bank,” Osborne said before a  European Union  discussion on
assistance for Dublin yesterday.  RBS, 83 percent government-owned, had a total of 53.3
billion pounds of loans in Ireland as of Sept. 30, while  Lloyds ,
41 percent government owned, had 26.68 billion pounds of Irish
loans at June 30.  Both banks invested in the residential and commercial real
estate markets before Ireland’s property bubble burst at the end
of a decade-long boom.  Irish house prices have fallen 36 percent from their 2006
high, mortgage lender Irish Life & Permanent said in a report
last month, while commercial property prices have dropped 59
percent since September 2007, according to an index from
Investment Property Databank.  ‘Very Connected’  Lloyds said loan losses at its Irish unit rose 52 percent
to 1.6 billion pounds in the first half of the year, while RBS
earlier this month said bad loans in Ireland “increased
sharply.”  Ulster Bank  write-offs and pretax operating loss both
doubled.  Lloyds said in August that  Bank of Scotland (Ireland)  would
cease to operate as a separate unit and that the business would
be transferred to its U.K.-based Bank of Scotland division. The
bank was acquired as part of Lloyds’s HBOS takeover in January
2009.  British and Irish banks are “very connected,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron  told a  House of Commons  committee in
London today. The U.K. may provide loans directly to Ireland and
these would be added to the  budget deficit , he said. “We have
an interest in not just the euro zone being a success, we have
an interest in Ireland being a success.”  Budget Deficit  Ireland’s Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  today said the
government is prepared to ask for a rescue package for its banks
after talks with the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund  conclude. The loan may be worth “tens of billions” of
euros, according to central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan .  Britain is seeking to cut its budget deficit to 2 percent
of GDP by 2015 from more than 10 percent today. As part of the
process, ministers considered canceling a 5.25 billion-pound
order for two 65,000-ton  aircraft carriers , according to a
 letter  from BAE Systems Plc to Cameron last month. The funds
committed so far to assist banks in Ireland would buy seven
vessels.  In October 2009, Britain’s Business Secretary  Vince Cable ,
then Treasury spokesman for the opposition Liberal Democrats,
said “many people will find it hard to understand why British
taxpayers are bailing out bad investments made in Ireland.”
Today he declined to comment.  RBS, Lloyds and  U.K. Financial Investments , which manages
the British government’s holdings in banks, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net 
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  