-- Bain's Burlington Pulls Dividend Financing as Payout Deals Surge Fivefold
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2010-11-18T20:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/burlington-coat-factory-said-to-pull-1-5-billion-debt-offer-for-dividend.html
Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse
Corp. , the discount clothing-store operator, pulled $1.5 billion
of debt financing it planned to repay borrowings and fund a
dividend to owner Bain Capital LLC, according to eight people
familiar with the negotiations.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. was marketing a $1 billion term loan
for the transaction and told investors in e-mails and phone
calls today that the financing had been withdrawn, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the terms are
private. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was arranging $500 million of
notes.  Burlington failed to take advantage of rallies in the high-
risk, high-yield loan and bond markets as issuers led by Dunkin’
Brands Inc., another Bain company, and Petco Animal Supplies
Inc., owned by Leonard Green & Partners LP and TPG Capital,
tightened pricing and completed debt financings to fund payouts
to private-equity firms. Dividend-related speculative-grade bond
and loan sales are accelerating, with issuance this year rising
fivefold from last year to at least $37 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and Standard & Poor’s Leveraged
Commentary & Data.  Robert LaPenta , treasurer of Burlington, didn’t immediately
return a message left at his office.  Bain bought Burlington for $1.87 billion in 2006, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The clothing-store company was
planning to fund a $325 million payout to the Boston-based
private-equity firm.  Loan Drops  Burlington’s $900 million term loan due May 2013 fell about
three points to 97.25 cents on the dollar, following news the
financing package was pulled, said three people familiar with
the trades. As of Aug. 31, there was $850.3 million outstanding
under the facility, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan initiated lender talks for the new term loan Nov.
5, when Burlington offered to pay an interest rate 5.25
percentage points more than the London interbank offered rate.
Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to each other, would have a
1.75 percent floor.  Burlington also proposed to issue the debt at 98.5 cents on
the dollar, reducing proceeds for the company and boosting the
yield for investors.  Investors considering the transaction said pricing for the
loan was too low considering its B3 rating by Moody’s Investors
Service and the B- grade assigned to it by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
 Krista Giovacco  in New York at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 