-- Buy `Inexpensive' Petrobras Call Options on Reserves, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-11-18T18:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/buy-inexpensive-petrobras-call-options-morgan-stanley-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA’s bullish
U.S.  options  are “inexpensive” and should be bought because
reserves at Brazil’s state-controlled oil producer may have more
value than analysts estimate, Morgan Stanley said.  Equity derivatives strategists  Christopher Metli  and  Sivan Mahadevan  recommended buying the April $35 calls on the American
depositary receipts while selling the April $40 calls, a
strategy known as a call spread that cuts the cost of the trade
while capping potential profit. The ADRs gained 2.6 percent to
$33.66 as of 1:13 p.m. in New York.  The strategists cited Morgan Stanley stock analyst  Subhojit Daripa , who said in a Nov. 3 report that investors are
underestimating the potential size of the government’s offshore
Libra oil field. The Sao Paulo-based analyst has an
“overweight” rating on the stock.  “Options look inexpensive, and we like call spreads to
play for upside with limited risk,” the New York-based
strategists wrote. “Existing oil reserves are underappreciated"
and the stock is trading ‘‘at a steep price-to-earnings
discount’’ compared with its peers.  The oil producer that raised $70 billion in a share sale
this year has slumped 29 percent in 2010 in U.S. trading. Rio de
Janeiro-based Petrobras tumbled Nov. 12 after quarterly  profit 
trailed some analysts’ estimates amid higher refining and
production costs.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 