-- Cablevision Explores Spinoff of TV Channels Including `Mad Men' Home AMC
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-11-18T21:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/cablevision-explores-spinoff-of-cable-channel-business-to-its-shareholders.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. , the New
York-area cable-television provider, is exploring a spinoff of
its Rainbow unit, which includes cable channels Sundance, IFC
and AMC, the broadcaster of “Mad Men.” The stock jumped.  The unit would be spun off to Cablevision’s shareholders as
a “tax-free pro rata distribution,” the Bethpage, New York-
based company said today in a statement. The plan calls for a
completion of the transaction in mid-year 2011.  The split would let Chief Executive Officer  Jim Dolan  focus
on the company’s cable operation, which competes against rivals
such as Verizon Communications Inc. Last quarter, Rainbow’s
sales rose 12 percent to $291.4 million, helped by advertising
demand. The unit makes up 16 percent of Cablevision’s  revenue .  “The cable business is far larger and had overshadowed
what has been one of the better performers in the cable
business,” said Gabelli & Co. analyst  Chris Marangi , who rates
the shares “buy” and doesn’t own any.  The move contrasts with larger cable carrier  Comcast Corp. ,
which is buying control of NBC Universal to add media assets.
Cablevision, about one-fifth the size of Comcast, doesn’t have
the scale to push distribution of its networks, said Marangi,
based in Rye, New York. As a separate entity, Rainbow has a
chance to boost its valuation, he said.  Cablevision rose $1.98, or 6.8 percent, to $30.91 at 4:01
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , its biggest
jump since July 2009. The stock has added 45 percent this year.  No Sale  Dolan’s family, which controls Cablevision, is opting to
break the company into pieces after trying to take it private at
least three times. Earlier this year, Dolan spun off the
company’s Madison Square Garden unit.  The separation of Rainbow would provide “each company with
greater flexibility to pursue strategic objectives,”
Cablevision said.  The company said it isn’t considering the sale of Rainbow
or its cable and telecommunications business. Rainbow could be
worth as much as $4.7 billion, excluding debt, Miller Tabak &
Co. analyst David Joyce wrote in a note to clients today. The
unit makes up more than 15 percent of Cablevision’s profit.  AMC’s hit series “Mad Men,” about the New York
advertising industry in the 1960s, won an Emmy for best dramatic
series in August for the third straight win in the category. The
show also won a writing award for creator Matthew Weiner and
Erin Levy.  The spinoff of the Rainbow unit would leave Cablevision
with mainly cable assets, as well as Newsday, the daily
newspaper that makes up less than 5 percent of its sales. In
June, Cablevision agreed to buy Bresnan Communications Co. for
$1.37 billion, expanding its cable offerings in the western U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  