-- California Raises Yields on $10 Billion Sale Amid Supply Glut, Offers BABs
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-11-18T23:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/california-raises-yields-on-10-billion-notes-due-2011-by-25-basis-points.html
California  was forced to raise
yields on $10 billion of short-term notes it sold and had to
offer rates on taxable debt that exceed those on some lower-
rated corporate bonds amid a surge in municipal issuance.  The state today sold $2.25 billion of notes due in May with
a yield of 1.5 percent and $7.75 billion that mature in June at
1.75 percent, both 0.25 percentage point higher than quoted to
investors yesterday, Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  said. The state also
began offering $3.275 billion of taxable debt today, including
Build America Bonds quoted to yield 3.3 percentage points more
than comparable-maturity Treasuries, according to a person
familiar with the marketing. The size was initially $2 billion.  Issuers rushing to market to beat the year-end expiration
of the federally subsidized Build America Bond program helped
spur scheduled sales this week to about $15.4 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thirty-year top-rated  municipal
yields, which move inversely to prices, climbed to 4.55 percent,
the highest since Sept. 1, 2009, according to a Bloomberg
Valuation index.  “There are so many deals out in the market and coming to
the market in the near future, that it’s kind of like choking a
horse,” said  Bud Byrnes , chief executive officer at Encino,
California-based RH Investment Corp.  Individual investors ordered $6.06 billion of California’s
revenue-anticipation notes, or RANs, a type of short-term
municipal bond that the state offers when cash is low and repays
from later tax collections. That’s down from the 75 percent
ordered from individuals during a retail period when the state
offered $8.8 billion of similar notes in September 2009.  Cost to Taxpayers  Interest on the notes will cost California taxpayers $172.1
million by the time they mature next year, said  Tom Dresslar , a
spokesman for Lockyer, in a statement. About $14 million of that
resulted from the 25 basis-point increase in yields, he said. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  This year’s note sale followed an report from the state’s
Legislative Analyst’s Office Nov. 10 that said California’s
deficit may exceed $25 billion in the next 19 months, including
$6.1 billion in the fiscal year that ends in June.  That news and the supply glut helped widen the amount
investors demand to hold California debt over similar top-rated
securities.  The notes due in May yield 98 basis points, or 0.98
percentage point, more than top-rated one-year debt and the June
notes yield 123 basis points more,  Municipal Market Advisors 
data show. The state paid 59 basis points more for similar notes
that matured last May and 84 basis points more for those that
came due in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Heavy Lifting’  “In a market beating down issuers left and right,”
Dresslar said, “selling $10 billion was some heavy lifting, and
we got it done.”  As Lockyer wrapped up the note sale, he began marketing the
$3.275 billion of taxable debt, including $3.025 billion of
Build America Bonds. Final prices on the offering will be set
tomorrow.  Lockyer increased the Build America portion from the
initial plan, citing “strong investor demand indicated today”
in a statement.  “For us, looking at it on a risk-adjusted and from a
credit side, California looks like a very attractive
opportunity,” said  Matt Buscone , a portfolio manager at
Breckinridge Capital Advisors Inc. The Boston-based money
manager oversees $12 billion in assets and bought some of the
Build America bonds. “You are picking up a huge amount of
spread to get a good state general-obligation name.”  Supply Surplus  The  average extra yield  Build America Bonds paid over 30-
year Treasuries was 184 basis points yesterday, according to a
Wells Fargo index. A supply surplus drove the  average yield  on
Build America securities to a seven-month high of 6.22 percent
on Nov. 15, the Wells Fargo index shows. It declined to 6.16
percent yesterday.  The California bonds are rated A1 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its fifth-highest grade, and A- by Standard & Poor’s,
its fourth-lowest level for investment-quality securities.  Quoted at 330 basis points above 30-year Treasuries, the
yield that California is offering for the largest segment of the
Build America debt is five basis points more than corporate
bonds sold Nov. 16 by  El Paso Pipeline Partners LP . Those
securities are rated Ba1 by Moody’s, one step below investment
grade, and BB by Standard & Poor’s, one level lower.  The 30-year Treasury bond yields fell one basis point to
4.28 percent today.  When  Time Warner Cable Inc.  sold $1.9 billion of bonds Nov.
9, it paid 5.875 percent for debt maturing in November 2040, or
180 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. Moody’s Investors Service grades Time
Warner Cable Baa2, its second-lowest investment grade, and
Standard & Poor’s ranks the company an equivalent BBB.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
 Brendan McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  