-- Cameron Wants U.K. Public Holiday for Royal Wedding
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2010-11-18T17:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/cameron-wants-u-k-public-holiday-for-william-s-royal-wedding-to-middleton.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
Britain should have a public holiday to celebrate the wedding of
 Prince William  and  Kate Middleton  next year.  “If it’s in the middle of the week, it would be a very
good idea to have a bank holiday,” Cameron told lawmakers at
the end of a question-and-answer session in Parliament. “Even
if it’s at the weekend, it would be a great idea to have a
national day of celebration.”  No date has been set for the wedding beyond spring or
summer next year. William’s father,  Prince Charles , announced
the couple’s engagement Nov. 16, ending years of speculation
about whether the second in line to the throne would ask the
girlfriend he had been dating since 2003 to marry him.  William proposed to Middleton with his mother’s,  Princess Diana ’s, engagement ring while on holiday in Kenya three weeks
ago. That puts her in line to become the first commoner to be
queen in modern times. The couple, both 28, met while studying
at  St. Andrews University  in Scotland.  Earlier in the 2 1/2 hour session with senior lawmakers,
the prime minister took a swipe at Defense Secretary  Liam Fox ,
who wrote to him before last month’s spending review, warning
against cutting military expenditure too deeply. The letter was
leaked to a newspaper.  Cameron said the agreement on defense spending had been the
hardest to reach of all the ministries. “Leaked letters don’t
help,” he said. “That department does seem to have had a
problem on leaks, which is a problem when it’s the department
responsible for security.”  The prime minister described the Ministry of Defense as “a
bit of a train crash when we took it over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Atkinson at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net  