-- Canadian Dollar Rises From Almost Lowest in November as Stocks, Oil Gain
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-11-18T22:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/canadian-dollar-rises-as-prospect-for-irish-assistance-buoys-stocks-oil.html
Canada’s currency advanced from
almost its lowest level this month versus its U.S. counterpart
as speculation the debt crisis in Ireland will be contained sent
global equities and commodities including crude oil higher.  The loonie, known for the image of the aquatic bird on the
C$1 coin, extended its gain as reports showed Canadian leading
indicators rose last month more than economists forecast and
wholesale sales unexpectedly increased in September. The yield
on the two-year bond rose to its highest level since July.  “Today’s firmer Canadian wholesale trade and leading-
indicator data helped to underpin the overnight move higher,”
 George Davis , chief technical analyst at Royal Bank of Canada’s
RBC Capital unit in Toronto, wrote via e-mail. “With global
equity markets also rallying after recent sharp selloffs,
commodities have been picked up off the floor, creating a risk-
on environment.”  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.6 percent to C$1.0190 per
 U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0246 yesterday, when
it slid to C$1.0262, the weakest level since Oct. 28. One
Canadian dollar buys 98.08 U.S. cents.  The MSCI World Index of equities in developed nations
climbed 1.6 percent. Crude oil for December delivery advanced as
much as 2.4 percent to $82.35 a barrel.  “Against the U.S. dollar, it’s the uptick in equities and
commodities that’s helping the Canadian dollar,”  Michael Leavitt , an institutional-derivatives broker at MF Global
Holdings Ltd. in Montreal, said via e-mail.  Loonie Versus Dollar  The loonie got a boost versus the dollar as Statistics
Canada said wholesale sales unexpectedly rose in September and
its index of leading economic indicators increased last month.  Sales  gained 0.4 percent to C$44.8 billion ($44 billion),
matching the highest prediction in a Bloomberg News survey of 14
economists, which had a median 0.3 percent decrease.  The index of leading indicators rose 0.2 percent in
October, led by stock market gains, after a revised 0.2 percent
September decline. Economists predicted a 0.1 percent increase
based on the median of 11 responses to a Bloomberg News survey.  Government bonds dropped, pushing the  yield  on the two-year
security up five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.63
percent. The price of the 1.5 percent security maturing in
December 2012 slid 9 cents to C$99.77. The yield increased as
much as seven basis points to 1.65 percent, the highest level
since July 27.  The euro rose from almost a seven-week low versus the
greenback as European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials traveled to Dublin to discuss possible aid. The Irish
central bank governor,  Patrick Honohan , said he expects the
country to ask for a “substantial” bailout from the EU and IMF
to rescue its battered banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  