-- Cardinal Health to Buy Kinray for $1.3 Billion to Gain Retail Pharmacies
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-11-18T21:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/cardinal-health-agrees-to-acquire-drug-distributor-kinray-for-1-3-billion.html
Cardinal Health Inc. , the Dublin,
Ohio-based drug distributor, said it plans to buy closely held
Kinray Inc. for $1.3 billion to expand in retail pharmacy
distribution.  The deal may enhance earnings in the fiscal year ending
next June, and will add 12 cents a share or more to adjusted
profit in fiscal 2012, depending on the timing of the closing,
Cardinal said today in a statement. The company expects to
complete the transaction this year or early in 2011.  Kinray, a distributor of both branded and generic medicines
based in Whitestone, New York, primarily operates in the New
York metropolitan area and has annual revenue of more than $3.5
billion, Cardinal said. The acquisition will increase Cardinal’s
retail independent pharmacy base by 40 percent to about 7,000.
It will also boost distribution of generic drugs, which are more
profitable than brand-name therapies.  “Conceptually this makes sense,” said  Helene Wolk , an
analyst at New York-based Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., in an e-
mail today. “Given that the acquisition is fully cash financed,
it should be immediately accretive.”  Cardinal  rose $2.09, or 6.1 percent, to $36.56 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, for the biggest daily
gain since March 10, 2009. The  shares  increased 6.9 percent this
year before today.  Generic Drugs  Independent pharmacies, unlike big-box retailers such as
 Walgreen Co.  and  CVS Caremark Corp. , use distributors such as
Cardinal to buy supplies of generic drugs, said  Ross Muken , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York. The
acquisition will allow Cardinal to improve profitability,
especially after 2012 when many drugs come off patent and open
new opportunities for generic-drug sales, he said in a telephone
interview.  “This is really consistent with our strategic goal of
expanding our customer base,” said  George Barrett , Cardinal
Health’s chairman and chief executive officer, in a telephone
interview. “This gives us a chance for a significant move to
increase that base by over 2,000 pharmacies.”  The transaction “will accelerate the earnings growth of
our core business and give us the opportunity to expand
margins,” Barrett said. “It will be a period of terrific
growth in generics and we hope to participate quite fully.”  Cardinal’s Cash  Cardinal had $2.71 billion in cash and short-term
investments as of Sept. 30, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. Cardinal announced 15 pending or completed
acquisitions in the past five years, with an average size of
$1.04 billion and an average premium of 31 percent, according to
Bloomberg data.  On July 15, Cardinal completed the purchase of Healthcare
Solutions Holding, the parent of P4 Pathways and P4 Healthcare,
for an upfront payment of $517 million, said  Troy Kirkpatrick , a
Cardinal spokesman. Primarily in oncology, Healthcare Solutions
provides services to doctors and drug companies.  Barrett said he plans for grow in specialty pharmacy
services, especially in biologic medicines used in the treatment
of chronic diseases such as cancer. He said the company is also
looking to expand services in ambulatory care and surgery
centers.  Lisa Gill , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York,
said Kinray is a good fit for Cardinal.  ‘More Profitable’  “Investors should be happy” with the Kinray deal, Gill
said in an e-mail. Community-based pharmacies “are much more
profitable than retail chain especially for generics. This
improves Cardinal’s customer mix.”  During July and August, the company bought back $250
million of its shares, the final purchase under a $500 million
authorization, Kirkpatrick said. On Nov. 3, Cardinal authorized
$750 million in new buybacks over three years, he said.  “Our capital-deployment strategy remains the same,”
Barrett said in the interview today. “Our overall approach will
be one of balance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 