-- Cavaliers' Gilbert Uses Mortgage Meltdown Lesson to Handle James's Absence
-- B y   I r a   B o u d w a y
-- 2010-11-18T05:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/cavaliers-gilbert-uses-mortgage-meltdown-lesson-to-handle-james-s-absence.html
Thousands of feet over Lake Erie in
cloudy skies,  Dan Gilbert  sits in his eight-seat Hawker 700 jet
and celebrates a win.  The previous night, his Cleveland Cavaliers opened their
National Basketball Association season with a come-from-behind
victory over the Boston Celtics.  “Let me tell you,” Gilbert said, “when we were down 11,
that was, that could have gone...”  Gilbert, 48, is talking about the third quarter, when the
Celtics were pulling away. The Cavs saved Gilbert from having to
finish the thought by outscoring the Celtics 38-19 in the final
16 minutes to win 95-87.  Gilbert, as  Bloomberg BusinessWeek  reports in its Nov. 22
issue, calls the win the most “emotionally satisfying” of his
five years as team owner, a stint that includes eight playoff
series victories and a 2007 trip to the NBA Finals.  He savors this win above all others because it’s his first
without the man responsible for his greatest loss.  Gilbert was once known mostly as chief executive officer of
 Quicken Loans , the largest online retail mortgage lender in the
U.S., according to National Mortgage News.  He started the company at age 23 with $5,000. He’s now
chairman of Quicken and its parent, Rock Holdings, a Detroit-
based empire of 29 companies ranging from designer sneakers to
private equity.  Yet Gilbert is more recognized these days as the
emotionally unbound owner at the center of pro basketball’s best
soap opera.  Losses  From 1998 to 2003, the Cavaliers lost two-thirds of their
games and, according to “The Franchise: LeBron James and the
Remaking of the Cleveland Cavaliers,” a book by  Terry Pluto  and
Brian Windhorst, about $10 million a year.  Then, in the summer of 2003, the Cavaliers won the first
pick in the NBA draft and chose James, an Akron teen just out of
high school and perhaps the best basketball talent of his
generation.  Cleveland hasn’t won a championship in any major sport
since 1964. Yet the local kid was even better than advertised --
graceful and dominant on the court and an Ohio patriot off it,
infusing the area with pride and packing the Cavs’ arena.  The mania gave then-owner  Gordon Gund , who bought the team
in 1983 for $20 million, the chance to cash out. Gilbert, who
lost a 2004 bid for baseball’s Milwaukee Brewers, put together a
small group of investors and bought the team for $375 million.  Cleveland made the playoffs in each of Gilbert’s first five
seasons and became the third-largest franchise by revenue in the
NBA -- a league that has two teams in the New York area, two in
Los Angeles and one in Chicago.  Then it happened.  ‘The Decision’  On July 8, James, now a global celebrity, announced on
prime-time national television: “I’m going to take my talents
to South Beach and join the Miami Heat.”  Gilbert learned the news at the same time as the rest of
the world. To call it a loss is to underestimate its financial
magnitude and the personal nature of the rejection.  Gilbert began writing an e-mail, 421 words addressed to
“Cleveland, All of Northeast Ohio and Cleveland Cavaliers
Supporters Wherever You May Be Tonight.”  “As you now know, our former hero, who grew up in the very
region that he deserted this evening, is no longer a Cleveland
Cavalier,” he opened.  “Narcissistic” and “cowardly” were on his list of
adjectives.  ‘Heaven’ Can Wait  “Some people think they should get to heaven and NOT have
to die to get there,” Gilbert wrote. “Sorry, but that’s simply
not how it works.”  He guaranteed the Cavs would win a championship before the
departed hero did, adding: “You can take it to the bank.”  Gilbert is calmer now. In a meeting room at Quicken Loans
Arena hours before the season opener on Oct. 27, he explains how
the e-mail poured out of him.  He was at the annual Allen & Co. Sun Valley Conference of
media and tech moguls. After watching the announcement, Gilbert
wrote the letter in a couple of hours as his wife and three of
his five children wandered in and out. He sent it to the Cavs
public relations director, Tad Carper, and a few others in the
front office.  “They looked at it,” Gilbert says, “but I was in a state
where, you know, ‘Post this thing now.’ There were very minor
changes.”  NBA Fine  The response was immediate. ESPN basketball writer Henry
Abbott called it “disastrous.” NBA Commissioner  David Stern 
fined Gilbert $100,000 and called his remarks “ill-advised and
imprudent.”  Jesse Jackson  suggested Gilbert’s comments betrayed
a “slave-master mentality.”  Mark Cuban , owner of the Dallas
Mavericks and a friend of Gilbert’s, applauded.  “Dan’s a passionate owner,” Cuban told reporters, “and
he deserves a lot of credit for putting it out there. Most guys
wouldn’t have the guts.”  For those who have known Gilbert since the early Quicken
days, the letter wasn’t surprising.  “It wasn’t shocking at all, heck no,” says Shawn Krause,
a vice president at Quicken Loans who has been with the company
for 20 years. “If it wouldn’t have come out, I would have been,
like, ‘What’s going on?’”  Lindsay Gross, one of Quicken Loans’ original three
employees and now director of banking, says: “That’s Dan, the
way he’s always been. He’s not afraid to call it out how it
is.”  After four failed attempts by other developers to legalize
casino gambling in Ohio, Gilbert sponsored a ballot initiative
that would allow his Rock Gaming to build casinos in Cleveland,
Cincinnati, Toledo, and Columbus -- and won approval in November
2009.  Detroit Move  He’s also moving 1,700 Quicken Loans employees from
suburban Livonia, Michigan, to an airy new  headquarters  in
Detroit’s downtown.  Gilbert insists that the Cavs, who are  5-5 , will be “much,
much better than most of the pundits are saying,” that the
departure of  James , 25, may have been “a blessing in
disguise,” and that he would buy the team again today for $375
million.  “What we’ve asked Cleveland and the supporters and the
people to support -- and they do -- is the franchise and culture
and the philosophy, knowing those are going to keep changing,
adjusting, improving until we do find a winning formula,” he
says.  Outside the Cavs’ bubble, there are questions about whether
Gilbert can draw fans solely on regional pride.  Different Franchise  “There are some franchises that are there, thick and
thin,” says  Michael J. Cramer , director of the Texas Program in
Sports & Media at the University of Texas at Austin and former
president of the Dallas Stars and Texas Rangers. “Think Cubs.
Think Toronto Maple Leafs. Cleveland is not the Cubs. And
Cleveland is not the Maple Leafs.”  Bob Whitsitt , an NBA general manager with the Seattle
SuperSonics and Portland Trail Blazers for 17 years, now
shepherds sports deals at Whitsitt Enterprises. He’s skeptical
of Gilbert’s confidence.  “Since he bought the franchise, he and his people have
done a really good job,” says Whitsitt. “I also know that once
you own and are involved with it day to day, everything you look
at isn’t half full -- it’s more than three-quarters full.”  NBA rules keep the Cavs’ management from discussing the
team’s financial details. According to the numbers Whitsitt
keeps, the Cavs had paid attendance of about 18,500 per game
last season and an average ticket price of $70, resulting in
$1.3 million in ticket sales per game.  Attendance Drop  Whitsitt saw similar figures with the Trail Blazers when
they were a perennial playoff team. After he left in 2003, the
Blazers failed to make the playoffs for five years running.
Attendance fell by about 5,000 per game, to 15,000.  Whitsitt says it’s reasonable to expect a similar drop-off
in the Cavs’ performance and attendance, which would translate
into a loss of about $350,000 per game, or close to $15 million
over the course of 41 home games each season.  Whitsitt said he anticipates another $15 million in lost
sponsorships, concessions and other ancillary income. Using his
standard 4.67 multiplier for revenue to franchise value, he
said, $30 million in lost revenue equals $140 million in lost
value.  “I’m not trying to suggest, ‘Hey, Dan, your franchise is
falling apart,’” says Whitsitt. “But I am suggesting this
would be the first time ever you’ve had to run a franchise
without LeBron James.”  Ghost  Around the Cavs, James is a ghost. Gilbert refers to him as
“the player that left,” or “that one person.”  The season before James joined the team, the Cavs’ average
attendance was 11,500, with a base of about 2,000 season ticket
holders. For now, the franchise has a cushion before the post-
LeBron era truly begins. Season ticket holders renewed at a
better than 90 percent clip prior to James’ departure.  “Very, very few people, I mean a handful, were demanding
refunds or canceling after the decision,” Gilbert says.  He acknowledges that he’s in uncharted territory.  “There really isn’t a parallel,” he says. “I cannot
recall us ever losing a major, key person in a business. And
it’s magnified by the public nature of the business.”  Gilbert also said he’s weathered bigger storms.  “We’re a survivor of the mortgage Armageddon,” he says of
Quicken Loans.  Markets Lesson  Three years ago, just after the Cavs lost in the NBA
Finals, Quicken was caught in the collapsing credit  markets .  “That taught me,” he said, “never to be naive enough to
think just because you put two decades into something, just
because you do it right  _”  Gilbert entered the mortgage business on a whim. In 1985,
during the summer after his first year of law school at  Wayne
State University  in Detroit, he was working part-time at his
parents’ Century 21 realty office in Southfield, Michigan.  A loan officer walked in one day and suggested he try
brokering mortgages. He brought the idea to his brother, Gary,
and to Gross, a childhood friend and roommate for two years at
Michigan State University, where the two hosted a local cable
show called “Let’s Talk Sports.” Together they started Rock
Mortgage out of a rent-a-suite in Southfield.  “We really didn’t even know what a mortgage was,” says
Gross.  As he learned the business, Gilbert marveled over the
fractured process of closing loans.  “The home-buying process in America to this very day is
broken,” he says. “There is still no protocol on how a closing
should work -- on who calls who with the closing costs, who
delivers what papers to who.”  Call Center  When Rock had grown to 120 employees, Gilbert mentioned the
then brand new company 1-800 CONTACTS as a potential model.
Gilbert believed a call center platform would allow bankers to
go from closing 15 loans every month to 15 every day.  Rock opened its first call center in 1996 and began
offering Mortgage-In-A-Box, a user-friendly loan application
delivered, as promised, in a box.  Behind the product was the organizational effort of
mastering the loan process in 50 states and the myriad
jurisdictions within them.  In May 1998, Gilbert took  Rock Financial  public, raising
$33.3 million in its initial public offering. The following
January, Rock took its Mortgage-In-A-Box concept online and
began offering mortgages at RockLoans.com.  Mortgage Promotion  By that time, Intuit, the California-based developer of
Quicken personal finances software, had established an online
promotional hub for mortgage lenders and wanted to get into
direct lending. Rather than build its own platform, Intuit
interviewed a few dozen firms and selected Rock. In December
1999, Intuit bought the company for $532 million in stock,
renaming it Quicken Loans and keeping Gilbert as chief executive
officer.  Gilbert won’t say what he netted, but the sale to Intuit at
the peak of the tech bubble vaulted him into the category of
people who could buy sports teams.  In December 2001, Gilbert stepped down as CEO at Quicken
and moved to the chairman’s office. The next month he turned 40.
At a party to celebrate both milestones, according to Krause,
Intuit’s then-CEO,  Steve Bennett , approached Gilbert with a
proposition.  “After Dan got done speaking and the thing was over,”
says Krause, “Steve came to Dan and said, ‘Do you want to buy
the company again?’”  Downgrade  Intuit sold Quicken Loans to Gilbert’s Rock Financial for
$64 million in August 2002. Quicken had 2,000 employees by 2005.
Two years later, credit agencies began to downgrade shaky
mortgage assets.  “It was the first Tuesday in August that all hell broke
loose,” says Krause. “Dan sent an e-mail: ‘Get a war room set
up overnight and we’ll be in here first thing tomorrow
morning.’”  Quicken executives, CEO  Bill Emerson  says, stayed in the
room 18 hours a day for eight weeks until they had sorted
through the worst of the problems. The company quickly shifted
to making only loans that matched Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
guidelines.  “We turned this thing around in a week and went from some
of the stuff that we were originating to a 100 percent Fannie-
Freddie shop,” says Emerson.  This year, he says, the company is on pace to surpass last
year’s $25 billion in loans closed. Krause, like Gilbert, sees
parallels between the mortgage crisis and the Cavs’ loss of
James.  ‘Giving Up’  “Companies were in the fetal position, just giving up,”
she says. “Here we hunkered down and looked at what companies
can we buy, what’s the best thing to do. That’s the same that
(Gilbert) did with LeBron. It’s like, ‘OK, this is a
challenge.’”  As an NBA owner, Gilbert studies past teams as case
histories. His current favorite model is the 2004 Detroit
Pistons, a defense-minded team that won a title without a
superstar.  Those Pistons were an anomaly. Teams with players such as
 Michael Jordan ,  Hakeem Olajuwon ,  Shaquille O’Neal ,  Tim Duncan ,
 Dwyane Wade  and  Kobe Bryant  have won 18 of the last 20
championships.  Losing with abandon was how the Cavaliers put themselves in
a position to get James in 2003. That route is chancy at best.
Only teams that don’t make the playoffs get in the lottery for
the top pick in the draft, but the final order is decided by
bouncing Ping-Pong balls.  James’s Ad  Players like James don’t come around every year. In the
Cavs’ locker room after the opening game, James’s image suddenly
appears like a ghost on one of the flat-screen TVs. It’s a new
Nike ad that begins with a re-creation of James’ “Decision”
special on ESPN.  James turns to the camera and asks, “What should I do?”
On his jet the next day, Gilbert says he’s baffled.  “I don’t even get it,” he says, “I really try to
understand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ira Boudway  in New York at 
 iboudway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 