-- McEnroe, Bettors Bank on Federer to Win Record-Tying 5th ATP Finals Title
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2010-11-18T00:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/mcenroe-bettors-bank-on-federer-to-win-record-tying-5th-atp-finals-title.html
Bettors and former Wimbledon
champion  John McEnroe  are banking on  Roger Federer  to win a
record-tying fifth title at the season-ending ATP World Tour
tennis finals.  “I would give Roger more of a chance in a shorter match,”
McEnroe, a seven-time major champion and television commentator,
told the  ATP Champions Tour  website. “I would pick  Rafael Nadal 
to win the Australian Open, because he’s much tougher to beat in
longer matches, if he remains healthy,” the American said.  Matches at the ATP Finals, which start Nov. 21 at London’s
 O2 arena , are played in a best-of-three-set format. Men’s
matches at the sport’s four Grand Slams are played over five
sets. Russia’s  Nikolay Davydenko  won the title last year.  Mats Wilander , a seven-time major champion, agreed that
world No. 2 Federer deserves favoritism at the eight-man event.  “Federer is on to something, he is playing better now than
he has done in the last three or four years,” the Swede told
the website. “It’s not like he had a horrible year.”  Federer won the Australian Open, got to the quarterfinals
at Roland Garros and Wimbledon, and reached the semifinals at
the U.S. Open this season.  The Swiss last won the ATP finals in 2007. He’s the 5-2
favorite at  William Hill Plc  to join  Ivan Lendl  and  Pete Sampras 
as the only men to have won the year-end championships five
times. That means a successful $2 bet would return $5 plus the
original wager.  Former French Open champion  Yannick Noah  picked top-ranked
Nadal to win his first ATP Finals title.  “When this kid is healthy, he is unbeatable because
mentally he is so strong,” the Frenchman said.  Nadal Second-Favorite  Nadal, this year’s French Open, Wimbledon and U.S. Open
champion, follows Federer at 10-3 at William Hill. U.S. Open
runner-up  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia is next at 4-1.  Nadal will start his campaign Nov. 22 against  Andy Roddick 
of the U.S. The Spanish left-hander, who completed the career
Grand Slam of all four tennis majors when he won the U.S. Open
in September, is the top seed in Group A. Wimbledon finalist
Tomas Berdych plays Djokovic in the other match in the group.  Federer was made the top seed in Group B. The record 16-
time major champion starts against Spain’s  David Ferrer  on the
first day. Britain’s  Andy Murray , 5-1 at William Hill, will open
the event Nov. 21 against French Open finalist  Robin Soderling ,
a 9-1 chance.  The  tournament  will be played in a round-robin format, with
the eight players divided into two groups. Each will face the
three others in the group, with the top two in each section
moving into the knockout semifinals.  Ferrer and Berdych are 28-1 longshots, with Roddick 20-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  