-- Yuan Fails `Freely Usable' Test for SDR, IMF Says, Plans Review for 2011
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-11-18T05:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/china-s-yuan-fails-freely-usable-test-for-sdr-basket-inclusion-imf-says.html
The International Monetary Fund said
China’s yuan doesn’t currently meet the “freely usable”
criteria required for inclusion in its Special Drawing Rights
valuation basket made up of the dollar, euro, yen and the pound.  IMF directors urged the issue be kept under  review ,
according to an e-mailed statement, which also signaled that the
fund will next year begin an examination of the indicators used
to select currencies. The IMF this week lowered the weights of
the greenback and yen in the valuation basket for the SDR, its
unit of account, and increased that of the euro based on the
currencies’ share of global trade.  “Although China has become the third-largest exporter of
goods and services on a five-year average basis and has taken
steps to facilitate international use of its currency, the
Chinese renminbi doesn’t currently meet the criteria to be a
freely usable,” the Washington-based IMF said.  The yuan has gained 2.8 percent versus the greenback after
China scrapped a two-year peg on June 19 as policy makers
responded to accelerating inflation and pressure from the U.S.
to allow appreciation. Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People’s
Bank of China, last year said SDRs offer “light in the tunnel
for the reform of the international monetary system.”  “We should get actively involved in the IMF reforms and
China’s importance in international trade should be reflected by
adding the yuan to the SDR basket,” said Zhang Bin, a
researcher at the state-backed Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences in Beijing. He echoed the view of Guo Shuqing, Chairman
of China Construction Bank Corp., the nation’s second-largest
lender, who said on Nov. 16 the yuan should “immediately” be
included.  Weighting Change  The IMF this week cut the greenback’s weighting to 41.9
percent compared with 44 percent after a 2005 review, while the
yen’s fell to 9.4 percent from 11 percent. The euro’s share rose
to 37.4 percent from 34 percent.  The Group of 20 nations will discuss including China’s yuan
in the currency basket for SDRs when it meets next year in
France, Yonhap News reported this month, citing South Korean
officials it didn’t identify.  Nobel Laureate Robert Mundell, an economics professor at
Columbia University, said in June in Hong Kong that the IMF
should consider adding the yuan to the SDR basket. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s chief global economist Jim O’Neill said on April 15
that the Chinese government may let its currency become free
floating within five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
Belinda Cao in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 