-- Odds for China Interest Rate-Increase Higher on Inflation Risk, Aviva Says
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2010-11-18T04:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/china-to-raise-rates-twice-more-seek-yuan-gains-on-inflation-aviva-says.html
China may raise interest rates twice
before the end of the year and tolerate currency appreciation to
slow inflation from a two-year high, according to Aviva
Investors, a unit of the U.K.’s second-largest insurer.  The People’s Bank of China can afford to increase borrowing
costs to douse inflation without the risk of attracting an
influx of cash because it has greater control of its capital
account, said  Peter Monson , a London-based analyst at Aviva
Investors, which manages about $8 billion of emerging-market
stocks and bonds. The yuan may advance 2 percent against the
dollar by the end of June as part of policies to help counter
higher costs of imported goods, he said.  “The PBOC needs to increase the pace of rate hikes to help
manage inflation expectations which have surely shot up over the
past week or so,” Monson, who tracks currencies and banks in
developing economies, said in an interview late yesterday. “The
probability of a 50 basis-point hike before year-end has
definitely risen.”  China’s cabinet yesterday said it may impose temporary
price controls on “important daily necessities” and production
materials. A statistics bureau report on Nov. 11 showed
inflation accelerated to  4.4 percent  in October from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since September 2008.  The central bank on Oct. 19 unexpectedly raised the one-
year lending rate by 25 basis points to  5.56 percent , and lifted
the  deposit rate  by the same margin to 2.5 percent. Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan also boosted banks’ reserve-requirement ratio,
after a record 9.6 trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion)  credit boom  in
2009 helped propel China past Japan as the world’s second-
largest economy.  Capital Inflows  Two-year interest-rate swaps, which exchange the one-year
official savings rate for a fixed payment, climbed 72 basis
points since Oct. 19 to 3.20 percent, implying traders are
pricing in more than a full percentage-point increase in the
deposit rate in a year.  “There is a strong chance we will get two rate hikes
before year-end to help stem credit growth and to manage
expectations,” Monson said. “In addition, I think there will
also be further reserve hikes. Another tool is that allowing
yuan strengthening would help subdue inflation from imported raw
materials.”  Yuan Appreciation  The yuan has appreciated 2.8 percent since June 19 after
the central bank ended a two-year peg to the dollar. It traded
at 6.6415 as of 12:30 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trading System. The currency may climb to 6.60
by year-end and to 6.5 by June, Monson said.  “Yuan appreciation will continue, given that China has
greater control of its capital account,” he said. “This
enables the PBOC to maintain control over the renminbi fix. It
means China can continue to increase rates without the same
concern on capital inflows that most emerging markets are
struggling to deal with.”  Investors plowed $13.8 billion of cash into equity funds
dedicated to China this year through Nov. 10, the single largest
recipient by country, Barclays Capital Plc wrote in a Nov. 12
report, citing  EPFR Global  data. The amount is equivalent to a
32.2 percent share of inflows to Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 