-- China Unicom Says It Will Introduce Self-Developed Smartphone by Year-End
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-18T09:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/china-unicom-says-it-will-introduce-self-developed-smartphone-by-year-end.html
China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. , the
nation’s only mobile operator offering  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone,
said it will sell a smartphone developed in-house and called the
“UPhone” by the end of this year.  The UPhone will run on a “totally new” operating system
developed based on Linux, Zhang Zhijiang, head of the company’s
technology department, said in an interview today at the Mobile
Asia Congress in Hong Kong. The phone is being developed with
Okwap, Huawei Technologies Co. and  ZTE Corp. , he said.  Chairman  Chang Xiaobing  has delivered four straight
quarters of  profit  drops as he failed to capitalize on Unicom’s
iPhone exclusivity and a third-generation wireless network that
analysts say is superior to that of the industry leader,  China
Mobile Ltd.  In the third quarter, Beijing-based Unicom added
about 38 percent fewer 3G users than China Mobile even after
rolling out the iPhone 4.  “I would view this as a negative, given that China
Unicom’s W-CDMA network is supposed to have the advantage over
the other telcos and because of the mature handset supply
chain,” said  Bertram Lai , head of research at CIMB-GK
Securities in Hong Kong. “What happened to the iPhone super-
high-end subscriber in China?”  The limited details released by Unicom today make the
UPhone sound more like a low-end smartphone rather than a
product comparable with the iPhone, said  Paul Wuh , a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Samsung Securities Co.  Alphabet Phone  Unicom’s Zhang said the name of the device is a deliberate
reference to the iPhone and other competing products such as
Lenovo Group Ltd.’s LePhone.  “U means Unicom and ‘phone’ is just for phone,” Zhang
said. “We just wanted to compare with the iPhone and LePhone.”  Unicom  shares  gained 1.3 percent to close at HK$10.76 in
Hong Kong trading. Shenzhen-based ZTE rose 3.9 percent to
HK$29.35.  The UPhone is the second collaboration between Unicom and
ZTE this month, after they paired up to launch the online store
“WoStore” to sell mobile applications in China and Hong Kong.
The companies described WoStore as serving “all open smartphone
platforms except for iPhone.”  Unicom is more than a year behind its larger rival in
developing a smartphone operating system after China Mobile
released its Open Mobile System, or OMS, based on  Google
Inc. ’s Android software last August. That was followed by a
line of compatible devices called Ophones.  It remains to be seen how much support from handset vendors
Unicom’s new operating system will get, said  Wendy Liu , a Hong
Kong-based analyst with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “We need to see the adoption rates and how much backing
Unicom and its vendors put behind this product,” Liu said. “It
is Unicom’s effort toward being something more than a mere
provider of data capacity, which is the nature of its deal with
Apple.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  