-- China to Give Local Governments More Power on Taxes, Finance Minister Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-19T04:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/china-to-give-local-government-power-on-taxes-finance-minister-xie-writes.html
China will give local governments
more say on how much taxes they collect, Finance Minister Xie
Xuren wrote in a  commentary  published on the website of Qiushi,
the official magazine of the Communist Party.  “For general local taxes, the central government will
allow provincial governments to adjust categories and rates of
taxes, as well as give them the power to exercise tax relief,”
Xie wrote in an article addressing changes to China’s tax system
in the five-year plan starting in 2011.  The overhaul has the potential to help local governments
pay for expenses such as education while reducing their
dependence on land sales and loans. Local governments collect
about 30 percent of China’s overall  revenue , the state-run
 Shanghai Securities News  said today.  China’s tax structure is partly responsible for the
country’s rapid economic growth because local governments must
build factories and other revenue-generating projects, said
Zhang Junkuo, head of the development strategies department at
the State Council’s Development Research Center.  “These can create more taxes, and more tax means more
revenue for local governments,” Zhang told reporters yesterday
in Beijing.  The government in Beijing will keep control over central
taxes to “maintain the overall national interest,” Xie wrote
without elaborating. China’s central taxes include those at
customs and levies on centrally-owned state companies. Personal
income tax, property tax and land appreciation tax are local
levies.  The government will also alter the resources tax and
collect environmental protection taxes to conserve more
resources, according to Xie.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  