-- Clinton Prepares to Propose Blueprint for More Staff, Conflict Prevention
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-11-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/clinton-to-offer-blueprint-for-more-staff-conflict-prevention.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
will soon release a blueprint for the State Department’s future
that envisions expanding its staff and putting a new emphasis on
preventing conflicts.  The agency’s first Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development
Review lays out how a department still oriented to a 1945 world
order will cope with rising powers such as India and the end of
ideological blocs like the Warsaw Pact of communist countries.  The review is a high priority for Clinton, who wants more
funding so that development and diplomacy are on a par with
defense in U.S. foreign policy. She points to Afghanistan, where
she has tripled the number of State Department staff as the U.S.
military prepares to withdraw, and Iraq as examples of why her
agency needs to change. Clinton considers the increased
resources crucial even in a time of budget constraints.  In Iraq, “civilians are going to be picking up a lot of
the work that used to be done by the military,” she said in
Oct. 6 remarks. “So I am trying to put our diplomacy and
development on an equal level” to make the case to Congress for
greater resources.  “Until we can really embed the ideas that I am putting
forward, we’re not going to have the kind of robust diplomatic
and development systems that we need,” Clinton said. “I am
determined to do all I can during my secretariat to accomplish
that.”  More Hiring  A draft copy of the report says the State Department and
the  U.S. Agency for International Development  will increase
hiring and will work to draw on expertise in other government
offices before using contractors. Embassy chiefs of mission will
get more decision-making power, and the agencies will develop
frameworks to better respond to disasters.  Conflict prevention will become a core mission, the draft
report said. The State Department will also build “a new global
architecture of cooperation” and engage more intensely with
regional blocs.  Clinton has already invested time in that goal, most
recently on a two-week trip to Asia this month in which she
represented the U.S. as it joins the East Asia Summit, a 16-
nation forum.  The draft report says the administration will
institutionalize strategic dialogues with emerging powers -- an
effort already under way with India, with meetings in November
2009 and in June.  Multilateral Partnerships  Building ties to multilateral institutions is another
priority, in part to deal with such new transnational tensions
as the competing energy claims in the South China Sea.  In a Nov. 8 discussion at the Council on Foreign Relations,
 Eric Schwartz , assistant secretary of state for population,
refugees and migration, said such multilateral partnerships
would help to ease the burden on the U.S. when disasters strike,
such as the earthquake in Haiti in January and the recent floods
in Pakistan.  “The response needs to be, generally speaking, an
international response,” he said.  The State Department recognizes that most humanitarian
crises “don’t have humanitarian solutions,” Schwartz said. The
agency also has to increase its capacity to address political
and security issues in countries at risk of conflict, he said.  “That has been one of the major objectives” of the about-
to-be-completed review process, Schwartz said. “We have to do
both, to deal with prevention and conflict response, and also
continue to enhance our capacity to respond when those tools
just don’t do the trick,” he said.  The draft report says some changes are already under way,
many will be launched in the next year and others will require
“a longer period.”  A release date for the report hasn’t been set.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  