-- CLSA Sees Indian Stocks Doubling as Infrastructure Spending Boosts Growth
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2010-11-18T03:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/clsa-sees-indian-stocks-doubling-as-infrastructure-spending-boosts-growth.html
India’s benchmark stock index is on
course to double as spending on infrastructure such as roads and
airports sustains economic growth, according to CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets.  The Bombay Stock Exchange  Sensitive Index , or  Sensex , has
advanced 14 percent this year to 19,865.14 on Nov. 16, the best
performer and most expensive among the world’s 10 biggest
markets. The $1.3 trillion economy may expand 8.5 percent in the
year ending March 31, the fastest pace in three years, the
central bank forecast on Nov. 2.  “The infrastructure-growth cycle suggests that India
should be growing at these rates for the next five years, and
this growth should see the Sensex at 40,000,” CLSA’s strategist
 Christopher Wood , who was ranked second in Asia by Institutional
Investor in a 2010 survey, said in an interview yesterday in
Gurgaon, near New Delhi. The forecast is dependent on “how soon
issues in the Western world are resolved,” he said.  India needs $1 trillion of investment in infrastructure
including roads and ports between 2012 and 2017, double the
estimated spending in the previous five years, to narrow the gap
with China, according to the government Planning Commission.
China’s economy, which was about the same size as India’s $183
billion in 1980, has swelled close to $5 trillion, four times
that of India, after it boosted public spending.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  yesterday added 0.5 percent,
rebounding from the biggest drop in four months the European
Union and International Monetary Fund prepared to scan the books
of Ireland’s  banks  in a prelude to a possible aid package to
stem Europe’s widening fiscal crisis.  Irish Turmoil  The Irish turmoil marks a new stage in the sovereign debt
crisis that was triggered by Greece and threatened to break the
euro region apart in May, forcing the EU to set up a 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) rescue fund.  Stocks on the Sensex are valued at  18.8 times  earnings, the
most expensive in Asia and among the BRIC markets that also
include Brazil, Russia and China. The multiple compares with
13.3 times for Brazil’s  Bovespa Index , 7.7 times for Russia’s
 Micex Index  and 16 times for China’s  Shanghai Composite Index .  “I don’t think there is an asset bubble in India yet,”
Wood said. “My basic point is that with the economy growing at
this rate, we should focus on domestic demand areas.”  He recommended financial, infrastructure finance and cement
companies, declining to name any. “I will have the banks in my
portfolio because they lend to infrastructure,” he said.  Stock markets in the biggest developing nations may double
as the U.S. Federal Reserve’s monetary stimulus sends
valuations back to their 2008 peak,  Dylan Grice,  a global
strategist at Societe Generale SA, said in a report last month.
Emerging-market valuations could go “much further before they
could be considered seriously stretched,” Grice said.  Tactical Cut  CLSA has advised investors to “tactically” pare their
overweight on Indian stocks as rising commodity prices,
particularly oil, pose a “short-term threat,” while sticking
with the market for the long term, Wood said. The Sensex has
retreated 5.4 percent from the Nov. 5 record of 21,004.96 on
concern China will raise interest rates and impose price
controls as food and energy boost the cost of living.  The four lenders on the Sensex, including State Bank of
India and ICICI Bank Ltd., are among the gauge’s top ten
performers this year. The Bombay Stock Exchange  Bankex  index has
surged 42 percent this year.  Cement production by companies such as  Ambuja Cements Ltd. ,
a subsidiary of Holcim Ltd., the world’s second-largest maker of
the building material, rose 5.2 percent in September from a year
earlier after a 1.6 percent gain in August, according to
government data.  Long-Term Key  “The long-term key macro-economic variable to focus on in
India is infrastructure,” Wood said. “So long as
infrastructure is happening, India will grow at 8 percent to 9
percent.”  India’s finance ministry estimates that India produces
about 10 percent less  electricity  than it needs, and roads,
which account for 65 percent of the nation’s cargo, are plagued
by single lanes and irregular surfaces. Infrastructure spending
accounts for just 4 percent of India’s gross domestic product
compared with 9 percent of GDP in China, according to CLSA.  It’s “reasonable” to expect  growth  to return to a
“robust” average of 9 percent before the global financial
crisis, Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said on Nov. 14. India
is in a position to sustain “high economic growth in the coming
decades,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rajesh Kumar Singh  in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
 Rajhkumar K Shaaw  in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  