-- Comcast Names Greenblatt to Head NBC Entertainment
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-11-18T18:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/comcast-names-bonnie-hammer-chairman-nbcu-cable-entertainment.html
Robert Greenblatt , former
programming chief at CBS Corp.’s Showtime network, will become
chairman of NBC Entertainment after  Comcast Corp.  assumes
control of the TV, film and theme-park company.  Greenblatt will be responsible for the broadcast network’s
prime-time and late-night programming, business affairs,
marketing, public relations, scheduling and NBC Universal Media
Studios,  Stephen Burke , Comcast’s chief operating officer and
NBC Universal’s incoming head, said today in a memo.  The challenge for Burke, 52, and Greenblatt will be to
boost ratings at NBC, which ranks last in viewers again this
season behind  CBS Corp. ,  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC and News Corp.’s
Fox. Investors will be looking for better programming and
increasing advertising revenue, said  Christopher King , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. Profit at the
company’s cable channels rose 22 percent in the third quarter.  “We think we’ve developed a structure that organizes the
company in the smartest way possible,” Burke said in the memo
to employees. “We are beginning our leadership announcements
now because with the anticipated close of the deal nearing, we
want to give everyone enough time to begin to think about the
specific opportunities and challenges they will face beginning
the day of the close.”  Greenblatt replaces  Jeff Gaspin , who will leave the company
once the merger is complete.  Bonnie Hammer  and  Lauren Zalaznick  will add to their
existing NBC Universal jobs. Hammer, who oversees USA and Syfy
networks, will take on Comcast’s E! and G4 channels. Zalaznick,
who is responsible for women-oriented offerings like Bravo and
Oxygen, adds the Spanish-language network Telemundo, Style and
websites DailyCandy and Fandango.  Regulatory Approval  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable television company, is
acquiring a 51 percent stake in NBC Universal from  General
Electric Co.  by paying $6.5 billion in cash and contributing
cable channels worth $7.25 billion to a joint venture that will
own the entertainment company.  The deal is awaiting regulatory approval. Philadelphia-
based Comcast expects the green light by yearend, Chief
Executive Officer  Brian Roberts  said on Oct. 27.  Burke has been working for almost a year to assemble his
executive team, cherry picking some NBC and Comcast talent and
bringing in new faces like Greenblatt,  After leading Comcast’s E! Network, among others,  Ted Harbert  will take control of NBC’s business side. Harbert will
oversee broadcast advertising sales, the NBC station group,
domestic TV syndication and NBC affiliate relations.  Jeff Shell ,
the head of Comcast’s programming group, will oversee NBC’s
international business based out of London.  Comcast rose 20 cents to $20.59 at 1:22 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The  shares  had risen 21 percent
this year before today.  GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, gained 28 cents to
$16.09 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 