-- Rangel Should Be Censured, House Ethics Panel Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-11-19T00:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/congressman-rangel-should-be-censured-house-panel-in-ethics-case-decides.html
The U.S. House ethics committee
today recommended the full chamber censure Democratic
Representative  Charles Rangel , who admitted mistakes while
seeking “fairness and mercy” for violating House rules.  The 9-1 recommendation by the committee, which is equally
split between Democrats and Republicans, goes to the full House
for action after the Thanksgiving holiday. Rangel, of New York,
was found by an ethics subcommittee to have committed 11
violations of House rules. Censure is a mid-level form of
punishment.  The committee also recommended that Rangel be instructed to
pay back taxes on rental income he earned from a villa in the
Dominican Republic.  Rangel, the former House  Ways and Means Committee  chairman,
asked the ethics panel to make clear “that any action taken by
me was not with the intention to bring any disgrace on the House
or to enrich myself personally, or considered by counsel to be
corrupt.”  The subcommittee on Nov. 16 found that Rangel, 80, violated
House rules by using congressional stationery and staff to seek
donations for an  academic center  named for him at City College
of New York, by filing erroneous financial-disclosure
statements, failing to pay taxes for 17 years on rental income,
and by using a rent-controlled apartment as a campaign office.  Opposition to Censure  While ethics committee Chairwoman  Zoe Lofgren ’s
announcement of the censure recommendation didn’t specify how
each lawmaker voted, Representative G.K. Butterfield, a North
Carolina Democrat, said earlier that he wouldn’t support that
such a sanction of Rangel.  “The facts of this case do not warrant a censure,”
Butterfield said before the committee met in secret to decide on
punishment.  “I was not trying to criminally hide anything from the IRS
or the Congress,” Rangel told the committee. “I wasn’t hiding
anything; it just wasn’t properly recorded.”  In paying his income taxes, “I paid whatever the
accountant told me to pay,” he said.  Lofgren, a California Democrat, said that under committee
standards, a reprimand would be appropriate for “serious
violation” of House rules, censure for “more serious
violations,” and expulsion for the “most serious violations.”  A censure would be a blemish on Rangel’s 40-year record in
the House, though it wouldn’t keep him from continuing to serve.  ‘Public Trust’  “Public office is a public trust,” committee counsel
Blair Chisam said in recommending censure. Rangel “violated
that trust.”  Rangel, elected Nov. 2 to a 21st House term, stepped aside
as chairman of the Ways and Means Committee in March after the
ethics panel said he broke House rules by accepting corporate-
sponsored travel.  He was accompanied to today’s meeting by Representative
 John Lewis , a Georgia Democrat who told the committee Rangel was
a “patriotic American” and a “good and decent man.”  Ethics committee member  Jo Bonner , an Alabama Republican,
said Rangel “once wielded one of the most powerful gavels in
town,” and yet showed “so little regard and respect” for the
House or his constituents.  In a statement issued before today’s meeting, Rangel said,
“There can be no excuse for my acts of omission.” He said, “I
made numerous mistakes. But corruption and personal enrichment
are certainly not part of my mistakes and the committee’s chief
counsel made that abundantly clear.”  ‘Drop of Fairness’  “I hope my four decades of service merit a sanction that
is in keeping with and no greater than House precedents and also
contains a drop of fairness and mercy,” Rangel’s statement
said.  Rangel walked out of the ethics subcommittee’s Nov. 15
hearing on his case after the panel rejected his request for a
delay to allow him to hire a new lawyer. He attended today’s
meeting without a lawyer.  Rangel would be the first lawmaker sanctioned by the full
House since Ohio Democrat  Jim Traficant  was expelled in 2002
following his conviction in criminal court of taking bribes and
kickbacks. The last House members censured by the full chamber,
in 1983, were Representatives Gerry Studds, a Massachusetts
Democrat, and Daniel Crane, an Illinois Republican, for sexual
misconduct with House pages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 