-- Copper Advances for a Second Day as Dollar Weakens on Irish Bailout Talks
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-11-18T13:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/copper-advances-for-a-second-day-as-dollar-weakens-on-irish-bailout-talks.html
Copper rose for a second day in New
York and London as the dollar weakened, spurring demand for
commodities as an alternative investment, on the prospect of a
European Union-led bailout for Ireland.  Equities advanced and the euro strengthened as Irish
Finance Minister Brian Lenihan said the government is prepared
to ask for a rescue package for its banks. Copper traded on the
Comex in New York slid the most since June on Nov. 16 on concern
demand might weaken as China moves to curb inflation, after
climbing to a 30-month high five days earlier.  “The reality is that China remains strong and is not
likely to weaken significantly,” said  David Thurtell , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London. “There was very strong
consumer demand for base metals at the lows yesterday,” he
said, calling declines earlier in the week “a panic by funds
and traders trying to lock in something for the year.”  Copper for delivery in March added 7.3 cents, or 2 percent,
to $3.807 a pound at 8:02 a.m. on the Comex. Copper for delivery
in three months climbed 2.1 percent to $8,363 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange. All of the six main metals traded on
the LME gained, with lead advancing the most.  The U.S. Dollar Index, a six-currency gauge of the
greenback’s strength, slid as much as 0.8 percent. A weaker
dollar also makes commodities priced in the currency cheaper in
terms of other monies. Raw materials from crude oil to sugar
advanced.  Talks in Dublin  “Despite that relief rally, markets will remain focused on
the debt restructuring/bailout negotiations in Dublin today,”
said  Chris Weafer , Moscow-based chief strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp.  EU and International Monetary Fund officials jet into
Dublin today as the Irish government edges closer to accepting a
bailout for its national finances and the banking system. Dollar
weakness is “just a symptom of the easing of Ireland jitters,”
Citigroup’s Thurtell said.  Orders to draw copper from LME inventories, or canceled
warrants, have reached 9.7 percent of stockpiles, the highest
level since 2009’s second quarter, according to Thurtell. That
poses a risk of removal of a substantial portion of stocks from
warehouses, potentially resulting in a severe shortage, he said.  Canceled warrants fell 0.6 percent to 34,775 tons today,
daily exchange figures showed. LME copper stockpiles were little
changed at 360,600 tons.  Mine Strike  A strike at Anglo American Plc and Xstrata Plc’s Collahuasi
copper mine in Chile entered a 14th day, with operations running
normally. The company yesterday raised a bonus offer to workers
in a bid to end the strike at the mine. Concern that the
stoppage might restrict production helped to drive prices to a
record.  Figures due at 10 a.m. New York time may show improvements
in a gauge of the U.S. economy’s outlook and manufacturing in
the Philadelphia region. The index of U.S. leading indicators
probably rose 0.5 percent in October, and the Philadelphia
Federal Reserve Bank’s general economic index gained to 5 this
month, said economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the LME rose 0.5
percent to $2,287 a ton. Authorities in Guinea, the world’s
largest bauxite exporter, deployed army and police forces amid
violence sparked by the disputed outcome of a runoff
presidential election. Bauxite is the ore used to make aluminum.  United Co. Rusal, the biggest producer of the lightweight
metal, said its Guinean activities were operating normally.  Tin added 2.1 percent to $25,275 a ton. Prices reached a
record $27,500 on Nov. 9. The metal has jumped 49 percent this
year, leading advances on the exchange, after production was
disrupted in Indonesia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.  Nickel was little changed at $21,530 a ton, lead gained 2.4
percent to $2,320.25 a ton and zinc advanced 2.2 percent to
$2,160 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 