-- Cotton Output in China to Decline 5.5% to 6.36 Million Tons, Agency Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-18T07:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/cotton-output-in-china-to-decline-5-5-to-6-36-million-tons-agency-says.html
China’s cotton output may drop
5.5 percent this year after low-temperatures and rain affected
planting and development of the crops, according to a report by
state researcher  Cncotton.com .  Production may fall to 6.36 million metric tons as planted
area planted and yield fell 1.1 percent and 4.4 percent,
respectively, from last year, said a report by the researcher
posted on the website of the State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission.  Cotton prices in New York have surged 69 percent this year
as demand in China gained, and inventories plunged in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest exporter. Production in China is forecast by
the U.S. Department of Agriculture to trail domestic demand for
the 12th straight year, pushing the nation’s stockpiles to the
lowest level since 1995.  “This forecast will ultimately lend more confirmation to
those who believe the market is fundamentally bullish,” Dong
Shuzhi, manager of cotton at Shanghai Jinhuicheng International
Trade Co., said by phone.  Output of cotton in Xinjiang, China’s biggest producer, may
fall 6 percent while yield may decline 7.7 percent, the
Cncotton.com report said without elaborating.  The report is a preliminary forecast, and those involved in
the cotton sector should “overcome the urge to speculate and
operate conservatively,” it added.  Price Curbs  Still “at the moment the market is more preoccupied with
policy uncertainties,” Dong said. Global commodities from
copper to cotton and soybeans plunged after China’s Premier Wen
Jiabao said on national television Nov. 16 the State Council was
drafting a plan to slow inflation and curb speculation in
commodities. Yesterday the government said it may impose
temporary curbs on prices.  Cotton for May delivery on the Zhengzhou Commodity Exchange
fell as much as the daily 5 percent limit to 26,100 yuan today
and closed at 27,430 yuan. The contract has plunged nearly 20
percent from the record 33,720 yuan a ton on Nov. 11 after the
government said it would curb speculation in the commodity.  Cncotton.com is run by China National Cotton Reserves
Corp., a state-owned company administered by SASAC.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  