-- Cotton Soars Exchange Limit as Cold Weather, Rain May Damage China Crops
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2010-11-18T20:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/cotton-soars-exchange-limit-as-cold-weather-rain-may-damage-china-crops.html
Cotton rose by the exchange maximum,
halting a slump from last week’s record, as adverse weather may
reduce output this year in China, the biggest user of the fiber.  China’s production may fall to 6.36 million metric tons,
down 5.5 percent from a year earlier, according to a report by
state researcher Cncotton.com. The Asian nation bought 43
percent of U.S. exports in the week ended Nov. 11, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said today. Cotton prices in New York
have surged 71 percent this year as mounting demand in China
outpaced dwindling global stocks.  “The fundamentals are reasserting themselves,” said  John Flanagan , the president of Flanagan Trading Corp. in Fuquay-
Varina, North Carolina. “We’re going to try to go back up to
where we were before.”  Cotton for March delivery rose the exchange limit of 5
cents, or 4 percent, to settle at $1.2915 a pound at 2:43 p.m.
on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, the biggest gain since Oct. 26.
The fiber climbed to a record $1.5195 on Nov. 10.  The U.S. exported 491,382 bales of upland cotton last week,
up 14 percent from the previous week and more than double the
sales from the same week in 2009, the USDA said.  In a Nov. 9  report , the USDA said demand in China would
outpace supply by 17 million bales in the year ending July 31.
The nation will import 15 million bales this season, up 38
percent from a year earlier, the agency said.  A bale weighs about 480 pounds, or 218 kilograms.  China Price Controls  China’s cabinet yesterday said the nation may take measures
to counter the quickest inflation in two years. Price limits on
food and tougher punishments on speculators in agriculture
futures are being considered, the China Securities Journal
reported, citing an unidentified person.  Cotton is also responding to “weakness in the dollar,”
 Mike Stevens , an independent trader in Mandeville, Louisiana,
said in an e-mail.  The  dollar  dropped against a basket of major currencies,
enhancing the allure of commodities as an alternative
investment. The euro rebounded against the greenback on optimism
that a bailout for Ireland will ease the region’s debt concerns.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 commodities
climbed as much as 2.5 percent, after falling for two straight
days on concerns that China would take steps to slow its
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  