-- Crude Oil Rises a Second Day on Optimism Over Fuel Demand, Irish Bailout
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-11-19T01:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/crude-oil-rises-a-second-day-on-optimism-over-fuel-demand-irish-bailout.html
Oil rose for a second day in New
York because of optimism fuel demand will rebound in the U.S.
because of an improved economic outlook and as Ireland moved
closer to a European Union-led financial bailout.  Futures were up 1.8 percent yesterday, paring the biggest
weekly decline since September, after Ireland’s central bank
governor said he expects the country to seek help, strengthening
the euro and boosting commodities. Prices also gained as reports
showed that the index of U.S. leading indicators rose for a
fourth month and jobless claims gained less than forecast.  “We’ve been worried about two major issues in Ireland’s
debt concern and Chinese rate rises,” said  David Taylor , a
market analyst at CMC Markets Ltd. in Sydney. “There was no
news of any rate rise coming out of China which has helped the
market a bit, but more importantly it looks like Ireland is
going to accept a bailout.”  The December contract increased as much as 65 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $82.50 a barrel, in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $82.28 at 11:24 a.m. Sydney
time. Yesterday, it gained $1.41 to $81.85 a barrel after
declining for four days. The more-actively traded January
contract climbed 44 cents to $82.86. Prices are up 3.7 percent
this year.  The U.S. reports provided “a little bit of optimism” in
the economy, Taylor said. “The initial jobless claims were
better than expected.”  Oil is down 3.1 percent this week because of Europe’s debt
concern and amid speculation that China, the world’s biggest
energy-consuming country, will raise interest rates.  Ireland Rescue  Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said in an
interview with state broadcaster RTE yesterday he expects the
country to ask the EU and the International Monetary Fund for
“tens of billions” of euros to rescue its banks.  Prices also rose as manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded in November at the fastest pace this year as
orders, sales and employment surged.  An Energy Department report on Nov. 17 showed crude
supplies unexpectedly fell 7.29 million barrels last week to
357.6 million. It was the biggest weekly  decline  since August
2009. Imports tumbled 2.8 percent to 7.86 million barrels a day,
the lowest level since December.  Brent crude for January settlement rose $1.77, or 2.1
percent, to $85.05 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell in Singapore at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  