-- Daily Mail Says BSkyB Database in News Corp. Hands Endangers Newspapers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/daily-mail-says-bskyb-database-poses-threat-to-newspapers.html
Daily Mail & General Trust Plc  said
competitor News Corp.’s proposed takeover of British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc may hurt rival U.K. newspapers as the
publisher gains access to the broadcaster’s subscriber list.  “BSkyB has this wonderful payment mechanism, and to use
that payment mechanism to push newspapers is a real threat to
the newspapers,” Daily Mail Chief Financial Officer  Peter Williams  said today at a Morgan Stanley conference in Barcelona,
Spain.  Executives from Daily Mail and other British newspaper
publishers and other media outlets sent a joint letter in
October to U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable  calling for the
government to challenge News Corp.’s proposed bid. Companies
signing the letter, including the British Broadcasting Corp. and
phone operator  BT Group Plc , said a takeover would harm the
public interest by reducing media plurality.  BSkyB, Britain’s biggest pay-TV operator with 10 million
customers, has access to client details which could also be used
when selling newspaper subscriptions, Williams said. “We are
protecting the industry by signing that letter,” said Williams,
57, who retires in March.  A News Corp. spokeswoman declined to comment.  News Corp. , the New York-based media company controlled by
 Rupert Murdoch , owns Britain’s biggest tabloid, the Sun, which
backed the Conservative party of Prime Minister  David Cameron  in
Britain’s general election. In addition to owning the Times and
Sunday Times newspapers in the U.K., News Corp. already  holds 
about 39 percent of Isleworth, England-based BSkyB.  The government has directed the U.K. telecommunications
regulator Ofcom to investigate the proposal. The deadline for
submissions to the watchdog is tomorrow.  News Corp.  formally asked the European Union on Nov. 3 to
approve the bid, which the company valued in June at 700 pence a
share, or 7.8 billion pounds ($12.5 billion). The final price
will be negotiated once the deal receives regulatory approval.  In the short term, a takeover of BSkyB by News Corp. may
benefit the Daily Mail because other newspapers in Britain face
more direct competition from News Corp.’s U.K. titles,
Williams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in Barcelona via 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  