-- Daiwa Real Estate to Boost REIT Assets by 25% in 3 Years, President Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2010-11-18T08:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/daiwa-real-estate-to-boost-reit-assets-by-25-in-3-years-president-says.html
Daiwa Real Estate Asset Management
Co., a unit of Japan’s  second-biggest brokerage , plans to boost
assets in its real estate investment trust by a quarter to about
350 billion yen ($4.2 billion) as it bets the nation’s property
market has bottomed.  Daiwa Real Estate took over  Daiwa Office Investment Corp. 
from indebted K.K. DaVinci Holdings in August and has cut
borrowing costs by more than half,  Akira Yamanouchi , the
president of the Tokyo-based firm said. The REIT plans to
achieve its target in two to three years by increasing
borrowings to buy office buildings, he said. It had about 280
billion yen worth of buildings in its fund as of Sept 2.  The property unit of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. is seeking
to lure investors by arguing that the yield on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange REIT Index offers attractive return after the gauge
dropped about 60 percent from a 2007 peak. The difference
between 10-year Japanese government bonds and REITs stood at 5
percent as of Oct. 31, almost five times the 1.1 percent in the
U.S., and about three times the 1.7 percent in Europe, according
to an estimate by Credit Suisse Securities (Japan) Ltd.  “When you compare the yield spreads in Japan and those in
other international markets, Japan offers the best return
ever,” Yamanouchi said in an interview on Nov. 16. “We expect
that trend to continue and we are keen to capture growth in this
market.”  Daiwa’s REIT  has added 5.2 percent since the announcement
of Daiwa Securities’ takeover on Aug. 16, and closed up 4.9
percent at the 3 p.m. in Tokyo. That compares with a 14 percent
gain by the  REIT  index since the acquisition.  Need to Prove  “Investors are not sure where and how the asset manager
can buy properties,” said  Mikio Namiki , an analyst at Mizuho
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Once they prove that they have
channels to acquire real estate, I expect this REIT to do
well.”  Daiwa Real Estate plans to boost total assets by borrowing
as much as 50 percent of the value of buildings, from 29.8
percent currently, Yamanouchi said. The trust in July set a
target to increase its assets to 310 billion yen within a year,
according to the company.  More Japanese companies may sell buildings they own as they
adopt the International Financial Reporting Standards, which
require real estate assets to be adjusted to reflect their
market value each reporting period, Yamanouchi said. The
Financial Services Agency allowed companies to start adopting
the standard this fiscal year and may make it compulsory for
listed companies as early as 2015.  “We expect companies to sell non-income producing
buildings because of IFRS,” he said. “We also plan to buy
office buildings from real estate companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
 Katsuyo Kuwako  in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  