-- De Niro Starts $25,000 Artist Prize in Father’s Name
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-11-18T16:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/de-niro-establishes-25-000-u-s-artists-prize-in-father-s-name.html
Actor  Robert De Niro  has established
a $25,000 annual prize for a U.S. painter in honor of his artist
father.  Robert De Niro Sr. died in 1993 of prostate cancer on his
71st birthday. He exhibited paintings and drawings in galleries
and museums. He also worked in a frame shop, taught and did
commissioned portraits, among other jobs.  At a reception Wednesday evening at his father’s last
studio, in Soho, De Niro said that he aimed to aid artists and
promote his father’s art.  “This is my calling, if you will, to make sure my father’s
legacy is there forever,” he said at the reception, which was
catered by Nobu, the Japanese restaurant he co-owns.  De Niro has kept the studio -- where his father had a
Maltese dog named Napoleon, two parrots and a white rabbit named
Bunny -- intact. It is filled with De Niro Sr. paintings and
drawings, as well as his bicycle.  “When my father passed away, I wanted to preserve this for
my kids, to know what their grandfather did,” De Niro said.  The first Robert De Niro Sr. Prize, for so-called mid-
career artists, will be awarded next year. It will be
administered by the  Tribeca Film Institute , a nonprofit co-
founded by De Niro.  The prize will recognize “an American artist whose work
over a considerable period of time has made a significant
contribution to the field of painting,” according to a press
release. A committee of “distinguished individuals in the art
world,” as yet unnamed, will select the winner from among three
finalists, the release said.  After some two years of U.S. Bankruptcy Court proceedings,
the actor recovered paintings by his father from Salander-
O’Reilly Galleries. Proprietor  Lawrence B. Salander  pleaded
guilty to fraud and grand larceny this year and was sentenced to
six to 18 years. He’s at Downstate Correctional Facility, in
Fishkill, New York, according to the website of the New York
State Department of Correctional Services.  DC Moore Gallery  now represents the De Niro Sr. estate.
“The way he abstracted figures and simplified them is really
beautiful,” the gallery’s president, Bridget Moore, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 