-- Debt Wall Crumbles by $393 Billion as Fed Eases Junk Alarm: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2010-11-18T18:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/debt-wall-shrinks-393-billion-as-fed-eases-financing-fear-credit-markets.html
The wall of bonds and loans maturing
in the next four years has been slashed by 34 percent to $756
billion as the threat eases that a wave of junk-rated debt
coming due will cause a surge in defaults.  Six Flags Entertainment Corp. , the theme-park operator that
exited bankruptcy in May, met lenders this week to raise $950
million of loans and  El Paso Pipeline Partners LP  sold $750
million of notes, both to refinance borrowings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Since the start of last year, U.S.
companies have cut the amount of debt due through 2014 by $393
billion, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  While the  Federal Reserve ’s plan to bolster the economy by
buying bonds has drawn criticism from governments around the
world, Republican lawmakers and some economists, its policies
have helped employers obtain credit by reducing defaults and
averting even higher unemployment. Sales of junk, or high-yield,
bonds have already surpassed last year’s record, while loans to
the neediest borrowers are up 79 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “It’s been a great time for issuers to tap the market to
extend debt maturities,” said  Martin Fridson , global credit
strategist at BNP Paribas Asset Management in New York, who
started his career as a corporate debt trader in 1976. “That’s
created a virtuous circle because it improves credit outlook and
reinforces the flow of capital into the high-yield markets.”  Companies are tapping the junk market at an  accelerating
pace , taking advantage of borrowing costs that this month
reached the lowest in more than five years. Of this year’s
record $256.5 billion of junk-bond issuance, 38 percent has been
sold since Sept. 1, Bloomberg data show. Sales have exceeded the
2010 weekly average of $5.62 billion for 10 straight weeks.  Falling Default Rate  The U.S. default rate for junk-rated debt is expected to
drop to 2.2 percent by this time next year, from 3.6 percent in
October, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report.  “If there’s more liquidity, that would reduce the risk of
default,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital
Markets Group in New York.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt was unchanged at 167 basis points, or 1.67
percentage point, up from 164 on Oct. 31, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.64 percent.  The market for junk bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and
lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, stabilized yesterday, a
day after relative yields rose the most since May.  Spread Unchanged  The extra yield investors demand to hold speculative-grade
bonds rather than government debt was unchanged at 589 basis
points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s US High
Yield Master II Index. On Nov. 16, spreads rose 22 basis points,
the most since they expanded 27 basis points on May 25.  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. , the drugmaker
formerly known as Biovail Corp., plans to sell $700 million of
senior unsecured notes to repay a loan, according to a company
statement distributed today by PR Newswire.  First Data Corp.  bonds rose after the credit-card processor
said it will be able to “stomach” the interest expense on debt
that will require cash payments in 2012.  First Data’s $3.71 billion of 10.55 percent bonds due in
September 2015 rose 5.25 cents to 90 cents on the dollar as of
11:24 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The cost of insuring against an Irish default fell,
snapping two days of increases, after the nation got closer to
accepting an international rescue that would calm markets.  Irish Bailout  Credit-default swaps insuring Ireland’s government bonds
dropped 15 basis points to 509, according to CMA. Irish central
bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said he expects the country to ask
for a bailout from the European Union and the International
Monetary Fund worth “tens of billions” of euros to rescue its
battered banks.  Credit-default swaps typically drop as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. They pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA, the Italian mobile-phone
company whose parent is merging with VimpelCom Ltd., increased a
loan by 500 million euros ($682 million) to 3.93 billion euros
and scaled back a planned bond issue by the same amount,
according to three people with knowledge of the sale.  The Rome-based company will now raise 2.7 billion euros
from the biggest issue of high-yield bonds in Europe this year,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms are
private.  Bernanke Meeting  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  traveled to Capitol Hill
yesterday for a closed-door session with a group of senators to
defend the monetary easing. He said the Fed was determined to
control inflation and said the securities purchases will
encourage job growth, according to lawmakers.  Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican who serves on
the Banking Committee, said Nov. 16 he favored confining the
Fed’s mandate to promoting price stability, though he said that
wouldn’t preclude bond purchases by the central bank. Corker
became at least the third Republican in Congress to support
trimming the Fed’s responsibilities to eliminate its task of
promoting full employment.  A group of 23 economists, money managers and former
government officials issued an open letter to Bernanke on Nov.
15 saying the central bank’s planned bond purchases “risk
currency debasement and inflation” and won’t boost employment.
That broadside capped attacks from conservatives including  Sarah Palin  and  Glenn Beck . Finance officials in Germany, China and
Brazil have also criticized the Fed’s move.  Fed Purchases  The U.S. central bank has kept its benchmark rate in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 in a bid to
stimulate the economy and open debt markets after the worst
credit seizure since the Great Depression. This month the
central bank said it would buy $600 billion more of Treasuries
to prevent deflation.  Consumer prices rose less than forecast in October and
housing starts dropped. The unemployment rate is 9.6 percent,
Labor Department figures showed Nov. 5.  Speculative-grade companies owe $756 billion in junk bonds
and leveraged loans maturing through 2014, when the so-called
maturity wall peaks, according to a Nov. 12 report by JPMorgan
analysts led by  Peter Acciavatti  in New York. Institutional
loans are mainly bought by non-bank lenders such as CLOs, mutual
funds and hedge funds.  ‘Negligible’ Maturities  “As it now stands, high-yield bond and loan maturities
over the next two years are negligible, with only $180 billion
coming due in 2011 or 2012,” they said in the report. “With
this year’s record high-yield new-issue volume, the amount of
debt coming due in 2013 and 2014 continues to decline.”  Investors poured a net $23.3 billion into U.S. junk-bond
funds this year through Sept. 30, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global. In 2009, they
contributed a record $31.8 billion.  Six Flags, based in Grand Prairie, Texas, is offering to
pay 375 basis points more than Libor on the six-year term loan,
according to a person familiar with the sale. JPMorgan is
arranging the six-year debt, which is being marketed to yield
about 5.9 percent.  El Paso Pipeline Partners of Houston sold $750 million of
notes in a two-part offering on Nov. 16 that included 5- and 30-
year bonds, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will be used to
refinance debt and help pay for acquisitions, according to a
statement.  Junk Bonds  Borrowers planned to use proceeds from 67 percent of the
$216 billion of sales of speculative-grade bonds this year
through the end of October to refinance debt maturities,
according to data compiled by S&P.  Junk bonds have returned 14 percent this year after gaining
57.5 percent in 2009, the market’s best performance on record,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields
have risen to 7.82 percent after falling to 7.55 percent on Nov.
9, the lowest since 2004.  The  S&P/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index  reached 92.72
cents on the dollar on Nov. 9, the highest since May 3. The
 index , which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-
lien leveraged loans, fell 0.16 cent yesterday to 92.06 cents on
the dollar. The index has returned 8.05 percent this year.  Banks arranged $304 billion of leveraged loans this year,
the most since 2007, Bloomberg data show.  “Net issuance is not nearly as strong as the issuance
number might imply,” said  Matt Toms , the Atlanta-based head of
U.S. public fixed income investments at ING Investment
Management, which oversees more than $500 billion in assets
globally. “What companies have done is extended quite
dramatically” their debt maturities, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  