-- Dell Profit Tops Estimates as Component Prices Dip
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2010-11-19T00:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/dell-sales-miss-analysts-estimates-profit-increases-on-component-prices.html
Dell Inc. , the world’s third-largest
supplier of personal computers, reported quarterly profit that
exceeded analysts’ predictions as declining component prices
resulted in fatter margins. The shares rose in late  trading .  Profit excluding certain items was 45 cents a share in the
fiscal third quarter, topping the 32-cent average of  estimates 
in a Bloomberg survey. Sales rose 19 percent to $15.4 billion,
Round Rock, Texas-based Dell said today in a statement. That
missed the average projection of $15.7 billion.  Dell benefited from cheaper prices for parts and buoyant
company spending. That helped overcome a slowdown in demand from
consumers concerned about unemployment and the pace of economic
recovery. Chief Executive Officer  Michael Dell  aims to lessen
the company’s dependence on PC sales by spending more on
research and development and using  acquisitions  to build up the
server, data storage, networking gear and services businesses.  “The biggest surprise isn’t the revenue weakness but the
upside in earnings,” said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher
& Co. in San Francisco. He has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  Dell rose as much as 9.7 percent in late trading to $15. It
had climbed 32 cents to $13.67 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The  shares  have lost 4.8 percent this year.  Profit margins were helped by “pricing discipline” that
kept Dell from cutting product prices too much, Chief Financial
Officer  Brian Gladden  said in an interview after the results.
Components costs such as computer memory and hard drives have
dipped, and that also shored up profitability, he said.  Companies ‘Refresh’  Those parts prices may “bottom out” in the fourth quarter,
Gladden said on a conference call. He also expects a “more
challenging competitive environment” in the current period.  Companies are upgrading aging information-technology
systems and adopting the most recent iteration of Microsoft
Corp.’s, operating system, Windows 7, which is helping Dell sell
more PCs and server computers, Michael Dell said on the call
with analysts.  “The refresh cycle is very much in full bloom,” he said.  Excluding certain expenses,  gross margin , the percentage of
sales remaining after subtracting production costs, was 20
percent in the third quarter, compared with 18.3 percent a year
earlier.  Dell gets about 80 percent of its  revenue  from corporate
and government sales, which fared better than its consumer
business. Sales to large companies rose 27 percent, and small
and mid-sized businesses gained 24 percent. That outpaced a 4
percent increase for consumers.  Time to Invest  The company can use cash from enterprise sales to fund new
products and develop additional distribution channels for its
less popular consumer machines, said  Richard Shim , an analyst at
Framingham, Massachusetts-based research firm IDC.  “If they’re going to invest in the consumer business, this
is the time to do it,” Shim said.  Net income  in the third quarter more than doubled to $822
million, or 42 cents a share, from $337 million, or 17 cents, a
year earlier.  Operating expenses climbed 19.5 percent, and spending on
research and development increased 5.2 percent to $163 million.  While corporate demand is robust, consumers are holding off
on computer purchases, Gladden said in the interview.  “We saw some demand weakness” among households, he said.  Full fiscal-year sales growth will be near the midpoint of
a 14 percent to 19 percent range set earlier this year, Dell
said. That indicates sales of about $61.6 billion, short of the
$62.2 billion average of analysts’ estimates.  Disappointment in Mobile  Ron Garriques , who runs the division that focuses on mobile
devices, will leave the company in January, Dell said yesterday.
Sales of Dell’s smartphones and Streak tablet computers have
been “disappointing,” said  Shaw Wu , an analyst at Kaufman Bros.
in San Francisco.  “They’ve been arguably out of position” in laptop sales
because they don’t sell as much through retail outlets or in
fast-growing emerging markets, said Wu, who rates Dell shares
“hold” and doesn’t own any.  Global PC shipments rose 11 percent in the third quarter,
down from 22 percent in the second quarter. Dell trails  Hewlett-
Packard Co.  and Acer Inc. in global PC shipments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  