-- Delta Air’s Fleet-Service Workers Turn Down Union
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-11-18T21:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/delta-air-s-fleet-service-workers-turn-down-union-update1-.html
Delta Air Lines Inc.  and Northwest
Airlines baggage and cargo handlers rejected an organizing drive
by their industry’s largest union in a victory for the carrier’s
efforts to keep its workforce mostly nonunion.  The vote was 5,569 workers against representation and 5,024
in favor, Atlanta-based Delta, which acquired Northwest in 2008,
said in an e-mailed statement today. The International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers said it was
investigating claims that Delta illegally interfered in voting.  The 13,000 fleet-service workers are the second major group
at Delta to reject a union this month, after U.S. labor rules
passed since President Barack Obama took office relaxed the
threshold for approval. In results announced Nov. 3, 51 percent
of the 20,000 flight attendants at Delta and Northwest voted
against union representation.  “Whether voting under old rules or an entirely new voting
process, Delta people have decided to preserve the Delta
culture,” the airline said. “Our people are ready to move
forward. It’s time for unions to respect this will of the
majority.”  The union in a statement today said it’s “investigating
allegations of widespread illegal election interference.”
 Joseph Tiberi , a  Machinists  spokesman, declined to provide
details.  Any such claims the union makes “would be ridiculous,”
said  Betsy Talton , a Delta spokeswoman. “The IAM often files
interference claims after employees vote against them.”  Seventh Vote  It was the seventh union representation vote for Delta
employees, resulting in no unions for about 40,000 workers, the
carrier said.  The Delta vote follows a change by the U.S. National
Mediation Board that lets a majority of votes cast determine the
outcome. Previously, abstaining from casting a ballot was
counted as a “no,” setting a higher threshold for unions to
win approval.  The election stems from Delta’s purchase of Northwest
Airlines Corp., which had more union employees. Before that
acquisition, Delta’s pilots and flight dispatchers were the only
groups represented by unions, about 12 percent of its workforce
at the time.  Delta is the world’s second-largest carrier, behind United
Continental Holdings Inc.  The airline rose 56 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $13.77 at
4:09 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . The
shares have gained 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  