-- Denmark Needs More Reserves as Krone Peg `Ammunition,' Bank Governor Says
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2010-11-18T11:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/denmark-needs-more-currency-reserves-to-defend-krone-s-peg-bernstein-says.html
Denmark’s central bank needs more
foreign currency reserves to defend the krone’s peg to the euro,
Governor  Nils Bernstein  said.  “We need all the ammunition to keep this peg and to be on
the safe side,” Bernstein said in an interview today in Oslo.
“We don’t have any specific target number, but our lesson
during the crisis was that the reserve was worryingly low.”  The global financial crisis forced the central bank to
deplete its currency stock in defense of the peg until it
dwindled to a low of 132 billion kroner ($24 billion) in October
2008. The bank has since more than trebled its  reserves  to 422
billion kroner at the end of October this year as it builds up a
buffer against future speculative attacks.  When asked whether reserves need to be higher than before
the crisis, he answered “yes, yes, yes.”  In the first 10 months, the bank increased foreign currency
reserves by 47.6 billion kroner, compared with a 137 billion
kroner increase in the same period last year. When reserve
transactions have been inadequate to steer the peg, the bank has
resorted to changing interest rates.  Bernstein, who raised the rate the bank pays on
certificates of deposit twice last month, may need to increase
interest rates further in December as the European Central
Bank’s liquidity exit threatens to send euro area short-term
rates higher, reducing the spread to their Danish counterparts.  ECB Exit  The difference between the three-month Copenhagen interbank
offered rate and the equivalent European rate narrowed to 19
basis points today, compared with a high of 85 basis points in
January, according to Bloomberg data. A narrower spread reduces
the extra return on the krone, putting pressure on the peg.  Bernstein said earlier this month the bank tracks the
spread closely.  “The difference between Danish and European money market
rates is significant for the exchange rate,” he said in an e-
mailed reply to questions received Nov. 8. “The central bank
continually keeps an eye on these spreads, but the only thing we
target is the exchange rate.”  The krone was trading at 7.4547 against the euro at 12:37
p.m. in Copenhagen, compared with an average rate of 7.4459 over
the past year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  