-- Discovery's Chief Sees `Extremely Strong' Ad Market, Considers UKTV Deal
-- B y   S i m o n   T h i e l
-- 2010-11-18T18:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/discovery-s-chief-sees-extremely-strong-ad-market-considers-uktv-deal.html
Discovery Communications Inc. , the
owner of cable television’s Discovery Channel and Animal Planet,
is predicting rising fourth-quarter advertising sales and may
consider buying Virgin Media Inc.’s stake in UKTV.  “Fourth-quarter advertising is extremely strong, it’s
stronger that it was a year ago,” Chief Executive Officer  David Zaslav  said in an interview at a Morgan Stanley conference in
Barcelona, Spain, today. “Everyone is in the market, financial,
companies, automotive companies, almost all across the board.”  Discovery’s sales outside the U.S. are especially
“strong” and the company will get $550 million “or more” in
operating cash flow from its international business this year,
he said. Asked about the company’s expansion plans, Zaslav said
“our first preference would be to deploy our capital for
strategic purposes, including acquisitions.”  Zaslav, who took over the Silver Spring, Maryland-based
cable programmer in January 2007, is focusing on expanding sales
outside the U.S. “‘We look at it, we are very opportunistic,’’
he said when asked about whether he is interesting in Virgin
Media’s stake in British broadcasting company, UKTV.  Discovery  and Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. are seeking
to team up with the British Broadcasting Corporation to buy the
UKTV stake for 350 million pounds ($561 million), the  Sunday
Times  reported in October, without saying where it got the
information. ITV Plc and  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc  may
also be interested in buying the 50 percent holding in UKTV, 
the Sunday Times said.  ‘Strong Asset’  ‘‘The UKTV asset is a strong asset, we already have 13
channels in the U.K.,’’ Zaslav said today, without giving more
details. ‘‘But we are not going to buy just to pick up assets,
we’re going to buy something where we believe we can get faster
and more sustainable growth.’’  Last month, BBC Worldwide, the BBC’s commercial arm, sold
to Discovery Communications its 50 percent interest in the
television channels joint venture Animal Planet and Liv for $156
million. The two broadcasters at the same time extended a
strategic programming relationship for co-productions and
program acquisitions for North America by two years to 2014.  The BBC deal was a ‘‘great opportunity to deploy some our
capital with assets that we know,’’ Zaslav said today. ‘‘Let’s
see whether we can do more deals like the BBC or other deals.’’  Other regions where Discovery Communications wants to
expand are emerging markets including Latin America, Russian,
India and Turkey, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Thiel  in Barcelona at  sthiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  