-- Dynegy Bargained With Blackstone for Higher Bid Price
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2010-11-18T21:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/dynegy-says-it-bargained-with-blackstone-for-higher-offer-price.html
Dynegy Inc.  squeezed more money from
 Blackstone Group  LP and negotiated a lower breakup fee in the
hours leading up to a scheduled shareholder vote on the private-
equity firm’s $604.5 million takeover bid.  After persuading Blackstone to raise its bid, Dynegy
postponed the vote yesterday until Nov. 23 to give  shareholders 
time to consider the $5-a-share offer, the Houston-based power
producer said in a filing today. The filing provides details of
Dynegy’s negotiations with Blackstone before the revised offer
was announced.  With its two largest shareholders opposing the transaction
and saying it undervalued the power company,  Dynegy  told
Blackstone on Nov. 15 that the initial offer of $540 million, or
$4.50 a share, was at “material risk” of shareholder defeat,
according to the filing. That evening, Blackstone agreed to
raise its offer to $4.75 a share and proposed a $50 million
breakup fee if shareholders still rejected the bid and Dynegy
accepted another offer within 18 months.
      Dynegy  said in the filing it continued to bargain for a
better price. The night before the scheduled vote, Dynegy’s
board accepted the terms now before shareholders: $5 a share
with a $16.3 million breakup fee if shareholders reject the deal
and the company is sold for more than $4.50 a share within 18
months.  Blackstone requested a delay in the vote to give
shareholders more time to consider the new offer, according to
the filing. The vote now closes at 4 p.m. Houston time on Nov.
23.  Shareholder Opposition  Blackstone’s revised offer values  Dynegy  at about $4.77
billion, including debt. Dynegy  rose  9 cents, or 1.8 percent, to
$5.15 at 4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Dynegy’s largest shareholders, billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  and hedge fund Seneca Capital, weren’t swayed by the
higher price and reiterated their opposition. Seneca has said
Dynegy is worth more than $6 a share now and as much as $18 once
a better economy revives prices for power from its plants.  Delaying the vote “is a blatant effort to thwart the will
of shareholders,” Seneca said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. Shareholders would’ve rejected the $5-a-share offer,
Seneca said. Terms of the breakup fee are “virtually
unprecedented” and a “violation of fiduciary duty,” the hedge
fund said.  Blackstone’s demand for a breakup fee in exchange for a
higher bid is “perfectly normal,”  Elizabeth Nowicki , who
teaches and researches breakup fees at Tulane University Law
School in New Orleans, said yesterday in an interview.  Breakup Fee Strategy  The higher bid signals to potential rivals that Blackstone
considered its first offer a bargain, and the breakup fee
insulates it against a bidding war, she said.  Dynegy, worth almost $19 billion before it tried to swallow
Enron Corp. in 2001, closed at an eight-year low of $2.78 a
share the day before Blackstone’s original offer was announced
on Aug. 13. Interest payments consumed about 12 percent of
Dynegy’s third-quarter sales, contributing to its  sixth
quarterly loss  in two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 