-- Leading Indicators, Factory Data Signal U.S. Economic Recovery Picking Up
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-18T21:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/leading-indicators-index-in-u-s-climbs-0-5-as-fed-prepares-easing-moves.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
rose for a fourth consecutive month, manufacturing surged in the
Philadelphia area and jobless claims climbed less than forecast,
signaling the world’s largest economy is accelerating.  “The soft patch is behind us,” said  Jonathan Basile , an
economist at Credit Suisse in New York. “We have a little more
momentum. Employers are getting a bit more optimistic about the
outlook and don’t need to cut costs like before.”  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.5 percent for a second consecutive
time, capping the biggest back-to-back gains since February-
March, the New York-based research group said today. Factories
in the  Philadelphia region  expanded at the fastest pace of the
year, and the number of workers seeking  jobless benefits  over
the past four weeks fell to the lowest level in two years.  The reports indicated Federal Reserve efforts to spur
growth will yield results in coming months as rising stock
prices, near record-low interest rates and an improving job
market help Americans repair tattered finances. The data gave
stocks, already climbing after Ireland moved closer to getting a
financial rescue from the European Union, a further boost.  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  rose 1.5 percent to
1,196.69 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. Treasury securities
dropped, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to
2.90 percent from 2.88 percent late yesterday.  Philadelphia Factories  The Philadelphia Fed’s  general economic index  rose to 22.5,
the highest level since December, from 1 a month earlier.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering
eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware. The
gauge was forecast to increase to 5, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Applications  for unemployment insurance payments rose by
2,000 to 439,000 in the week ended Nov. 13, Labor Department
figures showed. The four-week moving average, a less volatile
measure than the weekly figures, dropped to 443,000, the lowest
level since September 2008.  “Growth is reaccelerating in the fourth quarter after a
pretty sluggish third quarter,” said  Jim O’Sullivan , global
chief economist at MF Global Ltd. in New York. “It’s still
unclear how much it’s reaccelerating and how far the
acceleration will go.”  Estimates for the leading index of the 58 economists
surveyed ranged from gains of 0.2 percent to 0.8 percent.  Rates, Stocks  The biggest contributors to the increase in the leading
indicators were the spread between short- and long-term interest
rates, and increases in stock prices and the money supply.  Bernanke said on Oct. 15 that more monetary stimulus would
be warranted because inflation was too low and unemployment was
too high. This month, policy makers announced a plan to purchase
another $600 billion in Treasury securities to keep interest
rates low and prevent inflation from slowing much more.  Shares rallied last month in anticipation of the Fed’s
action. The October gain in the S&P 500 followed an 8.8 percent
increase prior month, the best back-to-back performance in more
than a year.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.1 in October after no
change the prior two months. The gauge tracks payrolls, incomes,
sales and production -- the measures used by the National Bureau
of Economic Research to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The index of lagging indicators increased 0.1 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
unemployment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and consumer  credit .  Index Breakdown  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits, consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times. The Conference Board estimates new
orders for consumer goods, bookings for capital goods and money
supply adjusted for inflation.  Gains in incomes and stock prices are helping households
repair tattered finances more than a year into the economic
recovery that began in June 2009.  Bank of America Corp. , the biggest lender in the U.S.,
earmarked $5.6 billion for credit losses in the third quarter,
down from $8.1 billion in the second quarter and $11.7 billion a
year earlier. Net write-offs of uncollectible loans at the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender declined 25 percent.  “Everything we see points to a continued recovery, albeit
a slow recovery,” Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said at a company-sponsored conference Nov. 16.
Commercial lending is starting to turn around and consumers are
spending more on leisure, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net ;
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  