-- Leading Indicators in U.S. Probably Rose by Most in Five Months
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/leading-index-in-u-s-probably-rose-by-most-in-five-months-on-fed-signals.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
probably rose in October by the most in five months on signs the
Federal Reserve was preparing to take additional action to spur
growth, economists said before a report today.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.5 percent, according to the median
of 58 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. Another report may
show  jobless claims  last week held near a four-month low.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, one of the leading
measures, rallied 3.7 percent last month as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues indicated the central bank was ready
to provide more stimulus. Combined with  more cash  in the banking
system, a longer workweek and low borrowing costs, the gains are
helping Americans mend tattered finances and lifting spending.  “The economy is attempting to accelerate from a soft-
patch,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed income strategist at
State Street Global Markets LLC in Boston. “Consumers are
gaining a little bit more confidence in terms of their near-term
outlook for jobs, income.”  The Conference Board’s report is due at 10 a.m. in New
York. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from gains of 0.2
percent to 0.8 percent.  The Labor Department unemployment claims report is due at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Economists  project  the number of
applications increased to 441,000 last week after falling to the
lowest level since July, according to the survey median.  Factory Gains  Another report at 10 a.m. may show manufacturing in the
 Philadelphia  region expanded at a faster pace in this month.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg project the Philadelphia Fed’s
general economic index rose to 5 in November from 1 a month
earlier. Readings greater than zero signal growth.  Bernanke said on Oct. 15 that more monetary stimulus would
be warranted because inflation was too low and unemployment was
too high. This month, policy makers announced a plan to purchase
another $600 billion in Treasury securities to keep interest
rates low and prevent inflation from slowing much more.  Shares rallied last month in anticipation of the Fed’s
action. The October gain in the  S&P 500  followed an 8.8 percent
increase prior month, the best back-to-back performance in more
than year.  The gauge is little changed so far this month amid concern
the central bank is adding too much liquidity, raising the risk
that prices will flare next year.  Breakdown of Index  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims, building
permits,  consumer expectations , the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times. The Conference Board estimates new
orders for consumer goods, bookings for capital goods and money
supply adjusted for inflation.  Six of the seven known components improved in October.
Those pointing to growth were: a positive spread between short-
and long-term interest rates, the increase in stocks, a longer
factory workweek, rising consumer expectations, a drop in the
average number of initial jobless claims, and an increase in
building permits.  As a result, household finances are starting to improve
more than a year into the economic recovery that began in June
2009.  Bank of America Corp. , the biggest lender in the U.S.,
earmarked $5.6 billion for credit losses in the third quarter,
down from $8.1 billion in the second quarter and $11.7 billion a
year earlier. Net write-offs of uncollectible loans at the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender declined 25 percent.  “Everything we see points to a continued recovery, albeit
a slow recovery,” Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said at a company-sponsored conference Nov. 16.
Commercial lending is starting to turn around and consumers are
spending more on leisure, he said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  