-- Obama Health-Care Law Is Unconstitutional, Republican Senators Tell Court
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-11-18T22:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/health-law-opposed-by-republican-senators-in-brief-backing-florida-lawsuit.html
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
overhaul is an unconstitutional exercise of congressional power,
Republican senators said in a brief supporting Florida’s lawsuit
challenging the law.  Requiring people to purchase health care “oversteps the
bounds” of the U.S. Constitution, 32 senators said today in the
filing in federal court in Pensacola, Florida.  The U.S.’s arguments in favor of the law are “harming the
Constitution’s framework by allowing the federal government to
overreach its enumerated powers and invade the legitimate
province of the states,” wrote the senators, including
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell .  U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola will hear
further arguments next month after ruling in October that the
case could go forward. The government’s expansion of powers is
“simply without prior precedent,” Vinson said in October.  In his ruling last month, Vinson allowed Florida to proceed
on its claim that Medicaid would be expanded dramatically and
the states cannot realistically opt out. He threw out Florida’s
claim that the law interferes with the state’s sovereignty as an
employer and the mandate for individuals to get coverage
violates the right to due process of law.  Florida’s suit was joined by 20 states. A separate action
filed by Virginia is before a federal judge in Richmond.  Already, a U.S. judge in Michigan has found the law falls
within the framework of the Constitution, and U.S. District
Judge  Henry E. Hudson  in Richmond, Virginia, has said the trial
courts represent “one brief stop on the way to the Supreme
Court.”  Virginia and Florida each filed lawsuits within minutes of
Obama signing the bill on March 23. The states claim that the
federal mandate to buy health insurance goes beyond Congress’s
authority. The U.S. said the provision is allowed under its
power to regulate commerce because of the $43 billion in unpaid
medical bills absorbed by the market each year.  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 3:10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington
at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 