-- Eastern Europe's Recovery May Stumble on Sluggish Demand, World Bank Says
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2010-11-18T11:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/eastern-europe-s-recovery-may-stumble-on-sluggish-demand-world-bank-says.html
The economic recovery in the
European Union’s eastern members is at risk of being undermined
by a lack of private demand and insufficient fiscal
consolidation, the World Bank said.  “Short-term performance is looking good,” said Kaspar
Richter, senior economist at the bank, in an interview yesterday
in Warsaw. “Without determination to tackle vulnerabilities,
there could be question marks in the mid- and long term.”  The Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, Poland,
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria and Romania will expand a
combined 1.8 percent this year and 3.2 percent in 2011, the
 World Bank  said in a report released today. Latvia and Romania
will be the only economies in the region to contract in 2010,
while growth will be strongest in Slovakia and Poland, according
to the bank.  The 10 formerly communist states that have joined the EU
over the last six years were battered during the global
financial crisis as investment and credit inflows dwindled and
slowing growth slashed tax revenue. Poland, the biggest economy
in the region, fared better as its larger internal market buoyed
consumption even as exports declined, while Latvia was forced to
draw on an international loan after the real-estate market
slumped and consumer spending collapsed.  The strength of individual countries’ recoveries is
reflected by credit-default swap spreads on sovereign debt, the
World Bank said.  Credit-Default Swaps  Poland’s five-year credit-default swaps have declined to
132.715 basis points from 183.415 on June 4. Credit-default
swaps in Hungary, the first EU country to get an International
Monetary Fund bailout in 2008, are at 313.770. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a country or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Government investment spending has stepped in to revive
growth because, in “most countries, private demand is not
strong enough to take the lead and sustain the expansion,” the
bank said in the report. Credit growth to the private sector
remained sluggish, it said.  “Enterprises are unwilling to invest at the moment --
they’re still uncertain about domestic demand,” said Richter.
“And a creditless recovery is an anaemic recovery.”  Sticking to Plans  Governments in the region must continue to narrow budget
deficits, the World Bank said. Plans to combine cuts or freezes
in public-sector wages and reductions in public employment and
to make government expenditure more flexible need more progress,
according to the bank.  “Some of the countries in the region have delayed fiscal
consolidation until next year,” said Richter. “Markets are
extremely sensitive to it.”  A sluggish recovery in western Europe and renewed
volatility in some euro-area economies could also present a
challenge to the easterners’ growth, the bank said. Ireland may
follow Greece as a recipient of external aid as its government
opens the books of the nation’s debt-laden banks to EU and
International Monetary Fund officials today as a prelude to a
possible aid package.  The key risk to the easterners “is a weak recovery in
Europe, as prospects for exports, credit and jobs in the EU10
depend foremost on a strong recovery in the EU15,” today’s
report said. “Another risk is the return of heightened
financial strains in the euro area, in spite of the recent
improvements in European financial markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katya Andrusz  in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  