-- Medicare 23% Pay Cut for Doctors to Be Delayed 1 Month in U.S. Senate Deal
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/medicare-pay-cut-for-doctors-to-be-delayed-for-one-month-under-senate-deal.html
A one-month deal to delay a 23
percent reduction to doctors’ Medicare pay rates will buy more
time for U.S. lawmakers who are seeking to hold off future cuts.  Medicare, the U.S. government health insurance program for
the elderly and disabled, has cost control formulas that demand
the rate cuts. Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who chairs
the Senate Finance Committee, and Senator  Charles Grassley  of
Iowa, the committee’s senior Republican, reached an agreement
that will postpone the doctor pay cut until Jan. 1 from Dec. 1.  Physicians may  withdraw  from Medicare if the scheduled cuts
are imposed, the Chicago-based American Medical Association said
in a Nov. 15 statement on its web site. Baucus and Grassley said
they are working on a one-year solution to provide certainty to
doctors and patients concerned the one-month delay is just a
temporary reprieve.  “We have set a path to ensure seniors and military
families can continue to get quality health care,” Baucus and
Grassley said in an e-mailed statement.  The one-month postponement will cost $1 billion, Baucus and
Grassley said, paid for with savings from planned cuts in
Medicare reimbursement for therapy services. The Senate approved
the plan late yesterday. It still must be passed by the House of
Representatives.  Medicare covers about 46.6 million people, according to the
 Kaiser Family Foundation , a nonprofit research group based in
Menlo Park, California.  The formula that governs  doctor payment rates  began calling
for cuts in 2002, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
In 2003, Congress stepped in and prevented the annual pay
reduction from being imposed. Since then, lawmakers each year
have stopped the planned pay rate cuts.  Because the formula is designed to reduce total
spending from year-to-year, the fee cuts have grown to 23
percent from the proposed 4.8 percent reduction in 2002.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Wayne  in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 