-- Lehman, SunCal, Vertis, American Media: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-11-18T14:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/lehman-suncal-point-blank-arrow-air-network-bankruptcy.html
Bank of America NA was on the losing
end of an opinion in which the bankruptcy judge ruled  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc . is entitled to the return of $500 million
that the bank improperly set off in violation of the so-called
automatic stay.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James M. Peck  said the case was “an
example of asking for more and getting less.” On top of
requiring Bank of America to return the $500 million plus
interest, the judge is scheduling another hearing to assess how
much in sanctions to impose on the bank for violation of the
automatic stay.  Peck explained in his 46-page opinion on Nov. 16 how the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank was one of Lehman’s main
clearing banks. In the ordinary course of business, the account
would sometimes have a negative balance during the course of the
day. Concerned in the summer of 2008 about Lehman’s
deteriorating finances, the bank demanded that Lehman deposit
$500 million into a special account to cover any over advances.  To document the arrangement, there was a note and a
security agreement so the $500 million would secure any over-
advances in the clearing account.  When Lehman filed for Chapter 11, there was no overdraft in
the clearing account. The bank nonetheless set off the $500
million against other obligations owing by Lehman. The bank took
the position that it had a common law right of set off in
addition to the security agreement. The bank also argued that it
could drawn down the $500 million under so-called safe harbor
provisions in bankruptcy law where certain types of securities
transactions are not halted by the automatic stay.  Peck heard the dispute on competing motions for summary
judgment, where both sides said there were no factual disputes,
leaving the judge to decide only questions of law.  Peck came down on Lehman’s side, pointing to the note which
said that the $500 million was collateral for debt arising in
connection with the clearing account. He said the bank had no
right to claim the cash as collateral for any other obligations.  Peck said the result “does include a measure of irony.”
Had the bank only held the money in an ordinary account, a so-
called banker’s lien would have existed and Bank of America
could have set the funds off against any other obligation Lehman
owed.  Peck explained how the bank’s action violated the automatic
stay. He directed that the parties hold another hearing where he
will decide what sanctions to impose on the bank for violating
the stay.  To read Peck’s opinion, click here. The opinion was handed
down in a lawsuit called Bank of America NA v. Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.), 08-1753,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District  New York    Manhattan ).  In another development, Lehman sued Nationsfirst Lending
Inc. on Nov. 15 alleging that the mortgage lender is in breach
of contract for failing to repurchase defective mortgages.
Lehman sued in U.S. District Court in Santa Ana,  California ,
saying there were misrepresentations about borrower’s identities
and occupations. For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in New
York on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later.  The Lehman brokerage operations went into liquidation on
Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage is in the
control of a trustee appointed under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  The Lehman holding company and its non-brokerage
subsidiaries filed a revised Chapter 11 plan and disclosure
statement in April. For details, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  Lehman said it intends on amending the plan in the last
quarter of the year and have the plan approved in a confirmation
order by March.  The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.  Lehman Brothers Inc ., 08-01420, both in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Filings  Vertis and American File Again, Prepacking This Time  Vertis Inc., an advertising and marketing services
provider, filed a prepacked Chapter 11 reorganization last night
in New York when it became clear that the required 98 percent of
debt holders wouldn’t accept so the exchange offer could be
completed out-of-court.  Vertis said in a court filing that more than enough debt
holders already accepted the plan so it can be confirmed. The
plan reduces debt 60 percent, or more than $700 million. The
petition listed assets of $1.49 billion against debt totaling
$1.56 billion.  Debt is comprised of a $115.4 million revolving credit and
a $428.6 million  term loan . There are $495.1 million in third-
lien notes and $258 million in pay-in-kind notes.  Avenue Capital Management, whose affiliates have 59.2
percent of the stock, also hold $120 million of the term loan,
$79.3 million of the third-lien notes, and $146.5 million of the
pay-in-kind notes.  The plan will give holders of the second-lien notes between
8.49 and 8.065 shares of new stock for each $1,000 in debt. The
PIK debt holders are to have 2.46 shares for each $1,000 in
existing debt. In the exchange offer, the new stock would be
issued after a 60,111-to-1 reverse stock split.  Holders of the second-lien debt can also buy up to $100
million in additional equity to be used for further reduction in
company debt. The offering is backstopped.  Vertis said it has commitments for a $175 million revolving
credit and a $425 million term loan to be implemented when the
exchange offer or reorganization is completed.  Second-lien debt holders received a 2.5 percent consent fee
for tendering by Nov. 15. Holders of PIK debt received a consent
fee in the form of an additional 0.82 shares for each $1,000 in
tendered debt.  Previously, Vertis was offering a combination of cash, new
senior secured notes, and stock. First announced in April, the
exchange offer was amended several times. In May, Vertis was
aiming to reduce debt $185 million.  The new filing comes slightly more than two years after
Vertis and American Color Graphics Inc., the third-largest
insert printer in North American, merged by confirming companion
Chapter 11 reorganizations. Completed in August 2008, the
companies’ previous reorganizations reduced their combined debt
by almost $1 billion.  Brentwood, Tennessee-based ACG had $528 million in debt
before the prior bankruptcy while the debt of Baltimore-based
Vertis was $1.7 billion at the holding company. Vertis was the
survivor in the merger.  The new case is In re Vertis Holdings Inc., 10-16170, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan). The
prior cases were In re ACG Holdings Inc., 08-11467, and In re
Vertis Holdings Inc., 08-11460, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  American Media Has Prepack with One Dissenting Class  American Media Inc., the publisher of Star and National
Enquirer, filed a Chapter 11 petition yesterday in New York
along with a reorganization plan already accepted by every class
of affected creditors except holders of $7.5 million in notes
due in 2011. The consumer magazine publisher believes the plan
can be confirmed using the cramdown process.  Boca Raton, Florida-based American Media listed assets of
$668 million against debt totaling $1.23 billion. Borrowed money
is almost $880 million.  American Media is the “most highly leveraged” in the
publishing industry, according to Chief Financial Officer
Christopher Polimeni.  Liabilities include $491 million on a first-lien
obligation, including a $60 million revolving credit and a $431
million term loan. There are $356 million in subordinated notes.  Holders of notes due 2011 are owed $7.5 million while pay-
in-kind notes represent $24.8 million.  The plan calls for the revolving credit to be paid in full
while the term-loan lenders receive 70 percent in cash with the
remainder in second-lien notes, for full payment. Some of the
creditors are providing a backstop where term-loan lenders can
have their new notes purchased for cash in the full face amount.  Holders of the subordinated notes are to have 98 percent of
the new stock for an estimated 53.5 percent recovery. Holders of
the 2011 notes, who rejected the plan, are to have the other 2
percent of the new equity for the same 53.5 percent recovery.  For full payment, holders of the pay-in-kind notes are to
be given a combination of new second-lien notes, new pay-in-kind
notes, or new preferred stock.  American Media said there is about $20 million owing to
trade suppliers. General unsecured creditors are to be paid in
full under the plan.  The debt structure after plan confirmation will consist of
a new $40 million revolving credit and a $385 million first-lien
loan. There will be up to $140 million in new second-lien notes.
Given currently favorable market conditions, American Media
intends for the new first- and second-lien notes to be sold
during the Chapter 11 case with the proceeds in effect held in
escrow.  A court filing says that earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization were $114 million for the fiscal
year ended in March. In the September quarter, net income was
$10 million, the filing said.  American Media has been the subject of several major
transactions over the last decade. It was acquired by Evercore
Partners LLP in 1999 in a $638 million transaction, according to
information compiled by Bloomberg. In 2009 there was a tender
offer where bonds were exchanged for 95 percent of the stock.  A tender offer that began in July for the subordinated
notes was unsuccessful, leading to agreement on the prepackaged
plan. For details on the failed exchange offer, click here for
the Nov. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The case is American Media Inc., 10-16140, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Local Insight Files to Save Preference Claim on Loan  Yellow page publisher Local Insight Regatta Holdings Inc.
filed for Chapter 11 reorganization last night in Delaware, less
than 90 days after secured lenders perfected a pre-existing
security interest in some of their collateral.  In addition to an Internet business, Local Insight
publishes 870 directories for 115 phone companies. Advertising
revenue “declined significantly,” court papers say.  Debt on the Regatta Holdings companies includes a secured
$311 million term loan and a $26 million revolving credit. The
Chapter 11 case will be financed with a $25 million secured
loan, where $7.5 million will be available on an interim basis.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA is agent for the lenders. In addition,
$221 million is owning on senior subordinated notes.  At the Local Insight line of companies there are $258
million in bridge loans now owing to venture capital investor
Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, the controlling shareholder.
The Local Insight companies owe another $214 million on two
issues of subordinated notes.  Trade suppliers are owed $8 million, according to court
papers.  Revenue for six months ended June 30 was $266 million, down
8.3 percent from the same period the year before. In the half
year, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were off 19.7 percent, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. Moody’s said that consumers are moving away
from print to online search tools.  Court papers say the security interest was not perfected on
time against The Berry Co. LLC and is subject to being knocked
out as a preference. Berry is in the Regatta line of companies  Regatta Holdings reported a net loss of $9.2 million in the
first six months this year, an improvement over the $11.3
million net loss in the same period last year.  The case is In re Local Insight Media Holdings Inc.,
10-13677, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Charlie Brown’s Steakhouses Files to Sell in Ch. 11  The owner of  Charlie Brown’s Steakhouse  filed under Chapter
11 last night to sell the business. Controlled by Trimaran
Capital Partners, the company also operates Bugaboo Creek and
The Office restaurants.  Currently, 39 restaurants are in operation. Before
bankruptcy, 47 locations were closed.  Debt includes $70 million owing on a secured term loan and
revolving credit. There is $14 million owing on second-lien
senior subordinated notes and $30 million on a mezzanine loan.  The senior secured lenders are Ableco Finance LLC, Wells
Fargo Capital Finance Inc., and Ally Commercial Finance LLC.  Food supplier  Sysco Corp ., owed $5 million, is listed as
having the largest unsecured claim.  The case is CB Holding Corp., 10-13683, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  SunCal Judge Says Lehman Stay is Sword, Not Shield  The reorganization of SunCal Cos., a California developer,
was put on hold yesterday by the bankruptcy judge in Santa Ana,
California, until the so-called automatic say is modified in the
Chapter 11 case of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Lehman
companies are part-owners and lenders to SunCal projects.  Lehman and SunCal are proponents of competing Chapter 11
plans. SunCal was barred from filing its plan because to do so
would have violated the automatic stay in Lehman’s
reorganization.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Erithe A. Smith issued an opinion
yesterday where she recited the maxim that the automatic stay is
a shield, not a sword. By preventing SunCal from proceeding with
its plan, she said the “Lehman shield is a shield with
blades.” She said that SunCal’s “attempts to penetrate that
shield have been unsuccessful.”  She called a halt to most proceedings the SunCal cases at
least until Feb. 18 when she will revisit the issue and decide
whether the case can go forward.  SunCal has an appeal outstanding in the U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals in Manhattan from a New York bankruptcy court order
refusing to modify the automatic stay in Lehman’s case. Once the
circuit court issues a decision, “all matters should proceed,”
she said.  Meanwhile, Smith sent all the parties to mediation. For a
summary of the competing plans, click here for the Oct. 4
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The automatic stay stops all manner of court proceedings
pertaining to Lehman’s property, even proceedings in another
bankruptcy court. Since SunCal’s plan would affect Lehman’s
mortgages, the Lehman automatic stay precluded SunCal from
moving ahead with its plan.  The SunCal cases with the competing plans involve about 20
companies. SunCal says that Lehman values the properties at $461
million while SunCal says the value is $246 million. Lehman’s
disputed claim is $1.94 billion, SunCal says.  The SunCal Chapter 11 filings occurred in November 2008
after Lehman’s bankruptcy shut off funding for the projects.
SunCal was California’s largest developer of master planned
communities, with 250,000 residential lots and 10 million square
feet of commercial space in 50 projects. Not all SunCal projects
are involved in the cases related to the dueling plans.  The case in which the papers are filed is In re Palmdale
Hills Properties LLC, 08-17206, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Central
District of California (Santa Ana).  Tronox Wins Plan Confirmation, Shareholder Keep Warrants    Tronox Inc . convinced the bankruptcy judge at yesterday’s
confirmation hearing to approve the reorganization plan for the
world’s third-largest producer of the white pigment titanium
dioxide. Confirmation was simplified by a settlement that
converted shareholder opposition into support.  To bring existing shareholders on board, equity holders
received an improvement in their warrant package. Before the
settlement, existing shareholders were to receive two-year
warrants for 5 percent of the new stock exercisable at a price
reflecting a $1.5 million enterprise value.  The product of mediation, the settlement gives shareholders
warrants for 7.5 percent of the new stock. The new package of
seven-year warrants has 3.5 percent based on a $1.4 billion
enterprise value and 4 percent based on a $1.5 billion
enterprise value.  Tronox’s plan is financed in part by a $185 million
backstopped rights offering. For details on Tronox’s plan before
the changes for shareholders, click here for the Sept. 2
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The Chapter 11 petition by Tronox in January 2009 listed
assets of $1.56 billion against debt totaling $1.22 billion.
Debt includes $213 million on a secured term loan and revolving
credit, $350 million in 9.5 percent senior notes, and a $40.7
million accounts receivable securitization facility. Tronox’s
products are used in paints, coatings, plastics, paper and
consumer products. The operations outside of the U.S. did not
file.  The case is In re Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Point Blank Tries New Strategy to Unravel Settlement    Point Blank Solutions Inc ., a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, is using another
procedural tactic in an effort at recovering $35.2 million held
in escrow pending final approval of a class-action shareholders’
suit.  Point Blank filed a motion in mid-September to reject the
settlement agreement as an executory contract. Two weeks later,
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York reversed the lower court
and set aside the settlement. The appeals court said the
settlement violated Sarbanes-Oxley by handing out impermissible
releases.  This week, Point Bank filed a lawsuit in bankruptcy court
demanding that the escrow agent turn over the settlement funds
as property of the bankrupt company.  The committee was supporting the effort at recovering the
funds, hoping the $35.2 million would be available to pay $40
million in unsecured creditors’ claims. The funds also could be
used to pay off $20 million of reorganization financing that
matures on Dec. 31.  The class action was filed for investors who bought stock
between 2003 and 2006. The former chief executive and chief
operating officer were convicted in September of orchestrating a
$185 million fraud.  Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,  Florida , and a second plant in Jacksboro,  Tennessee . Revenue in
2009 exceeded $153 million.  The Chapter 11 petition in April listed assets of $64
million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan paid off by financing for the Chapter
11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to trade
suppliers.  The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Arrow Air Agrees with Committee on Revised Plan Terms  Arrow Air Inc., once the largest cargo airline in Miami,
will be filing a revised Chapter 11 plan, as the result of a
variety of motions filed by the official creditor’s committee,
including one for the appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee.  The committee said it was vehemently opposed to the plan
that it claimed Arrow was attempting to cram down. In response,
the committee filed a motion to appoint a trustee and for
permission to bring suit against MatlinPatterson Global
Advisors, which is both a secured lender and controlling
shareholder of Arrow.  Arrow and the committee reached agreement on a term sheet
for a revised plan. Court records say a revised plan will be
filed. Terms of the plan weren’t spelled out.  Before the settlement, Arrow had a plan on file where
MatlinPatterson would give up $1.6 million of its cash
collateral. As lender, it would not have received any
distribution on the $34.7 million deficiency claim.  The prior plan would have given unsecured creditors, with
claims estimated to total between $30 million and $41 million, a
recovery from 7.6 percent on the low side to 21.9 percent on the
high end. The plan contemplated selling the shell of the
corporation along with the operating certificate for $800,000
cash. The operating certificate allows conducting the business
as an airline.  Also known as Arrow Cargo, the company at one time operated
60 flights a week with four leased DC-10-30 and three leased
B757-200 aircraft. It was acquired in June 2008 by a fund
affiliated with MatlinPatterson. When the Chapter 11 petition
was filed, the funds were owed $72 million on secured and
unsecured term loans.  The case is In re Arrow Air Inc., 10-28831, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  Accentia and Biovest Consummate Chapter 11 Reorg Plan    Accentia Biopharmaceuticals Inc ., majority owner of  Biovest
International Inc ., implemented the Chapter 11 plan yesterday
that the bankruptcy judge in Tampa, Florida, approved in a Nov.
2 confirmation order.  The plan allows stockholders to retain stock, although
diluted by shares issued to secured and unsecured creditors. The
plan was designed to provide full payment for all creditors,
with part of the payment coming from the conversion of debt to
stock.  Accentia filed under Chapter 11 in Nov. 2008. Biovest is
working on the commercialization of BiovaxID, a personalized
cancer vaccine for some types of non-Hodgin’s lymphoma. The
Accentia and Biovest companies are developing drugs to treat
blood cancers and autoimmune diseases such as multiple
sclerosis.  Accentia listed assets of $134.9 million against debt
totaling $77.6 million.  The case is In re Accentia Biopharmaceuticals Inc.,
08-17795, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida
(Tampa).  Prepack Coming  Network Communications Announces Exchange Offer  Network Communications Inc., a publisher of printed and
online real estate information, announced an exchange offer
yesterday for the $175 million in senior unsecured notes due
2013. The company missed the June 1 interest payment on the
notes.  Holders of the notes can swap for new common stock plus up
to $45 million in new senior subordinated pay-in-kind notes. If
noteholders don’t unanimously agree on the swap, the company
said in its statement yesterday that it will complete the
exchange through a so-called prepackaged Chapter 11 filing.  Unless extended, the offer expires on Dec. 15. The offer
also requires consent from secured lenders.  In the most recently filed financial statements, the
Lawrenceville, Georgia-based company reported a $3.8 million net
loss for the quarter ended Dec. 6, 2009, on sales of $33.8
million. For nine months ended Dec. 6, the net loss was $10.5
million on sales of $105.2 million.  Assets at the time were on the books for $362 million, with
total liabilities of $330 million.  Daily Podcast  Loehmann’s, Preference Reform, and the Foreclosure King: Audio  Whether Loehmann’s Inc. will pass quickly through Chapter
11, the need for reform of preference actions, and how
foreclosure king David J. Stern may himself be foreclosed are
discussed in the bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg terminal
and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 