-- Meirelles Favors Credit Card Oversight in Brazil After Panamericano Rescue
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2010-11-18T20:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/meirelles-favors-credit-card-oversight-after-panamericano-rescue.html
Brazil central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  said he favors regulatory oversight of the
credit-card industry after  Banco Panamericano SA  required a 2.5
billion-real ($1.5 billion) bailout last week in part because of
debt owed from its card business.  A task force including officials from the central bank,
Finance Ministry and Justice Ministry is studying whether the
industry needs government supervision. A final decision will be
made by the country’s Congress, Meirelles said.  “At this point it seems that some supervision could be
proper, in the sense that the whole financial system in Brazil
is fully regulated,” Meirelles said yesterday in an interview
from his 20th floor office overlooking Lake Paranoa in Brasilia.
“The case of Panamericano showed how this is important.”  Credit cards in Brazil will climb 13 percent this year to
153.4 million, and help finance transactions worth about 3
billion reais, or 16 percent more than the previous year,
according to estimates from the nation’s credit-card
association.  Silvio Santos , the Brazilian media mogul whose
Grupo Silvio Santos includes Panamericano, sought bailout funds
from the deposit insurance agency to rescue the bank after he
discovered his own credit-card company owed it 400 million
reais, Meirelles said.  The central bank separately uncovered about 2.1 billion
reais in losses from accounting irregularities connected to the
sale of loan portfolios, he said.  Fraud Probe  Federal prosecutors began a fraud investigation after the
central bank alerted them to the accounting irregularities,
Meirelles said.  Panamericano  replaced its board of directors and
named a new chief executive officer as part of the bailout.  The rescue used private money and put all the bank’s losses
on the majority shareholder, Grupo Silvio Santos, without
costing any money to depositors, the government or minority
owners, including state-owned Caixa Economica Federal, Meirelles
said. The insurance fund is financed by banks operating in
Brazil.  “The system worked quite well,” said Meirelles, 65.  Brazil’s credit-card industry currently has no oversight,
while the central bank supervises financial institutions and
pensions funds are regulated by the social security agency.  Redecard SA and  Cielo SA , credit-card processors that trade
in Sao Paulo, rose today as the Bovespa stock index rallied.
Redecard climbed 0.9 percent to 22.18 reais, paring this year’s
loss to 24 percent. Cielo added 0.7 percent to 15 reais and is
down 2.2 percent in 2010. The Bovespa has gained 3.2 percent
this year.  U.S. Congress  In the U.S., Congress created a Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau this year which will research and write rules
for credit-card issuers.  Elizabeth Warren , the special White
House adviser assigned to set up the bureau, has said that among
her top priorities is regulating credit-card disclosures, which
would affect issuers including JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of
America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.  Brazil’s credit-card companies are adopting rules for self-
regulation that should protect consumers, retailers, banks and
card issuers,  Paulo Rogerio Caffarelli , the head of the
country’s Association of Credit Card and Service Companies in
Sao Paulo, said in an interview. If the self-regulation works,
there’s no need for separate oversight, he said.  Caixa, Brazil’s fourth-largest bank by assets, will
provide “all the necessary support” to keep Panamericano
functioning, President  Maria Fernanda Ramos Coelho  said.  Shares Rise  “There is no funding problem for Panamericano to continue
functioning,” Coelho said in an interview at the national
savings bank’s headquarters in Brasilia yesterday. “Caixa will
give Panamericano all the necessary support for its operations
to be carried out normally.”  Panamericano shares fell 0.6 percent to 4.98 reais today.
The stock plunged 37 percent last week after the bank disclosed
the rescue loan. The lender’s bonds due in 2020 rose for a
second day, pushing down the yield to 9.5 percent from 10.07
percent on Nov. 16, according to prices on Trace.  Panamericano , which provides consumer finance and auto
loans to lower-income clients, was losing as much as 200 million
reais a day from redemptions of certificates of deposit and
investment funds after last week’s bailout, according to a bank
official who asked not to be named in accordance with company
policy. The pace of redemptions slowed this week, he said.  Coelho, 49, said Caixa could purchase Panamericano loan
portfolios to provide funding if necessary.  Meirelles told lawmakers last week that  Grupo Silvio Santos 
may sell its majority stake in the bank to help repay the loan.
Coelho said she’s unaware of any negotiations underway for the
group’s stake. After the bailout, Caixa, which owns 49 percent
of the total capital of Panamericano, took over a majority of
the lender’s board, naming five directors. Coelho will serve as
chairwoman.  “At this moment we have a very clear focus -- implement
our business plan for the institution and quickly arrive at
positive results,” Coelho said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  