-- Telefonica Says Spanish Economic Recovery Will Be Small, Slow, Protracted
-- B y   S i m o n   T h i e l   a n d   P a u l   T o b i n
-- 2010-11-18T09:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/telefonica-says-spanish-economic-recovery-will-be-small-slow-protracted.html
Telefonica SA , Europe’s second-
largest phone company, which last week reported third-quarter
profit that missed analyst estimates, said economic recovery in
Spain will be “small, slow and protracted.”  The economy in the Madrid-based company’s home country
should show at least a “stabilization” in the fourth quarter
as the “worst” of the crisis is over, Chief Strategy Officer
 Santiago Fernandez Valbuena  told investors today at a Morgan
Stanley conference in Barcelona, Spain. “The doomsday scenarios
of Spain going into the ocean are wrong.”  Telefonica on Nov. 11 posted third-quarter net income of
5.06 billion euros ($6.91 billion) on lower sales in Spain. That
missed the average analyst estimate of 5.45 billion euros from a
 Bloomberg survey . The results were boosted by a gain related to
Telefonica’s 7.5 billion-euro purchase of control of Brazil’s
 Vivo Participacoes SA .  Chairman  Cesar Alierta  sought to reduce the company’s
dependence on its home country, raising his bid three times to
convince  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA  to sell its part of their 50-
50 venture that controlled Vivo, Brazil’s largest wireless
operator. Spain’s  economy  stalled in the third quarter as the
deepest austerity measures in three decades undermined its
recovery from an almost two-year recession, the government said.  German Gains  Valbuena also said today that Telefonica’s share of the
growing phone market in Germany is rising as the company
benefits from the country’s expanding economy. Operations in the
U.K. are performing as “expected” while business in Ireland is
“difficult,” he said.
      Telefonica rose  1.1 percent to 18.05 euros at 10:44 a.m. in
Madrid. Before today, the stock dropped 8.5 percent this year.  Spanish sales fell 3.6 percent to 4.72 billion euros in the
third quarter. Domestic wireless service revenue slumped 7.9
percent, compared with a 5.7 percent decline in the second
quarter and a 7.1 percent contraction in the first three months
of the year.  Telefonica’s  revenue  in Latin America climbed 12 percent to
6.37 billion euros, while European sales outside Spain grew 14
percent to 3.96 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Thiel  in Barcelona at  sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tobin  in Madrid at 
 ptobin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  