-- Telenor Says Investors Must Examine VimpelCom Deal in Entirety
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-18T18:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/telenor-says-investors-must-examine-vimpelcom-orascom-deal-in-its-entirety.html
Telenor ASA , which owns about 40
percent of wireless operator VimpelCom Ltd., said shareholders
must consider in its entirety the $6.5 billion deal to buy
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE.  “You can’t look at it piecemeal, you have to look at the
totality,” Chief Financial Officer  Richard Olav Aa  said today
in an interview on the sidelines of a Morgan Stanley conference
in Barcelona.  VimpelCom and Weather Investments SpA, Orascom’s parent
company, said Oct. 4 they had agreed to merge most of their
assets in a transaction valued at about $6.5 billion.
VimpelCom’s shareholders will meet in late January or early
February to vote on the merger, Alexey Subbotin, VimpelCom’s
director of investor relations, said this month.  Orascom, the Middle East’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
may seek international arbitration to settle its disputes with
Algeria over its unit there, Chairman  Naguib Sawiris  said Nov.
9. The potential merger doesn’t depend on the fate of the talks
with Algeria, Orascom has said.  Telenor’s original shareholder agreement on VimpelCom also
gives the company rights if VimpelCom expands into new markets,
Aa said today. “If VimpelCom enters a market where Telenor
already is and you get regulatory issues, the last entrant will
be the first out,” he said.  India Operations  Telenor merged its stakes in Russian and Ukrainian
operators with those of billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s Alfa Group
to create VimpelCom. It participated in a unanimous board
decision to pursue the Orascom deal.  Telenor, based in Fornebu, Norway, last month reported a 51
percent drop in third-quarter profit as spending rose on new
operations in India.  The company’s Indian division, called Uninor, opened in
December, aiming to exploit expertise acquired in Pakistan and
Bangladesh. Uninor added 4 million subscriptions in the third
quarter for a total of 7.9 million prepaid cards in operation
after revamping its sales strategy over the summer. The division
posted a 1.3 billion-kroner operating loss in the quarter, while
 Telenor ’s other four Asian divisions increased profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  