-- Hellenic Telecommunications Predicts Deteriorating Greek Economy for 2011
-- B y   S i m o n   T h i e l   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/hellenic-telecom-predicts-deteriorating-greek-economy-for-2011.html
Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA , the Greek unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG , predicts
the local economy will deteriorate next year because of the
government’s austerity measures.  “It’s good that we have a government that is determined to
follow through with the necessary actions to get Greece out of
the crisis,”  Michael Tsamaz , the company’s new chief executive
officer, said at a Morgan Stanley conference in Barcelona,
Spain. “But the measures will have an impact and the market
situation will probably get worse next year.”  Prime Minister  George Papandreou  has cut wages and pensions
for civil servants as part of his deficit-cutting drive to meet
terms for 110 billion euros ($149 billion) of emergency loans
from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund.  Reforms
include restrictions on early retirement programs which burden
state-run pension funds, such as the program Hellenic Telecom
ran in 2005 when it cut a third of its workforce in Greece.  Tsamaz, who became CEO on Nov. 3, said he doesn’t expect
any additional taxes for the company, “based on what I know
today.”  Chief Finance Officer  Kevin Copp  expects the company’s cash
flow to be “stable” in the fourth quarter and potentially next
year, depending on the government’s measures, he said at the
conference. It’s “right’ to cut debt, “but we also need
actions to jump-start the economy,” he said.  Labor Reforms  Hellenic, Greece’s biggest phone company, is struggling to
find alternatives to cut payroll costs at its fixed-line Greek
unit after the government placed restrictions on early
retirement schemes, leaving the former phone monopoly with
almost 9,000 employees who can’t be fired.  Labor reforms pushed through by Papandreou, including the
ability to fire as many as 5 percent of workers in a month, from
a previous cap of 2 percent, don’t apply to certain employees at
Hellenic Telecom, who are considered state workers under the
terms on which they were initially hired.  Hellenic Telecom has cut its dividend to preserve cash as
revenue is hurt by Greece’s second year of recession. The
company forecast on Nov. 4 that sales and profit will fall this
year as the austerity measures result in a higher tax bill just
as businesses and consumers cut spending.  Tsamaz, who headed Cosmote, the company’s mobile-phone
unit, took over from  Panagis Vourloumis  on Nov. 3.  Deutsche
Telekom AG  owns 30 percent of Hellenic and the Greek government
holds 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Thiel  in Barcelona at  sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  