-- Lennon Rages Against Drunk Dad, Mom, Mates in New TV Drama: Dave Shiflett
-- B y   D a v e   S h i f l e t t
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/lennon-rages-against-drunk-dad-mom-mates-in-new-tv-drama-dave-shiflett.html
Being a Beatle bugged  John Lennon 
almost as much as being the son of a wayward drunk.  He also had issues with his mother, his first wife Cynthia
and the bearded, babbling  Maharishi Mahesh Yogi , according to
“ Lennon Naked ,” a gripping BBC drama airing Nov. 21 on PBS at
9 p.m. New York time,  The only person that seems to have made him happy was  Yoko Ono , which made him none too popular with almost everyone else
in his life, including his bandmates and Cynthia’s snarling mom.  Few days in Lennon’s life were blissful, if this 90-minute
drama is to be believed.  Christopher Eccleston  stars as the rock icon. He’s not a
dead ringer --- his beak is too big -- but he’s close enough
with his Jesus hair and wire-rimmed glasses.  The film, written by Robert Jones and directed by Edmund
Coulthard, opens in 1964 with Lennon and manager  Brian Epstein 
(Rory Kinnear) driving to a hotel for a meeting with Lennon’s
father, Freddie (Christopher Fairbank).  Freddie vamoosed when Lennon was 6 years old and hadn’t
spoken to his son in 17 years. The father is a booze hound with
a fondness for scotch and, it turns out, a 19-year-old girl.
This impresses John, who sets the old man and his babe up in a
house. Yet his bitterness toward his father rages throughout the
film, which purports to be “based on real events.”  Primal Scream  Eccleston’s portrayal of Lennon as a tormented product of a
dissolved home is powerful. Though he would become one of the
world’s most recognizable peace activists, he was rarely at
peace with himself.  In a pivotal scene he tells his primal-scream therapist of
being forced to choose between his mother and his father during
a tense seaside meeting. He initially chose dad, then ran to
mom, who subsequently farmed him out to an aunt. The sense of
abandonment haunted him ever after.  Yoko Ono (Naoko Mori) did bring some relief. For Lennon it
was close to love at first sight. He sees her sitting in an art
studio, decked out in her underwear. He sends for her and the
rest is history.  They get naked a few times in the film though not in a way
to get anyone’s sap rising. In one bare-butted scene Yoko sports
enough ballast to keep a schooner aloft in a stiff wind.  Acorn Musing  She’s also given to arcane musings like, “I’m just
thinking about acorns.” Still, she comes across as a
sympathetic character, especially after losing a child and
getting a perpetually cold shoulder from the other Beatles,
played by actors who bear little resemblance to the real Paul,
George and Ringo.  Anyone looking for a Beatle recharge will find the film a
bummer. Indeed, Lennon calls much of the Beatle’s music
“bollocks” and sneeringly refers to the band as “the nation’s
little pets.”  There are funny scenes, including Lennon’s meeting with
Cynthia’s mother during his divorce from her daughter. She calls
him “a lying little drug addict” and “a sex maniac, just like
his mother.”  Yet the real parallel is with his father, who had left him
just as Lennon eventually left son  Julian  and moved to New York,
where he was murdered in 1980.  This symbol of personal and artistic freedom comes across
here as a man deeply and sadly ensnared by his past.  Imagine that.  Rating: ***  What the Stars Mean:  ( Dave Shiflett  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Dave Shiflett at  dshifl@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 