-- Ericsson Sees Possibility of Network Acquisition With Partners
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-18T13:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/ericsson-sees-possibility-of-acquiring-networks-with-financial-partners.html
Ericsson AB , the world’s largest
supplier of wireless networks, said it may  acquire  network
assets in partnership with financial investors.  Some telecommunications operators “would like to offload
part of the networks to a third party -- that could be  Ericsson 
plus a financial company,” Valter D’Avino, vice president of
managed services, said at a Morgan Stanley conference in
Barcelona today.  Ericsson , based in Stockholm, is the biggest provider of
managed services to telephone operators. It has signed more than
300 contracts including extensions and expansions since 2002,
making it responsible for 750 million subscribers worldwide,
Josephine Edwall, a spokeswoman, said in an interview. Ericsson
signed 38 contracts through the first nine months of the year
including renewals and expansions. It generally doesn’t own the
network hardware it manages.  “We could eventually take over part of the network with a
partner and transform” capital expenditure to operational
expenditure, D’Avino said. “Ericsson isn’t interested in pure
leaseback that is one-to-one. What would be interesting for us
is real sharing, using the transmission capability to serve
other customers as well.”  The model is  Ericsson ’s “one-to-many” practice in network
management, when it acquires employees from a customer and
trains them to work on other networks as well, he said. The
company has already managed consolidations where companies merge
their networks while retaining ownership.  Management Customers  Ericsson’s network management customers include  Sprint
Nextel Corp ., Vodafone Group Plc’s  German unit, and  China
Mobile Ltd ., as well as some of  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. ’s 3-
branded mobile businesses. Managed-services agreements are
typically for five to seven years, with profitability increasing
over the contract. The company also sells network management to
utilities and television stations.  Africa is a promising area for the services, D’Avino said.  “We are discussing it especially with multicountry
operators,” he said, mentioning Emirates Telecom Corp.’s
Etisalat, Zain and  Bharti Airtel Ltd.   Ericsson said Nov. 8 it signed its first managed-services
contract for a so-called fourth-generation network, in
connection with an order from  TDC A/S , Denmark’s biggest phone
company. Fourth-generation networks provide higher speeds for
data transfer to mobile computers and other devices, typically
while also providing lower-speed networks for phone
conversations and data on the same base station.  Revenue Increase  The  company , which traces its roots to a telegraph repair
shop opened in 1876, has signed eight contracts for commercial
LTE-technology networks, including deals with Verizon Wireless
and AT&T Inc. in the U.S. Ericsson operates four global service
centers, in Romania, India, Mexico and China.  Ericsson  recorded 15.8 billion kronor ($2.3 billion) in
sales of managed services in the first nine months of the year,
a 28 percent increase from a year earlier. Third-quarter revenue
from managed services climbed 46 percent to 5.2 billion kronor,
boosted by the Sprint contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  