-- Merkel Fights for `Primacy' Over Markets as Bundesbank Rallies to Her Side
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-11-18T12:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/merkel-battles-for-primacy-over-markets-to-shift-future-debt-crisis-risk.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
she is in a “battle” with financial markets to make investors
shoulder part of the risk in future euro-area debt crises, as
the Bundesbank rallied to her side.  Merkel, in a speech to insurers in Berlin today, reiterated
that a permanent crisis-resolution mechanism is needed for the
euro area once the 750 billion-euro rescue fund’s mandate
expires in 2013. The safety net must include provisions that
force investors and not just taxpayers to assume risk, she said.  “We in the federal government are absolutely convinced
that, under a future mechanism, creditors also have to be made
to participate in the cost,” Merkel said. “It is true that
there is a kind of battle over what power the financial markets
have and how much room for policy-making the politicians have.”
At stake is “what we call the primacy of politics,” she said.  The comments echo language Merkel used in May immediately
after backing aid for Greece and underscore her determination to
stand firm on the debt mechanism that is to be drafted by the
middle of December. European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and euro-area governments including Ireland, Portugal
and Greece have criticized Merkel’s stance for worsening their
debt woes.  The Bundesbank backed Merkel, saying the euro area’s
permanent rescue system must ensure that holders of sovereign
debt share the cost of any restructuring.  ‘Indispensible Responsibility’  Private creditors “have an indispensable responsibility
when it comes to restoring sustainable public finances in over-
indebted nations,” the Frankfurt-based German  central bank  said
in its monthly report today.  Bonds from Ireland to Portugal have dropped since European
Union leaders agreed on Oct. 29 to consider Merkel’s proposal,
part of European leaders’ efforts to replace the temporary
rescue fund created in May after Greece’s near-default.  Ireland is free to apply if needed to the fund, which was
established for just such cases, Merkel said.  “As far as Ireland is concerned, we have a euro safety
net,” she said. “And if a country wants to use it, all I can
say is that this is exactly what it was created for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  