-- Euro Gains Most in Two Weeks Versus Dollar on Outlook for Irish Resolution
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-18T22:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/euro-rises-a-second-day-on-optimism-ireland-debt-problems-to-be-contained.html
The euro strengthened the most in
more than two weeks versus the dollar and climbed against the
yen on optimism a bailout for Ireland will prevent contagion
across the region’s larger debt markets.  Commodity-linked currencies including the Australian and
New Zealand dollars rose as stocks and commodities surged. The
euro gained as Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said he
would welcome the creation of “substantial contingency capital
funding” for Ireland’s banks. The greenback advanced versus the
yen as data showed Philadelphia-area manufacturing expanded.  “The market likes certainty, and the news around Ireland
and its acceptance of help does create some clarity on the
situation,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at National Bank of Canada in Toronto. “The market is
taking that optimistically.”  The euro rose 0.8 percent to $1.3643 at 5 p.m. in New York,
after declining to $1.3448 on Nov. 16, the lowest level since
Sept. 28. Its gain today was the biggest on a closing basis
since Nov. 2.  The single currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 113.93 yen,
from 112.55 yesterday. The dollar rose 0.4 percent to 83.52 yen
and touched 83.79 yen, its strongest level since Oct. 5.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index was up 1.5 percent, and the
Reuters-Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials climbed as much as
2.5 percent, the most on an intraday basis since Oct. 8.  Commodity Currencies  The currencies of New Zealand and Australia, both
commodity-exporting nations, rose against all of their major
counterparts as prospects for an end to the Irish debt crisis
fueled investors’ appetite for risk.  The Aussie appreciated 1.1 percent to 99 U.S. cents and
advanced 1.5 percent to 82.69 yen. The New Zealand currency,
nicknamed the kiwi, rose 1.1 percent to 77.87 U.S. cents and
climbed 1.5 percent to 65.03 yen.  The South Korean won, Brazilian real and Canadian dollar
also outperformed the greenback. The yen and Swiss franc, which
like the dollar are considered refuge currencies, fell.  The dollar rose to its strongest level in six weeks against
the Japanese currency as data showed mid-Atlantic  manufacturing 
grew this month in November at the fastest pace this year. The
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank’s general economic index
climbed to a reading of 22.5, more than four times the forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S.  Treasuries  dropped, pushing yields up and making the
securities more attractive to investors. The U.S. seven-year
note  yield  reached a two-month high of 2.24 percent and the 10-
year  yield  touched 2.96 percent, near the highest since August,
before both trimmed increases.  ‘Great Number’  “Is economic data strong enough to sustain higher yields;
does that mean the U.S. dollar rallies?” said  Andrew Busch , a
global currency strategist at Bank of Montreal in Chicago.
“Philly Fed was a great number.”  The Swedish krona gained the most in two weeks against the
dollar, and Norway’s krone appreciated for the second day after
a run of eight straight losses.  “In the short term, the market is talking about Ireland,
but as this dies down the question will be: who is next?” said
 Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New
York. “This uncertainty will continue to weigh on the euro.
Sweden and Norway have underperformed the other risky currencies
and we would expect these to respond strongly to any positive
Irish headlines.”  The krona strengthened as much as 1.2 percent, the biggest
intraday jump since Nov. 4, to 6.8439 per dollar. Norway’s krone
gained 0.7 percent to 5.9877 to the greenback.  ‘Tens of Billions’  The euro extended early gains after Ireland’s central-bank
governor,  Patrick Honohan ,  said he expects the country to seek
a package worth “tens of billions” of euros to help rescue
Irish banks battered by the country’s property slump. Officials
of the European Union, International Monetary Fund and European
Central Bank today started to study the firms’ books.  The “large loan” will “show Ireland has sufficient
firepower to deal with any concerns of the market,” said
Honohan. He spoke from Frankfurt, where he is attending a
regular European Central Bank Governing Council meeting.  “The big difficulty is that the banks grew to such a size
that they became too unmanageable for the state itself,” Finance
Minister Lenihan said on Irish broadcaster RTE. “That’s why we
have to consider external assistance to stabilize the banking
system.”  Lenihan is due to publish details of a four-year, 15
billion-euro ($20 billion) plan to lower the budget deficit this
month and his 2011 budget on Dec. 7.  Gain for Week  The euro has appreciated 0.7 percent over the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, a measure
of 10 developed-nation currencies.  The shared currency will rise for the next month versus the
dollar before turning lower through the year-end, according to
FX Concepts LLC, the world’s biggest currency hedge fund.  The New York-based firm, which bought the euro in June just
as it began a 9.7 percent surge against the dollar, said the 16-
nation currency will rally into the week of Dec. 6 or Dec. 13 if
it continues to drive higher this week. The euro is rising for a
second day and has held above the bottom of its trend channel,
 Jonathan Clark , the firm’s vice chairman, wrote to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  