-- Euro Gains Before German Data Seen Showing Consumer Confidence, Price Rise
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 2010-11-19T00:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/euro-near-one-week-high-versus-yen-before-german-data-on-prices-consumers.html
The euro rose to a one-week high
against the yen before reports that economists said will show
German prices and consumer confidence rose.  Europe’s currency advanced against 12 of its 16 major
counterparts on optimism a bailout for Ireland will prevent
contagion across the region’s larger debt markets. The dollar
was near a six-week high against the yen as a report is forecast
to show the U.S. economy expanded more in the third quarter than
the government initially reported. The yen extended losses
against major counterparts as gains in stocks and commodities
damped demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  “Ireland, Portugal and other nations will be OK because
macro data in Europe are not that bad,” said  Junichi Makino , a
Tokyo-based senior economist at Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd.
“The euro will be supported as long as the region’s economy is
resilient and exports advance.”  The euro rose to 114.08 yen as of 9:12 a.m. in Tokyo from
113.95 yen in New York yesterday. It earlier touched 114.13 yen,
the highest since Nov. 8. The shared currency fetched $1.3655
from $1.3643, after rising 0.8 percent yesterday.  The dollar was at 83.54 yen from 83.52 yen, after touching
83.79 yen yesterday, its strongest level since Oct. 5. The U.S.
currency has advanced 1.2 percent against the yen this week.  Prices, Confidence  German producer prices gained 4.1 percent in October from a
year ago after rising 3.9 percent in September, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before today’s data. The
nation’s consumer confidence may advance to 5 in December from
4.9 this month, another survey showed before GfK AG, a market
research company, releases the data on Nov. 23.  The euro gained after Ireland’s central-bank governor,
 Patrick Honohan , said he expects the country to seek a package
worth “tens of billions” of euros to help rescue Irish banks
battered by the country’s property slump. Officials of the
European Union, International Monetary Fund and European Central
Bank yesterday started to study the banks’ books.  “Progress towards a possible loan package for Ireland from
the EU and IMF is helping to buoy market sentiment,” said Khoon
Goh, head of market economics and strategy at ANZ National Ban k
Ltd. in Wellington. “This is likely to be positive for the
euro.”  Spain sold 3.65 billion euros ($4.98 billion) of bonds at
an auction yesterday at lower yields than similar traded
securities.  The dollar headed for a third weekly gain against the yen
as the U.S. economy expanded at a 2.4 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, compared with a 2 percent increase initially
reported, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg before
the data due on Nov. 23.  The yen dropped as the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional
shares advanced 0.6 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
rose 1.5 percent, and the Reuters-Jefferies CRB Index of raw
materials climbed 2.4 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Harui  in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 