-- Euro's Recipe for Redemption Needs Two Ingredients: Andre Sapir
-- B y   A n d r e   S a p i r
-- 2010-11-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/euro-s-redemption-recipe-needs-two-ingredients-commentary-by-andre-sapir.html
A decade after the euro’s birth,
Greece revealed glaring defects in the design of the common
currency. Existing rules failed to prevent the buildup of
sovereign debt, and there were none to manage or resolve crises.  In March, European leaders asked European Union President
 Herman Van Rompuy  to establish a taskforce to propose “the
measures needed to reach the objective of an improved crisis
resolution framework and better budgetary discipline, exploring
all options to reinforce the legal framework.”  In the following months, two steps were taken to remedy the
institutional problems of the euro area. First, the  European
Financial Stability Facility  was established with the aim and
the capacity to provide financial support to countries in
difficulty. Second, the European Commission and the Van Rompuy
taskforce issued proposals to strengthen fiscal discipline,
largely by reforming the Stability and Growth  Pact .  Although important, these two measures suffered from clear
deficiencies. First, the European Financial Stability Facility
is only temporary and lies outside the EU’s institutional
framework. Second, even if the growth pact could be applied with
automatic procedures and sanctions -- as the European Central
Bank and the European Commission would wish but Europe’s
governments mostly oppose -- it is unlikely to be sufficient to
entirely avoid future sovereign-debt crises.  ‘Very Strong’  Going one step further, European leaders agreed last month
on the need to establish a “permanent crisis mechanism”
requiring involvement of private-sector creditors, participation
of the International Monetary Fund and “very strong”
conditionality on debtor countries. The new mechanism could
provide the framework that the euro area needs to improve crisis
prevention, management and resolution all at once.  Since a final decision on the outline of the new mechanism
will be made by European leaders in December, there is confusion
and investor panic in financial markets.  A proposal by Bruegel suggests that a European crisis-
resolution mechanism should comprise of two pillars: a procedure
for debt restructuring to be handled by the European Commission
and the European Court of Justice; and a set of rules for the
provision of financial assistance to be managed by the European
Financial Stability Facility, which should be made a permanent
EU institution.  Market Discipline  The creation of the mechanism would contribute to crisis
prevention by acknowledging that orderly sovereign-debt
restructuring is a real possibility in the euro area. This,
along with necessary changes in financial regulation and
supervision, would prompt creditors to better differentiate
among sovereign-debt issuers, thereby strengthening market
discipline and improving sustainability of public finances.  Such discipline wouldn’t replace, but simply complement,
the Stability and Growth Pact. The mechanism would also
contribute to crisis management by making permanent the European
Financial Stability Facility, and therefore the possibility of
financial assistance to euro-area countries in difficulty.
Perhaps together with the IMF, the stability facility would be
able to provide financial support to such countries by attaching
strong conditionality, especially on future debt sustainability.  Here I agree with  Lorenzo Bini Smaghi , an ECB Executive
Board member, who recently declared that “there should be no
automatic mechanism linking financial support to debt
restructuring” for countries that are solvent.  Unsustainable Debt  At some stage, though, countries may become insolvent.
Then, the mechanism would help both the debtor and its creditors
to recognize that debt has become unsustainable, as well as to
prevent market turmoil and costly delays in restructuring by
providing a legal, economic and financial framework.  How would the resolution mechanism work once a country had
recognized that its debt is unsustainable and requested that the
mechanism be activated?  First, a decision to open a debt-restructuring procedure
would be made by the  European Court of Justice  after approval by
the European Commission that the debtor’s debt is unsustainable.  Second, with the opening of the procedure, the debtor would
stop servicing its debt and there would be a stay on all
litigation by creditors. The mechanism would apply to all
creditors (in or outside the euro area, but excluding official
bilateral and multilateral creditors) and all debt instruments
liable to restructuring (issued in or outside the euro area).  Creditor Burden  Third, the debtor would enter into negotiations with all
its private creditors subject to the restructuring. The European
Commission would provide evaluation to the parties as to the
extent of the private creditors’ burden and the future path of
primary budgetary surpluses, or the sovereign debtor’s burden.
An agreement approved by a qualified majority of these creditors
would be binding on them all.  Fourth, once an agreement is reached, the European
Financial Stability Facility would provide financing to the
debtor nation to enable it to undertake the necessary economic
adjustment toward fiscal sustainability.  As its description suggests, the mechanism would be
complex, which is the reason its creation would require a new
treaty that would only apply to debt after it entered into
force. The merit of such a proposal is that it spells out in
detail what is the nature and extent of the complexity involved,
rather than attempting to gloss over it and pretending that it
is an easy matter.  ( Andre Sapir  is a senior fellow at the Bruegel research
institute in Brussels and a professor of economics at Solvay
Brussels School of Economics and Management. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Andre Sapir at  bruegel@bruegel.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  