-- European Stocks Gain on Ireland Bailout Talks; Air France, SABMiller Rally
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-11-18T17:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-gain-air-france-voestalpine-may-move.html
European stocks rallied for a second
day amid speculation that Ireland is likely to accept a bailout,
while reports in the U.S. showed the world’s biggest economy is
gathering strength.  Air France-KLM Group surged 5.7 percent after Europe’s
 biggest airline  raised its full-year earnings target. SABMiller
Plc rallied 5.1 percent after saying profit increased 15
percent. Royal Ahold NV declined 3.5 percent as third-quarter
results missed analysts’ forecasts.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  advanced 1.4 percent
to 271.15 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, extending
yesterday’s 0.5 percent gain. The gauge plunged the most in four
months Nov. 16 on concern that Ireland’s debt woes may spread to
other euro-area nations and speculation that China will have to
take measures to cool inflation.  “There’s a certain degree of worry about Ireland but it’s
in a very different situation than Greece was earlier this
year,” said  Raimund Saxinger , a fund manager at Frankfurt Trust
Investment GmbH, which oversees about $22 billion. “Ireland
doesn’t have immediate financing needs. Macro-economic sentiment
indicators continue to be quite encouraging in Europe and Asia
and overall the outlook for next year is quite good.”  Tens of Billions  Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said he expects
the country to ask for a bailout from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund worth “tens of billions” of euros
to rescue its battered banks. Ireland will probably pay an
interest rate close to 5 percent, he said in an interview with
Irish state broadcaster RTE today.  EU, IMF and European Central Bank officials flew into
Dublin today to scan the books of the country’s financial
institutions after mounting loan losses sent Irish government
bond yields soaring. Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said
he would welcome the creation of “substantial contingency
capital funding” for Irish banks.  National benchmark indexes rose in all of the 18 western
European markets except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
surged 1.3 percent, while Germany’s DAX Index increased 2
percent, as did France’s CAC 40 Index.  Stocks extended gains after U.S. reports showed the
economic recovery is intact. The New York-based Conference
Board’s index of leading indicators climbed 0.5 percent for a
second month, matching the median forecast, while the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index rose to
22.5 from 1 a month earlier, exceeding the most optimistic
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Air France, SABMiller  Air France  rallied 5.7 percent to 13.98 euros. The Paris-
based carrier reported net income of 290 million euros ($393
million) in the fiscal second quarter, versus a 147 million-euro
year-earlier loss. Analysts had predicted a profit of 248
million euros. Rival Deutsche Lufthansa AG and British Airways
Plc rose 1.6 percent to 16.23 euros and 4.1 percent to 272.2
pence, respectively.  SABMiller  gained 5.1 percent to 2,157 pence as the maker of
Grolsch and Peroni beers said first-half profit increased 15
percent as growth in developing markets helped combat sluggish
consumer spending in Europe.  Carrefour, Rexel  Carrefour SA  advanced 2.6 percent to 38.96 euros as the
world’s second-largest retailer was said to cancel plans to sell
its businesses in Malaysia and Singapore. The Paris-based
retailer decided it would create more value by keeping the units
than by selling them, said a person familiar with the situation,
who declined to be named as the plans have yet to be disclosed.  Rexel SA  surged 5 percent to 14.87 euros as the electrical-
equipment distributor was rated “buy” in new coverage at UBS
AG, which said the company “is set to enter a new cycle of
growth, both organic and via acquisitions.”  London Stock Exchange  Group Plc gained 4.3 percent to 747.5
pence. The exchange struggling to wrest back trading from new
rivals said net income for the six months ended Sept. 30 was
62.2 million  pounds ($99.1 million) from 49.3 million pounds in
the first half last year.  Intercell AG rose 1.4 percent to 17.35 euros after saying
initial results of clinical tests of its vaccine candidate
against Staphylococcus aureus infections showed that primary
goals for safety and immunogenicity were met.  Lifted Forecast  FLSmidth & Co. A/S  surged 12 percent to 464.50 kroner after
the world’s largest maker of cement kilns reported third-quarter
profit that beat analyst estimates and lifted its 2010 profit
forecast.  Royal Boskalis Westminster NV rallied 10 percent to 32.70
euros after the world’s largest dredging company raised its 2010
earnings outlook and said profit will probably be at least 290
million euros.  QinetiQ Group Plc jumped 14 percent to 112.5 pence as
Britain’s former state defense-research laboratory posted first-
half earnings beat analysts’ estimates. Earnings before
interest, tax and one-time items advanced to 64.9 million
pounds, from 62.5 million pounds in the year-earlier period, the
company reported today. Liberum Capital predicted profit of 57
million pounds.  Royal Ahold lost 3.5 percent to 9.56 euros as the Dutch
owner of U.S. Stop & Shop supermarkets reported third-quarter
profit that missed estimates after one-time costs related to the
acquisition of the Ukrop’s Super Markets Inc. chain.  Net income  fell to 223 million euros from 244 million euros
a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based company said. That trailed
the 228 million-euro average estimate of 11 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue increased 11 percent to 6.7 billion euros.  Capita Group Plc, which administers television licenses for
the British Broadcasting Corp., fell after saying U.K.
government spending cuts were affecting its sales. The shares
slumped 4.4 percent to 690 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 