-- Texas Borrows $1.1 Billion to Repay U.S. for Jobless Benefits: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-11-19T00:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/texas-borrows-1-2-billion-to-repay-u-s-for-jobless-benefits-muni-credit.html
Texas , the second most-populous U.S.
state, borrowed $1.1 billion to reimburse the federal government
for  jobless  benefits, cutting its credit cost by more than a
third.  The  Texas Workforce Commission , which administers the
state’s unemployment insurance program, borrowed at yields below
3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compared with the 4.5 percent it expected the government to
charge, according to September estimates as the sale was being
prepared.  More than half of U.S. states have run out of money in
their unemployment trust funds, financed by payroll taxes,
because of  soaring joblessness  from the recession that began
almost three years ago. Texas had an 8.1 percent  unemployment
rate  in September, when the  national  level was 9.6 percent.  The commission borrowed at yields of 2.63 percent on its
longest maturity of July 2017, Bloomberg data show. Demand
allowed Texas to lower yields during the sale, by as much as 5
basis points in some cases, said Dwight Burns, executive
director of the state’s public finance authority, which sold the
debt on behalf of the state. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  “In spite of a very challenging municipal market, TPFA’s
bond sale was three times oversubscribed,” Burns said in a
prepared statement.  Yields Rise  The Texas deal follows a selloff in top-rated municipal
securities that drove 10-year yields to the highest in more than
four months, according to Municipal Market Advisors.  States have  borrowed $40.9 billion  from the federal
government, which has been providing the cash, without charging
interest, under the economic stimulus plan enacted after
President  Barack Obama  took office.  The transaction shows how states are benefiting from the
Federal Reserve’s decision to hold the key interest rate it sets
near zero, which has pushed down municipal borrowing costs.  The workforce commission estimates it will need $2 billion
by year-end to reimburse the federal government for advances on
payments to unemployed workers. The commission plans to sell
about $800 million more debt in December, Burns said. Tax-exempt
securities offer the lowest-cost financing for the state to
repay the government.  The bonds, marketed by firms led by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, come with Standard & Poor’s top rating and the second-
highest grades from Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  Interest Payments  States will need to make payments on the federal debt
beginning next year.  California , which has borrowed $8.7
billion, the most by any state, may face a $362 million interest
bill next September, according to its Employment Development
Department.  Texas issued a similar bond in 2003 to cover about $1.4
billion of loans from the government. At the time, the state
estimated it would save $10 million to $20 million a year in
interest costs.  About half a dozen states have tapped the public debt
markets since the 1970s to finance their unemployment trust
funds. Others lack laws authorizing the practice, according to
Loop Capital Markets LLC, the Chicago-based underwriter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  