-- Fat-Fighting Surgery Rates Soar as Australia Struggles With Obesity Levels
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-11-18T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/fat-fighting-surgery-rates-soar-in-australia-report-shows.html
The number of weight-loss procedures
in Australia has soared over a decade, a new study shows,
highlighting the country’s growing struggle with obesity.  Hospitalizations for procedures such as gastric banding
rose to 17,000 in 2008 from 500 in 1998, the  Australian
Institute of Health and Welfare  said in a report published
today. Women accounted for four in five of the operations.  More than two-thirds of Australian men and 55 percent of
women are overweight or obese, according to the report. Rates of
obesity have increased faster in Australia than in any other
nation in the 30-member  Organization for Economic Co-operation
and Development  in the past 20 years, the Paris-based group says
on its website.  “While many overweight people rely on lifestyle factors --
such as improved diet and increased physical activity -- to lose
weight, the report shows a significant increase in the number of
people undergoing weight-loss surgery,” Jenny Hargreaves, head
of the AIHW’s hospitals and performance group, said in a
statement.  People who are overweight or obese have a greater risk of
diabetes, heart attacks and strokes, the report said.  Gastric banding  is done when a surgeon places a band around
the upper portion of the stomach to create a pouch to hold food,
which limits the amount a person can eat. The reversible
procedure is one of the two most common for weight loss, with
the other being gastric bypass.  Health care for overweight and obese people costs Australia
 $21 billion  a year for expenses such as hospitalization, medical
care and drugs, researchers from the University of Sydney said
in a study published in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 