-- Federal Reserve's Computers Hacked by Indicted Malaysian Man, U.S. Says
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-11-18T19:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/fed-computers-were-hacked-by-malaysian-man-arrested-in-credit-card-scheme.html
The Federal Reserve’s computers were
hacked by a Malaysian man who was arrested in a credit card
scheme, according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney
 Loretta Lynch  in Brooklyn, New York.  The computer network of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Cleveland was hacked in June, resulting in thousands of dollars
of damage, affecting 10 or more computers, according to court
papers.  No Federal Reserve data or information was accessed or
compromised, according to June Gates, a spokeswoman for the
central bank. “The incident involved a test computer at the
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland,” Gates said today in a phone
interview. The computer system is used for testing and is “not
in any way connected to our live production system,” she said  A federal grand jury returned a four-count indictment today
against Lin Mun Poo for hacking into the central bank’s
computers and for possessing more than 400,000 stolen credit and
debit card numbers, according to a statement by Lynch. Poo has
made a career of compromising computer servers of financial
institutions, defense contractors and corporations to sell or
trade on the information, Lynch said.  Poo, 32, was arrested shortly after his Oct. 21 arrival in
the U.S., when he sold 30 active credit or debit card numbers to
an undercover agent for $1,000. He has been in custody since his
arrest.  Kannan Sundaram, Poo’s lawyer at Federal Defenders of New
York in Brooklyn, couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Credit Union Access  Poo was able to gain access to data of several federal
credit unions, including the  Firemen’s Association of the State
of New York , by hacking into Fairfax, Virginia-based  FedComp
Inc. , a data processor for credit unions.  A message left on FedComp’s general voice-mail and an
e-mail to the firemen’s association weren’t immediately
returned.  When he was arrested, Poo had a “heavily encrypted laptop
computer” that had “a massive quantity of stolen financial
account data and personal identifying information,” according
to court papers.  He’s also charged with hacking into a defense contractor’s
system.  “Cybercriminals continue to use their sophistication and
skill as hackers to attack our financial and national security
sectors,” Lynch said in her statement.  The case is U.S. v. Poo, 10-cr-891, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 