-- Fed Seeks Capital Plans as Banks Want to Raise Payouts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-18T15:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/fed-requires-capital-plans-as-banks-seek-dividend-increases.html
The Federal Reserve issued
guidelines on how it will decide whether large U.S. banks may
increase dividends and buy back shares, requiring the lenders to
submit to stress tests of capital levels.  Lenders must maintain a Tier 1 common equity ratio of 5
percent after any distributions, in addition to showing they can
absorb losses if the economy sours and how they will meet Basel
III capital rules, the Fed said in documents released yesterday.
Companies must repay or replace any government investment with
preferred or common stock before raising payouts, it said.  The Fed is asking the 19 banks it stress-tested last year
to explain impacts from mortgage repurchases and the Dodd-Frank
law after banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  expressed a
desire to raise dividends. Comerica Inc., the Dallas-based bank
that posted annual profits throughout the financial crisis,
boosted its quarterly dividend to 10 cents a share on Nov. 16.  “The Fed has clearly made a decision that the industry, by
and large, is able to or needs to issue dividends, and they want
to be ahead of it,” said  William Sweet , a former attorney at
the Federal Reserve and a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom in Washington. “They’re saying it’s OK with
them, but saying so in a way that makes sure only the banks who
are in good shape are allowed.”  Banks including JPMorgan,  Wells Fargo & Co. , U.S. Bancorp
and  PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  may raise dividends, said
 Jennifer Thompson , an analyst at New York-based Portales
Partners LLC.  Dividend Payouts  “You will see a number of the stronger banks increase
their dividends over the next quarter,” Thompson said in a
phone interview. She has a “hold” rating on Comerica, the
15th-biggest U.S. commercial lender by assets. “The regulators
have put rules in place and now it will be a matter of making
individual decisions for each bank.”  Banks that raise dividends will likely pay out 15 percent
to 20 percent of earnings, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led
by  Richard Ramsden  wrote today in a research note. About 60
percent of capital returned to shareholders will come through
share repurchases at large banks, according to the note.  Goldman analysts said the first dividend raises will come
in the first quarter.  Vivek Juneja , an analyst at JPMorgan, said
in a note today that U.S. banks may postpone dividend increases
until the second quarter of next year.  Capital Plans  The Fed is asking large banks to submit capital plans by
Jan. 7, 2011, regardless of whether they plan to raise dividends
or buy back stock. The Tier 1 common equity ratio is a
regulatory gauge of a bank’s capital and its ability to
withstand losses.  The capital plans must provide expected losses and capital
levels under economic scenarios defined by the bank, as well as
under adverse conditions defined by the Fed. They will occur on
a regular basis, the regulator said in a statement.  The capital plans will include expected losses from banks’
different lines of business, including charges related to
mortgage repurchase requests, according to a person briefed on
the program. They will also include any expected impact from the
Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul plan, according to the Fed
documents. The plans aren’t likely to be made public, the person
said.  “There is a requirement under Dodd-Frank to do periodic
government and internal stress tests, so this is entirely in
line with that,” said Sweet. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see
in the long term that stress tests will be somehow tied to
dividends -- that they’ll want to see the tests before you
declare dividends to make sure there’s nothing awry.”  Fed Response  The Fed guidelines give it flexibility in assessing banks’
ability to raise payouts, and the regulator could take into
account “qualitative attributes” of lenders in addition to
capital levels, Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst  Glenn Schorr  said
yesterday in a note to investors.  The Fed said it expects to begin responding to capital
distribution requests in next year’s first quarter. Banks must
currently maintain a Tier 1 common ratio of 2 percent. The Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision agreed in September to triple
the amount of top-quality capital banks must hold and narrowed
the definition of which capital qualifies. The agreement covers
27 member countries.  “Our approach to considering such requests will be a
conservative one,” Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  said in a speech
in Washington last week. “We also expect that firms will have a
sound estimate of any significant risks that may not be captured
by the stress testing.” He cited potential demands for refunds
from investors who bought faulty mortgages, which could run into
billions of dollars for the biggest home lenders.  Dividend Impact  Bank of America Corp.  had a Tier 1 common equity ratio of
8.45 percent as of Sept. 30, according to a regulatory filing.
JPMorgan’s ratio was 9.5 percent, while Citigroup Inc. had a
10.3 percent ratio and Wells Fargo’s was 8 percent, according to
company filings.  Concerns that bank capital was under pressure from souring
loans prompted Fed officials in February 2009 to issue a letter
to its regional supervisors telling them banks “should reduce
or eliminate dividends” when earnings decline or the economic
outlook deteriorates. The new guidelines may show the Fed’s
confidence in banks’ health is being restored.  Comerica also authorized the repurchase of as much as 7
percent of stock outstanding, according to a company statement.
In March, Comerica repaid $2.25 billion to the Troubled Asset
Relief Program and in October it redeemed $500 million of trust-
preferred securities, which will be discontinued as a form of
regulatory capital starting in 2013.  Wells Fargo Chief Financial Officer  Howard Atkins , 59, said
last month that a dividend increase is a “top priority” for
the bank. JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 54, said
he was “reasonably hopeful” the firm will be able to raise its
payment in 2011’s first quarter and that regulators were open to
the idea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 