-- Fidelity's Junk-Bond King Notkin Adds Stocks as Debt Rally Dies
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/fidelity-s-junk-bond-king-notkin-prefers-cheap-stocks-as-debt-rally-dies.html
Fidelity Investments’  Mark Notkin ,
whose high-yield mutual fund beat all rivals over the past five
years, said the rally in junk bonds is over and stocks are a
better buy.  The manager of the $12.8 billion  Fidelity Capital & Income 
Fund is putting more money into equities and leveraged loans
while cutting back on high-yield bonds, which have soared 80
percent since the start of 2009.  “I don’t see the value in the high-yield market,” Notkin
said in an interview at his Boston office. “You are not being
paid to take risk.”  Corporate junk bonds climbed last year after the U.S.
recession ended and the default rate fell. Investors added $55.1
billion to U.S. junk-bond funds in 2009 and this year through
September, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research
firm EPFR Global. Withdrawals from U.S. equity funds were $129.9
billion in the same period.  It’s time to shift gears because equities offer bigger
gains, said  Margaret Patel , who oversees about $1 billion for
Wells Fargo & Co. in two mutual funds that invest in both asset
classes. Notkin’s fund, which can keep as much as 20 percent of
assets in stocks, had 17 percent in equities at the end of
September, according to Fidelity’s website.  “The pendulum has swung from high yield to equities,”
Patel said in a telephone interview from Boston.  Patel said that as earnings rise for companies tied to the
global economy over the next 12 months, stocks are likely to
deliver more than the 6 percent to 7 percent gains she expects
from junk bonds.  Low Yields  Junk-bond yields that are low by historical standards and
the prospect of increasing interest rates will limit gains,
Patel said. Firms that issued high-yield securities in the past
three to five years may buy back outstanding bonds because the
debt can be refinanced at lower rates, she said.  Speculative grade, or junk, bonds, are rated Ba1 or below
by Moody’s Investors Service and BB+ or below by Standard &
Poor’s.  High-yield bonds could outperform stocks if the U.S.
economy slows, said Patel, because companies would still be able
to pay their debts even as profits slump.  Notkin, 46, joined Fidelity in 1994 as a high-yield analyst
covering broadcasting, gaming and lodging. He earned a
bachelor’s degree from the University of Massachusetts and a
master’s of business administration from Boston University.  Third in Size  He took over Fidelity Capital & Income in July 2003. It’s
the third-largest U.S. junk-bond fund after the $17.3 billion
 American High-Income Trust , run by Los Angeles-based Capital
Group Cos., and the $13.1 billion Vanguard High-Yield Corporate
Fund.  Notkin’s fund fell 32 percent in 2008, compared with the 26
percent drop in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield
Master II Index, as the financial crisis prompted investors to
dump risky assets.  By the end of 2008, Notkin saw an “extraordinary
opportunity,” when the average yield on junk bonds rose above
20 percent.  “At that point I thought it made sense to be pressing down
on the gas pretty hard,” he said.  Notkin used the fund’s cash stake, which he had built to
about 20 percent of the portfolio, to buy the riskiest high-
yield bonds.  Not for Fainthearted  By Sept. 30, 2009, according to Chicago-based Morningstar
Inc., the fund had 35 percent of its assets in bonds rated CCC
and below, among the lowest credit ratings assigned by New York-
based Standard & Poor’s. The typical high-yield fund had 21
percent in bonds rated that low, according to data compiled by
Morningstar.  “This fund is not for the faint of heart,”  Miriam Sjoblom , an analyst with Morningstar, said in a telephone
interview.  Fidelity Capital & Income surged 72 percent in 2009,
compared with a return of 58 percent for the Merrill Lynch
index, Bloomberg data show. In the five years ended Nov. 16,
Capital & Income averaged gains of 9.9 percent, the best among
422 high-yield funds tracked by  Morningstar.  This year the fund
has risen about 14 percent.  The default rate for junk-rated corporate debt is expected
to drop to 2.4 percent in the year ending September 2011 from 11
percent at the end of 2009, Standard & Poor’s said in October.  Reducing Risk  Notkin said he has been “de-risking” the fund this year
by substituting higher-quality bonds for those of lesser
stability. As of Sept. 30, 21 percent of the fund was in bonds
rated CCC and below, compared with the 17 percent allocation
among his average peer, according to Morningstar.  With prices on high-yield bonds near all-time peaks and
yields near a record low, investors can expect gains over the
next 12 months of about 7 percent, Notkin said.  “The market is fairly valued, if not overvalued,” he
said. “Compared to high yield, equity is very cheap.”  Notkin expects interest rates to rise to historically
normal levels over the next year or two, which could push up
yields on U.S. Treasuries in the 5- to 10-year range more than
200 basis points, or 2 percentage points, he said. The yield on
the 10-year Treasury note is about 2.88 percent. Bond prices
fall when rates climb.  “We aren’t Japan,” said Notkin, referring to a nation
where rates have stayed near zero for more than a decade.  Patel of Wells Fargo said gains in junk bonds will be
further restricted as corporations buy back more of their high-
yield debt.  Ceiling on Prices  “That creates a ceiling on how far prices can advance,”
she said.  In April 2009, Notkin’s fund had 5 percent of assets in
stocks,  filings  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
show.  “If I find opportunities, don’t be surprised if it gets to
20 percent,” he said.  Notkin said stocks have underperformed high yield
“dramatically” since he began running the fund. The high-yield
index has gained more than twice as much as the S&P 500 over
that stretch, Bloomberg data show.  Stocks also look attractive using other measures, he said.
The earnings yield on the S&P 500, the index’s total earnings
divided by its price, was 6.86 percent in the second quarter,
the highest it has been since at least 1993, data from Standard
& Poor’s show.  Money managers often compare the yield on stocks and fixed
income as a way to gauge the appeal of the two asset classes.  Stocks ‘Attractive’  “Stocks are attractive relative to any kind of bonds,”
said  Michael Mullaney , a portfolio manager at Fiduciary Trust
Co. in Boston, where he helps oversee $9.5 billion.  More U.S. executives than ever are increasing earnings
forecasts compared with those lowering them, based on data
Bloomberg began tracking in 1999.  Shares of  Teck Resources Ltd ., which Notkin acquired in the
third quarter of 2009, have climbed 72 percent since Sept. 30 of
that year, Bloomberg data show. Vancouver-based Teck, Canada’s
largest diversified mining company, was the fund’s 10th-biggest
holding as of July 31.  TRW Automotive Holdings Corp ., another top 10 position for
Notkin, has almost tripled in value over the same period. The
Livonia, Michigan-based company is the world’s biggest supplier
of vehicle-safety equipment.  “We love the auto sector,” said Notkin. The business will
continue to grow globally, he said, and companies that sell
safety and emissions gear will do especially well as governments
around the world force carmakers to raise standards.  Tech, Materials  Notkin favors industries such as technology and materials
that will benefit from expanding economies in emerging
countries. Businesses that depend more on the U.S., including
retailing and homebuilding, are less appealing to him.  “We don’t see the domestic economy going gangbusters
anytime soon,” Notkin said.  Leveraged loans are rated below investment grade and are
repaid first in a bankruptcy or liquidation, which makes them a
more defensive investment than high-yield bonds. Because the
interest rates on the loans float, returns may rise if rates
climb.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect the yield on the
10-year U.S. Treasury note to reach 3.3 percent by the fourth
quarter of 2011. The  S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index  has
returned 8.1 percent this year.  Notkin said he is looking to add to his loan holdings,
which represented 13 percent of the portfolio as of April 30,
according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “When rates rise, which will happen eventually, bank debt
will look attractive and will outperform high yield at some
point,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  