-- World Cup Panel Suspends, Fines Two Officials Over Vote-Sale Allegations
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2010-11-18T15:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/fifa-s-ethics-panel-suspends-fines-officials-on-world-cup-hosting-vote.html
Soccer’s governing body suspended
two executive committee members following a corruption probe
into bids to host the World Cup, increasing uncertainty over the
race to stage the 2018 and 2022 events.  FIFA’s decision-making body was reduced to 22 members today
as Nigeria’s  Amos Adamu  was suspended for three years and fined
10,000 Swiss francs ($10,120) and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii was
banned for a year and fined 5,000 francs. London’s  Sunday Times 
said Oct. 17 that the pair would trade cash for their vote. They
won’t be replaced before the Dec. 2 vote on future hosts.  The Zurich-based organization has battled to protect the
credibility of its World Cup selection process since the
newspaper story. FIFA also fined and suspended four other
officials who were secretly recorded by undercover reporters.
FIFA said it didn’t find enough proof of a reported pact between
the Spain/Portugal and Qatar bids.  “The way FIFA and the ethics committee reacted in such a
short period of time, less than month, shows how important it is
for us to make sure that things are under control,”  FIFA 
General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  said at a press conference.  The U.S., which estimated that the competition is worth as
much as $5 billion to the hosts, is competing with Qatar, Japan,
South Korea and Australia to stage the 2022 tournament. Russia,
England and a joint Netherlands/Belgium bid are contending for
2018 along with Spain/Portugal.  A Secret  The Sunday Times said its story was based on evidence
gathered by undercover reporters posing as lobbyists for a U.S.
bid at meetings with Adamu and Temarii. Adamu asked for $800,000
to be paid into his bank account to build four artificial soccer
fields, while Temarii asked for funds to finance a sports
academy. No payments were made.  The suspensions mean the bidding countries may have to
change their strategies.  Australia is the only candidate not to have someone of its
nationality on the executive committee. Temarii, head of the
Oceania confederation that previously included Australia, had
said he’d support the Socceroos’ bid.  “Let me tell you a secret: We know more than one member of
the executive committee,” Peter Hargitay, a strategist for
Australia, told reporters last month.  England’s 2018  bid leader  Andy Anson  said yesterday that
his nation’s bid would remain on track whatever the verdicts.  “We can win in both scenarios,” he said. He declined to
say if Adamu or Temarii had pledged their support to England.  The remaining members of FIFA’s Executive Committee will
meet tomorrow in a special session convened because of the
ethics panel’s investigation.  Slim Aloulou, Amadou Diakite, Ahongalu Fusimalohi and
Ismael Bhamjee were banned and fined $10,000 because they told
reporters they could facilitate access to the men who’ll decide
where the tournaments will be held. Adamu and Temarii have both
publicly pleaded their innocence. Temarii has also filed a
lawsuit against the Sunday Times.  Officials, including FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  and the
head of Asian soccer  Mohamed Bin Hammam , have been critical of
some of the methods used by the U.K. media in recent weeks. That
prompted a letter from England’s campaign to individual voters
that sought to distance the bid from the country’s media.  Newspaper Criticized  Claudio Sulser, head of the commission that investigated
the claims, also criticized the way the Sunday Times obtained
its information and claimed the information wasn’t fairly
presented.  “What I cannot tolerate is that they changed the way they
presented the truth,” he said.  The investigation into the allegations of collusion between
the Iberian bid and Qatar didn’t include interviews with any
members of the executive committee. The Sunday Times and other
newspapers named seven of the 24 voters as agreeing to pick
Spain/Portugal for 2018 and Qatar for 2022.  “Am I’m sure that 2018 and 2022 are free of any
collusion,” Valcke said in response to a question at today’s
press conference. “I can’t answer this. I don’t vote and I have
no idea what the discussions are between various members.”  While the Spain/Portugal bid repeatedly denied it had
breached campaigning rules,  Qatar  didn’t comment during the
investigation.  Rumors, Hearsay  “This puts an end to the rumors and hearsay which have
dominated the agenda in recent weeks,” Hassan Al-Thawadi, head
of the Gulf state’s offer, said in statement. “We have
maintained a dignified silence to allow FIFA to deal with this
issue.  FIFA have now done so, they have given us a clean bill
of health and it is time to move on.”  The country has pledged to spend $50 billion on
infrastructure projects to ready itself for a possible World Cup
in 2022. It was the only one of the nine bidders to receive a
“high” operational risk rating from FIFA’s inspection team.
Qatar had claimed in a press statement “the FIFA report
describes the Qatar bid as ‘low risk.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Carolyn Bandel  in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  