-- FirstRand's Sizwe Nxasana Becomes South Africa's Highest-Paid Banking CEO
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-18T16:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/firstrand-s-nxasana-becomes-south-africa-s-best-paid-bank-ceo.html
Sizwe Nxasana  became South Africa’s
best-paid bank chief executive officer after  FirstRand Ltd. 
boosted his remuneration to 45 million rand ($6.4 million).  Nxasana, 53, was paid a salary of 5.1 million rand, a 5.82
million-rand performance bonus and deferred shares valued at
5.18 million rand in the year through June, the Johannesburg-
based bank said in its  annual report . Nxasana also got 1.24
million share awards, currently valued at 27.5 million rand,
which pay out in September 2012 if he meets performance targets.  Nxasana, who succeeded  Paul Harris  in January, received
more than double the 2009 remuneration of South Africa’s second-
highest paid bank CEO,  Standard Bank Group Ltd. ’s  Jacko Maree .
FirstRand increased full-year profit 35 percent and gained 28
percent in Johannesburg trading over the 12 months through June,
making it the best performer among the country’s big four banks.  “We have always tried to align employee reward with
shareholder returns,” FirstRand Chairman  Laurie Dippenaar  said
in the annual report published Nov. 16.  The pay of executives, especially those at banks, is under
scrutiny and increases shouldn’t be “exorbitant,” South
African Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said today in a
televised press conference from the capital, Pretoria.  FirstRand  fell 2.8 percent to 21.57 rand, the most in more
than three months and the biggest drop among the 42 biggest
companies trading in Johannesburg. That pared this year’s gains
to 18 percent and cut its market value to 121.6 billion rand.  Owner-Managed  More than 40 percent of Nxasana’s performance payments in
2010 are deferred for two years, FirstRand said. He was paid 9.9
million rand in the previous fiscal year and also received 2
million share appreciation rights.  The company that became FirstRand was founded by Harris,
Dippenaar and G.T. Ferreira in 1977. Dippenaar owns almost 3.5
percent of the company, a stake valued at about 4.3 billion
rand.  “FirstRand is transitioning from an owner-managed culture
to a professionally managed business,” said  Patrice Rassou , a
banking portfolio manager who helps oversee the equivalent of
$41 billion at Cape Town-based Sanlam Investment Management.
“To maintain its entrepreneurial culture, it needs to have guys
like Sizwe think like owners.”  Nxasana became the first black CEO of one of the country’s
big four banks after heading Telkom South Africa Ltd., Africa’s
largest fixed-line phone company, until 2005. He established
South Africa’s first black-owned audit practice in 1989.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  