-- Ford Cuts Mazda Motor Stake to 3.5%, Scaling Back 30-Year-Old Alliance
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2010-11-18T11:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/ford-to-cut-stake-in-mazda-motor-to-3-53-from-11-06-.html
Ford Motor Co.  will cut its stake in
 Mazda Motor Corp.  to 3.5 percent to become the Japanese
automaker’s fourth-largest stakeholder, scaling back an alliance
of more than 30 years to focus on developing its own-brand cars.  Ford will reduce the holding from 11 percent by selling
shares to Mazda partners via off-auction trading, the
Hiroshima-based company  said  today. The transaction, valued at
31 billion yen ($372 million) based on Mazda’s closing share
price today, will be completed by Nov. 19, Dearborn, Michigan-
based Ford said in a separate statement.  While Ford retains production tie-ups in Thailand and the
U.S. with the Japanese company, it intends to end developing
vehicles jointly with Mazda as it focuses on its namesake brand
under Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally . The two automakers
will continue to work together on ventures, projects and
exchanges of technology  information,  Takashi Yamanouchi ,
Mazda’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.  “Mazda will keep a certain level of alliance with Ford,
but gains more management freedom,”  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-
based analyst at TIW Inc. said before the announcement.  Shares  of the Japanese carmaker rose 0.9 percent to 233 yen
at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo, before Mazda’s
announcement. The stock has gained 9.9 percent in 2010.  Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy,
formed an automatic-transmission joint venture with Mazda in
1969 and acquired a 25 percent stake in the Japanese automaker
in 1979. The U.S. carmaker took effective control of the
Japanese company in 1996, raising its stake to 33.4 percent.  Stake Cuts  Ford cut its stake  to 13 percent in Nov. 2008 to raise
funds amid the global financial crisis, and a share issue by
Mazda last year further reduced that holding to 11 percent.  “We aren’t  considering  a capital tie-up at all with any
other carmaker and do not intend to consider any,” Yamanouchi
said at a briefing in Tokyo today. Still, the company is open to
supplying its technology to other automakers, he said.  Several of Ford’s current models were developed with Mazda.
The new Fiesta small car is based on the mechanical foundation
of the Mazda2 subcompact, Ford’s Fusion family sedan is based on
the Mazda6 platform and its new Ranger pickup truck is built
alongside its mechanical twin, the Mazda BT-50, at the factory
in Thailand that the automakers jointly own.  China Venture  The second-largest U.S. automaker signaled in December that
it intends to end developing cars and trucks jointly with Mazda.  “For a lot of designing and engineering, we’re going to be
focused on Ford,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s president for the
Americas and a former Mazda chief executive, said at the time.
“Our efforts will be focused on the Ford system, as opposed to
relying on others such as Mazda.”  Mazda is still awaiting approval from authorities in China
on its proposal to restructure its venture in the nation,
Yamanouchi said. Mazda, Ford and Chongqing Changan Automobile
Co. submitted a proposal to restructure their partnership in
China, the Japanese carmaker said in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yuki Hagiwara  in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net 
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  