-- Madoff Executives Crupi, Bongiorno Arrested in Connection With Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-11-18T21:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/former-madoff-executives-crupi-bongiorno-placed-under-arrest-fbi-reports.html
Two former executives of  Bernard Madoff  appeared in court after their arrests in connection with
the money manager’s multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme, which has
led to charges against at least eight people.  Annette Bongiorno , 62, who recruited investors and helped
run Madoff’s investment advisory office, was picked up today at
her home in Boca Raton, Florida, Federal Bureau of Investigation
spokesman  Jim Margolin  said.  Joann Crupi , 49, was arrested at
her home in Westfield, New Jersey, Margolin said.  The U.S. announced an indictment in Manhattan against
Bongiorno, who spent more than 40 years at Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, and Crupi, who worked there for 27
years, adding them to a previous felony case brought against
other Madoff employees. A separate civil complaint against both
women was filed today by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in federal court in Manhattan.  “Bernard Madoff perpetrated the largest financial fraud in
history, but as we allege again today, others criminally
assisted his epic crime,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara 
said in a statement.  “A house of cards is almost never built by one lone
architect,” Bharara said. “As described in the superseding
indictment, year after year, Annette Bongiorno and Joann Crupi
protected and perpetrated the Madoff mirage, while putting very
real money in their own pockets.”  “We look forward to demonstrating that she is not guilty
of any of the crimes charged,” Bongiorno’s lawyer, Maurice
Sercarz, said in an interview.  $5 Million Bail  U.S. Magistrate Judge  Frank Maas  in New York imposed bail
of $5 million on Crupi. Crupi’s bond will require three
signatures: her own, her partner’s and one from a financially
responsible party. She could be released as early as today, Maas
said.  “We knew that this was coming and we are prepared to meet
these charges and disprove them,”  Eric Breslin , Crupi’s lawyer,
said after the bail hearing. Breslin said he would try to get a
responsible third person to co-sign the bond and attempt to get
his client released from federal custody tonight.  Bongiorno was ordered held over the weekend at the Palm
Beach County Jail by U.S. Magistrate Judge  Ann E. Vitunac , who
presided over Bongiorno’s initial court appearance today in
federal court in West Palm Beach, Florida.  The jail is a state facility also used by federal law
enforcement, Vitunac said.  ‘Snowbird’  One of her lawyers, Nina Mandel, described Bongiorno as a
“snowbird,” telling Vitunac she left New York for Florida two
weeks ago even though she knew criminal charges were likely.  Wearing a black V-neck T-shirt, khaki pants, flip-flops and
bifocals, Bongiorno arrived handcuffed for the hearing. Her
husband, Rudy, was in the courtroom. He later declined to
comment.  “I understand most of it, I don’t understand all of it,”
Bongiorno told the judge when asked if she understood the
charges. When asked if she comprehended the penalties she faces,
she responded, “I guess so.”  Bongiorno, who started as an administrator for Madoff in
1968, and Crupi, who was hired by the firm in 1983 as a keypunch
operator, were charged with conspiracy, securities fraud,
falsifying books and records of a broker-dealer, falsifying
books and records of an investment adviser and committing tax
evasion.  Bongiorno faces as much as 75 years in prison if convicted
of all charges, the U.S. said. Crupi faces as much as 65 years
in prison if convicted of all counts, prosecutors said.  $8.5 Billion  Bongiorno managed Madoff investor accounts in November 2008
that purportedly held a balance of about $8.5 billion while
Crupi controlled accounts with a balance of about $900 million,
prosecutors said.  While claiming to execute trades, the two women simply
posted fabricated transactions in their records and backdated
them with historical prices to show a gain, the U.S. said.  The SEC alleges Crupi knew the financial condition of
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme and its dwindling assets.  On Dec. 3, 2008, Madoff’s chief finance officer,  Frank DiPascali Jr ., told Crupi that the scheme was about to collapse,
the SEC and prosecutors alleged. She continued to process at
least $48 million in client deposits through Dec. 12, the SEC
claimed.  DiPascali, who was Bongiorno’s immediate supervisor,
pleaded guilty to participating in Madoff’s fraud in August 2009
and is cooperating with the government.  Funds Dwindle  When funds dwindled to a few hundred million dollars in the
days before the firm collapsed, Crupi allegedly helped DiPascali
review investor lists and identify which accounts should be
cashed out. Madoff approved the moves and Crupi also prepared
more than $350 million in checks for “preferred” investors,
the U.S. said.  FBI agents found the checks on Crupi’s desk after Madoff’s
arrest on Dec. 11, 2008, according to the indictment.  Bongiorno took $14.4 million out of the investment fund by
creating sham trades in her own account, where she deposited a
total of $920,000 from 1975 to 2008, the government charged.  She also received $325,000 in off-the-books payments from
the firm, prosecutors charged.  Crupi allegedly received payments of more than $2.7 million
from Madoff in 2008, taken directly from Madoff investor
accounts, prosecutors said. She received more than $270,000 in
off-the-books income from the firm, the U.S. said.  The U.S. in February charged  Daniel Bonventre , Madoff’s ex-
operations chief, adding him to an indictment against  Jerome O’Hara  and  George Perez , two programmers who worked at Madoff’s
investment business, who were charged last year. All three have
pleaded not guilty. No trial date has been set.  Accountant’s Plea  Madoff’s accountant,  David Friehling , has pleaded guilty to
helping Madoff prepare phony tax returns and is also cooperating
with prosecutors.  Bongiorno worked as Madoff’s personal secretary in the
1980s. She also had clerical duties at Madoff Securities.
Clients who discovered the wrong Social Security numbers on
their statements were told to call Bongiorno, according to a
copy of one such notice.  Bongiorno, who was raised in Howard Beach, New York, and
also has a house in Manhasset, New York, introduced DiPascali,
her neighbor, to the firm in the 1970s, according to a former
employee.  Prosecutors have been seeking to seize more than $2 million
in cash and the New York and Florida homes from Bongiorno and
her husband, a former electrician with the New York City
Department of Transportation. The couple is fighting the seizure
attempt.  150 Years  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty last year to fraud and was
sentenced to 150 years in prison for using new investors’ funds
for payouts to existing ones in a scheme that ran from at least
the early 1990s.  At the time of Madoff’s arrest, his firm’s statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
investments, according to  Irving Picard , the trustee overseeing
the bankruptcy of Madoff Securities. Investors lost about $20
billion in principal.  The Madoff case is U.S. v. Madoff, 09-cr-213, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 