-- Gail May Raise $420 Million Selling Bonds in India, Borrowing From U.S.
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-11-18T07:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/gail-may-raise-420-million-selling-bonds-in-india-borrowing-from-u-s-.html
GAIL India Ltd. , the nation’s
biggest natural gas distributor, plans to raise about $420
million borrowing from the U.S. Export-Import Bank and selling
local-currency debt to fund projects.  The state-run company, which got approval for a $100
million loan from Exim Bank recently, has applied for another
$100 million, Finance Director  R.K. Goel  said in a telephone
interview today. The utility plans to raise 10 billion rupees
($220 million) in the year ending March 31 by selling bonds,
commercial paper and raising funds from other state-run
companies.  Oil producers including  Indian Oil Corp.  and  Hindustan
Petroleum Corp.  are planning to raise overseas debt this fiscal
year to take advantage of cheaper interest rates as they expand
in India to meet rising demand in Asia’s second-biggest energy
consumer. GAIL plans to spend 400 billion rupees by 2015 to
almost double its pipeline network to 15,000 kilometers (5,900
miles), according to Chairman  B.C. Tripathi .  “We are raising the money for our projects,” Goel said.
“The U.S. Exim bank loan is under finalization and the domestic
debt could come up any time now.”  HSBC Holdings Plc is helping arrange the loan from Exim
Bank, Goel said. The loan will pay interest of a “few basis
points higher” than the London Interbank Offered Rate, he said,
without elaborating.  He declined to provide details on what the loan is
financing.  Raising Funds  GAIL  shares  fell 0.8 percent to 486 rupees at 11:38 a.m.
local time in Mumbai. The stock is up 18 percent this year
compared with a 14 percent gain in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index .  The company plans to raise the equivalent of about 20
billion rupees selling bonds overseas for the first time, Goel
said on Jan. 18. The foreign-currency bond sale is unlikely
before March 31, he said today, without giving a reason.  GAIL and its units have 22.6 billion rupees of  debt 
outstanding, according to Bloomberg data.  The New Delhi-based company plans to invest in building
gas-fired power plants and wind and solar projects, Chairman
Tripathi told shareholders on Sept. 22.  The utility plans to spend 81.4 billion rupees to double
the capacity of its chemical plant in the northern state of
Uttar Pradesh, he said.  Indian Oil, the nation’s biggest refiner, may raise $500
million from the sale of bonds overseas this financial year,
Finance Director  Serangulam V. Narasimhan  said on Nov. 13.  Hindustan Petroleum plans to borrow $200 million overseas,
Finance Director  B. Mukherjee  said a day earlier. Loans overseas
are as much as 4 percentages points cheaper than local debt,
Mukherjee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 