-- Gas in U.S. Cheaper Than Canada's Signals Imports to Slide: Energy Markets
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2010-11-18T21:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/gas-in-u-s-cheaper-than-canada-s-signals-imports-to-slide-energy-markets.html
U.S.  natural gas  has dropped to its
cheapest level in 11 months relative to  Canadian supplies  as
production surges, threatening a slump in imports from the
nation’s northern neighbor.  Benchmark prices at the Henry Hub in Louisiana were  5 cents
below  gas at AECO in Alberta, Canada’s largest hub, on Nov. 8,
the biggest discount since Dec. 11, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It was $1 higher than AECO gas as recently as July
and August and has been an average of 85 cents more expensive
than the Canadian benchmark price for the past 10 years.  U.S. output is surging as companies increase drilling for
gas from shale formations. Production of the fuel will rise in
2010 to the highest level in 37 years, the Energy Department in
Washington said Nov. 9. U.S. imports through pipelines, 99
percent of which come from Canada, and via LNG shipments will
fall 11 percent to  a net 7.33 billion  cubic feet a day this year
compared with 2008, the lowest amount since 1998, it said.  “Imports from Canada will likely see further
deterioration, given the simultaneous growth of low-cost U.S.
shale production and large-scale pipeline projects that will
enable these supplies to compete head-on with Canadian
production,” said  Teri Viswanath , a director of commodities
research at Credit Suisse Securities USA in Houston.  Gas at the  Henry Hub  rose 11 cents, or 3 percent, to $3.79
per million British thermal units yesterday, bringing its
decline in 2010 to 35 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  AECO spot  gas advanced 8 cents, or 2.3 percent, to
$3.64 per million Btu, down 34 percent this year.  Record Supplies  U.S. gas stockpiles climbed to an unprecedented 3.843
trillion cubic feet in the week ended Nov. 12, the Energy
Department reported today. Storage of the fuel in Canada rose to
638.3 billion cubic feet in the week ended Nov. 5, the highest
level since at least 2002, according to Canadian Enerdata.
Canada accounted for about 14 percent of U.S. supply last year.  The slide in prices prompted Calgary-based Encana Corp.,
Canada’s largest gas producer, to scale back its investment and
production outlook last month. The company will defer about $200
million of its proposed $5 billion in spending until next year,
according to an Oct. 20 statement. Output will climb about 12
percent to the equivalent of 3.315 billion cubic feet daily
compared with 2009, it said. The company previously forecast a
15 percent increase.  ‘Unsustainably Low’  “North America’s ongoing oversupply of natural gas
production has driven prices for the near term to levels that we
believe are unsustainably low,” Encana Chief Executive Officer
 Randy Eresman  said in the statement.  Gas for December delivery on the New York Mercantile
Exchange fell 2.3 cents to settle at $4.007 per million Btu
today. The futures have tumbled 28 percent this year.  U.S. net gas imports from Canada may drop 2 billion cubic
feet a day from current levels by 2015, Bentek Energy LLC, based
in Evergreen, Colorado, said today in a report.  Rising production of shale gas and pipeline expansions
“will facilitate the ongoing U.S. production boom and keep
downward pressure on what are already some of the lowest gas
prices in the past two decades,” Bentek said in the report.
“This in turn will increasingly squeeze Canadian imports out of
the U.S. market.”  U.S. gas production will average 61.49 billion cubic feet a
day this year, the highest level since 1973, the Energy
Department said in its monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook 
published Nov. 9.  Production from shale wells  rose 71 percent in
2008 from a year earlier to 2.02 trillion cubic feet and will
account for 34 percent of output by 2035, compared with 17
percent in 2008, department data show.  LNG Exports  Rising U.S. production is encouraging energy companies to
turn to export markets for customers, requiring the construction
of liquefaction plants to cool the fuel into a liquid that can
be put onto ships.  Kitimat LNG , a company 51 percent owned by Houston-based
Apache Corp., plans to build an export terminal in British
Columbia that would start operations in 2014.  Houston-based  Cheniere Energy Inc.  said it aims to develop
the first LNG export terminal in the lower 48 states at Sabine
Pass in Louisiana. Exports may start by 2015, Cheniere said in a
statement. Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc. signed an agreement
with Cheniere on Nov. 8 to use the export terminal.  “Now both Canada and the U.S. may become LNG exporters,”
said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG Economics, an energy
research and analysis firm in London, Arkansas.  Cargo Prices  LNG for delivery in 30 days sold for $9.45 per million Btu
yesterday in East Asia and $7.52 in Northwest Europe, according
to Spectron Group, the brokerage owned by freight-derivatives
broker Imarex ASA.  Exporting LNG becomes profitable so long as prices are $2
to $3 above Henry Hub gas, according to  Paul Posoli , head of
global power, gas, coal and emissions at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Houston. JPMorgan exported a previously imported LNG cargo from
the Cheniere-owned Sabine Pass terminal in Louisiana in June,
according to the Energy Department.  “It’s pretty unusual to see Canadian gas becoming more
expensive,” said  Martin King , an analyst at FirstEnergy Capital
Corp. in Calgary. Exporting to the U.S. “hasn’t been
financially attractive.”  There were 163 rigs drilling for gas in Canada in the week
ended Nov. 12, according to Houston-based  Baker Hughes  Inc.,
down 10 percent this year.  U.S. gas rigs  totaled 955, up 27
percent in 2010.  Horizontal rigs, which are mostly used for shale-gas
drilling, fell by three from a record high to 940.  LNG imports will total 1.27 billion cubic feet a day this
year, the Energy Department said on Nov. 9, down 31 percent from
1.83 billion estimated in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  