-- Gazprom May Delay Nigerian Investment Plans Until Next Year
-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 2010-11-18T15:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/gazprom-may-delay-nigerian-investment-plans-until-next-year.html
OAO Gazprom , the world’s largest gas
producer, may delay plans to invest billions of dollars in
Nigeria until after an oil bill is passed and general elections
are held next year.  “Any investment decision has to be after the elections,”
 Vladimir Ilyanin , chief executive officer of Gazprom’s Nigerian
unit, said in an interview yesterday in the capital city of
Abuja. Once the polls are over and legislation is passed,
“we’ll roll out our plans.”  Nigeria has Africa’s biggest hydrocarbon reserves of about
36 billion barrels of crude oil and 187 trillion cubic feet of
gas, according to the Petroleum Ministry. The country plans to
spend $30 billion to build a gas pipeline network and processing
facilities to supply domestic users and a pipeline across the
Sahara Desert to Europe. Failure to link power plants now under
construction to gas supplies by investing in a pipeline network
will frustrate efforts to end chronic power shortages,  Bart Nnaji , presidential adviser on power, said Nov. 8.  The country’s parliament is working on new petroleum
industry legislation that will spell out rules for operating in
the oil and gas business. The law is likely to be approved
before the end of this year,  Emmanuel Egbogah , presidential
adviser on petroleum, said Nov. 16.  The delay in passing the bill is a “major impediment,”
Ilyanin said. “We need clear rules and a level-playing
ground.”  Shell, Chevron  International oil companies, including Royal Dutch Shell
Plc and Chevron Corp., have protested against proposals to raise
oil royalties and taxes, which they say will discourage capital-
intensive investments in the country’s deep offshore waters.
Nigeria says oil production will remain competitive under the
provisions of the law.  Last year, Gazprom signed an agreement in Abuja to form a
company called NiGaz Energy Co. Ltd. that will invest in gas
production, transportation and infrastructure in Nigeria.  Boris Ivanov , head of Gazprom’s global exploration and production
unit, valued the venture at a minimum of $2.5 billon.  “The projects are long term” and the partners are in “a
lot of discussions,” according to Ilyanin.  Gazprom also has an understanding with Nigerian energy
company Oando Plc “to jointly develop projects in multiple
sectors of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry.” The two operators
were among 15 energy companies selected by the Nigerian
government in March last year as potential investors to help
develop gas projects.  Political tension has heightened in Africa’s most populous
nation after President  Goodluck Jonathan , a southerner from the
oil-rich Niger Delta region, declared his intention to run for
president again in the elections expected to be held in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 