-- GE Survey Finds Midsize Companies See Better Economy
-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2010-11-18T16:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/ge-capital-survey-finds-recovery-optimism-hiring-among-mid-size-companies.html
GE Capital , one of the biggest
lenders to small and midsize U.S. companies this year, said a
survey showed most chief financial officers see improved capital
access, low to moderate economic growth and “healthy” hiring.  “None of the CFOs expect a double dip, and 84 percent see
stable to improving” economic conditions,  Dan Henson , who
oversees GE Capital in the Americas, a unit of Fairfield,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. , said in a telephone
interview. “The picture has absolutely improved. You’ve got
some moderate to decent growth.”  That’s in contrast to the survey GE Capital commissioned in
the first quarter, in which about half of the CFOs queried said
they were holding back from large capital purchases amid
sluggish orders and stalled access to loans, Henson said.  The latest results are aligned with October’s U.S. jobs
statistics, which showed employment rising for the first time in
five months, a sign that businesses may be starting to gain
confidence in the prospects for a faster pace of growth.  The survey, whose results were released today, comprised
530 chief financial officers drawn from seven industries whose
companies had $50 million to $1 billion in annual revenue.
Sixty-two percent of the finance chiefs said their companies
started hiring in 2010, with 56 percent expecting to continue
adding workers through the rest of the year. Transportation CFOs
led in anticipated workforce growth.  Cost of Capital  About 86 percent of respondents said they expect low to
moderate growth for their businesses in the next few years. Cost
of capital should improve, 75 percent said, while 85 percent
said the amount of available credit should stay the same or
improve.  GE, whose other  divisions  include the world’s biggest
providers of jet engines, power-plant turbines, medical imaging
equipment and locomotives,  rose  35 cents, or 2.2 percent, to
$16.16 at 10:47 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. Before today they had climbed 4.5 percent.  The U.S. deficit was the biggest concern, by a 2-to-1
majority, among CFOs across all the industries, except for the
health-care financial chiefs, who named health-care reform
instead. Eighty-three percent of respondents saw health-care
costs having a moderate or significant effect on their
businesses.  Buoyed by Trends  The  GE Capital Commercial Lending and Leasing  unit, with
$204 billion in assets and commonly known as CLL, is being
buoyed by the trends, taking market share amid fewer
competitors, Henson said. In the  third quarter , GE said the CLL
division as a whole had a 29 percent increase in volume, with
$443 million in profit on $4.55 billion in revenue.  CFOs were polled in 30-minute interviews using data from
 Dun & Bradstreet Corp.,  the Short Hills, New Jersey-based
business information and database provider, GE said. The
respondents weren’t necessarily GE Capital customers.  Seven industries were included: metals, mining and metals
fabrication; food, beverage and agriculture; general
manufacturing; retail; healthcare; technology and business
services; and transportation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ; 