-- General Motors Gains in NYSE Return After IPO Raises $20 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2010-11-19T01:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/general-motors-returns-to-nyse-after-raising-20-billion-in-ipo.html
General Motors Co. , which went
bankrupt last year after almost a century on the New York Stock
Exchange, advanced in its return to public trading following an
initial public offering that raised more than $20 billion.  GM gained 3.6 percent to $34.19 today, after climbing 9.1
percent in the first hour of trading. Its owners, including the
Treasury, sold  $15.8 billion  of common shares at $33 each in the
second-largest U.S. IPO on record. The automaker’s $4.35 billion
offering of  preferred shares  and an overallotment option may
boost the total to $23.1 billion, more than the $22.1 billion
raised by Beijing-based  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  in the
biggest IPO of common stock in history.  The offering by GM came 16 months after it emerged from
bankruptcy and brings Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson  closer
to his goal of returning the $49.5 billion the automaker
received in a taxpayer bailout last year. The Treasury, which
will get as much as $13.6 billion from the IPO, will have to
sell its remaining GM shares at an average of about $53 each to
make back its total investment, Bloomberg data show.  “You want to have some improvement, because that shows
there was strong demand for the shares,” said  Peter Jankovskis ,
who helps manage $2.2 billion as co-chief investment officer at
Oakbrook Investments LLC in Lisle, Illinois. “But the bigger
that jump, it’s really a sign that the offering left some money
on the table. That’s a very large deal in dollar terms.”  More than  458 million  GM shares changed hands in the
automaker’s first day of trading, more than any other U.S. IPO
since at least 1994, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  GM, Lehman  GM, whose predecessor was listed on the NYSE on Dec. 20,
1916, according to the exchange’s website, started trading today
under the ticker  GM . The Detroit-based automaker was listed on
the Toronto Stock Exchange under the ticker GMM.  General Motors Corp. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection on June 1, 2009, after the failure of New York-based
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 froze credit
markets and helped cause the longest recession since the Great
Depression.  GM’s owners sold 478 million shares of common stock
yesterday for $33 each, trailing behind only San Francisco-based
 Visa Inc.’s  record $19.7 billion U.S. IPO in March 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Treasury needed to sell all of the  GM  shares it held at
an average price of $43.67 to break even on its investment. That
would require its remaining 500 million shares to be sold at
$53.07 each, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Treasury’s Stake  “We will only get our money back if we are very patient
and if GM performs very well,” said  Joe Phillippi , principal of
consulting firm AutoTrends Inc. in Short Hills, New Jersey. “GM
will really have to hit the ball out of the park in the next
couple of years.”  The Treasury offered about 358.5 million shares in the IPO,
95 million more shares than initially planned, and the United
Auto Workers’ retiree health-care trust sold 89 million,
according to GM’s regulatory filings. The U.S. government may
sell an additional 53.8 million shares in the overallotment
option, while the UAW trust may offer 13.35 million more.  Overall, the $15.8 billion sale of common shares raised
almost 50 percent more than the $10.6 billion that GM initially
sought, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s more of an art than a science in trying to find a
sweet spot between supply and demand,” GM’s Akerson said today
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “We have a very high-
quality shareholder base. That is all very positive.”  ‘Important Step’  The IPO would lower the Treasury’s stake to 37 percent, or
33 percent with the overallotment option, from 61 percent, the
filings showed. The UAW trust’s holdings would drop to 14
percent, or 13 percent with the option, from 20 percent.  GM’s IPO “is an important step in the turnaround of the
company and for our work to recover taxpayer dollars and exit
this investment as soon as practicable,” Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  said in a statement. “It is now widely
recognized that the taxpayers’ investment not only helped save
jobs during the worst economic crisis in a generation but also
gave the auto industry a solid foundation on which to build.”  While the Treasury increased the number of shares it had
originally planned to sell, Canada and Ontario left their
portion of the offering unchanged. Canada will recover more of
its investment in the bailout than if it sold more shares in the
IPO if GM shares rise. GM boosted its offering price to as much
as $33 on Nov. 16, from $26 to $29.  Relative Value  Canada and Ontario contributed a combined $10.6 billion to
the GM bailout, of which $1.1 billion has been repaid. The two
were selling 30.4 million shares in the IPO to decrease their
stake to as low as 9.3 percent.  At $33 a share,  GM  was valued at 7.8 times this year’s
earnings, based on its net income in the first nine months of
2010. Dearborn, Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co.  also trades at 7.8
times analysts’ estimates for 2010 profit, the data show. Ford
has been the world’s most profitable automaker this year through
September.  GM, which lost $82 billion from 2005 to 2008, was valued at
an average of 10.3 times profit from 2000 through 2004, monthly
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ford  traded at an average of 13
times earnings in the same period.  GM reported third-quarter net income of $2.16 billion last
week, bringing its  earnings  this year to $4.77 billion. While
the company will have positive earnings before interest and
taxes in the fourth quarter, they will be “significantly
lower” than the first three quarters of the year, Akerson said
on a Nov. 10 conference call.  ‘Underappreciated Story’  The automaker sold shares after the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  rose to a two-year high this month on speculation the U.S.
economy won’t slip back into a recession. The benchmark gauge
for U.S. equity rallied 1.5 percent today after snapping its
longest  losing streak  since August yesterday.  “GM is an underappreciated story,” said  Dan Veru , co-
chief investment officer at Palisade Capital Management LLC in
Fort Lee, New Jersey, which oversees $3.1 billion. “The stock
is going to work its way into the mid-$40s.”  Shanghai-based  SAIC Motor Corp. , GM’s partner in China,
bought a 0.97 percent stake in GM for $500 million, the Chinese
automaker said in a statement today. The Kuwait Investment
Authority may acquire a stake of 1 percent or less, a person
familiar with the deal said this week.  The Dealmakers  Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp.
and Citigroup Inc. led the IPO that included 35 underwriters,
which shared $118.3 million in fees for the sale of common
shares, according to a GM filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG,
Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of
Canada were also listed in the prospectus.  “GM spread a lot of love across the market,” said
 Frederic Dickson , the Lake Oswego, Oregon-based chief investment
strategist at D.A. Davidson & Co., which oversees $28 billion.
“It was in everybody’s best interest to have it be a successful
deal, but not too successful. It appeared to accomplish that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 