-- General Motors Plans Aggressive Marketing Efforts After IPO, Ewanick Says
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/general-motors-plans-aggressive-marketing-efforts-after-ipo-ewanick-says.html
General Motors Co. , which raised
more than $20 billion an initial public offering yesterday, will
be more aggressive marketing its brands now that it is publicly
traded again, the automaker’s top marketer said.  “There were things we would have tried or done that we did
not do” during the pre-IPO quiet period,  Joel Ewanick , GM’s
vice president of U.S. marketing, said today in an interview in
Los Angeles. “Now, you’ll start seeing more and more.”  GM will be more active in advertising during the National
Football League’s Super Bowl championship game, and Chevrolet is
planning monthly marketing efforts for its new Cruze compact car
even after the traditional introduction period, he said.  As part of the increased marketing, GM’s Chevrolet brand
said today it would spend $40 million on clean-energy projects
through the U.S. to reduce 8 million metric tons of carbon
dioxide. GM said the reduction equals the 2011 emissions of the
Chevrolet vehicles it expects to sell in the next year.  The spending in the next three to five years may help
install energy sensors and solar panels at schools and support
wind-energy projects, GM said. Chevrolet has a growing lineup of
fuel-efficient vehicles, including the electric Chevy Volt.  The automaker will seek projects that wouldn’t be able to
take place without the funding, Ewanick said.  GM, which has sought environmental experts’ help in
defining project criteria, said it will make the investments
through third-party organizations, such as the Portland, Oregon-
based Bonneville Environmental Foundation.  Ewanick said last month that GM would spend slightly more
on advertising next year than the $2.5 billion the company spent
in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Los Angeles, California, at   thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  