-- Genzyme’s Wait for Higher Bid Risky, Orbimed Says
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2010-11-18T21:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/genzyme-wait-for-higher-bid-risky-due-to-plant-orbimed-says.html
Genzyme Corp. ’s wait for a takeover
offer higher than  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s hostile bid is risky
because of the biotechnology company’s manufacturing record,
shareholder OrbiMed Advisors LLC said.  “There’s a little bit of risk,”  Geoffrey Hsu , a partner
with New York-based OrbiMed, said in an interview in London
yesterday. “Genzyme has not got a great record in
manufacturing.”  Genzyme said in May that the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration asked it to move bottling and shipping processes
out of its Allston Landing facility because of quality
deficiencies. The company has until Nov. 28 to transfer work for
U.S. supplies of some of its medicines. Regulators can impose a
penalty of 18.5 percent of revenue for those products if the
deadlines aren’t met. Nov. 28 is “a very important date for
Genzyme,” Hsu said.  Genzyme Chief Executive Officer  Henri Termeer  told
investors last month the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company
was trying to assess its value and gauge outside interest. He
estimated Genzyme may be worth $89 a share after lifting its
profit forecast. Sanofi took its $18.5 billion, or $69 a share,
offer for Genzyme hostile on Oct.4 after the largest maker of
medicines for rare genetic disorders spurned the bid as too low.  Genzyme rose 52 cents to $70.27 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite  trading . The shares have gained 43
percent this year. Sanofi rose 1.7 percent to 50.32 euros in
Paris trading, and has lost 8.6 percent this year.  Paris-based Sanofi is bidding for Genzyme as products
generating about 20 percent of its revenue face generic rivals
by 2013. Genzyme makes the Cerezyme treatment for Gaucher
disease, the Fabrazyme Fabry disease medicine and the thyroid
cancer drug Thyrogen.  Share Sale  OrbiMed sold 805,200 shares in Genzyme on Sept. 30, and
holds about 1.6 million, according to Bloomberg data. OrbiMed is
the world’s largest health-care dedicated investment fund with
about $5 billion under management, according to information on
its  website .  Chris Viehbacher , Sanofi’s chief executive officer, has
visited OrbiMed’s offices twice since the takeover bid, said
Hsu. “He’s pretty committed to the deal, but he doesn’t want to
pay more than he has to,” Hsu said of Viehbacher.  OrbiMed expects the transaction to take place at around $77
to $78 a Genzyme share, he said. “We would hope another bid
turns up,” Hsu said, naming  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.  and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  as “on the table” for a potential bid.  Genzyme started talks with Takeda to try to sell itself for
more than $18.5 billion, the Mail on Sunday reported Nov. 14,
citing a person familiar with the matter. Mihoko Shinomiya, a
spokeswoman for Osaka, Japan-based Takeda, declined to comment
on the report Nov. 15. Takeda makes Actos, the world’s best-
selling diabetes drug.  Approaches  Takeda, which could pay $82 a share, is among several
drugmakers, including London-based Glaxo, that Genzyme has
approached in recent weeks to foil the hostile offer from
Sanofi, the London newspaper said.  Claire Brough , a spokeswoman
at Glaxo, declined to comment today.  Genzyme’s business supply is not obviously compatible with
many of the big pharmaceutical companies, “but if you want a
position in biotech, Genzyme is the way,” Hsu said.  Genzyme’s  drugs  for genetic diseases are made using
biological processes and are harder for generic competitors to
copy than pills made from chemicals. The FDA has designated the
therapies “orphan drugs” because they target diseases that
lack other treatment options, giving them added patent
protection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  