-- Georgia to Use $350 Million of Contingency Funds for Transportation Work
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 2010-11-18T19:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/georgia-to-use-350-million-of-contingency-funds-for-transportation-work.html
Georgia will tap surplus
transportation contingency funds for the first time to finance
projects worth as much as $350 million to make up for the loss
of federal stimulus funds and lower fuel-tax revenue.  The funds will be allocated by the end of December and
spent in the first quarter of next year,  David Spear , a
spokesman for the  Department of Transportation , said in a
telephone interview today. The money is in addition to normal
project outlays, he said.  Georgia’s spending on transport work has fallen during the
past three fiscal years to less than $50 million a month from
about $100 million monthly, Spear said. It could fall further as
the department braces for the end of  federal stimulus  funds next
year and declining revenue from fuel taxes.  Using contingency funds is “a stop-gap measure,” said
Spear. “Highway contractors are laying people off and going out
of business; we can’t afford to lose any.”  The 13-member  Georgia Transportation Board , which oversees
the department, unanimously approved the funding today in
Atlanta, according to an e-mail release. The contingency fund,
which held a surplus because of federal aid, will have about
$250 million remaining after the disbursement, said Spear.  Federal stimulus funds contributed $750 million to the
department since 2009, said Spear. Revenue from fuel taxes,
which the department uses for operational expenses, fell to less
than $800 million in fiscal 2010, which ended June 30, from $1.2
billion in 2007, he said.  “Long term, motor-fuel tax revenues are just going to
continue to decline,” said Spear. To make up for the losses, an
increase in the tax and new revenue sources such as  public-
private partnerships  are being considered, he said.  Capital and Maintenance  The department will use $250 million of the contingency
funds for capital and maintenance projects and $100 million for
right-of-way purchases, the e-mail said. Projects will be
selected from among 270 that would cost about $650 million to
complete.  “This industry needs as much support as we can provide,”
transportation board Chairman  Rudy Bowen  said in the release.
“Our action today will end up creating and saving jobs across
Georgia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Baribeau  in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 