-- Germans Bail Out Christmas With Biggest Splurge in Six Years
-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 2010-11-18T23:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/germans-bail-out-christmas-with-biggest-splurge-in-six-years.html
Just as Germany’s government bails
out its European partners, so the country’s consumers are
leading the Christmas cheer.  Germans will spend 76.9 billion euros ($105 billion) in
November and December, 2.5 percent more than last year and the
strongest growth since 2004, according to the  HDE  retail
association. Deloitte LLP also said retail spending will rise
“slightly,” even as most of western Europe contracts.  “Germany is an island of bliss within a pessimistic
Europe,” Peter Thormann, head of Deloitte’s consumer business
in Germany, said in an interview. “I haven’t seen this for the
last 10 years at least.”  The country’s  jobless rate  fell to an 18-year low in
October, boosting consumer confidence at the start of a quarter
when some retailers generate all their annual profit. After a
decade where consumer spending barely grew, sales may gain as
companies including  Porsche SE  reward workers with bonuses.  “I see a clear improvement compared to last year’s
business -- customers aren’t asking so much about prices and
just buy what they like,” said Yoensis Mahlau, who runs the MCM
leather-goods store on Dusseldorf’s Koenigsallee. Men are
spending more on their wives, snapping up cognac-colored retro-
style bags for about 500 euros each, she added.  Christmas Markets  Germans, whose 2,500 outdoor Christmas markets attract
tourists from around the world, traditionally spend less than
the rest of Europe on Christmas presents and festive meals such
as goose with dumplings. Average spending per consumer will be
470 euros this year, compared with about 1,200 euros in
Luxemburg, 1,000 euros in Ireland and 640 euros in Italy,
according to a Deloitte survey.  In western Europe, where euro-area  unemployment  is at a 12-
year high, only Switzerland and Luxemburg are likely to show
stronger growth in Christmas sales, according to Deloitte. A
survey by the accounting firm showed shoppers in 19 western
European countries expect to spend 2.5 percent less.  Douglas Holding AG,  Europe’s biggest perfumery chain and
the owner of the Thalia book stores, is among German retailers
that are optimistic for the festive season.  “Consumer sentiment is positive,” Douglas Chief Executive
Officer  Henning Kreke  said by e-mail. Classic perfumes including
Chanel No. 5 and new fragrances such as Charm Rose by Thomas
Sabo are proving the most popular with customers, Douglas said.  Metro AG’s  Media Markt and Saturn chains also expect “a
good Christmas,”  Roland Weise , CEO of the retailer’s consumer
electronics unit, said by e-mail. Popular selections may include
games consoles, televisions and espresso machines, he said.  Toy Growth  Sabine Niewalda, a city administrator, predicts her
spending will be “slightly higher as my nephew will get a big
monetary donation for a notebook he wants to have.” She will
spend “several hundred” euros in total as she shells out more
on books and games.  Germany’s toy retail association forecasts a 3 percent rise
in sales to a record 2.46 billion euros in 2010, with 40 percent
of revenue coming in the last two months of the year.  Parents will “dig deep into their purses,” for toys, said
association director Willy Fischel.  Last year, seasonal spending in Germany dropped 1.6 percent
as the economy was buffeted by the worst crisis since World War
II. Retail sales in Europe’s biggest economy were little changed
at about 400 billion euros over the past decade.  This year, the economy will grow more than 3 percent,
according to the Bundesbank.  Gross domestic product  has grown
for six consecutive quarters since the nation emerged from
recession in the second quarter of 2009.  Christmas Bonuses  Siemens AG  said this month it would spend 310 million euros
on a special bonus for employees and bring forward a 2.7 percent
pay increase for workers in Germany. Chemicals maker Lanxess AG
in August reinstated a year-end bonus, while Porsche is
rewarding workers with a 2,100-euro payout.  “We will spend a bit more than last year as we have got a
child and have more confidence about work,” said 39-year old
gardener Oliver Grunewald. He will spend about 300 euros mostly
for toys and clothes and is buying gifts early this year to
avoid the consumer stampede on advent weekends, he added.  Christmas sales account for about a fifth of all retail
revenue, according to the HDE. Retailers of books, jewelry, toys
and consumer electronics generate 25 percent to 30 percent of
revenue in the period, the association said.  Still, not everything has changed in a year. About 78
percent of Germans will buy discount or private brand food for
their Christmas cooking, according to Deloitte.  “Germans are doing well compared to other Europeans, but
still they are cautious,” said Deloitte’s Thormann.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  