-- Glencore Profit Increases 43% on Metal Price Gains
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-11-18T09:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/glencore-profit-increases-43-on-metal-price-gains-update1-.html
Glencore International AG, the
world’s largest commodity trader, posted its best quarterly
profit since the start of the global recession in 2008, boosting
earnings 43 percent after metal prices rose.  Net income excluding one-time items rose to $979 million in
the three months ended Sept. 30, from $687 million a year
earlier, the Baar, Switzerland-based company said today in a
company report obtained by Bloomberg News. Profit for the first
nine months of the year rose 42 percent to $2.5 billion.  Glencore, owned by its employees, trades oil, metals and
agricultural commodities and controls mines and smelters on five
continents. The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, is studying an initial public offering next year to
raise about $10 billion, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter.  “Market conditions continued to improve in most of our
businesses,” Glencore said today in the statement. Higher metal
prices “produced enhanced margins in the industrial operations,
while attractive market conditions allowed the agricultural
department, in particular, to deliver a strong quarterly
performance.”  The average price of oil in the period rose 12 percent from
a year earlier. Copper averaged 24 percent higher and aluminum
15 percent, according to prices from the  London  Metal Exchange.  Cash and Credit  Glencore’s liquidity, comprising cash and undrawn credit
facilities, was $4.6 billion at Sept. 30, “comfortably above”
the minimum internal $3 billion target, it said. Net debt
increased to $15.2 billion, it said.  The cost of protecting against a Glencore bond default fell
the most in four months to the lowest level since May 10.
Credit-default swaps on the company declined 30 basis points to
213, according to data provider CMA. That means it costs 213,000
euros ($290,000) annually to insure 10 million euros of the
company’s debt for five years.  In December, Glencore sold convertible bonds for the first
time, raising $2.2 billion. The terms valued the company at $35
billion at the time, it said. The debt can be exchanged for
shares should Glencore hold an IPO which would end more than
three decades of the company operating as a closely held
partnership.  London-based brokerage Liberum Capital Ltd. valued Glencore
pre-IPO at $47 billion to $51 billion in a July report. The IPO
would be done in London and possibly  Hong Kong  around April or
May, said the people, who declined to be identified because the
plans are private and no decision has been reached.  Citigroup, Morgan Stanley  Glencore would use the funds to pay current investors,
upgrade plants and acquire assets. The size and timing of the
IPO hasn’t been decided and would depend on market conditions,
the people said.  The company is working with banks including Citigroup Inc.
and Morgan Stanley, while Credit Suisse Group AG may assist in
the process, said two of the people. Glencore has also been
considering a merger with  Xstrata Plc , two people familiar with
the matter said May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  