-- GM's IPO Included Selling Holding of $500 Million to Chinese Partner SAIC
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-11-19T02:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/gm-sells-500-million-stake-to-chinese-partner-saic-as-part-of-stock-offer.html
General Motors Co.  sold a $500
million stake in its initial public offering to Chinese partner
 SAIC Motor Corp ., cementing ties that have helped the American
company boost sales in the world’s largest auto market.  SAIC bought the 0.97 percent stake “on the basis of a good
strategic partnership between the two” and its “confidence in
GM’s development prospects,” the Shanghai-based carmaker said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The company will raise funds
for the investment from Hong Kong financial markets, it said.  The share purchase follows Detroit-based GM saying this
month that it will raise its stake in SAIC-GM-Wuling Automotive
Co., one of the companies’ two partnerships in China, to 44
percent from 34 percent. GM, which went bankrupt last year after
almost a century on the New York Stock Exchange, returned to
public trading yesterday following an initial public offering
that raised more than $20 billion.  “Shanghai Auto, the most successful automotive company in
China, who is our partner in China, is absolutely critical to
GM’s success,”  Dan Akerson , GM’s chief executive officer said
in a Bloomberg Television interview in New York yesterday. “I
think the pairing and the strategic investment by SAIC, and the
relationship that we have is a strong positive, a strong plus
for General Motors.”  GM closed 3.6 percent higher at $34.19 overnight, after
climbing 9.1 percent in the first hour of New York trading. SAIC
 shares  are rose 1.4 percent to 18.26 yuan as of 9:59 a.m. in
Shanghai. The stock has declined 9 percent this year.  China is GM’s biggest market by unit sales and its alliance
with SAIC is the biggest auto-producing venture in the nation.  Strong Partnership  The U.S. carmaker filed for an IPO in August as the U.S.
government seeks to pare the 61 percent stake it gained in the
company through its bankruptcy and $50 billion taxpayer bailout
last year.  GM reported third-quarter net income of $2.16 billion last
week, bringing the automaker’s earnings this year to $4.77
billion. That tops the $4.46 billion profit by  Toyota Motor
Corp. , the world’s largest automaker, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  SAIC owns 50.1 percent of SAIC-GM-Wuling, maker of the
30,000 yuan ($4,521) Sunshine minivan, and 51 percent of
 Shanghai GM , which builds cars such as Chevrolet Lova compacts
and Buick sedans with the U.S. automaker.  International Acquisitions  The Chinese automaker has made international acquisitions
before with SAIC buying a 49 percent stake in South Korea’s
 Ssangyong Motor Co.  for $500 million in 2004. The Pyeongtaek-
based Ssangyong, which entered bankruptcy protection last year
after the global recession squeezed auto sales, may be acquired
by India’s Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.  SAIC also owns the British Rover and MG sports-car brands
and renamed Rover as Roewe in China after taking over the rights
in 2005.  GM and its Chinese joint ventures sold 1.97 million
vehicles through October, a 36 percent increase from a year
earlier, making it the most successful car alliance in China.
That compares with second-ranked  Volkswagen AG , which delivered
1.48 million cars through September.  GM signed a $1.6 billion deal in 1997 with SAIC to build
Buick Regal and Century sedans in its first joint-venture sedan
plant in China.  ‘Good Business’  “With over 60 percent of GM’s vehicle sales coming from
outside the U.S. market, it makes sense for foreign
organizations to take a stake in a company that does so much
business in their backyards,”  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with
IHS Automotive, said in a research note this week. “This is
good business for GM as well as it makes the company less of a
‘‘foreign’’ operator in the various global markets.”  Even so, GM earns more profit in the U.S. than in China.
GM’s North America operations had profits before interest and
taxes of $2.1 billion in the third quarter, while the company’s
international operations, including China, earned $646 million.  The carmakers announced Nov. 3 they will together develop
alternative-energy vehicles as China, the world’s biggest oil
importing nation, seeks to reduce its dependence on the fossil
fuel. They plan to introduce the battery-powered Chevrolet Volt
in China next year.  GM and SAIC, developing a new engine and transmission
system together, also have plans to open four facilities in
China by 2011 to sell and service used cars, the U.S. company
said in an Oct. 28 statement.  GM plans to introduce six SAIC models in India in two
years,  Karl Slym , managing director of the U.S. company’s local
unit, said in Mumbai yesterday. The company aims to spend as
much as $500 million on new models and expanding capacity, he
said.  -- Liza Lin  in Shanghai, with assistance from  Tian Ying  in
Beijing,  David Welch  in Detroit,  Craig Trudell  in New York and
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai. Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Kae Inoue ,
 Vipin V. Nair   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Liza Lin in
Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7010 or  llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  