-- Goldman Sachs Promotes a Record 321 Employees to Managing Director Ranks
-- B y   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-19T03:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/goldman-sachs-promotes-321-to-managing-director-up-from-last-year-s-272.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the most
profitable securities firm in Wall Street history, promoted a
record number of employees to managing director, boosting their
pay and status as investment banks recover from the financial
crisis.  The 321 appointments, up from 272 last year and 259 in
2008, were detailed in an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg
News. The announcement came a day after the New York-based
company selected 110 people to become partners, a designation
that means they share in a special pool of compensation.  Goldman Sachs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , 56, has presided over an expansion of the firm, with
the total number of employees rising to 35,400 from about 24,000
when he took over in mid-2006. In promoting more employees this
year, the company is rewarding people who stayed through the
financial crisis, said  Charles Peabody , an analyst at Portales
Partners LLC.  “It’s a function of trying to regain loyalty after
turbulent times,” said Peabody, who is based in New York and
recommends investors buy Goldman Sachs stock.  Managing directors are one level below the highest rank of
partner. While they typically receive higher pay than more
junior employees, they don’t share in the special bonus pool
reserved for partners.  Most Women Ever  Yesterday’s promotions include the largest group of women
ever, making up 24 percent of the new class, said  Lucas van Praag , a spokesman in New York. Women make up 19 percent of all
managing directors, including the new class, he said. Van Praag
said “over 10 percent” of this year’s new partners are women
and declined to give a more specific figure.  Goldman Sachs was sued in September by three former
employees who alleged that they faced discrimination in pay and
fewer opportunities for promotion than men. Goldman Sachs has
said the suit is without merit.  While half of the new managing directors are based in the
Americas, 28 percent are in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
and 22 percent are in Asia, van Praag said. He said the figures
represent a marginal increase in the number outside the
Americas.  About 45 percent of the new partners are based in the
Americas, with 29 percent in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
and 26 percent in Asia.  “That, I think, is reflective of where their growth is
going to be,” Peabody said of the hires outside the Americas.  The following is a list of the new managing directors from
the internal memo:  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Fineman  in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 