-- Goldman's Poddar, Right in '10, Predicts 7% RBI Rate by June: India Credit
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-11-19T09:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/goldman-s-poddar-right-in-10-predicts-7-rbi-rate-by-june-india-credit.html
Tushar Poddar , the Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. economist who correctly predicted how high India’s
central bank would raise interest rates this year, forecasts
further increases are needed to curb inflation.  The Reserve Bank of India may lift the  repurchase rate  as
much as 75 basis points in the first half of 2011 to 7 percent,
according to Poddar. That’s three times the median estimate of
25 basis points in a survey of 10 economists by Bloomberg News
yesterday. Only HSBC Holdings Plc. shared his forecast. Poddar
estimated in January 150 basis points of increases in 2010, a
call fulfilled by the bank’s Nov. 2 move.  “There is a concern inflation may remain persistent
despite the RBI’s rate action,” Poddar said in the interview in
his office a day after the RBI’s meeting. “Ideally, both the
fiscal and the monetary policy should be tighter than where they
are right now to address inflation and the current-account
deficit.”  Asia’s fastest round of monetary policy tightening
threatens to slow expansion in the $1.3 trillion economy and
push up government borrowing costs. While higher rates would
bolster the rupee by enhancing the premium over the near-zero
borrowing costs in the U.S., a widening current-account deficit
may limit gains and increase exchange-rate swings, Poddar said.  Inflation, IDBI  India’s annual  consumer-price inflation  was 9.82 percent in
September, more than twice China’s and the highest among Group
of 20 nations after Argentina. China, the fastest-growing major
economy, raised its main  one-year lending rate  for the first
time since 2007 last month. Brazil raised benchmark borrowing
costs by 200 basis points this year, while Russia cut by 100.  Elsewhere in India’s credit markets, state-owned lender
 IDBI Bank Ltd.  obtained a $125 million dollar-denominated loan.
 GAIL India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest natural gas distributor,
plans to raise about $420 million borrowing from the U.S.
Export-Import Bank and selling local-currency debt to fund
projects. The nation’s government bonds gained yesterday.  IDBI’s three-year loan will pay interest at 145 basis
points, or 1.45 percentage points, more than the three-month
London interbank offered rate, or Libor, Executive Director
Melwyn Rego said in an interview yesterday. The loan was
arranged by 12 banks, including  BNP Paribas ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and  Standard Chartered Plc , he said.  Government Bonds  GAIL, a state-run company that recently got approval for a
$100 million loan from Exim Bank, has applied for another $100
million, Finance Director  R.K. Goel  said in a telephone
interview. The utility plans to raise 10 billion rupees ($220
million) in the year ending March 31 selling bonds, commercial
paper and raising funds from other state-run companies.  India’s 10-year bond yield rose one basis point to 8.03
percent as of 2:45 p.m. local time today. The bonds gained the
most in more than two weeks yesterday, driving the yield on the
7.80 percent note due May 2020 down five basis points to 8.02
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system. That
was the biggest decline since Nov. 2.  While India’s benchmark 10-year rupee bond yield has risen
44 basis points this year, Poddar predicted it will remain at
about 8 percent through March.  The premium compared with similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries
has advanced to 517 basis points from 375 on Jan. 1, helping to
attract an unprecedented $10 billion of  inflows  into rupee debt
this year, bringing foreigners’ holdings to $17.6 billion.  Rupee Forecast  Goldman forecasts the rupee will strengthen 4.1 percent to
43.40 per dollar in six months, adding to a 2.9 percent gain
this year to 45.20 as of today. It may lag behind some emerging-
market currencies because of India’s  current-account deficit ,
which may be 2.9 percent of gross domestic product for the year
through March, according to Goldman. The firm advised buying
South Korea’s won versus the rupee.  RBI Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  raised the repurchase rate,
used to inject money into the financial system, to 6.25 percent
this year from 4.75 percent, and the  reverse repurchase rate ,
used to withdraw funds, to 5.25 percent from 3.25 percent.  With inflation slowing, and the RBI concluding in September
that monetary policy had already returned “close to normal,”
India’s central bank said Nov. 2 that it probably wouldn’t boost
borrowing costs for at least three months.  “Immediate future rate action is unlikely barring some
shocks,” Subbarao said in a press conference in Mumbai Nov. 2.
He said in a Nov. 3 interview that it may take one or two years
to bring inflation “firmly” under control.  ‘Wait and Watch’  Standard Chartered Plc predicted he will keep rates
unchanged through June to safeguard growth. Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s government wants the nation to achieve a
sustained 10 percent expansion pace. The International Monetary
Fund raised its 2010 economic growth forecast for India on Oct.
6 to 9.7 percent from 9.4 percent, the fastest pace among major
economies after China.  “The RBI will wait and watch,” said Samiran Chakraborty,
a Mumbai-based economist at Standard Chartered who previously
taught at the Delhi School of Economics.  The cost of fixing rates on money for a year has surged a
record 166 basis points this year to 6.72 percent in India’s
interest-rate swaps market, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating rates, increased
24 points this quarter as the Federal Reserve announced plans to
pump $600 million into the U.S. economy by buying Treasuries.  ‘Taking a Risk’  “The RBI is definitely taking a risk not hiking rate
further,” Edwin Gutierrez, a money manager who helps invest $6
billion in emerging market-debt at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc
in London, said in a Nov. 16 interview. “If stronger commodity
prices do indeed feed through from the Fed’s easing, that risk
will prove to be foolhardy.”  India’s  wholesale inflation rate  will reach 6.5 percent in
the year through March, a percentage point higher than the RBI’s
forecast, said Poddar, who researched the monetary systems of
 Jordan  and  Lebanon  while an economist at the International
Monetary Fund before joining Goldman in 2006.  “The pause in the interest-hiking cycle may be temporary
and RBI will resume raising rate in early 2011,” said Poddar,
37. The native of Kolkata earned his doctorate in economics from
the London School of Economics and his bachelor’s degree at
Lawrence University in Appleton, Wisconsin.  Poddar predicted in January the central bank would announce
a shift in its main policy tool to the repurchase rate from the
reverse repo, resulting in monetary tightening to the extent of
another 150 basis points. The RBI did that in July as the
banking system faced a shortage of liquidity.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. underestimated in January the amount
of increases, predicting 0.75 to 1 percentage point before March
2011. Nomura Holdings Inc. the same month forecast a rise of
1.25 percentage points in the repo rate by December, as did HSBC
and Credit Agricole SA. Morgan Stanley correctly forecast the
year-end 6.25 percent level. Deutsche Bank AG had estimated a 6
percent repurchase rate for December 2010, and now see 75 basis
points of increases in 2011, taking it to 7 percent.  “Making forecasts in India is very difficult and can’t be
compared with advanced economies, given the inefficiencies in
the data compilation, such as for inflation,” Poddar said.
After his forecasting success in 2010, he said, “the stakes and
challenges have increased to get the next rate call right.”  ----With assistance from  Manish Modi  in New Delhi and  Anil Varma 
in Mumbai. Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Sandy Hendry   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net . 