-- Greece Pledgesto Cut 2011 Deficit to 7.4% of GDP With Economy Shrinking 3%
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s
-- 2010-11-18T15:40:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/greek-deficit-cutting-goal-may-put-terms-of-bailout-at-risk-euro-credit.html
Greece’s government plans to cut the
budget gap by 5 billion euros ($6.8 billion) in 2011 by reducing
spending, including wages at state companies, and increasing
sales taxes to meet targets under a European Union-led rescue.  The deficit will decline to 7.4 percent of gross domestic
product, or 17 billion euros, from 9.4 percent of GDP this year,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Athens-based Finance
Ministry today. That compares with a target of 7.6 percent under
the May agreement with the EU and the International Monetary
Fund to secure 110 billion euros in emergency loans.  “The 2011 budget must contribute to the absolute adherence
of economic policy and allow the continuation of unobstructed
payment” of the loans, Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou 
told reporters in Athens today. “We all know the country’s
economy is at a critical turning point.”  Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s efforts to reduce the
shortfall are being hampered as revenue growth slows and after
the EU increased its estimate for the country’s deficit in 2009
to 15.4 percent, the largest in the euro’s history. Greece
raised its deficit forecast amid calls from European officials
to do more to meet targets agreed in the EU-led bailout that
saved it from default.  Repeated Revisions  A month ago, Greece predicted it would reduce the budget
gap to 7 percent of GDP next year from the 7.8 percent it
estimated the EU revision. The economy is forecast to shrink 4.2
percent this year and 3 percent in 2011, deeper contractions
than forecast in May.  Repeated revisions of Greece’s budget figures, beginning
after Papandreou revealed last year that the gap was twice a
previous forecast, spurred a surge in borrowing costs that
pushed the country to the brink of default and triggered a
region-wide debt crisis. The  yields premium  investors demand to
hold Greek 10-year bonds over similar-maturity German bunds fell
15 basis points today to 888, down from a high of 973.1 in May.  The budget plan includes 14 billion euros of spending cuts
and revenue measures, more than contained in the draft released
in October. Those efforts include cuts in health-care and
military spending, savings from “interventions” at state-run
companies as well as clamping down on tax evasion and collecting
back taxes. A tax amnesty rushed out last month has so far
raised 300 million euros and will be extended until the end of
the month, Papaconstantinou said.  Public Wages  He said efforts will focus on reducing the salary bill at
public companies including those operating public transport,
where wages commonly outstrip revenue. The plan will save 800
million euros and avoid the need to lay off workers, he said.  It’s “not possible to have salaries at these companies
that are 40 percent higher than the rest of the public sector
and twice those in the private sector,” the minister said.  ADEDY, the largest public-sector union, said it will stage
a 24-hour nationwide strike on Dec. 15 to protest the measures,
joining a strike already called by the  General Confederation of Labor , or GSEE, Greece’s largest private-industry union. ADEDY
will also hold a three-hour work stoppage on Nov. 25,
spokeswoman Despina Spanou said by phone.  The government also pledged to take steps to get more out
of state-controlled assets such as extending the length of the
contract for the Athens International Airport.  The government will increase the lowest sales-tax rate to
13 percent from 11 percent, continue a levy on profitable firms
and freeze pensions to achieve the 2011 targets. To boost
growth, Greece will reduce the tax on non-distributed corporate
profits to 20 percent from 24 percent as well as give the key
tourism sector a cut in value-added tax, reducing the 11 percent
rate to 6.5 percent.  Greece has lowered pensions and wages to offset a lag in
tax-revenue growth that is hobbling deficit-reduction efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  