-- GSMA Explores Software-Based Replacement for Mobile SIM Cards
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2010-11-18T18:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/gsma-explores-software-based-replacement-for-mobile-sim-cards.html
The GSM Association, an organization
of wireless telephone operators including  AT&T Inc. , plans to
replace the removable SIM card connecting handsets to networks
with a system integrated in the devices.  A group of technical experts from companies including
Dallas-based AT&T,  China Mobile Ltd. , Deutsche Telekom AG and
Vodafone Group Plc will complete a market analysis of the
proposal in January, according to a  statement  today. Devices
with embedded SIMs may be available in 2012.  The change would make it easier for consumers to choose or
change providers without visiting a retailer to pick up a card.
Embedded SIMs may also make it simpler to use services such as
payment with near-field communications, or NFC, which lets users
make transactions by waving their phones in front of a reader,
according the GSMA.  “The embedded SIM will provide assured levels of security
and portability for consumers, as well as provide additional
functionality for enabling new services such as e-Wallet and NFC
applications,” GSMA Chief Executive Officer  Rob Conway  said in
the statement.  Apple Inc. is working with Gemalto NV, a maker of smart
cards, to develop a software-based identification system that
would permit users to connect their devices to carriers online
through the iTunes store, French daily Les Echos reported Oct.
29, without saying where it got the information.  Subscriber identity modules, or SIM cards, have been used
for almost 20 years to identify subscribers in GSM wireless
systems covering most of the world. They can be swapped to
change carriers or accounts, and some handsets have space for
two SIM cards. They can also store a limited number of contacts
and text messages.  The SIM cards would continue to work once the new system is
in place, the GSMA said.  The alternative CDMA standard used by Verizon Wireless,
Sprint Nextel Corp. and some Asian carriers typically doesn’t
use SIM cards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  