-- Guinean Army, Police Are Deployed as U.S. Condemns Post-Election Violence
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 2010-11-18T12:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/guinean-army-police-are-deployed-as-u-s-condemns-post-election-violence.html
Guinea ’s authorities deployed army
and police forces across the country as the U.S. urged political
leaders to calm their supporters amid violence sparked by the
disputed outcome of a runoff presidential election.  At least seven people have died in clashes that began when
 Alpha Conde  was declared the winner of the Nov. 7 vote, Agence
France-Presse reported today, without citing anyone. Conde’s
rival in the election, former Prime Minister  Cello Dalein Diallo , has contested the results.  “The army must be deployed across the whole country with
the police force to safeguard order and discipline,” General
Nouhou Thiam, the army chief of staff, said in a statement
broadcast on state-owned  Radio Television Guinneene  in the
capital, Conakry, late yesterday.  The West African nation hasn’t had a democratic transfer of
power since it gained independence from France in 1958. The
clashes are certain to deepen ethnic tension between members of
the pro-Conde Malinke people and the Peul, the nation’s biggest
ethnic group, which mainly backed Diallo, said Mohamed Jalloh, a
West Africa analyst at the Brussels-based  International Crisis
Group .  “The Malinke side of the army is being sent to the streets
to shoot at civilians who are mainly Peul,” he said. “How that
will play out in the military is yet to be seen. It’s a highly
dangerous situation.”  Security Patrols  Police and army vehicles patrolled districts of Conakry
including Hamdallaye, Babmeto, Cosa and Enco-5 where Diallo’s
supporters protested on Nov. 15. Some shops in the city’s main
business district of Kaloum were opened, while the main market
at Madina remained closed.  Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, an ore used to make aluminum. It also has more than 4
billion metric tons of “high-grade” iron ore and “significant”
deposits of diamonds and gold, according to the U.S. State
Department.  Aluminum for delivery in three months rose $9.50, or 0.4
percent, to $2,285 a metric ton at 12:40 p.m. on the London
Metal Exchange.  Companies operating in Guinea include Russia’s  United Co.
Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum producer,  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. , Africa’s biggest gold miner, and Brazil’s  Vale SA , the No.
1 iron-ore producer.  Rusal’s operations in Guinea are working normally and there
are no plans to evacuate any staff, the Moscow-based company
said in an e-mailed statement today. “The state of emergency
hasn’t affected our company’s activities,” it said.  Bauxite Production  Rusal, which currently obtains more than 40 percent of its
bauxite from Guinea, employs more than 2,300 people in the
country, most of them Guineans.  General  Sekouba Konate , the interim president, declared a
state of emergency yesterday that will last until the results of
the election are confirmed by the Supreme Court next week.  AngloGold’s Siguiri gold mine also hasn’t been affected by
the violence, spokesman  Alan Fine  said in an interview from
Johanensburg today.  Three bodies were found yesterday in Taroma, the only
suburb in Conakry where Diallo won in the vote, AFP said. That
adds to four deaths in earlier unrest, the news agency said.  “The U.S. condemns the violent clashes between rival
political supporters in Guinea,” State Department spokesman
 Philip J. Crowley  said in an e-mailed statement. “The U.S. calls
on Guinea’s political leaders to urge their supporters to
refrain from violence.”  French Warning  France warned its citizens against traveling to Guinea and
is monitoring the situation in the country “with concern”, AFP
said, citing Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Christine Fages.  Guinea has faced political instability since a group of
military officers took power in December 2008 after the death of
former President  Lansana Conte , who had ruled for 24 years.  The country’s $4.3 billion economy is forecast to grow 3
percent this year and 3.6 percent next year after contracting
0.3 percent in 2009, according to data on the  International
Monetary Fund ’s website. It ranks 156th out of 169 nations on the
United Nations’ 2010 Human Development Index, a measure of
living standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 