-- Michael Vick Uses Second Chance as Game-Changer: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-11-18T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/michael-vick-uses-second-act-as-game-changer-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Love him or loathe him, you have to
be impressed with Michael Vick. The man, that is, even more than
the quarterback. What he’s doing to secondaries is secondary to
what he’s doing for himself -- and hopefully others.  There’s an endless scroll of professional athletes who got
another chance and failed to take advantage. Whether arrogance,
entitlement or just plain-ol’ pigheadedness, too many return to
the spotlight unrepentant and unchanged.  Vick , however, isn’t the same person or player we knew.
He’s better. A better teammate, a better quarterback, a better
man -- one who isn’t ashamed of having cried himself to sleep
while locked behind bars. Go ahead, ask him. The big, macho
football player isn’t afraid or averse to talking about tears,
emptiness and fear.  Perhaps you saw Monday night’s performance against the
Washington Redskins, the one where Vick’s howitzer of a left arm
-- the one dubbed inaccurate and unreliable in the past -- threw
for 333 yards and four touchdowns. There was more. Oh, what a
display of fleet feet, which resulted in another 14 points. Vick
was better than great, improving the former No. 1 draft pick’s
Most Valuable Player chances to 5-1 from 25-1 a week ago and 50-
1 at the season’s outset.  Even more impressive was Vick’s post-game interview, in
which he stressed just how appreciative he was for a second
chance at getting paid for doing what he loves. Appreciation was
the theme.  Eighteen months removed from his release from federal
prison, Vick is aware the stain of his dog fighting conviction
is indelible. But the narrative isn’t over. He has the
credibility, fame and life experience to help others.  Life Sentences  Watching Vick zig while defenders zagged, watching a
 sublime athlete  make the most of his second chance, it was
impossible not to think of a conversation I had last year with
Everett Gillison, Philadelphia’s deputy mayor for public safety.  Even though folks offer lip service to second chances,
Gillison said, people want those who’ve made mistakes to pay in
perpetuity. Indelible stains, indeed.  Maybe Vick, through football, can get people to change
their minds, to make them rethink who deserves what and for how
long. Maybe Vick can help others, especially those not blessed
with the size and speed to cash a professional athlete’s
paycheck, to feel better about the possibilities.  There are many eyes on Vick, who is being hyped as a
potential National Football League MVP alongside the likes of
 Peyton Manning  of the Colts, his brother, Eli, of the Giants,
 Aaron Rodgers  of the Packers and  Tom Brady  of the Patriots. From
pariah to pedestal. It can be done.  Off the Bench  Few fans, if any, were expecting much last year when the
Eagles signed Vick, who, back then, was nothing more than a
backup’s backup. The Eagles took a flier. Now they’re flying
high. Vick is the starting quarterback on a Super Bowl
contender.  He won’t toss four touchdowns every game. He might even
throw an interception or two and the Eagles just might lose.  Most quarterbacks are judged solely by wins and losses.
Vick isn’t most quarterbacks. Amid all the winning (the Eagles
and New York Giants are tied atop the NFC East at 6-3 heading
into Sunday night’s matchup in Philadelphia) it’d be easy for
cocky to creep in and make a comeback. Not with Vick, who has
replaced hubris with humility.  Speaking of hubris, did you see that  LeBron James  of the
Miami Heat, the self-anointed King, is among the 25 nominees for
Time magazine’s  Person of the Year .  More Worthy  Do we really need to recognize yet another athlete with an
overinflated ego? James, who has been a fantastic basketball
player for years, did nothing in 2010 but take maddening self-
promotion and egomania to an absurdly new level.  The folks at  Time Warner Inc.  should swap out James for
Vick, whose tale of change, redemption and leadership-by-example
are more worthy of recognition.  “I could never envision this,” Vick said after the
Washington game.  Who could?  The first part of this story is about what Vick lost --
freedom, face, millions of dollars. The second part is about
what he gained: perspective.  “It’s fun watching u play homie!” James wrote in a
Twitter post to Vick. “Mike Vick for PRESIDENT,” blared
another.  Responded Vick: “I’m just having fun playing football
again.” Plain. Simple. Understated.  We know James is watching. Let’s just hope that he and
other athletes are listening and learning, too.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  