-- Illovo Seeks Acquisitions, Pipeline of Two to Three Candidates, CEO Says
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-18T11:36:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/illovo-seeks-acquisitions-pipeline-of-2-3-candidates-ceo-clark-says.html
Illovo Sugar Ltd. , Africa’s biggest
producer of the commodity, plans to expand through acquisitions
by keeping a pipeline of two or three possible projects, buying
plants to modernize and picking up assets sold by governments.  “What we like to do is a brown-field opportunity where we
acquire an existing business,” Managing Director  Graham Clark 
said in a phone interview in Johannesburg today. “There are a
lot of opportunities like that around the continent.”  Illovo, based in Mount Edgecombe, South Africa, is seeking
to expand its operations on the continent as the country’s worst
drought in two decades and a surging local currency threaten to
slash full-year profit by as much as 45 percent. The company’s
new Mali project will begin operating next year, it said today
in a statement, while it also operates in Malawi and Zambia.  Illovo produced almost 40 percent of its output from South
Africa in the year ended March 2010, with Zambia contributing 19
percent, Malawi 18 percent and Swaziland another 12 percent.  “We have a pipeline of probably two or three projects at
any one time that we look at and evaluate very closely,” Clark
said. “We certainly wouldn’t want to do too many. There are
also a lot of privatization programs going on where governments
are divesting of previously nationalized assets.”  The company expanded output at one Tanzanian plant from
less than 20,000 metric tons a year to 150,000 tons, he said.  Illovo, controlled by  Associated British Foods Plc , today
reported that net income in the six months through September
fell to 594 million rand ($85 million) from 647 million rand as
the drought slashed sales by 6.5 percent to 3.97 billion rand.  “Trading conditions have deteriorated across the group as
a consequence of the serious drought in KwaZulu-Natal in South
Africa,” it said in a statement. Sugar cane is grown along the
south eastern coastal belt of KwaZulu-Natal province.  The drought will reduce cane production on the south coast
next year, Illovo said. Sugar output from South Africa will drop
by about 15 percent to 90,000 tons this season, it said. Full-
year earnings per share are expected to be 30 percent to 40
percent lower, while headline earnings, a measure excluding one-
time items, may drop as much as 45 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  