-- Illovo Sugar of South Africa Says Full-Year Profit May Fall as Much as 40%
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-18T06:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/illovo-sugar-of-south-africa-says-full-year-profit-may-fall-as-much-as-40-.html
Illovo Sugar Ltd. , Africa’s biggest
producer of the sweetener, said full-year profit may fall as
much as 40 percent because of a drought in South Africa and a
stronger rand.  “Trading conditions have deteriorated across the group as a
consequence of the serious drought in KwaZulu-Natal in South
Africa,” the company said in a stock-exchange statement today.
“The weaker euro in the first half of the year impacted
negatively on downstream revenue” and export earnings from sales
to the European Union, it said.  Earnings per share are expected to be between 30 percent
and 40 percent lower, while headline earnings, a measure
excluding one-time items, may drop as much as 45 percent, the
company said.  Cane growers in South Africa are experiencing the worst
drought in two decades, the Cane Growers Association of South
Africa said on Aug. 18. Sugar cane is grown along the south
eastern coastal belt of the country’s KwaZulu-Natal province.  The drought will reduce cane production on the south coast
next year, Illovo said. Sugar output from the company’s South
African operations is expected to fall about 15 percent to
90,000 metric tons this season, it said.  “It has therefore been decided not to operate the Umzimkulu
factory in 2011-12 and to divert cane supplies to other group
factories in order for them to run nearer capacity,” it said.  Illovo said net income in the six months through September
fell to 594 million rand ($84.7 million) from 647 million rand a
year earlier. Sales dropped 6.5 percent to 3.97 billion rand.  ABF Overseas Ltd., a unit of  Associated British Foods Plc ,
owns 51 percent of Illovo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 