-- Time Warner Cable to Test Cheaper Cable Package to Lure Thrifty Customers
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-11-19T21:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/time-warner-cable-to-introduce-lower-priced-cable-package.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. , the second-
largest U.S. cable operator, is testing a slimmed-down cable
package that excludes  Walt Disney Co.’s  ESPN in an effort to win
back and retain economically strapped consumers.  The stripped-down service, known as “TV Essentials,” will
debut in New York City on Nov. 22 for $39.95 a month,  Maureen Huff , a Time Warner Cable spokeswoman, said in an interview
yesterday. The package will feature local and major broadcast
networks along with 12 of the 20 highest-rated cable networks,
including the Disney Channel and MTV. Fox News and Comedy
Central won’t be offered, she said.  Time Warner Cable lost 155,000 basic video subscribers last
quarter, primarily because of a weak economic environment, Chief
Financial Officer  Rob Marcus  said at an investor conference
yesterday. The company has been battling fee increases from
programmers, which are typically passed along to consumers in
the form of higher bills.  Marcus said the company realized its customers wanted
smaller, cheaper cable packages following the recent programming
feuds with  News Corp.’s  Fox and Walt Disney.  “What we’re planning to do is deliver on that customer
need,” said Marcus. “We’re planning on delivering a package,
or possibly more than one package, of programming that will
exclude some of the higher priced networks. Because we’re
excluding the high priced channels, we have the ability to
charge a lot less for it.”  Costly Channel  ESPN is the most costly channel, bringing in about $4.08
for each cable subscriber a month, according to research firm
 SNL Kagan . By comparison, Lifetime, which will be included in
the cheaper package, costs 28 cents a month per subscriber.  “The distribution requirement for ESPN has not changed in
the last 25 years, which is to include ESPN in the first or
second highest penetrated tier of service,” ESPN said in an e-
mailed statement. If “TV Essentials” catches on and becomes
one of Time Warner Cable’s most requested offerings, the cable
operator would include ESPN in the offering.  Time Warner Cable plans to analyze the results of its
trials and roll out “TV Essentials” in its other markets next
year, Huff said. The package doesn’t allow customers to use a
high-definition receiver or digital video recorder, and won’t be
bundled with Time Warner Cable’s other products such as
broadband and phone service.  By comparison, in Manhattan, Time Warner Cable’s expanded
digital starter package that includes 130 channels, costs about
$60 a month. The $39.99 price for “TV Essentials” in New York
is a 12-month promotional price, Huff said. The company plans to
offer the same trial in Northern Ohio in December for $29.99.
The pricing will vary in different locations, she said.  ‘Lower-End Customers’  “The ‘TV Essentials’ package is a critical step in
addressing the needs of lower-end video subscribers, and
represents an extraordinary compromise between content owners
and distributors,” said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. “In agreeing to support this
package at this price point, the media companies appear to be
acknowledging the importance of lower-priced offerings to
maintain relevance to lower-end customers.”  “TV Essentials” will offer  Viacom Inc.’s  Nickelodeon and
VH1 networks;  Scripps Networks Interactive Inc.’s  Cooking
Channel and HGTV;  Time Warner Inc.’s  CNN and TBS; News Corp.’s
FX channel; and NBC Universal Inc.’s Bravo, USA and a
selection of others.  Time Warner Cable fell 6 cents to $62.69 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
gained 51 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 