-- IMF Says Hong Kong's Asset Inflation May Spur Slump
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-18T05:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/imf-says-hong-kong-risks-deflationary-bust-urges-property-cooling-steps.html
The International Monetary Fund said
Hong Kong’s accelerating asset  inflation  risks causing a bust
that leads to deflation and an extended economic “downturn,”
and urged further measures to rein in property prices.  “Depending on the amplitude of the upswing, the resulting
downturn could prove both protracted and painful,” the IMF said
in a report today. The government should consider increasing
stamp duties on housing and taxes on owners of higher-end
properties if prices continue to rise, it said.  Hong Kong home prices have climbed about 50 percent since
the start of last year, surpassing a 1997 peak that was followed
by a six-year deflationary slump. Central bank head  Norman Chan 
has said the U.S. Federal Reserve’s expanded monetary stimulus
may spur inflows of cash to Hong Kong, where a currency peg to
the dollar prevents officials from raising interest rates to
cool demand.  “We are fully aware of the risks of an acceleration of the
credit-fueled asset cycle,” Chan, of the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority, said in a statement today. The central bank “will
introduce appropriate and timely prudential supervisory measures
to ensure banking stability,” he said.  Since April, the government has raised stamp duty on some
home sales, increased down-payment ratios, stopped offering
residency to foreigners who buy property in the city and
increased land auctions to boost supply.  Luxury Properties  Residential property prices will likely post a further 30
percent gain by the end of 2011, Credit Suisse Group AG said in
a report this month. Buyers from China are fueling demand for
luxury properties such as the homes in Sheung Shui, near the
Shenzhen border, that  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd.  has been
selling since October.  “The government is likely to further raise stamp duties as
suggested by the IMF,” but excess liquidity will limit the
effectiveness of such measures, said David Ng, a property
analyst at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. in Hong Kong.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks developers such
as Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. and Sun Hung Kai, has climbed 11
percent this year, outpacing the 7.6 percent gain in the Hang
Seng Index. Both the real-estate index and the overall benchmark
have fallen from a peak on Nov. 8.  “Positive economic news is translating to very high levels
of property price inflation,”  Nigel Chalk , the Washington-based
China mission chief at the IMF, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Higher Inflation  Higher rents will probably push up consumer price
inflation to about 5 percent by the end of 2011, the IMF said.
Rental costs caused that measure of prices to increase 2.6
percent in September.  Hong Kong should withdraw fiscal stimulus in the 2011
budget as the economy is “now back onto a robust growth
trajectory,” supported by China’s expansion and the global
recovery, the IMF said. The government allocated one-off
handouts, including salaries tax rebates and waivers of property
rates, of HK$20.4 billion ($2.6 billion) for the 12 months
ending March 31 next year.  The IMF today raised its growth forecast for Hong Kong to a
range of 5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2011 from last month’s
forecast of 4.7 percent. It expects the economy to expand 6.75
percent this year.  Hong Kong reported last week a more-than-estimated 6.8
percent  expansion  in the third quarter from a year earlier,
after a year-long contraction starting in late 2008.  The currency peg has served as a “robust anchor” to the
economy, the IMF said. Still, prices in goods and the labor
market could be driven down should there be “a move to a
tightening bias in the United States or a slowdown in China,”
it said.  Hong Kong’s economy would benefit from further developing
the offshore market in yuan trade and financial investments, the
fund said. Chinese regulators have loosened restrictions on the
yuan’s use in international trade since the start of 2009 and
agreed to foreign companies issuing yuan-denominated bonds
through Hong Kong in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  