-- Infigen in Talks to Invest Up to $492 Million a Year Building Wind Farms
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-18T05:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/infigen-in-talks-to-invest-up-to-492-million-a-year-building-wind-farms.html
Infigen Energy  is in talks with
potential partners to help fund Australian wind power projects
that may cost as much as A$500 million ($492 million) a year to
build, Managing Director  Miles George  said.  Infigen targets adding as much as 200 megawatts of wind
power generation each year, George said in an interview in
Sydney today after an annual shareholders’ meeting. Construction
of the Australian projects depends on funding and whether the
company determines they can be developed profitably.  “It’s governed by the availability of capital and
secondly, being able to achieve our strict internal rate of
return requirements,” he said. Infigen will rely on debt, A$174
million of cash and partners such as institutional investors.  Infigen  has fallen 54 percent this year, compared with a
4.7 percent drop for the  S&P/ASX 200 Index . The company “faced
a challenging environment” in 2010, hurt by poor wind
conditions, declining prices for renewable energy certificates
and a surging Australian dollar, George said in a statement
earlier today.  The stock slumped 12 percent to 64 Australian cents by the
4:10 p.m. close in Sydney today. The benchmark index rose 0.3
percent.  The Sydney-based company has 48 megawatts of wind energy
projects under construction, moving toward a 160-megawatt goal
for the year ending June 2011, George said. Infigen would seek
to operate the projects and keep 50 percent ownership, he said,
declining to identify potential partners.  Solar Flagships  Australia has set a target of generating 20 percent of its
power from renewable energy sources by 2020. Prime Minister
Julia Gillard established a committee in September to study
options for introducing a price on carbon emissions in
Australia, where coal accounts for more than 80 percent of
electricity production.  Infigen and Chinese solar-panel maker  Suntech Power
Holdings Co.  propose building solar energy farms in Australia’s
New South Wales state and are vying for funding from the
government’s A$1.5 billion Solar Flagships program. The venture
is one of four solar photovoltaic ventures selected by the
government for final consideration.  “Solar PV is significantly more expensive than wind
energy, but the cost is coming down each year,” George said.
“At the moment, it’s not competitive with wind energy so it
needs an additional incentive. The project economics
substantially improve with federal and state grant funding.”  Infigen said today it expects to retire about A$100 million
of debt over the next two financial years, compared with its
prior target of A$200 million. The company’s Woodlawn wind farm
is on schedule to be completed in the second half of 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 