-- Manchester City Plans to Trade Adebayor, Given, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-11-19T08:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/inter-milan-seeks-cut-price-deal-for-everton-s-steven-pienaar-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  City Clearout  Manchester City is preparing to sell five players including
strikers  Emmanuel Adebayor ,  Roque Santa Cruz  and Jo for 50
million pounds ($80 million) less than they cost,  the Sun said .  The quintet also includes midfielder  Shaun Wright-Phillips 
and defender  Wayne Bridge , the newspaper said.  Goalkeeper  Shay Given  may be sold for 7 million pounds,
which is what he cost the club, the Sun said. The group aren’t
playing in matches and coach  Roberto Mancini  believes some are
unsettling the squad, the newspaper said.  Schmeichel’s Thoughts  Manchester United’s former goalkeeper  Peter Schmeichel  said
Anders Lindegaard, the Danish national team member the club has
signed, isn’t good enough,  the Guardian said .  The signing of the 26-year-old is an error by manager  Alex Ferguson , who should be targeting Liverpool’s Jose Reina,
Schmeichel said, according to the newspaper.  Gerrard Compensation  Liverpool may ask for 500,000 pounds in compensation from
England’s Football Association after  Steven Gerrard  injured his
hamstring with the national team, putting him out of action for
as much as a month,  the Sun said .  The midfielder was forced off the field in this week’s 2-1
loss to France at Wembley stadium. England coach  Fabio Capello ,
who had agreed Gerrard would only play for an hour, feels he
doesn’t need to apologize, the newspaper said.  Tottenham Target  Fulham winger Keanu Marsh-Brown is being targeted by
Tottenham and Manchester City,  the Daily Mail said .  The 18-year-old may bring a bid of 500,000 pounds in
January, the newspaper said. He’s a member of England’s Under-17
squad and played in Fulham’s Europa League team last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  