-- Lippmann, Who Bet Against Subprime at Deutsche Bank, Turns Buyer at Fund
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2010-11-18T20:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/lippmann-who-bet-against-subprime-at-deutsche-bank-turns-buyer-at-fund.html
Greg Lippmann , the former Deutsche
Bank AG trader who gained fame for his bets against subprime-
mortgage securities, focused his hedge fund’s buying on the  debt 
in its first month.  LibreMax Capital LLC’s fund gained about 1.67 percent in
October as it invested 44.4 percent of its portfolio in bonds
backed by subprime home loans to borrowers with the worst
credit, according to a letter to investors obtained by Bloomberg
News. Hedge funds returned 1.5 percent on average last month,
Bloomberg data show.  Lippmann, 41, started the New York-based firm with  Fred Brettschneider , the former head of global markets in the
Americas at Deutsche Bank, after they departed the German lender
this year. Lippmann’s team made almost $2 billion for the bank
in 2007 wagering against subprime debt through credit-default
swaps as homeowner delinquencies soared, according to “The
Greatest Trade Ever” (Broadway Books, 2009) by  Greg Zuckerman .  “Returns were driven by the rally in the overall mortgage
market as well as strong trading gains during the month,” the
firm said in the letter.  John Curran, director of marketing at LibreMax, declined to
comment. Lippmann is the firm’s chief investment officer.  LibreMax Partners LP bought 82 securities and sold 9 last
month, according to the letter. “Our investment team had an
active first month,” the firm said.  Foreclosure Issues  The fund found “attractive investment opportunities” in
junior-ranked slices of older subprime securitizations, as well
as junior pieces of repackaged prime-loan securities and
mortgage bonds whose principal will never be repaid, according
to the letter.  In addition to subprime debt, the firm also has 13.9
percent of the fund’s portfolio in other  home-loan securities 
that lack government-backed guarantees, according to the letter.  LibreMax is dismissing concern that foreclosure issues,
created by loan servicers acknowledging in September that they
used false affidavits in court cases, will harm bondholders by
increasing how long it takes to liquidate soured debt.  Investors in residential mortgage-backed securities, or
RMBS, shouldn’t adjust what they pay, the firm said.  “While the press about foreclosure risks has been
prevalent, the RMBS market has largely shrugged off these
headlines,” the firm said. “We agree with this sentiment and
believe that current prices, broadly speaking, have already
factored in the possibility of extended foreclosure timelines.”  Falcone, Paulson  Lippmann was among the Wall Street traders who helped
create the standardized default-swap contracts that made it
easier for hedge funds including  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co.,
 Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital Partners and Hayman Advisors
LP to bet against housing.  In 2006 and 2007, Lippmann encouraged money managers to
make the wagers and handled their trades, according to
Zuckerman’s book and  Michael Lewis ’s “The Big Short”
(Norton/Allen Lane), in which he was also featured. Paulson and
Hayman, run by  Kyle Bass , are among investors who later began
buying mortgage bonds at beaten-down prices.  A  Markit ABX  index of credit-default swaps tied to 20
subprime-loan bonds rated AAA when created in the second half of
2006 has climbed almost 33 percent this year, according to
administrator Markit Group Ltd. An increase generally indicates
less pessimism about the value of subprime debt.  Index Levels  The index’s  levels  are typically similar to the prices
being paid for the underlying securities in cents on the dollar.
The index rose to 56.13 yesterday after falling as low as 28.46
in April 2009. It lost about 1 percent last month after rising
to almost 60, the highest since October 2008, during the period.  Prices for the most-senior securities backed by fixed-rate
so-called Alt-A mortgages gained 1 cent on the dollar last month
to about 79 cents, according to Barclays Capital data. The debt,
tied to loans to borrowers who often failed to document their
incomes or didn’t plan to live in properties, advanced another
cent last week, after ending last year at about 72 cents.
Holders also receive interest payments.  Seer Capital Management LP, the hedge fund led by  Philip Weingord , is also buying subprime-mortgage securities, Weingord
said in a Sept 30 interview. He oversaw Lippmann at Deutsche
Bank while the trader made the bets against subprime. Weingord
left Deutsche Bank in 2008 and was replaced by Brettschneider.  LibreMax Partners last month also bought “highly
seasoned” securities tied to manufactured-housing loans, as the
debt category made up 20.7 percent of investments, according to
the letter. It also bought bonds backed by private-student
loans; subprime credit-card accounts; and high-yield, high-risk
corporate loans, known as collateralized loan obligations.  The fund lost money last month on hedges involving high-
yield  corporate debt , according to the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;
 Saijel Kishan  in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  