-- Liquidnet Dark-Pool Trading Value in Asia-Pacific Surpasses Level of 2009
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-11-18T05:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/liquidnet-dark-pool-trading-value-in-asia-pacific-surpasses-level-of-2009.html
Liquidnet Holdings Inc. said the
value of stock traded in the first 10 months of this year on its
six platforms in the Asia-Pacific region exceeded the level for
all of 2009 as investors sought alternatives to major exchanges.  More than $11.3 billion in shares were bought and sold from
January to October on the New York-based company’s so-called
dark pools in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand,
Singapore and South Korea, surpassing the 2009 total of $10.2
billion. That’s less than 0.2 percent of about $7.5 trillion
traded on the main stock exchanges in those markets in that
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have seen more conviction in the market from the buy
side, which has helped drive our volumes in Asia-Pacific,” said
 Lee Porter , managing director of Liquidnet’s business in the
region, said in an interview. “In particular, our U.S. clients
have come off the sidelines and back into play.”  Dark pools are off-exchange trading platforms that don’t
display quotes publicly with the aim of minimizing price
fluctuations and lowering costs.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG started its own dark pool
in Hong Kong in August as demand for such services grew, and New
York-based Citigroup Inc. said the same month that it will start
a similar system in Singapore next year after trading in its
Australian platform increased to a record in June.  Liquidnet began service in Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and
South Korea in November 2007 and offers its services to more
than 600 firms globally. Porter, who is based in Hong Kong, said
he plans to expand to other markets in Southeast Asia to further
boost trading volumes.  He spoke in an interview last week in Singapore, and his
press office confirmed his comments today.  The company now has 190 members in its six Asia-Pacific
markets, compared with 137 in 2008, Porter said. The average
size of each transaction handled by Liquidnet in the region was
about $1.6 million as of the end of October, compared with $1
million in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 