-- Iran's `Serious Ongoing' Rights Abuses Including Stoning Censured at UN
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-11-18T22:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/iran-s-serious-ongoing-rights-abuses-including-stoning-censured-at-un.html
Iran’s government was criticized at
the  United Nations  today for committing “serious ongoing and
recurring human rights violations,” including torture and
stoning as a means of execution.  The General Assembly’s human rights committee, which
includes all UN member governments, voted 80-45 to adopt a U.S.-
sponsored resolution expressing “deep concern” about violence
against women, restrictions on freedom of assembly and
expression, and persecution of religious minorities, political
opponents, lawyers and journalists.  Mohammad-Javad Larijani, senior adviser to the Iranian
judiciary, called the resolution a “malicious threat” to Iran
that would “inflict serious damage to the credibility” of the
UN. He said the U.S. was the “mastermind” behind the text and
was “deeply and extensively involved” in the mass
demonstrations following the June 2009 elections in Iran.  Demonstrations following the announcement of the re-
election of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , which opponents said
was fraudulent, became one of the biggest political challenges
to Iran’s establishment since the country’s 1979 Islamic
revolution. The government says 44 people died in the unrest,
while Amnesty International said the number was double that.  Iran has started the trial of a leading human rights lawyer
behind closed doors, a sign it is intensifying a crackdown on
the legal representatives of activists, journalists and
opposition politicians, the Washington Post reported on Nov. 16,
citing unidentified lawyers. The trial of Nasrin Sotoudeh, 47,
on charges of endangering national security follows the Nov. 13
arrest of five other Iranian lawyers, the Post reported.  Myanmar Opposition  The UN human rights committee also adopted resolutions
critical of human rights violations in Myanmar and North Korea.
The text of the Myanmar resolution also welcomed the release by
the government this week of opposition leader  Aung San Suu Kyi 
from seven years of house arrest.  Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  spoke on the telephone with
Suu Kyi today to “express his admiration” for her “courage
and dignity” during the detention, a statement from the UN
said. Ban and Suu Kyi during the conversation “stressed the
need for the Myanmar authorities to release all remaining
political prisoners as a matter of priority so that all citizens
of Myanmar are free to contribute to advancing the prospects of
national reconciliation and democratic transition,” the
statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  