-- Ireland May Be Next Greece as Europe's Economic Superstar Fades
-- B y   S u z y   H a n s e n
-- 2010-11-18T08:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/ireland-risks-becoming-another-greece-as-europe-s-economic-superstar-fades.html
On a Sunday morning in October,
Simon Kelly sat in the breakfast room of Dublin’s Morrison Hotel,
looking eager to chat. Simon, 38, and his father, Paddy Kelly,
66, were once among Ireland’s most audacious real estate
developers. During the boom years, they borrowed about
700 million euros ($950 million) from  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  to
buy golf resorts and build hotels.  Today, the Kellys are 800 million euros in debt, Anglo
Irish has been nationalized, and the Kellys’ former assets
litter the streets of Dublin, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its Nov. 22 edition. Discussing the Morrison, Simon says
casually, “Oh, I own part of the hotel. Well, not anymore. Now,
NAMA owns it.”  The National Asset Management Agency, or Ireland’s “bad
bank,” was created by the government in 2009 to help stanch a
crisis within the Irish banking system that has pushed the
country to the edge of insolvency. Ireland’s finance minister
appointed NAMA’s board -- a former bank manager, two accountants,
and former government officials -- which now controls the loans
for hundreds of hotels, offices and resorts. It remains to be
seen whether NAMA will take over the rest of developers’
personal assets.  “Where NAMA is unable to work with debtors,” either by
virtue of their refusal to cooperate or the hopelessness of
their financial position, “then NAMA will pursue all avenues to
recover what they can for the taxpayer,” says spokesman Ray
Gordon.  Building Bailout  NAMA, excluded from Freedom of Information laws, is famous
for its opacity. Its actions have not stopped the momentum of
the crisis. The Irish spent the past week bracing for the
arrival of European Union and International Monetary Fund
officials to negotiate a possible emergency bailout of the Irish
economy. While Ireland hasn’t yet asked for assistance, in an
interconnected euro zone, its neighbors may not allow it the
luxury of resisting.  “Ireland is our closest neighbor, and it’s in Britain’s
national interest that the Irish economy is successful and we
have a stable banking system,” says  George Osborne , the U.K.
chancellor. “So Britain stands ready to support Ireland in the
steps that it needs to take to bring about that stability.”  Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  has pledged to work
with the EU and IMF while asserting his country’s stability.
“Our budgetary policy has full confidence among European
partners,” Lenihan told reporters on Nov. 17. “But in relation
to banking, steps taken to date require further support. What
may be required may not be in fact an actual transfer of money
now but a demonstration of how much money can be made available
if further difficulties materialize.”  Government Funding  The Irish underestimated the severity of the losses for the
past two years. In September, the government said that the bank
bailout may cost as much as 50 billion euros. NAMA says it will
absorb an estimated 73 billion euros of loans from the banks at
a discount of about half of their value.  The figures sound small relative to the U.S. rescue of its
banking system, except that Ireland’s population hovers at 4.4
million, according to the World Bank; the bailout so far equals
30 percent of the country’s 158 billion-euro gross domestic
product. EU officials say Ireland’s emergency aid package may
tally $136 billion, roughly the same amount given to Greece in
May.  While the U.S. economy was driven off a cliff by the
reckless securitizing of subprime mortgages and Greece collapsed
under the burden of misrepresented government spending, the
Irish traveled a simpler road to ruin: by taking out enormous,
unregulated loans. Ireland’s economy has contracted for three
consecutive years, and the Irish Central Bank governor has
declared his country’s fiscal deterioration “worse than almost
any other country.”  Rising Yields  The yield on 10-year Irish bonds climbed to almost
9 percent in mid-November, compared with 11 percent for Greece.  There were hardly any critics of the Celtic Tiger from 1995
to 2007, when  GDP  growth averaged 5 percent to 10 percent and
pushed Ireland into the ranks of the world’s leading economies.  Now seemingly everyone in Ireland recalls a symbolic moment
when they realized things had gone too far. For David Byrne, a
repossessed-car auctioneer, it was the sight of his fellow
countrymen swilling expensive wine. For Simon Ensor, a real
estate agent, it was the day the owners of a 1,000-square-foot
Dublin carriage house insisted on selling it for 2.5 million
euros, as opposed to the agent’s suggested 2 million euros ---
and then the house went for 3 million euros at auction. For many,
it was the day the Savoy Hotel in London was bought by Irish
property developer  Derek Quinlan .  After the Fall  Today, according to former Central Bank of Ireland
economist David McWilliams, the average Irish family owes
132,000 euros to banks. Ireland’s Economic and Social Research
Institute estimates that housing prices have fallen 36 percent
from their peak in 2006.  Unemployment  has increased to 14
percent from 4 percent during the boom years.  Many Irish people won’t be able to pay off their debts in
their lifetime, and almost all commercial developers are broke.
The nation once described by New York Times columnist  Thomas L. Friedman  as the second richest in Europe has become the country
with the region’s largest deficit.  More poignantly, a people who fought against the British
Empire for their sovereignty may lose control of their financial
future.  Brian Lucey , an economist at Trinity College Dublin,
says the government miscalculated the size of the crisis.  “The banks destabilized the sovereign and the sovereign
has destabilized the euro zone,” Lucey says. “The banks are
totally dependent on the European Central Bank for existence.”
Of a potential bailout, he adds: “We won’t have much of a
choice.”  Wasteland Tour  Inside an old black Land Rover bursting with pens and
wrappers and trash, Simon Kelly conducts a wasteland tour of the
Dublin boom years. “We built this thing ourselves,” Kelly says
as he passes glittering glass buildings. “We were trading with
ourselves. And everything was being funded by the Germans
through the European Central Bank. So nothing’s really changed,
if you think about it. We’re still being funded by the Germans
through the European Central Bank.”  According to the Irish Property Council, as many as 29
Irishmen involved in real estate --- from property barons to
construction workers --- have committed suicide. The Kellys have
steeled themselves against the pain caused by the financial
collapse in a uniquely Kelly way: by leaning into it.  Paddy was the first of the go-go developers to say in court,
in 2009, that “my liabilities exceed my assets.” On Oct. 28,
Simon published a book about his misadventures in finance called
“Breakfast with Anglo.”  ‘Gone Bonkers’  Simon spends much of his time helping NAMA manage his
properties, now estimated to be worth 700 million euros, down
from a high of 2.8 billion euros, and flying to England every
four months for a business course on corporate responsibility
and sustainability. He hopes someday to create a company that
produces something other than glass and steel.  “Half of the developers have gone bonkers, half left the
country,” Kelly says. “Most of the men are 65 years old, so
they don’t need a new life. I’m 38 years old and have five kids.  “My wife thought we were all nuts,” he adds. “She was
from a farming family. ‘Why do you want all this money?’ she
would ask.”  Two neighborhoods on Kelly’s tour best represent the bubble
that overwhelmed Ireland. The Docklands, a stretch along both
sides of the River Liffey that was once the dodgiest part of
town, now has gleaming office buildings, apartment complexes,
theaters and convention centers. It’s also where the empty shell
of Anglo Irish’s new headquarters sits and inoperative cranes
loom like morbid giraffes.  Futuristic Project  At night, the lit-up glass offices, the Samuel Beckett
Bridge designed by  Santiago Calatrava , and the neon rings of
Convention Centre Dublin all look like a futuristic project from
an architect’s computerized modeling system.  Ballsbridge is the home of Shrewsbury Road, the poshest
street in Dublin, where 6,000-square-foot homes once sold for
55 million euros. The neighborhood also yielded one of the
crash’s few success stories: the sale of Jurys hotel in 2005, a
bonanza for the property’s owner, hotelier John Gallagher.  The site consisted of about five acres, and developers were
said to be considering bidding 60 million euros to 70 million
euros an acre, the same price that Chelsea Barracks, the
desirable real estate in west London, was going for at the time.
Few seemed to notice that while the bidders for Chelsea Barracks
included a Qatari real estate investment firm and an American
private equity fund, the bidders for Irish properties were
almost always Irish.  Bidding War  Driving past Jurys, a five-story brick behemoth rising over
leafy streets, Kelly talks about the bidding war with nostalgia.
“It was as if the person who bid the highest was a genius,” he
says. The Kellys offered 273 million euros, but Jurys, along
with an adjacent site, sold to a developer named  Sean Dunne  for
380 million euros. Gallagher, meanwhile, sold much of his hotel
chain and escaped the crash with a 1.1 billion-euro profit.  Kelly calls the episode “my awakening moment.” “I would
look at the Americans, look at Apple and Microsoft, and think
they’re brilliant, because they produce all this stuff,” he
says. “We buy buildings. We buy products in Germany and turn
them into buildings.”  The Irish were long dispossessed of land by an Anglo
Protestant ruling class. Simon Kelly’s great-great grandfather
went to prison in 1882 for promoting land reform during a period
known as the Land War.  Common Wisdom  Simon’s grandfather was a builder and refurbished elite
Georgian houses. For the Kellys, the ultimate goal in life was
to become landlords; the notion that one would never go hungry
if one owned land was common wisdom for a generation.  Paddy and his seven brothers did well building houses in
the 1960s and 1970s. Then he went bust for the first time during
the 1970s oil crisis, and like many Irish builders, Paddy moved
to England during Ireland’s recession in the 1980s, where he
enjoyed an affluent life in Mayfair. By this time, Simon, the
oldest of four children, demonstrated a knack with spreadsheets
and was involved in the business. When the economy collapsed in
the late 1980s, Paddy went broke again and came home.  This time, a new opportunity awaited him. In the late 1980s
and early 1990s, U.S. corporations such as Intel, Microsoft and
Dell arrived in Ireland to take advantage of the nation’s
educated, English-speaking workforce and 12.5 percent corporate
tax rate. (Multinationals account for about a fifth of Ireland’s
GDP.)  ‘Honest Endeavor’  Foreign companies required buildings and helped start the
boom that got the Kellys back on their feet. Simon calls the
early 1990s their “honest endeavor phase” as more and more
builders -- men who didn’t go to school, calculated sums on the
backs of envelopes and adopted the American term “developers”
-- became rich. Soon they would also become national heroes.  The other beast born in the late 1980s was  Sean FitzPatrick ’s Anglo Irish, which, being a smaller bank amid old
standbys like  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and Bank of Ireland Plc,
needed to distinguish itself. Anglo Irish began to aggressively
offer loans for property development.  “We’d have a lovely breakfast at 7 in the morning at the
Shelbourne, and I’d say to my lender, ‘I need some money,’ and
he’d give me 10 million quid,” Simon recalls. “I could have
gamed the whole system if I wanted. There was no amount of money
I wouldn’t have been lent.”  Deals and Speculation  Simon’s memoir details endless deals and speculations with
acres bought, developed or flipped. The Kellys couldn’t keep
track of them all: a ski resort in Italy, a hotel in Malta, the
waterfront in Sarasota, Florida. “In the end, I found it
vulgar,” he says. “It became like Wall Street.”  The actual boom ended in 2001, when productivity growth
fell to 5 percent. After that, the Fianna Fáil government, which
has led Ireland throughout the boom and bust, maintained growth
by keeping credit flowing easily to keep up property prices.  “After 2001, we went into this credit-fueled boom,” says
Lucey of Trinity College. “Although people conflate the booms,
one was based on exports and competitiveness, and the other was
a decision to keep that going by pouring credit into the markets
and not regulating the financial-services industry.”  Soon, everyone joined the party. Newspapers published real
estate sections 50 pages thick, developers began to travel by
helicopter, and men traveled to Antwerp for bachelor parties.
Ireland’s GDP, which had been $25 billion in the 1980s, soared
to $267 billion in 2008.  Like Cupcakes  Even more meaningfully, a country that had seen large
numbers leave for America, Australia and England now had close
to zero unemployment. The Irish now speak of those years with
self-deprecating affection. “Getting a mortgage was really like
queuing up for cupcakes,” says Byrne, the car auctioneer.
“Ordinary people were telling their neighbor they’re buying a
three-bedroom with a private pool in Spain! Ordinary people!”  The Irish banks that made all those second houses possible
weren’t investment banks or hedge funds. They were traditional
banks, which found themselves suddenly flooded with cheap credit.
“There was a lot of money sloshing around,” says Lucey. “Plus,
there were historically low interest rates in the euro zone.”  FitzPatrick was an early adopter, aggressively loosening
loan restrictions at Anglo Irish. Other banks implemented the
same strategy to keep up. Financier Niall McFadden told the
Sunday Business Post that one bank accepted a personal guarantee
for a 6.3 million-euro loan without ever bothering to meet with
him.  “They did it because they could, because the regulator was
nonexistent and the government was perfectly happy to engage in
bubble financing of the public sector,” says Lucey. “When the
bubbles went away, the whole thing fell apart.”  Lehman Bankruptcy  The 2008 collapse of New York-based Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. accelerated Ireland’s slide, as property prices
continued a drop that started in 2007. “As a small, open
economy, Ireland was always going to be vulnerable to global
swings,” says  Ray Kinsella , an economist at University College
Dublin. “But this is predominantly a self-inflicted crisis.”  On Sept. 29, 2008, with shares of financial companies
plummeting, the government declared it would guarantee the debts
of the banks. Regulators, who had done little for the past
decade, didn’t realize the extent of those debts, and bankers
didn’t help illuminate the scale of the crisis.  ‘Thank You’  A few days after the guarantee, FitzPatrick said during a
radio interview that everything was fine: “The cause of our
problems was global, so I can’t say sorry with any degree of
sincerity and decency, but I do say thank you,” he said.  On Oct. 6, something unusual happened to Eugene McErlean:
The Central Bank of Ireland’s new financial regulator,  Matthew Elderfield , apologized to him.  McErlean, 52, had worked for five years as an auditor for
Allied Irish Bank. In 2002, he prepared a report for the
nation’s then financial regulator making a case that his
employer had overcharged on hourly rates for the amount of time
that bank managers spent with customers. (The range of
overcharges tallied about 88 million euros.) The Central Bank
decided against launching an investigation, and a year later,
McErlean was removed from his job.  “The banks believed their own publicity, that Irish banks
were the best in the world,” he says over coffee in the lounge
at Buswells Hotel. “I had worked other places. And my job as
auditor was to give an independent opinion.”  Elderfield apologized last month for the McErlean case.
“Some of the matters could have been handled better by the
public authorities involved, and as a result of that I am sorry
for any unintentional distress caused to Mr. McErlean,” he said
before a committee in Parliament.  Wall Street  Irish banks operated in a culture of deference and
uniformity, and, due to the sharp increase in business and the
arrival of a Wall Street culture of performance-based pay,
bankers went from making 150,000 euros a year to millions.  As Simon Kelly describes it, bankers also stopped paying
attention to their loans. Ireland had 10 to 15 major property
developers who could drive the market, and everyone wanted to
loan money to them.  McErlean says the regulator at the Central Bank, who got
reports on this activity at least once a quarter, didn’t pay
close attention. “If normal checks and balances had been in
place, none of this would have happened,” he says.  The Irish still don’t really know what went on inside their
banks.  Shane Ross , a senator and author of two best-selling
financial books, says criminal activity wasn’t the cause of the
crash. “It was a simple circle of being interdependent on each
other,” he says, referring to the politicians, developers,
regulators, and bankers. “The country would have gone bankrupt
without spectaculars like Sean FitzPatrick.”  Dr. Doom  Few whistleblowers or truth-tellers have emerged as heroes
in Ireland. David McWilliams and an economist named  Morgan Kelly ,
Ireland’s Dr. Doom, were mocked during the bubble years when
they predicted a reversal in the country’s fortunes.  Bertie Ahern , Ireland’s Prime Minister from 1997 to 2008,
famously dismissed the naysayers at a trade union conference in
2007: “Sitting on the sidelines cribbing and moaning is a lost
opportunity. I don’t know how people who engage in that don’t
commit suicide.”  Now the very idea of Ireland seems at stake. “This is now
about sovereignty,” says Diarmaid Ferriter, an historian and
author of “The Transformation of Ireland.” “Can we actually
survive? Have we lost control? We’re very proud of our
independence.”  He continued: “This was a country that fought a Land War
and got rid of an English class of landlords, and that was
replaced by an Irish class of landowners, speculators, and
bankers even more invidious. That’s a terrible tragedy.”  High Court  The grand front entrance of Four Courts, an 18th century
building that houses the High Court of Dublin, recently reopened
to the public. Inside, the mood is grim. On a busy morning in
the bankruptcy and home repossessions courts, the judge,  Brian McGovern , sat on a bench in a small, wood-paneled courtroom.  Six globe lights hung from the ceiling; carafes of water
were placed on the tables and benches. The room soon filled with
lawyers in black capes; debtors in jeans hid in the back row.  The bankruptcy session ran long. “I’m sorry,” the judge
said to lawyers waiting for the foreclosures portion of the
morning. “The bankruptcy list unfortunately has grown in
size.” There were some 50 cases that day.  Then it was time to deal with home repossessions. In 2007
there were fewer than 10 cases heard in a week; now there are 90.
According to the Independent Mortgage Advisers Federation, there
are 700,000 active mortgages in Ireland; industry trackers like
Morgan Kelly estimate that 100,000 are under water, and one in
20 is at least three months in arrears.  Civil War  In court, most lawyers requested that their clients’ cases
be deferred for six months, and the judge showed a bias toward
granting debtors some breathing room. “There’d be a civil war
in Ireland if legislators let financial institutions repossess
people’s homes,” says Byrne, the repossessed-car auctioneer.  Because of its history with landownership, when it comes to
houses, Ireland maintains a relatively generous forbearance
policy, although in 2009, repossession orders were up 27 percent
from the year before.  The tradition of leniency made the two couples who stood
before McGovern volunteering to relinquish their homes that much
more surprising. The judge inquired about their finances, their
employment and their children, and then almost pleaded with the
couple to hold off, to try and get their funds together.  “We’re ready to move on,” one woman said, her voice
breaking. “It’s dragging us down.”  Social Conflict  In a Nov. 8 column in the Irish Times, Morgan Kelly wrote:
“If one family defaults on its mortgage, they are pariahs: if
200,000 default they are a powerful political constituency. The
gathering mortgage crisis puts Ireland on the cusp of a social
conflict on the scale of the Land War.”  One of Paddy and Simon Kelly’s biggest projects was
transforming Carton House, a castle-like estate that once
belonged to lords of Ireland, into a hotel and residential
development. While Carton House is now 72 million euros in debt
and partially owned by NAMA, Paddy enjoys playing on its golf
course.  It’s unclear whether NAMA will initiate bankruptcy
proceedings against developers. For that reason, and because
Ireland’s bankruptcy laws are harsh, many developers have
skipped town. Paddy and Simon haven’t, though Simon admits to
being more nervous these days about the prospect of bankruptcy.
In the meantime, they expect to receive civil servant salaries
to help NAMA manage their businesses.  Celtic Tiger  Paddy, white-haired and pink-faced, sits in the golf
clubhouse dressed in a yellow sweater over a pink button-down
shirt. Talking about the Celtic Tiger years, his eyes light up
like an aging rock star remembering the 1960s. He says they
“were magic.”  Asked if at any point he had become depressed by the crash,
he screws up his face and says, “Are you joking?”  “When I was younger, I was the best marble player, and
then I hurled them all away,” he says. “Someone asked me why?
They had no value. The fun was in the game.’”  Paddy, who last went bust in 1987, knows that tomorrow
isn’t a total a mystery. “Learn to protect yourself, and have
safety nets,” he says. “Three years ago I came back from the
United States, and I said, ‘Everything in America has shut down.
When America gets a cold, we get the flu; let’s tidy up, see if
we’re O.K.” He says he knew what was going to happen 18 months
before he went under. “We’re comfortable,” he says.  Tons of Cement  Then he tells another story: “When we were building houses
with my father and there’d be 20 tons of cement delivered,
Daddy’d always take a bag and hide it. When we’d go to finish
the job, we’d say, ‘Daddy, we run out.’ And he’d come with the
bag. He taught us all: You have to have savings. You have to
have hidden strength and hidden assets. And overall, your first
duty is as a family.”  Should the developers feel responsible for what happened to
their country?  “No question,” says Paddy. “But I think the blame game
essentially doesn’t work. If you take the last few years, we
haven’t borrowed any money. Why didn’t we borrow money? Because
it was not available. It starts with the minister of finance,
but he didn’t know what was going on. And the regulator didn’t
know what was going on. And the European bankers didn’t know
what was going on. They kept pushing money into Ireland.”  While Paddy Kelly is talking about new projects, Simon is
less enthusiastic. “I’m an example of corporate excess,” he
says. When Simon’s small son climbs into the car at the end of
the Celtic Tiger Graveyard tour, Simon looks at him and says he
can’t help hoping he finds a future far away from the
developers’ trade: “I hope he goes to Harvard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzy Hansen at  hansen.Suzy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sheelah Kolhatkar at   skolhatkar@bloomberg.net  