-- Irish Bailout May Unleash Bond Vigilantes on Portugal Market: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2010-11-19T13:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/irish-bailout-may-unleash-bond-vigilantes-on-portugal-market-euro-credit.html
A resolution of the Irish debt
crisis may shift the burden of speculation to Portugal.  While officials such as European Central Bank Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  predict a bailout of Ireland will
reduce financial pressures in the euro region, analysts from
Citigroup Inc. and Nomura International Plc say any relief would
be short-lived as investors turn their focus to the next-weakest
peripheral nation.  The markets indicate that country is  Portugal  with 10-year
bond yields of 6.88 percent, compared with 8.26 percent in
Ireland and 11.62 percent in Greece, which received rescue funds
in May from the European Union and International Monetary Fund.
Portuguese Finance Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  said
Nov. 15 that while “there is a risk of contagion,” that
doesn’t mean the country will seek financial aid.  “Portugal isn’t in the situation that it is now because of
Ireland,” said  Steven Mansell , director of interest-rate
strategy at Citigroup Global Markets Ltd. in London. “If
Ireland reaches an agreement to tap the European Financial
Stability Facility or some other mechanism to support its
banking sector, I don’t think that will alleviate the pressure
on Portugal.”  The government has forecast that economic growth in
Portugal will slow to 0.2 percent in 2011 from an estimated 1.3
percent this year. Portugal has made less progress at taming its
deficit than some of the other peripheral nations. In the first
nine months, the central government’s deficit rose 2.3 percent
from a year earlier. That compared with a decline of more than
40 percent in Spain and more than 30 percent in Greece.  Record Yields  While Portugal has no plans to sell more bonds this year,
so-called market vigilantes drove up yields on its debt during
the past month amid doubts about the country’s efforts to reduce
the budget deficit. The 10-year yield reached a euro-era record
of 7.25 percent on Nov. 11, 484 basis points  higher  than
benchmark German bunds of similar maturity.  Portuguese 10-year yields are little changed this week,
while Irish yields fell 10 basis points. The spread between the
10-year Portuguese bonds and German bunds rose 6 basis points
today to 410.  Investors who push up yields to alter government policy are
known as vigilantes, a term coined in 1984 by economist  Edward Yardeni , president of Yardeni Investments Inc. in New York. They
were credited with forcing  Bill Clinton  to cut the U.S. deficit
after he came into office in 1993, helping drive 10-year
Treasury yields down to about 4 percent by November 1998 from
above 8 percent in 1994.  While Irish and Portuguese bonds probably would rise with a
bailout agreement for Ireland, any gains wouldn’t change the
underlying problems for peripheral Europe, according to  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds TSB Corporate Bank.  Greece Than Ireland  “Wait a few weeks and the markets will just go for someone
else, with Portugal at the front of the queue,” London-based
Diebel said. “The vigilantes pushed Ireland into the same
situation Greece is in. Why would you conclude they won’t do the
same to Portugal?”  Ireland’s debt crisis was triggered by the rising cost of
bailing out the nation’s banks, including  Anglo Irish Bank Corp. 
and Allied Irish Banks Plc. While Portugal doesn’t face a crisis
in its financial industry, it has a larger debt burden and the
country has almost 10 billion euros of debt that comes due
during the first half of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Teixeira dos Santos, the finance minister, said in
parliament two days ago that Portugal wants to continue
financing itself in the markets.  ‘Significantly at Risk’  “Portugal needs more cash than Ireland does because they
go to the market on a regular basis,” said  Nick Firoozye , head
of interest-rate strategy at Nomura in London. “The market may
move onto Portugal at some point because it’s significantly at
risk.”  While Ireland started to reduce spending in 2008, Portugal
has been slower to address its fiscal deficit, the fourth-
largest in the euro region, and the government failed to reach
an agreement with its biggest opposition party on the 2011
budget plan until the end of last month.  Portugal has proposed to lower its total wage bill for
public workers by 5 percent, freeze hiring and raise the so-
called value-added tax by 2 percentage points to 23 percent.  The government is counting on  exports  such as paper and
wood products to support expansion. Portugal’s  economy 
unexpectedly grew 0.4 percent in the third quarter from the
previous three months, beating economists’ estimates for a
contraction, as exports rose and imports grew at a slower pace.  Still, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development yesterday forecast the economy will swing to a
contraction of 0.2 percent next year.  “Their view on fiscal consolidation is still premised on
an excessively-optimistic growth projection,” Citigroup’s
Mansell said. “Portugal is hugely reliant on the fortunes of
its neighbors and it takes a huge stretch of the imagination to
see growth remaining buoyant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  