-- EU, IMF Officials Fly to Dublin as Talk Shifts to Bailout
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-18T07:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/irish-talks-turn-to-government-bailout-as-eu-officials-join-imf-in-dublin.html
European Union and International
Monetary Fund officials jet into Dublin today as the Irish
government edges closer to accepting a bailout for its national
finances and the banking system.  The government will hold talks with the EU, IMF and the
European Central Bank across the capital “over a number of
days,” a Finance Ministry spokesman said yesterday. Discussions
will be held at the Irish central bank, the country’s  bond
agency  and the Finance Ministry. No press briefings are planned
today.  While EU Commissioner  Olli Rehn  indicated yesterday the
discussions will center on the financial system, the central
bank said Ireland will also consider steps “to improve  market 
confidence” in the “government finances.” Prime Minister
 Brian Cowen  says the government is fully funded until mid-2011.  “We are in the end game,” said  James Nixon , co-chief
European economist at Societe Generale SA in London. “A bailout
is desperately needed, not just for the sovereign but for the
banking sector.”  Ireland’s government has drawn up a plan to borrow cash on
the markets for its banks, supported by a guarantee from the
ECB, the Irish Independent said today without citing anyone.
That would allow Ireland to avoid a technical bailout, the paper
said.  Book Scan  The mission to Dublin has eased investors’ concerns about
Ireland’s fiscal prospects. The  yield  on Ireland’s 10-year
government bond was unchanged at 8.327 percent, while the spread
over the equivalent German bonds rose one basis point to 556
basis points. The spread touched a record 652 points on Nov. 11.  The euro rose to $1.3594 as of 7:51 a.m. in Dublin from
$1.3529 yesterday.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  has no scheduled public
events today. Cowen , who told state broadcaster RTE late
yesterday that he won’t set out his negotiating position before
the talks start, will attend an event sponsored by International
Business Machines Corp. at 12:30 p.m. today.  The EU, ECB and IMF team will scan the books of Ireland’s
debt-laden banks to determine whether the government can fix the
banking system on its own or needs to fall back on the 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) EU-IMF bailout fund. While Cowen 
has rejected talk of a sovereign bailout, he is struggling to 
convince investors the government can shore up a banking 
industry battered by a property slump.  Trichet Disappointed  Ireland’s banking woes are “spilling over to the
sovereign,” Rehn told reporters on Nov. 16. The decision to
send EU officials to Ireland “should be considered as an
intensification of preparations for a request from Ireland for
an EU-IMF program.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  may make his first public
comments on a potential Irish bailout when he speaks on a panel
at 2:30 p.m. in Frankfurt today. Trichet is disappointed that
Ireland didn’t apply immediately for aid two days ago, the Irish
Times said today, citing an EU diplomat.  “The negotiations have been problematic,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-zone economist at BNP Paribas in London.
“At the core there is a conflict of interest -- the EU’s desire
is to stop contagion spreading by pushing Ireland to the EFSF
and an IMF program, while the Irish government is unwilling to
give up control of its economic policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  