-- Japan's Bonds Have Biggest Gain in Six Weeks as 10-Year Yields Spur Demand
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-11-19T07:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/japan-bonds-may-fall-extend-weekly-losses-on-stocks-gains-recovery-signs.html
Japanese benchmark  bonds  had their
biggest gain in six weeks as 10-year yields near the highest
level in two months attracted investors.  Benchmark  yields  fell as a technical indicator signaled
that the longest stretch of weekly gains in more than four years
may end. Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. yesterday forecast
slower growth for Japan’s economy next year. U.S. Treasuries
rose after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said job
losses may curb economic growth.  “Yields have risen enough to spur buying,” said  Takafumi Yamawaki , chief rates strategist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Tokyo, one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at
government debt sales. “People feel there is little room for
yields to climb further.”  The  yield  on the 10-year bond fell 5.5 basis points to 1.07
percent as of 4:36 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1 percent security
due September 2020 added 0.484 yen to 99.378. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  The yield reached 1.125 percent yesterday, a level not seen
since Sept. 14. It has soared 9.5 basis points in the past five
days, posting a sixth weekly increase that’s the longest streak
since April 2006.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery gained 0.31 to
141.76 at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  The 14-day  relative strength  index of the 10-year yield
climbed to 70 yesterday, a level that some traders see as an
indication an asset’s value will change direction.  Bernanke Speech  Daiwa lowered its 2011 forecast for Japan’s economic growth
to 0.9 percent while raising its estimate for this year to 2.3
percent.  “The Japanese economy is entering a plateau, and perhaps
it will still be at that plateau until the first half of next
year,” Chief Economist  Mitsumaru Kumagai  said in Tokyo
yesterday.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell three basis points to 2.87
percent after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
unemployment and disinflation are a threat to the U.S. recovery.  In prepared remarks to a conference later today in
Frankfurt, Bernanke said U.S. “unemployment might rise further
in the near term, creating added risks for the recovery.”  Gains in Japanese bonds were tempered as the  Nikkei 225
Stock Average  rose to a five-month high, reducing demand for
government debt as a refuge. The yen traded near the weakest
level versus the dollar since Oct. 5, easing concern a stronger
local currency will hurt exporters’ earnings.  ‘Bearish Trend’  “We suspect this bearish trend on 10-year Japanese
government bonds has some room to go as it seems driven by” the
yen and Japanese equities,  Christian Carrillo , head of Asia-
pacific interest rates strategy at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo,
wrote in a report today.  The Ministry of Finance met with institutional investors
today to assess demand for government debt. Many investors said
the government can increase sales of 2-year, 5-year, 30-year and
40-year bonds next year, according to a ministry official.  Some primary dealers at a meeting with the ministry
yesterday said the government can raise issuance of debt with
maturities from two to 40 years, an official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  