-- Japan, N.Z. Skippers Share Blame for Antarctic Whaling Clash, Report Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2010-11-18T03:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/japan-n-z-skippers-share-blame-for-antarctic-whaling-clash-report-says.html
The skippers of a Japanese whaling
ship and a protest vessel that collided in the Southern Ocean in
January share the blame for the incident, according to a New
Zealand investigation.  The collision on Jan. 6 badly damaged the New Zealand-
registered Ady Gil, which was part of a Sea Shepherd
Conservation Society protest against Japan’s annual whaling
expedition. The Ady Gil sank two days later while under tow back
to an Australian port for repair.  “The investigation concluded that both Ady Gil and Shonan
Maru 2 departed from international regulations and engaged in
conduct that resulted in the collision,” Maritime New Zealand
said in a report posted on its  website  today.  As the overtaking vessel, the Japanese whaler failed to
keep clear, bringing the vessels into close quarters and didn’t
take enough action to avoid a collision, the government agency
said. The Ady Gil failed to keep an effective lookout and to
react when it became apparent the risk of collision existed, it
said.  Maritime New Zealand said skirmishes between whaling
vessels and the protest fleet “contributed to a tense operating
environment” in the Southern Ocean. The agency didn’t consider
any other matters regarding the conduct and protest action of
Ady Gil, it said.  “There is no evidence to suggest that the actions and
omissions referred to were the result of an intention on the
part of the master of either vessel to collide with the other,”
the agency said in the report. “Rather, the collision appears
to have resulted from a failure by both masters and the crew of
both vessels to appreciate, and react appropriately to, the
potential for collision.”  On Feb. 15, Peter Bethune, skipper of the Ady Gil, boarded
the Shonan Maru 2 to attempt a citizen’s arrest of the Japanese
ship’s captain. He was detained on board and returned to Japan
where he was convicted on charges including assault and deported
back to New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  