-- Japan Auto Group Seeks Trade Accords to Compete With Hyundai, Kia Motors
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2010-11-18T07:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/japan-auto-group-seeks-trade-accords-to-compete-with-hyundai-kia-motors.html
Japan’s automobile manufacturers
association said the nation should pursue free trade agreements
to help carmakers already struggling with a strong currency and
competition from South Korean rivals.  The nation’s auto industry “is already in a very difficult
situation with the strong yen,”  Toshiyuki Shiga , chairman of
the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association and chief
operating officer of  Nissan Motor Co. , said today in Tokyo. “We
are asking the government to sign free trade agreements as it’s
a problem that concerns the entire Japanese economy.”  Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan expect to
earn less profit this fiscal year due to the strong yen. They
also risk losing out to South Korean carmakers whose government
is pursuing a trade agreement with the U.S. and has entered
accords with the European Union, India and other nations, said
Shiga.  Japan has been slow to embrace the agreements such as the
nine-nation  Trans-Pacific Partnership  initiated by President
 Barack Obama . Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s Cabinet this month
agreed only to begin preliminary discussions on the nine-country
TPP negotiations amid a backlash from Japan’s farmers who
benefit from tariff protection.  Kan told business leaders in Yokohama earlier this month
that Japan “is being left behind” as other Asian countries
open up their economies.  5 Million Jobs  The nation’s auto industry employs about 5 million workers
and supports the Japanese economy, Shiga said.  Shares in Toyota, Japan’s largest carmaker, have fallen 17
percent in 2010 and closed 1.4 percent higher at 3,215 yen at
the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo today. Hyundai Motor Co.
has gained 56 percent in 2010.  Japanese automakers’ market share is declining in regions
outside of North America, while South Korean automakers are
gaining, Shiga said.  “If tariffs are eliminated for Korean carmakers, their
competitiveness will rise further,” he said.  Japan’s carmakers, which historically moved production
overseas to ease trade friction, are increasing output abroad
because of the yen’s strength.  Nissan, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, in July began
importing its March compact car to Japan from Thailand after
switching production there from its Oppama factory in Kanagawa
prefecture, west of Tokyo.  Serena  It also moved production of the Serena minivan, one of the
top-selling minivan models in Japan, from Kanagawa to improve
profitability at its Kyushu plant in southern Japan that makes
models for model such as the X-Trail and Dualis sport-utility
vehicles.  The strength of the Japanese currency trimmed Toyota’s
operating profit by 120 billion yen ($1.44 billion) in the six
months through September. The stronger currency cut profit by 49
billion yen at Honda and 55 billion yen at Nissan during the
same period, according to the companies.  The yen reached a 15-year high of 80.22 against the dollar
on Nov. 1 and traded at 83.2 to the dollar as of 2:48 p.m. today.  “We need to increase the international competitiveness of
Japan’s manufacturing,” Shiga said today. Free trade “will
contribute to Japan’s overall economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue   kinoue@bloomberg.net  