-- JBS in Worst Week Since July as Delayed IPO Spurs Penalties: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2010-11-18T22:08:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/jbs-in-worst-week-since-july-as-delayed-ipo-spurs-penalties-brazil-credit.html
Bonds sold by JBS SA, the world’s
largest beef producer, are posting the worst week since they
were sold in July after Brazil’s national development bank
penalized the company $300 million for delaying a U.S. share
offering.  The yield on JBS’s 8.25 percent bonds due in 2018 climbed
33 basis points to 7.9 percent in the week through yesterday,
compared with an increase of 25 basis points for Brazilian
 corporate debt  tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index.
Mexican corporate debt rose 25 basis points in that period,
while borrowing costs for Russian companies added 23 points.  JBS agreed to pay the penalty to have more time to take its
U.S. unit public without triggering a clause that allows the
state bank to convert $2 billion of bonds into stock, increasing
its stake in the company. Corporate borrowing costs rose to an
almost two-month high this week as Brazilian bond investors
shunned higher-yielding assets amid an accounting probe of Banco
Panamericano SA.  “The delay of the IPO is going to have an impact,”  Juan Cruz , a corporate bond analyst with Barclays Plc in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “It has a real cost.”  JBS debt is underperforming emerging-market corporate
bonds. The  average yield  on debt issued by developing countries
rose 20 basis points to 5.7 percent in the week ended Nov. 16,
according to JPMorgan data. JBS bonds due in 2018 lost 2.4
percent in the period versus a 1.5 percent  drop  for developed
nation debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
JPMorgan.  2011 Share Sale  An investigation into alleged bank fraud at Sao-Paulo based
lender Panamericano pushed the average yield on Brazilian
company bonds up 38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage points, to
6.1 percent since Nov. 8, according to JPMorgan.  The fee to BNDES “may negatively impact the bond
performance in the near term,”  Ruth Mazzoni , a corporate bond
analyst at Standard Bank, wrote in a report on Nov. 15.  Vanessa Esteves , a spokeswoman for JBS, didn’t return a
call and e-mails for comment.  JBS is seeking to sell shares in the U.S. in the second
half of 2011 after delaying the sale twice this year, Chief
Executive Officer  Joesley Batista  told reporters Nov. 12. The
company wants to raise money to expand distribution after buying
 Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. , the second-largest U.S. chicken
processor, and Brazil’s Bertin SA. JBS relied on $2 billion of
BNDES financing for the purchases.  Asset Sale  JBS is also considering a reverse merger to make Pittsburg,
Texas-based Pilgrim’s Pride the parent of its U.S. unit, Batista
told reporters on Aug. 16. That plan would be done to limit the
influence of BNDES.  Delaying the IPO to next year demonstrates there’s limited
investor demand for JBS assets, said Cruz of Barclays.  “JBS bought assets that no one else wants,” Cruz said.
“JBS can’t sell these assets and has to make a payment related
to its inability to sell,” he said.  Rising cattle prices and a stronger real are hurting JBS’s
profits. Third-quarter  net income  fell 28 percent to 133.5
million reais ($77.9 million) from a year earlier, the company
said in a Nov. 12 statement. Cattle prices advanced 13 percent
in the quarter, the University of Sao Paulo’s Cepea research
institute said on its website. The real’s 7 percent gain against
the U.S. dollar in the period pared profits from exports and
overseas operations in local-currency terms.  Rating Cut  On Nov. 16, Bank of America Corp. cut the rating on JBS
stock to “neutral” from “buy,” citing the prospect that
“very high margins” on pork and poultry may not be
sustainable.  JBS’s Italian and Argentine operations may also hurt the
company’s bonds, Mazzoni said in the report. The company, which
bought half of beef producer Inalca for 225 million euros ($307
million) in 2008, filed a complaint with Italian authorities
this year after it said the Cremonini family failed to provide
financial statements for the joint venture. JBS said Aug. 23 it
was considering selling the stake, dividing assets or buying out
Cremonini’s 50 percent holding.  JBS also closed three of its six plants in Argentina after
the worst drought in 70 years and government export limits
pushed up cattle prices.  Marfrig Alimentos SA of Sao Paulo, Latin America’s second-
biggest beef producer, may benefit from the JBS share sale
delay, according to Cruz.  “If everything is equal, Marfrig is in a better position
than JBS,” he said.  Credit Default Swaps  The real rose 0.9 percent to 1.7115 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time. The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures
contract due in January 2012, the most active in Sao Paulo
trading, rose six basis points to 11.64 percent.  The yield gap on Brazilian government dollar bonds to
Treasuries widened one basis point to 176.  The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps was unchanged
at 110, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default swaps
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  JBS debt is rated BB, two levels below investment grade, by
Standard & Poor’s and one step lower by Fitch Ratings.  Moody’s rates the company B1, four levels below investment
grade, with a positive outlook. Moody’s may make a decision on a
possible upgrade by the second quarter of next year, Sao Paulo-
based analyst  Ricardo Kovacs  said in a telephone interview.  The beef processor’s bond performance may be related to its
failure to get a higher rating from Moody’s, according to  Eric Ollom , chief emerging-markets strategist with Jefferies & Co.,
the New York securities firm.  “The momentum has quieted,” Ollom said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  