-- Jeep's $40,000 Grand Cherokee Takes Chrysler Back to 1993: Jason H. Harper
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/jeep-s-40-000-grand-cherokee-takes-chrysler-back-to-1993-jason-h-harper.html
Like grunge rock and flannel, sport
utility vehicles were one of the biggest fads of the 1990s. If
you mumbled the lyrics to Nirvana’s “Smells Like Teen Spirit”
while piloting a  Ford  Explorer in 1994, you were the zeitgeist.  If the Explorer was the most popular SUV, Chrysler’s Jeep
Grand Cherokee wasn’t far behind. It started life in 1993,
emphasizing off-roading ability while tantalizing buyers with
unimagined luxuries like a keyless remote and leather seats.  No matter that the tires rarely touched dirt, by the late
’90s it was the vehicle of choice for adventure-loving moms in
northern New Jersey.  When Chrysler hitched its fortune to the SUV craze for too
long, the car died, leaving a dearth of new products. The
company is still grasping for relevancy.  Which makes the all-new, 2011 Jeep Grand Cherokee a litmus
test. Is it the right vehicle for today?  A look at gas mileage quickly quells high hopes. Despite a
new V-6 engine, it gets 16 city, 22 highway. That’s barely
better than the original 1993 Limited 4X4 model, which saw 15
and 20.  There is no direct injection or turbo-charging, so power is
lackluster at 290 horses and 260 pound-feet of torque. It’s also
got a five-speed automatic, about as cutting edge as another 90s
relic -- the  Tickle Me Elmo  toy.  A V-8 Hemi engine, with 5.7 liters, is optional. It gets
360 horsepower and 390 pound-feet of torque. A better option if
you’re towing stuff like boats, but otherwise gas mileage only
gets worse.  Jeep DNA  Good news -- it looks cool. The Grand Cherokee has always
had something unmistakably Western and adventuresome in its
exterior DNA, and the 2011 model manages to retain its Jeep-ness
while still looking fresh.  The iconic grill is there, though brighter and blingier
than ever before. So are those squared-off wheel arches, also
found on the Wrangler, that unmistakably read Jeep.  The side window columns are blacked out, with a strip of
brightwork surrounding the glass -- an illusion first used by
the Audi Q7 to deemphasize bulk. Both women and men from whom I
solicited opinions liked the Grand Cherokee’s looks, suggesting
that it doesn’t pander to a specific sex.  Pricing starts at $31,000 for the two-wheel-drive Laredo
model, traveling upward with luxuries. I drove the four-wheel-
drive Limited with a base sticker of $40,000; $45,590 as tested.
The $43,000  Overland  model is the top dog.  Cheaper Cherokee  The new models are hundreds of dollars cheaper than the
outgoing 2010 models, a smart enticement on Chrysler’s part.  A big part of a Jeep’s allure is the ability to run over
rugged mountains, even for buyers who live in the flatlands of
Ohio. That off-roading feature means some compromise of on-road
performance since the demands of the two types of driving are so
different.  Jeep takes an elegant approach -- one already perfected by
Land Rover. Buyers can opt for an optional air suspension
system, which alters the height of the truck. It will hunker
down while on the freeway or rise while off-roading, allowing an
impressive underside clearance of up to 10.7 inches.  Having a lower center of gravity makes a big difference
when exiting off a highway ramp. While it isn’t as fine-tuned as
a Porsche Cayenne SUV or a crossover like the Acura MDX, the
latest Grand Cherokee handles far more like a car than its
predecessors.  This includes road noise. At 75 miles per hour, other than
the sound of the 18-inch tires, the cabin was quiet.  Rocks and Snow  If you do find yourself on a back road in the Appalachians,
I have little doubt that the Jeep would live up to its name. The
air-suspension system lets you adjust for the type of terrain
you’re tackling. Simply dial in options like “rock” or
“snow,” and the vehicle adjusts a host of systems such as the
throttle sensitivity and stability control.  If none of the Jeep’s technology is exactly innovative, the
company has made a serious effort to keep astride of luxury-
level electronics. Rain-sensitive windshield wipers and heated
seats are standard on the Limited.  For an extra $1,300, you get adaptive cruise control,
forward collision warning and a blind-spot monitoring system
that alerts you when another car is in that area.  The interior is agreeably straightforward and materials
line up nicely with one another. It feels like more care has
gone into the workmanship than I remember from previous models.  We’ll begin to better understand the future of Chrysler
next year, when its alliance with Fiat should start bearing
fruit. Expect smaller, high-mileage cars based on the  Fiat 
platforms. With luck, we may see some Italian design flair.  The Grand Cherokee, though, is a throwback to the earlier
Chrysler. It might provoke some nostalgia from certain buyers,
but it’s hard to believe it will once more drive the company’s
sales.  Like grunge rock, the hit days are long over.  The 2011 Jeep Grand Cherokee Limited 4X4 at a Glance  Engine: 3.6-liter V-6 with 290 horsepower and 260 pound-
feet of torque.  Transmission: Five-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 in about 8 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 16 city, 23 highway.  Price as tested: $45,590.  Best features: Looks fresh; better interior.  Worst feature: The new V-6 delivers neither great mileage
nor superior power.  Target buyer: Nostalgic SUV-lovers who like to mix dirt and
comfort.  ( Jason H. Harper  writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 