-- Jobless-Benefits Extension Blocked in House as Republicans Balk Over Cost
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-11-19T00:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/jobless-benefits-extension-blocked-in-house-as-republicans-balk-over-cost.html
A bill to extend jobless benefits
for three months was defeated in the U.S. House, threatening to
cut off aid to thousands of the nation’s long-term unemployed.  Republicans, in a replay of a dispute earlier this year,
blocked the legislation because its $12 billion  cost  would be
added to the government’s  deficit . They demanded offsetting
savings elsewhere in the budget.  The 258-154  vote  fell short of the two-thirds needed under
an expedited approval process. Voting against the bill were 11
Democrats and 143 Republicans.  Aid is set to expire Nov. 30 for some unemployed, and with
Congress out of session next week for the Thanksgiving holiday,
lawmakers will have little time to find agreement before then.  “This bill is like déjà vu all over again, and not in a
good way,” said Representative  Charles Boustany , a Louisiana
Republican. “We all want to help those in need but the American
people also know someone has to pay when government spends
money, and it shouldn’t be our children and grandchildren.”  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat, said
“ending unemployment assistance will not only be devastating
for these individuals and their families but it will also hurt
the economy as a whole by undermining consumer confidence and
demand.”  About 8,400 Americans will see their unemployment checks
cut off by the end of the first week of December, according to
Labor Department estimates. By the end of the third week of
December, 1.36 million Americans will be affected if Congress
doesn’t act, the agency said.  The unemployment rate last month was 9.6 percent. Jobless
benefits were cut off earlier this year for some unemployed
people after a similar dispute in the Senate led by Kentucky
Republican  Jim Bunning .  The bill is H.R. 6419.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Jackson, Michigan at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva@bloomberg.net  