-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Climb Less Than Forecast in Sign Labor Market Heals
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-11-18T13:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/jobless-claims-in-u-s-increased-less-than-estimated-to-439-000-last-week.html
Fewer workers than forecast filed
claims for U.S. jobless benefits last week, a sign the labor
market is starting to improve.  Applications  for unemployment insurance payments rose by
2,000 to 439,000 in the week ended Nov. 13, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The  total number  of people
collecting unemployment insurance dropped to the lowest level in
two years, while those receiving extended payments climbed.  Companies are slowing firings and beginning to pick up the
pace of hiring, key to bringing down  unemployment  from near 10
percent and boosting consumer confidence and spending. Citing a
“slow” recovery in employment and output, the  Federal Reserve 
on Nov. 3 announced it would purchase $600 billion in Treasuries
through June.  “It is indicative of some mild improvement in the labor
market,” said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  “It’s moving in the
right direction, but it still leaves the claims numbers very
high.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report on
optimism Ireland is on the brink of accepting a bailout to
rescue its indebted banks. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index maturing in December rose 1.2 percent to 1,191 at 8:40
a.m. in New York. Treasury securities dropped, sending the yield
on the benchmark 10-year note up to 2.91 percent from 2.88
percent late yesterday.  Better than Projected  Jobless benefits applications were projected to rise to
441,000, according to the median forecast of 46 economists in
the Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from 426,000 to 455,000.
The Labor Department revised the prior week’s figure up to
437,000 from the previously reported 435,000.  Government offices were closed on Nov. 11 for the Veterans
Day holiday, which typically translates to a drop in claims
before seasonal adjustment. The decrease this year matched
government projections, leading to little change in the adjusted
data, a Labor Department spokesman said as the figures were
being released.  Today’s report corresponds to the week the Labor Department
surveys businesses to calculate the monthly payroll figures. The
next jobs report is due Dec. 3.  The four-week moving average, a less volatile measure than
the weekly figures, dropped to 443,000, the lowest level since
September 2008, the report showed.  Continuing Claims  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
fell by 48,000 in the week ended Nov. 6 to 4.3 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended and emergency benefits under
federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments increased by about
121,000 to 4.93 million in the week ended Oct. 30.  The unemployment rate among people eligible for benefits
fell to 3.4 percent in the week ended Nov. 6, from 3.5 percent
in the prior week.  Forty-two states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 11 reported a decrease. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly employment report
-- accelerates. That relationship has broken down in recent
months as some companies continue to cut staff, while others
expand, pointing to an uneven recovery.  Payrolls Growing  Companies added 159,000 workers to payrolls in October, a
fourth consecutive month of more than 100,000 jobs created, even
as  unemployment  held at 9.6 percent, the Labor Department
reported on Nov. 5.  “Elevated” unemployment and “low” inflation prompted
Federal Reserve policy makers this month to announce a second
round of large-scale asset purchases.  “The unemployment rate is elevated, and measures of
underlying inflation are somewhat low, relative to levels”
policy makers view as consistent with their mandate, the Fed
said in its Nov. 3 statement.  Hiring may get a boost as retailers take on extra workers
for the holiday shopping season that started this month. Kohl’s
Corp., a department store chain, plans to hire about 40,000
people for the holiday period, 21 percent more than last year.
Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores  Inc., the world’s
largest retailer, will also ramp up temporary staff.  “Hiring for the holidays should be similar to last year,”
spokesman  Greg Rossiter  told reporters last month.  Other companies are adding staff as they see a longer-term
pickup in demand. Citigroup Inc. plans to hire about 200 bankers
by the end of 2011 to court small businesses.  “It’s a renewed focus for us,”  Raj Seshadri , head of
small-business banking for New York-based Citigroup, said in an
interview. “We feel we can help business owners and the
economic recovery, and there’s money to be made for our
shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  