-- JPMorgan Is Lehman's Next Deep-Pocket Target After Barclays Trial Finishes
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/jpmorgan-is-lehman-brothers-next-deep-pocket-target-after-barclays-ends.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , whose
$11 billion suit against Barclays Plc is drawing to a close, is
going after  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  as the next deep pocket to pay
creditors in the biggest U.S. bankruptcy.  Lehman sued JPMorgan for $8.6 billion in collateral and
tens of billions in damages, claiming the bank and Chairman
 James Dimon  helped cause its collapse. The second-biggest U.S.
bank twice asked a judge to dismiss the lawsuit. It said it was
protected by a law governing the $467 trillion market for swaps
and repurchase agreements when it lent Lehman’s failing
brokerage $100 billion a day during the 2008 financial crisis.  JPMorgan’s defense hinges on so-called “safe harbor”
laws, which allow clearing banks handling securities trades to
take collateral from dealers without getting sued if a
bankruptcy occurs later. Debtors can undo some transfers of
assets done close to a bankruptcy filing. Banks invoke safe-
harbor laws to oppose return of the money.  “Lehman has some viable claims here, so the real question
is going to be the scope of the safe-harbor provisions,” said
 Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy professor at Seton Hall University
School of Law in Newark, New Jersey.  JPMorgan, based in New York, has argued in court papers
that safe-harbor laws “present an insurmountable legal obstacle
to Lehman’s lawsuit.” Losing that argument may hurt confidence
in the market for swaps, repos and securities contracts, lawyers
said.  A victory for Lehman would help its creditors, who the
company has said stand to get an average of 15.8 cents on the
dollar without any contribution from JPMorgan, which last month
reported third-quarter net income of $4.42 billion.  ‘Chain Reaction’  Without safe harbors, Lehman’s bankruptcy might have
brought down other firms in a “chain reaction” as banks
stopped lending to them, JPMorgan told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
 James M. Peck  in Manhattan in an Oct. 19 request to have the
case dismissed. Lehman hasn’t filed a written response yet.  In Lehman’s favor is an attitude among bankruptcy judges
that “all creditors should be equal in bankruptcy, but the safe
harbor says some have advantages,” said Guy Dempsey, a lawyer
in New York with Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP who specializes in
derivatives and bank regulation.  Some judges think safe-harbor laws are clear, and they
leave it alone, he said. “Others conclude the law is not clear
so they need to interpret and modify it,” he said.  Peck, who handles Lehman’s bankruptcy, has at least twice
ruled against Lehman creditors who asserted that their rights
trump safe-harbor laws. Metavante Corp. and  Swedbank AB  appealed
his rulings in a higher court. Metavante later decided to settle
with Lehman; Swedbank’s appeal is ongoing.  2011 Trial  JPMorgan spokesman  Joseph Evangelisti  declined to comment,
as did Peck, through his assistant Lynda Calderon. Peck may rule
on the Barclays case in January or February and hold hearings on
the suit against JPMorgan next year, said lawyers in the two
cases.  Dimon promised former Lehman Chairman  Richard Fuld  he would
return collateral a day before Lehman’s bankruptcy filing, and
didn’t do so, Lehman said in a September filing. Earlier, it
accused JPMorgan of using its “life and death power” as
clearing bank to the brokerage “to siphon billions of dollars
in critically needed assets.”  Lehman hasn’t proved Dimon promised anything, JPMorgan said
in a filing.  Swaps trades, protected by safe harbor, total $467 trillion
globally, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association,
or  ISDA , estimates. The figure doesn’t show how much money is at
risk because many trades offset each other. Daily loans in the
so-called tri-party repo market where JPMorgan lent money to
Lehman were $2.8 trillion in 2008, according to the bank.  Split Argument  JPMorgan says all of its dealings with Lehman and its
brokerage were governed by safe harbors.  Peck  might say the bank
can’t be sued for taking collateral from Lehman’s brokerage to
support its trades, and that it can be sued for taking assets
from the Lehman holding company, Lubben said.  Arguably, taking collateral from the brokerage’s parent
wasn’t directly related to repo trades, so it wasn’t protected
by safe harbor, he said.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank with assets
of $639 billion, foundered on Sept. 15, 2008, because of risky
real estate bets and too much debt, including repos that it
tried to hide from investors, according to bankruptcy examiner
 Anton Valukas ’s report.  Lehman might have grounds to sue JPMorgan, he said. The
suit is scheduled to be tried by Peck in 2012.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The adversary case is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  