-- Karoon Gas Falls for a Second Day After Pricing of Brazilian IPO Delayed
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-11-18T01:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/karoon-gas-falls-for-a-second-day-after-pricing-of-brazilian-ipo-delayed.html
Karoon Gas Australia Ltd. , seeking
to raise as much as $773 million by selling shares in its South
American unit, fell for a second day in Sydney trading after
delaying pricing the Brazilian initial public offering.  The Australian gas explorer slumped as much as 10 percent
to A$7.56, following a drop of about 8 percent yesterday. The
shares were 5.6 percent lower at A$7.93 at 11:28 a.m. Sydney
time, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index was little changed.  “Judging by the recent share price performance of Karoon,
investors must be assuming the proposed IPO has experienced
difficulties,”  Gordon Ramsay , a Melbourne-based analyst at UBS
AG wrote in a report. The analyst kept his “buy” rating on
Karoon, saying an oil discovery by partner Petroleo Brasileiro
SA “adds confidence to the potential of Karoon’s highly
attractive prospect inventory” in the Santos Basin off Brazil.  Karoon, also a partner of  ConocoPhillips  in a gas venture
off northwest Australia, said yesterday it aims to price the
offering in Brazil today. The pricing had been set for Nov. 10.  Petroleo Brasileiro, or Petrobras, announced this week the
find at the Maruja exploration prospect off the coast of Brazil.
Karoon, which said that the well continues to be drilled, agreed
to acquire a 20 percent stake in the venture.  Mt. Martha, Victoria-based Karoon plans to offer 31.9
percent of the South American unit, selling 1.03 million shares
at between $603 and $750 apiece, the company said Oct. 27.  Karoon intends to use the proceeds from the IPO to fund
drilling at seven prospects in Brazil and five in Peru.  “We think success with Maruja” may allow Karoon Gas to
increase its ties with Petrobras in South America, Ramsay of UBS
wrote in the report dated yesterday. He said Karoon’s pricing
date was delayed because it was too close to the announcement of
the Petrobras well result.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 