-- Karoon Gas Scraps $773 Million Brazil IPO in Sixth Canceled Sale This Year
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-11-19T15:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/karoon-cancels-690-million-share-offering-in-brazil-on-market-conditions.html
Karoon Gas Australia Ltd., an oil
and gas explorer, canceled a Brazilian initial public offering
of its South American unit, citing an “unfavorable” market
after five other companies delayed or shelved sales this year.  Shares sold by Brazilian energy companies haven’t fared as
well as investors expected, Mt. Martha, Victoria-based Karoon
said in a statement today. Karoon, which had planned to raise as
much as $773 million in the sale, may reconsider an IPO at
another time, Chief Financial Officer  Scott Hosking  said.  “Previous IPOs in Brazil haven’t traded as well as they
could have, so people were leery of taking the risk,” Hosking
said in a phone interview. “We would have had to drop the price
in Brazil, and we weren’t willing to do that. There are far too
many good prospects to give it away.”  Companies from OSX Brasil SA to Multiplus SA raised less
than they sought in IPOs this year as Europe’s debt crisis
damped demand for riskier assets. State-controlled oil producer
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  has fallen 30 percent this year and 4.4
percent since raising $70 billion in the world’s biggest stock
offer in September. The six shelved Brazilian equity sales
compare with four in the same period last year and 29 in 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Karoon  fell as much as 9.5 percent to A$7.15 in Sydney
trading today before recovering to close 1.3 percent higher at
A$8. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.2 percent.  Brazil, Peru  Karoon,  ConocoPhillips ’s partner in a gas venture off
northwest Australia, had aimed to use the proceeds from the deal
to fund exploration in Brazil and Peru. While Karoon has A$330
million ($324 million) in cash, enough to explore off South
America and Australia for as long as 24 months, the company may
sell a 20 percent stake in its Brazil assets to a partner to
help fund the venture, Hosking said.  Karoon plans to drill at least three wells in Brazil and
two in Peru and spend about A$180 million on its South American
exploration program over the next two years, he said. The
Australian company has holdings in Brazil’s Santos Basin, where
 Petrobras  has made discoveries.  Petrobras, based in Rio de Janeiro, fell 1.4 percent in Sao
Paulo trading to 25.55 reais at 9:58 a.m. New York time.  Brazilian oil explorer HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA is
down 0.8 percent since raising $1.54 billion in an IPO last
month.  Investors already had access to shares in companies with
Brazilian oil reserves,  Xavier Grunauer , a Sydney-based analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in an e-mail today.  “Why add to this position” through a smaller, Australian-
based company? he said.  ‘Disappointing’ End  Karoon had planned to sell 32 percent of the South American
unit, offering 1.03 million shares at $603 to $750 each, the
company said Oct. 27. After a delay from the initially planned
Nov. 10, Karoon had expected to price the shares yesterday and
reiterated that goal in a Nov. 18 address to shareholders.  “It is disappointing to have it end this way,” Hosking
said. “Up until yesterday we thought the deal would get done.”  Petrobras announced an oil find earlier this week at the
Maruja exploration prospect off the coast of Brazil. Karoon,
which said that the well continues to be drilled, agreed to
acquire a 20 percent stake in the venture. The discovery adds to
Karoon’s appeal, UBS AG analyst  Gordon Ramsay  said.  Karoon  has declined 25 percent this year in Australian
trading.  Price Target  “If, in a worst-case scenario, the Brazil IPO does not
take place, we can still justify our A$11.64 share price
target,” Ramsay said in a Nov. 17 report. ConocoPhillips’
drilling plan in the Karoon venture off Australia shows the
company “is very serious about proving it can deliver
sufficient gas reserves,” the Melbourne-based analyst said.  At least 206 equity offerings valued at $37.9 billion have
been postponed or withdrawn around the world this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Queensland state may sell shares of Australian coal-train
operator QR National Ltd. near the bottom of an indicated price
range in its IPO, three people familiar with the matter said.  The stock, due to start trading in Sydney Nov. 22, will
probably be sold for between A$2.55 and A$2.60 each, the people
said. The state government said Oct. 11 it would sell the shares
at between A$2.50 and A$3 apiece to raise between A$3.66 billion
and A$5.05 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net .
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  