-- KeyCorp Says Mooney to Be First Woman Chief Exeutive at a Top 20 U.S. Bank
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   N i s h a d   M a j m u d a r
-- 2010-11-19T15:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/keycorp-chief-meyer-to-retire-in-may-beth-mooney-to-take-over-bank-s-helm.html
KeyCorp , Ohio’s second-largest bank,
said  Beth Mooney  will take over as chairman and chief executive
officer when  Henry L. Meyer  retires in May, making her the first
woman to lead one of the 20 biggest U.S. banks.  Mooney, 55, vice chairman of KeyCorp and head of community
banking, was named president and chief operating officer
effective immediately, the Cleveland-based lender said yesterday
in a statement. She was named a member of the board and takes
over as CEO on May 1. The stock slid 3.1 percent in New York,
the biggest drop in the 24-company KBW Bank Index, on
speculation that a takeover is less likely.  “Our industry has many capable, competent and accomplished
women,” Mooney said in an interview. “I’m proud to be among
them and being the one to go into this role, I will carry that
mantle with a little extra responsibility to perform well for
all of us.” Mooney said she doesn’t expect major changes to
strategy or structure.  KeyCorp, which has yet to repay $2.5 billion in U.S.
bailout funds, became profitable in the second quarter after
eight straight losses. It has been the  third-best  performer in
the KBW Bank Index this year, gaining 41 percent through
yesterday, and declining 24 cents today to $7.61 at 10:07 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Takeover Less Likely  The management switch was surprising and likely means the
bank is no longer an acquisition target, said  Gerard Cassidy ,
bank analyst with RBC Capital Markets in Portland, Maine, in a
note to investors yesterday.  “We’ve rarely seen a new CEO sell out the bank in their
first strategic transaction,” Cassidy wrote. “As such, Key’s
takeover premium will likely go away and valuations will be
weighted on the business fundamentals of the company.”  Mooney joined KeyCorp in 2006, after being chief financial
officer of AmSouth Bancorp, which was bought by  Regions
Financial Corp.  that year. She previously worked for financial
companies including Citicorp Real Estate Inc. and Bank One
Corp., according to the statement.  Meyer, 60, has been CEO since 2001. His retirement is part
of the company’s succession planning, KeyCorp said.  Former Teller  Meyer began as a teller at the former Society National Bank
in Cleveland and later helped oversee Society Corp.’s 1994
purchase of KeyCorp of Albany, New York. The transaction formed
a bank with more than 900 branches across the northern tier of
the U.S., from Maine to Alaska.  KeyCorp now has more than 1,000 retail  branches  in 14
states.  Fifth Third Bancorp , based in Cincinnati, is Ohio’s
biggest bank by assets.  Meyer, who has been at KeyCorp or its predecessors for more
than 38 years, cited the company’s turnaround and a sluggish
economy as reasons for the timing of his retirement. The bank’s
nonaccrual loans have declined for four consecutive quarters and
net charge-offs have fallen for three straight, he said.  “The recovery is going to be slow for a little while,
including all of 2011 and some of 2012,” Meyer said in an
interview. “I thought about how old I am, and didn’t Key want a
CEO who had a little longer timeframe in his or her mind.”  KeyCorp also said that board member  Lauralee Martin , COO
and CFO of Jones Lang LaSalle Inc., resigned effective
immediately. Martin, who’s been on the board since 2003, stepped
down because of the growing business relationship between the
two companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  