-- Kocherlakota Says Fed's Asset Purchases Won't Ignite `Inflationary Fire'
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-18T19:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/kocherlakota-suports-asset-purchases-calls-inflation-concerns-misplaced.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President Narayana Kocherlakota defended the central bank’s
program to buy $600 billion of bonds, saying criticism it will
cause a surge in inflation is misplaced.  “This basic logic isn’t valid in current circumstances,”
because banks already have about $1 trillion in excess reserves,
Kocherlakota said in the text of remarks in Chicago today. The
creation of more reserves through bond purchases won’t be
“‘kindling’ for some future inflationary fire,” he said.  Kocherlakota, who will vote on the policy-setting Federal
Open Market Committee for the first time next year, said he
supported the central bank’s decision to expand monetary
stimulus. He called the policy “a move in the right
direction,” although “there are good reasons to suspect that
the ultimate effects” will be “relatively modest.”  The Minneapolis Fed chief bolstered the central bank’s
defense of a policy that has increasingly come under attack
since it was announced on Nov. 3, a day after the election gave
Republicans control of the House of Representatives. Yesterday,
 John Boehner , nominated as the next House speaker, and three
other Republican lawmakers sent Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  a
letter expressing “deep concerns” about a policy they said
risked weakening the dollar and fueling asset bubbles.  ‘Nonverbal Communication’  The “main goal” of quantitative easing is to lower real
interest rates, cutting borrowing costs for consumers and
companies and bolstering housing and  stock prices , Kocherlakota
said. He also said the policy is also a form of “nonverbal
communication” about the FOMC’s future plans, indicating that
the “extended period” of low interest rates it has promised
will last “for an even longer period of time.”  Kocherlakota said “inflation and employment are both too
low, and the pace of the recovery is too slow. Economic growth
is low and softening further.”  “I think it is safe to say that, given this situation, the
FOMC would have liked to have been able to cut its target
interest rate,” he said. “But this option is not available.”  The Fed has kept its  benchmark interest rate  near zero
since December 2008, which has failed to bring down an
unemployment rate that’s held at 9.4 percent or higher since May
2009.  A group of 23 people including former Republican government
officials and economists published a letter to Bernanke this
week urging him to halt the  expansion  of monetary stimulus
because it risks an inflation surge.  Officials in Germany, China and Brazil have also criticized
the U.S. central bank, with German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  calling the Fed’s asset-purchase program “clueless”
and suggesting it’s designed to erode the value of the U.S.
dollar.  Concerns Raised  “There has been some concerns raised that by creating $600
billion of reserves, that that somehow represents extreme
downward pressure on the dollar,” Kocherlakota said in response
to audience questions after his speech. “For the same reasons
why” it won’t cause surging inflation, “that effect is likely
to be relatively modest.”  The government could use fiscal policy to mimic the impact
of a cut in the Fed’s target interest rate, Kocherlakota also
said in the speech to the National Tax Association.  The combination of a consumption tax of 1 percent, a labor-
income tax cut of 1 percentage point and an investment tax
credit implemented in 2011 would have the equivalent impact of a
1 point interest-rate reduction by the central bank, Minneapolis
Fed research shows. The consumption tax and labor-income tax
change would be undertaken with a one-year delay.  “The analysis demonstrates the remarkable power of public
finance in addressing important macroeconomic questions,”
Kocherlakota said. “I find the resultant policy to be
attractive because it may be able to generate macroeconomic
stimulus without increasing the deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Salas  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  