-- South Korea's Bond Tax May Spur More Emerging Markets to Raise Barricades
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   F r a n c e s   Y o o n
-- 2010-11-19T09:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/korea-to-revive-tax-on-foreigners-bond-holdings-to-slow-capital-inflows.html
South Korea’s revival of a tax on
foreigners investing in its bonds may prompt more emerging
markets to act to curb fund inflows driving up their currencies.  The government will back legislation reinstating a 14
percent tax on interest income from treasury and central bank
bonds and a 20 percent capital gains levy on their sale, the
finance ministry said yesterday.  The  Group of 20  summit in Seoul last week gave emerging
nations more room to counter funds surging into their higher-
yielding markets. Officials from Africa to Latin America to Asia
have already taken steps this year to slow inflows and restrain
their currencies to protect exporters and prevent asset bubbles.  “Other emerging countries may follow suit as the G-20 gave
them license to use some capital controls as a shield,” said  Oh Suk Tae , an economist at SC First Bank Korea Ltd. in Seoul.
“They know they cannot reverse global fund flows. They just
want to slow them.”  The won has gained 27 percent since March last year and
closed little changed from yesterday at 1,133.65 per dollar as
of 3 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on the 3.75 percent Korean bond due June 2013 fell
four basis points to 3.3 percent, its lowest close since last
month.  The revived tax may not stop funds moving into the country
after the Bank of Korea this week raised interest rates and the
U.S. Federal Reserve said it would buy $600 billion of
Treasuries, potentially spurring capital overseas.  Currency Derivatives  “The question now is whether re-imposing the tax will be
enough to deter foreign investors,” said  Lim Ji Won , an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Seoul. “We will be
watching to see if the government needs to do more, like
tightening rules on foreign-currency derivatives at foreign
banks.”  Thailand is ending foreigners’ 15 percent tax exemption on
income from domestic bonds, while Brazil last month tripled a
tax on purchases of local fixed-income assets by overseas
investors. Taiwan, which reported 9.8 percent third-quarter
economic growth yesterday, this month restored curbs on foreign
investment in its debt originally scrapped in 1995.  Malaysia doesn’t plan to restrict capital inflows, though
the central bank will maintain “rigorous surveillance” to
ensure its markets aren’t overwhelmed, said Governor  Zeti Akhtar Aziz .  Long-Term Investment  The Fed’s bond-purchase program may spur capital inflows to
Indonesia, Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  told reporters in
Jakarta today. Policy makers will need to be careful if major
economies continue to inject liquidity into markets, he said.  Southeast Asia’s largest economy welcomes capital inflows
and will direct the funds to “productive sectors” to help
economic growth, he said. The government hopes the incoming
capital is focused on long and mid-term investment, not
speculation, the minister said.  Foreign investors held more than 78 trillion won ($69
billion) of South Korea treasury and central bank bonds as of
Oct. 31, according to data from the Financial Supervisory
Service and the Finance Ministry. They held 14.9 percent of
treasury bonds and 18.6 percent of central bank bonds. This
compares with 8.4 percent of treasury bonds and 12.7 percent of
central bank bonds at the end of 2008.  Luxembourg, China  Luxembourg, the U.S. and China led purchases among overseas
buyers this year, with foreigners investing a net 21 trillion
won in the 10 months through October, according to data from the
financial regulator.  The Asian Development Bank said that while capital controls
may be appropriate at times, policy makers need to have a plan
for ending them.  “We do see maybe a role for temporary, well-designed
capital controls,”  Joseph Zveglich , the bank’s assistant chief
economist, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “But this
is always something that is going to be somewhat controversial,
in part because there’s a tendency for temporary measures to
become permanent and that can lead to some distortion.”  Kim Song Sik , a lawmaker from the ruling Grand National
Party, last week submitted a bill to revive the 14 percent tax
on interest and 20 percent levy on capital gains on bond
holdings by foreigners to curb foreign-exchange volatility. Kang
Gil Boo, another ruling party member, on Nov. 12 submitted a
bill that would introduce a flexible tax rate on investment
gains from treasury and central bank bonds.  Ruling Party  The ruling Grand National Party controls 171 seats in the
299-member legislature. Kim said that opposition Democratic
Party lawmakers want even tougher capital control measures such
as a transaction tax.  The government said yesterday it would expedite the passage
of the measures through the National Assembly. They may take
effect Jan. 1 and apply to bonds bought on or after Nov. 13 this
year, the government said.  “Excessive bond buying by foreigners can make markets more
volatile, which in turn can put the entire economic system at
risk,” Vice Finance Minister  Yim Jong Yong  told reporters
yesterday in Gwacheon, south of Seoul. “It can create inflation
and asset bubbles as well as threaten the nation’s international
credibility if the funds leave the country at once.”  Yim also said South Korea will consider taking more steps
against capital inflows if needed. In May 2009, Korea abolished
the tax for foreign investors to attract more investment.  A ‘Mistake’  “This is a mistake,”  Christian Carrillo , head of Asia-
pacific interest rates strategy at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo,
said of the bond tax plan. “It will not prevent the won from
rising as the current account surplus is larger than the KTB
flows,” he said, referring to Korean treasury bonds.  The  Bank of Korea  on Nov. 16 raised the  seven-day
repurchase rate  by 0.25 percentage point to 2.5 percent, the
second interest rate increase this year, after inflation surged
past the central bank’s ceiling.  Consumer-price inflation accelerated to a  20-month high  of
4.1 percent in October. The central bank aims for 2 percent to 4
percent on average through 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eunkyung Seo  in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Frances Yoon  at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  