-- KTOs Capital Hires Hathersage's Bill Lipschutz for New Currency Hedge Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2010-11-18T01:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/ktos-capital-hires-hathersage-s-bill-lipschutz-for-new-currency-hedge-fund.html
KTOs Capital Partners Co., a
Japanese hedge fund, hired  Hathersage Capital Management LLC’s 
 Bill Lipschutz  to start a currency fund next month that will
target Japanese pensions seeking to cut foreign exchange risks.  The KTOs Currency Fund, which will invest in the currencies 
of the Group of 10 most developed nations, aims to manage $300
million of assets within a year, said  Satoko Koshida , founding
partner of the Tokyo-based firm. The fund, which Lipschutz will
run from New York, will start on Dec. 1 with $5 million from a
local pension fund, said Koshida, who declined to name the fund.  The currency fund will be the third for KTOs after two
funds of hedge funds last year that invest in emerging Asian and
global managers. Japanese pension funds, estimated to handle
more than 60 trillion yen ($722 billion), are trying to boost
their returns as a strengthening yen, the best-performer against
the dollar this year among 16 major currencies, hinders the
nation’s export-fueled recovery.  “This currency fund will allow Japanese pensions to hedge
their foreign exchange exposures given the low correlation with
other asset classes such as bonds and equities,” Koshida said
in an interview in Tokyo. “The currency market is a great place
to diversify investments in this current climate where the
global market is getting smaller and more connected.”  Veteran Manager  Lipschutz , who has a track record of more than two decades,
oversees portfolios at Hathersage Capital, with $650 million
under management. The New York-based firm’s funds have an annual
average return of 16 percent since 1991, according to its
 website .  Japanese pension returns have been hurt by low bond yields,
a falling birthrate and slumping stocks in the past two decades.  The yen has risen 12 percent against the dollar in 2010,
the most among the G-10 currencies. The 10-year Japanese
government bond  yield  is hovering at around 1 percent, while the
stock benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  is a quarter of its
1989 peak.  The firm, whose name is derived from Korondemo Tadaja
Okinai Zo, which means “I will learn from my mistakes” in
Japanese, obtained a discretionary investment manager license
from  Japan’s Financial Services Agency  in June to help expand
its investor base with pension funds, Koshida said.  KTOs’s $50 million Asian Rising Star Fund has returned 0.4
percent this year through September and has made investments in
seven managers so far, said Koshida, who formerly managed a fund
of hedge funds at Investor Select Advisors. Its $40 million
Global Super Star Fund that currently invests in six hedge funds
globally has returned 5.6 percent this year through September,
she said.  Funds of Funds  KTOs will invest about $6 million from its global fund of
hedge funds into the new currency fund, Koshida said.  Investors use  funds of funds  to spread their money across a
variety of holdings, relying on managers to investigate the
individual funds. The Eurekahedge Fund of Funds Index has gained
3 percent this year through October, compared with the 7.3
percent return by Eurekahedge’s global hedge fund index.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 