-- Najib May Win Back States in Malaysian Election, Ex-Premier Mahathir Says
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2010-11-18T02:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/najib-may-win-back-states-in-malaysian-election-ex-premier-mahathir-says.html
Former Malaysian Prime Minister
 Mahathir Mohamad  said the country’s ruling National Front
coalition may win back one or two states in general elections
required by 2013 because the opposition is in “shambles.”  The ruling coalition “may not get the two-thirds majority
which would enable them to rule the country with a strong
majority,” Mahathir said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur on
Nov. 16. It “might be able to recover maybe one or two
states.”  His optimism for the ruling party’s prospects follows a
series of wins in local by-elections. The successes may convince
Prime Minister  Najib Razak  to call national elections before
they’re required by 2013, said  Ooi Kee Beng , a senior fellow at
the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in Singapore.  “There’s a certain feel-good factor spreading in his
camp,” Ooi said by e-mail. “The premier may take the risk and
call for general elections before the opposition catches its
breath.”  Najib will chair a meeting of the National Front’s supreme
council this weekend to discuss preparations for elections, the
Star reported today, citing a person from the party it didn’t
name. Participants won’t discuss a date for the contest,
according to the report.  His coalition won back control of Perak state on Peninsular
Malaysia in February 2009 after three opposition lawmakers
defected to become independents. It also won two by-elections on
Nov. 4 after having lost seven of 11 previous parliamentary and
state votes since 2008.  ‘In Shambles’  A two-thirds majority is required in parliament to pass
legislation, requiring a party without such a mandate to win
backing from independent or opposition lawmakers.  Opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  is facing dissent within
his own People’s Justice Party after former Law Minister Zaid
Ibrahim defected this week, having called on Anwar to step down.  “At the moment his party is in a shambles,” Mahathir
said.  He called Najib a “vast improvement” over his predecessor
 Abdullah Ahmad Badawi . Mahathir picked Abdullah to succeed him
when he retired in October 2003, before later leading calls for
him to resign after 2008 election results.  Abdullah led the National Front coalition, or Barisan
Nasional, to its slimmest election victory since independence in
the 2008 national vote, with Anwar’s opposition seizing control
of five of the country’s 12 states.  Economic Rebound  Najib, 57, succeeded Abdullah mid-term and has since guided
the country back from recession, unveiling an economic
transformation program in September aimed at stimulating
investment. Gross domestic product is forecast by the government
to  grow  7 percent this year, before expanding as much as 6
percent in 2011. The country’s benchmark stock  index  hit a
record high on Nov. 10.  Mahathir, who led the country between 1981 and 2003,
implemented construction projects that he sought to help the
former British colony build a national identity following
independence in 1957. They included the 88-floor Cesar Pelli-
designed  Petronas Twin Towers , which were the world’s tallest
when they opened in 1999.  Najib’s government identified $444 billion worth of
potential private sector-led projects as part of an economic
transformation program in September, including mass rail, a 100-
floor tower and plans to develop a nuclear energy industry.  Fired Deputy  Anwar served as Mahathir’s finance minister and deputy
until he was fired after opposing capital controls during the
Asian financial crisis in 1998. He was arrested a few weeks
later and imprisoned for almost six years on corruption and
sodomy charges.  Malaysia’s Federal Court quashed the sodomy conviction in
2004, though it upheld the corruption charge. The 63-year-old
Anwar is now de facto head of the People’s Justice Party, one of
three key parties in the opposition People’s Alliance coalition.
Anwar is fighting fresh sodomy charges and if jailed would not
be able to participate in elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
 Haslinda Amin  in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin in Tokyo at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net . 