-- Emera Sees Total C$6.2 Billion Investment in Newfoundland Power Project
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-11-18T15:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/nalcor-emera-agree-on-c-6-2-billion-power-project-update2-.html
Nalcor Energy and Nova Scotia’s
 Emera Inc.  agreed to invest C$6.2 billion ($6.1 billion) in a
hydroelectric project to ship power from Labrador’s Lower
Churchill River to customers in eastern Canada and New England.  Nalcor, which is owned by the province of Newfoundland and
Labrador, will build a C$2.9 billion, 824-megawatt generating
facility,  Jennifer Nicholson , a spokeswoman for Emera, said
today in a telephone interview from Halifax, Nova Scotia. The
companies will also build transmission cables linking Labrador
with the island of Newfoundland and Nova Scotia at a cost of
C$3.3 billion, Emera said in a statement.  The project will allow Newfoundland and Labrador to bypass
Quebec, whose state-owned utility,  Hydro-Quebec , has refused to
let Nalcor use its transmission network to export power to the
U.S. Nalcor has also contested a 1969 contract to supply power
to Hydro-Quebec because it says the accord, which runs until
2041, fails to account for rising electricity prices.  The agreement with Emera “is free of the geographic
stranglehold that Quebec has had for far too long on us,”
Newfoundland and Labrador Premier  Danny Williams  said today at a
televised press conference in the provincial capital of St.
John’s. “Today we are saying that Quebec will no longer
determine the fate of Newfoundland and Labrador and one of the
most attractive clean-energy projects in North America.”  2013 Start Date  Construction of the generating station and transmission
links will begin in 2013 once environmental and regulatory
approvals have been secured, with service starting in 2017,
Nicholson said.  Newfoundland and Labrador will derive enormous benefits
from the project, including thousands of jobs, Williams said
without being more specific.  Emera will contribute C$600 million to the construction of
a C$2.1 billion transmission link from Labrador to Newfoundland.
Emera will also build a C$1.2 billion subsea cable connecting
Newfoundland to Nova Scotia. The company’s  Nova Scotia Power 
unit will get 20 percent of the energy from the Muskrat Falls
facility for 35 years.  “This is an historic agreement for our region and
potentially transformational for our company,” Emera Chief
Executive Officer  Chris Huskilson  said. “It results in a
stronger regional system.”  Halifax-based Emera has about C$5.8 billion in assets,
including power plants in New Brunswick, Maine and
Massachusetts. Emera shares rose 64 cents, or 2.2 percent, to
C$30.27 at 10:05 a.m. on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  