-- Detonator Found in Bag Bound for Air Berlin Flight to Munich, Police Say
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-11-18T21:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/namibia-flight-bound-for-germany-halted-after-detonator-found-police-say.html
Germany’s Federal Criminal Office
sent a team of experts to Namibia after police in Windhoek
discovered a suspect device including a detonator in baggage
that was about to be loaded onto a plane bound for Munich.  The device contained batteries wired to a working clock and
a detonator inside a bag booked on an Airbus SAS LTU/Air Berlin
flight from the Namibian capital yesterday, the Federal Criminal
Office, or BKA, said today.  “Whether we’re dealing with an explosive device will only
be determined after the ongoing criminal investigation,” the
Wiesbaden-based BKA said in an e-mailed statement. The bag
didn’t contain explosives, CNN reported, citing an unidentified
person close to the investigation.  The probe comes as German authorities step up security at
airports and railway stations after receiving “concrete
indications” that Islamist extremists plan to stage an attack
in the country toward the end of this month.  “There are certainly signs that it could be a test,”
German Interior Minister  Thomas de Maiziere  said in an interview
on ZDF television today. “Whether there’s a link to the other
things we are discussing now, I don’t know.”  The minister said yesterday that the government was
compelled to issue a warning of a “new threat level” as a
result of intelligence from an unidentified foreign partner and
domestic Islamist groups.  Possible Terrorism  Germany is preparing for the possibility of terrorists
entering the country to commit suicide bombings, de Maiziere
said today in the ZDF interview.  The device in Windhoek was found in a laptop bag during a
routine check, Sebastian Ndeitunga, the inspector general of the
Namibian Police, said on Namibian Broadcasting Corp. radio. The
bag was sealed and unaccompanied, he said.  The police are investigating how the parcel ended up at the
airport and “we expect to finalize the investigation within a
week,” Ndeitunga said.  Yasmin Born, an  Air Berlin  spokeswoman, said the piece of
luggage wasn’t necessarily destined for the carrier’s plane
because it didn’t have a label and was sitting in a building
together with bags meant for other planes.  The passengers and luggage were subjected to further
searches before the Air Berlin flight was allowed to depart, the
BKA said. The plane arrived safely  in Munich  last night.  The BKA said it is sending a team from South Africa to help
the Namibian authorities and will dispatch further experts to
Windhoek.  Terror Alert  The German government’s warning followed a worldwide terror
alert last month after bombs were found in air-cargo shipments.
One bomb, packed inside a printer cartridge, was timed to
explode on a flight as it reached the U.S. East Coast.  That device, which originated in Yemen and was discovered
at the U.K.’s East Midlands airport on Oct. 29, passed through
Germany via Cologne/Bonn airport. A second bomb was found in
Dubai. Both were addressed to synagogues in Chicago.  The German public will begin to see an increased security
presence, though “there are a large number of measures they
won’t be able to see,” de Maiziere said yesterday.  “There is cause for concern, but no cause for hysteria,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 