-- Natural Gas Futures Extend Decline in New York After Inventory Increase
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-11-18T20:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/natural-gas-futures-extend-decline-in-new-york-after-inventory-increase.html
Natural gas futures declined after a
government report showed that U.S. stockpiles advanced to a
record for a second straight week.  Gas inventories rose 3 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Nov. 12 to 3.843 trillion cubic feet, the Energy Department said
today. The increase left stockpiles 9.3 percent above the five-
year average level for the week, signaling ample supplies for
the cold-weather months, when demand for the fuel peaks.  “It was a pretty bearish report,” said  Stephen Schork ,
the president of the Schork Group, an energy advisory company in
Villanova, Pennsylvania. “Commercial and industrial demand is
still lagging. We’re going to need to see a significant uptick
in weather-related demand to drive prices higher.”  Natural gas for December delivery fell 2.3 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $4.007 per million British thermal units
on the New York Mercantile Exchange after dropping as low as
$3.853 per million Btu earlier in the day. The futures have
tumbled 28 percent this year and have risen 5.5 percent in the
first four days of this week.  The stockpile increase was smaller than the five-year
average gain for the week of 18 billion cubic feet, department
data show. Analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg showed an
expected expansion of 8 billion. A separate survey of Bloomberg
users released five minutes before the government figures showed
an addition to supplies of 3 billion cubic feet.  Gas stockpiles may total 1.776 trillion cubic feet at the
end of the winter heating season in March, up about 114 billion
cubic feet from a year earlier, according to  Energy Department
estimates .  Gas Output  U.S. natural gas production increased 1.6 percent in August
as output from wells in the Gulf of Mexico and Louisiana gained,
the Energy Department  reported  on Oct. 29.  Production, including gas used for repressuring or
quantities vented or flared, rose to 72.38 billion cubic feet a
day from a revised 71.27 billion in July, the department’s
Energy Information Administration said in a monthly report known
as EIA-914.  Temperatures may be above-normal in parts of the Midwest,
South and mid-Atlantic in December, January and February,
according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.  The Northeast has an equal chance of above-
normal and below-normal temperatures during that period.  ‘Record Level’  “For natural gas, if we have a warmer-than-expected
winter, it could be extremely bearish,” said  Chris Jarvis ,
president of Caprock Risk Management LLC, an energy trading and
advisory firm in Hampton Falls, New Hampshire. “If that
happens, we could be at a record level going into the storage
injection season.”  Colder-than-normal weather is likely in the central and
western U.S. from Nov. 23 through Nov. 27, according to MDA
Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville, Maryland.
Normal temperatures are forecast for East Coast during that
period, MDA said. Temperatures may be below-normal across most
of the eastern half of the country from Nov. 28 through Dec. 2,
MDA said.  The high temperature in Chicago on Nov. 25 may be 31
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 1 Celsius), 12 degrees below normal,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.  U.S. heating demand will average 11 percent above normal
from Nov. 24 through Nov. 28, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist
with Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri, in a report today.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Wholesale natural gas at the benchmark Henry Hub in Erath,
Louisiana, gained 11.39 cents, or 3 percent, to $3.8872 per
million Btu on the Intercontinental Exchange.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
297,377 as of 2:42 p.m., compared with a three-month average of
267,000. Volume was 314,234 yesterday. Open interest was 775,156
contracts, compared with the three-month average of 808,000. The
exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open interest
and full volume data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  