-- Natural Gas Falls in New York as Government Data May Show Inventory Gain
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-11-18T15:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/natural-gas-falls-in-new-york-as-government-data-may-show-inventory-gain.html
Natural gas futures fell before a
government report that may show an inventory increase, adding to
record supplies.  The Energy Department may say that 8 billion cubic feet of
gas were added to storage last week, according to the median of
27 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year
average increase for the week is 18 billion.  “Any build in inventories at all today is going to give us
a headline saying natural gas storage rose to fresh record
levels,” said  Peter Beutel , the president of Cameron Hanover
Inc., a trading-advisory company in New Canaan, Connecticut. “I
don’t think there’s any way we’re going to have a withdrawal.”  Natural gas for December delivery fell 4.7 cents, or 1.2
percent, to $3.983 per million British thermal units at 9:49
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gas has declined 29
percent this year.  Gas  inventories  rose 19 billion cubic feet in the week
ended Nov. 5 to a record 3.84 trillion cubic feet, the Energy
Department said last week.  Stockpiles of the fuel may total 1.776 trillion cubic feet
at the end of the winter heating season in March, up about 114
billion cubic feet from a year earlier, according to  Energy
Department estimates .  Colder-than-normal weather is likely in the central and
western U.S. from Nov. 23 through Nov. 27, according to MDA
Federal Inc.’s EarthSat Energy Weather in Rockville, Maryland.
Temperatures may be below-normal across most of the eastern half
of the country from Nov. 28 through Dec. 2, MDA said.  The high temperature in Chicago on Nov. 25 may be 31
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 1 Celsius), 12 degrees below normal,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.  U.S. heating demand will average 11 percent above normal
from Nov. 24 through Nov. 28, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist
with Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri, in a report today.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  