-- NetApp Shares Advance After Analysts Raise Estimates
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2010-11-18T21:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/netapp-shares-gain-after-analysts-raise-estimates-for-data-storage-maker.html
NetApp Inc. , a maker of data-storage
products, jumped 7.9 percent on the Nasdaq Stock Market after
analysts recommended the stock, allaying concern that growth was
slowing at the company.  Paul Mansky  at Canaccord Genuity raised his rating to
“buy” from “hold,” and at least five analysts increased
their targets for the stock price over the next year. NetApp
climbed $3.87 to $53.12, the biggest gain in almost six months.
It had advanced 43 percent this year before today.  NetApp  is the third-biggest seller of external computer-
storage systems -- technology that helps companies store
information more efficiently while letting them access the data
from anywhere. The company remains a “fast-growing, well-
positioned” competitor with a cost-effective product, said
 Brian Marshall , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco.  While the company expects its operating profit margins to
drop this quarter from the previous period, they remain above
its targets, Chief Executive Officer  Tom Georgens  said yesterday
on a conference call. NetApp also is taking market share from
competitors, he said.  “We have been gaining share at rates faster than any time
in the last decade,” Georgens said on the call. “We expect to
continue to gain share in good markets or bad.”  Earlier Drop  NetApp stock had declined yesterday after the company’s
profit forecast missed analysts’ estimates. Excluding some
costs, earnings will be 48 cents to 50 cents this quarter, the
Sunnyvale, California-based company said in a statement.
Analysts had projected 51 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales will be $1.24 billion to $1.29 billion, in line
with  estimates .  EMC Corp., the largest maker of storage, announced plans
this week to buy Isilon Systems Inc. for $2.25 billion -- an
effort to catch up in a market where NetApp has made gains.
NetApp ranks behind EMC and  International Business Machines
Corp.  in total external-storage sales, according to IDC.  In NetApp’s fiscal  second quarter , net income rose 72
percent to $164.6 million, or 42 cents a share, from $95.7
million, or 27 cents, a year earlier. Excluding some costs,
profit was 52 cents a share, topping the 49-cent average
estimate of  analysts . Sales climbed 33 percent to $1.21 billion
in the period, which ended Oct. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
 Nick Turner  in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  