-- New York City Will Cut Workforce by 10,000 to Narrow $3.3 Billion Deficit
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-11-18T22:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/new-york-city-will-cut-workforce-by-10-000-to-narrow-budget-gap.html
New York City, facing a $3.3 billion
deficit in next year’s budget, will cut its workforce by more
than 10,000 over the next year-and-a-half, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s budget office reported.  More than 6,200 workers will be fired, and the remaining
cuts will be accomplished by attrition, the mayor’s office said
today in a report. The city, which employs more than 300,000
people, will reduce the number of workers by 2,100 in the
current fiscal year, which ends June 30, and by about 8,200 in
fiscal 2012, the mayor’s office said.  Personnel cuts are needed to deal with pension costs
expected to rise by more than 15 percent next year, to $8.3
billion, while city revenue increases by 5 percent to about $41
billion, said Budget Director  Mark Page . Pension payments will
equal as much as 20 percent of the city’s tax revenue, he said.  “Everything’s driven by the pension costs,” said  Stephen Goldsmith , Bloomberg’s deputy mayor for operations. “We’re
struggling and scraping to come up with $1.5 billion in
additional savings and at the same time we’re making $8 billion
in payments for pre-existing obligations that are coming off the
back of the existing workforce.”  The job cuts would save about $1.6 billion over the next 18
months. The deficit will be lowered only to $2.4 billion from
$3.3 billion because of the added costs created by the increased
pension expenses and the loss of federal stimulus money,
Goldsmith said.  ‘Significant Challenge’  “We face a significant challenge for next year as federal
stimulus dollars run dry and the city still suffers from the
impacts of the national economic downturn,” Bloomberg said in a
news release. “We simply cannot afford the size of our current
workforce.”  Public-safety agencies will lose 1,376 workers though
attrition, including 350 police department civilians in each
year. The school system, which employs 135,000, was asked to
eliminate 6,166 positions, including at least 4,278 through
dismissals.  Lillian Roberts , executive director of District Council 37
of the  American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees , the city’s largest public-worker union, said the
mayor should focus on increasing revenue. Firings in the Finance
Department would cost the city money by allowing tax revenue to
go uncollected, she said.  “Everyone should be asked to pay their fair share,” she
said in an e-mail. “The city’s workers should not be asked to
bear the burden of this financial crisis.”  Parking Rates  Parking rates will increase from $2.50 an hour to $3 on
most Manhattan streets with meters. The city will seek $12
million from the federal government to reimburse its security
costs for the United Nations. Some firehouses may be closed at
night to save $15 million, and the Fire Department will cut 100
administrative positions to save about $6 million or more a
year, the budget office said.  Although the city’s unemployment rate dropped to 9.2
percent in October from 9.3 percent and job growth has outpaced
the U.S. and state, tax revenue is about $4 billion below pre-
recession levels, forcing the cutbacks, Bloomberg has said.  The city, which has a projected $65 billion budget for
fiscal 2012, has fired 1,500 employees in agency spending cuts
during the past 18 months, said  Marc Lavorgna , deputy mayoral
press secretary.  Hiring Freeze  Bloomberg ordered a hiring freeze in September, directing
most agency heads to reduce spending by 5.4 percent this fiscal
year and 8 percent next year. Departments of public safety,
sanitation and education must trim current budgets by 2.7
percent in fiscal 2011, and 4 percent next year. The job cuts
announced today are in response to that directive.  Cuts will affect city hospitals, services to seniors,
libraries and cultural centers, said a city official familiar
with the plan who spoke before the report was made public.  City Comptroller  John Liu , speaking at a municipal-bond
forum today, said of the mayor’s announced cuts, “Obviously,
that’s not going to be enough. We’ll see what happens in the
next few months.”  Later, in a prepared statement, Liu said the mayor should
demand cost-concessions from private contractors and reduce
reliance on them instead of city employees.  “Agencies should be asking whether all contracts are
necessary,” he said.  In October, Standard & Poor’s assigned a AA rating to the
city’s debt, its third-highest investment grade, saying New York
has historically moved swiftly to address projected budget gaps.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 