-- New Zealand Kiwifruit Rescue Package May Not Be Enough, Zespri Chief Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2010-11-18T23:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/new-zealand-kiwifruit-rescue-package-may-not-be-enough-zespri-chief-says.html
The New Zealand government’s rescue
package for kiwifruit growers may not be enough to save the
industry from a spreading bacterial disease, according to the
world’s largest marketer of the fruit.  “I suspect NZ$50 million isn’t going to do this,”  Zespri
Group Ltd .’s Chief Executive Officer Lain Jager told growers
yesterday in the North Island city of Tauranga. “There’s a lot
more water to flow under the bridge.”  More than 1,000 growers met yesterday across the Bay of
Plenty area, where most of the infected orchards are located, to
discuss the government’s NZ$25 million ($19 million) financial
aid plan that would be matched by the nation’s kiwifruit
industry. All but two growers voted to support the proposal and
industry leaders will meet later today to sign off on the
package, Jager said in an interview in Tauranga.  New Zealand is seeking to control one of the biggest
threats yet to its NZ$1.4 billion kiwifruit industry after the
vine disease Pseudomonas syringae pv actinidiae, discovered 13
days ago, spread to 51 orchards around the country. Some growers
will be forced to cull affected vines and lose up to three years
of production, Biosecurity Minister  David Carter  told reporters
yesterday.  Carter ruled out any further government assistance for the
industry beyond the proposed support package and said growers
are likely to suffer further losses of about NZ$25 million over
the next two to three years.  New Zealand is the biggest kiwifruit grower after China and
Italy, accounting for about 21 percent of global production, and
earned about NZ$1.4 billion from the fruit in the year ended
March 31, according to  Zespri .  -- With assistance from  Chris Bourke  in Wellington. Editor:  Ed Johnson ,  Malcolm Scott   To contact the reporter for this story:
 Phoebe Sedgman  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  