-- New Republican Governors Promise After Elections Cuts Are `Going to Hurt'
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/new-republican-governors-promise-after-elections-cuts-are-going-to-hurt-.html
The nation’s Republican governors and
governors-to-be met for the first time since the Nov. 2 election
that gave their party control of 29 statehouses, promising to
address budget deficits by chopping the size of government.  “Why do you exist?”  Pennsylvania  Governor-elect  Tom Corbett  said that he would ask every state agency when he spoke
yesterday at the Republican Governors Association meeting in San
Diego.  New Mexico  Governor-elect  Susana Martinez  said she would
reduce the public payroll by 5 percent through attrition to deal
with a deficit she said recently nearly doubled to $452 million
on $5.6 billion in revenue next year.  Democrats held 26 governorships before the election. The
Republican victories increased the party’s influence before the
2012 presidential election and gave it more sway over the
redrawing of congressional districts and in policies of states
trying to recover from the recession.  South Carolina  Governor-elect  Nikki Haley , a state
representative, said she beat candidates with more name
recognition by telling voters that she would reduce the size of
government.  “We need to be honest and say, ‘This is going to hurt,’”
said Haley, when asked how she will explain cuts. “We are
heading into a terrible budget year.”  Thirty-nine states have projected budget gaps that total
$112 billion for fiscal 2012,  according  to the nonpartisan
Center on Budget Policy and Priorities. Once all states have
prepared estimates, the deficits are likely to be a collective
$140 billion, the center says.  Currying Favor  The governors appeared on a panel called the “The New Face
of the GOP” on the first day of the two-day meeting. Nearly 900
people, including corporate lobbyists, attended this year’s
event, up from 550 last year.  Brian Sandoval, a former federal judge who was the first
person in  Nevada  history to defeat a sitting governor in a
primary, said he will address inefficiencies in education
spending by allowing parents to choose public schools,
implementing merit pay for teachers who boost test scores and
lengthening the time required for teachers to get tenure from
the current one year.  Ohio  Governor-elect  John Kasich , who was chairman of the
House budget committee when the U.S had a budget surplus in the
1990s, said he was launching a website called  FixOhioNow.com  to
solicit money-saving ideas.  Mary Fallin , the newly elected governor of  Oklahoma , said
during a news conference that Republicans need to concentrate on
“restoring the economy,” while balancing budgets without
raising taxes.  “We have a two-year time window, basically until the 2012
elections, to prove ourselves, if we’re going to do what we
talked about doing,” Fallin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in San Diego at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .
 Tim Jones  in San Diego at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  