-- New York City May Cut Assumed Rate of Return on Pension Assets, Liu Says
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   W i l l i a m   G l a s g a l l
-- 2010-11-19T00:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/new-york-city-may-cut-assumed-rate-of-return-on-pension-assets-liu-says.html
New York City may reduce the assumed
return on its $100.5 billion of pension investments from the
current 8 percent rate, Comptroller  John Liu  said today.  The move would increase the amount of money the city must
contribute to its five public retirement plans even as it faces
a $2.4 billion  budget deficit  next year, Liu said after a speech
at the Union League Club in Manhattan. The city’s pension costs
are expected to rise more than 15 percent next year, to $8.3
billion, budget director  Mark Page  said today. That’s about 20
percent of municipal tax revenue, he said.  “The city has maintained an 8 percent assumed rate for a
long time,” Liu said. “It’s fair to say that the assumption
will be lowered at some point.”  Public-pension funds from New York state to Illinois are
cutting their expected returns amid market losses and in the
face of a sluggish economy. New York state’s $132.8 billion
retirement fund lowered its target to 7.5 percent from 8
percent, while the Illinois State Employees’ Retirement System
cut its rate to 7.75 percent from 8.5 percent, Tim Blair, the
system’s executive secretary, said in a telephone interview.  In the 10 years from July 1999 to June 2009, New York’s
pensions returned 2.09 percent, according to the city’s
comprehensive annual  financial report  for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2009.  Trustees’ Approval  Liu didn’t say when the change might occur or what the new
assumed rate might be. The decrease must be approved by the
trustees of the five funds for civil employees, police officers,
firefighters, teachers and school administrators as well as the
state Legislature. The plans cover 334,000 city employees and
237,000 retirees and beneficiaries.  Liu’s prediction of a more conservative investment outlook
follows remarks by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  last month calling
the pensions’ assumed rate of return unrealistically high.  New York City is seeking more power to set pension benefits
for workers as retirement costs grow.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  