-- News Corp.'s MySpace Deepens Ties to Facebook With `Mash Up' Account Links
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-11-18T21:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/news-corp-s-myspace-users-can-mash-up-accounts-with-facebook.html
News Corp.’ s MySpace is adding more
features from Facebook Inc., owner of the world’s biggest social
network, in an effort to draw users and boost ad sales.  MySpace subscribers may now coordinate accounts using
Facebook “Mash Up,” a service that lets Facebook users export
their preferences, MySpace CEO  Mike Jones  said today in an
online press conference. There is no financial component to the
relationship, Jones said.  “Mash Up” allows MySpace to use information from its
users’ Facebook accounts to make better recommendations on
subjects such as music, movies and TV shows. The service becomes
available today. MySpace is adding more Facebook features as
 Chase Carey , chief operating officer of New York-based News
Corp., pushes the website to become profitable.  “It’s kind of a ‘Hail Mary,’”  David Bank , an analyst at
RBC Capital Markets in New York, said in an interview ahead of
the announcement. “Trying these radical ideas is smart because
the past playbook hasn’t worked that well. It’s time for very
radical changes.”  MySpace’s worldwide advertising sales will shrink 37
percent to $297 million in 2011 from $470 million in 2009,
eMarketer.com forecasts. During the same period, worldwide ad
sales at closely held Facebook will more than double to $1.76
billion, according to the New York-based Internet researcher.  In August, Beverly Hills, California-based MySpace began
letting users sync comments and others actions on the site with
their Facebook profiles, and 1 million users have activated the
service, Jones said. “Mash Up” expands the information sharing
with Palo Alto, California-based Facebook.  Turnaround Mode  “There will be a lot of people who use this to customize
their MySpace experience,” Jones said. “And we’re excited
about what that means.” He declined to predict how it may
affect Web traffic.  MySpace is rebuilding and redefining itself to improve its
financial performance, Carey said on News Corp.’s Nov. 3
earnings  conference call .  The Facebook accord may help News Corp. stabilize MySpace
and prepare the site for a sale,  David Joyce , an analyst at
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, said in an e-mail.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Rupert Murdoch , gained 14 cents to $14.39 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares
have climbed 5.1 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ; 