-- Nigerian Forces Free 19 Hostages Held by Militants
-- B y   T o n y   T a m u n o   a n d   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-11-18T14:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/nigerian-forces-free-19-hostages-held-by-militants-in-oil-rich-niger-delta.html
Nigerian troops freed 19 hostages
held by militants in the oil-rich Niger River delta yesterday
and handed them over to their employers at a military base in
the port city of Port Harcourt, a military commander said.  “Military operations will continue” against militant
groups, Major General Charles Omoregie, commander of the task
force in charge of security in the region, told reporters today
in Port Harcourt.  Those freed include two Americans, two Frenchmen, two
Indonesians and a Canadian seized in an attack on Afren Plc’s
Okoro oil field on Nov. 7, according to police spokesman Akin
Fakorede. Among the others are eight Nigerian employees of  Exxon
Mobil Corp.  abducted from the offshore Oso platform on Nov. 3
and four workers for  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ’s local unit.  “It was shocking and devastating,” Robert Croke, the
Canadian seized in the attack on Afren, said at the handover
ceremony in Port Harcourt. “I don’t want anybody to have the
same experience.”  The southern Niger delta, which is home to Nigeria’s oil
and gas industry, has been hit by a surge of violence in recent
months after a period of relative calm that followed a
government amnesty in 2009 and the disarming of thousands of
militant fighters. In response, the Nigerian military ordered an
offensive against rebels last week.  Oil Producer  Nigeria is Africa’s biggest oil producer and the fifth-
largest source of U.S. oil imports. Shell, Exxon Mobil, Chevron
Corp., Total SA and Eni SpA run joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump most of the
West African nation’s oil.  Attacks by armed groups in the delta cut Nigeria’s oil
production by more than 28 percent from 2006 to 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Following last year’s amnesty, the Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta, the main militant group in the
region, refused to disarm, saying its demands for local control
of oil revenue weren’t met. MEND claimed responsibility for the
attack on Afren and Exxon Mobil.  Another armed group, which identified itself as the Niger
Delta Liberation Force under the leadership of General John
Togo, also denounced the amnesty, saying on Nov. 14 that it will
target oil installations in fresh attacks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Tamuno  in Port Harcourt via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Dulue Mbachu in Lagos at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 