-- Nordic Currencies Advance as Irish Aid Discussions Boost Demand for Risk
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-11-18T13:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/nordic-currencies-advance-as-irish-aid-discussions-boost-demand-for-risk.html
Sweden’s krona advanced the most in
two weeks against the dollar as speculation Ireland will accept
a bailout to help fund its banks boosted investor demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The krona climbed against all 16 of its most-traded peers
after data showed Swedish unemployment fell last month at a
faster pace than economists estimated. Norway’s krone was the
next-best performing currency, appreciating for a second day
against the dollar after a run of eight straight drops, as
stocks advanced and government bonds slid.  “In sympathy with the rest of risky assets, the two
currencies are improving,” said  David Deddouche , a foreign-
exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in Paris.
“Unemployment in Sweden is a bit better. The big-factor global
growth prospects are going to improve.”  The krona strengthened as much as 1.2 percent to 6.8439 per
dollar, the biggest gain since Nov. 4, and was at 6.6143 as of
12:50 p.m. in London. It appreciated 0.1 percent to 9.3571 per
euro. Norway’s krone gained 0.9 percent to 5.9766 per dollar.  Irish central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said today he
expects the country to ask for a “substantial” bailout as
European Union and International Monetary Fund officials
traveled to Dublin to discuss possible aid.  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index  of shares rose 1.2 percent.
Benchmark German bunds fell, sending the yield eight basis
points higher to 2.68 percent.  Swedish Unemployment  Sweden’s non-seasonally adjusted jobless rate fell to 7.5
percent in October, from 7.8 percent the previous month,
Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden said on its website today.
Economists estimated a drop to 7.6 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Karolina Ekholm , deputy governor of Sweden’s Riksbank, said
in a speech published on the central bank’s website today that
there was a need to prevent currency appreciation happening so
quickly that inflation drops “far below the target.”  Norway may become Europe’s next investor haven as the
region’s fiscal turmoil raises the appeal of debt and currency
markets in an economy with the world’s smallest default risk.  The Nordic country’s budget surplus equalled 10.3 percent
of gross domestic product last year as oil revenue and the
lowest unemployment in Europe protected government finances from
the drain suffered by deficit-laden countries such as Greece and
Ireland. Norwegian bonds with maturities of one to 10 years
returned 6.197 percent this year, compared with 4.747 percent
for similar German debt and 2.931 percent for Swiss bonds.  “Because Norway is the best sovereign credit in the world,
it’s such a safe haven,” said  Par Magnusson , chief Nordic
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, in an interview.
The current “risk aversion is euro-centric,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  