-- NYU Withdraws Plan for Tower, Then Suggests Another for Greenwich Village
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/nyu-withdraws-application-for-fourth-tower-in-washington-square-park-block.html
New York University ’s battle with
Greenwich Village preservationists will continue after the
school changed a building site without switching neighborhoods.  NYU abandoned plans to add a fourth tower in a university-
owned complex, saying it instead wants to construct a building
down the block. Architect I.M. Pei, whose firm designed the
three University Village buildings in Manhattan’s Greenwich
Village, joined the opposition to the fourth tower, prompting
the school to withdraw plans with the city’s  Landmarks
Preservation Commission ,  John Beckman , an NYU spokesman, said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  The 38-story tower would have provided space for housing
for faculty or students, and possibly a university-owned hotel.
The Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation will
continue to oppose NYU’s plans because the character of the area
would change too much, said Andrew Berman, executive director of
the neighborhood group. The society would prefer for NYU to
expand in the Wall Street area, Berman said.  “We still have a huge fight on our hands for the rest of
the plan,” Berman said in a telephone interview. “It would
overwhelm the village by shoehorning 2 million square feet of
space around Washington Square Park.”  NYU will seek to construct a building 17 to 20 stories
high, on the nearby alternative site now occupied by a
supermarket, Beckman said.  The revised plan removes the need for clearance by
landmarks officials because the new site doesn’t have protected
status, Beckman said.  NYU, the largest private, nonprofit university by
enrollment in the U.S., wants to  expand its campus  by 40 percent
by 2031, with about half of the additions in the Greenwich
Village neighborhood, according to the school’s master plan.  More than 43,400 students attend NYU, which was founded in
1831. The university counts among its graduates former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  and former New York Mayor
 Rudolph Giuliani .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York   jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 