-- Obama Says Nuclear Treaty With Russia `Imperative' for National Security
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-18T16:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/obama-recruits-baker-kissinger-to-press-for-arms-treaty-vote.html
President  Barack Obama  said Congress
has “no higher priority” than ratifying a stalled nuclear arms
treaty with Russia before the end of the year.  “It is a national security imperative that the United
States ratify the new Start treaty this year,” Obama said today
after a White House meeting with current and former top defense
and foreign policy officials on the Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty.  He called the agreement a “cornerstone” of the U.S.
relationship with Russia.  Obama has enlisted former advisers from Democratic and
Republican administrations in his bid to keep up pressure on the
Senate to ratify the treaty. Among them at today’s session were
 James Baker , President  George H.W. Bush ’s secretary of
state;  Henry Kissinger , secretary of state under Presidents
 Richard Nixon  and  Gerald Ford ; and  Madeleine Albright , President
 Bill Clinton ’s secretary of state.  Obama and Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed the
accord in April. The president’s push for a vote suffered a
setback this week when Arizona Senator  Jon Kyl , the chamber’s
second-ranking Republican and one of his party’s leading voices
on nuclear-weapons policy, said the issues are too complex to
resolve by year’s end.  Postponing consideration of the treaty until 2011, when the
Democratic majority in the Senate shrinks following Republican
victories in the midterm elections, may make it more difficult
to win approval. Ratification requires a two-thirds majority in
the Senate.  ‘Confident’ of Ratification  Obama said he was “confident” that the treaty will be
ratified before the end of this year’s congressional session.  “This new Start treaty is completely in line with a
tradition of bipartisan cooperation on this issue,” Obama said.
“This is not a Democratic concept, this is not a Republican
concept, this is a concept of American national security.”  The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee,
Massachusetts Democrat  John Kerry , and the panel’s top
Republican,  Richard Lugar  of Indiana, were at the White House
meeting, which was led by Vice President  Joe Biden , a former
chairman of the foreign relations panel. Obama said Biden will
lead administration efforts on ratification.  Former defense secretaries  William Cohen  and  William Perry ,
who both served in the Clinton administration, were at the
meeting as well.  NATO Meeting  Obama later today travels to Lisbon, Portugal, for a summit
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which Medvedev also
will attend. Kyl and other Republicans have said that the treaty
would hamper U.S. missile defenses, one of the subjects for the
NATO meeting. The administration has said the treaty will have
no impact on plans to deploy such a defense system.  One of the biggest sticking points for ratification has
been funding for improvements in the U.S. nuclear arsenal. Kyl
has said the amount proposed by Obama isn’t sufficient.  The administration has agreed to spend more than $85
billion over the next decade to modernize the system, a $4.1
billion increase over the plan Obama gave to Congress in May.  “This level of funding is unprecedented since the end of
the Cold War,” an administration fact sheet says.  Search for Consensus  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who also was at the
White House session, said yesterday after meeting with senators
that a “bipartisan consensus” on the issue may be emerging.  “We’ve had very encouraging discussions,” she said.  The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral  Michael Mullen , said he is “very comfortable” with the treaty’s impact
on U.S. military capabilities and its verification procedures.  Treaty opponents include  John Bolton , the former U.S.
ambassador to the United Nations under Republican President
 George W. Bush . Bolton says the treaty confers more benefits on
Russia than on the U.S.  Because budget constraints will force reductions in
Russia’s nuclear arsenal regardless of whether the treaty takes
effect, Bolton and other opponents say U.S. ratification of the
accord will unnecessarily preserve nuclear parity between the
two powers.  Treaty supporters, including  Lugar , say the accord will
allow the two sides to resume verification of each other’s
arsenals, a process halted when the previous treaty expired
almost a year ago.  The monitoring, including site visits, is intended to give
both countries confidence that the other side isn’t secretly
trying to acquire a crushing nuclear superiority.  The new START agreement limits each side’s strategic
warheads to no more than 1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously,
and sets a maximum of 800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  Each of the last three arms-reduction treaties was ratified
with more than 90 votes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  