-- OECD Cuts Global Growth Outlook for Next Year to 4.2%, Predicts `Softspot'
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-11-18T13:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/oecd-reduces-global-economic-growth-outlook-predicts-softspot-in-2011.html
The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development cut its global growth forecast for
next year, predicting a “soft spot” as stimulus spending fades
before investment spurs a revival in 2012.  The global economy will expand 4.2 percent next year
instead of the 4.5 percent predicted in May, the Paris-based
organization said today in its semi-annual Economic Outlook.
Growth will recover to 4.6 percent in 2012, it said.  “We have a soft patch, yes, but we don’t think it’s going
to last long,” OECD Secretary General  Angel Gurria  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview from Paris. “We’re going to
recover in the second half of 2011 and have a better 2012.”  The OECD, which advises its 33 member governments on
policy, said house-price declines in the U.S. and the U.K.,
concerns about the sustainability of sovereign debt levels
elsewhere and growing trade imbalances around the world pose
risks to the recovery. Following clashes between Group of 20
leaders last week in Seoul, the organization warned that
uncoordinated policy initiatives could hinder growth.  “There are significant risks on the downside,” OECD Chief
Economist  Pier Carlo Padoan  wrote in the report. “Global
imbalances remain wide and in some cases have started widening
again, and there are rising concerns that they may threaten the
recovery.”  U.S. Economy  Among the most marked slowdowns is in the U.S. The world’s
largest  economy  will expand 2.7 percent this year, instead of
the 3.2 percent previously predicted. Growth will decelerate
further in 2011, when gross domestic product will increase just
2.2 percent, and then pick up again with a 3.1 percent gain in
2012, the OECD said.  The 16-member euro area is set to expand 1.7 percent this
year and next, with growth picking up to 2 percent in 2012.  “The pace of recovery is likely to be muted, due to
ongoing private-sector balance-sheet adjustments, necessary
fiscal consolidation and prolonged adjustment to large
imbalances in some countries,” the OECD said of the region.  The organization urged the European Central Bank to support
the recovery throughout next year. “Monetary policy stimulus
should largely remain in place during 2011 and non-standard
measures should continue to be wound down as conditions allow,”
according to the report.  German Growth  In Germany, output will grow 3.5 percent this year and 2.5
percent next year, meaning GDP will have recovered all the
losses of the recession during 2011. The expansion in
neighboring France will be less robust, with GDP gaining 1.6
percent in both years.  France’s “fiscal stance will need to be tight in 2011,”
the OECD said. With President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s increase in the
retirement age passed, “cutting spending in a sustainable way
while raiding long-term potential output could be achieved
through reforms of health care and public administration.”  In Spain, output will probably drop 0.2 percent this year
before gaining 0.9 percent in 2011. Portugal’s GDP will expand
1.5 percent in 2010 before falling 0.2 percent next year.
Portugal needs to “strictly implement” deficit-cutting plans
and “promptly correct any slippages” to reduce financing
costs, the OECD said.  Praise for U.K.  Greece’s economy will shrink 3.9 percent this year and 2.7
percent next year. After three years of declines, output will
turn around in 2012, growing 0.5 percent, the OECD predicted.  In the U.K., Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government won
praise for plans to attack the  budget shortfall . The “ambitious
medium-term plan has significantly reduced fiscal risks” and
may support growth in the long term, the OECD said. U.K. output
will grow 1.8 percent in 2010 and 1.7 percent in 2012.  Among major developed economies, Japan will expand 3.7
percent this year, 1.7 percent next year and 1.3 percent in
2012.  “Deflation is projected to continue, with unemployment
remaining above its pre-crisis level,” the OECD said of Japan.
“With gross public debt projected to top 200 percent of GDP in
2011, more ambitious consolidation than currently planned for in
2011 and 2012 would be warned. At a minimum, it would be
necessary to avoid additional fiscal stimulus and contain
government spending in 2011-2012.”  Emerging Markets  In Canada, where output is set to expand 3 percent in 2010
and 2.3 percent next year, the government should start reducing
deficits and the central bank should be able to consider further
interest-rate increases next year, the OECD said.  Emerging-market economies continue to lead global growth,
with GDP expected to expand about 10 percent both this year and
next in China and about 9 percent and 8 percent in India, the
OECD said.  While the organization expects China’s current account
surplus to stabilize at about 5.5 percent of output, the
government should allow the yuan to strengthen further, the OECD
advised.  “The stability of the domestic economy would be enhanced
if the exchange-rate policy were more oriented to allowing an
appreciation against a basket of currencies,” according to the
report. “In addition, government spending should continue to be
reoriented to social objectives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  