-- Oil Rebounds From Four-Week Low as Irish Bailout Nears, U.S. Supplies Drop
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-18T13:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/oil-rebounds-from-four-week-low-as-irish-bailout-nears-u-s-supplies-drop.html
Oil rebounded from a four-week low
as the growing prospect that Ireland will get a rescue bailout
from the European Union stoked gains for stocks and commodities
around the world.  Crude rose as much as 2.1 percent, snapping four days of
declines, after Ireland’s central bank governor said he expects
the country to seek a bailout from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund. Yesterday’s Energy Department
report showed crude  inventories  unexpectedly dropped the most
since August 2009.  “The situation in Europe looks like it’s going towards a
solution,” said Sintje Diek, an analyst with HSH Nordbank in
Hamburg. “There will be a rescue for Ireland, and that’s good
news for the euro. Fundamentals are on the side of investors;
inventories are going down.”  Crude for December delivery advanced as much as $1.70 to
$82.14 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was at
$81.81 at 1:01 p.m. London time. Brent crude for January
settlement rose as much as $1.72, or 2.1 percent, to $85 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The New York contract, which expires tomorrow, fell
yesterday to $80.44, the lowest settlement since Oct. 19. The
more actively traded January future was up $1.35 at $82.39.  Crude slumped yesterday amid speculation that China, the
world’s biggest energy-consuming country, will raise interest
rates to cool economic growth. Prices also dropped on concern
Europe’s debt crisis is worsening. Oil has fallen 4 percent
since last week and is up 2.7 percent this year.  Irish Bailout  Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said in an
interview with state broadcaster RTE today he expects the
country to ask for a bailout from the EU and the IMF worth
“tens of billions” of euros to rescue its banks.  “If these talks were to result in a substantial
contingency capital funding” pool that didn’t need to be drawn
down, that “would be a very desirable outcome,” Finance
Minister  Brian Lenihan  said in the Irish parliament in Dublin
today. He said no agreement has yet been reached.  Gasoline inventories  slipped  2.66 million barrels to 207.7
million, the lowest level since the week ended Oct. 16, 2009,
the Energy Department report showed. They were  projected  to
slide 750,000 barrels, according to the Bloomberg News survey.
Imports were the lowest since January 2004.  Stockpiles of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, fell 1.11 million barrels to 158.8
million. They were  forecast  to decline 2 million barrels.  The Energy Department report showed crude  imports tumbled 
2.8 percent to 7.86 million barrels a day, the lowest level
since December.  “It’s good to see stockpiles sliding because that’s giving
a sense of relief that something’s happening” with oil
fundamentals, said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “It seems to be the
start of a trend. It could be that consumption is improving.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 Christian.s@bloomberg.net 
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  