-- Old GM Creditors Get $5 Billion in IPO, Plus Warrants for More
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2010-11-19T18:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/old-gm-s-creditors-make-5-billion-in-stock-offering-are-entitled-to-more.html
Creditors of  General Motors Co. ’s
bankrupt predecessor, who made about $5 billion in the
 automaker ’s $20 billion initial public offering, might be able
to buy millions more new shares for as little as a third of
yesterday’s  price .  GM’s bankrupt estate was issued 150 million shares, or 10
percent of the new company’s stock, to help pay creditors
claiming an estimated $37 billion. At yesterday’s closing price
of $34.19, that stock is worth about $5.1 billion.  So-called Old GM has warrants that entitle it to buy about
273 million shares at between $10 and about $18 each, according
to the company’s Nov. 17  filing  with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. If the shares rise, creditors stand to make
even more.  “The stock was certainly worth more than almost anyone
thought at the time,” said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer at
Greenebaum Doll & McDonald PLLC in Louisville, Kentucky.  Old GM filed for bankruptcy in June 2009. New GM’s
Chevrolet Volt was just named Motor Trend Magazine’s 2011 Car of
the Year.  GM fell 34 cents to $33.86 at 11.33 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. It rose as high as $35.99 before
closing yesterday at 3.6 percent above the initial offering
price.  Motors Liquidation  Over-the-counter shares of Old GM, known as Motors
Liquidation Co., rose 7.3 percent to almost 19 cents.  Kirk Ludtke , a senior vice president at the Stamford, Connecticut-
based brokerage firm CRT Capital Group LLC, said he values the
new GM at $45 a share.  Old GM is still counting up creditor claims, which stood at
$35.7 billion on Sept. 30, according to its last monthly report.
If unsecured claims are certified at $37 billion, as the new GM
said it expects in IPO documents this month, the estate would
get at least 10 million new GM shares.  If claims against old GM reach as high as $42 billion,
creditors could get as many as 30 million new shares, according
to the IPO documents.  “Without the bankruptcy there would be a high probability
that GM as we knew it would have been disassembled, dismembered,
and you wouldn’t have this American icon still in existence,”
said  Harvey Miller , a lawyer with New York-based Weil Gotshal &
Manges LLP who helped GM with its bankruptcy.  Bonds Fall  Old GM creditors’ stake in the new automaker is dwarfed by
that of the U.S. Treasury, which bailed it out with $50 billion,
and got 61 percent, and the United Auto Workers retiree health-
care trust, which has 20 percent.  Old GM’s 8.375 percent  bonds  due in July 2033 fell for the
fourth day and were at 31.75 cents on the dollar, off 1.25 cents
at 12.07 p.m. today in New York, according to Trace, the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority’s bond-pricing service.  “The big issue that will be debated for a long time is
whether the value being raised in the IPO is really value that
should have been part of the estate for old creditors,” said
 Michael P. Richman , chairman of Patton Boggs LLP’s restructuring
practice, who represented bondholders challenging the
government’s plan for GM in June 2009.  Cadillac, Chevrolet  When old GM filed for bankruptcy, it sold its best assets,
including its Cadillac and Chevrolet divisions, to a new
company. Unwanted properties, such as outmoded factories and its
Saturn division, were left under bankruptcy-court protection and
are to be liquidated under a plan that repays loans from the
U.S. Treasury and Canada.  An ad hoc committee of GM bondholders that held about 54
percent of the carmaker’s $27 billion in bond debt agreed to
support a plan that swapped debt for equity. A committee that
called itself the “Unofficial Committee of Family & Dissident
GM Bondholders,” and included three individuals holding $2.3
million in bonds, had objected to GM’s sale of its good assets
to a Treasury-funded entity. They were denied court permission
to form a committee in the bankruptcy case.  “Its great that all this money’s being raised, it’s too
bad people who held $27 billion of bonds, many of whom were
retirees of GM, couldn’t participate,” said  Thomas Lauria , a
White & Case LLP lawyer who represented dissident creditors in
the bankruptcy of Chrysler.  Shot in Arm  While the IPO revenue is a shot in the arm for creditors of
old GM, which was renamed  Motors Liquidation Co. , the amount of
yet unrecognized environmental and other claims may dilute
ultimate recoveries.  A proposed plan to distribute the bankrupt estate’s assets
was provisionally approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Robert Gerber  in New York on Oct. 21.  A proposed GM environmental settlement would set aside $773
million to resolve claims by the federal government and 14
states. A mix of cash and assets, put into trusts, would cover
cleanup at 89 properties, with more than half the money going to
New York and Michigan.  The U.S. didn’t give a total estimate of what it claimed GM
should owe for cleanup costs, and the Environmental Protection
Agency makes claims based on potential liabilities that are
often shared among multiple “potentially responsible parties.”
Two units of the defunct carmaker formed to hold environmental
liabilities owed about $1.2 billion in cleanup costs, according
to court documents.  GM’s estate estimated it has $648 million in asbestos
liability. A committee of creditors said in court filings that
the amount may be five to 10 times that much. Creditors are
seeking court permission to investigate General Motors and other
non-bankrupt companies in order to estimate their potential
asbestos claim.  The case is In re Motors Liquidation Co., 09-50026, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 