-- Only Apple-Haters Can Love Samsung Galaxy Tab: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2010-11-18T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/only-apple-haters-can-love-samsung-galaxy-tab-rich-jaroslovsky.html
There’s a lot to like about the new
Galaxy Tab, Samsung Electronics Co.’s competitor to  Apple Inc .’s
iPad. So why don’t I like it more?  I mean, it has two cameras, to none on the iPad, so I can
use it for video calling. It has a bright color screen, and I’m
a known sucker for Samsung screens. It plays nicely with  Adobe
Systems Inc .’s Flash video format while Apple doesn’t. Though it
has fewer apps than the iPad, the difference between 100,000 and
300,000 doesn’t mean much when I use only 100 or so of ‘em.  So why am I just mild about the Galaxy Tab? Maybe because
it costs too much and suffers from a general lack of wow. For
all its features, it’s much less than the sum of its parts.  The Galaxy Tab, which is being introduced on all four major
U.S. wireless carriers, uses  Google Inc .’s Android operating
system for mobile devices. It’s about as tall and wide as  Amazon.com Inc .’s newest Kindle e-reader; its 7-inch backlit
color touch screen is less than half the size of the iPad
display.  It’s also much lighter -- almost 14 ounces versus about 24
for the iPad -- and a smidgeon thinner. Still, it feels solid
and seems rugged enough to stand up to heavy use. The front, for
instance, is protected by a sheet of  Corning Inc .’s Gorilla
Glass, which ought to provide ample protection from any set of
keys you might toss into the same pocket.  A Bigger Droid  Using an iPad isn’t like using an iPod Touch. Its larger
size and two-hand operation makes it a very different
experience. By contrast, using the Galaxy Tab is a lot like
using one of the big-screen Android-based smartphones already
available, such as  Motorola Inc .’s Droid X or  HTC Corp .’s EVO.  The Galaxy, which is powered by the same processor used in
Samsung’s Galaxy S smartphones, comes with 16 gigabytes of
onboard storage for apps and content, the same as the base-level
iPad. A slot for an SD memory card lets you expand it by an
additional 32 gigabytes. The cameras are nothing special -- the
front-facing one is 1.3 megapixels, the rear is 3 megapixels --
but it’s kind of fun to be able to see your photo or video on
the 7-inch screen while you’re shooting it.  The screen on the Galaxy is a disappointment. It’s bright
enough but lacks the jump-out-at-you pizzazz of the gorgeous
 Super AMOLED  displays that Samsung uses on the Galaxy S phones.
The screen also displayed an annoying tendency to dim itself
while I was using it, the result of a feature that analyzes the
image being displayed and automatically adjusts the brightness.
Even with the option disabled, the screen would sometimes dim on
its own, though not as often.  Customized Apps  Samsung has tailored some of the tablet’s included
software, such as the e-mail client and calendar, to take
advantage of the larger-than-a-phone screen. Still, few third-
party apps are available that have been adapted to its
dimensions and capabilities. Apple Chief Executive  Steve Jobs 
recently trash-talked the 7-inch size, saying it “isn’t
sufficient to create great tablet apps.” I don’t buy that, but
for the Galaxy to be a success, Android developers will need to
step up and prove him wrong.  Like the iPad’s, the Galaxy Tab’s battery isn’t user-
replaceable. Samsung says the Galaxy has a battery life of six
to seven hours of continuous video playback, which is less than
the iPad but sufficient to keep you entertained on a cross-
country flight. Warning: On two separate devices, the charge
plunged when Bluetooth connectivity was enabled, so keep it off
unless you need it.  Paying a Price  You might be willing to live with the Galaxy Tab’s
compromises if you were at least saving a bunch of money over an
iPad. You aren’t.  Verizon Wireless  and Deutsche Telecom’s T-
Mobile are pricing the Samsung at $599, plus the cost of a data
plan, and AT&T Inc. is charging $649. Direct comparison among
the carriers is complicated: AT&T’s cheapest data plan costs $15
a month, for example, while Verizon’s plans start at $20
monthly. T-Mobile allows you to use the tablet as a mobile Wi-Fi
hotspot at no extra charge. Meanwhile, T-Mobile and  Sprint
Nextel Corp . will sell you a Tab for $399, but only if you sign
a two-year, mobile phone-like contract.  By contrast, Wi-Fi-only iPads start at $499, and 3G-enabled
models start at $629. That suggests to me that a core market for
the Galaxy Tab may be people with an intrinsic, philosophical
distaste for Apple’s Jobs and his desire to control every aspect
of his customers’ experience. The sentiment is understandable,
but it seems a poor reason to buy a lesser product.  There’s no question that Jobs and his iPad need a worthy
competitor. The Galaxy Tab just isn’t it.    Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 