-- Lenihan Says Ireland Government May Accept Aid for Banks From Europe, IMF
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2010-11-18T18:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/honohan-says-ireland-may-request-tens-of-billions-for-banks-from-eu-imf.html
Ireland said it may ask for an
international bailout as European Central Bank President  Jean- Claude Trichet  signaled debt-laden nations can’t rely on him to
keep their financial systems afloat forever.  Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said in Dublin he would
welcome the creation of “substantial contingency capital
funding” for Irish banks, as they became “unmanageable for the
state itself.” In Frankfurt, Trichet said in a speech that
policies first used to fight the global credit crisis can’t
“evolve into a dependency as conditions normalize.”  The ECB is concerned that banks in Ireland and  Greece  are
becoming too reliant on its unlimited money market operations
and is pushing Ireland to accept a rescue funded by European
Union governments and the International Monetary Fund. Irish
central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said today that an
agreement may amount to “tens of billions” of euros.  Lenihan said Honohan “may well be right on that, but
figures haven’t yet been discussed.”  “The big difficulty is that the banks grew to such a size
that they became too unmanageable for the state itself,”
Lenihan said on Irish broadcaster RTE. “That’s why we have to
consider external assistance to stabilize the banking system.”  No ‘Shame’  EU, IMF and ECB officials today started to study the books
of Irish banks battered by the country’s property slump.
Investors dumped Irish bonds last week on concern about the
nation’s ability to keep its financial system afloat, forcing
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen ’s government to abandon its refusal
to seek foreign aid.  “I certainly don’t feel a sense of shame about fighting
hard for this country for the last two years to ensure its
financial survival,” Lenihan said.  Irish bonds rose today, pushing the yield on the country’s
10-year debt down 2 basis points to 8.31 percent at the close in
London. The  premium  investors charge to hold the bonds over
benchmark German bunds fell to 541 basis points from 554 basis
points yesterday. It touched a record 652 points on Nov. 11.  Honohan  said that Ireland would probably pay an interest rate
close to 5 percent on any loans, similar to the rate offered to
Greece when it requested a bailout in April. Lenihan said it
would be “very desirable” to create a banking fund that didn’t
have to be drawn down. An agreement has not yet been reached  “It will be a large loan because the purpose of the amount
to be advanced, or to be made available, is to show Ireland has
sufficient firepower to deal with any concerns of the market,”
Honohan said. “We’re talking about a substantial loan.”  Balancing Act  Ireland’s woes, which follow the near-collapse of Greece’s
finances earlier this year, contrast with the strength of
economic growth in Germany. Europe’s largest economy expanded at
the fastest pace since 1990 in the second quarter and business
confidence rose to the highest since May 2007 last month.  That’s confronting the ECB with a balancing act as it tries
to prevent Germany from overheating while propping up the
financial systems of the euro region periphery.  “The ECB appears very uncomfortable with the role it has
been forced to play in this ongoing drama,” said  David Mackie ,
chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, “A
central bank’s lender of last resort role is not meant to fund
fifteen-to-twenty percent of the banking sector’s balance sheet
on an open-ended basis.”  Emergency Exit  Underscoring the ECB’s reluctance to be blown off course,
Trichet emphasized the central bank’s willingness to withdraw
emergency measures if needed next year. The ECB’s  benchmark rate 
is currently at a record low of 1 percent.  “We consider that we are not bound to unwind non-standard
measures before considering interest-rate increases; we could do
one or the other or both,” he said.  Ireland’s banking crisis has added to the nation’s fiscal
burden after the recession and a  real-estate crash  eroded tax
revenue. Talks with the EU and the IMF may shift to the
government’s finances after Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on Nov. 16 that Ireland’s banking woes are “spilling
over to the sovereign.” An EU official familiar with the talks
said Nov. 16 that a package may clear the way for the government
to stay out of the bond market for an extended period.  Fitch Review  Fitch Ratings said today it will review its grade for
Ireland “in light of any package agreed with the IMF and EU.”  The review will include an assessment of “the likelihood
that it would allow Irish banks and in particular the government
to regain access to market funding at an affordable cost,”
Fitch said in a statement. It lowered Ireland’s credit grade to
A+ from AA- on Oct. 6 and said the country was on a “negative
outlook.”  Lenihan is due to publish details of a four-year, 15
billion-euro plan to lower the budget deficit this month and his
2011 budget on Dec. 7. Ireland’s government has said the final
cost of its bank bailout may amount to 50 billion euros ($68
billion), about one third of gross domestic product.  Honohan said today it’s “true that the banks need
additional confidence” even after the government pumped
billions of euros into lenders including  Allied Irish Banks Plc 
and  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  “Our efforts, the huge sums put in
by the government to support the banks, have not generated
sufficient confidence yet” among investors, he said.  Allied Irish subordinated notes tumbled today on
speculation any bailout by the EU and IMF will impose losses on
bondholders.  The bank’s 12.5 percent subordinated bonds due 2019 were
quoted at a bid price of about 45 percent of face value,
according to Jefferies International in London, down from 100
percent in September. Credit-default swaps insuring 10 million
euros of the debt cost 5.1 million euros in advance and 500,000
euros annually, according to CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dara Doyle  in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  