-- Ontario Plans to Increase Enforcement of Derivatives, Ratings Companies
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-11-18T22:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/ontario-plans-to-increase-enforcement-of-derivatives-ratings-companies.html
Ontario’s government plans to
increase enforcement of derivatives trading and boost oversight
of credit ratings companies and alternative trading systems.  Changes to provincial securities laws would create new
rules for trading over-the-counter derivatives and would add
derivatives trading to existing insider-trading offences, the
government said in its economic outlook released today in
Toronto.  “In addition to promoting fair and efficient capital
markets, these reforms would help Canada deliver on its
international financial reform commitments,” the province said
in a  statement  today.  Group of 20 nations have sought to limit over-the-counter
derivatives, including credit-default swaps, saying the trading
of them helped fuel the financial crisis. Establishing
clearinghouses and transparent trading systems are the main
components of new global rules.  The Bank of Canada is chairing a  working group  that
includes members from provincial regulators to propose new rules
and coordinate efforts on over-the-counter derivatives. The
group said in an Oct. 26 report that it is “imperative” for
Canadian regulators to have the authority and tools needed to
handle derivatives markets.  Today’s announcement is “consistent” with the working
group’s recommendation that regulators have more authority,
 Jeremy Harrison , a Bank of Canada spokesman, said by telephone.  National Regulator  The changes will help ensure markets remain open in times
of stress and clearinghouses can prevent the spread of a crisis
by setting proper margin rules, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in a Nov. 9 speech in Geneva, Switzerland.  Ontario Finance Minister  Dwight Duncan  said the province is
moving ahead with its own rules on derivatives because legal
challenges by Quebec may delay the creation of a national
securities regulator. Ontario isn’t duplicating efforts by the
central bank, he said.  “We have to move on the current system,” Duncan told
reporters in Toronto today, referring to the global credit
crunch. “Does everyone forget what happened two years ago?”  Carney earlier this year hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
Canadian Chief Executive Officer  Timothy Hodgson  for an 18-month
term to work on developing rules for trading repurchase
agreements and over-the-counter derivatives, and regulations to
ensure  banks  have enough capital.  U.S. Rules  New U.S. legislation, which became law in July, mandates
that most interest-rate, credit-default, commodity and other
swaps be processed by clearinghouses after being traded on
exchanges or swap-execution facilities. It also requires
regulators to cap the number of contracts a trader can hold in
commodities such as oil, natural gas and wheat.  The EU is planning its own overhaul of derivatives rules
and has proposed fines for traders who don’t report details of
their contracts as well as measures to force more transactions
through central clearinghouses.  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the risk that a trader defaults on a deal.  Derivatives are contracts whose values are tied to assets,
including stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies, or events
such as changes in interest rates or the weather. An OTC
derivative is one privately negotiated between two parties,
rather than being traded on an exchange.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.    TMX Group Inc. , owner of the Montreal Exchange derivatives
market, has advocated that over-the-counter derivatives should
be cleared or traded through its operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  