-- Banca Monte Paschi to Generate Gain From Real Estate Sale by End of Year
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-11-18T08:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/monte-paschi-expects-to-generate-gain-from-sale-of-properties-by-year-end.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
the world’s oldest bank, expects to complete a sale of real
estate by the end of the year, generating a capital gain of
about 400 million euros ($542 million).  “This initiative will be concluded by year end, allowing
us to book the gain in the fourth quarter,” General Manager
 Antonio Vigni  said in an interview yesterday.  Italy’s third-biggest bank on Nov. 8 started selling about
1.5 billion euros of bonds to retail clients, as part of the
lender’s plan to boost capital. The securities are backed by a
mortgage on 683 properties. “So far, the response from retail
clients is very good,” Vigni said. The securities’ sale ends
Dec. 17.  Monte Paschi, which showed the weakest results among
Italian banks in European stress tests, is cutting costs and
shedding non-strategic assets to strengthen its finances ahead
of the new Basel III rules, which carry more stringent capital
requirements.  The lender, based in the Tuscan city of Siena, also may
dispose of an additional 1.2 billion euros of properties, Vigni
said. The bank has put on sale about 500 million euros of those
assets, he said. “Even if it will require time to optimize the
return, the bank is confident about obtaining good gains.”  Outlook  Fourth-quarter earnings will benefit from higher income
from commissions and lending, and from cost-cutting measures,
Vigni said. “The bank is aiming to cut costs by 4.5 percent
this year and we are committed to do better,” he said.  Paschi’s  net income  rose 38 percent in the third quarter to
95.8 million euros after the lender put aside less money to
cover bad loans. “We see positive signs of recovery in Italy
and we believe that the commercial activities of the bank will
further improve in the fourth quarter,” Vigni said.  The proposed global bank capital rules will be “manageable
for us,” Vigni said. “We believe in the capability of the bank
to strengthen its capital position organically, thanks to our
profit and revenue generation.”  Monte Paschi’s Tier 1 ratio increased to 8.4 percent at the
end of September, from 7.8 percent at the end of June, the
company said last week. The estimated impact on the bank’s ratio
from the proposed Basel III rules is 70 basis points by 2013,
while core Tier 1, excluding government aid, should rise to
about 7 percent by the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  