-- OPEC to Raise Shipments 1.2% This Month on Asia Demand, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-18T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/opec-to-raise-shipments-1-2-on-asian-demand-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will increase crude loadings by 1.2 percent
this month on rising exports to Asia, according to tanker-
tracker Oil Movements.  Shipments  will rise to 23.65 million barrels a day in the
four weeks to Dec. 4, compared with 23.38 million barrels in the
period to Nov. 6, the consultant said today in a report. The
data exclude Ecuador and Angola. It’s the sixth consecutive
month-on-month increase, according to the weekly reports.  “Everything is going east,” Oil Movements founder  Roy Mason  said by phone from Halifax, England. “China is obviously
a big part of it, but the whole region is going up. Japan is
limping but still moving up seasonally.”  China’s oil processing rose to a record last month,
according to government statistics published on Nov. 11. OPEC,
which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s crude, said in a
Nov. 4 report it expects emerging markets to drive oil demand
growth in the next five years.  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including those
from non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen, will rise 1.5 percent to
17.55 million barrels a day in the period, up from 17.29 million
in the four weeks to Nov. 6, data from Oil Movements show.  A total of 470.45 million barrels of crude will be on board
tankers in the month to Dec. 4, up 3.8 percent on the Nov. 6
figure of 453.22 million barrels, according to Oil Movements.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships used as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  