-- Orascom Sees Algeria Arbitration in Second Quarter Without Deal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-18T18:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/orascom-sees-algeria-arbitration-in-second-quarter-without-deal.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE  said it
could be in international arbitration by the second quarter of
next year unless it can resolve a dispute with the Algerian
government over its local unit, Djezzy.  The Algerian government, which wants to buy Djezzy, has
ordered it to pay more than $800 million in back taxes and
banned it from transferring money abroad, penalties that Orascom
has contested.  “By the second quarter, if we haven’t resolved this, I
think we will already be in arbitration,” Chief Executive
Officer  Khaled Bichara  said today at a Morgan Stanley conference
in Barcelona. “I don’t think we will wait that long.” Orascom
would only seek such arbitration as a last resort, he said.  Orascom Chairman  Naguib Sawiris  said Nov. 9 he will seek
international arbitration to settle the dispute over the
Algerian Djezzy unit if the government doesn’t heed the
company’s request for an amicable solution. The pending merger
of the bulk of his telecommunication assets, including Orascom
and Djezzy, with Russia’s  VimpelCom Ltd.  has a “50-50” chance
of success, he said.  The dispute has brought Cairo-based Orascom’s shares down
16 percent this year, valuing it at 22 billion Egyptian pounds
($3.8 billion).  Algeria will get submissions from advisers to price Djezzy
on Nov. 24, Bichara said.  Bichara also said today that the proposed sale of Orascom
to Vimpelcom Ltd. won’t be subject to any regulatory probe in
Pakistan and Bangladesh. “Regulatory-wise, we don’t think there
will be issues,” he said. VimpelCom shareholder Telenor ASA
already has operations in the two countries.  -- With assistance from  Ahmed A Namatalla . Editors:  Robert Valpuesta ,  Christopher Jasper .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net  