-- Morgan Stanley Gilt-Backed Notes Limit Counterparty Risk Amid Irish Crisis
-- B y   S a r f r a z   T h i n d
-- 2010-11-18T13:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/morgan-stanley-notes-limit-counterparty-risk-amid-irish-crisis.html
Morgan Stanley  has sold structured
notes collateralized by U.K. government bonds, the second-ever
issue of its kind in Britain, as Ireland’s bank-led debt crisis
reignites investor concern about counterparty risk.  The six-year autocallable notes, which start trading in
January, offer the potential for a 7.25 percent annual return if
the FTSE 100 stock index is above set levels. The return is at
least 1 percentage point below similar notes without government
debt backing, according to  Sophie Barnett , a vice president for
retail structured products at Morgan Stanley in London.  The collateralized notes are being sold as European Union
and International Monetary Fund officials start talks with
Ireland on a potential rescue package for its banks. The
country’s potential bailout comes two years after Lehman
Brothers Holding Inc.’s collapse left holders of the bank’s
principal-protected notes with near-worthless paper.  “You don’t know what’s going to happen next and any
feature offering counterparty risk mitigation can be attractive
to investors who have that uncertainty and nervousness,” Morgan
Stanley’s Barnett said.  Using government debt as collateral provides extra
protection to noteholders’ principal in case of a default. New
York-based  Morgan Stanley  is rated A2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, the sixth-highest investment grade, and an equivalent A
by Standard & Poor’s.  The concerns over counterparty risk are being felt in
Ireland, where there are about 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) of
outstanding structured notes, according to  Barry Mcloughlin ,
head of structured product sales at Bank of Ireland Plc, the
country’s largest lender.  Irish Risk  “People are frightened by what they’re reading and their
investment decisions are reflecting that,” said Niall Duggan,
managing director at  Duggan Asset Management , a Dublin-based
structured products distributor that oversees 325 million euros
of assets. “Things have intensified over the last two weeks.”  About 80 percent of structured products in Ireland are
issued in deposit form, which means they are covered by the
country’s Deposit Guarantee Scheme up to 100,000 euros, Duggan
said. With the threat of not getting their money back, many
investors have cut holdings to below that threshold, he said.  “Even with the guarantees, investor fear is so great that
sales are falling,” Duggan said, without providing specific
figures. “Not only has the overall amount of money being
invested fallen but the average amount per investor has also
fallen.”  Dramatic Dynamic  Morgan Stanley’s notes are the latest issue of securities
devised by banks to protect against counterparty failure.  Citigroup Inc. issued securities in February that are
collateralized by the debt of G-7 countries. Investec Plc, the
South African private bank, has used guarantees from third-party
banks including Spain’s Banco Santander SA to provide more
protection against the issuer’s risk.  “The dynamic has changed dramatically,” said Jim
Shiggins, a director of pension and investment services at
Dolmen Stockbrokers in Dublin. “Previously people were looking
at the underlying and payoff of the product. Now the first
question they ask is who is providing the guarantee.”  About 107 million pounds ($171 million) of structured
products issued by Lehman Brothers were held by 5,620 investors
in the U.K. before the bank’s collapse, Financial Services
Association data show. The FSA ruled last year that 10 of the
structured plans were missold due to their use of phrases such
as “guaranteed” and “100 percent capital secure,” prompting
about 20 million pounds of compensation payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  