-- Toshiba to Shut Chip Plant, Outsource Production, Semiconductor Chief Says
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   M a k i   S h i r a k i
-- 2010-11-18T03:23:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/toshiba-to-shut-chip-plant-outsource-production-semiconductor-chief-says.html
Toshiba Corp. , the world’s second-
largest maker of flash-memory chips, will shut one of its oldest
plants ahead of schedule and outsource some semiconductor
output, accelerating efforts to boost the unit’s profitability.  Toshiba will shut its No. 2 plant in Yokkaichi, central
Japan, by the end of next month and phase out low-end chips used
in products such as memory sticks,  Kiyoshi Kobayashi , president
of the semiconductor division, said yesterday in an interview.
Toshiba will also farm out production of so-called logic chips
next year to cut costs at a business that’s “barely breaking
even,” he said.  The moves by Kobayashi, who took the helm at the
semiconductor unit five months ago, are part of Toshiba’s
efforts to focus on its main business of making chips that save
photos and songs in smartphones including  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone.
Sales of flash memory will probably rise 25 percent to $22.5
billion next year, according to researcher iSuppli Corp.  “This is positive from the point of view of efficiency,”
 Hideo Arimura , who helps oversee $2.2 billion at Mizuho Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “It’s not clear that it’s going to
have an immediate impact on the share price, but investors will
factor it in as part of a long-term theme.”  Chip Business  Shares  were unchanged at 418 yen as of the 11:00 a.m. lunch
break on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, while the benchmark  Nikkei
225 Stock Average  climbed 0.6 percent. The Tokyo-based company,
whose businesses  range  from chips and personal computers to
nuclear power plants, has dropped 18 percent this year.  Toshiba’s fortunes rise and fall with those of its  chip
unit , a business the company forecasts will make up about 17
percent of revenue totaling 7 trillion yen ($84 billion) this
year. The chip business broke-even in 2009 after incurring a 280
billion yen operating loss in the previous year, when  memory
prices  plunged 70 percent.  Kobayashi said second-half prices of flash memory may fall
more than the 10 percent forecast last week by Toshiba Senior
Executive Vice President  Fumio Muraoka . Spot  prices  of benchmark
flash chips have fallen 17 percent since October, according to
data from DrameXchange.com.  “Part of me thinks the numbers might not turn out in the
way Muraoka presented them,” Kobayashi said at the company’s
headquarters. “We’re in a tug-of-war with customers on
prices.”  Accelerating Plans  About 1,000 employees who work at the No. 2 plant will be
transferred to facilities in the same manufacturing site,
including a facility under construction that’s set to open in
the summer, the executive said. The Yokkaichi factory, which
processes 8-inch (200-millimeters) silicon wafers, was opened in
1996, when Toshiba was still producing memory chips for PCs.  While the company had planned internally to shut the
factory by the end of June next year, Kobayashi decided to bring
the date forward to the end of December, he said.  Toshiba will outsource the production of next-generation
system LSI chips, which are being jointly developed with
International Business Machines Corp., by as early as next
fiscal year, Kobayashi said.  System LSI chips, whose functions range from processing
images for television screens to crunching data, will account
for 30 percent of the 1.2 trillion yen in sales Toshiba
forecasts from its chip business this year, according to the
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
 Maki Shiraki  in Tokyo at 
 Mshiraki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  