-- Asian Stocks Rebound as Commodities Climb, China Government Acts on Prices
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-11-18T10:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/most-asian-stocks-rise-as-commodities-climb-david-jones-gains.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the region’s
main benchmark gauge rebounding from a four-day slide, on
speculation that concern over China’s anti-inflation policies
may have been overdone.  Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore oil producer, surged
4.9 percent in Hong Kong after commodity prices climbed as
concern over tougher so-called tightening measures eased.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. , the world’s largest mining company, gained 0.8
percent in Sydney.  David Jones Ltd. , Australia’s No. 2
department store operator, rose 4 percent after reaffirming its
profit guidance. Showa Denko K.K., which makes ceramics and
electronic materials, climbed 6.3 percent in Tokyo after UBS AG
raised its investment rating to “buy.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  advanced 1.6 percent, the most
since Nov. 4, to 131.97 as of 7:36 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge is
rebounding after concern over how China will tackle the fastest
inflation in two years triggered a global stock rout that wiped
about $1.8 trillion off equity markets from Nov. 11 through
yesterday.  “It seems China’s focus is more on specific administrative
controls rather than on broad-based measures,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages about $85 billion. “If they’re
specifically targeting sectors where there a problem, investors
will be a little less worried that it’s going to crunch the
whole economy. That’s what giving the market a bit of a
bounce.”  More than three times as many stocks rose as fell on the
nearly 1,000-member Asia Pacific Index.  ‘Daily Necessities’  Japan’s  Nikkei 225  Stock Average gained 2.1 percent, its
steepest advance since Nov. 5, with exporters rising as Ireland
also signaled talks with international institutions over its
debt crisis. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index, which had fallen 4.2 percent
this week through yesterday, climbed 1.8 percent after China
said it may impose price controls if prices of “important daily
necessities” surge too much. The Shanghai Composite Index rose
0.8 percent.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced 1
percent. The index was little changed yesterday in New York,
while most stocks advanced as earnings at Target Corp., an
operator of general merchandise discount stores and speculation
Ireland will receive aid offset concern technology spending is
slowing.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 7.8 percent this year
to yesterday, compared with gains of 5.7 percent by the S&P 500
and 5.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14.4 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.9 times for the S&P 500 and 12 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Oil, Metals  Cnooc rose 4.9 percent to HK$17.28 in Hong Kong. Jiangxi
Copper Co., the country’s top producer of the metal, jumped 5.3
percent to HK$23.05. BHP Billiton climbed 0.8 percent to A$43.80
in Sydney, while  Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-biggest
mining company, gained 0.9 percent to A$84.40.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum rose 0.9 percent
yesterday, while copper futures for March delivery jumped as
much as 1.2 percent today. Crude oil for December delivery
rebounded from a four-week low to gain as much as 1.3 percent in
trading today.  China’s cabinet confirmed yesterday evening that the
government may impose price controls on basic needs and
production materials. Price caps will be used if necessary, the
State Council said in a statement yesterday after a meeting
chaired by Premier  Wen Jiabao .  ‘Relief Rally’  “The market is relieved that the government has taken a
gradual and softer approach,” said  Khiem Do , head of multi-
asset strategy at Baring Asset Management (Asia) Ltd. “That’s
why there’s a relief rally.”  David Jones  rose 4 percent to A$4.67 in Sydney. The company
reported first-quarter sales of A$466.6 million ($458 million)
and confirmed a fiscal-year 2011 profit target of between 5
percent and 10 percent growth.  Sonic Healthcare Ltd., Australia’s biggest provider of
medical tests, surged 5 percent to A$11.25. The Sydney-based
company said that net income will climb by 5 percent to 15
percent in the year ending June 30.  Global Recovery  “The confirmation of guidance by companies is a reminder
we are in a global economic recovery and companies are able to
grow their earnings in spite of some of the fears that are out
there at the moment,” said  Will Seddon , who helps manage about
$350 million at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney.
       Mirvac Group  gained 1.6 percent to A$1.265 in Sydney. The
real-estate investment trust was raised to “outperform” from
“neutral” at Credit Suisse Group AG. Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd.,
Australia’s second-biggest airline, surged 3.5 percent to 45
Australian cents after its stock rating was raised to “buy”
from “hold” at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Showa Denko K.K. leapt 6.3 percent to 168 yen in Tokyo
after its stock rating was raised to “buy” from “neutral” by
 Shohei Takahashi , a Tokyo-based analyst at UBS.  Also in Tokyo,  Canon Inc. , a camera maker that gets 30
percent of its revenue from Europe climbed 1.3 percent to 4,015
yen as the euro advanced against the Japanese currency,
potentially boosting the value of overseas sales for exporters.
Citizen Holdings Co., a watchmaker that earns more than 12
percent of its sales in Europe, gained 1.2 percent to 520 yen.  The euro advanced to 113.16 yen as of 12:33 p.m. in Tokyo
from 112.66 at yesterday’s close of stock trading. The Irish
government will hold talks with the European Union,
International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank “over
a number of days,” a Finance Ministry spokesman said yesterday,
easing concern Ireland’s debt crisis will spread.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. , a fashion retailer that gets most of
its sales in Europe, advanced 0.7 percent to HK$40.60 in Hong
Kong.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 