-- Total, Phibro Buy North Sea Forties; Chevron Shuts Alba Field
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-18T17:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/total-phibro-buy-north-sea-forties-chevron-shuts-alba-field.html
Total SA and BP Plc bought cargoes
of North Sea Forties crude. Chevron Corp. halted production at
the Alba oilfield in the region.  Total said it purchased a shipment for loading on Nov. 28
to Nov. 30 at 60 cents below the Dated Brent benchmark.
Occidental Petroleum Corp.’s Phibro said it sold a Dec. 1 to
Dec. 3 delivery cargo at a 45-cent discount. Trafigura made a
bid without concluding a deal, according to traders involved in
North Sea transactions.  Reported North Sea market activity typically occurs during
a trading window that ends daily at 4:30 p.m. in London. Prior
to the window,  Forties  loading from 10 to 21 days in the future
cost 40 cents less than Dated Brent, from 45 cents less the day
before, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent crude for January settlement traded at $84.79 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at the
close of the window, up from $84.52 a barrel at the same time
yesterday. The February contract traded at $84.93 a barrel,
widening the contango, or price spread, between the two nearest-
term contracts unchanged to 14 cents.  Chevron Corp.’s North Sea Alba oil field remains closed
after an “emergency shutdown” yesterday following a gas
release, Sam Howard, a company spokesman, said by phone today
from Aberdeen, Scotland.  The Alba field produced about 32,000 barrels of oil a day
last year, according to Chevron.  Nigeria, a favored supplier of oil to U.S. refiners, plans
to keep daily exports of its 14 main crude grades unchanged in
January, according to preliminary loading schedules.  Shipments of the Nigerian crude will average about 2.2
million barrels a day, the loading plans obtained by Bloomberg
News show. The same volume is to be shipped in December which
exclude Oso, Okwori and Pennington grades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  