-- Merrill Cuts Mount Gibson Rating as APAC Resources Takes Control of Board
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2010-11-18T07:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/mount-gibson-shares-decline-after-iron-ore-customer-takes-control-of-board.html
Mount Gibson Iron Ltd. , an
Australian iron ore producer, had its rating cut by Merrill
Lynch because the company’s major shareholder and customer Hong
Kong-based APAC Resources Ltd. took control of the board.  Independent board member Peter Knowles failed to win
reelection at the company’s annual general meeting yesterday in
Perth, the company said in a statement. Four of the seven board
members are now aligned with APAC, Merrill Lynch said in a
report. It cut its rating to “underperform” from “buy.”  Merrill Lynch may change its rating if APAC relinquishes a
board seat or the company continues with a strategy that meets
the expectations of minority shareholders, Peter O’Connor said
in the report. There is unlikely to be any progress before the
next board meeting scheduled for December, he said.  APAC “exercised their rights as major shareholders,”  Luke Tonkin , Mount Gibson’s managing director, said in a phone
interview from Perth today. “I do the negotiations with their
management regarding the off-take agreements and any other
agreements we may enter into in the future. I do that free of
fear and full of confidence.”  Shares in the Perth-based company closed unchanged at
A$2.01 at 4:10 p.m. Sydney time on the Australian stock exchange.
They had earlier fallen as much as 14 percent, the most in
almost two years. APAC is the largest holder of Mount Gibson,
with 26.14 percent of the company, according to Bloomberg data.  “I believe it preferable and in the best interests of the
company to avoid a situation where major shareholders who are
also significant customers of the company are in control of the
board,” outgoing chairman  Neil Hamilton  said in speech notes
for the general meeting yesterday. If the board isn’t
independent “it is likely to have a negative effect on the
value of the shares in the company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Keenan  in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  