-- House Takeover Calming Republican Alarmist: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2010-11-18T02:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/house-takeover-calming-republican-alarmist-margaret-carlson.html
This is a story with a provisional
happy ending about how someone can grow when granted real power.
I’m referring to Representative  Darrell Issa , the 57-year-old
California Republican poised to become chairman of the House
 Committee on Oversight and Government Reform .  You might not know his face, but it’s ready for primetime:
chiseled like  John Hamm ’s, with hair colored and sprayed like
Bob Dole’s. If you’ve owned a  Viper  car alarm, you might
recognize his voice. The deep bass intoning “Please step away
from the car” is Issa’s own, from his days heading up the
company.  After being charged twice with auto theft in his misspent
youth -- he wasn’t convicted, though he did plead guilty to a
separate misdemeanor gun charge -- Issa channeled his interest
in autos into protecting them. The sale of his car-alarm
company, Directed Electronics, brought him an estimated $250
million.  Like a cheap alarm, Issa sounds off at the slightest
provocation. At a hearing in 2008, he said New Yorkers should
stop hogging federal health benefits for the Sept. 11 terror
attacks, which he summarized as just “a fire that had no dirty
bomb in it.”  Savoring the prospect of his elevation to chairman of the
committee with broad authority to investigate all manner of
government activity, Issa told  Rush Limbaugh  just before the
midterm elections  that  “there will be a certain degree of
gridlock” as Obama “adjusts to the fact that he has been one
of the most corrupt presidents in modern times.”  Packed Schedule  After the elections assured Republicans a majority in the
next Congress, Issa  vowed  to hold “seven hearings a week, times
40 weeks.”  His model seems to be Dan Burton, the Indiana Republican
who chaired the committee in the 1990s and buried  Bill Clinton ’s
White House in subpoenas, going so far as to shoot a watermelon
in his own backyard in an effort to demonstrate that Vince Foster, a deputy White House counsel who died of a gunshot
wound, didn’t commit suicide.  Issa’s bill of particulars include the possibility that the
Obama White House improperly dangled enticements before
Democratic Representative  Joe Sestak  to try to keep him from
challenging  Arlen Specter  in  Pennsylvania ’s Senate primary. A
White House report on the matter said Sestak had been approached
about serving in unpaid executive-branch advisory roles, and no
rules were broken.  Watergate Comparison  Whatever: in Issa’s world, guilt was established long ago.
In May, his campaign issued an e-mail with the subject line,
“The Sestak Affair -- Obama’s Watergate?” It said a proper probe
would yield three felony charges of bribery and corruption.  His discerning eye also saw the image of Obama’s 2008
campaign logo in the signs at construction projects announcing
federal stimulus dollars at work.  But a funny thing happened on his way to the gavel. While
not admitting he’s wrong about anything, he’s shedding the cloak
of Torquemada.  He’s cooled on investigating the global-warming controversy
known as Climategate -- alas, not because multiple probes
concluded British scientists did not manipulate data, but
because other committees with expertise could do it better. On
the stimulus, he’ll focus on wasted money, not the signage.  And Issa seems to have lost his passion for Sestak-gate
after learning that inducing candidates to drop out is a
political tool invented well before Obama. As  Kurt Bardella ,
Issa’s spokesman on the oversight committee,  told Roll Call :
“This goes back to everyone since  Andrew Jackson . If you’re
going to go down that road, you have to go back to every
administration.”  ‘In the Past’  Surely Issa will have to call some hearings to satisfy the
base, and pity the people called to that hot seat. But his
spokesman, Frederick Hill, says a schedule of hearings is yet to
be drawn up, and what’s been said until now is “taken out of
context” and “in the past.”  I was surprised to see Issa the other night making himself
at home in a room of liberal do-gooders celebrating the 20th
anniversary of the non-partisan Center for Public Integrity. He
no doubt knows that emulating Burton’s bomb-throwing won’t get
him a promotion to the Senate, a post he sought unsuccessfully
in 1998. In 2012, he could challenge Democratic Senator  Dianne Feinstein , who will be pushing 80.  Just as Issa knows he has to broaden his appeal to rise in
statewide politics, the GOP knows that to take the Senate or
presidency in 2012, it must surely distance itself from Sarah Palin’s Tea Party and return to the proven strategies of  Karl Rove  and the party’s center-right establishment.  Dancing With Palin  Consider ABC’S “Dancing With the Stars” as a stand-in for
the upcoming presidential primaries. Bristol Palin has made it
all the way through the semi-final round despite consistently
low scores from the show’s judges. How bad is she? Enough to
prompt one outraged Wisconsin viewer to  shoot out  his television
set.  Republican thinking goes something like this: If
Bristol could dance all the way to the finals on the strength of
the family name, her mother could waltz through the party’s
primaries and caucuses.  And that truly would be cause for alarm. I can just hear
Issa’s recorded voice: “Please step away from the fringe.”  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  