-- House Ethics Panel Counsel Urges Rangel Censure Over Violations
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-11-18T20:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/house-ethics-panel-counsel-recommends-censure-for-rangel-over-violations.html
Representative  Charles Rangel  should
be censured for violating U.S. House rules, the ethics
committee’s chief attorney recommended as the New York Democrat
said he was “irresponsible” though not corrupt.  Committee counsel Blair Chisam said censure, the mid-level
form of punishment, would be appropriate in Rangel’s case. The
House ethics committee later began a private meeting to consider
what penalty it should recommend to the full House.  “There’s no excuse for my behavior but there was no
attempt to go beyond what was given to me as a salary,” Rangel,
80, the former House Ways and Means Committee chairman, told the
committee. “I had no intention to enrich myself,” he said,
adding, “I apologize for any embarrassment I caused you.”  An eight-member subcommittee on Nov. 16 found that Rangel
committed 11 violations of House rules by using congressional
stationery and staff to seek donations for an  academic center
named for him  at City College of New York, by filing erroneous
financial-disclosure statements and by using a rent-controlled
apartment as a campaign office.  “I was not trying to criminally hide anything from the IRS
or the Congress,” Rangel told the committee. “I wasn’t hiding
anything; it just wasn’t properly recorded.”  In paying his income taxes, “I paid whatever the
accountant told me to pay,” he said.  ‘More Serious Violations’  Committee Chairwoman  Zoe Lofgren , a California Democrat,
opened the hearing by saying a reprimand would be appropriate
for “serious violation” of House rules, censure for “more
serious violations” and expulsion for the “most serious
violations.”  A censure would be a blemish on Rangel’s 40-year record in
the House though it wouldn’t keep him from continuing to serve.  “Public office is a public trust,” Chisam said in
recommending censure. Rangel “violated that trust.”  Rangel, elected Nov. 2 to a 21st House term, stepped aside
as chairman of the  Ways and Means Committee  in March after the
ethics panel said he broke House rules by accepting corporate-
sponsored travel.  He was accompanied to today’s meeting by Representative
 John Lewis , a Georgia Democrat who told the committee Rangel was
a “patriotic American” and a “good and decent man.”  Ethics committee member  Jo Bonner , an Alabama Republican,
said Rangel “once wielded one of the most powerful gavels in
town” and yet showed “so little regard and respect” for the
House or his constituents.  ‘No Excuse’  In a statement issued before today’s committee meeting,
Rangel said, “There can be no excuse for my acts of omission.”
He said, “I made numerous mistakes. But corruption and personal
enrichment are certainly not part of my mistakes and the
committee’s chief counsel made that abundantly clear.”  “I hope my four decades of service merit a sanction that
is in keeping with and no greater than House precedents and also
contains a drop of fairness and mercy,” Rangel’s statement
said.  Rangel would be the first lawmaker sanctioned by the full
House since Ohio Democrat  Jim Traficant  was expelled in 2002
following his conviction in criminal court of taking bribes and
kickbacks.  Rangel walked out of an ethics subcommittee’s Nov. 15
hearing on his case after the panel rejected his request for a
delay to allow him to hire a new lawyer. He attended today’s
meeting without a lawyer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 