-- Panama to Sign Tax Accord With U.S. in Bid to Win Free-Trade Pact Approval
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2010-11-18T17:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/panama-to-sign-tax-accord-with-u-s-in-bid-to-win-free-trade-pact-approval.html
Panama and the U.S. will sign an
agreement to exchange tax information this month, as the Central
American nation seeks to clear the way for lawmakers in
Washington to approve a free-trade pact.  The tax accord has been concluded and will be signed by
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  on Nov. 30, Roberto
Henriquez, Panama’s minister of trade and industry, said today.
With that pact secured, the U.S. Congress should approve the
stalled trade deal, he said.  “The Panama deal is ready, it’s easy and it’s good for
both countries,” Henriquez said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
office in Washington. By passing the accord, “the U.S. will
send the signal that it is serious about integration.”  Lawmakers such as Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat,
have said Panama would need to sign a tax-exchange deal before
they would consider the trade agreement, which was completed in
2007 and has been ratified by Panama’s legislature. President
 Barack Obama  hasn’t submitted the trade agreement to Congress
for approval.  The  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
placed Panama on a list of nations that must share tax data or
face sanctions as Group of 20 nations crack down on banking
secrecy. Tax-information exchange agreements, which let
officials request details about citizens’ bank accounts in
another nation, are needed to ensure that taxpayers have no
place to hide their income and assets, according to a report by
the organization on Nov. 10.  ‘Serious Deficiencies’  A review  published  in September by the international
organization found Panama had “potentially serious
deficiencies” in making banks and companies reveal tax
information. Panama is seeking to change its laws to meet the
group’s requirements, Finance Vice Minister Frank De Lima told
reporters in Panama City last month.  Panama has already reached 13 separate taxation accords
with other nations, Henriquez said today. By signing those deals
and the one with the U.S., “we’re going to get the
certification of the world” that Panama’s banks are
trustworthy, he said.  Sandra Salstrom, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Treasury
Department, had no immediate comment.  U.S. manufactures such as Peoria, Illinois-based
 Caterpillar Inc.  say the trade agreement will boost exports and
provide an inroad for American companies to supply machinery for
the $5.25 billion expansion of the Panama Canal.  Panamanian President  Ricardo Martinelli  has pledged to
spend $20 billion during the next four years to build ports,
expand its main airports and lure international companies to the
Central American nation.  ‘Easiest Deal’  Panama, whose economy is anchored by the Panama Canal, has
primarily a service-based economy and is one of the few nations
that run a trade deficit with the U.S. American companies
shipped $4.3 billion in goods and agriculture products to Panama
last year and imported $302 million. By comparison, the U.S.
exports more to China in three weeks than it does to Panama in a
year.  Obama has concentrated on winning congressional approval of
a trade deal with South Korea. His efforts to rework that deal
to resolve complaints about beef and automobiles failed at a
summit in Seoul last week.  “If they are looking for the easiest” deal, “Panama is
ready,” Henriquez said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Sabo  in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net  