-- Paris Club Cancels $7.35 Billion of Congo's Debt, Freeing Funds for Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2010-11-18T11:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/paris-club-cancels-7-35-billion-of-congo-s-debt-freeing-funds-for-growth.html
The Paris Club of creditor nations
plus Brazil cancelled $7.35 billion of Democratic Republic of
Congo’s external debt, almost all its obligations with the
group.  Congo called on its remaining creditors to write off their
debts at a similar ratio, the Paris Club said in a statement on
its website late yesterday. Congo’s debts totaled $13.7 billion
at the end of 2009, about the same size as its economy.  The World Bank and  International Monetary Fund  agreed to
support debt relief for Congo on July 2 under the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries initiative. The IMF said last month that
it expected the central African nation’s debt to fall to about
$3 billion by the end of this year.  The write offs will help Congo save about $520 million in
debt servicing costs each year, the budget ministry said in
August. The cancellations will allow Congo to open up new lines
of credit and increase infrastructure and social spending, Prime
Minister  Adolphe Muzito  said in a speech in July after Congo
qualified for the relief.  Matata Ponyo, Congo’s Minister of Finance who led this
week’s delegation to Paris, did not answer his phone when called
for comment.  In the statement, the Paris Club also expressed concern
over Congo’s business environment and urged the country to
improve its governance, strengthen the rule of law and fight
corruption.  Congo ranked 175 out of 183 countries in the World Bank’s
2011 Doing Business guide, which measures the ease of doing
business in a country.  Creditors are not obligated to cancel Congo’s debts under
the HIPC initiative. Congo’s debt office says that several
private creditors are considering suing the country for their
debts or have already begun litigation, a concern Congo raised
at the Paris Club, the statement said.  In one such case, a U.S.-based hedge fund has frozen more
than $200 million of Congo’s assets in court cases around the
world in an attempt to collect a 1980s-era debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 