-- Musician Patti Smith Wins Book Award for Mapplethorpe Memoir
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2010-11-18T04:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/patti-smith-punk-legend-wins-national-book-award-for-mapplethorpe-memoir.html
Patti Smith , best known as a rock
musician, won the National Book Award for nonfiction last night
for “Just Kids,” a memoir of her friendship with photographer
 Robert Mapplethorpe  published by Ecco Press.  “When I was a clerk at Scribner’s bookstore, I always
dreamed of writing a book of my own,” she said. “When I had to
unpack the winners of the National Book Awards and put them on
the shelf, I used to wonder what it would feel like to win one.  “Thank you very much for letting me find out,” she said,
with tears in her eyes.  The black-tie ceremony, at Manhattan’s Cipriani on Wall
Street, was a benefit for the National Book Foundation, which
promotes writing and literacy. The host was comedian and author
 Andy Borowitz , who joked that the publishing industry was a
sinking ship, but hadn’t sunk yet.  “I’d like to focus my remarks on all the good news about
publishing, so I’ll be brief,” he said.  The fiction award went to Jaimy Gordon, author of “Lord of
Misrule,” a novel set in the world of horse racing. Gordon’s
book is published by McPherson & Co., a small press based in
Kingston, New York, that produces only four or five books a
year. Bruce R. McPherson, the publisher and editor, met Gordon
when they were both students at Brown University and published
her first novel in 1974.  “Lord of Misrule” arrived in bookstores on Nov. 15. Last
week, Gordon sold the paperback rights to Vintage, and sold her
next novel to Pantheon.  Poetry, Young People  The poetry prize went to Terrance Hayes for “Lighthead”
(Penguin). The prize for Young People’s Literature was given to
Kathryn Erskine for “Mockingbird” (Philomel).  Tom Wolfe , author of “The Right Stuff” and “Bonfire of the
Vanities,” received an award for Distinguished Contribution to
American Letters. Presenting the prize,  Tina Brown  said, “We
read him as we watch fireworks, with wonder and joy.”  “He showed us our image in a funhouse mirror and it turned
out to be the truest vision of ourselves,” Brown said.  Wolfe, in his customary off-white suit, said he’s working
on a new novel, “Back to Blood,” which is about “actual
bloodlines,” not “wet blood.”  Joan Ganz Cooney , a creator of “Sesame Street,” received
the Literarian Award for Outstanding Service to the American
Literary Community.  To contact the writer of this review:
 Laurie Muchnick  in New York at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 