-- Pennsylvania Delays Ruling on Harrisburg Distress Under Act 47 to December
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-11-18T20:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/pennsylvania-delays-ruling-on-harrisburg-distress-under-act-47-to-december.html
Pennsylvania delayed a determination
of whether Harrisburg, its capital, is distressed and eligible
for special state aid and oversight, putting off the decision
until next month, according to testimony at a related hearing.  Lawyers involved in the process will have until shortly
after Dec. 1 to submit briefs, Ed Finkelstein, the state’s
appointed hearing officer, said yesterday. He said because of
that, the determination won’t be made until then or later.  Harrisburg Mayor  Linda Thompson , a Democrat in her first
year leading the city of 47,000, sought protection in October
under the state’s  Act 47 , in the face of $282 million in debt it
has guaranteed. The city, after missing about $10 million in
related payments this year, is also weighing bankruptcy. Act 47
protection would let  Pennsylvania  help Harrisburg devise a
recovery plan and give it priority in seeking state aid.  Austin Burke, secretary of the state Community & Economic
Development Department, had faced a Nov. 20 deadline to rule on
whether Harrisburg is covered by Act 47. That deadline was
pushed back after a required hearing that began last month was
continued to yesterday.  The extension was made to provide time to consider issues
raised by Neil Grover, the head of Debt Watch Harrisburg, a
taxpayer advocacy group. Grover is pressing for a dual
declaration of the city’s eligibility to seek bankruptcy court
protection as well state coverage.  Bankruptcy Needed  Only bankruptcy will force Harrisburg’s creditors to
restructure the city’s debt, Grover said. He said state
oversight under Act 47 could last 20 years or more, leaving the
city “stuck in the mud.”  Harrisburg earlier sought advice on bankruptcy as a way to
deal with debt associated with a trash-to-energy incinerator it
guaranteed for the independent Harrisburg Authority. Dauphin
County, which encompasses the city and is co-guarantor of part
of the incinerator debt, has sued over a $34.7 million payment
due Dec. 15 that the city has said it can’t make. The authority
doesn’t generate enough revenue to pay for both operating
expenses and debt service.  A 1998 Harrisburg Authority Series A bond maturing in 2021,
one of those on which the city has missed payments, sold for
99.8 cents on the dollar to yield 5 percent on Nov. 15,
according to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data. That
compares with a sale at 99.9 cents on the dollar to yield 5
percent on Oct. 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Thompson applied for Act 47 protection on that day.  PNC Loan Approved  Separately, the county has approved a plan to take out a
two-year interest-only loan from  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc.  to cover the December payment, on 2007 Series C and 2007
Series D notes, Amy Richards, a county spokeswoman, said by e-
mail.  At yesterday’s hearing, Charles Brown, a lawyer for the
state development department, asked for quick processing of
hearing transcripts, which are required before a 10-day window
opens to submit legal briefs. The state has to wait until that
filing period ends before a determination can be made,
Finkelstein said.  “It’s going to be as expeditious as possible given the
time constraints,” Fred Reddig, executive director of
Pennsylvania’s Local Government Services Office, said of
processing the hearing transcripts after the 90-minute session
ended in Harrisburg City Hall. Reddig’s office recommended a
distressed city designation in an Oct. 20 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 