-- Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Blood Thinner Halted on Bleeding Concerns
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2010-11-19T21:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/pfizer-bristol-myers-halt-trial-of-experimental-blood-thinner-on-bleeding.html
Pfizer Inc.  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co.  halted a trial of their experimental blood thinner after an
increase in bleeding outweighed benefits for patients who
recently suffered a heart attack or severe chest pain.  The treatment, called apixaban, was being tested to prevent
heart complications in patients with a condition known as  acute
coronary syndrome . Enrollment in the study of 10,800 people in
40 countries was stopped and patients will be taken off the
drug, Pfizer and Bristol-Myers said in a statement.  The market for new blood thinners may surpass $14 billion
in annual sales, according to German drugmaker Bayer AG, a
developer of a rival treatment. Pfizer and Bristol-Myers, both
based in New York, said they will continue to pursue apixaban’s
approval for the prevention of strokes in patients with
irregular heartbeats and clots in those who have undergone hip
and knee replacement.  The heart condition tested in the trial stopped yesterday
“was a much dicier indication” for the use of the drug, said
 Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic in
Ohio. The study “just means this indication is not going to
work out. It doesn’t mean anything for the other indications.”  The drug may still bring in $1.7 billion in sales for the
two companies in 2015, said  Tim Anderson , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in San Francisco.  ‘Little Consequence’  “In this particular indication, we did not have high
hopes, and we built nothing into our sales forecast for this,”
Anderson said in a note to clients today. “While a setback to
some degree, failing in acute coronary syndrome is of little
real consequence.”  Bristol-Myers fell 37 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $25.95 at
4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Pfizer
declined 3 cents to $16.80.  The trial was at least the fourth such failure this year
for Pfizer. In March, the company said its experimental
Alzheimer’s drug Dimebon, which analysts said could have
generated $5 billion in annual sales, failed to help patients in
a late-stage study. That same month, Sutent, approved for kidney
and stomach cancers, failed in two studies to shrink tumors of
the breast, and the experimental drug figitumumab didn’t help
lung cancer patients.  The halted study, called Appraise-2, was designed to
prevent recurrent episodes in patients with heart attacks and
acute blood vessel blockages. Patients who suffer such attacks
are especially vulnerable to have a repeat event in the
following months. About 733,000 Americans are released from the
hospital each year with the condition.  Excess Bleeding  The excess bleeding cause by apixaban outweighed the drug’s
prevention benefits, according to the companies, which didn’t
disclose the number or severity of the bleeding episodes or the
number of episodes prevented.  “We knew there would be an increase in bleeding,” Jack
Lawrence, in charge of apixaban development at Bristol-Myers,
said in a telephone interview. “The question was whether we
could achieve enough incremental efficacy to offset the
incremental bleeding.  “We knew going in that achieving a net favorable benefit
would be a challenge,” Lawrence said.  A key use for apixaban is in patients with  atrial
fibrillation , an irregular heartbeat that increases the
likelihood of clots. The standard drug given to those patients
is warfarin, a generic treatment in use for more than 50 years
that causes side effects and is difficult for doctors to
properly dose.  About half of the 2.2 million Americans with atrial
fibrillation can’t take warfarin and are typically given a daily
dose of aspirin.  Prior Success  In a previously published study of 5,600 patients, those
who took apixaban were 54 percent less likely to have a stroke
or damaging clot than those who took aspirin. Tests comparing
apixaban directly to warfarin are under way as part of eight
late-stage tests the companies pursued.  “When you go up against warfarin, you go up against a
pretty dirty drug,” Nissen said. For the acute coronary
syndrome patients, it was more difficult to beat standard care
without causing harm, he said.  The results from Pfizer and Bristol-Myers’s other studies
thus far have been “quite beneficial,” said  Steve Romano , vice
president of Pfizer’s medical development group, in a phone
interview. “This was much more challenging.”  Johnson & Johnson and Bayer AG’s blood thinner Xarelto was
at least as good as warfarin in a study presented Nov. 15 at the
American Heart Association’s annual meeting in Chicago. The
study positions Xarelto to take at least a third of the market
for warfarin replacements, following U.S. approval last month of
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s rival drug Pradaxa, said Savant
Ahmed, a London-based analyst for the Royal Bank of Scottland,
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net ;
 Michelle Fay Cortez  in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  