-- Philadelphia Officials Said to Have Met Turnaround Firms on Cost Cutting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-11-19T17:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/philadelphia-officials-said-to-have-met-turnaround-firms-on-cost-cutting.html
Philadelphia officials met with
turnaround firms including Alvarez & Marsal to determine whether
the city should hire an adviser to study cost cuts, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Alvarez & Marsal, which is running the bankrupt Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., made a pitch to work with the city to
manage spending as well as identify job cuts and other ways to
lower expenses, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private. Deputy Mayor Richard Negrin said
the mayor’s office met with Alvarez & Marsal three months ago
and has no current plans to hire the firm.  An adviser’s focus if hired would be to rein in the city’s
budget without raising taxes or restructuring debt, one of the
people said. Moody’s Investors Service cut its rating on the
city of Philadelphia’s $3.8 billion of general-obligation debt
Nov. 17, citing “continued weakness of the city’s finances.”
The city is the sixth-most populous in the U.S.  “Moody’s believes that growth in the local economy will
remain weak,” the company said in a report as it lowered its
rating to A2, the sixth-highest investment grade, from A1. “The
A2 rating also reflects the city’s ongoing economic challenges,
weak demographics and high unemployment, modest property value
growth, and a heavy burden of tax-supported debt.”  Adviser Talks  The city’s talks with New York-based  Alvarez & Marsal ,
which advises both corporations and governments on
restructuring, have been going on for weeks and are expected to
continue, two of the people said. The firm’s clients have
included the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
and public school systems in St. Louis, Washington D.C. and New
Orleans.  “I think it’s a good thing,” said Alan Schankel, director
of fixed-income research at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC. “They’re open to talking to people about all kinds
of solutions or approaches to managing their finances. It’s a
tough time being a big city.”  Philadelphia has also spoken with at least one law firm to
help with a possible restructuring, two people said.  “We have not been engaged by the city of Philadelphia,”
said  Rebecca Baker , a spokeswoman for Alvarez & Marsal.  Negrin, the deputy mayor for administration and
coordination, said the mayor’s office hasn’t put out any request
for proposals to hire a financial adviser.  “Alvarez & Marsal was here three months ago to talk about
advising on procurement and personnel,” Negrin said in a
telephone interview. “The mayor’s office has no current plans
to hire them as financial adviser.”  More Bonds  The city required potential financial advisers to sign
confidentiality agreements in order to keep a possible
restructuring process private, said two people with knowledge of
the matter.  Rob Dubow , the city’s director of finance, said he didn’t
remember meeting with the firm.  “The finance department has no plans to hire Alvarez &
Marsal,” Dubow said. “I don’t recall whether our office has
met with them. People from other departments have. People come
in all the time to pitch ideas to us.”  Philadelphia, which increased property taxes and the local
sales tax during the past year, plans to issue $268 million in
general-obligation bonds, including $69 million in taxable Build
America Bonds, Moody’s said.  “The timing is a bit odd with the downgrade, because we
feel like we’ve turned the corner,”  Rebecca Rhynhart , the
city’s budget director, said Nov. 17. The city had an operating
surplus in the year ended June 30, after two years of deficits,
and projects another surplus in the current year, she said.  The Moody’s action possibly “won’t have much of an impact
on the pricing” of bonds scheduled for sale later this month,
Rhynhart said. Other rating companies have assigned lower grades
to the city’s debt and “investors tend to look to the lowest
rating” when yields are set for new bonds, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 