-- Philadelphia Fed Factory Index Rises to 22.5, More Than Quadruple Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2010-11-18T15:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/philadelphia-fed-factory-index-rises-to-22-5-more-than-quadruple-forecast.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded in November at the fastest pace this year as
orders, sales and employment surged, indicating U.S. and
overseas demand will keep fueling growth.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  jumped to 22.5, exceeding the most optimistic forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey, from 1 a month earlier. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering eastern
Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware.  The figures contrast with a report earlier this week
showing New York-area manufacturing contracted in November for
the first time in more than a year. Exports to faster-growing
economies such as China and corporate purchases of  new equipment 
are bolstering U.S. manufacturing, which led the economy out of
the worst recession since the 1930s.  “Manufacturing is still going to be one of the drivers of
the recovery,” said  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York. “There’s room for
more inventory building and exports continue to remain strong.”  Stocks rose as Ireland moved closer to a European Union-led
financial bailout, and extended gains after the Philadelphia Fed
report. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  increased 1.7 percent to
1,199.06 at 10:32 a.m. in New York. The yield on the 10-year
Treasury note rose to 2.95 percent from 2.88 percent last
yesterday.  The gauge was forecast to increase to 5, according to the
median estimate in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates of the 60
economists surveyed ranged from minus 5 to positive 12.  Leading Indicators  The Conference Board today said its index of leading
economic indicators rose 0.5 percent for a second month in
October.  Another report from the Labor Department today showed fewer
Americans than forecast filed claims for  jobless benefits  last
week, a sign the labor market is starting to improve.
Applications for unemployment insurance rose by 2,000 to 439,000
in the week ended Nov. 13.  The Philadelphia Fed bank’s  new orders  measure rose to
10.4, the highest level since April, from minus 5 in October.
The shipments gauge increased to 16.8 in November, the highest
since February, from 1.4 the prior month.  The  employment index  jumped to 13.3 this month, the highest
since August 2007, from 2.4.  Inflation Measures  The index of prices paid rose to 34 from 31.5 the prior
month, while its gauge of prices received increased to minus 2.1
from minus 9.  The overall Philadelphia Fed’s index isn’t composed of the
individual measures, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers. The New York Fed’s factory
measure, known as the  Empire State Index , fell a record 26.9
points to minus 11.1 in November.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply
Management  national figures on manufacturing during the month.  The institute will release its report on nationwide
manufacturing for November on Dec. 1. The measure reached a
five-month high of 56.9 in October.  Exports Increase  Manufacturing makes up about 11 percent of the economy and
is getting a boost from expanding world trade.  Exports  rose 0.3
percent in September to the highest level in two years, Commerce
Department data showed on Nov. 10.  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. , which makes and markets a range of
products including housewares and tools, is among companies
benefiting from sales in developing markets while demand at home
remains weak.  “I wish we were getting a little more help from the
economies of North America and western Europe,”  Mark Ketchum ,
chief executive officer, said on an Oct. 29 teleconference on
the Atlanta-based company’s third-quarter earnings. “We’re
seeing particular strength in the faster growing emerging
markets of Asia, Latin America and eastern Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  