-- Cereplast Forecasts First Profit Making Resins for Compostable Plastics
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2010-11-18T21:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/plant-based-resin-maker-cereplast-forecasts-profit-on-compostable-plastics.html
Cereplast Inc. , the U.S. maker of
resins for compostable plastic bags, said it will be  profitable 
starting in the second half of 2011 as demand for plant-based
products pushes output to capacity at its only factory.  Sales will triple to more than $5 million in the current
quarter from $1.51 million in the previous three months as new
supply contracts boost output to 25 percent of capacity, Chief
Executive Officer  Frederic Scheer  said yesterday in an interview
at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. Annual sales will
quadruple in 2011 as the plant reaches capacity, leading to a
profitable third quarter, he said.  Scheer, 56, is betting that newly enacted bans on
petroleum-based plastic shopping bags in countries such as Italy
and in cities in  California  will boost demand for plant-based
compostable resins. Contracts with companies such as Mozzate,
Italy-based bag maker  RI.ME. Masterbatch Srl  should boost output
next year at Cereplast’s plant in Seymour, Indiana, to its
capacity of 80 million pounds a year, he said.  “We need to demonstrate a critical mass of demand,”
Scheer said. “That is exactly what will happen with these
contracts.”  Cereplast, based in El Segundo, California, rose 25 cents,
or 8.3 percent, to $3.28 at 3:59 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market
composite trading, the biggest gain since Aug. 26.  The shares 
have declined 15 percent this year.  Revenue Rising  Sales, which totaled  $2.45 million  in the first nine months
of 2010, will reach $80 million to $100 million a year by mid-
2012, he said. Cereplast may sell more shares in late 2011 to
fund construction for a plant in Europe as soon as 2012, Scheer
said.  Cereplast essentially bakes treated corn and tapioca
starches and soy proteins along with ingredients such as citric
acid and castor oil to form resins that customers can convert
into products such as bags and food containers, the CEO said.
The resins biodegrade in a compost facility in weeks or months,
depending on the product, Scheer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 