-- Poland, Slovakia Need Deficit Reduction Similar to Ireland's, OECD Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2010-11-18T13:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/poland-slovakia-need-deficit-reduction-similar-to-ireland-s-oecd-says.html
Poland and Slovakia need to cut
their budget deficits by as much as Ireland, which may seek an
international bailout, to ensure sustainable debt levels, the
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  said.  The OECD put the two eastern European Union members in a
group of countries with the second-highest fiscal consolidation
needs among its 33 members in a report released today. The
report compared so-called underlying primary balance, which
exclude debt payments and strip out the effects of recession and
one-time items, as a percentage of gross domestic product.  “Merely stabilizing debt-to-GDP ratios by 2025 from
current positions may require strengthening the underlying
primary balance by more than 8 percent of GDP in the United
States and Japan, and by 5-6 percentage points in the United
Kingdom, Portugal, the Slovak Republic, Poland and Ireland,”
the Paris-based OECD said in its semi-annual economic outlook.  The EU has demanded that its members cut budget deficits to
the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of GDP after spending increased
and revenue fell during the global financial crisis. Ireland is
prepared to ask the EU and International Monetary Fund for a
rescue package that may be worth “tens of billions” of euros,
government officials said today.  Poland’s general government deficit may reach 7.9 percent
this year because of lower-than-expected tax revenue, the
Finance Ministry estimated last month. The government plans to
sell assets, increase the value-added tax and cut 10 percent of
state jobs as it seeks to bring the deficit in line with the EU
target by 2013.  Consolidation ‘Backloaded’  Deficit-cutting measures will bring the shortfall to 6.7
percent of GDP next year and below 5 percent in 2012, according
to the OECD forecast.  “Fiscal consolidation is backloaded,” the OECD said.  There is “a serious risk” that Poland’s debt this year
will breach the 55 percent threshold that triggers mandatory
austerity measures under the country’s constitution,  the central
bank  said last month. Debt was 50.9 percent at the end of 2009.  Poland and eight other EU nations are lobbying the bloc
for a change in the way public debt is calculated, saying the
current method punishes countries that overhauled pensions by
shifting contributions to private funds.  While the change would cut the country’s debt by a third,
it would “jeopardize fiscal consolidation,” the OECD said.  In Slovakia, which adopted the euro at the start of last
year, the budget deficit is expected to “deteriorate somewhat
further in 2010,” from last year’s figure of 7.9 percent of
GDP, the OECD said.  The government plans to implement deficit-cutting measures
equal to 2.5 percent of GDP next year, helping bring the
shortfall in line with the EU limit in 2013, according to the
report. The OECD expects the deficit to narrow to 5.2 percent of
GDP in 2011 and 4 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  