-- Potter ‘Disapparating’ Forces Warner to Conjure Anew
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-11-18T21:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/potter-s-disapparating-forces-warner-to-conjure-what-s-next.html
Warner Bros., releasing its seventh
“ Harry Potter ” movie tonight, faces a task even a wizard would
find daunting: replacing a series that will have rung up $7.5
billion in ticket sales by the time it ends next summer.  With  J.K. Rowling ’s story about the teen sorcerers ending
with an eighth film in July,  Time Warner Inc. ’s film studio will
rely on DC Comics superheroes like  Christopher Nolan ’s Batman,
“Sherlock Holmes” sequels and two “Hobbit” prequels to the
“The Lord of the Rings” trilogy to help fill the void.  “We have been developing properties that are starting to
look like franchises,”  Alan Horn , Warner Bros. president and
chief operating officer, said in a phone interview. “Is
‘Sherlock’ a franchise? I would argue yes. Is ‘The Hangover’
series a franchise? I would say, yeah, you could argue it is.”  DC Comics superheroes will form the backbone of the slate.
The “Potter” films, along with series such as “The Lord of
the Rings” and “Matrix,” have made Warner Bros. the top-
grossing studio in seven of the past 10 years. In 2009, “Harry
Potter and the Half-Blood Prince” accounted for 14 percent of
Warner’s $2.11 billion in domestic ticket sales, according to
Box Office Mojo, an industry website.  “I don’t think there’s one obvious successor,” said  David Bank , a New York-based analyst with RBC Capital Markets. “If I
were looking for it somewhere, it’s the DC catalog.”  Plans for DC characters include a “Green Lantern” movie
in June 2011. The film stars  Ryan Reynolds  as a test pilot with
super powers. The studio is developing a new “Superman” film,
more “Batman” installments and movies based on Wonder Woman,
the Flash, Green Arrow and Aquaman, Horn said.  Midnight Showings  The “Potter” movies, which introduced film fans to the
game quidditch and wizardly travel known as “disapparating,”
have provided the studio with stability in an unpredictable
industry, said Bank, who rates Time Warner “ outperform .”  More than 2,200 showings of “Harry Potter and the Deathly
Hallows -- Part 1” were sold out as of Nov. 17, according to
Fandango.com, the online seller. The movie, which opens at
midnight tonight, may take in as much as $900 million, said
 Porter Bibb , an analyst with Mediatech Capital Partners in New
York. The film cost about $250 million to make, according to the
Internet Movie Database.  The series so far has produced a profit of about $1 billion
when income from home-video, merchandise, games and other
products is also tallied, and ranks as the No. 1 film franchise
in worldwide sales, according to the studio. Warner Bros.
yesterday was investigating how a portion of the latest movie
was obtained by file-sharing Internet sites.  DC Films  Since New York-based Time Warner completed the spinoff of
its cable TV service in March 2009, Warner Bros. has become a
larger part of the company, doubling its share of  revenue  to
almost 42 percent from half of that previously. Filmed
entertainment contributed 14 percent of profit last quarter.  Time Warner, which also owns HBO and CNN, closed unchanged
at $30.54 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . The stock has gained 4.8 percent this year.  The company, which has owned DC Comics since 1969, made the
unit part of its film division last year in a move that
highlighted the importance of the characters for future films.  “We’re doing our best to get the DC properties lined up
like airplanes taking off from the runway,” Horn said. A second
“Sherlock Holmes” film with  Robert Downey Jr.  is scheduled for
Dec. 16, 2011. A “Hangover” sequel reaches theaters May 26.  Not every DC entry has been a hit. “Jonah Hex,”  starring
 Josh Brolin  as a bounty hunter in the Old West, took in $10.9
million worldwide last summer. It cost $47 million to make,
according to Box Office Mojo.  Part 2  “Deathly Hallows -- Part 2” is scheduled to open July 15
and will be in 3-D. The studio abandoned plans for a three-
dimensional version of “Part 1” after running out of time.  Time Warner fell 3 cents to $30.51 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have gained 4.7
percent this year.  Including “Deathly Hallows -- Part 2,” the series is
expected to produce $7.5 billion in theaters, Warner Bros. Chief
Executive Officer  Barry Meyer  said on a September conference
call. The first six films averaged $903 million in global ticket
sales, a total of $5.4 billion, according to Box Office Mojo.  Warner and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. will try to duplicate
that success with two films based on “The Hobbit,” the J.R.R.
Tolkien book featuring characters who appeared in the “Rings”
series.  Peter Jackson , who directed “The Lord of the Rings”
films, also is directing “The Hobbit.” The first movie is
scheduled to reach theaters in 2012.  Animation Decision  The “Potter” movies were among the first Horn took on
when he came to Warner Bros. from Castle Rock Entertainment in
1999. The studio and filmmakers considered turning the Potter
books into an animated movie series, said Horn, who plans to
step down in April.  After settling on live action, the studio asked  Steven Spielberg  to direct the first movie, Horn said. He decided
instead to do the science fiction movie “Artificial
Intelligence: A.I.” and director  Chris Columbus  was chosen to
direct the first and second Potter movies.  “The thing about multiple books, a series, is there’s an
obvious opportunity to capitalize on it,” Horn said. “But the
first one had better be good. You don’t get many chances to have
an introduction, a first meeting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 