-- U.K. Gilts Fall as Global Risk Appetite is Boosted by Irish Bailout Talks
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2010-11-18T16:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/pound-falls-versus-euro-as-irish-start-aid-talks-with-eu-imf-gilts-drop.html
U.K. bonds fell as mounting
speculation that Ireland will receive international aid boosted
demand for higher-yielding assets, sending the pound higher
against the dollar and stocks surging.  Gilts’ decline pushed 10-year yields to the highest in four
months as Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said his
government would welcome the creation of “substantial
contingency capital funding” for the nation’s banks. Britain’s
FTSE 100  Index  of stocks rose 1.4 percent.  “There’s been an improvement in risk appetite, and that’s
taken its toll on government bonds,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a
fixed-income strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd.  U.K. 10-year yields rose twelve basis points to 3.39
percent at 4 p.m. in London, the highest since July 29,
according to Bloomberg generic data. The two-year note yield
gained seven basis points to 1.12 percent.  The Irish government is holding talks with European Union,
International Monetary Fund and European Central Bank officials
in Dublin today about a possible rescue package to contain
losses in its banking system. Irish central bank Governor
 Patrick Honohan , speaking on state broadcaster RTE, said he
expects the country to tap a loan from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund worth “tens of billions.”  Britain’s Treasury sold 3.25 billion pounds ($5.2 billion)
of 3.75 percent gilts maturing in September 2020 at a yield of
3.45 percent. The sale drew bids of 1.77 times the amount on
offer, compared with a 2.01 bid-to-cover ratio when they were
last sold in October, the Debt Management Office said.  British Deficit  Data published today showed Britain had a larger  budget
deficit  in October than economists expected, underlining the
challenge facing Prime Minister David Cameron as he tries to cut
record levels of borrowing. The shortfall was 9.8 billion
pounds, the largest for any October on record. Retail sales rose
for the first time in three months.  The pound jumped 0.6 percent to $1.5995. It had tumbled as
much as 1.3 percent versus the dollar on Nov. 16, reaching the
weakest in nearly three weeks, as concern over Ireland’s
finances deepened. The pound also appreciated versus the  yen ,
strengthening 1.1 percent to 133.78.  Sterling erased earlier declines against the euro to trade
at 85.02 pence.  “The risk events that still linger for the euro zone
outclass those in store for the U.K.,” said  Elizabeth Gregory ,
a market strategist at ACM Advanced Currency Markets in Geneva.
“I still want to see the pound strengthening against the euro
going forward.”  The pound has declined 3.1 percent against a basket of its
developed-country peers in 2010, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, making it the third-
worst-performing currency after the euro and Norwegian krone.  Gilts have returned 7.1 percent this year, compared with a
7.5 percent gain for German bonds and a 7.4 percent increase for
U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucy Meakin  in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 