-- Prime U.S. Mortgage Foreclosures Hit Record as Unemployment Hurts Finances
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2010-11-18T17:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/prime-u-s-mortgage-foreclosures-rise-to-record-on-unemployment-pressure.html
Foreclosures on  prime  fixed-rate
mortgages in the U.S. jumped to a record in the third quarter as
unemployment strained household budgets of the most 
creditworthy borrowers.  The inventory of homes in foreclosure financed by prime
fixed-rate loans rose to 2.45 percent from 2.36 percent in the
previous three months, the Mortgage Bankers Association said in
a report today. New foreclosures rose to 0.93 percent from 0.71
percent. Both numbers were the highest in the 12 years since the
Washington-based trade group started tracking the categories.  Homeowners are falling behind on their mortgage payments as
job cuts make it difficult for them to cover their bills, said
 Michael Fratantoni , the Mortgage Bankers Association’s vice
president of research and economics. The  unemployment  rate has
stayed above 9 percent for 18 consecutive months, the longest
stretch since 1983, according to the  Bureau of Labor Statistics .  “The increase in these plain-vanilla type of loans to the
highest numbers ever show us it really is being driven by the
economic environment,” Fratantoni said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not going to turn around until we get more
significant job growth.”  New  foreclosures  against all types of mortgages, which also
include subprime, rose to 1.34 percent, the highest level in a
year, according to the report. The overall inventory of loans in
foreclosure dropped to 4.39 percent from 4.57 percent as some
mortgages were modified by servicers, companies that administer
payments. Those modified loans may reappear as foreclosures in
future quarters because of redefaults, said Fratantoni.  Defaulting Again  The share of mortgages with  overdue  payments dropped to
9.13 percent in the third quarter from 9.85 percent in the prior
period, the trade group’s report showed. The rate was 9.64
percent a year earlier.  The decline was led by mortgages 90 days or more overdue,
those most likely to go into foreclosure. That category fell
almost half a percentage point from the second quarter to 4.34
percent, which may also be a reflection of the increase in
modified loans, Fratantoni said.  “The modification programs have helped a number of
borrowers, but at the same time we do see redefault rates of
around 50 percent at 12 months,” Fratantoni said.  HAMP Modifications  Servicers modified 108,946 mortgages in the second quarter
using the Obama administration’s primary anti-foreclosure plan,
the Home Affordable Modification Program, or  HAMP . That was an
8.7 percent increase from the prior period, according to U.S.
Treasury Department data. Using private programs, the companies
altered an additional 164,473 home loans, a gain of 25 percent,
the data show.  Almost half of the mortgages modified in 2009’s first
quarter, before HAMP began in March of that year, were overdue
by 90 days or more in this year’s second quarter, according to
Treasury Department data. Mortgages overdue by more than three
months typically are considered in default, while home loans
overdue by fewer days are called delinquent.  Modifications using the HAMP guidelines have a better track
rate than non-government programs, the data show. Six months
after changing mortgage terms, 11 percent of HAMP modifications
were delinquent, compared with 22 percent of loans renegotiated
using other means, according to Treasury.  HAMP lowers mortgage payments to about a third of
borrowers’ income by temporarily reducing interest, lengthening
the term of the loan and deferring principal payments.  Foreclosure Freeze  Today’s Mortgage Bankers Association report doesn’t include
much data related to foreclosure freezes that began in late
September after questions arose about the integrity of court
filings, Fratantoni said. Attorneys general in all 50 states are
conducting probes into foreclosure practices after allegations
surfaced that mortgage industry employees signed legal documents
without ensuring their accuracy.  “We really don’t know what impact the halt will have,
though it certainly will put upward pressure on some of the
foreclosure numbers,” Fratantoni said. “We’re looking to the
fourth quarter or 2011’s first quarter to see the results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kathleen M. Howley  in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 