-- Qualcomm, AT&T Said to Hold Talks for Mobile-TV Spectrum Sale
-- B y   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-11-18T21:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/qualcomm-at-t-said-to-hold-talks-for-mobile-tv-spectrum-sale.html
Qualcomm Inc.  has held talks with
 AT&T Inc.  over the possible sale of spectrum the chipmaker
acquired for its mobile-television service, according to two
people with knowledge of the discussions.  Qualcomm paid $683 million for rights to use the 700
megahertz spectrum in federal auctions between 2003 and 2008,
and started Flo TV in 2004 to allow users to watch broadcast TV
on their mobile phones. The San Diego-based company suspended
sales of Flo TV after it struggled to attract subscribers.  Qualcomm Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said in an
interview Nov. 16 he is considering a range of options for the
Flo TV business, including putting it in a joint venture or
shutting it down and selling the spectrum.  The company has spoken with several carriers, including
 AT&T , said one of the people, without providing specifics.
Verizon Wireless, the country’s largest wireless operator, and
T-Mobile USA are not currently in talks with Qualcomm, according
to two people with knowledge of the situation.  The spectrum could fetch as much as $1 billion, according
to an Oct. 6 valuation by  Mark McKechnie , a Gleacher & Co.
analyst in San Francisco. The spectrum covers the U.S. in 6
megahertz blocks, McKechnie said.  “It’s got to be worth more now; they got that spectrum
before the iPhone came out,” said McKechnie in an interview,
referring to the  Apple Inc.  smartphone.  AT&T is upgrading its existing third-generation network to
allow for higher speeds while it works on building out its
fourth-generation network to debut next year. Many carriers are
seeking additional spectrum to help relieve capacity constraints
as more users adopt data-hungry smartphones.  Flo TV Exit  “We are in discussions with a variety of interested
parties and are continuing to evaluate other options,” said
 Bill Davidson , Qualcomm’s senior vice president of investor
relations, while declining to name any of the companies.  Michael Buckley , an AT&T spokesman, said the company doesn’t comment on
speculation.  Qualcomm said this month it expected to incur charges of
between $125 million and $175 million in fiscal 2011 to exit the
Flo TV business. It will likely maintain the network until next
spring so that subscribers can still receive the service.  AT&T, based in Dallas, gained 48 cents, or 1.7 percent, to
$28.44 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading 
and has increased 1.5 percent this year. Qualcomm dropped 26
cents to $47.72 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading and added 3.2
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  