-- Quadrangle Accused by Rattner of Trying to Blame Him After Pension Probe
-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 2010-11-19T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/rattner-seeks-damages-from-lbo-firm-quadrangle-over-pension-probe-conduct.html
Quadrangle Group LLC was accused in
a court filing by its former head,  Steven Rattner , of trying to
shift responsibility to him after settling investigations
related to the New York state pension fund by federal regulators
and Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo .  Rattner filed a petition yesterday in New York State
Supreme Court to obtain documents and testimony for an
undisclosed arbitration proceeding he brought Sept. 2 against
the private-equity firm.  The arbitration arises out of a “pattern of bad faith and
retaliatory treatment of Mr. Rattner” by Quadrangle and its
current managing partners after his departure as managing
principal in February 2009, according to the petition.  “In 2010, to buy peace with Cuomo, the Quadrangle parties
falsely charged Mr. Rattner -- both publicly and privately --
with misconduct,” his lawyers said in the petition. They could
have disclosed their involvement with “the underlying facts,
including those facts that exculpated Mr. Rattner and showed
their own involvement or they could offer the NYAG a scalp. They
chose the latter,” according to the petition.  Rattner yesterday resolved a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission probe and settled a government suit against him for
$6.2 million. Cuomo separately sued Rattner yesterday over his
dealings with the pension fund. Quadrangle settled with Cuomo
and the SEC in April.  ‘Inappropriate, Wrong’  Quadrangle’s settlement with the SEC and Cuomo was
accompanied by a statement by Quadrangle saying Rattner’s
conduct was “inappropriate, wrong and unethical.” Cuomo’s
office required Quadrangle to make the statement as a condition
of the settlement, according to two people familiar with the
matter. Quadrangle agreed to pay $7 million to Cuomo and
$5 million to the SEC without admitting or denying wrongdoing.  Cuomo, in his suit filed yesterday against Rattner, seeks
at least $26 million and an immediate lifetime ban on him
working in the securities industry in New York, according to an
e-mailed statement.  “Mr. Rattner now has a lot to say,”  Richard Bamberger ,
Cuomo’s director of communications, said in a statement. “But
when he was questioned under oath about his pension fund
dealings he was much less talkative, taking the Fifth and
refusing to answer questions 68 different times.” Bamberger
called Rattner’s claims that he did nothing wrong
“ridiculous.”  “Given the attorney general made repeated threats of
prosecution, of course Mr. Rattner’s lawyers advised him not to
speak,” said Davidson Goldin, a spokesman for Rattner.  In his petition yesterday, Rattner said Quadrangle and its
current managing principals took money owed him after he left.  ‘No Basis’  “There is no basis” for Rattner’s original claims,
Quadrangle said in a letter to its limited partners yesterday.  Rattner’s petition “is filled with inaccuracies and
misrepresentations, which continues his pattern of failing to
take responsibility for his actions,” the firm said in the
letter, provided by Quadrangle spokesman Andy Merrill.  Goldin disputed Quadrangle’s characterization of the
filing, saying the petition is “an accurate reflection of the
facts and the self-interested behavior of the Quadrangle
managing principals.”  Rattner said he’s seeking evidence through the petition
that will help him establish Quadrangle’s accusations are false.
He’s seeking information from  David Loglisci , former head of
alternative investments at the pension fund, and ex-New  York Comptroller Alan Hevesi  concerning the fund’s investment in
Quadrangle Capital Partners II, according to the petition.  SEC Lawsuit  The SEC said in its lawsuit against Rattner that he and
Quadrangle garnered $150 million in investments from the pension
fund in 2005 and 2006 as part of a so-called pay-to-play scheme.
In settling that case, Rattner agreed to be barred for two years
from associating with broker-dealers or investment advisers.  Rattner stepped down as managing principal of Quadrangle to
serve as head of the U.S. government’s auto task force that
oversaw the restructuring of General Motors Corp..  Quadrangle Asset Management has handled the personal and
philanthropic finances of New York Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg ,
whom Rattner supported through his chairmanship of Democrats for
Bloomberg during the 2005 re-election campaign.  Bloomberg is the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News.  The case is In the Matter of the Petition of Steven L.
Rattner, 115100/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 