-- Treasuries Decline as Stocks Rise on Prospect of Aid Package for Ireland
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-18T19:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/treasuries-fall-as-government-prepares-to-announce-sizes-of-debt-auctions.html
Treasuries fell as an advance in
stocks sapped demand for the safest assets and as reports showed
that manufacturing in the Philadelphia-area expanded at the
fastest pace this year and leading economic indicators rose.  Ten-year note  yields  were near a three-month high as the
index of U.S. leading indicators rose for a fourth consecutive
month, manufacturing surged in mid-Atlantic manufacturing and
jobless claims climbed less than forecast, signaling the world’s
largest economy is accelerating. Ireland said it may ask for a
European bailout. The Federal Reserve today bought $7.2 billion
of Treasuries.  “The Treasury market is not priced for that kind of an
economic situation,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-
based fixed-income strategist for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
“The market was fully priced and needed to correct to higher
yields to bring fresh buyers in.”  Ten-year note  yields  climbed four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.92 percent at 2:02 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625
percent security maturing in November 2020 fell 12/32, or $3.75
per $1,000 face amount, to 97 14/32. The notes last touched a 3
percent yield on July 29.  Philly Manufacturing  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in
November at the fastest pace this year as orders, sales and
employment surged, indicating U.S. and overseas demand will keep
fueling factory growth. The Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic  index  jumped to 22.5 from 1 a
month earlier, exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The index of U.S. leading indicators rose in October for a
fourth consecutive month on signs the Federal Reserve was
preparing to take additional action to spur the world’s biggest
economy.  The New York-based Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook
for the next three to six months climbed 0.5 percent for a
second month, matching the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and capping the biggest back-to-back
gains since February-March. Six of the 10 components increased.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.7 percent.  Debt Sales  The Treasury announced it will sell $35 billion of two-year
notes, $35 billion in five-year debt and $29 billion of seven-
year securities during three days starting Nov. 22, matching
results of a Bloomberg News survey of primary dealers.  The $99 billion total is unchanged from the amount of the
October sales of the securities. President  Barack Obama  has
increased U.S. marketable  debt  to a record $8.54 trillion.  The Irish central bank governor,  Patrick Honohan , said he
expects the country to tap a loan from the European Union and
International Monetary Fund worth “tens of billions.” The
country may pay an interest rate close to 5 percent, Honohan
said in an interview with the state broadcaster RTE today.  “If these talks reach a successful outcome, the flight-to-
quality appeal of U.S. government securities obviously loses
some of its luster,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income
capital markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in
Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to clients.  Spain sold 3.65 billion euros ($4.97 billion) of bonds at
an auction today at lower yields than similar traded securities.  Jobless Claims  The U.S. Labor Department reported that initial jobless
claims increased less than forecast to 439,000 in the week ended
Nov. 13. The median forecast of 46 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for a rise to 441,000 from a previously reported
435,000.  The total number of people collecting unemployment
insurance dropped to the lowest level in two years, while those
receiving extended payments climbed, the department said in
Washington today.  “Today’s data on initial jobless claims remind investors
that signs of improvement in the economic outlook are likely
playing a major role in the recent rise in market interest
rates,”  Anthony Crescenzi , a bond strategist at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in a
note to clients. “Economic activity is moving increasingly
toward a self-reinforcing condition.”  The Fed today bought Treasuries maturing from June 2013 to
October 2014, according to the New York Fed’s  website . Tomorrow
it will purchase Treasuries maturity from August 2028 to
November 2041, the first long-term debt purchase since it began
the second round of debt purchases last week.  Policy makers plan to pump $600 billion into the economy
through June by purchasing government bonds, snapping up debt
every day this week under the program known as quantitative
easing.  The 10-year yield will fall to 2.55 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of banks and securities
firms, with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  