-- Reid to Seek Senate Votes by Year-End on Immigration Law, Military Gay Ban
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-11-18T01:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/reid-to-seek-senate-votes-by-year-end-on-immigration-law-military-gay-ban.html
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said he will seek votes by the end of the year on proposals
to let some children of illegal immigrants gain legal status and
to repeal the ban on gays serving openly in the military.  Both proposals were blocked by Senate Republicans in
September when Reid sought to include them in a $726 billion
defense bill. The Nevada Democrat said he will introduce the
immigration bill separately during Congress’s lame-duck session,
and bring up the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy for
gay service members as part of the defense measure.  The immigration proposal, called the DREAM Act, would let
illegal immigrants who arrive in the U.S. before age 16 and stay
for at least five years gain permanent residency after they go
to college or serve in the military.  “If there is a bipartisan bill that makes sense for our
country economically, from a national security perspective and
one that reflects American values, it is the DREAM Act,” Reid
said in a statement. “This bill will give children brought
illegally to this country at no fault of their own the chance to
earn legal status.”  The immigration measure was proposed by Senator  Richard Durbin  of Illinois, the No. 2 Democratic leader, and Republican
Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana.  Democrats control 59 seats in the Senate, and they will
need Republican support to bring the measure up for debate and
approve it. It takes 60 votes to override delaying tactics by
opponents.  Republicans  Five to seven Republicans would most likely be needed to
push the DREAM Act through the Senate because not all Democrats
support it, said  Frank Sharry , executive director of America’s
Voice, a Washington group that backs a comprehensive overhaul of
immigration law.  Sharry said his group and other supporters will lobby
Republicans who have shown support for the measure in the past,
as well as those who are retiring. That includes  Robert Bennett 
of Utah,  Judd Gregg  of New Hampshire and  George Voinovich  of
Ohio.  Latino voters helped Reid keep his Nevada Senate seat.
Election night polls by Latino Decisions, a nonpartisan research
group, showed that Latinos cast 10 percent of the votes in
Nevada’s Senate race, with 90 percent backing Reid. He defeated
Republican  Sharron Angle , 50 percent to 45 percent.  The House passed a repeal of the “don’t ask, don’t tell”
policy in May, and President  Barack Obama  pledged in his January
2010 State of the Union address to lift the ban.  Still, the administration has fought an effort to repeal
the ban in court, saying the military needs time to put a new
policy in place and that any change should come from Congress.  Law in Effect  The U.S. Supreme Court last week let stand an appeals court
decision to let the law stay in effect during a lawsuit seeking
to invalidate it.  The Defense Department is scheduled to release a study on
the issue in early December. The Washington Post and other news
organizations, citing unidentified sources, reported last week
that the study group determined that lifting the ban would pose
minimal risk of disruptions.  The 1993 “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy, enacted under
former President  Bill Clinton , allows gay men and lesbians to
serve in the military only if they don’t reveal their sexual
orientation and it isn’t otherwise disclosed.  “Our Defense Department supports repealing ‘don’t ask,
don’t tell’ as a way to build our all-volunteer armed forces,”
Reid said in a statement. “We need to repeal this
discriminatory policy so that any American who wants to defend
our country can do so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  