-- Reid to Seek Votes on Immigration, Military `Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Rule
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-11-18T22:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/reid-wants-senate-to-vote-on-competing-proposals-to-extend-income-tax-cuts.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said he wants the chamber to vote on proposals from each party
to extend income-tax cuts that expire at the end of the year.  Reid, talking to reporters today in Washington, didn’t say
when such votes might be held, though the votes are unlikely to
come before Congress leaves for its Thanksgiving recess.
Democrats support extending the Bush-era tax cuts for couples
with income up to $250,000 a year, while Republicans want a
permanent extension of the tax cuts for all income levels.  “We have to make sure that we do everything in our power
to fixate on these tax cuts for the middle class,” Reid of
Nevada said after Senate Democrats discussed the issue in
private for several hours.  House Democrats, meanwhile, plan to take up President
 Barack Obama ’s plan to extend the Bush-era tax cuts for only the
middle class when they return from Thanksgiving recess,
according to a Democratic congressional aide. It’s unclear
whether that vote will come before a planned Nov. 30 meeting at
the White House for leaders of both parties.  Votes on competing proposals in the Senate would test
whether either party has the 60 votes needed to overcome
procedural hurdles. Neither tax-cut proposal is likely to garner
that many votes and get through the Senate, based on comments
from senators today.  Clearer Picture  “That won’t stop people from getting a tax hike,” said
 Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky.  A rejection of both measures would give Senate leaders a
clearer picture of where their members stand as they begin
negotiations on compromise plans.  That’s important, California Democrat  Barbara Boxer  said
earlier this week, because even failed votes can be a precursor
to success.  “At some point, there’s going to be that sensible
center,” she said.  Several Democratic senators who emerged from the meeting
today said they hadn’t reached a consensus on a strategy for
extending any or all of the Bush-era tax cuts.  “It’s probably going to remain fluid until 15 minutes
before there is an agreement,” said Oregon Democrat  Ron Wyden .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva4@bloomberg.net . 