-- Related Group Gives Up Trump Hollywood Condos in Florida to Foreclosure
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2010-11-18T18:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/related-group-gives-up-trump-hollywood-condos-in-florida-to-foreclosure.html
Lenders foreclosed on  Trump
Hollywood , a 200-unit luxury condominium project in Hollywood,
Florida, ending an almost two-year debt restructuring by
developer  Jorge Perez ’s Related Group of Florida.  The $225 million mortgage on the 41-story oceanfront tower,
completed in 2009, was part of $2 billion in troubled loans at
closely held Related Group as of early last year, Matt Allen,
chief operating officer of the Miami-based company, said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Juanita Gutierrez , a
spokeswoman in New York for  HSBC Holdings Plc , which led the
lending group that held the note, declined to comment.  “We’ll be a healthy company now that we’ve restructured
this debt,” Allen said. The note was bought by a third party,
whom Allen declined to identify.  Florida real estate has yet to recover from the market
collapse that began in 2007. The state ranks second behind
Nevada in foreclosures and seized homes, RealtyTrac Inc., an
Irvine, California-based real estate data seller, reported Nov.
11. Home prices in the Miami area are 47 percent below their
December 2006 peak, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller  index .  Related Group, founded in 1979 by Perez and New York
developer  Stephen Ross , will continue to manage and market units
in the Trump Hollywood, Allen said. As of yesterday, sales had
closed on 25 of the 200 units, which were listed at prices
ranging from $900,000 to $7 million, said Patrick Campbell, the
Trump Hollywood’s project manager.  Sub-Zero Refrigerators  Allen said he didn’t know how deeply prices will be cut on
the condos, which all face the Atlantic Ocean and come furnished
with granite countertops, Sub-Zero refrigerators and Miele
ovens.  Tomas Colsa, director of  Lemmus-Inver Mexico Real Estate , a
brokerage in Guadalajara, Mexico, said one of his clients is
delaying the purchase of a condo at the building because of the
foreclosure.  “We almost signed a deal for $2.779 million,” Colsa said
in a telephone interview today. “Our client would have been
very upset if he knew prices were going to go down or the
ownership of the property was going to be changing hands.”  Donald J. Trump , who licensed his name to the building, is
not a developer of the project, located 22 miles (36 kilometers)
north of Miami.  Perez, who owns about 75 percent of Related Group, has
reached restructuring agreements with syndicates led by HSBC,
 Bank of America Corp.  and Scotia Capital Inc. since banks
stopped financing his condo sales in response to plunging prices
and tightened lending standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 