-- Senators Request Probe of For-Profit College Rules
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2010-11-18T20:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/republican-senators-call-for-probe-of-proposed-for-profit-college-rules.html
Republican Senators  Richard Burr  and
 Tom Coburn  called for an investigation of government disclosure
of proposed regulations restricting federal aid to  Apollo Group 
Inc.,  Education Management  Corp. and other for-profit colleges.  The senators said they were concerned that the U.S.
Education Department may have leaked the proposed regulations,
known as “gainful employment,” to supporters of the rules and
investors who stood to benefit, according to a letter, dated
yesterday, to the agency’s Office of the Inspector General. The
proposed rules contributed to a 32 percent decline in for-profit
stocks through yesterday, according to an index of 13 companies.  “We believe an independent investigation will provide
additional transparency surrounding the actions taken by
Department officials and those who stand to benefit financially
from the regulations,” Burr of North Carolina and Coburn of
Oklahoma wrote to Kathleen Tighe, the education department’s
inspector general.  The gainful employment proposal would restrict colleges
from receiving federal aid if data show that their graduates
have poor records for repaying government loans.  Phoenix-based  Apollo , the largest-for-profit college chain
by enrollment, fell 18 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $35.47
at 3:47 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq composite trading.
Pittsburgh-based  Education Management , the second largest, rose
28 cents, or 2 percent, to $14.42.  Embargoed Information  The Institute for College Access and Success, an Oakland,
California-based nonprofit research and advocacy group, received
embargoed information about proposed regulations in advance of
their public release on June 16, Burr and Coburn wrote, citing
copies of e-mails.  Lauren Asher , president of the college access group,
declined to discuss the receipt of the materials.  “This appears to be an attempt to deflect attention from
the urgent need to curb waste, fraud and abuse in the for-profit
college sector,” she said in a telephone interview.  On June 15, after the close of normal market trading,
reporters received the information, which had a midnight
embargo, Education Department spokesman Justin Hamilton said in
a telephone interview.  Reporters typically contact outside groups for comment and
“that was the case here,” Hamilton said.  The release involved tightening oversight of for-profit
colleges, including banning the practice of tying recruiters’
pay to the number of people they enroll. The agency said then it
was postponing the release of proposed gainful employment rules.  “We’ve operated with transparency and integrity,”
Hamilton said. “We’ll continue to do so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hechinger  in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
 Stefanie Batcho-Lino  at 
 sbatcholino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 