-- Resona Targets Lending to Japanese Firms in Asia as Domestic Demand Wanes
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2010-11-19T09:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/resona-targets-japan-loan-growth-with-firms-operating-in-asia.html
Resona Holdings Inc. , Japan’s
fourth-biggest bank, aims to increase lending to small Japanese
companies expanding in emerging Asia as domestic demand for
borrowing wanes.  The bank has tied up with lenders in Thailand and India to
serve Japanese clients operating in the continent and plans to
relocate an unspecified number employees to the region, Chairman
 Eiji Hosoya  said in an interview on Nov. 17 without giving a
timeframe or growth targets.  Resona, which relies on  Japan  for all of its revenue,
follows larger rivals including Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. as they expand overseas with acquisitions to counter 11
straight months of corporate lending declines at home. The bank
is under pressure to devise a growth strategy to lure back
investors after a 46 percent plunge in its stock this year.  “Japanese companies in the service sector will probably
accelerate their shift to Asia as manufacturers have done,”
Hosoya, 65, said. “We should be able to build our business
model to offer better financing services to those smaller
Japanese businesses, which are among our core clients.”  Resona rose 1.4 percent to close at 507 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange. The benchmark  Topix  index increased 0.1 percent.
Resona remains the second-worst performer on the 83-member  Topix
Banks Index  this year.  Staff to Vietnam  In Vietnam, Resona plans to station its employees at
 Bangkok Bank Pcl ’s Ho Chi Minh office, he said without
saying when. The bank signed a business alliance with the
Mumbai-based  State Bank of India  in 2007.  Revenue  at Resona has declined for three years straight and
the company’s forecast for the year ending March is 875 billion
yen ($10.5 billion), which would be unchanged from the year
earlier.  Japanese service companies are joining manufacturers in
turning to Asia as a  declining population  and persistent
deflation hamper demand at home. Aeon Co., Japan’s second-
largest retailer, plans to spend 25 percent of its budget for
store openings and renovations in China and Southeast Asia over
the next three years.  To bolster profit amid slumping domestic loan demand
Mitsubishi UFJ, Japan’s biggest publicly traded bank, is
acquiring Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s project-finance
assets valued at about 3.8 billion pounds ($6 billion). The
lender earns about 78 percent of revenue from domestic business.  Sumitomo Mitsui’s Stakes  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. , which gets 85 percent
of revenue from Japan, in June agreed to buy a 4.5 percent stake
in Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., owner of India’s largest securities
firm. In January, Japan’s second-largest bank invested about
$180 million in Hong Kong-based Bank of East Asia Ltd.  “I am confident Resona will be able to join the group of
higher-ranked banks in the next three years,” Hosoya said.  Resona on Nov. 5 announced plans to sell 600 billion yen of
new shares over the next year as part of efforts to repay as
much as 900 billion yen of government bailout funds. The bank
plans to buy back 1.4 trillion yen worth of preferred shares in
the next six years from the government.  Japan injected 1.96 trillion yen into Resona in 2003 after
its capital fell below minimum regulatory requirements. Hosoya
declined to comment on the planned share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 