-- Retail Sales Gain for First Time in Three Months Before January's VAT Rise
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-18T10:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/retail-sales-in-u-k-rise-for-first-time-in-three-months-before-higher-tax.html
U.K.  retail sales  rose in October
for the first time in three months as consumers bought more
sports gear and games and brought forward spending to avoid next
year’s increase in value-added tax.  Sales climbed 0.5 percent from September, when they fell by
the same amount, the Office for National Statistics said today
in London. Economists predicted a 0.4 percent increase,
according to the median of 22 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. On the year, sales fell by 0.1 percent.  The economy grew twice as much as forecast in the third
quarter and has shown signs of sustaining momentum before the
deepest budget cuts since World War II. The Bank of England’s
Monetary Policy Committee split three ways for a second month in
November as it kept stimulus unchanged at 200 billion pounds
($319 billion), minutes showed yesterday.  “Looking ahead to November and December we should probably
see at least the same pace maintained as people are spending
ahead of the VAT hike,”  Hetal Mehta , a U.K. economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets Europe Ltd. in London, said in a telephone
interview. Retail sales growth will slow “in the longer term as
householders are incredibly constrained and heavily indebted.
Discretionary expenditure will be kept to a minimum.”  The pound was little changed after the report and separate
data from the statistics office showing a larger-than-expected
budget deficit in October. The currency was at $1.5961 as of
10:39 a.m. in London. The yield on the benchmark two-year
government bond was up 3 basis points at 1.087 percent.  Sales Tax  There was anecdotal evidence of accelerated spending at
household-goods stores and department stores before Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s increase in the sales tax to
20 percent from 17.5 percent due in January, the statistics
office said.  Food-stores sales increased by 0.1 percent, and non-food
stores had a 0.3 percent gain, the statistics office said.
Clothing, automotive fuel, and non-store retailing all showed
increases on the month. Excluding fuel, sales increased by 0.3
percent on the month.  Arcadia Group Ltd.,  the U.K. fashion retailer owned by
billionaire  Philip Green , said today it is cautious about the
year ahead as sales growth has slowed since the end of August.
Arcadia owns the Topshop chain, which sells clothes such as a
faux-fur hooded gilet for 70 pounds targeted at young, fashion-
savvy customers.  ‘Record Year’  “Topshop, Topman are still good, both delivered a record
year,” Green said. “Wallis has had a good year, Dorothy
Perkins has been steady. Menswear has been tougher. Probably our
toughest brand has been Evans,” which sells bigger sizes.  Green said he plans to expand the business this year,
though he remains cautious, citing the increase in VAT, raw
materials and wages. Osborne is raising the levy and cutting
half a million public-sector jobs to bring down Britain’s record
budget deficit.  Higher commodity costs helped push up the inflation rate to
3.2 percent in October, breaching the government’s upper 3
percent limit and forcing Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
to write his fourth letter to the Treasury this year.  The retail deflator, a measure of changes in shop prices,
showed a 2.2 percent annual gain in October, the most in five
months, the statistics office said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  