-- Trichet Says ECB Can Raise Rates Before Finishing Liquidity Exit
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-11-18T14:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/trichet-says-ecb-can-raise-rates-before-fully-exiting-non-standard-tools.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said the bank can raise interest rates
before withdrawing all of its non-standard policy measures.  “We consider that we can determine standard and non-
standard measures largely independently,” Trichet said at a
conference in Frankfurt today. “We consider that we are not
bound to unwind non-standard measures before considering
interest-rate increases; we could do one or the other or both.”  The ECB has held its  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low of 1 percent since May 2009 to help the euro-area economy
through the global financial slump. It also introduced non-
standard measures such as unlimited lending to banks, which it
has left in place longer than initially intended after Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis roiled financial markets. In May the ECB
started buying government bonds.  “The ECB did not embark on non-standard measures because
we thought the scope for further standard easing of the monetary
policy stance had been exhausted,” Trichet said. “Rather, our
view was that non-standard measures were required to ensure that
the stance of monetary policy was effectively transmitted to the
broader economy, notwithstanding the dysfunctional situation in
some financial markets.”  Adjusting interest rates “depends on the outlook for price
stability,” Trichet said, while the removal of non-standard
measures “depends on the degree of functioning of the monetary
policy transmission through the financial system and financial
markets.”  At the same time, Trichet said the non-standard measures
are “temporary” in nature “to the extent that they have to be
strictly commensurate to the degree of dysfunctionality of
markets.”  “The central bank must guard against the danger that the
necessary measures in a crisis period would evolve into a
dependency as conditions normalize,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Meier  at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  