-- Qantas Says Half of World A380 Fleet With Rolls-Royce Engines May Need Fix
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-11-18T11:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/rolls-royce-to-replace-40-trent-900-engines-on-airbus-a380s-qantas-says.html
Qantas Airways Ltd.  said half of the
global fleet of A380 superjumbos using Rolls-Royce Group Plc
turbines may need their engines fixed to replace a faulty part
that caused a blowout on a Qantas jet earlier this month.  The engine maker may have to remove as many as 40 Trent 900
power plants from the aircraft to replace a part that led to the
explosion on Nov. 4, Qantas Chief Executive Officer  Alan Joyce 
told reporters in Sydney today. Each A380 is powered by four
engines, and there are 21 in service with Rolls-Royce turbines.
Joyce didn’t specify the time frame of the required switches.  Qantas has grounded its entire fleet of six A380s since the
incident, while Singapore Airlines Ltd. and Deutsche Lufthansa
AG have switched some engines on their aircraft. Airbus said
today that it will press Rolls-Royce for full financial
compensation caused by the disruption, after the planemaker’s
CEO  Tom Enders  said last week deliveries may suffer next year.  “This is basically a recall,” said  Ronald Bishop , a
senior lecturer in aviation at Central Queensland University in
Australia. “It must be a big worry to them if they are taking
so many engines off.”  Falling Stock  Rolls-Royce , based in London, has said it will miss its
profit target because of the incident. The stock fell as much as
6 pence or 1 percent, to 593.5 pence in London today, and has
lost 3.6 percent since the Nov. 4 blowout. European Aeronautic,
Defense & Space Co., the parent of Airbus, slipped as much as 11
cents, or 0.6 percent, to 17.21 euros in Paris trading.  Qantas itself has changed three turbines and grounded its
A380s for about two weeks following the blowout. The carrier’s
preliminary assessment has led Qantas to believe that 14 engines
may need to be replaced, according to Joyce.  Lufthansa said today that it will switch another engine,
after already exchanging a power plant after the incident. The
German carrier has four A380s and the youngest fleet among the
three airlines using the Rolls-Royce engines. Singapore has 11.  While Lufthansa and Singapore Airlines have been flying
their A380s normally, they have intensified the number of checks
they perform on the jets. The European Aviation Safety Agency,
on Nov. 10 issued a so-called airworthiness directive to A380
operators with Trent engines, requiring them to inspect each
engine after 10 cycles, and later every 20 cycles.  No Faults Found  So far, the inspections have revealed no faults, Singapore
Airlines spokesman  Nicholas Ionides  said. Roger Hunt, a
spokesman for Rolls-Royce in Sydney, declined to comment.  One cycle is equal to a flight from one point to another,
so a round trip from Frankfurt to Beijing would constitute two
cycles. The Singapore and Lufthansa A380s complete about 1.5
cycles a day, or 10 a week, indicating inspections will occur
twice a month. Any anomalies found in an engine, such as leaking
oil, would require removal of the engine from service until the
part could be swapped, according to the EASA directive.  Qantas, based in Sydney, may be able to get more Rolls-
Royce engines from in-production A380s if needed, Joyce said.
Airbus has said it work with Rolls-Royce in helping to provide
engines on aircraft being prepared for delivery next year.  Delivery Target  Singapore Air, whose A380s can seat  471 passengers ,
continues to work with Rolls-Royce, and any replacements are to
be confirmed by the engine-maker, Ionides said. The carrier has
already replaced one single engine on three planes after
discovering oil stains. Lufthansa said the remaining 15 engines
on its A380 fleet already contain a newer generation of a
component recommended by Rolls-Royce and can remain in service.  Airbus is slated to hand over more than 20 A380s next year,
with most of them going to existing customers. Gulf carrier
Emirates, the biggest customer for the A380, and Air France-KLM
Group fly superjumbos fitted with engines made by a  General
Electric Co.  and Pratt & Whitney joint venture.  Qantas is due to receive its seventh A380 before the end of
the year, Chief Financial Officer  Gareth Evans  told a conference
in Sydney today. The list price for the model is $327 million,
although clients typically negotiate discounts and get
incentives for early orders.  The Australian carrier has yet to say when its A380s will
return to service and Kearns declined to comment on a report in
the Australian Financial Review today that the grounding will
last until at least early December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  