-- Russian Retail Sales Growth Slows as Weaker Ruble, Inflation Damp Demand
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y
-- 2010-11-18T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/russian-retail-sales-incomes-slump-as-joblessness-increases.html
Russian  retail sales  last month
expanded at the slowest pace since March as a weaker ruble and
consumer-price growth damped demand while the jobless rate
increased for the first time in three months.  Disposable incomes  shrank for the first time since August
2009, falling 0.7 percent last month from the same period last
year, and retail sales added an annual 4.3 percent for smallest
increase in seven months, the Moscow-based  Federal State
Statistics Service  said in an e-mailed statement. The
unemployment  rate  in October grew to 6.8 percent.  The rise in joblessness and shrinking demand may temper a
recovery from Russia’s record slump last year. Annual inflation
in October reached the highest since January after a drought
hobbled agriculture. The ruble was the worst performing currency
last month among emerging European economies, losing about 0.5
percent against the dollar, Bloomberg data show.  “The macroeconomic situation is less supportive, as the
current inflation has no monetary nature, which means that
higher food prices are not fully matched by nominal income
growth,” Troika Dialog analysts led by  Victoria Sokolova  in
Moscow said in a Nov. 16 report. “Food prices are rising faster
than nominal incomes, which has led to a slowdown in consumption
growth.”  The annual inflation rate reached 7.5 percent in October,
up from 7 percent in September, 6.1 percent in August and 5.5
percent in July after the worst drought in at least half a
century caused crop losses.  Russia’s economy expanded in the third quarter at the
weakest pace this year, growing 2.7 percent from a year earlier
after expanding 5.2 percent in the three months through June.
Record heat and drought during the summer will cost the economy
as much as 0.8 percentage point of growth this year, the Economy
Ministry estimates.  “We believe accelerating inflation and the weaker ruble,
rather than encouraging consumers to spend, led them to switch
their currency of savings,”  Natalia Orlova , chief economist at
Alfa Bank in Moscow, said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  