-- Rust Belt Cities Demolish Homes as Defaults Blight Neighborhoods
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/rust-belt-cities-demolish-homes-as-foreclosures-blight-cleveland-detroit.html
Cleveland’s population has been
shrinking for 60 years as the city lost manufacturing jobs. Now,
after more than 33,000  foreclosures  since 2005, it’s demolishing
hundreds of deserted, derelict homes.  An  agency  started last year to manage abandoned houses in
Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland, plans to acquire as
many as 1,000 properties next year, and tear down as many as 900 
of them. The city of Cleveland may raze double that amount,
according to Gus Frangos, president of Cuyahoga County Land
Reutilization Corp.  “You really have to bury the dead right now,” Frangos
said in a telephone interview. “You have to remove blight. It’s
unfortunately on a grand scale.”  Cities and counties across the Rust Belt are ending up with
abandoned properties under their control as owners stop paying
taxes. In Cuyahoga County, a record 2,400 tax foreclosures may
occur this year, said Chris Warren, Cleveland’s chief of
regional development. The governments are choosing to tear down
some buildings rather than sell them as residents move to the
suburbs and steel, automotive and manufacturing jobs disappear.  “That decision reflects a perception of what the future is
going to be,” said  Nicolas Retsinas , director emeritus of the
Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. It’s “the phenomenon of the shrinking
city,” he said.  Detroit Demolitions  In Detroit, like Cleveland, the population has dropped by
more than half since 1950. The city is in the process of
demolishing more than 3,000 houses, according to  Dan Lijana , a
spokesman for Mayor  Dave Bing . The mayor, elected last year, has
pledged to tear down 10,000 abandoned and dangerous homes in his
first term, Lijana said in an e-mail.  Detroit has almost 51,000 properties for sale and may add
more through this year’s tax foreclosure auction in Wayne
County, where the city is located.  “These cities really have to take on the properties,”
said Alan Mallach, a senior fellow at the Washington-based
Brookings Institution. “If they’re going to be responsible
stewards, they really don’t have a choice.”  Detroit , which has about 911,000 residents, plans to spend
$14 million of $47 million from the first grant it was  awarded 
in the federal Neighborhood Stabilization Program to get rid of
vacant properties that breed blight. Detroit razed 12,600 homes
in the decade before Bing took office, Lijana said.  Homes Being Razed  In Ohio, Cuyahoga County Land Reutilization Corp., also
known as the  Cuyahoga Land Bank , won a $41 million grant in a
second round of funding from the federal government’s
stabilization program. The land bank has budgeted about $6.3
million to demolish 605 houses in Cleveland and some of its
suburbs, according to a  report  filed with the U.S. government.  “There’s just not nearly enough money to solve the
devastation in these neighborhoods,” Frangos said.  A block on Kinsman Avenue near East 144th Street in the
Mount Pleasant neighborhood of southeast Cleveland is pocked
with boarded-up homes and empty lots where homes once stood.
Nailed to one house, its front gutter dangling over the porch,
is a piece of plywood spray-painted with “NO COPPER,” an
attempt to keep metal scavengers away.  Another neighborhood bearing the plywood scars of
foreclosure is Slavic Village, also southeast of downtown. On a
residential side street off the main thoroughfare of Fleet
Avenue, about every seventh home is boarded up.  Demolitions Scheduled  Cleveland is scheduled today to demolish 11602 Cromwell
Ave. on the city’s east side, and 6530 Hosmer Ave., in the
southeast part of the city, according to  Andrea Taylor , a
spokeswoman for Mayor  Frank Jackson .  The Cleveland area’s foreclosure rate ranked in the top
third of more than 200 U.S. metropolitan areas in the third
quarter, according to Irvine, California-based RealtyTrac Inc.  “Foreclosures continue unabated,”  Jim Rokakis , the
treasurer for  Cuyahoga County  and a board member of the county
land bank, said in a telephone interview. “It’s an ugly
situation.”  Ohio’s  seasonally adjusted unemployment  rate  was 10 percent
in September, the latest month for which figures are available,
higher than the national  rate  of 9.6 percent in October,
according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Michigan’s  was
13 percent. The Cleveland metropolitan area’s jobless  rate ,
which isn’t seasonally adjusted, was 9.4 percent, and  Detroit’s 
was 13.4 percent.  ‘Seriously Distressed’  Cleveland has 7,000 “vacant and seriously distressed
properties,” according to a report by Warren, the city’s chief
of regional development. That’s down from 8,009 last year as the
city rehabilitated and demolished homes.  Municipal groups teamed up to target 20 neighborhoods in
several cities in the region as part of a revitalization
program, according to an “action plan” the Cuyahoga County
Land Bank  filed  with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development. Neighborhoods in such suburbs as East Cleveland,
Shaker Heights and South Euclid are among the targeted areas.  Dayton, Ohio, with a  population  of about 153,800, is also
using money from the second round of federal grants to demolish
properties and build new homes and apartment buildings for low-
income families. In one neighborhood, the city is spending $1.55
million to buy 40 abandoned properties that will be torn down
and replaced with homes for families earning less than 50
percent of the area’s median income.  Urban Agriculture  Cities also are encouraging urban agriculture through the
planting of community gardens on vacant lots. In some cases,
homes acquired by a municipality are rehabilitated and occupied
again.  When buildings are demolished, the lots left behind may be
cleaned for agriculture or the planting of gardens, or used for
new construction. In the Cleveland area, multiple plots may be
put together to allow for larger developments, which won’t go
forward until demand for redevelopment emerges, according to
Cuyahoga Land Bank.  Phoenix, which has the eighth-highest U.S. foreclosure
rate, also received money from the federal government and plans
to spend 3 percent of the first round on “clearance,” which
includes cleaning up vacant lots and demolishing properties,
according to government records.  For Sun Belt cities such as Phoenix, where there likely
will be greater growth than in Cleveland and Detroit, the more
practical strategy may be to hold on to homes until the real
estate market recovers, said Terry Schwarz, director of Kent
State University’s Cleveland Urban Design Collaborative in
Cleveland.  “Depending on the property and climate, it may be possible
to mothball the buildings,” Schwarz said.  Buying Foreclosed Homes  That’s what Phoenix is doing. The city of 1.6 million is
buying foreclosed homes through the National Community
Stabilization Trust, according to Kate Krietor, deputy director
of neighborhood services for Phoenix. The Washington-based
 trust , sponsored by six nonprofit groups, helps local community-
housing organizations buy foreclosed properties from lenders.  Phoenix-area home prices fell 52 percent in August from
their peak in June 2006, according to data from the S&P/Case-
Shiller home-price indexes. Farther east,  values  in and around
Detroit dropped 44 percent from their 2005 record. Cleveland-
area  prices  are down 13 percent from the peak four years ago.  Foreclosures are likely to continue in Cleveland as the
economy struggles to rebound.  “It’s a dismal picture,” said Rokakis, the Cuyahoga
county treasurer. “The only thing positive is this land bank
and what we’re doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Louis  in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 