-- SABMiller Profit Gains 19% on Growth Outside Europe; Shares Rise to Record
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2010-11-18T09:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/sabmiller-first-half-profit-increases-15-on-growth-in-developing-markets.html
SABMiller Plc , the maker of Grolsch
and Peroni beers, reported first-half profit that beat analysts’
estimates on growth in all regions outside Europe, sending the
shares to a record high.  Adjusted earnings rose 19 percent to $1.47 billion in the
six months ended September from $1.24 billion a year earlier,
the London-based company said today. The average of 12 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was $1.37 billion.  Profit increased in four out of five continents, driven by
volume growth in Africa and China, higher prices and the
strength of the company’s major operating currencies against the
dollar. Markets in the U.K., France and Germany are “reasonably
depressed,” Chief Executive Officer  Graham Mackay  said.  “The company is very well positioned for sales growth,
given its exposure to emerging markets, but it still has more to
prove in terms of fixed-cost reduction,” Matthew  Jordan , an
analyst at Matrix Group in London, said by phone. Matrix is
likely to raise its full-year earnings estimates, he said.  SABMiller  shares  rose as much as 105 pence, or 5.1 percent,
to 2,157 pence, the highest since they were listed in London in
1999. The stock traded at 2,153.5 pence as of 9:27 a.m.  Profit in Europe fell 4 percent excluding currency shifts
and acquisitions. The western part of the continent is
performing worse than the east, Mackay said on a conference
call, with some consumers “downtrading” from beer to spirits.  Latin America  In Latin America, SABMiller’s biggest  region , earnings
before interest and tax rose 10 percent as price rises and lower
raw materials expenses offset a decline in volume caused by poor
weather and five “dry days” around Colombia’s election.  Profit rose 8 percent in the South African beverages unit,
22 percent in Asia and 27 percent in North America.  SABMiller, the world’s second-biggest brewer by volume, is
interested in making acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer
 Malcolm Wyman  said in a Bloomberg Television interview. He
declined to comment on Foster’s Group Ltd. amid reports that
SABMiller may bid for its beer division.  The brewer plans to raise prices “selectively,” based on
“incremental improvement” in economic conditions. Benefits
from lower raw-material costs and increased productivity will be
at “a more moderate rate” in the second half, it also said.  Group  revenue,  which includes sales from associates such as
MillerCoors LLC, rose to $14.2 billion from $13.4 billion a year
earlier. That exceeded the $14 billion average estimate.  Net income climbed to $1.12 billion from $973 million a
year earlier, compared with the $1.24 billion average estimate.  Shareholders will get an interim  dividend  of 19.5 cents a
share, up from 17 cents a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Armorel Kenna  in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  