-- San Miguel Says It May Raise $3 Billion to Fund Growth, Driving Up Stock
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2010-11-18T08:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/san-miguel-says-it-may-sell-3-billion-shares-next-year-driving-up-stock.html
San Miguel Corp.,  the Philippines’
largest food and drinks company, may sell about $3 billion of
shares in the first quarter of next year to fund bids for power
and infrastructure projects. The  stock  rose to a 20-year high.  “The money will go back to San Miguel and will be used for
expansion,” President  Ramon Ang  told reporters today in Manila.
It will bid for all Philippine infrastructure projects offered
to private investors next year, may bid to build a gas pipeline
to Manila and is studying coal mines in Indonesia, he said.  The brewer of  San Miguel  beer plans to accelerate expansion
into industries including railways, energy, telecommunications 
and mining. The equity offer, which will be the Philippines’ 
biggest, will add to the $3 billion Ang has raised from asset 
sales since 2008 to fund growth in industries that he has said 
have a return on equity triple the 7 percent it gets from food 
and beverage.  “Infrastructure companies are what we need today and
that’s what  San Miguel  has become,” said  Jonathan Ravelas ,
market strategist at Banco De Oro Unibank Inc., the Philippines’
largest lender by assets. “Ang is now putting a tag price on
 acquisitions  it has made over the past several years as well as
on its potential as an infrastructure company.”  San Miguel  climbed 5.3 percent to 105 pesos at the noon
close in Manila, its highest since  January 1990 . The benchmark
 Philippine Stock Exchange  Index rose 1.3 percent. The new shares
may be sold for between 150 pesos and 200 pesos each, Ang said.  Power Plants, Refiner  Energy-related acquisitions by the company include stakes
in  Manila Electric Co.  and Petron Corp., the Philippines’
largest power distributor and oil refiner respectively. San
Miguel has also bought power plants and power supply contracts
to make it the nation’s largest electricity generator in the
main island of Luzon.  Last month, the  foodmaker  signed an agreement to buy as
much as 51 percent of a company that holds the exclusive right
to a planned commuter rail project in Manila. It will decide by
year end whether to submit a takeover proposal for Melbourne-
based Indophil Resources NL, which owns a third of a $5.2
billion copper and gold project in the Philippines.  San Miguel has raised about $3 billion from  asset sales 
since 2008. Ang early this month said it will sell up to 30
percent of its common shares to widen its so-called public float
in 2011. The company was removed from the benchmark Philippine
Stock Exchange Index because its free float dropped below 10
percent of outstanding  shares .  Its hot-dog unit,  San Miguel Pure Foods Co. , in September
said it plans to raise as much as 60 billion pesos selling
shares and bonds to fund expansion. Pure Foods said it may use
the funds to enter into investments with its parent.  San Miguel ’s operating profit in the first three
quarter rose 50 percent to 19.7 billion pesos as sales climbed
28 percent to 161.8 billion pesos. Net income was 12.7 billion
pesos, it said without giving a comparative figure.  San Miguel started as a brewer in 1890 when the Philippines
was still a colony  of Spain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at   cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at   cbatino@bloomberg.net  