-- Sanyo Electric in Talks With Six Automakers to Sell Lithium-Ion Batteries
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2010-11-18T07:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/sanyo-says-it-s-in-talks-with-six-to-seven-automakers-to-sell-batteries.html
Sanyo Electric Co. , the battery
maker bought by  Panasonic Corp. , is in talks with six automakers
to supply lithium-ion cells for their electric and plug-in
hybrid models, the company’s energy-business head said.  Sanyo, which aims to win 30 percent to 40 percent of
rechargeable-battery orders for low-emission cars by 2020, is
“starting to have a firm conviction” to reach the goal,
Executive Vice President  Mitsuru Honma  told reporters in Tokyo
today. He declined to name the automakers.  The world’s biggest maker of rechargeable batteries will
start mass production of cells for all-electric cars and plug-in
hybrids by as early as mid 2011 at a new plant, the executive
said. Sanyo boosted its production capacity of lithium-ion cells
for hybrid models 11-fold to 1.1 million in July as it opened
the plant in Kasai city, near Osaka.  Sanyo, whose 81 percent stake is owned by Panasonic, rose
0.7 percent to close at 137 yen in Tokyo  trading  today.  The Osaka-based company estimates global lithium-ion
battery market will more than triple to 5 trillion yen ($60
billion) in 10 years from 1.5 trillion yen in the year to March
2011, Honma said. Automotive cells will probably total 1.5
trillion yen, while those used in large-scale power storage
systems will grow at least to 2 trillion yen. Consumer
electronics will account for the remaining 1.5 trillion yen.  Slashing Costs  In May, Suzuki Motor Corp., Japan’s second-largest
minicar maker, agreed to use Sanyo’s lithium-ion battery system
for a plug-in hybrid version of its Swift compact car. The
battery maker’s factory in Tokushima prefecture, southwestern
Japan, makes lithium-ion batteries for  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s
largest automaker.  The battery maker plans to slash the cost of manufacturing
lithium-ion cells used in cars to less than half the current
industry average of 100 yen per watt hour in 2015,  Hiroshi Ikeuchi  , an executive officer for Sanyo’s hybrid electric-
vehicle division, said last month.  Sanyo provides nickel-metal hydride batteries to Honda
Motor Co. and Ford Motor Co. for their hybrid models and will
supply the device for PSA Peugeot Citroen Group’s hybrid cars
from 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 