-- Schwab Revised YieldPlus Accord Won't Raise Cost, Investors' Lawyer Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-11-19T00:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/schwab-revised-accord-won-t-raise-cost-lawyer-says-update1-.html
Charles Schwab Corp.  wouldn’t pay
more under a revised accord to resolve shareholder lawsuits over
losses in its YieldPlus mutual fund than under a $235 million
settlement announced in May, a lawyer for investors said.  An attorney for the shareholders, Steve Berman, said the
new agreement allows YieldPlus investors outside California to
take the settlement of federal securities law claims, or to opt
out and individually pursue federal and state law claims in
arbitration.  “No additional consideration in terms of dollars, but
there is an additional mechanism available to people who feel
strongly about it,” Berman told U.S. District Judge  William Alsup  in court in San Francisco today. The revised agreement is
subject to Alsup’s approval.  Schwab said Nov. 8 that it was terminating the settlement
because of a dispute over whether out-of-state investors who
took advantage of the class settlement could still individually
sue the company for unfair business practices.  A memorandum of understanding filed yesterday makes clear
that non-Californians who opt out will forego any recovery
provided by the settlement.  Previous Agreement  Schwab, the largest independent brokerage by client assets,
agreed in May to pay $235 million
 -- $35 million of which covers state law claims of California
investors -- to resolve allegations that it misled customers
about the amount of mortgage-backed securities held by
YieldPlus, once the world’s largest short-term bond fund.  The San Francisco-based fund’s 1999 registration statement
said YieldPlus wouldn’t invest more than 25 percent of its
assets in a single industry. Schwab amended the statement in
2006 to say it no longer considered mortgage-backed securities
an industry. By 2008 the fund’s investments in those securities,
backed by home loans without government guarantees, grew to 50.1
percent of the portfolio, investor lawsuits claimed. Damages of
as much as $802 million were sought.  YieldPlus assets peaked at $13.5 billion in 2007, and had
fallen to $184 million as of Feb. 28, Bloomberg data show. The
company said the fund’s losses were caused by the collapse of
the financial markets. It didn’t admit wrongdoing as part of the
settlement.  Alsup said he had concerns about the revised agreement.  “I am concerned that the California people will get $35
million and the people outside California get zero,” Alsup said
today, adding he would soon rule on the revision.  The settlement is available to 250,000 investors, including
97,000 outside of California, Berman said.  Greg Gable , a Schwab spokesman, declined comment.  The case is In Re Charles Schwab Corp. Securities
Litigation, 08-cv-01510, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 