-- LSE Increases Profit as Market Share Stabilizes, Plans Derivatives in 2011
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-11-18T11:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/lse-increases-profit-as-market-share-stabilizes-plans-derivatives-in-2011.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc ,
fighting to wrest back trading from new rivals, said fiscal
first-half profit rose 26 percent, buoyed by listings and
technology revenue and as the company began to stem the slide in
market share.  Net income for the six months ended Sept. 30 was 62.2
million pounds ($99.1 million) from 49.3 million pounds in the
first-half last year, the exchange said in a Regulatory News
Service statement today. That’s lower than the 67.9 million
pounds average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There is still much for us to do and although market
conditions are likely to remain mixed we nonetheless expect to
make further progress in the second half of the year,” LSE
Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  said. “Today we can also
confirm that we will be launching equity derivatives trading on
Turquoise in the second quarter 2011.”  In September, the  London Stock Exchange  said its share of
U.K. equity trading was “broadly stable” over the first five
months of the fiscal year as Europe’s oldest independent bourse
sought to stem losses to rivals. The exchange’s share of trading
of U.K. stocks in the five months ended Aug. 31 was an average
62.6 percent of total cash equities, the company said. That
compared with 60 percent in April, the month before the exchange
changed its tariffs.  In the fiscal first-half, LSE’s share of cash equities
order book trading in the U.K. was 62.8 percent, the exchange
said today.  Switch Securities  LSE shares rose as much 2.4 percent and traded up 14.5
pence, or 2 percent, at 731.5 pence as of 11:02 a.m. in London.  Since starting in May last year, Rolet has been trying to
diversify LSE’s business and stem its loss of market share to
rivals such as Bats Europe and Chi-X Europe Ltd.  Rolet  bought
Colombo, Sri Lanka-based MillenniumIT last year to overhaul
LSE’s technology. Still, on Nov. 3, Rolet’s yearlong attempt to
switch securities to a faster new trading system hit its third
delay with the bourse blaming a “suspicious” glitch that
briefly shut down its Turquoise platform.  Platform Outage  “We announced that the Turquoise platform was the subject
of a two hour outage,” LSE said today. “This was an isolated
incident and although a thorough investigation is ongoing it is
clear that it was unconnected to the functioning of the trading
platform itself.”  The exchange still plans to roll out the new system for the
main U.K. market in “early” 2011, it said. Rolet today
declined to give further details on the cause or the
investigation.  In June, Rolet said LSE aims to be a pan-European
derivatives market in the next nine months and offer competition
to Eurex and Liffe, Europe’s biggest derivatives exchanges. The
exchange, which trails rivals  NYSE Euronext  and  Deutsche Boerse
AG  in derivatives trading, is trying to diversify. NYSE Liffe
 lists  futures and options on the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index and other
European indexes. LSE, where the bulk of FTSE 100 stocks trade,
is taking on  NYSE Euronext’s  Liffe market with a plan to offer
futures and options on the gauge, people familiar with the
situation said previously.  Today Rolet said the exchange would start an equity
derivatives trading platform on its Turquoise system which it
owns in partnership with the biggest banks. The products will be
cleared by LSE’s Cassa di Compensazione & Garanzia, which it
acquired with its 2007 purchase of Borsa Italiana SpA, with
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  The “outlook statement highlights positive volume trends
in November as well as a promising pipeline for IPOs with some
notable new listings in recent weeks,”  Raul Sinha  and  Ravi Singh , analysts at Nomura Holdings Inc. in London. “The group
highlights a number of new initiatives it is currently focused
on, the most important of which is its pan European equity
derivatives venture, in our view. This would be launched in
second quarter 2011 on the Turquoise platform, starting with
FTSE Futures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 