-- SEC Settles With Steven Rattner Over Kickbacks; Cuomo Files New Lawsuits
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u ,   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-11-18T18:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/sec-sues-steven-rattner-in-new-york-for-kickbacks-with-politcal-consultant.html
Steven Rattner , the former head of
Quadrangle Group LLC, will pay $6.2 million and accept a two-
year ban from associating with broker-dealers or investment
advisers to resolve a Securities and Exchange Commission probe
of kickbacks in connection with the New York state pension fund.  The sanctions include a payment of $3.2 million in
disgorgement and a $3 million fine, the SEC said. New York
Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  sued Rattner today as well,
seeking at least $26 million and his immediate lifetime ban from
the securities industry in New York, according to an e-mailed
statement.  Richard Bamberger , a spokesman for Cuomo, said there
was no settlement planned with Rattner.  “While settling with the SEC begins the process of putting
this matter behind me, I will not be bullied simply because the
attorney general’s office prefers political considerations
instead of a reasoned assessment of the facts,” Rattner said in
an e-mailed statement. “This episode is the first time during
35 years in business that anyone has questioned my ethics or
integrity.”  Cuomo’s lawsuits were filed on the day General Motors Co.,
which went bankrupt last year, advanced as much as 9.1 percent
in its return to public trading following a $20 billion initial
public offering. Rattner is the former head of the U.S.
government’s auto task force that oversaw GM’s restructuring.  SEC Complaint  According to an SEC complaint filed in Manhattan federal
court, Rattner and Quadrangle won $150 million in investments
from the state pension fund in 2005 and 2006 as part of a pay-
to-play scheme.  “Rattner delivered special favors and conducted sham
transactions that corrupted the retirement fund’s investment
process,” said  David Rosenfeld , associate director of the SEC’s
regional office in New York.  As part of the settlement, Rattner agreed to be barred from
acting as an investment adviser or broker for at least two
years. Offices set up by wealthy families to manage their money
are generally exempt from having to register as investment
advisers.  Today’s news follows a plea deal between Cuomo and Henry
‘Hank’ Morris, a former political consultant, under which Morris
is to plead guilty to charges related to the probe that carry a
maximum sentence of 1 1/3 to four years in prison.  Cuomo said in a statement today that he added Rattner as a
defendant in a forfeiture action pending in New York state court
against Morris and  David Loglisci , former head of alternative
investments at the state pension fund.  $13 Million  The attorney general also filed a lawsuit seeking $13
million in civil recoveries and millions of dollars in future
fees and profits, according to the statement. Additionally,
Cuomo said he filed an application for Rattner’s immediate ban
from the securities industry in New York.  “The application for an immediate securities ban is based
on the fact that Rattner engaged in fraud and refused to answer
68 questions based on his Fifth Amendment privilege,” Cuomo
said in the statement. “Rattner was willing to do whatever it
took to get his hands on pension fund money including paying
kickbacks, orchestrating a movie deal, and funneling campaign
contributions.”  Rattner said in his statement that he would fight Cuomo’s
“politically motivated” lawsuits.  Morris was at the center of Cuomo’s probe of corruption at
the state pension fund. He was facing more than 70 charges
related to the investigation. On the top charge, he faced as
many as 25 years in prison.  Morris reaped $19 million in fees for himself through 23
state pension-fund investments for which he acted as an
undisclosed placement agent, or middleman, according to Cuomo.  ‘Most Important Cases’  “This case is, in this court’s opinion, one of the most
important cases relating to corruption in government in the
state of New York and perhaps one of the almost seminal cases
involving that in the country,” New York State Supreme Court
Justice  Lewis Stone  said at a hearing related to Morris’s deal.  Rattner, 58, arranged to retain Morris, the former chief
political consultant to ex-New York Comptroller  Alan Hevesi , as
a placement agent. Rattner also tried to set up a DVD
distribution deal with a company owned by one of Quadrangle’s
private-equity funds, for a movie produced by Loglisci and his
brothers, according to the SEC.  When the company said it wasn’t interested, Rattner sent an
e-mail to the head of the firm, instructing him to “dance
along” while he figured out whether Quadrangle needed to do the
deal to secure an investment from the retirement fund, according
to the SEC’s court filing.  Hevesi Plea  Hevesi, 69, pleaded guilty last month to participating in
the scheme at the pension fund, which he once ran. He was the
highest-ranking official convicted in the three-year
investigation by Cuomo, who was elected governor of New York
earlier this month.  Morris is awaiting trial on charges he corrupted the
investment process to benefit money managers who made campaign
contributions and politically connected placement agents who
received lucrative fees, including himself.  At least six other people besides Hevesi have pleaded guilty
in connection with the state probe, 15 firms besides Quadrangle
have settled and more than $139 million has been paid to the
fund and the state, according to Cuomo.  Quadrangle has no comment, according to outside company
spokesman Andy Merrill.  ‘Inappropriate, Wrong, Unethical’  Quadrangle’s settlement with the SEC and Cuomo, publicly
announced on April 15, was accompanied by a statement by
Quadrangle saying Rattner’s conduct was “inappropriate, wrong
and unethical.” Cuomo’s office required Quadrangle to make the
statement as a condition of the settlement, according to two
people familiar with the matter. Quadrangle agreed to pay $7
million to Cuomo and $5 million to the SEC without admitting or
denying wrongdoing.  Quadrangle Asset Management has handled the personal and
philanthropic finances of New York Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg ,
whom Rattner supported through his chairmanship of Democrats for
Bloomberg during the 2005 re-election campaign.  Bloomberg is the majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News.  “Mr. Rattner now has a lot to say,”  Richard Bamberger ,
Cuomo’s director of communications, said in a statement today.
“But when he was questioned under oath about his pension fund
dealings he was much less talkative, taking the Fifth and
refusing to answer questions 68 different times.” Bamberger
called Rattner’s claims that he did nothing wrong
“ridiculous.”  ‘Repeated Threats’  “Given the attorney general made repeated threats of
prosecution, of course Mr. Rattner’s lawyers advised him not to
speak,” said Davidson Goldin, a spokesman for Rattner.  Goldin said the decision to file the suit on the day of the
General Motors IPO “is further proof the attorney general puts
politics and media coverage ahead of the public interest.”  The cases are U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Rattner, 10-CV-08699, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan); and People v. Morris, 0025/2009, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 