-- Singapore Says Economy to Expand 4% to 6% in 2011
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2010-11-18T02:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/singapore-forecasts-economy-to-grow-4-to-6-in-2011-extending-expansion.html
Singapore said its economy will
expand a record 15 percent this year, the fastest pace in Asia,
even as slowing global growth threatens to damp export demand.
The island’s currency rose.  Gross domestic product  will grow 4 percent to 6 percent in
2011, the trade ministry said in a statement. The economy,
vulnerable to swings in demand for its drugs and electronics,
shrank less than previously estimated in the third quarter. The
nation, which has had three recessions in the past decade, won’t
experience one this year, the government said today.  The expansion has fueled inflation and prompted the central
bank to allow faster currency gains even as neighbors  Malaysia 
and Thailand refrained from tightening policy this quarter.
While the global economy is “vulnerable” to risks of a slump in
the U.S. and a sovereign-debt crisis in Europe, Asian demand
will drive the region’s growth in 2011, Singapore’s trade
ministry said.  “It’s clear that Singapore remains fairly upbeat on growth
and it seems the concerns are more on the inflation front,” said
 Selena Ling , head of treasury research at Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. in Singapore. “The question is how long we expect
Singapore and the rest of Asia to chug along notwithstanding
the slowdown in the developed economies.”  The island’s currency has gained about 8 percent against
the U.S. dollar this year, and closed at a record S$1.2835 on
Nov. 4. It rose as much as 0.3 percent to S$1.2987 a dollar
before trading at S$1.3005 as of 10:48 a.m. local time.  Currency Appreciation  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  said last month it will
steepen and widen the currency’s trading band while continuing
to seek a “modest and gradual appreciation.” Singapore uses
its currency rather than a benchmark interest rate as its main
tool to manage inflation.  “The MAS will have to stay tight, given rosy growth
projections and intensifying inflation pressures,” said  Chua Hak Bin , a director of global research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in Singapore. “We think the risk is for further
tightening” at the next policy review in April, he said today.  Singapore’s  GDP shrank  at an annualized rate of 18.7
percent in the third quarter from the previous three months,
less than the 19.8 percent pace initially estimated last month,
the trade ministry said. The Southeast Asian nation’s  economy 
grew 10.6 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  The island’s 15 percent forecast growth rate this year
would be the fastest in the world after Qatar’s, according to
International Monetary Fund estimates.  Europe, U.S. Risk  Asian economies have led a global recovery that’s been
restrained by subdued expansions in Europe and the U.S., where
the jobless rate remains above 9 percent. While the Bank of
Korea increased interest rates for the second time in 2010 this
week after inflation surged past the central bank’s ceiling,
joining India and Australia in extending monetary tightening,
others have paused.  Malaysia’s central bank last week left borrowing costs
unchanged for a second meeting, and  Thailand  last month
refrained from a third straight increase. Policy makers in the
Philippines to Indonesia have avoided raising rates at all this
year, in part to avoid offering a greater lure to inflows of
speculative capital.  Singapore hasn’t had to take “extraordinary measures”
against liquidity inflows, central bank Deputy Managing Director
 Ong Chong Tee  said today. Concerns that capital flows to
emerging markets are surging have been overstated and banks are
“intermediating” the capital movements, though authorities are
keeping a “close eye” on inflows,  Ravi Menon , permanent
secretary at the trade ministry, said at a briefing today.  Trade Dependence  Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong  has said the Singapore
economy cannot maintain this year’s pace of expansion. The
island’s dependence on overseas trade, with non-oil exports
equivalent to more than half of GDP, makes it vulnerable to
swings in global growth.  Non-oil shipments may rise between 23 percent and 24
percent in 2010 and as much as 8 percent next year, the
government said today. Exporters are able to maintain their
competitiveness even as the Singapore dollar climbs because
regional currencies are also appreciating, Ong said.  The IMF last month lowered its 2011 forecast for global
growth, citing high unemployment, public debt and fragile
banking systems as risks. Ireland’s government is under
increasing pressure to tap the European Union’s emergency fund
as it struggles to cut its budget deficit and investors grow
concerned about the state of the country’s banks.  Irish Risk  EU and IMF officials will start scanning the books of
Ireland’s debt-laden banks today in Dublin in a prelude to a
possible aid package to stem Europe’s widening fiscal crisis.  “The global economy remains vulnerable to several downside
risks, notably a reversion to recessionary conditions in the
U.S., and concerns of sovereign debt sustainability in the
peripheral EU economies,” the Singapore trade ministry said.  The government said it expects a “modest sequential
upturn” in the fourth quarter, helped by financial services and
pharmaceuticals. The economy will avoid a 2010 technical
recession, defined as two consecutive quarters of GDP
contraction, Menon said.  Asian demand will drive the region’s growth next year, and
China will be a “pillar of support” for regional economies,
Menon said.  Manufacturing Capacity  Manufacturing , which accounts for about a quarter of
Singapore’s economy, climbed 14.3 percent from a year earlier in
the three months through September, after surging 46.1 percent
in the second quarter.  The construction industry gained 7.1 percent, while
services grew 10.1 percent. The city’s two casino resorts run by
 Genting Singapore Plc  and Las Vegas Sands Corp. have attracted
millions to their gaming centers, while employment growth is
boosting spending at malls and restaurants.  Singapore’s construction industry may shrink next year and
the private home market may ease, the trade ministry said today.
In August, the government announced measures to cool the
property market, including increasing down payments for second
mortgages and imposing a stamp duty on property held for less
than three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  