-- Singh's Image Takes a `Beating' as Indian Airwaves Sale Roils Government
-- B y   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y   a n d   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 2010-11-19T13:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/singh-image-takes-a-beating-as-airwaves-sale-roils-government.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
is facing his first crisis since re-election as the government
comes under fire for awarding public phone licenses at below-
market prices in deals that may have cost the state $31 billion.  The Supreme Court yesterday gave Singh time until tomorrow
to explain why he didn’t respond to calls for prosecution of his
telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja . The minister
resigned a day before India’s chief auditor said the 2008 sale
of airwaves “lacked transparency and was undertaken in an
arbitrary, unfair and inequitable manner.”  “Singh’s personal image has taken a beating after this
incident, as this happened right under his nose,” said N.
Bhaskara Rao, a political analyst and chairman of the Centre for
Media Studies in New Delhi. “More than being a big
embarrassment for the government, this incident has highlighted
how ineffective the prime minister really is.”  The opposition has stalled proceedings in parliament and is
demanding a deeper probe. That’s threatening to cripple the
Congress Party-led coalition government, whose current term ends
in 2014. Political inaction may derail economic growth, said
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , a New Delhi-based chief strategist at
SMC Global Securities Ltd.  “There’s no doubt there’s a concern,” said Thunuguntla.
“As India’s influence grows, the world is keeping a closer
watch on it. The political administration needs to play a more
constructive role.”  Political Wrangling  India’s benchmark  Sensitive Index  fell 1.7 percent to a
two-month low. It has declined 3.6 percent since Nov. 15, when
the  Comptroller and Auditor General of India  submitted its
report on the award of airwaves licenses. The yield on the 7.80
percent note due May 2020 was little changed at 8.03 percent as
of the 5:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central
bank’s trading system.  The main opposition group,  Bharatiya Janata Party , led
protests that left both houses of the legislature in limbo for a
seventh day. The party’s demand for a Joint Parliamentary
Committee probe has been rejected by the government.  Singh, a trained economist, has shunned political wrangling.
He’s left the task of running the coalition government to  Sonia Gandhi  -- the president of the Congress Party -- and Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee . That’s allowed Singh to focus on
warding off the global economic crisis and forging closer ties
with the U.S.  Clean?  The  Sensex  index has quadrupled since Singh, 78, assumed
office on May 22, 2004. The Oxford-educated prime minister
presided over an 8.5 percent  economic growth  in the past five
years and helped India win a place in the Group of 20.  The allegations of corruption may erode the political
headway Singh made during President  Barack Obama ’s visit this
month, when he persuaded the U.S. to support India’s bid for a
permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council.  “What everybody realizes is that while he is clean, the
party he is in is not exactly known to be clean,” said  Surjit Singh Bhalla , New Delhi-based chairman and managing director of
Oxus Research and Investments Ltd. “The question you should be
asking is should Sonia Gandhi resign and not whether Singh
should.”  Prakash Javdekar, a spokesman for the  Bharatiya Janata
Party , said they only want a parliamentary probe and won’t
demand Singh’s resignation. Whenever such aberrations take place,
the government takes corrective actions, Finance Minister
Mukherjee said at a conference in New Delhi today.  ‘Conscience Clear’  The Indian government collected 123.9 billion rupees ($2.7
billion) from the sale of the second-generation wireless
spectrum, the  Comptroller and Auditor General of India  said in a
report to parliament in New Delhi this week. The Department of
Telecommunications, headed by Raja, allowed some bidders to
“jump the queue” and awarded 85 of the 122 licenses to
“ineligible” companies, according to the report.  In contrast, India raised 677.2 billion rupees selling
third-generation wireless airwaves in May. Phone companies in
Europe paid more than $100 billion for similar high-speed
spectrum in auctions across the continent in 2000.  “My conscience is clear,” Raja said after resigning on
Nov. 14, adding he will prove he didn’t break any rules. Raja is
a member of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the political party
that rules the southern state of Tamil Nadu and is a partner in
Singh’s federal governing coalition with 18 seats in the lower
house of parliament.  Suppressed Facts  The auditor calculated the maximum estimated loss based on
the prices at which the third-generation airwaves were sold in
May. Based on another model, the under-pricing of 2G spectrum
led to a loss of 535.2 billion rupees, according to the report.  “These companies, created barely months ago, deliberately
suppressed facts, disclosed incomplete information, submitted
fictitious documents and used fraudulent means for getting
licenses and thereby access to spectrum,” according to the
report. Owners of the licenses, “obtained at an unbelievably
low price, have in turn sold significant stakes in their
companies to Indian or foreign companies at a high premium.”  The nation’s telecommunications regulator recommended
canceling almost 70 of the licenses of five companies, the Press
Trust of India reported yesterday, without saying where it got
the information. Satyendra Prakash, a spokesman at the
Department of Telecommunications, couldn’t comment immediately.  ‘Biggest Scandal’  The Central Bureau of Investigation has been examining the
role Raja and the Ministry of Communications had in the pricing
of the permits since October last year while the Supreme Court
has been hearing public interest petitions on the subject.  Singh’s office needs to submit his response to the court
tomorrow and the hearing on the case will resume on Nov. 22.
Attorney General  Ghulam E. Vahanvati  said today in New Delhi
that he will represent Singh in the apex court, replacing
Solicitor General Gopal Subramanium.  “This is the biggest scandal in recent times and Singh’s
judgment is seriously under question for the first time,” said
 Mahesh Rangarajan , a professor at Delhi University. “What has
happened also strengthens the claims of his ineffectiveness.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Abhijit Roy Chowdhury  in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net ;
 P.S. Patnaik  in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan in New Delhi at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  