-- Sinking Yields Fail to Persuade Lorenzino to Sell Abroad: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-11-18T13:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/sinking-yields-fail-to-convince-lorenzino-to-sell-abroad-argentina-credit.html
The biggest decline in Argentine
borrowing  costs  in a year isn’t enough to persuade the
government to return to the international bond market in the
next 12 months, Finance Secretary  Hernan Lorenzino  said.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 23 basis points since
Oct. 17, a fifth consecutive monthly  drop , according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The stretch of declines is the longest since the
period ending October 2009.  While emerging-market governments have raised $79.2 billion
selling bonds abroad this year, the most since 2005, Argentina
has refrained from tapping overseas markets as the fastest
economic growth in five years boosts tax revenue and pushes
foreign reserves to a record. President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is taking $6.6 billion of reserves this year and plans
to use another $7.5 billion next year to make debt payments.  “Our message to the market is, our financing needs for
next year can be entirely covered by internal financing
sources,” Lorenzino said during an interview in the Economy
Ministry in Buenos Aires yesterday. “We are going to be
opportunistic in the sense that we will take advantage of good
market conditions, and if costs aren’t in line with what we
think is just, we will look to our own financing sources, of
which there are many.”  Argentine  bond yields  have tumbled 266 basis points, or
2.66 percentage points, since June, when Fernandez completed a
$12.2 billion debt restructuring stemming from its 2001 default.
Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  has said the settlement allows
Argentina to sell bonds overseas for the first time since it
halted payments on $95 billion of obligations nine years ago.  Lowest Yield  Fernandez, who postponed plans to sell up to $1 billion of
2017 bonds as part of the restructuring in June, said Sept. 24
she wasn’t interested in selling debt abroad at an 8 percent
yield. The government’s 8.75 percent bonds yielded 7.56 percent
on Nov. 5, the lowest since they were issued as compensation for
past-due interest to creditors who took part in the swap,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Rates for Argentina’s sovereign debt have come down
dramatically in the last several months,”  Bret Rosen , a Latin
America debt strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “Their view, which is a little
bit unorthodox, is that we’re going to use central bank reserves
to finance ourselves partially in 2010, 2011, and that, at least
in their view point, removes the urgency with which they would
need to issue new global bonds.”  Argentina’s  reserves  rose to $52 billion this month.  ‘Take For Granted’  Renewed concern of a deepening debt crisis in Ireland,
Greece and Portugal has driven up borrowing for emerging-market
countries, including Argentina, over the past two weeks. The
yield on Argentina’s bonds due in 2017 rose to a three-week high
of 8.52 percent on Nov. 16.  “The recent volatility that we’ve experienced is such a
reminder that you have to access those markets while you can,”
 Siobhan Morden , head of Latin America strategy at RBS Securities
Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone interview.
“If they had come sooner, they could have gone at a yield of 7
1/2, now we’re back up to 8 1/2. You cannot take for granted,
especially being a high-beta credit, that you’ll be able to come
to international credit markets at these prices.”  Lorenzino, who served as Argentina’s financial
representative in Washington before becoming Finance Secretary
in 2008, said Argentina is looking to resolve negotiations with
the Paris Club group over $6.7 billion of defaulted debt before
April to help boost investment in South America’s second-biggest
economy.  ‘Optimistic’  An accord with the Paris Club, an informal association of
creditors that includes Germany, Japan and the U.S, would remove
an “obstacle” to investment in Argentina by companies in
energy and infrastructure, Lorenzino, 38, said.  “I’m optimistic that there is goodwill on both sides,” he
said.  Argentine bonds rose today, pushing yields relative to
Treasuries down 36 basis points to 520 at 8:15 a.m. New York
time, according to JPMorgan.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt fell
1 basis point yesterday to 709, according to CMA. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The peso climbed 0.1 percent today to 3.9721 per dollar.  Economic Growth  Warrants linked to economic growth fell 0.06 cent today to
12.9 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Argentina’s economy will grow about 9 percent this year
amid a record 55-million metric ton soybean harvest and surging
automobile sales to neighboring Brazil, Lorenzino said. That
compares with expansions of 7.3 percent in Brazil, 8 percent in
Peru and 5 percent in Mexico. Argentina had a budget surplus
equal to 0.2 percent of gross domestic product in the 12 months
through September, according to Morgan Stanley.  Carola Sandy , an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York, estimates Argentina’s borrowing requirements will rise to
$14.4 billion in 2011 from $11.8 billion this year.  “The objective, once financing costs reach a level that we
think Argentina should pay, is to have more balance between
public and private financing,” Lorenzino said. “But as long as
the conditions to access to private financing aren’t in line
with our expectations about the cost we should pay, we will
continue to use internal sources of financing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  