-- Small-Car Competition Revs Up With Fiat 500 LA Show Debut
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2010-11-18T22:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/small-car-competition-revs-up-with-fiat-500-introduction-at-l-a-auto-show.html
Executives for the Smart and Mini
small-car brands expect interest in the U.S. subcompact segment
to heat up with the arrival of the Fiat 500 from Italy.  Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S. automaker operated by Fiat
SpA, begins production next month and the small car should begin
arriving in showrooms in January with a starting price of
$15,500, Chrysler has said.  “A lot of people come looking at small cars when there’s a
new entrant,”  Jim McDowell , head of Mini’s U.S. operations,
said today in an interview at the Los Angeles Auto Show.  “It is really a darling little car, but I don’t know that
people are looking for a car that much smaller than a Mini
hardtop,” McDowell said. “And $15,000 sounds attractive, but
when you start to equip the cars the same, it’s not much more
expensive to get a Mini.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s  2011 Mini Cooper has a
starting manufacturer’s suggested retail price of $20,100, while
 Daimler AG’s  2010 Smart ForTwo Pure Coupe starts at $11,900,
according to the companies’ websites.  The subcompact and specialty small-car segments are likely
to grow to 1.4 million in 2015 from about 515,500 this year,
said researcher IHS Automotive. McDowell said an improving
industry and increasing gasoline prices should drive new sales.  ‘Poised for Growth’  “The market is actually poised for growth,” said  Jesse Toprak , an analyst with TrueCar.com, a website that tracks
sales. “Consumers’ preferences have changed permanently” in
the wake of a recession and in the midst of a slump, and they
are more likely to continue buying “value-oriented cars.”  Mini’s U.S. sales fell 1.6 percent in the first 10 months
of this year to 38,538, said Autodata Corp. In the same period,
sales of Smart’s U.S. model, the ForTwo, declined 61 percent to
5,146, the Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based researcher said.  “U.S. consumers are still getting used to this size
vehicle on America’s highways and byways,”  Jill Lajdziak ,
president of Smart USA, said yesterday in an interview. “More
competitors just kind of stir the market place and bring more
awareness to the smaller cars.”  Smart sales have fallen with the decline in the U.S.
economy, especially because the brand is often a household’s
third or fourth vehicle, she said.  “Smart isn’t in a position right now to sustain any more
pressure,”  Rebecca Lindland , an IHS Automotive analyst, said.  In October, Smart USA, a Penske Automotive Group unit that
has the distribution rights for Smart in the U.S., announced a
deal with Nissan Motor Co. for the Japanese automaker to provide
a five-door small car during the fourth quarter of next year.  Mini Credibility  Mini already has some credibility after being in the market
for several years, Lindland said.  The brand is expanding in the U.S. with a new model, more
showrooms and plans to boost dealerships to 115 from 102,
McDowell said. Its largest car, a four-door crossover called the
Countryman, is for consumers who need more room than Mini’s two-
door models and should be in showrooms by Jan. 12, he said.  Chrysler, based in Auburn Hills, Michigan, expects to
market the Fiat 500 to people looking for Italian design,
customization and value, said  Laura Soave , head of Fiat brand in
the U.S. The target is 50,000 sold in the U.S. and Canada during
its first year, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Higgins  in Los Angeles at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  