-- South Africa Bonds Rally Most This Month After Interest-Rate Cut
-- B y   A n a   M o n t e i r o   a n d   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2010-11-18T15:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/south-africa-bonds-rally-most-this-month-after-interest-rate-cut.html
South African bonds rallied the most
this month after the central bank lowered the  benchmark interest 
rate a third time this year. Stocks snapped a two-day drop.  The benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015
climbed 53 cents, the most since Oct. 28, to 126.04 rand,
reducing the yield by 12 basis points to 7.03 percent. The
benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index advanced the most in
two weeks, adding 0.7 percent to 31,574. The rand was 0.4
percent stronger at 6.994 by 5 p.m. after gaining as much as 1
percent before policy makers issued their decision.  Central bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said “there is room for
further stimulus given the weakness in the supply side of the
economy” after policy makers reduced the key rate by 50 basis
points to 5.5 percent, in line with a  median estimate  of 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The size of the recovery in
household consumption limited the scope of the downward movement
in rates, she said in a statement.  The bank’s “tone was dovish and the cut wasn’t entirely
priced into bonds so there was some catch-up,”  George Glynos ,
managing director of Econometrix Treasury Management, which
advises South African banks on foreign-exchange transactions,
said by phone from Johannesburg today. The central bank “left
the door open for more reductions,” he said.  The rand has appreciated 34 percent versus the dollar since
the start of 2009 as near-zero interest rates in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan spurred demand for higher-yielding assets in
emerging markets.  “In the broader picture, the cut has no impact on the
rand’s yield play, it’s still up there with the higher
yielders,”  Duncan Howes , a currency trader at Absa Capital,
said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg.  Inflation  The rand’s gains have helped contain inflation, which
slowed to 3.2 percent in September, the lowest in more than five
years and within the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent
target range.  Inflation  will average 4.3 percent in 2011 and
stay within the band until at least the end of 2012, said the
Reserve Bank, which has reduced the repurchase rate nine times
since December 2008.  “We expect a lower outcome for inflation and hence believe
there is scope for further easing,”  Annabel Bishop , an
economist at Investec Ltd., said in an e-mailed note from
Johannesburg today.  Inflation will probably slow further into next year, said
Econometrix’s Glynos. “We expect the benchmark interest rate to
remain flat at the next meeting in January and after that we
believe a rate cut is possible,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ana Monteiro  in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net 
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  