-- South Africa Inflation-Linked Bonds Preferred by Coronation as Price Hedge
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-11-18T11:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/south-africa-s-inflation-linked-bonds-are-favored-by-coronation-asset.html
South African investors should buy
inflation-linked bonds to guard against rising global food
prices and the effect of a possible sell-off in the rand in the
continent’s biggest economy, Coronation Fund Managers said.  “Over the next 12 to 18 months we could easily see
inflation climb to around 5 percent,” Mark le Roux, who helps
manage the equivalent of $28 billion in assets as head of fixed-
income at Coronation Fund Managers, said in an interview at the
company’s office in Cape Town yesterday. “At current bond
yields that means your margin of safety is getting a bit thin.”  South African government bonds have gained this year,
pushing yields to record lows, as a 35 percent rally in the rand
since the start of 2009 reduced the price of oil and other
imports, helping  inflation  ease to a five-year low of 3.2
percent in September. Slowing price growth enabled the central
bank to cut its  benchmark interest rate  eight times since
December 2008 to a record low of 6 percent, further boosting the
appeal of securities that guarantee a fixed return.  Inflation-linked bonds include the 2.5 percent note due
2017, the 2.6 percent security maturing 2028, and the 3.45
percent bond due 2033, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The country’s nominal bonds, or those not tied to price rises,
are looking “slightly expensive,” le Roux said.  The benchmark 13.5 percent nominal bond due September 2015,
which has gained 2.4 percent this year, rose today, snapping a
four-day decline, with the yield dropping one basis point to
7.13 percent at 12:47 p.m. in Johannesburg.  The Pretoria-based central bank will probably lower its key
rate by a further 50 basis points after its two-day policy
meeting ends today, according to the median estimate of 22
economists in a  Bloomberg survey .  Inflation Risk  Rising global food prices and a possible sell-off in the
rand will probably push the inflation rate higher, according to
le Roux. The United Nations’ Food and Agricultural
Organization’s world  food price index  in October climbed to the
highest level since July 2008.  “The risk to inflation stems mainly from higher soft
commodity prices like grains, which are an important feed stock
for poultry and beef so there is likely to be a knock-on
effect,” said le Roux. “The rand is fundamentally overvalued
and at some point it has to move closer to a fair-value level.”  An exchange rate of “somewhere between 8 and 8.50” to the
dollar would be a more comfortable value for South Africa’s
currency, said le Roux. The rand traded 0.5 percent stronger at
6.9805 from a close of 7.0135 yesterday.  Inflation Concern  Accelerating inflation and a decline in the rand may prompt
foreign investors, who have purchased 72.2 billion rand ($10.3
billion) of  South African bonds  this year, to dump the
securities, said le Roux.  “If we do see inflation turn and if the currency starts to
weaken you want to be dancing pretty close to the door,” said
le Roux.  Investec Asset Management, which oversees about $70 billion
in assets, is more bullish on the outlook for bonds, forecasting
inflation will likely remain within the “bottom half” of the
central bank’s 3 to 6 percent target range band for the next 18
months. The yield on South Africa’s 2026 bond may drop a further
100 basis points to 7 percent over the next six months, Investec
said Nov. 15.  “Nominal bonds still offer reasonable value at the long-
end of the curve,”  Jonathan Myerson , head of fixed-interest
investing at Cadiz Holdings Ltd., which oversees about $7
billion, said in an interview in the city yesterday. The longer-
dated bonds the brokerage “likes” include the government’s
note due 2026, the 2036 bond and the 2031 bond, Myerson said.  Even so, inflation-linked bonds “do offer slightly better
value” because there’s potential for a pickup in price growth,
Myerson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  