-- South Africa Cuts Rates to Record as Rand Surge Keeps Inflation in Check
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2010-11-18T14:37:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/south-africa-cuts-rates-to-record-as-rand-surge-keeps-inflation-in-check.html
South Africa’s central bank cut
its benchmark interest rate for the third time this year to spur
economic growth after a rally in the rand pushed inflation to
the lowest in more than five years, while saying there was
limited room for further reductions.  The repurchase rate was lowered by half a point to 5.5
percent, Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said in a televised
press conference from the capital, Pretoria, today. That was in
line with the forecasts of 17 of 22 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The others expected the rate to stay unchanged.  “There is room for further stimulus given the weakness in
the supply side of the economy,” Marcus said. “The scope for
further downward movement, however, is seen to be limited, given
the size of recovery in household consumption.”  The rand has gained about 35 percent against the dollar
since the start of 2009, cutting the cost of imports and helping
to push the inflation rate to the bottom of the bank’s target
band of 3 percent to 6 percent. The advance has also damped
manufacturing, which grew an annual 1.4 percent in September,
the slowest pace in 11 months, fueling calls by labor unions for
the central bank to do more to spur growth and create jobs.  “Given that the economy is not that strong” the bank made
the right decision, said Rian le Roux, chief economist at Old
Mutual Investment Group in Cape Town. “The big question is what
happens from here. Rates have now been cut quite a lot. We are
now probably on hold for some time.”  Corporate Costs  Companies such as Johannesburg-based  Anglo Platinum Ltd. 
and  Sasol Ltd. , which incur costs in rand and make dollar-
denominated sales, have said that the rand’s strength is eroding
their profit margins. Grain SA, a farmers’ group, said on
Oct. 13 that the rally in the currency was hindering efforts to
export a 4.5 million metric-ton grain surplus.  The rand traded at 6.9718 per dollar at 3:56 p.m. from
6.9765 before the announcement of the rates decision.  “The currency is a huge factor in the containment of
inflation,” Marcus said. “Inflation is expected to remain at
an average of 4.3 percent in 2011 and to increase to 4.8 percent
in 2012.”  Inflation slowed to 3.2 percent in September, the lowest
rate since June 2005, and has remained within the target band
since February. The Reserve Bank has reduced the repurchase rate
nine times since December 2008.  ‘Varied’ Responses  The rate cut narrows the differential with rates in
advanced countries and may ease pressure on the rand. South
Africa’s benchmark compares with rates between zero and 0.25
percent in the U.S., 1 percent in countries using the  euro  and
0.1 percent in Japan.  “The rate cut is not intended to weaken the exchange
rate,” Marcus said. “If you look at where we have cut and
haven’t cut, the rand has varied in its response.”  Growth in South Africa slowed to an annualized 3.2 percent
in the second quarter from 4.6 percent in the previous three
months as mining exports slumped. Marcus said today that she
expects growth of 2.8 percent this year and that the outlook
remains subdued.  Weak growth pushed the  jobless rate  to 25.3 percent in the
second quarter, the highest of 62 countries tracked by
Bloomberg.  Labor unions have called for a weaker rand, lower interest
rates and increased government spending. Instead, the government
aims to narrow the budget deficit to 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March 2012 from 5.3 percent
this fiscal year.  ‘Best Judgment’  A smaller shortfall would give “more space to the central
bank” to cut rates, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in
Cape Town on Oct. 27.  When the bank last cut rates two months ago, Marcus also
said that the scope for further interest rates cuts was limited.  “We can’t hold onto positions that are rigid,” she said
today. “This is our best judgment at this point in time. These
are unusual times with very rapidly changing information. If
data changes, we would have to look at it again.”  Nedbank Group Ltd., South Africa’s fourth-largest bank,
said further rate cuts are unlikely.  “Indications are that the South African Reserve Bank has
reached the end of its cutting cycle,” Nedbank said in e-mailed
comments. “Another cut would require negative growth surprises
both globally and locally or perhaps significant further rand
appreciation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 