-- Spain Sells 3.7 Billion Euros of Bonds Yielding Less Than Secondary Market
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-11-18T10:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/spain-sells-bonds-at-lower-yields-than-traded-debt-amid-talks-on-ireland.html
Spain sold 3.65 billion euros ($4.97
billion) of bonds at an auction today at lower yields than
similar traded securities after Ireland’s central bank governor
said the nation may seek an international bailout.  The government sold 2.59 billion euros of 10-year bonds and
1.07 billion euros of 30-year debt, just below the maximum
target of 4 billion euros, the Treasury said today. The 10-year
bond had an average yield 4.615 percent and the 30-year bonds
5.488 percent. On the secondary market, 10-year debt yielded
4.680 percent before the sale, easing to 4.660 percent
afterward.  “The demand was pretty strong and the bonds were issued at
a lower yield than in the market, so that’s a pretty good
result,” said  Huw Worthington , a fixed income strategist at
Barclays Capital in London. “Spain has a decent liquidity
position at the moment, so I don’t think they’re going to be
desperate to issue as much as possible.”  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Spanish debt over
German bunds remains near a euro-era record as contagion from
Ireland’s fiscal and financial crisis spreads. While Spain has
cut public wages and is slashing infrastructure spending to
reduce its budget deficit by half in two years, its spread has
widened one and a half times since July 27.  More Sales  After the sale, the 10-year bond pared losses, with the
yield up 1 basis point to 4.66 percent. The  spread  over German
debt narrowed to 200 basis points, from 202 basis points
yesterday. Demand for the 10-year bond was 1.84 times the amount
sold today and 2.05 times for the 30-year bonds.  Spain still has around 8.35 billion euros of bonds to sell
at the remaining two auctions this year, according to estimates
by  Chiara Cremonesi , a strategist at UniCredit Bank AG in
London. By comparison, Ireland says it is fully funded until the
middle of 2011 and Portugal has completed its last bond sale of
the year.  Irish central bank Governor Patrick Honohan said today he
expects the country to ask for a bailout from the European Union
and the International Monetary Fund amounting to “tens of
billions” of euros to rescue its struggling banks.  Germany has been pushing for bond investors to help cover
the costs of bailouts after 2013, when a permanent EU rescue
mechanism takes effect. The talk of “burden sharing” prompted
a debt-market selloff for high-deficit nations that are
perceived as most likely to tap the fund.  Deficit Reduction  Spain’s borrowing costs have risen less than those of other
so-called peripheral nations as the  country  progresses more
quickly than Ireland, Portugal or Greece with its deficit-
cutting, government data show. Spain’s central government
trimmed the deficit by 42 percent in the first nine months of
2010, compared with 31 percent in Greece and a widening budget
gap in Portugal.  Spain’s overall  budget  shortfall, which also includes the
regional governments and social security, will amount to 9.3
percent of gross domestic product this year, the government
forecasts, up from 11.1 percent last year. The Socialist
government aims to trim that to 6 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Emma Ross-Thomas  in
Madrid at   erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: John Fraher at
   jfraher@bloomberg.net  