-- Sprint’s 4G Lead at Risk Amid Clearwire Cash Crunch
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-18T21:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/sprint-s-technology-lead-at-risk-as-clearwire-faces-cash-crunch.html
When  Sprint Nextel Corp.  took a
stake in  Clearwire Corp.  in May 2008, Sprint’s  Dan Hesse  said
the deal would give his company rights to a next-generation
wireless network without further financial obligation.  So far, the deal has cost Sprint an additional $1.18
billion and the bill may go higher.  Clearwire, which is building a high-speed wireless network
with WiMax technology, said this month it will  run out of cash 
by the middle of next year unless it can raise more. Sprint,
with 54 percent of Clearwire’s stock, may face the prospect of
paying billions to bail the company out or letting it lapse into
bankruptcy, endangering its equity stake.  “It puts them between a rock and a hard place,” said
 Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., who
doesn’t own any Sprint shares and rates them “underperform.”  Clearwire has said it’s trying to raise money on its own.
In a  regulatory filing Nov. 4 , the company said the effort may
not succeed, leading to “substantial doubt” about its ability
to keep operating.  Keeping Clearwire afloat would cost Sprint $1 billion to $2
billion next year, while letting Clearwire go into bankruptcy
may push $9.9 billion in  Sprint’s bonds  into default, Moffett
said. Sprint, based in Overland Park, Kansas, could allow a
rival such as T-Mobile USA buy a stake in Clearwire, though that
may undermine Sprint’s control and hurt its ability to compete.  “Sprint’s hands may be tied here,” said Moffett. “They
may have no choice but to be the financier of last resort.”  Sprint’s Early Lead  Sprint said in  a regulatory filing  it can take steps to
avoid fallout from a Clearwire default. Cristi Allen, a Sprint
spokeswoman, declined to comment beyond the filing.  Mike DiGioia , a spokesman for Clearwire, declined to comment on how
much cash the carrier needs or what Sprint might do.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, has been
ahead in rolling out what’s known as fourth-generation wireless
technology. In June, the company started selling the country’s
first 4G phone, letting customers surf the Web at high speeds on
Clearwire’s network.  AT&T Inc.  and Verizon Wireless, the largest
U.S. carriers, are following with their own 4G networks.  Sprint’s technology lead is at risk because of Clearwire’s
financial troubles, said analyst  Dennis Saputo  of Moody’s
Investors Service. Clearwire is cutting 15 percent of its
workforce and slowing its expansion to conserve cash.  “It’s a relationship that’s a little dysfunctional right
now,” said Saputo in an interview, after Moody’s said it’s
reviewing whether to cut its rating on Sprint.  Tumbling Bonds  The company’s bonds have tumbled, with its 6.875 percent
notes due 2028 down 6.7 percent from Nov. 4, on investor concern
a Clearwire default could affect Sprint. Under a provision from
1998 that ties the fate of Sprint Capital Corp. to subsidiaries,
Sprint’s capital arm could be considered in default if Clearwire
defaults. Sprint Capital’s $9.9 billion in bonds come due
through 2032, according to Bloomberg data.  Sprint can avoid the liability, by selling Clearwire shares
to drop its stake below 50 percent for example, Saputo said, and
it’s unlikely to let Clearwire file for bankruptcy in any case
because of its strategic importance.  “All parties are very interested in Clearwire staying out
of bankruptcy,” he said. “The ability to say you’re rolling
out the nation’s first 4G network, that’s a pretty powerful
line.”  Clearwire  will likely need $4.7 billion through 2012, Saputo
estimates. Sprint would have to pay $2.5 billion of that if it
contributes 54 percent of that amount -- a sum equal to its
ownership stake. The company could also contribute all of the
funding, increasing its ownership to 72 percent, he said.  Initial Investors  Sprint could accommodate those two scenarios without
raising additional funds itself or sacrificing its debt
repayment, Saputo said. If Sprint tried to buy out Clearwire and
assume all of its funding needs through the end of 2012, then
Sprint’s debt repayment would be threatened. The company’s debt
is already rated below investment grade at Moody’s.  Clearwire Chief Executive Officer  Bill Morrow  said in a
 conference call  this month he is “cautiously optimistic” that
the company will be able to resolve its funding issues in the
near future. The company wants to raise $2.5 billion to $5
billion by selling rights to airwaves that aren’t critical to
its network, people familiar with the plans said last month.  Sprint  was part of an initial group of investors, along
with  Google Inc.  and Intel Corp., that put $3.2 billion in
Clearwire to finance its 4G network. Sprint folded its 4G assets
into the venture, giving it the largest stake.  Starting Over  Sprint contributed the $1.18 billion to the Kirkland,
Washington-based company a year ago to help it meet its goal of
covering 120 million people with 4G service by the end of 2010.  Sprint gained 14 cents to $3.86 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4 p.m., while Clearwire rose 26 cents to
$6.99 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Sprint  shares  have risen
5.5 percent this year, and Clearwire increased 3.4 percent.  Sprint may ultimately have to decide if Clearwire is the
best means for offering 4G services. As Clearwire continues to
struggle to generate cash, other companies in the original group
of investors have contributed less, leaving Sprint with the
largest financial burden.  Sprint may not have a viable alternative for offering 4G
services to compete with Verizon Wireless and AT&T. Since
introducing the first 4G phone, the Evo from HTC Corp., Sprint
has started adding customers for the first time since 2007.  “They have finally improved their marketing message and
the marketing message is predicated on their 4G network,” said
 Michael Nelson , an  analyst  at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., who
recently gave Sprint his first “buy” rating in five years.
“Clearwire is the primary driver of Sprint’s business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 