-- Stock Promoter Gushlak Given Six-Year Prison Term for Price Manipulation
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2010-11-18T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/stock-promoter-myron-gushlak-gets-six-year-prison-term-for-manipulation.html
A Canadian-born stock promoter was
sentenced by a U.S. judge to six years in prison for
manipulating the share price of a communications company where
he was a director.  Myron Gushlak  was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge
 Nicholas G. Garaufis  in Brooklyn, New York. Gushlak manipulated
the stock price of Lombard, Illinois-based GlobalNet Inc. from
May 2000 to April 2001, said prosecutors in the office of U.S.
Attorney  Loretta Lynch . Gushlak was a board member at Global Net
during that period.  “Gushlak paid secret kickbacks to brokers in the form of
cash and free stock in exchange for the brokers causing their
clients to purchase blocks of GlobalNet common stock from
Gushlak and others at artificially inflated prices,”
prosecutors said in court papers.  Gushlak, who has been living in the Cayman Islands, was
taken into custody after his sentencing. He pleaded guilty to
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit
money laundering in 2003. Titan Corp., based in San Diego,
bought GlobalNet in 2002. New York-based military contractor  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc.  bought Titan in 2005.  Alan S. Futerfas of Manhattan, a lawyer for Gushlak,
declined to comment after today’s hearing. Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Daniel A. Spector  was the lead prosecutor on the case.  Under Seal  The case has been under seal while Gushlak cooperated with
the government in pursuing other people involved in the scheme.
Garaufis said Gushlak’s cooperation has been “inconsistent”
and that he viewed the secrecy of the case “as a license to
continue to deceive those with whom he conducted business.”  Prosecutors accused Gushlak of breaching his cooperation
agreement.  Futerfas, Gushlak’s lawyer, said in court today that
Gushlak is scheduled to be sentenced in another case in New York
state court on Dec. 3 and that German authorities are
investigating him as part of the securities-fraud prosecution of
Markus Frick, the former host of a German stock-trading TV show
“Make Money.”  In 1998, Gushlak started his own merchant banking group
called Imperium Capital Inc., according to his  website .  The case is U.S. v. Gushlak, 03-cr-833, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 