-- Suzlon Says India Renewable-Energy Trading to Boost Financing
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2010-11-18T14:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/suzlon-says-india-renewable-energy-trading-to-boost-financing.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. , India’s largest
wind-turbine maker, said the start of renewable-energy trading
may boost domestic financing of projects that have faced hurdles
in getting loans.  India’s new trading mechanism will encourage banks to lend
to renewable-energy projects, Chintan Shah, vice president of
strategic business development at Ahmedabad-based Suzlon, said
today by phone. “This will provide some de-risking on the
credit side,” he said.  Investment in the wind industry collapsed at the end of
2008 as the global credit crisis prompted banks to restrict
loans. Indian banks have also been cautious about lending to
renewable-energy projects that tend to rely on a single buyer to
purchase their power either at a preferential tariff or under a
long-term purchase agreement, Shah said.  Starting today, renewable-energy project developers can
register with the government to earn one certificate, known as a
REC, for every megawatt-hour of power sent to the grid.
Certificates can be sold to state distribution companies, which
face mandatory targets to buy some of their electricity from
clean sources such as wind, solar and water.  The renewable-trading mechanism will help reduce the credit
risk of the buyer by introducing an additional revenue stream,
Shah said. “It’ll break down revenue streams into energy sales,
as well as RECs. The entities buying the electricity will be
different from those buying RECs,” he said.  The U.S. and Australia have similar programs for trading
renewable energy. India will allow RECs to be bought and sold on
the power exchanges. There is likely to be enough volume for
trading to start in the first quarter of 2011, Shah said.  The  Central Electricity Regulatory Commission  announced the
rules in January for trading of RECs, which would be divided
into solar and non-solar categories. It fixed a floor price of
12,000 rupees ($265) per solar REC and 1,500 rupees for non-
solar REC. It has also fixed a maximum price of 17,000 rupees
for solar REC and 3,900 rupees for a non-solar REC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net . 