-- Swaps Rank Top Companies Below Clorox, Home Depot: China Credit
-- B y   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2010-11-19T09:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/swaps-signal-top-companies-riskier-than-clorox-home-depot-china-credit.html
China’s first credit-default swaps
show banks in a nation that hasn’t had a local-currency bond
default for at least 13 years view their top-rated companies as
riskier than U.S. borrowers from Clorox Co. to Home Depot Inc.  Contracts insuring debt ranked AAA by Chinese credit
assessment firms are more expensive than those on U.S. companies
ranked at least seven levels lower by Moody’s Investors Service.
Five-year swaps cost an average 83 basis points, or 83,000 yuan
($12,510) a year, per 10 million yuan of debt, according to
quotes from 12 financial institutions. Dollar swaps on  Clorox 
and Home Depot average 67 basis points, according to CMA in New
York.  “It’s a combination of a lack of clarity around bankruptcy
procedures and different loss-given-default assumptions in
China,”  Vijay Chander , head of credit strategy at Standard
Chartered Plc in Hong Kong, said in a phone interview. “The
assumption for losses, given a default, range between 40 percent
and 60 percent in most major economies, but in China it’s
unclear what investors would get.”  China is developing credit derivatives to help investors
manage risk in the 3.3 trillion yuan interbank bond market as
the fastest-growing major economy seeks to foster capital
markets that support an increasing role in the global financial
system. The yuan corporate bond market expanded 54 percent to
$546 billion in the year to June 30, helping fund enterprises in
a nation that’s relied on state bank lending for three decades,
the Asian Development Bank said in a report last month.  ‘Life Jacket’  While Moody’s senior analyst  Ivan Chung  says no company has
defaulted on publicly traded debt since the central bank started
regulating bonds in 1997, investors still need a “life jacket”
as the market expands, Shi Wenchao, secretary-general of the
National Association of Financial Market Institutional Investors,
or NAFMII, wrote in a commentary this month.  Units of Deutsche Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc were among
 14 companies  authorized to write yuan “credit risk mitigation”
swaps starting Nov. 5, according to NAFMII. The approved firms
wrote swaps on 24 bonds and 16 bank loans that day, the
association’s data show. The names of the companies referenced
by the swaps weren’t disclosed.  Moody’s rates Oakland, California-based Clorox, the owner
of about 60 consumer brands ranging from bleach to Glad bags,
and Atlanta-based retailer  Home Depot  at Baa1, its third-lowest
investment grade rating.  Relative Ratings  Swaps on Clorox were last quoted at 78 basis points, while
contracts on Home Depot were at 53 basis points and contracts on
AutoZone Inc cost 71, CMA prices show.  “Not many Chinese companies have a global rating and, in
any case, given the sovereign ceiling, investors won’t consider
them Aaa on a global scale,” Moody’s Chung said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The domestic rating scale in China is
not comparable with the global rating scale.”  China is rated Aa3 by Moody’s, the fourth-highest
investment grade and three rungs below the U.S. Five-year dollar
 swaps on China’s sovereign bonds  fell to 52 basis points on Oct.
13, the lowest in more than two years and within 8 basis points
of contracts on U.S. government debt, Bloomberg data show.  Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. , one of China’s five
official rating companies, reduced its rating for the U.S. to A+
from AA on Nov. 10, citing a deteriorating intent and ability to
repay debt after the Federal Reserve announced more monetary
easing. The Beijing-based company ranks China three grades
higher at AA+.  ‘Fair Level’  Under China’s new system of credit risk mitigation, swaps
“prices are decided by the two parties, with no one in the
middle telling them how to price it,”  Tang Lingyun , deputy head
of global markets at Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.,
said in an interview in Beijing. “No one is forcing them to pay,
so they must think it’s a fair level.”  ICBC signed seven swap contracts referencing 500 million
yuan of debt on Nov. 5, according to NAFMII data.  Sales of bonds in China, including those on the interbank
market, topped 1.68 trillion yuan this year, approaching the
record 1.75 trillion yuan sold in the same period last year,
Bloomberg data show. The number of issues reached an all-time
high of 826 for the year, outpacing the previous record of 725
in all of 2009.  The  interbank market  accounts for more than 95 percent of
trading in Chinese bonds, according to the Asia-Pacific Finance
and Development Center, a public institution under Ministry of
Finance supervision.  Sovereign Risk  Credit swaps on Chinese sovereign debt declined 2.8 basis
points to 58.5 basis points yesterday, CMA prices show. The
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower default.  Chinese 10-year local currency government bonds  yield  3.88
percent, compared with 12.5 percent for similar-maturity
sovereign notes in  Brazil  and 8 percent for notes sold by  India .
The  gap  between  U.S. Treasuries  and China’s bonds has narrowed
to about 101 basis points from a peak of 132.5 basis points on
Nov. 11, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. China, Brazil, India and Russia comprise the
so-called BRIC economies.  Elsewhere in China’s debt markets, one-year interest-rate
 swaps , or the fixed cost needed to receive the floating seven-
day repurchase  rate , rose five basis points to 2.77 percent as
of 4:42 p.m. in Shanghai, the highest since October 2008. Five-
year swaps were little changed at 3.78 percent, down from an
eight-month high of 3.87 percent on Nov. 11. That rate is up
from this year’s low of 2.68 percent on Aug. 12, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Chinese corporate
dollar-denominated bonds rather than Treasuries fell 6 basis
points to 473 basis points this month, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  indexes .  The yuan appreciated 2.8 percent versus the dollar since a
two-year peg was relaxed in June, and non-deliverable forwards
show traders are betting on a 2.8 percent increase in the coming
12 months. It declined 0.11 percent to 6.6407 per dollar as of
4:40 p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shelley Smith  in Hong Kong at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  