-- Sweden's Record Debt Growth Can't Withstand Riksbank Rate Rises, RBS Says
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-11-19T09:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/sweden-s-record-debt-growth-can-t-withstand-riksbank-rate-rises-rbs-says.html
Sweden’s  Riksbank  is wrong to hit an
overheated property market and record household-debt growth with
higher interest rates and should shelve its tightening or risk
derailing a recovery, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves , who this month said he
“personally” tracks household debt when deciding on rates,
will today host a workshop in Stockholm on how monetary policy
should address property market swings. The bank has  raised rates 
three times since July 1, bringing the repo rate to 1 percent,
and predicts it will reach 3.4 percent by the end of 2013.  Higher rates didn’t stop third-quarter  household borrowing 
jumping the most on record in the three months through
September. Credit growth has averaged about 10 percent since the
beginning of 2007, even as  unemployment  rose and the economy
suffered its worst recession since World War II. House prices,
which rose for an 18th consecutive quarter in the three months
through October, will fall across the country if the most
indebted borrowers can’t pay their mortgages, according to RBS.  “It’d be ill-advised to keep raising rates in this
environment -- it’s really red alert on financial markets now,”
said RBS Chief Nordic Economist  Par Magnusson , in an interview.
“If the marginal borrowers are overleveraged and they get into
trouble and we see house prices come down because they can no
longer drive the market, it brings down the house values all
across Sweden.”  RBS presented its analysis on the Swedish housing market to
the Riksbank three weeks ago, Stockholm-based Magnusson said.  ‘Ham-Fisted’  The country’s property market will probably fall as the 20
percent of borrowers with the biggest debts struggle with
burdens as much as 46 times their disposable incomes, RBS said
in an August report.  About 60 percent of Swedish mortgages are based on
adjustable rates. That makes Swedes more vulnerable to rising
borrowing costs than in Germany, for example, where 90 percent
of mortgage holders have fixed-rate loans.  Raising borrowing costs to tackle property market
imbalances “is too ham-fisted a tool to achieve the end of
reducing bubble risks in the mortgage sector,” Magnusson said.
“They hike for everyone -- including all the prudent borrowers
and the industrial sector -- in order to get at a small minority
of imprudent borrowers.”  Lehman Brothers  Since it started providing numerical rate forecasts in
2007, the Riksbank has revised its rate path 14 times out of 22.
The bank in 2008 raised rates 11 days before the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., only to cut its repo rate by 2.75
percentage points the following quarter.  The Riksbank is pursuing tightening as Europe’s debt crisis
sends money market rates higher and weakens the euro. Europe’s
single currency has lost 4 percent since Nov. 4 as Ireland’s
fiscal turmoil forces it to resort to a bailout to keep its
banking sector afloat. The three-month  Euro Interbank Offered
Rate  touched 1.05 percent on Nov. 4, compared with 0.634 percent
at the end of March.  Sweden’s mortgage bond market is under pressure. After the
Riksbank on Oct. 6 became the world’s first to end emergency
loans, short-term rates soared to the highest since January,
sending borrowing costs up in other parts of the economy.  The Riksbank’s Oct. 26 announcement that it will scale back
further raises to adjust to a slower global recovery remains too
“hawkish,” Magnusson said.  Forward rate agreements indicate the bank may raise the
benchmark rate to 1.25 percent in December. Next month’s forward
rate is at 1.61 percent. The contract settles to the three-month
 Stockholm interbank offered rate , which has averaged about 0.30
percentage point more than the key rate this decade.  ‘More Dovish’  “I think the Riksbank will pause after December, they
should be more dovish and stop raising rates now,” he said.  Still, economists are split on how the bank should respond
to its overheated property market. Some say rising house prices
and indebtedness require higher rates to prevent a bubble.  “Credit growth is likely to continue to be high in the
near future, in our view,” said  Torbjoern Isaksson , an
economist at Nordea Bank AB in Stockholm. “The Riksbank should
take credit growth and house prices into account a bit more than
they do now.”  The bank has emphasized its focus on the credit and housing
markets in recent speeches.  If the rate of credit growth “does not slow down, I
believe that there is a risk of  financial imbalances  arising,”
Ingves said in a Nov. 11 speech. “A gradual increase in the
repo rate will contribute to reducing this risk.”  FSA Cap  To try to cool the housing market, the Financial
Supervisory Authority on Oct. 1 introduced rules to cap mortgage
lending at 85 percent of a property’s value. So far the change
has done little to dent optimism, with 58 percent of Sweden’s
households expecting property prices to rise in the coming 12
months, a Nov. 8 report by SEB AB showed. That compares with 54
percent in October. Only 10 percent of Swedes expect apartment
and house prices to fall in the period, SEB said.  Swedish house price gains, adjusting for inflation, have
exceeded those in the rest of the western world since the middle
of the 1990s, according to RBS. House prices as a percentage of
disposable incomes are at a record high and exceed ratios in the
U.S., the U.K., Spain, Greece, Ireland and Norway, RBS said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  