-- Sweden Issues Arrest Warrant for WikiLeaks' Assange in Rape Investigation
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2010-11-18T15:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/sweden-issues-arrest-warrant-for-wikileaks-assange-in-rape-investigation.html
WikiLeaks founder  Julian Assange  can
be arrested on charges of rape and sexual molestation after a
Swedish court approved an arrest warrant today, paving the way
for an international search for the Australian.  “The background is that he must be interrogated in the
investigation and we haven’t been able to reach him to perform
these interrogations,” Director of Public Prosecution Marianne
Ny said today in a  statement  before the hearing in Stockholm
District Court.  Ny, who heads the Prosecution Authority Development Center
in Gothenburg, Sweden, which handles appeals against prosecutor
decisions on sex crimes, started her preliminary investigation
on Sep. 1. Chief Prosecutor Eva Finne’s decision to drop a rape
charge on Aug. 25 and reduce a molestation charge to a lesser
one was appealed on Aug. 27 by a lawyer representing the two
women who originally made the allegations.  The alleged crimes occurred while Assange was in Sweden
giving lectures on  WikiLeaks’  publishing of classified U.S.
military documents related to the war in Afghanistan.  “Assange denies everything that the prosecutor alleges,”
Bjoern Hurtig, Assange’s lawyer said today in an interview after
the hearing. “We haven’t been able to settle on a date for an
interrogation and apparently the prosecutor ran out of
patience.”  International Warrant  Hurtig, who replaced Leif Silbersky as Assange’s counsel,
declined to say if Assange was currently in Sweden saying he
would speak to his client before deciding on an appeal to the
warrant.  A court’s arrest ruling makes it possible for the
prosecutor to request an international arrest warrant via
European Union cooperation or Interpol, Tommy Kangasvieri at the
National Bureau of Investigation said today in a telephone
interview.  WikiLeaks.org receives confidential material that
governments and businesses want to keep secret and posts the
information on the Internet “so readers and historians alike
can see evidence of the truth,” the organization says on its
website.  Assange’s application for a Swedish residence and work
permit, which would have allowed him to establish WikiLeaks as a
Swedish publication protected by the constitution, was turned
down by the Migration Board.  Hurtig said he was sure an international arrest warrant
would be issued by police and that Assange would come to Sweden
for questioning.  “Sooner or later he will have to come if they continue with
their accusations,” he said. “Since I wasn’t handling the case
from the beginning I don’t know if any new evidence has been
added, but I think the existing evidence is weak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net . 