-- Syniverse Says It Had Eight Potential Suitors Before Carlyle Buyout Offer
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-18T21:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/syniverse-says-it-had-eight-potential-suitors-before-carlyle-buyout-offer.html
Syniverse Holdings Inc. , the
communications-equipment company, had eight potential buyers
before Carlyle Group agreed last month to take the company
private for $31 a share, or $2.6 billion.  In August, Syniverse’s financial adviser, Deutsche
Bank AG, presented the board of directors with six financial
buyers, including Carlyle, that had expressed interest in
acquiring the company, according to a regulatory filing today.
Two other companies in the technology industry also expressed
interest.  The ranks of interested parties thinned out over the
following months as the offers for the company rose from $21.53
a share to more than $30. In the final days, Carlyle and another
technology company, referred to as Company B in the  filing , were
bidding against each other.  The telecommunications industry, which was hurt by lower
spending by carriers and businesses amid a global recession last
year, is recovering amid demand for mobile data on devices like
Apple Inc.’s iPad and smartphones. Last month, Carlyle also
agreed to buy fiber-optic cable maker CommScope Inc. for $3.9
billion.  Company B ’s final offer was $30.75 a share, though the
company called Deutsche Bank the day the merger agreement with
Carlyle was completed to say it might be willing to offer more.
However, the company never followed up, according to the filing.
Company B had said earlier in the process it might offer as much
as $31.25 in cash and stock under certain circumstances.  Syniverse shares  rose  33 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $30.65
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. The
Tampa, Florida-based company’s shares had risen 36 percent this
year before Carlyle’s Oct. 28 acquisition announcement. Carlyle,
the world’s second-largest private-equity firm, is privately
held.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amy Thomson  in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  