-- U.K. Government Guarantees English Soccer TV Sale to Rulers of Abu Dhabi
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-11-18T17:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/u-k-government-guarantees-english-soccer-tv-sale-to-rulers-of-abu-dhabi.html
The U.K. government is guaranteeing
part of a contract sold to the rulers of Abu Dhabi to broadcast
Premier League soccer matches in the Middle East and North
Africa.  Barclays Plc, banker to the world’s richest domestic soccer
competition, sought cover from the country’s Export Credits
Guarantee Department before agreeing to underwrite a three-
season television contract with  Abu Dhabi Media Co . The accord,
which is in its first year, is worth around $100 million a
season.  The government department, which acts as a state-backed
insurer for exporters, guaranteed $100.55 million to Barclays
“to support its confirmation of a letter of credit relating to
the supply of television coverage of  Premier League  football for
the next three seasons,” according to its annual review.  The league requires guarantees from all its broadcast
rights holders. It declined to comment on its contract with Abu
Dhabi Media Co. The U.K. government agency doesn’t guarantee any
of the league’s other agreements.  Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, son of a former emir of
Abu Dhabi, has spent more than 300 million-pound ($480 million)
on players since completing the 210 million-pound acquisition of
Manchester City in September 2008. A month later, the member of
the ruling family bought 1.3 billion shares in Barclays, which
is the main sponsor for the Premier League. He made a 1.46
billion pounds profit when he sold the stock seven months later.  The Premier League started a record 3 billion-pound
television contract in August. That deal was boosted by overseas
rights selling for about 1 billion pounds, which is 65 percent
higher than under the previous three-season contract.  “The Premier League has never used us before,” said Steve
Roberts-Mee, a spokesman for the Export Credits Guarantee
Department. “Our mainstream stuff is oil and gas, aerospace and
defense. We don’t do football every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq  Panja in London 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 