-- U.K. Had Larger-Than-Expected Budget Deficit in October Amid Modest Growth
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-11-18T09:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/u-k-had-larger-than-expected-budget-deficit-in-october-amid-modest-growth.html
Britain had a larger budget deficit
in October than economists forecast, underlining the challenge
facing Prime Minister David Cameron as he tries to cut record
levels of borrowing.  The shortfall was 9.8 billion pounds ($15.6 billion), the
largest for any October since at least 1993 and up from 9.4
billion pounds a year earlier, the Office for National
Statistics said in London today. The median of 13 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey was a deficit of 8.9 billion pounds. The
deficit excluding government support for the financial sector
was 10.3 billion pounds.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  on Oct. 20
detailed the deepest spending cuts since World War II, which aim
to all but eliminate the deficit within four years. The plans
have cast a shadow over the prospects for the economy, with
consumer confidence falling to a 19-month low last month.  “Hopes a few months ago that public finances are improving
more quickly than expected have faded somewhat as growth is
slowing,” said Jonathan Loynes, chief European economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “Fundamentally the public
finances are still in a dreadful position.”  Osborne is aiming to narrow the deficit to 2 percent of
economic output by 2015 from more than 10 percent today. That
will involve 490,000 public-sector job losses and sweeping
welfare cuts, which account for more than a quarter of
government spending.  Gilt Yields  Investors responded by driving down yields on U.K.
government debt and Standard & Poor’s said last month that
Britain is no longer at risk of losing its top credit rating.
The 10-year gilt yield was up 5 basis points at 3.31 percent as
of 9:45 a.m. in London and the pound gained 0.3 percent to
$1.5947.  With European Union leaders battling to stem a widening
debt crisis in the euro region, Osborne has rejected
International Monetary Fund calls to scale back his plans should
growth stall.  The cuts face widespread public opposition. Violence during
a student demonstration this month over plans to increase
university tuition fees has raised the specter of civil unrest
when the tightening begins in earnest next year.  Tax and Spending  Revenue rose 6.8 percent in October with value-added tax
gaining 8 percent, suggesting consumers are bringing forward
purchases before the government raises the levy on sales in
January. Income tax fell 3.5 percent. Government spending
climbed 5.4 percent, boosted by higher welfare and debt-interest
payments, the figures showed.  In the first seven months of the fiscal year that began in
April, revenue growth of 9.2 percent outpaced spending,
narrowing the deficit excluding financial interventions to 81.6
billion pounds. That leaves the government on course to meet the
Office for Budget Responsibility’s full-year forecast of 149
billion pounds.  There was a public-sector cash requirement of 2.4 billion
pounds in October. Economists predicted 6 billion pounds. The
central-government cash deficit, the measure the Treasury says
most closely indicates gilt sales, was 1.6 billion pounds. Net
debt was little changed at 57.1 percent of gross domestic
product.  Before the financial crisis and recession, Britain
typically posted budget surpluses in October, when quarterly
receipts of tax on company profits pour in. Corporation tax
revenue rose by almost 30 percent in October from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  