-- U.K. Factory Index Posts First Gain in Three Months, Manufacturers Report
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-11-18T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/u-k-factory-index-posts-first-gain-in-three-months-manufacturers-report.html
A U.K. index of  factory orders  rose
for the first time in three months in November as export demand
strengthened, the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  The gauge, based on a survey of 443 manufacturers, climbed
to minus 15 from minus 28 in October, the nation’s biggest
business lobby group said in a report published in London today.
An index of export orders rose to minus 7 from minus 21.  Officials are counting on exports to help drive the
economic recovery as the nation braces for the deepest public
spending cuts since World War II. While the U.K. has posted its
strongest two consecutive quarters of growth in a decade, Bank
of England Governor  Mervyn King  said last week that expansion
will slow. The CBI said a gauge of factory output fell to the
lowest since January.  “Demand is now back in line with that over the summer
months, suggesting that particularly weak order book readings
last month may have been a one-off,” CBI Chief Economic Adviser
 Ian McCafferty  said in a statement. “Factory output is still
set to rise, albeit with modest expectations for growth compared
with the recent months.”  A measure of finished stocks slipped to 6 in November from
8 in October, while a gauge of expected output for the next
three months fell to 4 from 18, the CBI said.  The index of expected average prices for the next quarter
climbed to 17 from 6, the highest in eight months. Manufacturers
anticipate that they will raise prices “at a marked pace” in
the next three months, the lobby group said. McCafferty said
inflationary pressures “are a concern.”  The CBI took its survey from Oct. 25 to Nov. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  