-- U.S. Stocks Rally on Manufacturing, Prospects for Irish Bailout
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-18T21:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-on-prospects-for-eu-led-irish-bailout.html
U.S. stocks rallied, sending major
equity benchmarks to their biggest gains in two weeks, as
speculation grew that Ireland will accept a bailout to rescue
indebted banks and reports on manufacturing and jobless claims
bolstered optimism about the economy.  Alcoa Inc.  and Halliburton Co. climbed at least 3.4 percent
as metals prices jumped and crude oil rebounded from a four-day
drop.  Caterpillar Inc.  advanced 2.4 percent as the world’s
largest maker of construction equipment said global retail sales
of machines soared 48 percent.  General Motors Co.  rose 3.6
percent on its return to public trading following a $20 billion
initial public offering.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  gained 1.5 percent to
1,196.69 at 4 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
added 173.35 points, or 1.6 percent, to 11,181.23.  “It seems like everyone wants a rally today,” said
 Jeffrey Davis , who oversees $5 billion as chief investment
officer at Lee Munder Capital Group in Boston. “The U.S.
economic numbers have been very supportive. On top of that,
we’re pretty satisfied with the way Europe is handling the Irish
situation. And obviously GM’s IPO is bringing a positive tone to
everybody’s thinking. I’m encouraged.”  The  S&P 500  tumbled by the most in almost three months on
Nov. 16 amid speculation the debt crisis in Europe is worsening
and that China will act to slow its economy. The benchmark  gauge 
has still jumped 17 percent since July 2 as the Federal Reserve
increased its program of asset purchases to stimulate growth.  Global Rally  The  MSCI World Index  had its biggest gain since Nov. 4
today as Irish bonds climbed after central bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  said he expects Ireland to tap a loan from the European
Union and the International Monetary Fund worth “tens of
billions” of euros. Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said
the government is prepared to ask for a bank rescue package
after talks conclude with the EU and IMF, which sent teams to
Dublin today.  “Europe is a bit of a sideshow to the U.S.,” said  Barry Knapp , chief U.S. equity strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.
“It would be a bigger issue if the data over here weakened.
That’s not the case.”  U.S. futures extended gains as Labor Department figures
showed  applications  for unemployment insurance payments rose by
2,000 to 439,000 in the week ended Nov. 13. The total  number  of
people collecting unemployment insurance fell to the lowest in
two years, while those receiving extended benefits increased.  Manufacturing  Stocks added to their advance after manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region expanded in November at the fastest pace
this year. The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic  index 
jumped to 22.5, exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, from a measure of 1 a month earlier.
Readings greater than zero signal expansion. Another report
showed the index of U.S. leading indicators rose for the fourth
time in a row in October.  Shares of economically-sensitive industries, from metals
and energy producers to industrial and technology makers, led
gains in the  S&P 500 , rallying at least 1.8 percent.  Commodities and global industrial makers rose as the dollar
fell, sending the  Thomson Reuters/CRB Index  of 19 raw materials
up 2.4 percent, its largest increase since Oct. 8.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, jumped 3.4
percent to $13.38.  Halliburton , the world’s second-largest
oilfield-services provider, rallied 5.8 percent to $37.56.  Caterpillar added 2.4 percent to $83.11.  General Electric
Co. , the world’s biggest maker of jet engines, turbines for
power-plants, medical imaging equipment and locomotives, gained
1.5 percent to $16.04.  ‘Healthy’ Hiring  GE Capital , a unit of the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
conglomerate and one of the biggest lenders to small and midsize
U.S. companies this year, said a survey of chief financial
officers showed that most are experiencing improved capital
access, low to moderate economic growth and “healthy” hiring.  “None of the CFOs expect a double dip, and 84 percent see
stable-to-improving” economic conditions, said  Dan Henson , who
oversees GE Capital in the Americas. “The picture has improved.
You’ve got some moderate to decent growth.”  GM , which went bankrupt last year after almost a century on
the New York Stock Exchange, advanced 3.6 percent to $34.19
after climbing as high as $35.99. The automaker’s owners,
including the U.S. Treasury, sold $15.8 billion of common shares
at $33 each yesterday in the second-largest U.S. IPO on record.  The offering of $4.35 billion of preferred shares and an
overallotment option may boost the total to $23.1 billion, more
than the $22.1 billion raised by Beijing-based  Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd.  in the biggest IPO of common stock in history.  Applied Materials  Applied Materials Inc.  added 2.2 percent to $12.65. The
largest producer of chip-making equipment said profit more than
tripled as semiconductor manufacturers ordered more machinery.
Fourth-quarter  net income  increased to $468 million, or 35 cents
a share, from $137.9 million, or 10 cents, a year earlier.
Analysts on average projected profit of 31 cents and sales of
$2.6 billion, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  NetApp Inc.  rose the most in the S&P 500, gaining 7.9
percent to $53.12. The third-biggest seller of external
computer-storage systems said on a conference call yesterday it
expects to win market share and is considering share buybacks.
The company was also raised to a “buy” from a “hold” at
Canaccord Genuity Corp.  ‘Leadership Groups’  The S&P 500, which has lost 3.9 percent from a two-year
high on Nov. 5 through yesterday, is unlikely to fall more than
8 percent from its 2010 high, said  Jeffrey deGraaf  of ISI Group
Inc. He said the stock market’s trend turned positive last month
as gauges of momentum on Sept. 3 registered the best readings
since March 2009. The historical tendency of stocks to rise
between now and the end of January, and  leadership  from
commodity, consumer and industrial companies during the retreat,
support a bullish outlook, he said.  “You want those to be the leadership groups to be bullish
on stocks,” the head of technical analysis at ISI said. “It’s
a very dangerous time to be fighting a strong tape seasonally.
So we’ll get a consolidation -- I don’t think it’s anything
worse than 1,130 -- and then take another run at a new high.”  The benchmark index for U.S. stock options fell the most
since June 2. The VIX, as the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index is known, tumbled 14 percent to 18.75. The
index, which measures the cost of using options to protect
against S&P 500 declines, has fallen by more than half from this
year’s peak of 45.79 in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 