-- U.S.'s $60 Billion Saudi Arms Sale Likely to Clear Congress, Berman Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-11-18T20:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/u-s-s-60-billion-saudi-arms-sale-likely-to-clear-congress-berman-says.html
A proposed $60 billion U.S. weapons
sale to Saudi Arabia will likely clear a congressional review,
House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman  Howard Berman  said.  Berman, a California Democrat, said he knows of no
objections likely to arise before the Nov. 20 deadline for
members of Congress to block the sale.  “I do not think there will be any action” to hold up the
sale, Berman said today in an interview in Washington.  Earlier this month Berman and other lawmakers -- including
the committee’s ranking Republican, Representative  Ileana Ros- Lehtinen  of Florida -- wrote a letter to Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  that
questioned elements of the deal.  The prospective sale of weapons over a 10-year period would
constitute the largest in U.S. history if all the purchases are
made and is intended to help the Saudi government confront
potential threats from Iran and from violent extremists.  The Obama administration notified Congress of the plans
Oct. 20. The package includes  Boeing Co.  F-15 fighter jets,
attack helicopters and satellite-guided bombs. It also contains
helicopters made by  United Technologies Corp.  and advanced radar
from  Raytheon Co.   After the proposed sale clears the congressional review,
contracts would have to be put together for each element of the
package.  ‘Potential Repercussions’  The letter from House members earlier this month stopped
short of opposing the deal. The lawmakers raised “the potential
repercussions for our friends and for our own forces in the
region in the event of political change in Saudi Arabia,”
according to the letter.  They cited Saudi Arabia’s failure to take steps toward
normalization of relations with Israel or to increase financial
support for the Palestinian Authority as part of the peace
process between the two sides. They also questioned what the
Saudis had done to curb Iran’s nuclear ambitions beyond
expressing concern.  Ros-Lehtinen, who is in line to replace Berman as committee
chairman when Republicans take control of the House in January,
declined to comment specifically on the outlook for the sale.  “We’ve asked a lot of questions and we’ll see what
happens,” Ros-Lehtinen said in an interview.  Israeli Discussions  Defense Department officials discussed the proposed sale
with Israeli officials as the package was being developed,
according to both sides. Jonathan Peled, a spokesman for the
Israeli Embassy in Washington, has said that while his country
isn’t “thrilled” by the proposal, it hasn’t requested actions
such as congressional hearings or assurances.  The Saudi F-15 package doesn’t include arms that might pose
the greatest concern, such as weapons that can be fired from
long distances and could, under certain scenarios, threaten
Israel, according to  Colin Kahl , deputy assistant secretary of
defense for the Middle East.  The Israeli government last month contracted to buy 20 of
 Lockheed Martin Corp. ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter for about $2.8
billion when the jet becomes available. The Obama administration
since then has offered 20 more of the fighters as part of a
package of incentives for Israel to continue peace talks with
the Palestinians.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva4@bloomberg.net . 