-- U.S. Stock-Index Futures Retain Gains as Jobless Claims Trail Estimates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2010-11-18T13:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/u-s-stock-index-futures-maintain-gains-as-jobless-claims-trail-forecasts.html
U.S. stock-index futures maintained
gains after fewer workers than forecast filed claims for jobless
benefits last week.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in
December rose 1 percent to 1,189.7 at 8:32 a.m. in New York. Dow
Jones Industrial Average futures advanced 0.8 percent to 11,080.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments rose by
2,000 to 439,000 in the week ended Nov. 13, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The total number of people
collecting unemployment insurance dropped to the lowest level in
two years, while those receiving extended payments climbed.  Futures extended gains earlier and Irish bonds climbed
after central bank Governor Patrick Honohan said he expects
Ireland to tap a loan from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund worth “tens of billions.” Irish
Finance Minister Brian Lenihan said the government is prepared
to ask for a bank rescue package after talks with the EU and IMF
conclude. Officials fly into Dublin today.  The S&P 500 tumbled by the most in almost three months on
Nov. 16 amid speculation that the debt crisis in Europe is
worsening and that China will act to slow its economy. The
benchmark gauge has still jumped 15 percent since July as the
Federal Reserve increased its program of asset purchases to
stimulate growth.  A report today may show the index of U.S. leading
indicators rose in October by the most in five months on signs
the Fed was preparing to take additional action to spur growth,
economists said.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months climbed 0.5 percent, according to the median
of 58 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.   General Motors Co., which went bankrupt last year after
almost a century on the New York Stock Exchange, returns to
public trading today. The owners, including the U.S. Treasury,
sold $15.8 billion of common shares at $33 each yesterday in the
second-largest U.S. IPO on record.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  