-- U.S. Homeowners Drop Out of Foreclosure Program Amid Record Defaults
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2010-11-19T00:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/u-s-lawmakers-criticize-treasury-program-pushing-mortgage-modification.html
U.S. homeowners are dropping out of
the Obama administration’s foreclosure prevention program at a
faster rate than they are joining it, according to figures
released today by the U.S. Treasury Department.  Borrowers aided by the Home Affordable Modification Program
grew to nearly 520,000 in October, up 23,750 from a month
earlier, the Treasury said in its monthly report. The increase
was less than five percent. A total of 36,300 borrowers have
dropped out of the plan for failing to make their payments, an
increase of 24 percent from a month earlier.  At a congressional hearing earlier in the day, lawmakers
said HAMP, which pays lenders to modify loans and reduce monthly
payments for struggling borrowers, isn’t doing enough to help
homeowners falling behind on their mortgages amid high
unemployment and depressed real estate values.  “It’s safe to say that HAMP isn’t meeting its goal of
preventing foreclosures,” Representative  Maxine Waters , a
California Democrat, said at a House Financial Services
subcommittee hearing after the Treasury provided a preview of
the report.  The Treasury and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development issue monthly progress reports on HAMP, a $50
billion program authorized by Congress in 2009. The program was
targeted to reach more than 3 million homeowners by paying
mortgage servicers $1,000 to rewrite loan terms and $1,000
annually as long as the borrower participates, up to three
years.  Foreclosures Outpace Modifications  The 520,000 homeowners helped by the plan since it was
launched in March 2009 contrast with high rates of foreclosure,
even among the most creditworthy borrowers. Administration
officials emphasized the report’s positive news, especially the
cumulative number of borrowers who have received loan
modifications supported by the program.  At the same time, the officials acknowledged that the
program is struggling to slow the tide of foreclosures at a time
of economic hardship. Foreclosures on prime fixed-rate mortgages
in the U.S. jumped to a 12-year record in the third quarter as
unemployment strained household budgets, the Mortgage Bankers
Association reported today.  “While we cannot stop every foreclosure, we know that more
has to be done to reach homeowners in distress and to help
unemployed borrowers,” HUD Assistant Secretary  Raphael Bostic 
said in a written statement.  Recipients Default  The program has been faulted by lawmakers and watchdogs
including  Neil Barofsky , special inspector general for the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, for the high number of recipients
who default on mortgages after getting the government aid.  Banks seized more than 93,000 homes in October, according
to Irvine, California-based data seller RealtyTrac Inc. There
were nearly 3.3 million foreclosure starts from September 2009
through September 2010, according to LPS Applied Analytics in
Jacksonville, Florida.  Mortgage servicers say they are trying to balance the needs
of borrowers and the demands of investors who own their loans.  “We’ve reached a crossroad between modification efforts
now and the reality of foreclosure. Despite our best efforts and
numerous programs, for some customers foreclosure will be
unavoidable,” said Rebecca Mairone, default servicing executive
for Bank of America Corp. home loans, at today’s House hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
 Clea Benson  in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 