-- Hu to Step Down as Director of SEC's Risk Division 13 Months After Joining
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-11-18T22:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/hu-stepping-down-as-head-of-sec-unit-formed-to-spot-market-risk.html
Henry Hu , the law professor hired by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to lead a new unit
responsible for spotting threats to financial markets, plans to
leave the agency by January.  Hu is stepping down as director of the division of risk,
strategy and financial innovation to return to the University of
Texas, the SEC today said in a statement. The SEC didn’t name a
replacement for Hu, who joined the agency 13 months ago.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  created the risk unit in
September 2009 after lawmakers criticized the agency for missing
 Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme and questioned its oversight of
investment banks including Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., which collapsed during the credit crisis in 2008.
Schapiro said the unit would help break down communication
barriers between divisions and boost the SEC’s understanding of
complex financial products.  It was “totally my decision” to step down, Hu said in a
telephone interview. “This seemed like a very natural point in
terms of having accomplished the very basic goals” of setting
up a new division, he said.  Hu’s unit was created through the merger of separate SEC
units that conducted economic analysis and tried to identify
emerging financial risks. He hired people who previously worked
at hedge funds and on Wall Street, adding to an SEC staff
primarily made up of securities lawyers.  “I am deeply grateful to Henry for the great start that he
has given the division, and for his valued judgment on a wide
range of important substantive issues,” Schapiro said in the
SEC’s statement.  Hu has written about bank, derivatives, hedge fund and
mutual-fund regulation, as well as model risk, risk management,
swaps and other financial innovations. He holds degrees in
molecular biophysics and biochemistry, and received a master’s
in economics and a law degree from Yale University.  Hu said he looks forward “to going back to what I have
loved for 20 years, which is research.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  