-- Humana Says 2011 Profit Will Drop on Medicare Funding Cuts; Shares Retreat
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2010-11-18T21:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/humana-says-2011-profit-will-drop-on-medicare-funding-cuts-shares-retreat.html
Humana Inc. , the U.S. health plan
with the best-performing stock this year, said it expects
 earnings  to fall in 2011 as Medicare funding cuts and the U.S.
health law reduce profit. The company’s shares dropped.  Humana forecast earnings of $5.35 to $5.55 a share for 2011
in a statement today before an investor meeting in Louisville,
Kentucky, where the company is based. Profit margins will
decline for plans it provides for Medicare, the U.S.-backed
insurance program for the elderly, Humana said. Fifteen analysts
in a Bloomberg survey had  estimated  an average $6.11 a share.  The health-care law signed in March calls for $130 billion
in funding cuts over a decade to private Medicare Advantage
providers, after Democrats said the plans received more than the
U.S. government spends to provide the same services. Humana’s
2011 forecast is the first from insurers that depend on the
program, including  UnitedHealth Group Inc.  and  WellPoint Inc.   Even with the expected cuts, Humana’s projection  was
“surprisingly conservative,” said  Matthew Borsch , a Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. analyst in New York, in a note to clients.
“That said, management was similarly conservative in its year-
earlier outlook” and ended up raising its forecast this year,
he said.  2010 Forecast  Humana expects earnings of $6.40 to $6.50 a share in 2010,
according to the company’s statement.  The insurer fell $1.24, or 2.1 percent, to $56.81 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:01 p.m. The shares
have gained 29 percent this year, the biggest advance among the
six-member Standard & Poor’s  Managed Health Index . The index
ended the day almost unchanged.  Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth rose 30 cents, to
$35.63. WellPoint, based in Indianapolis, fell 13 cents, to
$56.32.  Medicare’s history of underestimating health costs and
eventually approving higher rates suggests the long-term cuts
won’t be so bad as the health law calls for, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Michael McCallister  said during the Louisville
meeting. The insurer has grown Advantage enrollment and profit
margins during the last two years even as the government froze
rates, he said.  “Effectively, what you’re looking at is the two worst
years we could have experienced,” McCallister said. “The cuts
that most people think are in the future have been brought
forward and already been experienced, and as you see, we’ve
grown quite nicely.”  Membership Rising  Humana sees Medicare Advantage membership rising as much as
65,000 next year, he said. Medicare premiums accounted for 61
percent of Humana’s  revenue  last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company expects a “resetting” of its Medicare  profit
margins  to about 5 percent of revenue, according to its
statement.  “Every year, we conservatively plan to realize a margin of
5 percent in Medicare,”  Tom Noland , a Humana spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “But then we work throughout the subsequent year on
behalf of our members -- through care coordination and care
management programs -- to improve patient outcomes and reduce
costs.”  While Humana is likely to grow enrollment as smaller
Medicare plans exit the market, the health law still means “the
profit of the biggest part of their business is flat to down
because the margins are being squeezed,” said  David H. Windley ,
a Jefferies & Co. analyst in Nashville, Tennessee, in a
telephone interview.  Medicare Advantage Members  Humana had 1.76 million Medicare Advantage members as of
Nov. 1, second to UnitedHealth’s 2.1 million, said  Carl McDonald , a Citigroup analyst in New York, in a note to clients
today. WellPoint is the top U.S. health plan by enrollment,
followed by UnitedHealth.  The insurer said it also expects medical costs to rise next
year. Health expenses have been lower than forecast across the
industry over the past year, as unemployment levels of almost 10
percent kept more Americans away from the doctor, McCallister
said.  While Humana assumes “a return to normalcy,” it’s
difficult to predict what health-care consumers will do in 2011,
he said.  “There’s just nowhere to really know exactly where we are
today relative to medical cost trends, so we’ve taken the
conservative approach,” McCallister said.  UnitedHealth, the biggest insurer by sales, expects profit
to fall next year as medical costs rise, Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Hemsley  said on an Oct. 19 conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  