-- Telenor's India Partner Unitech Says Cooperating With Authorities on Probe
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2010-11-18T06:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/unitech-says-cooperating-with-authorities-on-india-phone-probe.html
Unitech Ltd. , the Indian real-estate
developer that has a venture with Telenor ASA to provide phone
services, said it’s cooperating with the authorities about an
investigation into the sale of airwaves in the country.  “We are providing full co-operation to these authorities
and will continue to do so in future as well,” Unitech said in
an e-mailed response today to Bloomberg News. “Pending such
enquiries, it’s not appropriate for us to comment on anything
relating thereto.”  Unitech  shares slumped the most in almost six months in
Mumbai trading after the Times of India newspaper reported the
communications ministry is expected to start a review of 85
licenses sold in 2008. The nation’s auditor said earlier this
week the federal government may have lost 1.4 trillion rupees
($31 billion) in revenue after the airwaves were sold below
market rates.  The New Delhi-based builder fell as much as 10 percent to
66.60 rupees and changed hands 6.1 percent lower at 11:52 a.m.
That extended a five-day 19 percent decline.  The Indian government collected only 123.9 billion rupees
from the sale of the so-called second-generation wireless
spectrum to companies, the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India said in a report submitted to parliament in New Delhi on
Nov. 16. In contrast, India raised 677.2 billion rupees selling
third-generation wireless airwaves in May.  Companies including Unitech Ltd., Tata Teleservices Ltd.,
Shyam Telelink Ltd., now known as Sistema Shyam Teleservices
Ltd., and Swan Telecom Ltd., now known as Etisalat DB Telecom
Pvt., sold stakes in their wireless ventures at significant
premiums to the price they paid for spectrum, the auditor said.
Telenor ASA spent 61.2 billion rupees for buying a 67.25 percent
stake in its venture with Unitech, the auditor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at   apapuc1@bloomberg.net  