-- U.S. Utility Mergers Face Regulatory Challenges, Exelon's Von Hoene Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2010-11-18T21:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/utility-deals-face-hurdles-as-states-shield-jobs-exelon-s-von-hoene-says.html
U.S. utility mergers face regulatory
approval challenges as states seek to prevent job cuts and
extract money,  Exelon Corp.  Executive Vice President  William Von Hoene Jr.  said.  Cutting jobs to make more money from a merger or
acquisition is a “hard sell in this economic environment, in
this political environment,” he said in an interview today at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. Another challenge is “the
extraction of money when approval is required from agencies” in
states that are “money-compromised,” Von Hoene said.  Exelon, the second-largest U.S. power company by market
value, continues to look at acquisitions after its attempts to
buy  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc.  and  NRG Energy Inc. 
unraveled in 2006 and 2009, respectively, said Von Hoene. The
improving credit market is reflected in some of the transactions
announced this year, he said.  There have been $36 billion worth of announced deals this
year for U.S. power companies, a 10-fold increase from a year
ago, according to Bloomberg data.  “The credit markets are better, they’re clearly better,
and there’s availability that there hasn’t been over the course
of the last couple of years,” Von Hoene said.  The largest transaction this year, FirstEnergy Corp.’s
$7.85 billion purchase of  Allegheny Energy Inc ., was initially
opposed by Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell  before the companies
agreed to limit job cuts and apply $11 million in customer
credits.  Exelon, based in Chicago,  rose  2 cents to $40.02 at 4:02
p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. It has
fallen 18 percent this year.  Southern Co. is the largest U.S. power company by market
value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net  