-- Guantanamo Detainee's Bombing Verdict May Discourage More Civilian Trials
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2010-11-18T05:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/verdict-in-east-african-embassy-bombings-may-hamper-more-civilian-trials.html
The Obama administration may want to
seek other ways to prosecute Guantanamo Bay inmates following a
New York jury conviction of an alleged al-Qaeda bomber on only
one of 285 counts in the 1998 attacks on U.S. embassies in
Africa that killed 224 people.  Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani , 36, a Tanzanian citizen and the
first detainee to face civilian trial, was found guilty
yesterday in Manhattan federal court of conspiracy and cleared
of all other charges, including 224 counts of murder stemming
from the bombing of the embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania,
and Nairobi, Kenya. Twelve U.S. citizens were among the dead in
the near-simultaneous terrorist attacks.  Prosecutors face an uphill battle in obtaining guilty
verdicts against defendants apprehended in military operations
and held without constitutional protections, said Rebecca
Lonergan, an ex-federal prosecutor who teaches national security
law at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles.  “These cases don’t fit the mold the criminal courts were
made for,” Lonergan said in an interview. The military is more
concerned with stopping enemy combatants than collecting
evidence and prosecutors are reluctant to use evidence that may
compromise national security, she said.  The Ghailani case was a test of whether such a defendant
could be prosecuted in a civilian court and, while resulting in
a guilty verdict, may give pause to any Justice Department
effort to seek more trials, legal experts said. Lonergan said
the federal government should create a special “national
security court” to handle such cases.  Minimum Sentence  Ghailani, who was indicted in December 1998, was captured
in Pakistan in July 2004. In September 2006, he was transferred
to the U.S. military base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. He was
transferred to New York last year for trial after the Obama
administration said it planned to close the Guantanamo Bay
prison and try terrorism suspects held there in civilian courts.  Ghailani faced a mandatory life sentence had he been
convicted of any of the murder counts. He faces a minimum
sentence of 20 years in prison when U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  sentences him on Jan. 25.  Kaplan praised jurors as he dismissed them yesterday after
the verdict, saying they demonstrated “that American justice
can be delivered calmly, deliberately and fairly, by ordinary
people -- people who are not beholden to any government,
including this one.”  Worldwide Conspiracy  The charges against Ghailani included being part of a
worldwide terrorist conspiracy with  Osama bin Laden  to kill U.S.
nationals, conspiring to use weapons of mass destruction and the
224 murder counts. The jury found him guilty of conspiring to
destroy buildings and property of the U.S.  The result “wasn’t a total disaster,” Jenny Martinez, a
Stanford Law School professor, said in a phone interview. “If I
were the prosecutors, I’d think it wasn’t everything we hoped
for but it’s longer than any sentences that the people who have
been convicted by the military commissions have gotten.”  A New York University study of 828 “terror related”
prosecutions in civilian courts since Sept. 11, 2001, found an
89 percent conviction rate in those cases, Martinez said. She
also cited a Human Rights First study finding that there was a
91 percent conviction rate in 119 terrorism-related cases since
the 2001 attacks.  “Contrast that with the military commissions which have
produced five convictions” with only three of those individuals
still in custody, Martinez said.  Proximate Cause  In the Ghailani trial, the jury was asked to determine
whether prosecutors had proven that Ghailani’s actions
“directly or proximately caused death to a person other than a
co-conspirator.” While the panel said he did, jurors didn’t
find Ghailani guilty of any deaths. They didn’t speak to
reporters as they left the courthouse.  “As a matter of logic, it’s hard to reconcile the murder
acquittals with the conspiracy conviction -- particularly given
the jury’s finding that the attack led to the deaths of
innocents,” said  Daniel Richman , a former federal prosecutor in
New York who is now a professor at Columbia Law School.
“However, juries sometimes break logjams in deliberation with
compromise verdicts, and this seems to be just that.”  A witness that Kaplan precluded from testifying might have
made the difference on the murder counts, Richman said.  Kaplan barred prosecutors from calling as a witness Hussein
Abebe, a Tanzanian miner who told investigators he had sold five
crates of TNT, a detonation cord, blasting caps and detonators
to Ghailani. Kaplan barred Abebe’s testimony, saying that
Ghailani was coerced into indentifying him by the U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency. The CIA subjected Ghailani to “enhanced
interrogation techniques,” the U.S. said in court papers.  ‘Giant’ Witness  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Michael Farbiarz  called Abebe a
“giant” and “critical” witness.  “We respect the jury’s verdict and are pleased that  Ahmed Ghailani  now faces a minimum of 20 years in prison and a
potential life sentence for his role in the embassy bombings,”
 Matthew Miller , a spokesman for the U.S. Department of Justice,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Charles Miller, another
government spokesman, didn’t return a call seeking comment on
whether more civilian prosecutions of detainees are planned.  Testimony in the trial began Oct. 12 and ended Nov. 3. The
six-man, six-woman jury, which was anonymous, began its
deliberations on Nov. 10.  Ghailani, seated at the defense table and flanked by five
lawyers, wiped his face after the verdict was announced.  His lawyer, Peter Quijano, said the verdict was a
“reaffirmation that this nation’s judicial system is the
greatest ever devised.”  World Trade Center  “We are in shadows of the World Trade Center and this jury
acquitted Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani of 284 out of 285 counts,” he
said. “Although Ahmed was not responsible, we would express
sympathy for 224 who died and hundreds injured.”  During a 2001 trial in Manhattan federal court, four co-
defendants of Ghailani were convicted of all charges, including
joining an al-Qaeda conspiracy to kill U.S. nationals and all
224 counts of murder.  The defense in Ghailani’s case argued that he was a
“dupe” who unwittingly helped collect materials, including
metal tanks and a truck, used in the Tanzania attack. Defense
lawyers argued he hadn’t known the plotters intended to bomb the
embassies.  The jury sent Kaplan a note during deliberations, asking if
it had to determine that Ghailani “knowingly and willingly”
participated in the attacks as part of their consideration of
five conspiracy charges listed in the indictment.  Kaplan instructed the panel that it must find that
prosecutors had proved beyond a reasonable doubt that Ghailani
knew of “at least one of the unlawful objectives of the
conspiracy.” Kaplan also told jurors they must find that
prosecutors proved the defendant “voluntarily and intentionally
participated in the venture as something he wished to do.”  Circumstantial Case  Without Abebe as a witness, prosecutors mounted a largely
circumstantial case, calling African witnesses who could
describe Ghailani’s actions in the months before the bombing.
They testified that Ghailani and a co-defendant bought a Nissan
refrigeration truck used in the Dar es Salaam attack.  Tanzanian welders also testified that Ghailani negotiated
the purchase of at least seven metal tanks, each about 5 feet
tall and weighing 150 pounds, and that he filled them with
acetylene and oxygen. Ghailani paid for tanks with cash out of a
waist pouch he wore, they said.  FBI agents testified they later found TNT residue and metal
fragments from 19 different tanks at the Dar es Salaam blast
site.  Prosecutors argued during the trial that Ghailani was a
knowing participant, or “implementer,” of the al-Qaeda
terrorist plot.  ‘One of Them’  “He wasn’t just with them, he was one of them,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney  Harry Chernoff  told jurors in closing arguments on
Nov. 8. “He wasn’t along for the ride. He was putting the plans
in motion, getting the bomb built.”  Prosecutors said during the trial that bin Laden dispatched
terrorists to bomb the embassies in retaliation for the
stationing of U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia during the first
Persian Gulf War and U.S. alliances with Saudi Arabia, Egypt,
Jordan and Israel.  Other explosives evidence was found in Ghailani’s home in
Dar es Salaam, the government said. An FBI agent testified that
during an Aug. 29, 1998, search, three weeks after the attack,
he found a live explosives detonator in a padlocked armoire that
Ghailani used. Testing determined the detonator was made of the
explosive PETN. Agents also found traces of the PETN in the
armoire and in clothes that were stored there, the FBI said.  Mobile-Phone Records  Mobile-phone records with Ghailani’s fingerprints found by
the FBI in his house were presented as evidence by prosecutors.  The mobile phone, which was paid for by a person identified
as “Ahmed Khalfan,” was used in August 1998 to make a series
of calls, including to a house in Nairobi where prosecutors said
the bomb for the Kenya attack was made.  Prosecutors said someone also used the phone to call the
Hilltop Hotel in Nairobi, where a guest registry showed that al-
Qaeda members stayed for a meeting on Aug. 1, 1998.  Lawyers for Ghailani argued he was used by associates
involved in the plot. They told jurors Ghailani’s purchases were
“commercial transactions” made by someone who was “duped”
and “used by his friends.”  Trial witnesses said Ghailani gave various reasons for his
departure from Tanzania the day before the bombings, telling
friends and relatives he was going to Yemen for work and one
roommate that he was going to Germany.  The U.S. said Ghailani went to Afghanistan and worked for
several top al-Qaeda terrorists, serving as a cook and bodyguard
for bin Laden. The jury didn’t hear details of what happened to
him after he left Africa.  The case is U.S. v. Ghailani, 98-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles federal court
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 