-- Vodafone’s Colao Sees Verizon Solution By End 2011
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2010-11-18T12:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/vodafone-sees-some-solution-in-u-s-by-the-end-of-next-year.html
Vodafone Group Plc , which hasn’t
received a dividend from its Verizon Wireless joint venture
since 2005, expects a solution in the U.S. by the end of 2011,
Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said today.  “I think it is fairly logical to assume that by the end of
next year something should happen,” Colao said at a Morgan
Stanley conference in Barcelona. “There’s a clear intent to
work well together. We keep our mind open. If it’s impossible to
get cash out of it, we should go for other solutions which are
not very advantageous to our shareholders and the company.”  The CEO is reviewing Vodafone’s 45 percent stake in the
unit, as partner  Verizon Communications Inc.  focuses on paying
down debt. Colao said last week he expected dividends from the
unit “at some point in the future.” Verizon Wireless had net
debt of $14.3 billion at the end of September, and generates
annual free cash flow of about $12.5 billion.  Colao, a former McKinsey & Co. partner, has said he’s
reviewing all minority interests amid pressure from shareholders
to squeeze more out of the investments. Newbury, U.K.-based
Vodafone this year placed its minority holdings into a separate
unit directly managed by Colao and Chief Financial Officer
 Andrew Halford .  Shares Rise  Vodafone  shares rose  as much as 1.8 percent to 169.9 pence
in London and traded at 168.75 pence at 11:19 a.m. The stock has
gained 17 percent so far this year.  Vodafone is reviewing its stake in French mobile-phone
company SFR and considering a sale of its holding in Polkomtel
SA, Poland’s biggest mobile-phone operator.  In the last few months, Vodafone sold holdings in Japanese
wireless operator  Softbank Corp.  for 3.1 billion pounds ($5
billion) and disposed of its stake in  China Mobile Ltd.  for $6.5
billion in the biggest divestment since Colao took charge.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Browning at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net  