-- VW to Invest $71 Billion in Auto Unit to Surpass Toyota as World Leader
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 2010-11-19T14:17:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/volkswagen-said-to-detail-spending-plans-to-leapfrog-toyota.html
Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, will invest 51.6 billion euros ($71 billion) in the
automotive business over the next five years to help reach a
goal of surpassing  Toyota Motor Corp.  in sales and profit.  The 20-member supervisory  board  approved the outlays for
plants, vehicles and developing the carmaker’s nine brands at a
meeting today, Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW said in an e-mailed
statement. The automaker’s Chinese joint ventures will spend an
additional 10.6 billion euros through 2015, the carmaker said.  “We’re systematically pursuing the goals to further
increase our profitability and to make VW the world’s most fit-
for-the-future automotive group,” Chief Executive Officer
 Martin Winterkorn  said in the statement.  The CEO is  targeting  a second straight year of record
deliveries as he adds 70 models, including Audi’s new A1 compact
and successors to VW’s Touareg SUV and Sharan family van. VW is
aiming to sell more than 8 million cars by 2012 and 10 million
as early as 2015, three years earlier than a 2018 official
target, a person with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Volkswagen’s preferred  shares  gained as much as 1.65 euros,
or 1.4 percent, to 120.80 euros and were trading at 120.15 euros
as of 3:15 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has risen 84 percent
this year, the best performer on Germany’s benchmark DAX Index.  New Vehicles  The  manufacturer  will spend 27.7 billion euros of the total
to develop new vehicles and redesign existing ones, VW said.
Money will also go to upgrade factories and equipment. More than
half of investments in auto operations will be made in Germany.  “Auto markets are poised for further growth and VW is
taking maximum provisions to share in that momentum,” said
 Aleksej Wunrau , a BHF-Bank AG analyst in Frankfurt with an
“overweight” rating on the stock. “They want to be ready when
markets take off and some of their operations, for instance in
Russia and southern Europe, still have room for expansion.”  Still,  VW  in past years consistently failed to use up its
budget for capital expenditure and might again realize that the
51.6 billion euros are “somewhat generous,” Wunrau said.  Toyota , the world’s largest carmaker, budgeted 670 billion
yen ($8 billion) for plant and equipment spending in its fiscal
year ending March 2011 and 760 billion yen for research and
development. Toyota doesn’t disclose any mid-term spending plan.  Volkswagen said last month, when it reported nine-month  net
income  of 3.78 billion euros, that net liquidity was 19.6
billion euros.  Factory Expansions  VW decided in September to produce the Amarok pick-up at a
factory in Hanover from mid-2012, adding a second model line
alongside the T5 van at its third-largest German plant. VW’s
initial plans are to build about 40,000 Amaroks in Hanover for
Europe. The Amarok, which is sold worldwide except for in the
U.S., is currently made only at VW’s factory in Argentina.  VW is also increasing vehicle and component production at
some of its 10 German factories. The  automaker  will increase
daily output of the Tiguan compact SUV at its main Wolfsburg
plant to 1,000 units next year from 750 and build more two-way
shift gearboxes at a factory in Kassel, two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said.  Some 400 temporary  workers  at both plants will be offered
permanent jobs to meet growing demand, personnel director  Jochen Schumm  said in September.  This year, VW announced plans to add two more  Chinese 
factories, bringing the total in the world’s biggest auto market
to 11 as part of a 6 billion-euro investment to double
production there to 3 million cars within four years. VW will
also open a plant in Chattanooga, Tennessee, next year to supply
the U.S. market and is expanding capacity in Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 