-- Warring Kings’ Art Treasures Glitter in Paris Exhibit: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-11-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/warring-kings-artistic-treasures-glitter-in-paris-show-jorg-von-uthmann.html
George W. Bush  wasn’t the first
leader to launch a disastrous war based on shaky premises.  Two of his bellicose forerunners are the patron saints of
an attractive show at Paris’s  Grand Palais  -- Charles VIII and
Louis XII, who ruled France between 1483 and 1515.  “France 1500” is, in some ways, a sequel to “Paris 1400:
The Arts Under Charles VI,” an exhibition organized by the
 Louvre  in 2004.  Inspired by romances of chivalry, Charles VIII decided to
invade Italy claiming his family’s rights on the kingdom of
Naples. After Charles’s death at 27 -- he hit his head on the
lintel of a door -- his successor continued the war, dragging
France into the Italian quagmire for more than a generation.  After a few victories and many defeats, French troops
eventually retreated empty-handed.  The invasion in the opposite direction was more successful:
Italian art became popular at the French court. The exhibition
includes altarpieces, canvases, sculptures and medallions by
Italian artists; some, such as Francesco Laurana and  Leonardo da Vinci , moved to France.  Compared with Florence, Venice and Rome, Paris in those
days was a cultural backwater. Unlike their Italian peers,
French artists were slow at absorbing the new Renaissance
spirit: Many of the 200 works in the show have a medieval feel.  Mystery Master  This is certainly true of the paintings by Nicolas Froment
and Jean Hey who, organizers say, is the mysterious Maitre de
Moulins. By contrast, Jean Fouquet, the 15th century’s most
famous French artist, was more modern: He had lived for years in
Rome, and it shows.  Paintings are only a sideshow at the Grand Palais. They
share the stage with tapestries, furniture, stained glass,
enamels, illuminated manuscripts and the dernier cri of the
period -- printed books, including a “Mirror for Sinners.”  The Lady with the Unicorn series hasn’t budged from the
 Musee de Cluny ; instead, you find a no less delicious tapestry
from Boston, “Narcissus Gazing at His Reflection in a
Fountain.”  One of the most beautiful illuminated manuscripts is the
Book of Hours that belonged to Anne, duchess of Brittany. She
was married, by turns, to Charles VIII and Louis XII. Her first
marriage was to bring Brittany under the crown of France; her
second was to keep it there.  There’s also a gold capsule for her heart -- “the greatest
heart that had any lady in the world,” as the inscription says.
(Anne is still popular in Brittany, and the heroine of a rock
opera first performed in 2009.)  Another reliquary in the exhibition claims to contain milk
from the Madonna.  The last item is a portrait of Louis’s successor, Francis
I, as St. John the Baptist. It was only under that formidable
patron of the arts that the trickle of Italian painters and
sculptors became a torrent and that the Renaissance finally
conquered France.  “France 1500 -- Entre Moyen Age et Renaissance” runs
through Jan. 10, 2011, at the Grand Palais, Paris. On Feb. 26,
2011, the show will open at the Art Institute of Chicago.
Information:  http://www.rmn.fr .  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 