-- Watsa Modeling Buffett Sparks Rally in Fairfax Debentures: Canada Credit
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-11-18T18:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/watsa-modeling-buffett-leads-fairfax-higher-canada-credit.html
Investors are showing more
confidence in  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. ’s debt than they
have in at least six years after Chief Executive Officer  Prem Watsa ’s bets against U.S. financial companies made it the most
profitable insurer in Canada.  The cost to insure the company’s debt fell to the lowest in
at least three years, making its credit default swaps the
second-best performer in Canada this year behind those of
Celestica Inc. The yield on Fairfax’s 7.375 percent bond
maturing in 2018 fell to 6.18 percent this month, the lowest in
at least six years.  Watsa, who models the insurance company after  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., benefitted from declines in
U.S. banks during the financial crisis. The rising earnings
overshadowed legal controversies and accounting probes that had
weighed on the Toronto-based company’s debt, pushing the yield
on the 7.375 percent bond to 13.1 percent in 2006.  “Nothing makes people forget about what happened in the
past more than being right,” said  Ric Palombi , who manages
about C$325 million ($318 million), including Fairfax bonds, for
McLean & Partners Wealth Management Ltd. in Calgary.
“Diversification, buying business lines that are not as
cyclical and continued demonstration of improving credit
metrics, all of these things are indications he’s delivering.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold the debt of Canada’s corporations rather than its
federal government, widened yesterday to 135 basis points, or
1.35 percentage points, from 134 basis points the day before,
the narrowest gap since May, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Yields rose to 3.81 percent, from 3.85
percent the day before.  U.S. Corporate Bonds  Relative yields on U.S. corporate bonds ended Nov. 16 at
176 basis points, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch data showed.
Global corporate spreads were 167 basis points. Canadian
corporate bonds have lost investors 0.9 percent this month,
compared with declines through Nov. 16 of 1.1 percent for U.S.
company debt and 0.9 percent for global corporates.  In provincial bond markets, relative yields expanded to 52
basis points, from 51 basis points the day before, the tightest
spreads since April. They reached as wide this year as 71 basis
points in May. Yields rose to 3.20 percent, from 3.18 percent
the day before.  Provincial bonds have lost 1.7 percent this month, headed
for the worst performance since September 2008.  Government bonds dropped today, pushing the yield on the
two-year security up five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 1.62 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent security
maturing in December 2012 slid 9 cents to C$99.75. The yield
increased as much as seven basis points to 1.65 percent, the
highest level since July 27.  Bonds Decline  Canada’s government bonds have lost 1.5 percent in
November, headed for the worst performance since December, the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. Treasuries are down 1.1
percent this month through Nov. 16, and global sovereigns have
lost 0.9 percent.  Ontario Finance Minister  Dwight Duncan  said today the
province will run a deficit of C$18.7 billion in the
current fiscal year, down from a June forecast of C$19.7
billion. The province will have budget gaps of C$17.3 billion in
2011-12 and C$15.9 billion in 2012-13. Ontario’s fiscal year
starts April 1.  Canadian Debt Sales  Detour Gold sold $250 million in 5.5 percent bonds maturing
in November 2017 in a so-called bought deal led by BMO Capital
Markets. Canada sold C$1.4 billion in 30-year bonds yesterday at
an average yield of 3.638 percent.  Fairfax’s 7.5 percent bond maturing in 2019, which is held
in at least 36 mutual funds, according to Bloomberg data, has
returned 12 percent this year, compared with a 7.3 percent
return for a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of Canadian
financial companies’ bonds.  Fairfax’s credit-default swaps have dropped 59 percent this
year, behind only those of electronics manufacturer Celestica
among Canadian companies in Bloomberg data.  Swaps on Fairfax debt have decreased 210.8 basis points
this year to 147.9 basis points. One basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt. Credit
swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.  Credit Rating  The swaps declined after Fitch Ratings raised Fairfax’s
credit rating to BBB from BBB- on June 21, citing its “improved
capitalization, strong profitability, reasonable financial
leverage and sizable cash position.”  The four acquisitions Fairfax announced this year,
especially its $1.3 billion purchase of Zenith National
Insurance Corp. of Woodland Hills, California, convinced
investors the company is diversifying its operations and
spreading its risk, Palombi said. In the past, disasters such as
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks and Hurricane Katrina in 2005 led to
losses in Fairfax’s property and casualty insurance businesses.  “The more diverse you can be, the more comfortable
investors will be in giving you the spread that you deserve,”
Palombi said.  Fairfax remained profitable through most of the financial
crisis, even as bigger rival Manulife Financial Corp. posted
losses in five of the past eight quarters. Fairfax was among the
six most-profitable insurers in North America based on return on
equity in 2007 and 2008 and was in the top 25 percent last year.  Credit Default Swaps  Earnings soared to a record in 2008 as the company profited
from investments in credit-default swaps on U.S. banks and
insurers. The swaps became more valuable as the subprime
mortgage market collapsed and banks began to fail.  Fairfax’s own  credit-default swaps  were the second-most-
expensive among 20 Canadian companies tracked by Bloomberg data
at the end of last year, behind only those of forestry company
Sino-Forest Corp.  Investors were hesitant largely because of questions over
the company’s accounting, Palombi said.  In 2006, the company restated financial results, received
 subpoenas  from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
faced allegations of tax fraud from a money manager Fairfax had
accused in court of spreading false information.  The money manager, Institutional Credit Partners LLC, was
itself charged with fraud by the SEC in June of this year. The
lawsuit between Fairfax and defendants including ICP remains
pending. The company said the U.S. Internal Revenue Service
audited the tax years in question and required no changes.  Regulatory Investigation  The SEC ended its investigation of Fairfax last year
without taking action,  Paul Rivett , a company spokesman, said in
an e-mail message.  “Because of his past, people were not willing to jump on
the bandwagon when he was issuing over 7 percent coupons a year
ago,” Palombi said of Watsa, 60, who like Buffett built his
company by investing profits from insurance operations in out-
of-favor securities.  Over the past four years, the company’s  debt-to-equity
ratio , a measure of its debt relative to its size, has dropped
by more than half even as the ratio for the S&P/TSX Insurance
Index has increased 19 percent. Fairfax’s liabilities have risen
to $23.6 billion over the period, from $23.2 billion, while its
shareholder equity has more than doubled to $8.91 billion.  Fairfax’s debt may advance further as ratings companies
consider more upgrades, Palombi said.  “Looking at the business and Prem’s investment strategy, I
think people are going to get more comfortable that upgrades are
definitely possible,” he said.  A Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of 7-to-10-year U.S.
corporate bonds of companies with ratings of A+ to A- yields
4.08 percent, while an index of similar BBB+ to BBB- debt yields
4.69 percent, below Fairfax’s borrowing costs.  “We believe our company and our credit, with over $1
billion at the holding company, low net debt and approximately
$8 billion in equity, deserves higher ratings,” Rivett said.
“The fact that we are a strong investment grade credit is now
beginning to be reflected by the marketplace in our bond
prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 