-- Investec Profit Rises 38% on Asset-Management Unit
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-11-18T11:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/wealth-manager-investec-first-half-attributable-net-rises-to-394-million.html
Investec Plc , a South African
private bank and wealth manager, said fiscal first-half profit
rose 38 percent as its asset-management business grew.  Net income climbed to 247 million pounds ($393 million)
in the six months ended Sept. 30 from 179 million pounds a year
earlier, the firm said in a statement today.  Investec is moving away from lending to conserve capital
while investing in its asset-management business to boost
earnings. The bank, which is traded in London and Johannesburg,
bought British fund manager Rensburg Sheppards Plc in March to
expand the  division . Franklin Resources, owner of Franklin
Templeton Global Investors, today agreed to buy Rensburg’s fund-
management unit for 45 million pounds.  “The world is normalizing, but there are still pockets of
bombs that can go off,” Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Koseff 
said in an interview in Johannesburg today. Bad debts are
declining more slowly than anticipated and are expected to
remain “elevated” through the first quarter of 2011, he said.  Investec  rose 8.5 pence, or 1.7 percent, to 508.5 pence as
of 10:52 a.m. in London trading. The stock has gained 20 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 4.2 billion
pounds.  The lender’s total capital adequacy ratio, a measure of
financial strength, climbed to 16.7 percent in the U.K. from
15.9 percent in March. The credit-loss ratio fell to 1 percent
from 1.16 percent.  ‘Good Value’  Numis Securities Ltd. expects to “modestly upgrade
forecasts” for Investec this year, analysts  James Hamilton  and
 David McCann  said in a note today. The lender beat Numis’s
first-half operating profit estimate by increasing its number of
“principal transactions,” which Numis said it views as
“lower-quality revenue.”  “Investec offers good value given the strong growth
profile,” the analysts said.  Investec left its half-year  dividend  unchanged at 8 pence.
It may increase that when there is more regulatory certainty
about how much capital banks have to carry, Koseff said at a
presentation in Johannesburg.  The company is planning to expand its offices in India and
Hong Kong to capture more business from China and India, Koseff
said. The specialist-banking business will follow the asset-
management unit into Africa in its search for transaction flows,
he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  