-- Weber's Bond Warning Comes Back to Haunt ECB as Ireland Baulks at Bailout
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2010-11-18T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/weber-s-bond-warning-haunts-ecb-as-ireland-baulks-at-bailout.html
Six months after Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  opposed the European Central Bank’s
decision to start buying government bonds, the risks he warned
about may be materializing.  Ireland’s reluctance to accept a European Union bailout has
forced the ECB to step up its bond purchases and lend more money
to the country’s banks. The danger, first raised by Weber in
May, is that the ECB erodes its independence by financing debt-
strapped nations and keeping banks on life support as Europe’s
debt crisis persists.  “If stress rises, the ECB will have to jump in,” said
 Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“But the ECB does not want to again become an active buyer of
peripheral debt or take a lot more risk onto its balance sheet.
Weber wanted to avoid exactly that.”  The ECB has pressed EU governments to find a solution to
the Irish crisis over the past six days. In a sign of growing
concern in the ECB’s Eurotower in Frankfurt, Executive Board
members this week urged Ireland to accept a bailout and re-
stated the bank’s intention to proceed with the withdrawal of
stimulus measures.  EU aid for Ireland “would stabilize the situation,” ECB
Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said yesterday. Board member
 Juergen Stark  said the ECB “will continue” to phase out its
emergency measures after the end of the year.  Contagion Risks  “There is a serious risk of contagion and the ECB doesn’t
want to have to clean up a European banking mess a second time
around,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at
Citigroup Inc in London.  Irish  and  Portuguese  10-year bond yields rose to euro-era
records last week in the second stage of a sovereign debt crisis
that was sparked by Greece a year ago. They were at 8.12 percent
and 6.69 percent respectively last night. Greek 10-year yields
are over 11 percent.  The renewed tensions forced the ECB to ramp up bond buying,
settling 1.07 billion euros ($1.45 billion) of purchases last
week and 711 million euros the week before after three weeks of
inaction.  Irish banks are also borrowing more from the ECB via its
emergency facilities. ECB lending to Irish institutions rose 7.3
percent last month to 130 billion euros.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  tore up the central
bank’s rule book in May, agreeing to prolong emergency lending
to banks and purchase government bonds for the first time as
Greece’s meltdown threatened the survival of the euro.  Out on a Limb  While winning plaudits at the time for his pragmatism, a
lack of will from governments to push through tougher sanctions
on deficit-rule breaches has left the ECB out on a limb, said
 Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.  “Trichet and the ECB have acted way beyond their call of
duty in this whole crisis,” said Brzeski. “It’s not the ECB’s
duty to prop up insolvent banks or states. The problem for
Trichet is that he is expected to clean up the politicians’
mess.”  Weber’s outspoken opposition to the ECB’s bond purchases
reportedly drew the ire of French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
fueling speculation he had damaged his chances of becoming the
ECB’s next president when Trichet’s term ends in a year.  Some economists say Weber is misguided and the ECB should
ramp up its asset-purchase program, currently worth just 65
billion euros, to prevent the debt crisis from spreading.  Bond Purchases  “They need to start buying Spain before that starts
blowing up,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London, who called for the
central bank to spend at least another 100 billion euros on
bonds. “The issue of contagion doesn’t seem to have filtered
through to the ECB.”  Support for Weber’s stance may nevertheless be growing
within the ECB as policy makers are confronted with the
“stability risks” he spoke of in May, said  James Nixon , co-
chief European economist at Societe Generale SA in London.  “Weber’s point was always that the central bank shouldn’t
get involved with financing sovereigns, and that you shouldn’t
blur the line between monetary and fiscal policy -- and that is
what the ECB is now doing,” Nixon said. “I suspect there is
quite a lot of support for Weber’s position beginning to
gather.”  ‘Not the Hostage’  The ECB can’t always provide the rear-guard defense for
troubled governments and banks, council member  Yves Mersch  told
Die Welt newspaper in an interview published yesterday.
While it’s up to Ireland to decide whether to ask for EU aid,
“the ECB will also review its risk management,” and its exit
strategy is “not the hostage of others,” Mersch said.  The ECB’s tough talk “increases the pressure on the
peripheral countries to accept a deal,” said  Gilles Moec , an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  Ireland has so far said it won’t ask for money when
European and International Monetary Fund officials arrive in
Dublin today to begin talks on the banking system’s needs.
Trichet, who speaks in Frankfurt at 2:30 p.m. today, has yet to
comment on a potential Irish bailout.  “The financial issues have become fiscal issues and these
are simply not issues for the ECB,” said  Julian Callow , an
economist at Barclays Capital in London. “They are a challenge
too far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabi Thesing  in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  