-- Westin Hilton Head Resort Owner Files for Bankruptcy Court Protection
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-11-18T15:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/westin-hilton-head-resort-owner-files-for-bankruptcy-court-protection.html
The owner of the  Westin Hilton Head
Island Resort  in South Carolina filed for bankruptcy court
protection from its creditors before its lenders, affiliates of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , could seek a receiver.  Transwest Resort Properties Inc., which also owns the
Westin La Paloma Resort and Country Club in Tucson, Arizona,
listed assets of $10 million to $50 million and debt of $100
million to $500 million in documents filed yesterday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Tucson.  The lenders are “working toward the imminent appointment
of a receiver in state or federal courts,” the company said in
its Chapter 11 petition. Companies use Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code when they plan to reorganize, cut debt and
continue operating.  The case comes as a rebound in travel demand is helping the
U.S. lodging industry recover after last year’s recession sent
occupancies to a 30-year low. Hotel occupancies in the top 25
U.S. markets climbed to 65 percent this year through August from
61 percent a year earlier, according to Smith Travel Research
Inc. of Hendersonville, Tennessee. Stays at U.S. chain hotels
with the costliest rooms rose to 67 percent from 62 percent.  The resorts employ more than 700 people and are managed by
 Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide Inc. , Transwest said in
court papers.  According to the filing, the two JPMorgan affiliates are
owed $209 million, an amount disputed by Transwest.  Transwest said its assets serve as collateral for the
loans. Those assets are worth $89.2 million, the company said.  The case is Transwest Resort Properties Inc. 10-37170, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 