-- Walter Energy Offers to Acquire Western Coal for $3.25 Billion Cash, Stock
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2010-11-18T17:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/western-coal-receives-3-25-billion-proposal-to-combine-with-walter-energy.html
Walter Energy Inc. , a southern
Appalachia producer of steelmaking coal, offered to buy Canada’s
 Western Coal Corp.  for C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) to increase
its access to the commodity as rising demand drives up prices.  Walter Energy, based in Tampa, Florida, bid for the
outstanding common shares of Western Coal at C$11.50 a share in
cash and stock, the U.S. company said in a statement, adding
that it’s in exclusive talks. It also agreed to buy a 19.8
percent stake in Western Coal from largest shareholder Audley
European Opportunities Master Fund Ltd. for C$630 million.  “A transaction with Western Coal would be transformational
for our company,”  Joe Leonard , interim chief executive officer
of Walter Energy, said in the statement. “The combined company
would be the leading publicly traded pure-play metallurgical
coal producer in the world.”  Producers are seeking to add assets and expand reserves as
prices for coking, or steelmaking, coal advance. Demand from
Asia drove fourth-quarter prices up 62 percent from a year
earlier to $209 a ton, according to a benchmark contract between
 BHP Billiton Ltd. , the largest exporter, and Japanese
steelmakers JFE Holdings Inc. and Kobe Steel Ltd.  Higher Premium  Walter Energy’s bid represents a 59 percent premium to
Western Coal’s 20-day  average price  of C$7.23 on the Toronto
Stock Exchange. That compares with an average premium of 24
percent for coal-industry deals announced this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “An almost 60 percent premium seems a lot,” said  Sachin Shah , a special situations and merger arbitrage strategist at
Capstone Global Markets in New York. “As the largest
shareholder supports it, some kind of deal will eventually
happen.”  Western Coal  rose C$3.38, or 46 percent, to C$10.76 at
11:40 a.m. in Toronto.  Walter Energy  fell 34 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $94.37 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Walter Energy will begin due diligence “immediately” with
a view to reaching an agreement in the next two weeks, Leonard
said today on a conference call.  Morgan Stanley is advising Walter, and Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP and Osler Hoskin & Harcourt LLP are legal counsel.
Western Coal is using Royal Bank of Canada, Cenkos Securities
Plc, Goodmans LLP, Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP,
and Trowers & Hamlins LLP.  Global Steel Production  Walter has forecast more than 50 percent growth in global
steel output in the next decade, boosting consumption of coking
coal. “China, Brazil and India will continue to see major
growth; these dynamics will increase demand,” Leonard said.  Walter  will raise its output by 36 percent to 9.5 million
tons in 2012, while Western Coal, which operates in Canada, the
U.S. and Britain, is targeting production of 11 million tons in
the fiscal year through March 2013, up from 6.7 million tons in
fiscal 2011, according to the statement.  “The increase in production and reserves would position
the new entity to capitalize on the current and anticipated
strength in the global metallurgical coal markets,” Walter
said.  Massey Energy Co. , the largest Central Appalachian coal
producer with 2.8 billion tons of reserves, will consider merger
proposals from steelmakers at a board meeting on Nov. 21, CEO
 Don Blankenship  said yesterday in New York. Closely held U.S.
producer Drummond Co., which has assets in Colombia, may be
targeted by  BHP , UBS AG said Nov. 5.  Walter Energy and Western Coal won’t pay penalties if a
“definitive agreement” isn’t reached and the exclusivity
agreement between them isn’t binding, according to a separate
statement from Western Coal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  