-- Wheat Rises on Signs Global Demand to Outpace Supply After Russian Drought
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-11-18T19:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/wheat-futures-rise-on-signs-global-demand-will-outpace-supply.html
Wheat futures capped the biggest
gain in almost two weeks on signs that global demand is
outpacing supplies from crops damaged by adverse weather.  U.S. exporters sold 986,944 metric tons of wheat the week
ended Nov. 11, up 19 percent from a week earlier, the Department
of Agriculture said today. Egypt, the world’s biggest importer,
bought 175,000 tons from the U.S. in a tender. A drought cut
Russian output, and the dollar’s drop boosted the appeal of U.S.
goods, said  Tomm Pfitzenmaier  of Summit Commodity Brokerage.  “Demand is going to continue to stay strong, if for no
other reason than for all the problems in Russia this summer,”
said Pfitzenmaier, a partner at the Des Moines, Iowa-based
company.  Wheat futures for March delivery climbed 13 cents, or 1.9
percent, to settle at $6.845 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the biggest gain for a most-active
contract since Nov. 5. The grain jumped 43 percent since the end
of June as supplies dwindled.  Last year, Russia was the third-largest exporter. The U.S.
was first, followed by Canada.  The dollar fell as much as 0.8 percent against a basket of
six currencies today. The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of
19 raw materials climbed as much as 2.5 percent, led by gains in
sugar, silver and coffee.  Wheat also rose because of “perceived production
problems” in the U.S., where dry weather has threatened winter
crops, Pfitzenmaier said. Regions in the Great Plains that grow
the hard-red variety will be “mostly dry” through Nov. 21,
World Weather Inc. said.  ‘Absolutely Horrible’  Recent rains still helped crops in the Midwest and
Southeast, said  Dewey Strickler , the president of Ag Watch
Market Advisers in Nashville, Tennessee. Conditions are
improving from sections of Arkansas to Ohio, while dry weather
has persisted in western Kansas and Colorado, according to the
National Weather Service’s Seasonal  Drought Outlook .  “Our wheat crop a couple of weeks ago looked absolutely
horrible, and I was really concerned,” Strickler said. “We’ve
had a little bit of moisture in the Southeast, and that’s
definitely helped.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  