-- Wind to Increase Loan by 500 Million Euros, Cut Bond
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t
-- 2010-11-18T14:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/wind-to-increase-loan-by-500-million-euros-after-scaling-back-bond-issue.html
Wind Telecomunicazioni SpA increased
a loan by 500 million euros ($682 million) to 3.93 billion euros
and scaled back a planned bond issue by the same amount,
according to three people with knowledge of the sale.  Borrowers will return to banks as sources of funding in the
coming year, relying less on bonds, Societe Generale SA said
yesterday. Demand for loans pushed the average bid price for
actively-traded European deals to a three-year high of 97.23 on
Nov. 4, according to Standard & Poor’s LCD.  The Rome-based company will now raise 2.7 billion euros
from the biggest issue of high-yield bonds in Europe this year,
said the people, who declined to be identified because terms are
private. The premium investors demand to hold bonds of European
issuers rated below investment-grade jumped 24 basis points this
month to an average 589 basis points, a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index shows.  A spokeswoman for Wind Telecom who didn’t want to be
identified declined to comment. Wind is raising the loans and
bonds to refinance existing debt as parent Weather Investments
SpA prepares to merge with Russia’s VimpelCom Ltd.  Wind plans to sell a 1.52 billion-euro six-year term loan
paying interest of 4 percentage points over benchmarks, and a
2.01 billion-euro seven-year term loan that pays a margin of 4.5
percentage points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
There’s also a 400 million-euro six-year revolving credit.  Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, Banca IMI SpA,
BNP Paribas SA, Credit Agricole SA, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc, JPMorgan Chase &
Co, Morgan Stanley, Natixis and UniCredit SpA are underwriting
the loan, the data show. WestLB AG joined as an arranger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Isabell Witt  in London on 
 iwitt4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  