-- Woolworths New CEO Ian Moir Plans African Expansion, More Online Shopping
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2010-11-18T17:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/woolworths-new-ceo-ian-moir-plans-african-expansion-more-online-shopping.html
Ian Moir, the new chief executive
officer of South African food and clothing retailer  Woolworths
Holdings Ltd.,  intends to open stores in more African countries
and sell a broader range of products online to win customers.  Moir took over the Cape Town-based company from Simon
Susman today, after a decade as CEO of its Australian unit,
Country Road. Woolworths operates in about 12 African countries
and is studying several other markets for expansion, he said.  “We are considering where we are with our Africa
strategy” and will disclose details early next year, Moir said
in an interview in Cape Town today. “In the longer term Africa
will be a very important  market  for us. It does take time to get
to critical mass, but unless you make the commitment now you
will not achieve that.”  Woolworths  sales  doubled over the past six years as it
opened more stores and expanded its product range. Sales rose 11
percent in the 20 weeks through Nov. 14, while sales at stores
open at least a year increased 6.9 percent, the company said in
a stock exchange filing today.  “Consumer confidence is reasonably strong” in South
Africa, Moir said. “We are growing well, we are growing market
share. We have sound strategies. I don’t intend to turn the
business upside down. I don’t intend to make major changes.”  Wal-Mart Threat  Woolworths food stores compete with  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. 
and  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. , South Africa’s biggest grocery
chains. They may also soon face opposition from Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., the world’s largest retailer, which has proposed buying a
controlling stake in  Massmart Holdings Ltd. , the country’s
biggest food and general goods wholesaler.  Wal-Mart is “going to impact on this marketplace and it
will become a more competitive environment,” Moir said. “It’s
going to have more of an impact on others than us.”  The greatest short-term effect for Woolworths from Wal-
Mart’s entry would stem from increased demand for  workers , the
CEO said. “The competition for talent and skill in this
marketplace is going to become much greater.”  Woolworths intends to begin selling clothing on the
Internet early next year, as well as offering its entire food
range online.  “We see this as a major opportunity for us,” Moir said.
“We are building the platform at the moment. It will be far
more flexible and the systems will be better” than the existing
Internet grocery sales system.  Union Dispute  The South African Clothing and Textile Workers Union has
been pushing Woolworths and other retailers to negotiate wages
on an industry-wide basis and threatened to strike unless its
demands are met.  Unions represent about 25 percent of the company’s workers,
Moir said, adding Woolworths hasn’t received a strike notice.  “We have always been very clear on centralized
bargaining,” he said. “We don’t think it’s appropriate for the
retail industry. If there is to be a strike, there will be a
strike.”  Woolworths  shares  fell 46 cents, or 1.6 percent, to close
at 28 rand in Johannesburg today, trimming their advance over
the past 12 months to 60 percent and the company’s market value
to 23.8 billion rand ($3.4 billion).  The retailer is not related to London-based Woolworths
Group Plc, which collapsed in 2008, or Woolworths Ltd., located
in Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 