-- World Bank, After Delay, Did Record Crisis Lending
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-11-19T01:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/world-bank-was-slow-in-responding-to-global-crisis-internal-audit-says.html
The World Bank responded with “some
delay” to the global financial crisis, before using spare
capital and relationships with member countries to boost loans
to a record $80.6 billion, an internal evaluation said.  The bank’s sister institution, the  International Monetary
Fund , cut its growth forecast and stressed the urgency to act on
the financial turmoil earlier, according to a report by the
 Independent Evaluation Group . As the same time, the World Bank,
while committing less money, ultimately disbursed more than the
IMF’s $67 billion from July 2008 through June 2010, the internal
evaluation said.  “Given that the crisis emerged in the financial sector of
advanced countries, the IMF had a more natural role in leading
and sounding the alarm, but the bank still needed to -- and
eventually did -- react strongly,” the report said. Areas
needing improvement “include the ability to act quickly in the
event of such crises and preparedness to carry out financial
sector interventions,” auditors said.  The Washington-based bank estimates that as a consequence
of the global recession, 64 million people more will live on
less than $1.25 a day in 2010. After a strong increase in
lending, the bank warned last year it may have to ration loans
without a capital increase and obtained shareholder support for
one in April.  Deteriorating Conditions  Addressing the bank’s alleged slowness to recognize the
crisis, management in a written response said that the report
“does not highlight a number of internal briefings” before
October 2008. Those briefings outlined that “many developing
countries would be adversely affected by the deteriorating
global economic conditions” and that “private sector
investment and private capital flows would be under heavy
pressure,” management said.  “We responded quickly, effectively and with record
assistance,” said Richard Mills, a spokesman for the bank.  The evaluation found at the onset of the turmoil, once the
bank “internalized the crisis,” it was able to step up aid
quickly because a dialogue already existed with countries, which
“enabled more rapid engagement” with authorities. The auditors
report directly to the bank’s board of directors.  It also helped that the bank’s unit that lends to emerging
countries had an equity-to-loan ratio at 38 percent, higher than
its target of 23 percent to 27 percent, “giving it substantial
room to expand lending,” according to the report.  The unit lending to the private sector was more restrained,
and its response was “important and creative, even as its
execution did not match intentions,” it said.  Crisis Response  The bank’s management response was that the report
“underplays the quality and significance” of the private-
sector unit’s crisis response, “by focusing too narrowly on
commitment volume and downplaying the critical development
impact of helping existing clients.”  The unit that  lends to the poorest  countries at no interest
had less leeway because its funding was predetermined, the
report said.  Consultations with low-income nations in August 2009
“provide evidence of countries’ appreciation of the bank’s
response, but also of complaints about the speed of that
response,” according to the report. “For many participants,
the effectiveness of the bank’s response compared unfavorably
with that of the IMF and the regional development banks.”  Still, collaboration between the IMF and the bank, “which
had been a major problem during the East Asian crisis, appears
to have been better this time,” the audit found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  