-- Zenyatta Retires From Thoroughbred Horse Racing After 19 Straight Wins
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2010-11-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/zenyatta-retires-from-thoroughbred-horse-racing-after-19-straight-wins.html
Zenyatta is to retire from horse
racing, two weeks after narrowly failing at the Breeders’ Cup
Classic to log her 20th straight win.  The 6-year-old mare is expected to arrive at Lane’s End
Farm near Versailles, Kentucky, next month. Breeding plans have
yet to be completed.  “Zenyatta was one of the most memorable thoroughbreds ever
to grace the American racing stage,”  Alex Waldrop , president
and chief executive officer of the National Thoroughbred Racing
Association, said in a statement. “Her record stands on its own
merits, as does the impact she had on millions of fans all
around the world.”  Zenyatta earned more than $7.3 million, a North American
record for a filly or mare, in winning 13 Grade 1 stakes. She
also was named champion older mare in 2008 and 2009 and ended
her career tied with Peppers Pride, who was undefeated as she
won her 19th and final race on Dec. 14, 2008.  Zenyatta was the first mare to beat a field of male
contenders in the 2009 Breeders’ Cup Classic. A match between
the mare and Horse of the Year Rachel Alexandra was planned
several times in 2010, although the race never happened before
 Jess Jackson ’s thoroughbred retired.  Zenyatta’s owner  Jerry Moss , the founder of A&M Records
Inc., brought the horse out of retirement for the 2010
thoroughbred racing campaign.  Zenyatta, going for a perfect record, lost the $5 million
Breeders’ Cup Classic by inches to Blame on Nov. 6 at Churchill
Downs in Louisville, Kentucky.  “It was an incredible sporting gesture for the Mosses to
race Zenyatta again in 2010 and to share her athleticism and
charisma with the world,” said Breeders’ Cup President and
Chief Executive Officer  Greg Avioli  in a statement. “For our
sport and for the Breeders’ Cup, in particular, she was a
transcendent figure whose impact was felt far beyond her on-
track performances, as brilliant as they were.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  