-- Zipcar Acquiring U.K. Car-Sharing Company Streetcar Approved by Regulator
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-11-18T07:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-18/zipcar-acquisition-of-streetcar-in-u-k-is-approved-by-antitrust-regulator.html
Zipcar Inc. , the U.S. car-sharing
company that rents vehicles by the hour, won approval for its
acquisition of London-based Streetcar Ltd. following a probe by
a U.K. antitrust regulator.  The deal isn’t a threat to competition because other
companies are likely to enter the market, the  Competition
Commission  in London said today in a statement. The watchdog
started investigating in August after another regulator, the
Office of Fair Trading, said the takeover could reduce
competition in the industry and drive up prices.  The investigation started two months after Zipcar, based in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, said it would seek to raise as much as
$75 million through an initial public offering. The company,
which entered the U.K. market in 2007, was the second-biggest
car-sharing company in London when it bought its larger rival.  “Industry estimates have car club membership numbers
increasing eightfold over the next decade so this is a fast-
growing and therefore potentially attractive market for new and
expanding providers, particularly in London,” said Peter Davis,
chairman of the commission group investigating the case. “The
competition we expect from new and expanding companies will
prevent the merged company from exploiting its position and
damaging customer interests.”  Zipcar has said the combined company would reduce vehicle
ownership and congestion and offer consumers access to more
cars, locations and enhanced technology. The company said in it
has more than 400,000 members and about 7,000 vehicles in the
U.S., Canada and the U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 