-- Aeon Q1 profit falls 16 pct on weak Talbots sales
-- By Aiko Wakao
-- Tue Jul 10, 2007 5:30am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/07/10/businesspro-aeon-results-dc-idUST4062120070710

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Aeon Co., Japan's second-biggest retail 
group, on Tuesday said quarterly operating profit fell 16 
percent due to poor sales at its U.S. apparel unit Talbots Inc. 
and some goodwill charges. 

  Despite weak first-quarter results, Aeon stuck to its 
forecast for an eighth year of record earnings, citing a 
rebound in domestic superstore sales and the appointment of a 
new chief executive at Talbots.  "We expect a significant recovery in earnings in the fiscal 
second half," Aeon Executive Vice President Masaaki Toyoshima 
told reporters in Tokyo. "We think that would make up for the 
weak first quarter and help us realize our annual targets."  Aeon has been speeding up its reorganization efforts to 
improve profit margins and cut costs as Japanese consumers have 
been wary of spending more in light of tame wage growth.  Some economists argued consumption may finally be picking 
up in the world's second-largest economy after recent data 
showed domestic retail sales unexpectedly rose in May from a 
year ago.  Operating profit was 28.38 billion yen ($230.2 million) in 
the first quarter ended May 20, down from 33.8 billion yen in 
the same period a year ago, the Chiba, Japan-based retailer 
said. That compares with a quarterly profit forecast of 33-35 
billion yen by Macquarie Securities.  Aeon said operating profit fell by 2 billion yen after 
booking some goodwill charges stemming from an accounting 
change.  Operating profit at Aeon's specialty store segment, which 
includes contributions from its 55 percent-owned Talbots, 
dropped 59 percent to 2.3 billion yen in the quarter from a 
year earlier.  Talbots, which makes up about 5 percent of Aeon's earnings, 
has hired Trudy Sullivan, an industry veteran at Liz Claiborne, 
to lead its turnaround efforts.  In the first quarter, Talbots posted a 62 percent drop in 
operating profit, hit by slow revamp efforts at its J-Jill 
franchise and weak same-store sales.
  SUPERMARKET ALLIANCE  Aeon has also been taking on rivals such as Seven & I 
Holdings and Wal-Mart's local unit Seiyu by expanding on 
acquisitions.  Earlier this year, Aeon paid some $500 million for stakes 
in supermarket chains Daiei Inc. and Maruetsu Inc.  Aeon, Maruetsu and trading company Marubeni Corp. on 
Tuesday also announced a business alliance.  Same-store sales at Aeon superstores in the quarter were 
unchanged from a year ago, missing the company's target for a 1 
percent increase, because of sluggish sales of spring clothing.  But overall, Aeon's quarterly group sales rose 8.7 percent 
to 1.23 trillion yen thanks to gains at its mainstay retail 
segment and shopping mall developer businesses like Aeon Mall 
and Diamond City Co.  The company kept unchanged its operating profit forecast of 
200-210 billion yen in the year to next February 20, up 5 to 11 
percent from 189.7 billion it posted a year earlier.  That compares with 203.6 billion yen average forecast based 
on 12 analysts surveyed by Reuters Estimates.  Shares in Aeon closed flat at 2,265 yen before the company 
announced earnings results.  The stock has fallen 20 percent in the quarter, which 
compares with a 2.9 percent decline in the overall benchmark.  Last week, Seven & I, Japan's biggest retailer, said its 
quarterly operating profit gained 6 percent to 71 billion yen, 
helped by a rebound at its supermarket operations.