-- HIGHLIGHTS-UK's Darling details Northern Rock plans
-- 
-- Mon Jan 21, 2008 11:09am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/21/britain-darling-northernrock-idUSDARLING20080121

 

 LONDON  Jan 21 (Reuters) - British finance minister Alistair
Darling gave a statement to parliament on Monday outlining his
proposals for the future of stricken lender Northern Rock
NRK.L. 

  The following are comments from Darling and opposition
members of parliament.  
  DARLING ON URGENCY OF SOLUTION  "Matters do need to be brought to a head."  "I want to bring about a situation where the company can
stand on its own two feet as soon as possible."  
  GEORGE OSBORNE, CONSERVATIVE SHADOW CHANCELLOR  "The Northern Rock factor has badly dented the UK's
reputation for being the world's pre-emminent financial centre.
Now can I welcome the fact he now implicitely agrees with me
that me that full nationalisation will destroy that reputation
altogether.  "He should be more strict with people about the real
consequences of his latest attempt to get out of the mess
created by Labour's economic incompetence."  
  VINCE CABLE, LIBERAL DEMOCRAT TREASURY SPOKESMAN  "What we have here is a naked King Gordon trying to cover
his embarrassment over the 'N' word of nationalisation."  
  DARLING ON CONDITIONS OF BOND SUPPORT  "Our willingness to put this support in place depends
entirely on the terms on which a deal can be struck. I will only
authorise support for the private sector if the public interest
will be better served than through taking the company into
temporary public ownership.  "In addition to this, any acceptable proposal would also
need to comply with clear conditions. The company will need to
demonstrate how it can operate sustainably in future without any
government support and we will favour proposals that reach this
point quickly.  "New private sector capital will be needed, so that the
private sector - not the taxpayer - takes the burden of risk for
commercial success or failure. So long as the government
continues to provide a backstop guarantee, we will require
restrictions on any sale of the company and on dividend
payments."  
  DARLING ON BALANCE SHEET TREATMENT  "It is for the independent Office of National Statistics to
determine whether Northern Rock is classified to the public
sector in the National Accounts. Any liabilities classified to
the public sector would be temporary and backed by significant
assets and do not represent any meaningful measure of fiscal
sustainability. The Code for Fiscal Stability - underpinned by
legislation passed by this House - provides for such
situations."  
  GEORGE OSBORNE, CONSERVATIVE SHADOW CHANCELLOR  "No British government has provided taxpayer ssupport on
this scale... This is back to the 1970s. Life in Brown's Britain
is like an episode of Life on Mars."  "This is a part nationalisation because the government takes
the bulk of the risk and the private sector takes the bulk of
the upside."
  DARLING ON PROPOSAL AIMS  "The proposals that I set out today for a solution to
Northern Rock - which is underpinned by Government support - is
one which best meets our objectives of protecting taxpayers and
depositors and maintaining financial stability."  
  DARLING ON OPTIONS  "Let me make it clear that the Government's position - which
I reiterated most recently at Treasury Select Committee on 10
January - is that a private sector solution for Northern Rock is
preferable route for meeting our three objectives but this
cannot be at any cost.       "If it does not prove possible to secure a proposal that
meets our stated objectives and conditions, it would be
necessary to take Northern Rock into temporary public ownership.
For that reason it would be irresponsible to rule it out."  
  DARLING ON NEED FOR PUBLIC FUNDS  "Whilst conditions are better now than they were before
Christmas they remain difficult and the Government's financial
advisers believe that there is no chance of achieving a private
sector deal backed entirely with private finance in the near
future."  
  DARLING ON ADMINISTRATION  "Administration would mean that control would immediately
pass to an administrator who would look to realise the value of
the company's assets which, under current market conditions,
would amount to a fire sale. It could also exacerbate current
market turbulence. And costs would be significant. I have
therefore rejected such a proposal."  
  DARLING ON GOVERNMENT GUARANTEE  "My proposal today is one in which Northern Rock is owned
and run in the private sector as a commercial bank - and where
the Government provides a backstop guarantee to make private
financing possible in the current market conditions. I believe
this company should be managed with private sector disciplines
and management, provided we can do so on terms which properly
protect taxpayers' interests."


