-- Air Canada Adds Round-trip Fuel Charge of Up to C$120
-- Hugo Miller
-- 2008-05-09T21:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-05-09/air-canada-adds-round-trip-fuel-charge-of-up-to-c-120-update2-.html

          
          
             Air Canada (AC/A) , the country's largest
airline, added a fuel surcharge of as much as C$120 ($119.22) on
round-trip flights within North America to offset the rising
price of  jet fuel .  
 The Montreal-based carrier will tack on C$60 for one-way
transcontinental trips and fees of as much as C$40 on shorter
flights, dependent on length, spokesman  Peter Fitzpatrick  said.  
 Air Canada's adoption of the fee underscores the strain on
its finances after posting a wider first-quarter loss yesterday
blamed in part on increased spending on fuel. The move may
backfire by damping  travel demand , Jacques Kavafian, a Toronto-
based analyst at Research Capital Corp., said in a note.  
 ``This is a very large surcharge and if it materially
increases the final price to consumers, it may negatively impact
loads,'' said Kavafian, who  rates  Air Canada as ``buy.''  
 While a stronger Canadian dollar has helped ease this
year's 39 percent surge in the price of jet fuel, the country's
carriers are still struggling to compensate for the run-up.  
 The fuel surcharge is Air Canada's first in at least three
years, Kavafian said. Air Canada has used surcharges before on
intercontinental routes, and typically raised fares in  North
America  to blunt higher costs, Kavafian said.  
 Fitzpatrick said he couldn't immediately confirm when Air
Canada last added a surcharge or how many fare increases the
airline has adopted this year.  
 WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA) , Canada's second-largest carrier, may
add a fuel surcharge, which is more effective than raising
fares, Chief Executive Officer Sean Durfy said on a conference
call last week.  
 ``We're still assessing the situation, but no decision has
been made at the moment,'' Gillian Bentley, a spokeswoman for
Calgary-based WestJet, said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Versical at 
 dversical@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        