-- Why Warren Buffett Is Wrong About Cap and Trade: Eric Pooley
-- Eric Pooley
-- 2009-07-14T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-07-13/why-warren-buffett-is-wrong-about-cap-and-trade-eric-pooley.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett  carries plenty of
weight in any debate -- even when he gets it wrong.  
 So as the Senate digs into the climate-change bill that
passed the House of Representatives last month, it’s worth
taking a hard look at how Buffett’s views on the bill went off
course.  
 Buffett knows global warming is real and carbon emissions
must be cut. But he’s worried that the bill might hurt his
electric utility, Des Moines, Iowa-based  MidAmerican Energy
Holdings Co.   
 He may be right. But that doesn’t mean this is a bad bill;
it may mean MidAmerican made some bad decisions.  
 On another count, Buffett is simply wrong when he calls the
bill a “huge, regressive tax” that would ensure “very poor
people are going to pay a lot more for their electricity.”
Likewise  David Sokol , the chairman of MidAmerican, was wrong
when he testified that the cost of buying carbon allowances
under the bill would drive up Iowa electricity prices by $110
per month per customer in the first year.  
 Opponents of the bill have latched onto Buffett and Sokol’s
words, trumpeting them on the House floor and in a July 7 Senate
hearing. So let’s examine their three basic claims:  
 Claim 1: It’s regressive. No, the bill doesn’t punish the
poor. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found that it
would  cost  the average household $175 a year by 2020, while the
20 percent of Americans with the lowest incomes would come out
ahead by $40 a year.  
 ‘Cap and Tax’  
 Claim 2: It’s a tax. In spite of the Republican Party’s
relentless “cap-and-tax”  talk , cap and trade isn’t a tax. It
is a dumping fee for greenhouse gases. The dumping permits, or
allowances, are distributed to utilities and other large
emitters, who can then buy and sell them.  
 How is this different from a tax? First, the number of
allowances declines over time, guaranteeing that emissions go
down. A tax can’t do that. Second, since allowances can be
bought and sold, capital flows to the most cost-effective
technologies. A new tax means more work for accountants. Cap and
trade unleashes the engineers.  
 Buffett and Sokol don’t want cap and trade or a tax, which
means there would be no price signal driving innovation. They
prefer what Sokol calls “cap and no trade,” which is another
way of saying they want old-school government regulation. That
approach would be more expensive than cap and trade.  
 Claim 3. It costs $110 a month. In early June Sokol told a
House committee, “In Iowa, our cost increase just for?784,000
customers is $283 million in the first year” for buying the
emission allowances that aren’t given away. “That’d be $110 per
month, per customer.”  
 ‘Basic Math’  
 Texas Congressman  Joe Barton  repeated the scary number
during the floor debate in late June. “It’s just basic math!”
Barton cried.  
 Sokol now says he got his math wrong. The $110 figure, he
told me, assumes that MidAmerican’s 217,000 Iowa residential
customers would bear the entire burden of buying allowances and
that commercial and industrial users wouldn’t pay a dime. “But
it’s not conceivable that the regulator would put all of this on
the residential customers,” he said. “So that is not a
terribly useful number.”  
 Why didn’t Sokol correct the figure before Barton said it
again? Sokol now says $110 equals the combined monthly cost of
buying allowances plus paying for all the new technology
MidAmerican will need to slash emissions over the next 40 years.  
 Facing Reality  
 In reality, the technology cost is unknowable. It’s also
the sort of estimate utilities routinely exaggerated in previous
environmental battles. And MidAmerican’s new calculation happens
to work out to the precise figure Sokol had already used -- a
remarkable coincidence.  
 Cutting carbon emissions won’t be free, but Sokol hasn’t
helped his case by hyping the costs for Iowa consumers, who have
gone 14 years without a rate increase. His revised estimate for
the allowance costs comes to an average of $30 per month per
customer -- residential, commercial, and industrial.  
 That’s a far cry from $110, but even it is too high,
according to economist Nat Keohane of the Environmental Defense
Fund, because it assumes that rate payers will foot the bill for
all of MidAmerican’s allowance costs -- including the 30 percent
of its power it sells into the deregulated wholesale market.  
 MidAmerican wouldn’t get free allowances for that wholesale
power under the bill, and I think that’s the real reason Buffett
and Sokol are against it. The system is designed so that free
permits flow downstream to the people who pay for the power.
That’s good for consumers, but could hurt MidAmerican
shareholders, meaning Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  
 Bottom line: MidAmerican made some bad calls. It turned on
a huge new coal-fired plant in 2007. It chose not to spin off
its wholesale power business. And when other utilities were
hammering out their allocation deals with Congress, Sokol and
Buffett sat out the negotiation.  
 The Oracle of Omaha apparently didn’t see this one coming.
But it’s not too late: the next round of negotiation is just
getting under way.  
 ( Eric Pooley , a former managing editor of Fortune magazine
who is writing a book about the politics of global warming, is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Eric Pooley at  epooley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Warren Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., gestures towards attendees taking his photo at the Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting in Omaha, Nebraska, on May 3, 2009. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
