-- `Dispirited' Businesses May Not React to Further Easing, Fed's Fisher Says
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-29T18:56:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/-dispirited-businesses-may-not-react-to-further-easing-fed-s-fisher-says.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the U.S. economy faces a “slow
slog” and further monetary accommodation may not revive
businesses “dispirited” by tax and regulatory changes.  
 “No amount of further monetary accommodation is going to
do the trick,” he said in response to audience questions after
a speech today in San Antonio. “We’ll be pushing on a string,
in my opinion.”  
 The regional Fed chief, 61, said he expects growth below 3
percent for a “prolonged period,” buttressing the Fed’s Beige
Book business survey yesterday which showed the recovery slowing
in some areas over the past two months. The number of Americans
filing first-time claims for unemployment insurance was 457,000
last week, a figure that signals the labor market will be slow
to improve, Labor Department figures showed today.  
 “We continue our slow slog out of what proved to be a most
hellish downturn in 2008 and 2009,” the bank president told the
Greater San Antonio Chamber of Commerce.  
 “I fear the nation’s economy will be sailing forward at
suboptimal speed, despite the fact that the cost of borrowing is
low, equity markets have shown resilience, and liquidity is
plentiful,” Fisher said. He doesn’t vote on the rate-setting
Federal Open Market Committee again until 2011.  
 Minutes of the FOMC’s most recent meeting in June show
officials open to the possibility of taking new actions to
stimulate the economy, should the outlook worsen. Policy makers
at the gathering retained their pledge to keep the benchmark
interest rate at a record low for an “extended period” and
signaled that Europe’s debt crisis may harm American growth.  
 Resume Purchases  
 Fisher’s comments today appear to place him closer to the
views of Fed presidents such as  Jeffrey Lacker  of Richmond, who
said on July 12 that any consideration of further easing is
remote.  James Bullard , head of the St. Louis Fed, said earlier
today that the central bank should resume purchases of Treasury
securities if the economy slows and prices fall.  
 The Fed “did manage to stave off what otherwise would have
been deflationary forces,” Fisher said to reporters after the
speech. “We’re still seeing slightly increasing prices,” Fisher
said, adding he doesn’t “see any deflationary net pressure.”  
 Businesses “are increasingly distressed by the lack of
consistent direction coming from Washington,” Fisher said.
“They are confused and dispirited by random refereeing.” It’s
possible “further monetary accommodation might make the
situation worse” if the Fed is seen as “politically pliable”
and “prone to substituting such accommodation for fiscal
discipline.”  
 ‘Provide the Stuff’  
 “As long as our economic players, businesses and
consumers, are beset by unmanageable uncertainty, they will
refrain from making decisions that provide the stuff of economic
growth,” he said.  
 Fisher reiterated his view that the Fed will not
“monetize” the nation’s debt by effectively printing money to
finance the shortfall.  
 The banking industry “appears to be on a very slow mend,”
and yet “uncertainty reigns,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in San Antonio at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        