-- Labor Union Representing 210,000 South African State Workers Begins Strike
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-29T16:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/labor-union-representing-210-000-south-african-state-workers-begins-strike.html

          
          
             South African government ministers
met with public sector workers’ unions to try to end a wage
strike by 210,000 teachers, nurses and other state employees and
prevent it from spreading.  
 Public Service and Administration Minister  Richard Baloyi ,
Basic Education Minister  Angie Motshekga  and Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  spent much of today meeting union members in the
capital, Pretoria, Baloyi’s spokesman, Dumisani Nkwamba, said in
an interview from the city.  
 “This political engagement is part of government’s
attempts to avert a full-blown strike,” Nkwamba said. Meetings
may last “last late into the night,” he said.  
 Unions representing 1.3 million workers are demanding 8.6
percent pay increases and monthly housing allowances of 1,000
rand ($136), backdated to April 1. On July 22, the government
made a final offer to raise wages by 6.5 percent and pay a 750
rand housing allowance.  
 Public services were “running smoothly” today as members
of the Public Servants Association started their strike, Nkwamba
said.  
 “The strike is very well supported,”  Manie de Clercq , the
union’s deputy general manager, said by telephone from Pretoria
earlier today. “The full impact will be difficult to assess. We
will probably do that tomorrow.”  
 Pay Offer Rejected  
 Other public-sector unions also rejected the government’s
pay offer and threatened to go on strike next month unless their
demands were met. South African laws prevent strikes by certain
categories of workers who provide essential services, such as
police officers.  
 A four-week strike in June 2007 shut most schools and
disrupted services at some hospitals, clinics and immigration
offices, and led the government to deploy troops to quell
violent protests.  
 About 3,000 PSA members joined a march in Johannesburg
today, while protests in the coastal cities of Cape Town and
Durban each attracted about 2,000 people, De Clercq said.  
 Reports received from seven of the country’s nine provinces
indicated that schools were operating as normal, Granville
Whittle, a spokesman for the Ministry of Basic Education, said
by telephone from Pretoria.  
 Wages Increases  
 The effect of the strike on border control points and
offices that issue identity documents and passports was still
being assessed,  Ronnie Mamoepa , a spokesman for the Ministry of
Home Affairs, said by telephone from Pretoria.  
 Health Ministry spokesman Fidel Hadebe did not immediately
answer calls to his mobile phone.  
 In May, state transport company Transnet Ltd. gave its
workers an 11 percent wage increase to end an 18-day strike,
which crippled exports, while state-owned power utility Eskom
Holdings Ltd. this month agreed to a 9 percent raise to avert
labor action.  
 The government, which has seen its wage bill double to 259
billion rand during the past five fiscal years, says it must
rein in increases if it’s to improve health, education and other
services.  
 Inflation, which slowed for a sixth consecutive month to
4.2 percent in June, will remain within the central bank’s 3
percent to 6 percent target until the end of 2012, South African
Reserve Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  told reporters on July 22.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        