-- Macquarie Says Investment Bank, Securities Earnings Set to Drop on Markets
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-07-30T06:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/macquarie-says-investment-bank-securities-earnings-set-to-drop-on-markets.html

          
          
             Macquarie Group Ltd. , Australia’s
biggest investment bank, said its three largest units are set to
report lower  earnings  as markets falter and deals dwindle.  
 The outlook reverses Macquarie’s April forecast that all
its businesses were likely to perform better in the year to
March 31, 2011. Unless conditions improve, the advisory,
securities, fixed income and commodities divisions,  accounting 
for more than two-thirds of group income, won’t match last
year’s results, Chief Executive  Nicholas Moore  said today.  
 “M&A activity has been low and it’s difficult for
businesses like Macquarie to excel,” said  Rob Patterson , who
helps oversee A$3.6 billion including Macquarie shares at Argo
Investments in Adelaide, Australia. “It’s the deal flow.
They’re probably working on lots, but not much is happening.”  
 Macquarie stock fell in Sydney trading, extending this
year’s tumble to 23 percent. Macquarie’s plight is not unique:
 Nomura Holdings Inc. , Japan’s biggest brokerage, said today
first-quarter net income fell 80 percent on a slump in
investment banking and trading.  
 Market declines worldwide, Europe’s debt crisis and
concerns about the strength of the global recovery have sapped
deal-making to its lowest level since 2004, Moore said at a
Sydney press conference.  
 “It’s very, very difficult for us to make a forecast about
where we’ll end up at the end of the year,” he said. ”There’s
been a substantial decline in confidence. Europe is making
people nervous. The U.S. is making people nervous. There are a
lot of reasons for nervousness.”  
 Resources Assessment  
 Macquarie dropped 3.1 percent to A$37.20 at the 4:10 p.m.
local time close. The shares have fallen three times as much as
Australia’s benchmark  S&P/ASX 200  index this year. The bank’s
stock has  fallen  for only three of the past 13 years.  
 Moore said Sydney-based Macquarie, with more than 14,600
workers worldwide, is weighing its resources with each unit’s
development plans. He declined to say whether the bank plans to
cut workers to match the transaction drought.  
 “We tend to grow in adverse markets,” Moore said. “In
Asia, we are growing businesses organically. Acquisitions are
much more opportunistic.”  
 The company had A$11.8 billion ($10.6 billion) of capital
as of June 30 -- A$3.1 billion more than the regulatory minimum.
Macquarie has no plans to return excess capital to shareholders,
Moore said. The bank said its “conservative” approach to
funding is weighing on earnings.  
 “Today’s press release is likely to evoke more downward
earnings-forecast revisions,”  Johan Vanderlugt , an analyst at
Daiwa Capital Markets in Melbourne, said in a research report.
Vanderlugt said Macquarie’s funds management business will help
offset declines at the larger divisions, and he maintained an
“outperform” rating on the stock.  
 Offshore Assets  
 Since the financial crisis, Macquarie has driven deeper
into overseas markets,  buying  brokerages, advisory and asset
management businesses in North America. The 41-year-old bank had
earlier pioneered a model of buying and pooling assets, listing
them on an exchange and charging fees for managing them.  
 Citigroup Inc. analysts in Australia said last month that
high-level resignations will hurt Macquarie’s attempts to win
new business.  
 Last month, Macquarie said Andrew Low, chief operating
officer of its investment banking unit, quit for a new business
opportunity.  Jim Rossman , U.S. equity capital markets chief, and
 David Baron , head of U.S. financial sponsors coverage, are among
others to have left, people familiar with the matter have said.  
 Too Early  
 Moore said on April 30 that market conditions were
improving and he expected better performances from all the
 group’s businesses  in the year ending March 2011. Two months
later, Chief Financial Officer  Greg Ward  said it was too early
to say how uncertain markets would affect results and some
businesses were being hurt.  
 By the end of the second quarter, when Macquarie previously
updated its outlook, the  Standard and Poor’s 500 Index  and the
Australian benchmark had dropped 12 percent in the three-month
period, and the  FTSE 100 Index  13 percent.  
 Citigroup’s top executive in Australia,  Stephen Roberts ,
said last week that it was tougher now to get transactions done
than in any period he could recall.  
 Still, Macquarie is among banks hired to arrange the Hong
Kong portion of the initial public offering of Agricultural Bank
of China Ltd. The Chinese bank yesterday sold more stock in Hong
Kong, in addition to raising $19.2 billion in Shanghai and Hong
Kong, to take the IPO closer to becoming the world’s largest.  
 Winning that kind of work is central to Macquarie’s plan to
generate more income from Asia, according to  James Ellis , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in Sydney. Australia accounted
for 48 percent of Macquarie’s income in the year ended March 31,
2010.  
 “The IPO is an important marquee transaction for Macquarie
developing its Asian business and its profile generally,
especially given the high growth and low investment banking
penetration of these markets,” said Ellis.  
 Macquarie’s earnings in the three months to June 30, the
bank’s fiscal first quarter, were slightly higher than a
“subdued” quarter a year earlier, the bank said today.  
 For Related News and Information:
Link to Company News: MQG AU <Equity> CN <GO>
Top Stories: TOP <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Macquarie Group CEO Nicholas Moore speaks during the company's annual general meeting in Sydney. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
