-- Madonna, Warhol Flop, Heroin Death Color Basquiat Documentary
-- Katya Kazakina
-- 2010-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/madonna-warhol-flop-heroin-death-color-basquiat-documentary.html

          
          
             Even before  Jean-Michel Basquiat 
died of a heroin overdose at 27, his friends began selling the
paintings he’d given them, cashing in on his meteoritic success.  
 “Jean-Michel was really upset with that,” said Tamra
Davis, a filmmaker and friend of the artist. “He gave all these
things to people as gifts.”  
 That’s one reason Davis waited 20 years before turning the
footage she shot of the artist in the 1980s into a new
documentary film, “Jean-Michel Basquiat: The Radiant Child.”  
 “I didn’t want him to think that I was one of those
friends,” she said in a recent interview in Manhattan.  
 Davis filmed the artist in his studio over three years and
shot an interview with him in 1986, two years before his death.
The documentary mixes this previously unseen footage with
archival images and comments from ex-girlfriends, dealers,
curators and fellow artists.  
 Intimate and fast-paced, the film tells the story of a
charismatic renegade who made his mark in the New York graffiti
world as a teen and emerged as an art star at age 21. He had an
affair with Madonna, collaborated with  Andy Warhol  and appeared
on the cover of the New York Times magazine. Along the way he
bedded and dumped countless women and turned his back on people
who helped him.  
 Davis, 48, was an exception. They met when the artist came
to Los Angeles for a solo exhibition at  Larry Gagosian ’s gallery
in 1983. Their relationship was flirtatious, but the two never
dated, “which is partially why it lasted for so long,” she
said.  
 Fame Grew  
 Over the course of their friendship, his fame grew. His
exhibitions sold out and prices for his paintings jumped to
$30,000 from $200. She took him to Los Angeles clubs, the race
track and the beach. She was a film student and he suggested she
make a film about him.  
 “You could make a whole movie about people’s crazy Jean-
Michel stories, but I wanted to focus on his art,” said Davis,
sporting strawberry-blonde hair when she arrived for our meeting
on a scooter. “And I also wanted to completely dispel the myth
that he was some idiot savant, wandering the streets and
tumbling into these situations.”  
 Her film has several people testifying to Basquiat’s
ambition, his desire to box with another young star artist,
 Julian Schnabel , who made a feature film about him in 1996, and
to penetrate Warhol’s inner circle.  
 When his coveted collaboration with Warhol turned into a
commercial and critical flop in 1985, Basquiat was crushed; his
self-doubt, drug use and paranoia kicked off a downhill slide
that ultimately led to his tragic end, according to the film.  
 Unable to Paint  
 Shortly before his death, Basquiat met with Davis in Los
Angeles, she said. He was demoralized and unable to paint.  
 “And then he said, ‘I can’t do it anymore. It’s over,’”
she recalled.  
 “The candle had burnt out,” Davis said.  
 The more than 1,000 paintings and as many drawings Basquiat
left behind turned into a lucrative market. His auction record
of $14.6 million was achieved at Sotheby’s New York in 2007.  
 “Jean-Michel Basquiat: The Radiant Child” will run
through Aug. 3 at  Film Forum , 209 W. Houston St., with daily
screenings at 1:15, 3:15, 6, 8 and 10.  
 ( Katya Kazakina  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  
 To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Artist Jean-Michel Basquiat. "Jean-Michel Basquiat: The Radiant Child" is a new documentary about the late artist. Photographer: Benno Friedman/Arthouse Films via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Director Tamra Davis. "Jean-Michel Basquiat: The Radiant Child" is the latest film by Davis, director of "Billy Madison." Photographer: Mike Diamon/Arthouse Films via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       "Untitled"  
                       
                         
                           Sotheby's via Bloomberg 
                         
                         "Untitled" by Jean-Michel Basquiat, a 1981 acrylic, oilstick and spray paint on canvas. The painting fetched $14.6 million at Sotheby's in New York on May 15, 2007, setting an auction record for the artist's work. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     "Untitled" by Jean-Michel Basquiat, a 1981 acrylic, oilstick and spray paint on canvas. The painting fetched $14.6 million at Sotheby's in New York on May 15, 2007, setting an auction record for the artist's work.  Source: Sotheby's via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
