-- Magnate Kebble Chose Being Shot Over Poison to Avoid Jail, Court Hears
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-29T17:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/magnate-kebble-chose-being-shot-over-poison-to-avoid-jail-court-hears.html

          
          
             Murdered South African mining
magnate  Brett Kebble  considered poisoning himself before opting
to be gunned down to avoid jail, a Johannesburg court heard.  
 When three men were commissioned to shoot him five years
ago, Kebble, who had been forced to resign as chief executive
officer of three mining companies, faced a probe after assets
worth hundreds of millions of dollars went missing from  Randgold
& Exploration Ltd.  At the time he also lead JCI Ltd. and Western
Areas Ltd.  
 In an 11-year career in South Africa’s gold mining
industry, Kebble, who died at the age of 41, helped set up two
of the country’s four biggest gold companies,  Harmony Gold
Mining Co.  and  DRDGold Ltd.  Investec Ltd., a bank, and fund
manager Allan Gray Ltd., a shareholder in Kebble’s companies,
pressed for his departure after the assets went missing.  
 “Brett pleaded with me,” Clinton Nassif, who today told
the South Gauteng High court that he arranged Kebble’s killing.
“He was at his wits end with all the trouble.”  
 John Stratton , a former JCI director, helped Kebble look
for a lethal pill “that wouldn’t show up in an autopsy,”
said Nassif, who worked as a security manager for convicted drug
dealer  Glenn Agliotti . Agliotti has pleaded not guilty to
ordering Nassif to have Kebble’s murder carried out at the
mining magnate’s request, describing it as an “assisted
suicide”. Robert Kanarek, a lawyer for Agliotti, declined to
comment today. Agliotti faces charges of murder and conspiracy
to murder.  
 State Witness  
 Nassif, who was arrested before Agliotti, has turned state
witness along with the men he tasked with shooting Kebble in his
car on the night of Sept. 27, 2005, in a bid to avoid
prosecution.  Lawrence Hodes , a lawyer for Agliotti, today called
Nassif a “liar” in court and said he would not qualify for
immunity.  
 Former nightclub doorman Nigel McGurk, one of the men hired
for the killing, on July 27 testified that Agliotti was
responsible for getting payment for the assassination.  
 Stratton, who promised to pay between 1 million rand
($137,000) or 2 million rand for the Kebble killing, never paid
Nassif or Agliotti, while “spinning stories” that the money
would arrive from Mauritius later on, Nassif said.  
 Agliotti’s trial has been delayed, partly because
prosecutors were attempting to secure Stratton’s extradition
from Australia, where he now lives.  
 Yesterday,  Stephen Mildenhall , the former chief investment
officer of Cape Town-based Allan Gray testified that he was shot
in both shoulder by two men in his driveway on Aug. 31, 2005,
the day after Kebble quit the companies.  
 Sushi Knife  
 Nassif said he resisted a request by Kebble and Stratton to
kill Mildenhall. At a meeting at Stratton’s Cape Town home,
Stratton gave him Mildenhall’s address, “pushed a sushi knife
at me and told me to get this done,” Nassif said. After
agreeing to hospitalize Mildenhall for several months, Nassif
and Agliotti commissioned the attack, Nassif said.  
 Investec Ltd. agreed to lend JCI 460 million rand to help
complete a mine development by Western Areas on the world’s
biggest gold deposit on condition Kebble left.  
 Allan Gray wanted his departure to support a concurrent
rights offer by Western Areas, in which it held an about 25-
percent stake, Mildenhall said. JCI held 39 percent of Western
Areas.  
 Agliotti is also charged with conspiring to murder
Mildenhall,  Mark Bristow , the chief executive officer of
 Randgold Resources Ltd. ,  Jean Nortier , the chief executive
officer of  Uranium One Ltd. , and Mark Wellesley-Wood, the former
chief executive officer of  DRDGold .  
 ‘Keep Tabs’  
 The three others were on “a list of people I had to look
into and get profiles done,” Nassif said. “They wanted to
gather information on what they were doing, where they were
going, get bank statements - keep tabs on them.”  
 Shares of Randgold & Exploration were suspended in 2005 and
recommenced trade on June 4, this year. The company now has a
market value of 404 million rand. JCI also has plans to have
trade its shares restarted.  
 The case is: State versus Agliotti, Norbert Glenn, JPV
2008/264, SS154/2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        