-- Agricultural Bank Moves Closer to World's Largest IPO
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-29T08:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/agricultural-bank-increases-size-of-hong-kong-ipo-to-move-closer-to-record.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. 
boosted the size of its initial public offering to about $20.8
billion after selling more stock in Hong Kong, taking it closer
to becoming the largest first-time share sale.  
 China’s largest lender by customers sold a further 3.81
billion shares at the IPO price of HK$3.20, raising HK$12.2
billion ($1.57 billion), it said in a statement today. The IPO
raised $19.2 billion in Shanghai and Hong Kong before the over
allotment.  
 The sale may overtake  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd. ’s $21.9 billion IPO in 2006 if Agricultural Bank exercises
an option to expand the Shanghai offering. China’s five-largest
banks are raising more than $60 billion to boost capital after
record lending in 2009, with ICBC announcing plans for a $6.6
billion rights offering yesterday.  
 Chinese banks “are required by regulators to replenish
capital probably because of last year’s big push to extend
credit to stimulate the economy,” said  Francis Lun , general
manager at Fulbright Securities Ltd. “Compared to European
banks, Chinese lenders are actually very well capitalized.”  
 In Hong Kong, Agricultural Bank  shares  fell as much as 1.7
percent to HK$3.52 and were 0.3 percent lower at HK$3.57 at the
4 p.m. close. Including today, the stock has climbed 9.2 percent
since its July 16 debut, while in Shanghai, where the shares
started trading a day earlier, it has gained 4.8 percent.  
 Agricultural Bank is the last major Chinese bank to go
public, wrapping up a decade-long overhaul of the nation’s
banking industry that cost an estimated $650 billion.  
 Chinese Farmers  
 The IPO of Agricultural Bank, once the weakest lender in
China, makes the nation home to four of the world’s 10 biggest
banks by market value, half a decade after the country’s first
major state-owned lender went public.  
 Agricultural Bank, established to serve the country’s
farmers and less affluent rural areas, boosted profit by 26
percent to 65 billion yuan ($9.6 billion) last year, and
forecasts net income will rise to at least 82.9 billion yuan in
2010, according to its prospectus.  
 ICBC, the world’s largest lender by market value,  said 
yesterday it plans to raise as much as 45 billion yuan to
replenish capital in a rights offer. The bank will sell as many
as 0.6 shares for every 10 held, or up to 15.06 billion shares
in Shanghai and 4.98 billion in Hong Kong.  
 ICBC’s offer adds to plans from other banks to raise funds
after a record $1.4 trillion in lending last year put pressure
on capital levels.  
 Facing Pressure  
 ICBC,  China Construction Bank Corp. , Bank of China Ltd. and
Bank of Communications Ltd. will face a capital shortfall of 480
billion yuan following new requirements for financial strength,
ICBC President  Yang Kaisheng  wrote in an article published in
the 21st Century Business Herald in April.  
 “Chinese banks may start to face some real pressure from
rising non-performing loans as early as August and September,”
said  James Liu , a Shanghai-based analyst at Sinopac Financial
Holdings Co. “Raising capital now may also be a preparation for
that.”  
 Construction Bank, the world’s second-largest lender by
market value, last month won shareholder approval for a plan to
raise as much as 75 billion yuan in a rights offer.  
 China Everbright Bank Co., which has been planning an IPO
since 2008, said last week it plans to sell as many as 6.1
billion shares in Shanghai in an initial public offering that
analysts have estimated may raise as much as 18 billion yuan.  
 AgriBank Debut  
 Agricultural Bank rose 2.2 percent on its debut in Hong
Kong on July 16, after posting the smallest first-day gain among
major rivals in Shanghai a day earlier.  
 The debut followed a drop in Hong Kong’s benchmark index
this year. That contrasts with the earlier IPOs of its four-
largest local rivals, which went public in Hong Kong in 2005 and
2006 amid a five-year bull market. The lender also had to
contend with investor concern that a slowdown in China’s
property market might saddle banks with bad loans.  
 China’s economic growth slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from 11.9 percent in the previous three months.
The country’s policy makers are grappling with the risks posed
by last year’s  credit boom  that fueled the nation’s comeback
from the global recession.  
 China International Capital Corp., Deutsche Bank AG,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Macquarie Group
Ltd. and Morgan Stanley were hired to arrange the Hong Kong
portion of the IPO, along with Agricultural Bank’s investment-
banking unit.  
 CICC, Citic Securities Co., China Galaxy Securities Co. and
Guotai Junan Securities Co. are managing Agricultural Bank’s
yuan-denominated A-share offering.  
 -- Luo Jun , Dingmin Zhang, with assistance from  Judy Chen  in
Shanghai. Editors:  Joost Akkermans ,  Andreea Papuc   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Xiang Junbo, chairman of the Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., speaks to a journalist during a ceremony in Hong Kong. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
