-- AIDS Fight Leads to `Rage, Panic' as Funding for Drugs in Africa Dries Up
-- 
-- 2010-07-29T02:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/aids-fight-leads-to-rage-panic-as-funding-for-drugs-in-africa-dries-up.html

          
          
              
By David Brown
     July 29 (Washington Post) -- Ten years ago, many experts
thought you couldn't bring antiretroviral therapy to people with
AIDS in poor countries. The drugs cost too much, there weren't
enough doctors, the patients wouldn't take the medicines
correctly, and the risk of creating a resistant virus was too
high.
     None of that turned out to be true. About 5.2 million people
with HIV infections are on lifesaving treatment in low- and
middle-income countries. In sub-Saharan Africa, antiretroviral
therapy, much of it paid for by the U.S. government, is
resurrecting whole communities.
     But the world is facing a potentially more intractable
problem: the price of success.
     There's barely enough money to pay for people whose
treatment is underway and who will need it for a lifetime. There
isn't enough to start treatment for about 5 million more who
urgently need it.
     Those new concerns about costs dominated the 18th
International AIDS Conference, which drew 19,300 participants
from 193 countries to Vienna last week.
     "If I were to characterize the mood here, I would say it was
a combination of rage and panic," said Joanne Carter, director of
the anti-poverty group Results and a board member of the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
     The rage is directed at the Obama administration, which many
activists say is reneging on a commitment to continue big annual
increases in global AIDS spending. The panic arises from the
knowledge that in some African countries, patients who want
antiretroviral treatment are being turned away and will soon
start dying.
     Some activists pine for former president George W. Bush, who
launched a much-praised multibillion-dollar fund to fight AIDS
around the world. But now, in the eyes of many, the U.S.
government has replaced the pharmaceutical industry as the main
impediment to progress.
     "The paradox is that the United States government and other
funding partners have decided to either flat-line or reduce their
spending just when funding should be ramped up so we could
actually win the battle," said Paul Zeitz, director of the Global
AIDS Alliance.
     U.S. overseas AIDS funding is part of the Global Health
Initiative (GHI), the Obama administration's $63 billion,
six-year program. The portion devoted to HIV and tuberculosis, an
infection to which AIDS patients are particularly prone, is $44
billion. The rest goes to malaria, maternal and child-health
programs, and the hard-to-define goal of "health systems
strengthening." Although larger than Bush's revolutionary
President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), Obama's GHI
is spread across more agencies. It is less a bullet aimed at the
heart of AIDS than a net cast to capture a flock of health
problems.
     "What it takes to save lives of those with HIV and those
most at risk to contract it is a comprehensive approach that
recognizes the roles of other diseases," Gayle Smith, Obama's
special assistant for development and democracy, wrote on the
White House blog last week.
     AIDS activists say nobody should doubt that the need for
treatment among the 33.4 million people infected with HIV
globally is urgent and largely unmet.
     The United Nations agency UNAIDS estimates that $23.6
billion was needed to address the epidemic in low- and
middle-income countries last year. Yet only $15.9 billion was
available from all sources, public and private. The U.S.
government provided 27 percent of that money, mostly through
PEPFAR, which Bush started in 2003 with a then-staggering
commitment to spend $15 billion on prevention and treatment over
five years.
     The United States has been by far the biggest donor of money
for AIDS treatment to the world's poor, last year providing 58
percent of the $7.6 billion given by governments. Britain, a
distant second, gave 10 percent of the total. Japan, with the
world's third-largest economy, contributed 2 percent.
     This international AIDS assistance has climbed steadily from
$1.2 billion in 2002 to last year's $7.6 billion. The cost of
treating someone with HIV infection has fallen even more
dramatically. In 2000, three-drug antiretroviral therapy cost
about $10,000 a year. With concessionary pricing and the use of
generics, it's now $120 for the world's poorest patients.
     The trouble, activists say, is that the big gains in
generosity and economizing have mostly stopped. International
AIDS assistance was the same in 2008 and 2009, and is not
expected to go up much, if any, this year. The White House
request for global AIDS spending for the next fiscal year is only
2 percent higher than what is being spent this year.
     Although there's argument about the exact numbers, there's
little doubt the Obama administration is on track to spend less
than planned by either the GHI or the Lantos-Hyde Act of 2008,
which renewed PEPFAR and authorized spending $48 billion from
2009 through 2013. Many other donor countries are taking a
similar go-slower approach.
     Still, the need to increase AIDS treatment in those places
is a matter of principle, the activists say. They note that Obama
supported the Lantos-Hyde Act as a senator and campaigned on a
promise of increasing overseas AIDS spending.
     "Bush made a commitment, and then circumstances changed.
Despite the change, he kept his word," said Zeitz of the Global
AIDS Alliance.
     Many AIDS experts and activists also argue that treatment is
an important prevention tool. That's because when a person is
successfully on antiretroviral therapy, HIV virtually disappears
from body fluids, greatly reducing the possibility that the
patient will infect others.
     The GHI "recognizes that we can't treat our way out of the
HIV-AIDS epidemic," Ezekiel J. Emanuel, the president's special
adviser for health policy, wrote in the Huffington Post during
the conference in Vienna. "The key to ending it is to reduce the
number of those who become HIV-positive in the long term -- and
that takes improving their overall health and the health systems
around them."
     Word of the funding constraints is reaching villages and
clinics.
     A letter sent in October from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention instructed PEPFAR partners in Uganda that
they "should only enroll new patients if they are sure that these
new patients can continue to be supported without a future
increase in funding." Carter, the Global Fund board member, said
she met a woman at the AIDS conference who works in that country
and testified to the reappearance of things not seen in years.
     "She is starting to see people die because they don't have
access to antiretrovirals. She is also seeing people sharing
medicines," Carter said. "The fact is, this crisis isn't looming.
It's happening."
 
          
          


  


        