-- Malawi Won't Sign EU Deal Unless Help Offered, Trade Minister Kazembe Says
-- Frank Jomo
-- 2010-07-29T12:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/malawi-won-t-sign-eu-deal-unless-help-offered-trade-minister-kazembe-says.html

          
          
             Malawi won’t sign a trade deal with
the European Union until the union helps the southern African
country bring production standards to European companies’ level,
Trade Minister  Eunice Kazembe  said.  
 Malawi, which has unreliable public utilities and poor
technology standards, stands to lose should it sign the so-
called economic partnership agreements as it would be forced to
trade with the EU on zero-tax terms, Kazembe told reporters
yesterday in the commercial capital, Blantyre.  
 “We need to move cautiously otherwise the Malawi market
will be flooded with European goods,” she said. “We want the
EPAs to be of mutual benefit for the economic development of
both sides.”  
 Peter Thompson, the European Commission’s director for
development, said Malawi should show interest in continuing with
the negotiations by making an offer that would lead to the two
parties discussing how trade can be facilitated.  
 Malawi participates in the EU’s so-called Everything But
Arms initiative, which is designed to boost the economies of
African, Caribbean and Pacific countries by allowing them to
export goods into the EU duty-free area. Malawi is content with
the EBA and sees no reason to hurry into signing the EPAs,
Kazembe said.  
 The  Malawian  unit of  Illovo Sugar Ltd. , Africa’s biggest
producer of the sweetener, last year said the country’s delay in
signing the economic partnership agreements with the EU had
reduced profit levels for the company and means it could only
sell it sugar to regional markets which are less lucrative
compared with European markets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Jomo  in Blantyre via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        