-- Aldar Reports Third Quarterly Loss as Property Sales Drop, Misses Forecast
-- Zainab Fattah
-- 2010-07-29T13:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/aldar-reports-third-quarterly-loss-as-property-sales-drop-misses-forecast.html

          
          
             Aldar Properties PJSC  reported its
third consecutive quarterly loss as the biggest real-estate
developer in Abu Dhabi suffered from lower sales.  
 Second-quarter loss was 475.3 million dirhams ($129.5
million), according to Bloomberg calculations based on half-
yearly data provided by the company today. The average estimate
of  seven analysts  was for a loss of 210 million dirhams for the
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
said first-half loss was 789.5 million dirhams after a profit of
1.14 billion dirhams a year earlier.  
 “The decrease was principally due to lower property sales
recognized,” Aldar said in an e-mailed statement. “The second
half of this financial year is expected to be different due to
the revenue generated from the delivery of Aldar’s projects at
Al Raha Beach and Al Gurm.”  
 Property prices in Abu Dhabi have declined by more than 30
percent from their peak in mid 2008 even as a housing shortage
in the capital persists, according to Jones Lang LaSalle
estimates published in February. Aldar’s first-half revenue more
than halved to 427 million dirhams from 1 billion dirhams a year
earlier, while sales valued at 695 million dirhams made in the
first half will be included in future income, the company said.  
 “We expect revenue and earnings to remain muted due to lack
of land sales and large-scale unit deliveries,” most of which
are scheduled for the second half, Deutsche Bank AG’s analyst
 Nabil Ahmed  wrote in a note to clients on July 7. The investment
bank expects the company’s recurring revenues from rentals and
hotels “to ramp up.”  
 Building Contracts  
 Aldar, which is building thousands of homes, offices and
hotels in the United Arab Emirates’ capital, plans to build 272
apartments and 75 villas and townhouses in the emirate’s
capital, all of which have been presold to an unidentified
buyer, Chief Executive Officer  John Bullough  said on April 20.
The following day, the company said it won a 730 million-dirham
order from Abu Dhabi’s government to build infrastructure for a
project in Al Ain city.  
 Sorouh Real Estate Co., Abu Dhabi’s second-biggest property
developer by market value, this week reported a 79 percent
decline in second-quarter profit after land sales evaporated.  
 Aldar shares  rose 0.4 percent to close at 2.46 dirhams in
Abu Dhabi trading today before the earnings were released. The
shares slumped 51 percent  this year , giving the company a market
value of 6.3 billion dirhams.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        