-- American Safety Razor, Lehman, Innkeepers, AbitibiBowater: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-29T13:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/american-safety-razor-lehman-innkeepers-abitibibowater-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             American Safety Razor Co. , the
fourth-largest maker of wet-shaving blades, filed a Chapter 11
petition yesterday where the company will be sold to first-lien
lenders in exchange for debt unless second-lien creditors make
arrangements to pay off the senior creditors within seven weeks.  
 ASR owes $244.4 million on the first-lien revolving credit
and term loan. There is $178.1 million outstanding on the
second-lien credit. In addition, mezzanine lenders are owed $60
million on an obligation that pays in kind.  
 There is a contract with the first-lien lenders where they
will be the so-called stalking-horse at an auction to test
whether there is a better deal than exchanging the senior
secured debt for ownership. The agreement doesn’t give the
senior lenders a breakup fee if someone else wins the auction.  
 The second-lien lenders were proposing an alternative
reorganization where they would pay off the first lien with debt
financing and exchange the junior secured credit for the new
equity. A court filing says that the junior lenders haven’t yet
been able to obtain necessary commitments to pay off the senior
debt.  
 The purchase agreement with the senior lenders gives the
junior creditors seven weeks to raise the financing. ASR said
that the proposal from the junior lenders “may become the basis
of the company’s reorganization.”  
 The reorganization is to be financed with a $25 million
secured loan where the agent for the lenders will be  UBS AG , the
agent for the existing first-lien creditors.  
 Revenue of $351 million in 2008 slipped to $330 million in
2009. Sales will continue to fall, court papers say, because ASR
this year lost its largest customer that was responsible for 15
percent of revenue.  
 Cedar Knolls, New Jersey-based ASR has U.S. plants in
Virginia and Tennessee. Affiliates abroad aren’t in bankruptcy.
It was acquired for $625 million in July 2006 by London-based
Lion Capital LLP.  
 Although ASR has the largest market share for private-label
blades, it has only 8 percent of the market when branded goods
are included, according to Moody’s Investors Service. The
leader, with 66 percent of the market, is  Procter & Gamble Co. ’s
Gillette products.  
 The case is In re American Safety Razor Co., 10-12351, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Updates  
 Rangers Lenders Protest Releases to Hicks in Plan  
 The secured lenders to the  Texas Rangers  baseball club
filed papers yesterday explaining their theories why the
bankruptcy judge shouldn’t approve a reorganization plan and
sell the team to a group including current President  Nolan Ryan 
and sports lawyer  Chuck Greenberg .  
 Owed $525 million not including interest, the lenders
principally contend that bankruptcy judges in Texas are
precluded from giving releases to non-bankrupt third parties
such as affiliates of the Rangers and individuals like the
team’s current owner,  Thomas O. Hicks .  
 The lenders point to a decision last year from the 5th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans which is sometimes
interpreted as barring third-party releases. To read about the
case, known as Pacific Lumber, click here for the Sept. 30
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The lenders also contend that they have rights that are
being impaired by the plan, thus giving them the right to vote.
The team, on the other hand, believes they are unimpaired
because the plan will give them $75 million, the limit of the
team’s monetary liability to the lenders.  
 The lenders argue that a plan must not impair non-monetary
rights as well. They point to how the releases and exculpations
built into the plan infringe on their ability to sue third
parties and therefore give them the right to vote.  
 If they have the right to vote, the lenders point to how
the two classes for their claims are both voting against the
plan. With “no” votes from the only two impaired classes, the
lenders argue that bankruptcy law doesn’t allow confirmation of
the plan. The lenders rely on provisions in bankruptcy law that
require acceptance by at least one voting class before a plan
can be crammed down.  
 The lenders in addition point to how their loan agreement
gave them the right to approve sale. Because the sale contract
was made before bankruptcy, the lenders submit to the judge that
their right to sue for the loan violation can’t be cut off in
bankruptcy if their rights are to be unimpaired.  
 Alex Rodriquez , now third baseman for the New York Yankees,
filed a limited objection to the plan. Rodriguez cites a
provision in the collective bargaining agreement that requires a
club to maintain a fund to “secure deferred compensation,”
such as the almost $25 million he’s still owed by the Rangers.  
 Rodriguez says “no monies are currently being held in
escrow by the debtor for this purpose.” The plan is intended to
have the buyer pay the remainder of Rodriguez’s contract.  
 Bids for the team are due Aug. 3. The auction is set for
Aug. 4 in the courthouse, to be followed immediately by a
hearing either to approve the sale or confirm the Chapter 11
plan.  
 The Rangers filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 with a sale
contract and a plan that claims to be paying all creditors in
full. The original contract price, $304 million, was later
increased to $306.7 million. Secured lenders would recover $256
million, according to the team’s disclosure statement based on
the original contract for $304 million.  
 The Rangers moved from Washington to Texas in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael “Buzz” Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill
Rochelle, is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The
partnership that owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Visteon Wins Lender Support by Raising Interest Rate  
 Auto-parts maker  Visteon Corp.  sweetened the reorganization
plan for the $1.5 billion term loan and in return won agreement
from holders of 55 percent of the credit to vote “yes” and
support confirmation.  
 Visteon agreed to give the lenders interest since
bankruptcy at the default rate and to support reimbursing the
lenders for their professional fees. In return, the lenders will
withdraw objections and the appeal taken from approval of the
so-called plan-support agreement.  
 The lenders who negotiated the plan changes agreed to
recommend that holders of the remainder of the loan also vote
“yes.”  
 The confirmation hearing for approval of Visteon’s
reorganization plan is scheduled to begin Sept. 28 and to
continue for nine additional days if necessary. In addition to
shareholders and some creditors who are opposed, a group of
trade suppliers said they have enough “no” votes to block
approval by the unsecured creditor class.  
 For details on Visteon’s plan, click here for the June 15
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For a summary of the positions by
various parties before the judge approved the disclosure
statement, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co.  Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Station Casinos, Unsecured Creditors Settle on Plan  
 The creditors’ committee reached a settlement with  Station
Casinos Inc.  and as a result turned opposition to the Chapter 11
plan into support. The casino operator filed a revised
reorganization plan and explanatory disclosure statement
yesterday.  
 At a hearing on July 15 when the bankruptcy judge
tentatively approved the disclosure statement, the company’s
lawyer told the judge there were negotiations that could convert
contested confirmation turn into consensual confirmation.  
 The revised plan provides that general unsecured creditors
and holders of $1.28 billion in senior notes now are in line to
receive warrants and investment rights in connection with
implementation of the plan plus the ability to invest again in
the future. Previously, they were to receive nothing.  
 The revised disclosure statement doesn’t make a guess about
a predicted recovery for the noteholders.  
 The holders of $1.56 billion in subordinated notes are also
to receive a share of the same warrants and investment rights,
although how much if anything they actually receive is a
function of the existing subordination agreement and elections
that senior  creditors make in accepting the plan.  
 The confirmation hearing, currently set for Aug. 27, will
be preceded by an auction on Aug. 6 for some although not all of
the casinos. The first bid of $772 million will come from a
group including current owners Frank and Lorenzo Fertitta.  
 The plan incorporates an agreement built around the
auction. For details on the auction, the appeal being taken by
unsecured creditors, and the Station Casinos reorganization
plan, click here for the June 11 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.
Assuming the settlement with unsecured creditors is approved as
part of the plan, the committee will drop the appeal.  
 Station Casinos filed under Chapter 11 in July 2009. It has
13 properties in Las Vegas plus five joint ventures. It also
operates casinos for American Indian tribes. Station’s debt was
the result of a leveraged buyout in November 2007 by Fertitta
Colony Partners LLC.  
 The case is In Re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  
 Lehman Seeking Approval for Innkeepers Plan Support  
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  filed a motion in its own
Chapter 11 case for authorization to carry out a commitment to
reorganize  Innkeepers USA Trust , a real estate investment trust
owned by  Apollo Investment Corp.   
 Worked out before Innkeepers filed under Chapter 11 on July
19, the so-called plan support agreement calls for Lehman
subsidiary Lehman ALI Inc. to exchange its $238 million in
mortgage debt for all the new Innkeepers equity. The Lehman
subsidiary has floating-rate mortgages on 20 of Innkeepers 72
extended-stay and limited-service properties.  
 In the motion that will have an Aug. 18 hearing in the
Lehman bankruptcy court, Lehman also wants permission to sell
half the new stock it receives to Apollo for not less than
$107.5 million. In addition, Lehman needs authorization from the
bankruptcy judge to make a $17.5 million loan to refurbish the
Innkeepers properties on which it has mortgages.  
 Innkeepers owes Lehman an additional $118 million on a
floating-rate mezzanine debt not destined to have a recovery
under the plan.  
 Lehman filed another motion, also to be in court on Aug.
18, to pay fees for its investment banker, Lazard Freres & Co.,
if Innkeepers doesn’t. Under the plan-support agreement,
Innkeepers is supposed to pay Lazard’s fees.  
 Lazard is to receive $150,000 a month plus a restructuring
fee of $1.5 million. Some of the monthly fee will be credited
against the restructuring fee. Innkeepers disclosed at the
outset of its Chapter 11 case that it would be paying $460,000 a
month to reimburse Lehman for its professional fees.  
 The remainder of Innkeepers’ plan would have secured
creditors, owed $825 million, to receive $550 million in fixed-
rate mortgages on the 45 properties that are their collateral.
There are another $206 million in mortgages on seven properties
that would be reduced by the plan to $150 million.  
 Innkeepers’ general unsecured creditors are to receive
$500,000 cash.  
 The plan where Lehman would take the new equity is opposed
by the holders of the $825 million debt.  
 In total, Palm Beach, Florida-based Innkeepers has 72
hotels with 10,000 rooms in 20 states. Apollo acquired the
company in July 2007 in a $1.35 billion transaction. The
Innkeepers petition listed assets of $1.5 billion against debt
totaling $1.52 billion.  
 Midland Loan Services Inc. is the servicer for the $825
million in mortgage debt.  
 The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Third-Party Releases Becoming Limited in New York Cases  
 A small case is about to make big law limiting the
circumstances when bankrupt companies can preclude creditors and
shareholders from suing officers and directors in a Chapter 11
reorganization in New York.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Martin Glenn  at a hearing in June
refused to approve the disclosure statement for  American
Mortgage Acceptance Co.  because the proposed reorganization plan
would have given a blanket release to officers and directors
prohibiting suits by shareholders and creditors.  
 Glenn had two problems with releasing officers and
directors. He cited a 2005 decision from the 2nd U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals in Manhattan named Metromedia Fiber Network
Inc. which says that so-called third-party releases are proper
only in “truly unusual circumstances.”  
 Before even reaching the question of whether there are the
necessary “unusual circumstances,” Glenn said that the
reorganizing company first must establish that the bankruptcy
court has jurisdiction or power to prevent suits against third
parties.  
 On the question of jurisdiction or power, Glenn referred to
opinions from the 2nd Circuit in the long-completed
reorganization of  John Manville Corp . where the appeals court
explained when a bankruptcy court lacks jurisdiction to give
releases to third parties. To read about the Manville opinion,
click here for the March 23 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 In the American Mortgage case, Glenn told the lawyer for
the company, “Don’t assume that the bankruptcy court will
approve a third-party nondebtor release and injunction, even if
it is unopposed.”  
 At the hearing on June 23, Glenn also put the brakes on
efforts by a reorganizing company to indemnify officers,
directors and employees. Before the bankrupt business can pick
up defense costs and pay judgments against officers and
directors, Peck said there must be an underlying insurance
policy that’s property belonging to the company. Or, there must
somehow be property of the Chapter 11 company at risk.  
 On the related question of giving indemnification to
creditors who participated in the plan-crafting process, Glenn
told American Mortgage’s lawyer, “You’re going to have to
persuade me that exculpation can extend to creditors, even if
they participated in the plan process.”  
 Glenn didn’t slam the door entirely because he noted how
other bankruptcy judges in New York allow preventing lawsuits
against participants in the plan process so long as there was no
gross negligence or willful misconduct.  
 Glenn gave American Mortgage a chance to revise the plan
and disclosure statement to limit third-party release in line
with his reading of the law.  
 Glenn cited two other bankruptcy judges in New York,  Stuart M. Bernstein  and  Allan Gropper , who are also developing policies
limiting release for third parties.  
 If the judges in New York become stingy with releases for
directors, officers and third parties, Delaware could become a
more favorable forum unless the judges in Wilmington develop
similar policies.  
 American Mortgage was a real estate investment trust that
had $666 million of assets in 2007. It now has two creditors. To
read about the plan, click here for the May 14 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 The case is In re American Mortgage Acceptance Co., 10-
12196, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York
(Manhattan).  
 Body Armor Maker Point Blank Has Shareholders’ Panel  
 Point Blank Solutions Inc. , a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, has an official
shareholders’ committee with seven members.  
 The committee appointed on July 27 includes Privet Fund
Management LLC, Prescott Group Capital Management, Bahrat
Capital LLC, and Tiburon Capital Management LLC.  
 Bankruptcy law allows the U.S. Trustee to form additional
official committees, such as an equity committee, if she
believes one is proper under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.
Ordinarily, additional committees are formed when the Trustee
declines to appoint one and the spurned shareholders prevail on
the bankruptcy judge to overrule the Trustee’s judgment.  
 Point Blank is working under a loan agreement that requires
selling the business. Assuming the judge adopts the proposed
schedule at an Aug. 3 hearing, there must be a letter of intent
by Sept. 15 and a motion by Sept. 30 to approve an asset-
purchase agreement. Alternatively, Point Bank could file a
Chapter 11 plan and disclosure statement by Sept. 30.  
 At the Aug. 3 hearing the creditors’ committee will be
arguing in favor of the appointment of a Chapter 11 trustee. The
company characterized the committee’s motion as based on
“reckless accusations with no factual basis whatsoever.”  
 Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 was more than $153 million. The petition listed assets of
$64 million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan to be paid off by financing for the
Chapter 11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to
trade suppliers. Three former officers were indicted on charges
of securities fraud.  
 The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  
 Gems TV Has Plan with Near Full Payment to Creditors  
 Gems TV (USA) Ltd. , once a television retailer of gemstone
jewelry products, filed a liquidating Chapter 11 plan along with
a disclosure statement telling unsecured creditors with $28
million in claims that they can expect a recovery between 95
percent and 100 percent. The hearing for approval of the
disclosure statement is set for Aug. 31.  
 Holders of subordinated notes with claims of $93 million
are in line for a 2.1 percent recovery, the disclosure statement
says.  
 The plan and almost full payment to some creditors results
from a settlement where DirecTV Inc. will waive its claims.  
 The company expects to have $25.85 million cash on hand in
October and eventually generate $31.5 million. There should be
$28.05 million available for distribution to unsecured
creditors, with $1.97 million remaining for subordinated claims,
the disclosure statement says.  
 There are no remaining secured claims.  
 Reno, Nevada-based Gems TV shut down the business before
filing under Chapter 11 on April 5. The petition said assets are
less than $50 million while debt is expected to exceed $100
million.  
 The case is In re Gems TV (USA) Ltd., 10-11158, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Abitibi Refines Disclosure for Approval Hearing Today  
 AbitibiBowater Inc. , the largest newsprint maker in North
America, prepared for today’s renewed hearing by fine-tuning the
reorganization plan and the explanatory disclosure statement.
The changes in part refine the $500 million backstopped rights
offering.  
 The disclosure statement, up for approval at today’s
hearing, tells creditors of each of the more than 40 affiliated
companies how much they stand to recover.  
 While secured claims are paid in full, unsecured creditors
of AbitibiBowater Inc. are expected to recover 0.8 percent on
their $746 million in claims. The recovery by unsecured
creditors of Abitibi subsidiaries will range from 100 percent
for Augusta Woodlands LLC to nothing at Abitibi-Consolidated
Alabama Corp., where $649 million is owing.  
 Among the larger Abitibi subsidiaries, the recovery ranges
from 0.4 percent to 37.4 percent. The predicted recovery on $656
million in claims against Abitibi-Consolidated Corp. is 12
percent.  
 For subsidiaries of Bowater, some are to see no recovery
for their creditors. Among the Bowater subsidiaries with larger
creditor bodies, the predicted recovery ranges from 0.9 percent
to 36.5 percent. Creditors with claims of $2.75 billion against
Bowater Inc. are expected to take home 48.4 percent, the revised
disclosure statement says.  
 The plan prohibits creditors with claims against several
affiliates from receiving more than full payment.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint along with papers, bleached kraft pulp and
lumber.  
 The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24 pulp
and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in 2008 was
$6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April 2009, the
combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of $9.9 billion
and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of September 2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Trade Secret Creditors Oppose Quick Sale to Regis  
 The creditors’ committee of  Trade Secret Inc.  is opposing
the sale of the 612-store beauty-supply retailer to the former
owner,  Regis Corp. , and an affiliate of the Luborsky family that
purchased the business in January 2009.  
 If the sale goes ahead as the company plans, the committee
says the possibility of a recovery by unsecured creditors would
be a “virtual nullity.” At a hearing today, the committee will
oppose Trade Secret’s proposed auction and sale procedures.  
 Because there was no marketing of the business before the
Chapter 11 filing July 6, the committee contends that a sale in
less than two months will insure there is no other buyer.  
 At another hearing Aug. 5, the committee will oppose the
terms on which Trade Secret intends on using cash that’s
collateral for the $32 million owing to Regis. Allowing use of
cash for only 75 days, in the judgment of the committee, will
make the sale to Regis and the Luborsky family a “fait
accompli.”  
 The committee doesn’t want Regis to be allowed to bid for
the assets with its secured debt until there has been an
investigation into the sale of the business in January 2009.  
 Edina, Minnesota-based Regis is offering to pay $45 million
for the business. The price would be composed of a $32 million
credit using secured debt and the assumption of $13 million in
debt.  
 Markham, Canada-based Trade Secret wants the bankruptcy
judge to require other bids by Aug. 20 and an auction on Aug.
25, followed the next day by a hearing to approve the sale.  
 Trade Secret also operates under the names Beauty Express,
BeautyFirst and Pure Beauty. The stores are mostly in shopping
malls. Revenue for the fiscal year ended in January was $220
million.  
 The Luborsky family also owns  Premier Salons Inc.  Neither
Premier nor any of its 340 stores are in bankruptcy.  
 The case is In re Trade Secret Inc., 10-12153, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Medical Staffing Auction Set for August 19  
 Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc. , a Boca Raton,
Florida-based provider of temporary nursing services, will hold
an auction on Aug. 19 to learn whether anyone aside from the
secured lenders is interested in buying the business.  
 Under procedures the court approved last week, other bids
are due Aug. 17. The hearing for approval of the sale will take
place Aug. 20.  
 The company filed under Chapter 11 on July 2 after already
nailing down agreement for sale of the business to first-lien
lenders in exchange for $84.12 million of the $98.2 million
they’re owed. The lenders didn’t request a breakup fee if
they’re outbid at auction.  
 Holders of 90 percent of the $26.8 million in second-lien
debt consented to the sale, the company said in court papers.
The buyers are providing the $15 million in financing for the
Chapter 11 case.  General Electric Capital Corp.  is the agent for
the senior lenders. NexBank SSB is agent for the junior secured
lenders.  
 Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII LP owns 45 percent of
the equity of Medical Staffing, which was created through 30
acquisitions since founding in 2008.  
 The petition listed assets of $87.8 million against debt
totaling $140.9 million. Revenue of $341 million in 2009
resulted in an operating loss of $34.3 million. Revenue of $72
million in the first quarter of 2010 threw off a $1.3 million
operating loss. Projected revenue for 2010 is $302 million.  
 The case is In re Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc.,
10-29101, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District Florida (West
Palm Beach).  
 Homebuilder Gemcraft Has Aug. 5 Disclosure Hearing  
 Gemcraft Homes Inc. , a homebuilder based in Forest Hill,
Maryland, scheduled an Aug. 5 hearing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Baltimore for approval of a disclosure statement explicating
the Chapter 11 plan.  
 On filing under Chapter 11 in November, Gemcraft owed $131
million to secured lenders. For lenders who haven’t worked out
agreements with Gemcraft, they will be given their collateral.  
 Unsecured creditors are being offered 10 percent in cash up
to a maximum aggregate distribution of $350,000. Other unsecured
creditors are relegated to recoveries from a litigation trust
that’s not expected to bring in more than $500,000.  
 Mechanic’s lien holders will be treated as unsecured
creditors unless the bankruptcy court rules that a mechanic’s
lien comes ahead of a lender’s mortgage.  
 Closely held Gemcraft sold 770 homes in 2006. Revenue
shrank to $83 million in 2009.  
 The case is In re Gemcraft Homes Inc., 09-31696, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore).  
 Statistics  
 Chapter 11 Recoveries Near Record Low, Moody’s Says  
 Recoveries by creditors of companies in Chapter 11 during
the current recession “have been at record lows,” according to
a July 21 report by Moody’s Investors Service.  
 In contrast, recoveries by creditors in 14 so-called
distressed exchanges were 70.9 percent since the recession
began, Moody’s said. A distressed exchange occurs when all or
some creditors take less than full payment out-of-court to avoid
a Chapter 11 filing.  
 For the 43 companies that emerged from Chapter 11
reorganizations, the recovery was 45.6 percent for companies
with so-called prepacks and 41.2 percent in freefall cases. A
prepackaged Chapter 11 is one where the plan is negotiated
before the company goes to bankruptcy court. A freefall case
occurs when there isn’t agreement on a plan before the Chapter
11 filing.  
 When the distressed exchanges are combined with the
prepacks and freefall reorganizations, the overall recovery rate
since the recession has been 50.9 percent, compared with 54.7
percent overall since 1988, Moody’s said.  
 Moody’s commented that the distressed exchanges “did not
materially increase overall credit quality for these
companies.” Moody’s believes that in some cases the distressed
exchanges will only serve to postpone bankruptcy.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Bankrupt Brunell Signs with New York Jets for Two Years  
 Mark Brunell , who had been the backup quarterback for this
year’s Super Bowl-winning New Orleans Saints, signed a two-year
contract with the New York Jets. Brunell filed for Chapter 11
reorganization on June 25 in Jacksonville, Florida, near his
$3.1 million home in Ponte Vedra Beach. Brunell had been a free
agent.  
 Before the Saints, Brunell played for the Washington
Redskins, Jacksonville Jaguars and Green Bay Packers. He was
named to the Pro Bowl in 1998 and 2002. He listed assets of
$5.52 million and debt totaling $24.73 million.  
 The case is Mark A. Brunell, 10-05550, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Middle District Florida (Jacksonville).  
 Downgrade  
 National Mentor Downgraded to B- on ‘Cloudy’ Rates  
 National Mentor Inc. and its parent, NMH Holdings Inc.,
were demoted yesterday from a B to a B- corporate rating by
Standard & Poor’s.  
 The Boston-based provider of home and community-based
psychological, neurological and psychiatric services has a $98
million maturity in 2012 at the holding company. S&P also said
the reimbursement picture is “cloudy.”  
 The pay-in-kind notes at the holding company were demoted
one grade to CCC.  
 National Mentor is controlled by New York-based Vestar
Capital Partners.  
 Daily Podcast  
 Chrysler Creditors’ Suit, Tribune Bonds, A&P, WaMu: Audio  
 The possibility that unsecured creditors of old Chrysler
will receive nothing after losing a lawsuit to  Daimler AG ;
trading in  Tribune Co.  bonds following the examiner’s report;
financial obstacles facing  Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. ; and
 Joshua Hochberg , the new examiner for  Washington Mutual Inc. ,
are covered in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg
terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 Advance Sheets  
 Recording Tax Deed is Date of Transfer, 7th Circuit Holds  
 The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago ruled in
favor of individual bankrupts in the course deciding a case the
panel characterized as a “fascinating intersection” between
federal bankruptcy law and Illinois state tax law. The case
involved how long someone can wait before filing bankruptcy to
preserve the ability to unwind the sale of a tax deed.  
 The case involved state law where a county conducts a so-
called tax sale when real estate taxes are unpaid. After the tax
sale, the purchaser must wait two years before applying for a
deed to the property. In the meantime, the owner has the right
to redeem the property by paying the tax, plus interest and
penalties.  
 After two years, the purchaser applies for a tax deed which
is typically issued some months later. The individuals filed
Chapter 13 bankruptcy more than two years after the tax sale
although less than two years before the tax deed was recorded.  
 The homeowners filed a lawsuit in bankruptcy court to void
the tax deed as a fraudulent transfer. The bankruptcy court,
affirmed by the district court, dismissed the suit, saying the
two-year lookback period in bankruptcy law began to run from the
tax sale, not the recording of the deed.  
 The 7th Circuit, in an opinion by Judge  John D. Tinder ,
reversed the lower courts, concluding that the transfer didn’t
occur for bankruptcy purposes until the tax deed was recorded.
He therefore reinstated the complaint to void the tax deed as a
fraudulent transfer.  
 The case is Smith v. SIPI LLC (In re Smith), 08-2880, 7th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        