-- American Apparel Plunges After Deloitte Resigns as Retailer's Accountant
-- Allison Abell Schwartz
-- 2010-07-29T14:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/american-apparel-plunges-after-deloitte-resigns-as-retailer-s-accountant.html

          
          
             American Apparel Inc. , the Los
Angeles-based retailer with more than 280 clothing stores, fell
as much as 25 percent in New York trading after saying Deloitte
& Touche LLP resigned as its accountant.  
 Deloitte has notified American Apparel that its financial
statements for 2009 may not be reliable, the retailer said in a
regulatory filing yesterday. American Apparel and Deloitte had
no disagreements, according to the filing.  
 American Apparel, led by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Dov Charney , appointed Deloitte as its auditor in April
2009. The retailer has reported two consecutive years of
declining  profit  and repeatedly missed deadlines to file results
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 “The company has struggled since its IPO with both its
internal controls and its ability to file SEC filings on a
timely basis,”  Ed Yruma , an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets
Inc. in New York, said in a note to clients. He cited seven late
filings since 2008. “An ability to file SEC filings on a timely
basis has been an ongoing issue.”  
 American Apparel dropped 34 cents, or 19 percent, to $1.47
at 10:16 a.m. on the NYSE Amex after falling as low as $1.35.
The  shares  had lost 42 percent this year before today.  
 Yruma downgraded the stock to “not rated” from “buy”
and said a resolution to the company’s reporting issues may take
time.  
 “Given the high degree of uncertainty we are unable to
provide an investment opinion and step to the sidelines,” Yruma
said.  
 American Apparel reported preliminary first-quarter results
for the three months ended March 31 and said it would file a
formal report after reviewing certain items. The retailer risks
being delisted from the NYSE Amex if it does not file its Form
10-Q by Aug. 16.  
 The retailer’s audit committee hired Marcum LLP to go
through the company’s financial statements. Marcum, formerly
known as Marcum & Kliegman LLP, served as American Apparel’s
accounting firm before Deloitte took over last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Abell Schwartz  in New York at 
 aabell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        