-- Americans Buy IPads While Broke in New Abnormal Economy
-- Devin Leonard
-- 2010-07-29T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/americans-splurge-on-ipads-while-broke-in-new-abnormal-economy.html

          
          
             In March, Ralph Ronzio went to a
warehouse in a seedy part of Orange County, California, and
watched a man auction off his condo for half what he’d paid for
it. Ronzio had bought the place for $329,000 in 2005, when he
moved to Southern California from Rhode Island to take a job at
a data-storage company. It was the first place he’d ever owned.  
 “It was totally my bachelor pad,” he says. “Not much
inside other than the usual leather couch and the big screen TV.
My fiancée made me sell the couch.”  
 That wasn’t the only thing that changed when Ronzio got
engaged. His fiancée had two young children, and there wasn’t
enough room in the condo for all four of them. So last year,
Ronzio bought a house nine miles (14 kilometers) away and they
all moved in. He figured he could rent the condo and cover his
costs. He figured wrong, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Aug. 2 issue.  
 The more he thought about the money he was losing, the more
it stressed him out. Finally, Ronzio enlisted the help of a firm
called You Walk Away and did exactly that from the remaining
$319,000 on his condo mortgage. When the bank  foreclosed , he
says he felt a sense of relief. He also had more cash. He and
his fiancée took the kids to Disneyland. Ronzio, 31, gave
himself a treat as well.  
 “I bought myself an iPad,” he says.  
 Latest Apple Gadget  
 It used to be that someone like Ronzio could be fairly
certain of the outcome when spending a few hundred thousand
dollars on real estate. Housing prices were headed in only one
direction. You could surf the boom and borrow against your home
equity to pay for all manner of splurges -- a vacation, a flat-
screen television, or the latest  Apple Inc.  gadget. Considering
that housing prices almost doubled from 1999 to 2006, there was
always an escape hatch: Sell your house and make enough money to
pay it all back.  
 That was the old normal. Last year,  Mohamed El-Erian , chief
executive officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., manager
of the world’s biggest bond fund, declared a “new normal,” a
global realignment in which the U.S. consumer, no longer a
hungry monster, became cautious and subdued.  
 The current circumstances might be better described as the
new abnormal, in which no one knows anything. In June, the
 Conference Board Consumer Confidence Index  fell 9 points after
an 11 percent drop in the  S&P 500  the month before. New  housing
starts  were at an eight-month low. Meanwhile, the unemployment
rate still hovers near double digits. That’s 14.6 million
Americans out of work. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
added to the anxiety with a July 21 declaration that the
economic outlook is “unusually uncertain.”  
 ‘Liquidity-Constrained’  
 So who are all those people at the mall? It’s easy to
forget that a 9.5 percent  unemployment rate  means that about 9
out of 10 Americans in the workforce are still employed.  
 “Some consumers are probably liquidity-constrained,” says
 Kenneth Rogoff , Harvard University professor and former chief
economist at the International Monetary Fund. These are “the
ones who are probably not the ones buying iPads. But 90 percent
of Americans do have a job, and maybe 70 percent are confident
about them. And maybe half of those have liquidity.”  
 On a recent afternoon, Lucy Johnston, 37, an accountant
from Tulsa, Oklahoma, could be found at the Fashion Show mall on
the Strip in Las Vegas. She’s cutting back on shopping and
eating out because of the recession.  
 “It’s really tough right now,” Johnston says. “I don’t
do many full-on spa days anymore.”  
 Yet there she was, shopping and vacationing in Vegas with
her husband.  
 “We’ve pulled out all the stops. We’re staying at the
Bellagio,” she says.  
 Schizophrenic Consumers  
 The new abnormal has given rise to a nation of
schizophrenic consumers. They splurge on  high-end discretionary
items  and cut back on brand-name toothpaste and shampoo.
Companies such as Cupertino, California-based  Apple , whose  net
income  jumped 94 percent in its last quarter, and  Starbucks
Corp. , which saw a 61 percent increase in operating income over
the same time frame, are thriving.  
 Mercedes-Benz is having a record sales year; deliveries of
new vehicles in the U.S. rose 25 percent in the first six months
of 2010. Lexus and BMW were also up. Though luxury-goods
manufacturers such as  Hermes International SCA  and  Burberry
Group Plc  are looking primarily to Asia for growth, their recent
earnings reports suggest stabilization and even modest
improvement in the U.S.  
 Bifurcated Market  
 “Last September, retail started to recover on a very
narrow basis,” says  Michael Niemira , chief economist for the
International Council of Shopping Centers. “Most of the
industry was really weak. It wasn’t until the end of the year
that you saw any momentum. It was all dollar stores and luxury.
You have this bifurcated market. This year, it started to move
to the middle a little. Now it’s kind of moved back to the
edges.”  
 Some of this is a reminder that the rich have been largely
shielded from the recession’s ravages.  
 “All of my customers think we are out of the recession,”
says Marika Baca, an associate in the women’s department at the
Barneys New York store. “This time last year, it was bad. But
now the women who were reluctantly picking up one piece are
easily buying three.”  
 Aspirational middle-class consumers say they are also
yearning to get their hands on the same high-end merchandise,
just as they did in better times.  
 Family Dollar Stores  
 In such an environment, optimism about the economic future
ebbs and flows constantly, with far-reaching consequences for a
nation in which consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of the
gross national product. It’s an economy that suggests an EKG-
shaped recovery -- a sequence of mini booms and busts as
consumer fads and pent-up demand drive sales, until the impulses
fade. Erratic behavior is everywhere, even at Matthews, North
Carolina-based  Family Dollar Stores Inc.   
 “My feeling is that you can see week-to-week differences
today that are far more volatile than what we have been
seeing,” says R.  James Kelly , the company’s president and chief
operating officer, reporting a  quarter  with a 19 percent
increase in net income.  
 Consumer confidence  was edging up earlier this year. The
stock market had rebounded. It looked like the economy took on
aspects of normal behavior -- and then it all fell apart. In
June, the stock market gave back 4 percent of its value. Like
teenagers suffering mood swings, consumers lost their nerve all
over again.  
 ‘Dark Cloud’  
 On July 27, the  Conference Board  reported that confidence
was at a five-month low, which it blamed on job insecurity.  
 “Concerns about the labor market are casting a dark cloud
over consumers that is not likely to lift until the job market
improves,”  Lynn Franco , director of the board’s consumer
research center, says in a statement.  
 Not everybody’s consumer diagnosis is the same, though.
Shortly before the Conference Board released its finding,
Consumer Reports, the 74-year-old magazine, unveiled the results
of its monthly telephone survey about economic issues. It found
that consumers had ramped up their retail spending by an average
of $40. Though major purchases like cars remained unlikely,
Americans were planning to spend more on appliances and
electronics.  
 “We just focus on what’s happening this month,” says Ed
Farrell, a director of the Consumer Reports National Research
Center. “We don’t ask people what they think the business
climate is going to be like in a year. If these people could
tell us that, we’d all be very well off.”  
 Consumer Survey  
 American Express Co.  released the results of its consumer
survey on July 13, showing more willingness to spend, damped
somewhat by guilt and despair on the part of some of these same
respondents. The New York-based credit-card company found that
51 percent of consumers had fallen behind on their annual
savings plan, in part because they were either making impulse
purchases or simply spending beyond their means. There it is:
gloom, muted optimism, and wild abandon.  
 What if these things aren’t exclusive in the new abnormal?
Frank Veneroso, an investment strategy adviser in Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, follows the nation’s saving rate. It was his
opinion that high debt levels and economic fears would force
Americans to rein in their spending and increase their savings.  
 ‘Celebratory Spending Spree’  
 In the early part of the recession, that’s what happened.
Then it stopped happening. Veneroso writes in a report that the
nation’s wealthier citizens were so relieved when the stock
market rallied last year after the financial crisis that they
went on a “celebratory spending spree.” The recent market
turmoil will put a stop to it and savings will start to inch
back up, Veneroso says.  
 Except market rallies aren’t the only thing that emboldens
consumers. Market dips can also loosen up purse strings, says
 Dan Ariely , a professor of behavioral economics at Duke
University and author of “Predictably Irrational: The Hidden
Forces that Shape Our Decisions.” When people fret about market
gyrations, they see the advantage of shopping over putting money
into a mutual fund that might tank, Ariely says.  
 “If they lose money by spending it on something, at least
they have something to show for it,” he says.  
 For consumers looking for a reason, ups and downs can both
provide a justification for spending. Stephanie Redmond, a 25-
year-old electronics worker, talked about her financial woes as
she shopped at the Dolphin Mall in Miami. She described herself
as pessimistic about the economy.  
 Need New Car  
 “I don’t see it getting any better,” she said. “I need a
new car, but I don’t plan on getting one anytime soon.”  
 Instead she recently bought a plane ticket to New York and
stayed in a Times Square hotel.  
 “It was my first time, so it was a lot of fun,” she said.  
 At the Woodfield Shopping Center in Schaumburg, Illinois,
Michelle Rodriguez, 39, a part-time cafeteria worker at a local
high school, said she cut back considerably after losing her old
full-time job two years ago as a receptionist at  Kraft Foods
Inc.   
 “I think the economy has a ways to go,” she said. “I
don’t make nearly as much as I used to make.”  
 Yet she said she bought a 46-inch flat-screen Sony TV in
the last year. And now she was waiting for help in the Genius
Bar line at the Apple Store.  
 Apple Revenue  
 One way of understanding Apple’s recent success -- the
company announced “all-time record”  revenue  of $15.7 billion
for its quarter ending on June 26 -- is that the iPad is
positioned as a compromise product for people who crave the kick
of a new Apple gadget and don’t want to spring for a Mac.  
 “I was talking to someone recently who said to me, ‘I
bought the iPad because I can’t afford a new iMac,’” says Carla
Serrano, chief strategist for TBWA/Chiat/Day, Apple’s
advertising agency. “O.K., fine. But the iPad does hardly
anything that an iMac can do.”  
 The recession is making people think they need to come up
with that she describes as “post-rational” justifications for
their extravagant purchases, she says.  
 The performance of Seattle-based  Starbucks  suggests that
everyday luxuries have also not been wiped out. On July 21, the
coffee chain announced a “record” quarter with same-store
sales growth of 9 percent, the biggest increase since the second
quarter of 2006, the peak of the old normal.  
 CEO  Howard Schultz  highlighted Starbucks’ new products,
like the “customizable Frappuccino campaign,” as well as Via,
the new instant coffee, which is pitched as a budget item,
though not exactly priced like one when compared with other
instant competitors. A 12-packet box of Via goes for $9.95.  
 ‘Every day!’  
 Starbucks is the lower-end corollary to Apple, a purveyor
of expensive treats. Stephanie Redmond, the Miami electronics
worker, may not buy the new car she needs, but give up
Starbucks? Never. She says she has to have it “every day!”  
 Mass marketers have a tougher time seducing consumers with
psychological value.  Burt Flickinger , a retail consultant based
in New York, says  Procter & Gamble Co.  is struggling to keep
people from abandoning its Ivory soap and Crest toothpaste for
generic brands. According to Flickinger, better-educated
shoppers understand how little difference there is in quality on
many household items.  
 They may also be sneaking into discount retailers for these
deals.  
 Cheap Towels  
 “The dollar store is the new Target,” says  Al Moffatt ,
CEO of Worldwide Partners, a Denver-based advertising company.
“You go in there to buy shampoo for a buck so you can go to
Starbucks and justify spending $3 for a coffee.”  
 Moffatt says that he and his wife recently did their own
variation on this recessionary theme. On a trip to Oregon, they
bought cheap towels at a discount store before hitting a pricey
spa.  
 Ran Kivetz, a professor of marketing at Columbia Business
School, has done research on consumer psychology. He says that
consumers’ brains lack a line that separates spending from
saving. We practice a certain amount of thrift so that we can
justify blowing a large sum frivolously, he says.  
 Kivetz says the recent recession has made consumer thinking
even more conflicted. In the short run, we feel good when we
save. In the long run, we tend to regret the denial of a
spending outlet.  
 “We feel guilty” about spending, Kivetz says, which can
lead to more irrational purchasing.  
 Need to Spend  
 That’s is exactly what’s happening now, according to
Kivetz. Consumers were quick to reduce spending when the
recession arrived. Then the recession lasted longer than
expected, and the new abnormal set in. The economy started to
improve. Then it appeared to worsen. There is only so long we
can suppress our need to spend, Kivetz says.  
 “It’s just been a slow walk out of the woods,” he says.
“And it’s so complicated. The things going on in Europe are
frightening. There are problems with China, with our government
debt, and bank debt. At the end of the day, people are saying,
‘There is still risk. I gotta cut back.’ But this is not a
typical one-year recession. Life has to have some normalcy. I
have to have some luxuries.”  
 There was little evidence of the recession at a recent
lunchtime in the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota. The
nation’s largest mall was full of shoppers drinking expensive
coffee and toting bags of electronics and expensive shoes. Some
of them were there on vacation. Why not? The Mall of America
doesn’t just have 520-plus shops, it has an enormous amusement
park and a 1.2 million gallon aquarium. Sales are up 9 percent
so far this year.  
 Mellissa Williams, a 30-year-old teacher from Laredo,
Missouri, was looking for sneakers with her two children at a
sporting goods store.  
 “We’ll be looking at price tags a little more than we
normally would,” she said.  
 And yet she had come a long way to look for deals. What was
her biggest splurge in the last six months?  
 “Probably this trip,” Williams said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Devin Leonard  in New York at 
 dleonard12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Not everybody's consumer diagnosis is the same  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An Apple Inc. iPad tablet computer is held by an Apple employee. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An Apple Inc. iPad tablet computer is held by an Apple employee. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bob Rice, managing partner for Tangent Capital, talks about Amazon.com Inc.'s business strategy and the outlook for the tablet-computer market.
     Rice speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- David Semmens, economist at Standard Chartered Bank, and Jeanne Branthover, managing director at Boyden Global Executive Search, talk about the outlook for the U.S. and New York labor markets. 
     They talk with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  The New Abnormal of U.S. Consumers: Businessweek Radio 
     
 


 
     
         Audio Download:  The New Abnormal of U.S. Consumers: Businessweek Radio 
     
 


                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, speaks during a meeting in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
