-- Hamptons Ball Draws Four-Legged Pals to Aid Animal Rescue Fund
-- Alix Greenwald
-- 2010-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/hamptons-ball-draws-four-legged-pals-to-aid-animal-rescue-fund.html

          
          
             Hotelier Ira Drukier’s wife, Gale,
said she supports the mission of the  Animal Rescue Fund of the
Hamptons  in memory of her cat, Fudgie.  
 “I had this animal for 20 years,” said Gale Drukier, who
is on ARF’s board. “I think the mission is spectacular. I
support the mission in her honor.”  
 The Drukiers will join Duquesne Capital Management’s
chairman,  Stanley Druckenmiller ,  Muriel Siebert , the first woman
to own a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, and NBC anchor
 Chuck Scarborough  at the 12th Annual Beach Ball Saturday night
to raise money for the Animal Rescue Fund.  
 Adoptable four-legged guests will work the crowd during the
festivities at the  Bridgehampton Tennis & Surf Club : cocktails,
dinner, dancing, a silent auction and a beach bonfire.  
 The Drukiers are co-chairmen of the fundraiser, which took
in $245,000 last year, according to ARF’S marketing and
communications director, Jamie Berger. The couple got involved
after they were asked to include their property in Southampton
as part of the Animal Rescue Fund’s annual garden tour.  
 The animals “appreciate that they’ve been given a chance
and they know their lives have been rescued,” Gale Drukier said
in a phone interview. “They know they will have a forever home.
When you give this kind of kindness, it’s warmth that extends to
the animal and the family that adopts this animal.”  
 Less-fortunate creatures will be on the menu. After
cocktails and a raw bar by the Seafood Shop starting at 6:30,
the dinner prepared by  Robbins Wolfe Eventeurs  will include
fried free-range chicken, chili charred beef and swordfish
kebabs with fusilli in a parsley pesto. Postprandial dancing
will be abetted by DJ Ness.  
 ‘Broad Support’  
 “Hopefully it will be a beautiful summer night and we’ll
be able to raise a lot of money. We have great broad support in
the community,” said ARF Executive Director Sara Davison. The
group hopes to surpass last year’s total.  
 The silent auction will include baseballs signed by  Derek Jeter  and  Alex Rodriguez  of the New York Yankees; tickets to a
football game between the New York Giants and the Dallas Cowboys
with VIP access; a Caribbean getaway to the Cap Juluca luxury
resort in Anguilla; and a round of golf for four at the
Bridgehampton club.  
 Every year, the Animal Rescue Fund’s adoption center finds
homes for between 700 and 800 abandoned, homeless or abused
animals, said Davison, who noted an increase in the number of
homeless pets in the past two years due to the economic crisis.  
 Puppy Mills  
 Many ARF dogs come from its Puppy Mill Rescue Program,
formed in conjunction with Best Friends Animal Society, which
runs one of the nation’s largest no-kill animal sanctuaries in
Utah. The program rescues castoff breeder dogs from puppy mills
in the Midwest, where they would otherwise be killed.  
 “A lot of the puppy-mill rescue dogs we get are in very
poor shape,” said Davison. “They receive no veterinary care.
While they’re in the puppy mill they spend their lives in a
squalid cage, so there’s a lot of rehabilitating.”  
 When Izzy, a 10-year-old Shih Tzu, arrived at ARF from a
Midwest puppy mill, she needed immediate medical attention for
an infected leg caused by poor living conditions and lack of
care. A  Brussels Griffon named Fallon was rescued after her
ears were mauled by a breeder trying to crop them.  
 Unless they find homes before Saturday, Izzy and Fallon
will be two of the adoptable dogs schmoozing during cocktail
hour.  
 The Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons Beach Ball
fundraiser is Saturday, July 31, at the Bridgehampton Tennis &
Surf Club at 231 Mid Ocean Drive. Tickets are $200 for guests
under 35, $500 and up for others. For tickets and information:
+1-631-537-0400 x201. Go to  http://www.arfhamptons.org  for more
dogs and cats.  
 ( Alix Greenwald  is an intern at Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alix Greenwald in New York at 
 agreenwald5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Two pups at last year's Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons Beach Ball benefit in Bridgehampton, New York. This year's fundraiser will take place on Saturday, July 31 at 6:30 at the Bridgehampton Tennis & Surf Club. Source: Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Fallon, a year-and-half-old Brussels Griffon. She was rescued by the Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons from a Midwest puppy mill after her ears were botched by a breeder trying to crop them. Source: Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Izzy, a ten-year-old Shih Tzu. Unless she is adopted before Saturday, Izzy will be among the available dogs at the Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons Beach Ball benefit this weekend. Source: Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Guests gather around the beach bonfire at last year's Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons Beach Ball benefit at the Bridgehampton Tennis & Surf Club in Bridgehampton, New York. This year's fundraiser will take place on Saturday, July 31 at 6:30. Source: Animal Rescue Fund of the Hamptons via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
