-- AMR Agrees to Give Evidence Against Other Carriers, Including About Canada
-- Carla Main
-- 2010-07-29T12:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/amr-agrees-to-give-evidence-against-other-carriers-including-about-canada.html

          
          
             AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines agreed
to give evidence against other carriers and pay $5 million to a
group of freight shippers to settle a New York class-action
lawsuit over its role in a global price-fixing cartel.  
 Under the deal, American will provide witnesses, documents
and electronic data to help shippers in similar cases in Canada,
Australia, South Korea and other countries, the group’s lawyer,
Michael Hausfeld of  Hausfeld & Co. LLP , said in a statement in
London yesterday. The agreement, filed July 26 in federal court
in Brooklyn, New York, is the first by an airline to help
prosecute the cartel claims outside the U.S., he said.  
 The industry’s freight services have been probed by the
U.S. and the European Union since 2006, leading to settlements,
fines and plea deals by airlines and executives.  
 The case is In re Air Cargo Shipping Services Antitrust
Litigation, 1:06-md-01775, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of New York (Brooklyn).  
 For more, click here.  
 Compliance Policy  
 ECB Says New Premiums Won’t Unduly Limit Banks’ Collateral  
 The European Central Bank said a new range of premiums on
the assets it accepts against loans won’t unduly limit the
collateral banks can pledge.  
 The ECB yesterday published a new set of so-called
“haircuts” it will apply when accepting assets as security in
its refinancing operations, according to a  statement  issued by
the bank. The schedule shows the ECB will increase the haircuts
applied to asset-backed securities to 16 percent from 12 percent
and that it will apply specific haircuts on bonds rated BBB+ to
BBB-. The changes will take effect Jan. 1, 2011.  
 Higher haircuts make it more expensive for banks to borrow
from the ECB. A 10 percent haircut on an asset means the central
bank would lend commercial banks 90 percent of its value.  
 The new framework differentiates collateral according to
factors such as maturity and credit quality. It was published
after a study by the ECB on the risk exposure of its balance
sheet. The ECB is trying to reduce the risk it takes in lending
to banks even as it provides them with as much cash as they want
to see them through the financial and sovereign debt crises.  
 For more, click here.  
 BP, Vivendi Among Companies That May Save Billions From Ruling  
 A  U.S. Supreme Court  ruling last month may translate into
billions of dollars in litigation savings for foreign-based
companies including  Vivendi SA ,  Infineon Technologies AG ,
 Societe Generale  and  BP Plc , as court decisions this week have
shown.  
 In the June 24 ruling in Morrison v. National Australia
Bank, the court said federal securities laws don’t let non-
Americans sue in U.S. courts over shares of a foreign company
that are listed only on an overseas exchange. The justices
unanimously threw out a fraud lawsuit by three Australian
shareholders against Melbourne-based  National Australia Bank
Ltd.   
 The dispute centered on a class of cases known colloquially
as foreign-cubed or F-cubed suits because they involve foreign
corporations, shareholders and exchanges.  
 Companies are already benefiting. A federal judge in New
York on July 27 trimmed a suit against  Credit Suisse Group AG ,
ruling that the decision barred claims by American purchasers of
the Zurich-based company on the Swiss stock exchange. A judge
this week heard Vivendi’s bid to throw out most of a jury
verdict in an investor suit that seeks $9 billion. And lawyers
suing Societe Generale and Infineon agreed to scale back their
lawsuits.  
 Lawyers differ on how wide the scope of the decision will be
in eliminating claims.  
 For more, click here.  
 Measure Legalizing Some Online Gambling Passes U.S. House Panel  
 A House committee yesterday approved legislation that would
legalize some Internet gambling, allowing U.S. residents to
place online wagers with companies the Treasury Department has
licensed.  
 The measure, sponsored by Representative Barney Frank,
chairman of the  House Financial Services Committee , would roll
back a law designed to block such betting. That four-year-old
law, which took effect in June, bars banks from processing
payments to offshore gambling websites. Frank described the
regulation as “intrusive” and a “problem for the financial
institutions.”  
 Frank and other proponents, such as the  Poker Players
Alliance , say licensing and regulating online gambling will
protect consumers who are placing a growing number of bets with
offshore operators.  
 A separate measure that depends on full House passage of
Frank’s plan would impose taxes on online poker and other
Internet gambling.  
 For more, click here.  
 Banks Laud Basel Capital Compromise; Germany Has Concerns  
 Banks worldwide applauded changes to proposed capital and
liquidity standards that relaxed aspects of the rules and gave
lenders as much as eight years to comply.  
 Lobbying groups in Europe and the U.S. praised the changes
announced July 26 by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
as steps in the right direction, while firms including  Deutsche
Bank AG  and  UBS AG  welcomed the softening of rules proposed by
the committee in December.  
 The Basel committee agreed to continue allowing some
assets, including banks’ minority stakes in other financial
firms, to count in part as capital, reversing its initial
stance, as well as expanding the definition of liquid assets and
giving banks until 2018 to comply with a new  leverage ratio 
designed to rein in risk-taking.  
 Separately, Jochen Sanio, the president of BaFin, Germany’s
financial regulator, said Germany won’t block the new Basel
accord,  Boersen-Zeitung  reported, citing an interview.  
 For more, click here.  
 Compliance Action  
 FSA Bans Simply Trading Directors for Posing Risk to Clients  
 Britain’s financial regulator banned three directors of
stockbroker  Simply Trading Group Ltd.  from holding senior
management positions for failures that posed a “serious risk”
to customers.  
 Stephen Coles, Luke Ryan and Michael Yamoah failed to
ensure the closely held company met rules such as capital
resource requirements, the  Financial Services Authority  said
yesterday in a statement. The trio also failed to use phone-
monitoring equipment to observe representatives and relied too
heavily on external compliance consultants for business advice.  
 The case is the ninth completed enforcement action stemming
from the FSA’s probe of selling practices used by small firms
when they recommend higher-risk shares.  
 A message left for Coles, Ryan and Yamoah at Simply
Trading’s office wasn’t immediately returned. The FSA said the
men weren’t represented by lawyers.  
 Veterans Agency to Probe Insurer Handling Soldiers’ Benefits  
 The U.S.  Department of Veterans Affairs  is investigating
life insurance companies’ practice of putting veterans’ death
benefits in corporate accounts and keeping most of the
investment profits instead of paying the survivors. Mike
Walcoff, acting undersecretary for the agency’s  Veterans Benefit
Administration , said yesterday in a statement announcing the
investigation that it would be “completely unacceptable” for
insurers to profit from such practices.  
 Bloomberg Markets magazine reported what has become a
standard practice for life insurance policies issued by
companies including  Prudential Financial Inc.  and  MetLife Inc. 
 Prudential .  
 In addition to the VA inquiry,  the New York State Insurance
Department  will review the legality of the practice, Deputy
Superintendent Matthew Gaul said yesterday. Pentagon spokesman
Geoff Morrell said yesterday he had no comment.  
 The American  Council of Life Insurers  released a statement
saying retained-asset accounts help survivors.  
 For more, click here.  
 BlackBerry Said to Face Possible Restriction in India  
 Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry service may be banned
in India unless the Canadian company agrees to resolve security
concerns, according to a government official with direct
knowledge of the matter.  
 India has told Research In Motion to set up a proxy server
in the country for government monitoring of e-mail traffic,
according to three government officials, who declined to be
identified as the information is confidential.  
 Research In Motion faces increased competition from
smartphones in India, the world’s second-biggest mobile-phone
market. The BlackBerry maker had some services blocked in
neighboring Pakistan this year, and the United Arab Emirates is
considering tightening security.  
 The Waterloo, Ontario-based company has assured the Indian
government that it will address the nation’s security concerns,
U.K. Bansal, a special secretary in the home ministry, tasked
with domestic security, said today.  
 For more, click here.  
 Visa Says Justice Department Is Considering Antitrust Lawsuit  
 Visa Inc. , the world’s biggest payments network, said the
U.S. Department of Justice may sue the company over a policy
that bars merchants from charging extra to customers who pay
with credit cards, Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders
said yesterday in a conference call with analysts after San
Francisco-based Visa reported fiscal third-quarter results.  
 Visa,  American Express Co.  and Purchase, New York-based
 MasterCard Inc.  disclosed in 2008 that the Justice Department
was investigating the companies over so-called anti-surcharging
policies and rules prohibiting merchants from “steering”
customers to other forms of payment.  
 The recently passed Dodd-Frank Act addresses some of the
Justice Department’s antitrust concerns.  
 MasterCard, which is scheduled to report second-quarter
results on Aug. 3, didn’t address Visa’s comments. Joanna
Lambert of New York-based American Express declined to comment.  
 For more, click here.  
 BP Spill Thwarts Shell, Statoil in Arctic Oil Delay; BP Shares  
 BP Plc’s  disaster in the Gulf of Mexico will keep the
planet’s biggest pot of untapped oil and gas under the Arctic
ice for now as regulators toughen drilling rules and demand
better ways to handle spills.  
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc  has had plans to explore off Alaska
halted by both U.S. authorities and a federal court ruling last
week. Norway’s  Statoil ASA  faces government restrictions on
drilling in Arctic waters, while BP has put off developing its
 Liberty  prospect in the Beaufort Sea until 2011.  
 The delays come as the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries restricts access to reserves, energy demand rises and
easy-to-reach fields are depleted. Arctic waters, where
countries including Norway, Canada, Iceland, the U.S. and Russia
claim territorial rights, may hold 90 billion barrels of crude.  
 Separately, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
will focus on whether third parties traded shares of  BP Plc  with
inside knowledge as the company worked to bring the Macondo oil
well under control, CNBC’s Kate Kelly said, citing people
familiar with the situation.  
 For more, click here.  
 IBM Probes Show EU Keeps ‘Tough Stance’ on Technology  
 The European Union’s probes into  International Business
Machines Corp.  show that  Competition Commissioner  Joaquin
Almunia may continue his predecessor’s penchant for going after
technology companies.  
 Investigations under former EU antitrust commissioner
Neelie Kroes resulted in 1.68 billion euros ($2.2 billion) in
fines against  Microsoft Corp.  and a record 1.06 billion euro
penalty against  Intel Corp.  Almunia is likely to maintain an
aggressive approach, lawyers said.  
 Companies can be fined as much as 10 percent of annual
sales for violating EU antitrust rules. IBM’s  sales  last year
were $95.76 billion.  
 The European Commission , the antitrust regulator for the
27-nation EU,  said  the in-depth investigations would look at
whether Armonk, New York-based IBM is abusing its dominant
position in the market for mainframe computers.  
 For more, click here.  
 Courts  
 Hedge Fund Manager Greenwood Pleads Guilty to Fraud, Conspiracy  
 Hedge fund manager Paul Greenwood, the general partner of
WG Trading Co., pleaded guilty to six federal charges including
conspiracy and securities fraud.  
 Greenwood and Steven Walsh, his fellow manager of WG
Trading and WG Investors, were indicted last July on charges
that they conspired to defraud investors of $554 million, and
pleaded not guilty at that time. Prosecutors said the fraud went
on for 13 years and cost investors from $800 million to $900
million.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which sued the
men, described WG Trading Investors as an unregistered
investment vehicle. The Commodities Futures Trading Commission
also sued Greenwood and Walsh.  
 WG Trading had offices in New York, Connecticut and New
Jersey.  
 The criminal case is U.S. v. Greenwood, 09-cr-722, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Google Sued Over Claims Street View Invades Privacy  
 Google Inc.  was sued over claims its collection of data via
Wi-Fi networks for the company’s Street View program violates
federal wiretapping and California privacy laws. The suit seeks
class-action, or group, status.  
 The lawsuit was filed July 27 in San Jose, California, on
behalf of Rick Benitti, who argues that Google intercepted
business and personal information from his home wireless network
when he lived in San Francisco from 2005 to this year.  
 Google said in May it mistakenly gathered information from
open wireless networks while it was capturing images for its
Street View service, a product that lets users view photographs
of an area online.  
 A Google representative didn’t immediately return a phone
call and e-mail message seeking comment.  
 The case is Benitti v. Google, 10-3297, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose). The Oregon
case is Vicki Van Valin v. Google, 10-00557, U.S. District
Court, District of Oregon (Portland).  
 BP Fights U.S., Oil Spill Victims Over Venue for Gulf Lawsuits  
 BP Plc , the U.S. and plaintiffs who filed hundreds of
lawsuits seeking billions of dollars for damages stemming from
the April explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig are fighting
over where the cases should be heard first.  
 A panel of federal judges in  Boise , Idaho, will hear
arguments today on which city will host spill suits. The suits
include wrongful-death claims by families of  workers  killed in
the explosion, losses of revenue by Gulf Coast businesses, and
securities claims by holders of U.S. shares in the London-based
energy company. The federal government wants the cases
consolidated in federal court in New Orleans, while BP said it
prefers Houston.  
 The seven-judge  panel , appointed by the chief justice of
the U.S. Supreme Court, meets periodically in locations around
the country. The judge they choose to preside over the BP cases
will make crucial legal rulings on what evidence can be used and
which laws applied.  
 The main MDL case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
“Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
MDL Docket No. 2179.  
 Ex-New Star Fund Manager Can Sue Over ‘Bullying,’ Court Says  
 Patrick Evershed, a former  New Star Asset Management
Holdings Inc.  fund manager, can proceed with a lawsuit over
claims he was bullied by company founder John Duffield, a London
court said.  
 Evershed, 69, can pursue whistleblowing and unfair
dismissal claims against the fund, a London appeals court ruled
today. New Star had sought to dismiss the whistleblowing claim,
which allows him to seek unlimited damages. Most unfair
dismissal claims are capped at about 65,000 pounds ($101,000) in
the U.K.  
 Evershed was suspended by the fund shortly after writing a
letter to New Star human resources department complaining of
Duffield’s conduct in October 2008, according to the judgment.
He claims in the suit that Duffield bullied him into reopening
his fund, which “destroyed” the fund’s performance and
Evershed’s reputation.  
 New Star has denied the allegations and said that Evershed
resigned, according to the judgment. New Star’s lawyer, Melanie
Lane, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call after the
ruling.  
 Enron’s Skilling Seeks Bail While Appealing Fraud Convictions  
 Convicted ex- Enron Corp.  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey
Skilling, claiming a June U.S. Supreme Court ruling entitles him
to a new trial, asked an appeals court to release him from
prison on bail while he pursues an appeal, according to a bail
request filed yesterday with the U.S. Court of Appeals in New
Orleans.  
 Skilling, 56, is serving a 24-year sentence after a Houston
jury convicted him for leading what prosecutors said was a
widespread accounting fraud that deceived investors about
Enron’s true financial condition. In June, the high court ruled
in Skilling’s favor, saying he was prosecuted under a law
barring honest services fraud that doesn’t apply to his case.  
 Skilling also asked that his convictions be reversed and he
be retried. Tracy Schmaler, a spokeswoman for the Justice
Department, said after the Supreme Court ruling that the
government “will vigorously defend” the Skilling case when it
returns to the New Orleans appeals court.  
 The case is U.S. v. Skilling, 06-20885, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 Interviews/Reports  
 Blinder, Zandi Say U.S. Bailouts Likely Averted a Depression  
 The U.S. response to the financial crisis probably
prevented a depression, slowed a decline in gross domestic
product and saved about 8.5 million jobs, economists Alan
Blinder and Mark Zandi said.  
 Policies including the government fiscal stimulus, bailouts
of financial companies, bank stress tests and the Federal
Reserve’s purchase of mortgage-backed securities to lower
interest rates “probably averted what could have been called
Great Depression 2.0,” Blinder and Zandi said in a report dated
yesterday. Without those measures, the U.S. would have
deflation, they said.  
 Lawmakers are debating the costs and benefits of rescue
measures including the 2008 taxpayer bailouts of  Citigroup Inc. 
and Bank of America Corp.  
 Blinder, 64, a former Fed vice chairman, is a Princeton
University economics professor and vice chairman at  Promontory
Interfinancial Network LLC , a Washington-based banking
consultant. Zandi, 51, is chief economist at New York-based
Moody’s Analytics Inc.  
 For more, click here.  
 Ace’s Greenberg Says Regulators Probably Can’t Handle Reforms  
 Ace Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer  Evan Greenberg  said he
doubts the biggest rewrite of U.S. financial rules since the
Great Depression will halt industry excess because regulators
botched their jobs in the credit crunch.  
 Looking back on the crisis and the role that current
regulators “played or didn’t play in recognizing accumulations
of risk and bad underwriting in the credit business, it doesn’t
give me a whole lot of encouragement about how regulators will
behave in the future,” Greenberg said yesterday in a conference
call.  
 For more, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        