-- MAN AG Second-Quarter Net Income Jumps Sevenfold as Truck Demand Recovers
-- Oliver Suess
-- 2010-07-29T11:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/man-reports-second-quarter-net-income-of-199-million-beating-estimates.html

          
          
             MAN SE , Europe’s third-largest
truckmaker, reported a second straight quarter of profit as
demand for heavy trucks in the region recovers.  
 Second-quarter  net income  was 153 million euros ($199
million), compared with 22 million euros a year earlier, Munich-
based MAN said today in a statement. Profit beat the 141
million-euro average estimate of six analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 16 percent to 3.6 billion euros, driven by
Latin America.  
 MAN is benefitting from a rebound in demand for heavy
trucks in Europe, where its division has been profitable since
March, and a surge in sales in Brazil. Swedish rivals  Volvo AB 
and  Scania AB  beat estimates with their earnings, while  Daimler
AG , the world’s biggest truckmaker, forecast this week a 6
billion-euro operating profit on a surge in demand at the truck
unit and at Mercedes-Benz cars.  
 “The trucks business is in recovery mode but it has not
yet completely overcome the previous recession,” said  Frank Schwope , an analyst at NordLB in Hanover who recommends selling
MAN shares. “Operating profit would be considerably smaller
without the gains in Latin America.”  
 Turbine Declines  
 The Latin America division, formed out of the Brazilian
business bought from  Volkswagen AG  in March 2009, posted a
record 53 percent gain in second-quarter truck sales to 16,748
units. MAN Chief Executive Officer  Georg Pachta-Reyhofen  said on
July 19 that European sales may increase about 10,000 units this
year to more than 50,000 vehicles.  
 “Our business in Latin America was already booming, but
now Europe, Russia and the Middle East have been coming back as
well,” CEO Pachta-Reyhofen told a press conference in
Munich. “We expect to deliver more than 100,000 vehicles
this year.”  
 Short-time work arrangement will phase out in the second
half of this year,      Chief Financial Officer  Frank Lutz  said.  
 Sales at the diesel-engine and turbine division, which
accounted for about a quarter of group revenue, declined 7
percent to 894 million euros in the period.  
 MAN  fell  as much as 3.21 euros, or 4.4 percent, to 69.78
euros and traded at 70.39 euros as of 1:11 a.m. in Frankfurt,
valuing the manufacturer at 10.2 billion euros.  
 MAN is 29.9 percent  owned  by VW, Europe’s biggest  carmaker .
VW bought the MAN stake to help Soedertaelje, Sweden-based
Scania fend off the German truckmaker’s hostile bid three years
ago. Volkswagen took a majority holding in  Scania  in 2008. MAN,
which has a 17.4 percent holding in Scania, has said it’s open
to cooperation with the Swedish rival.  
 New Truck Unit  
 Volkswagen named  Jochem Heizmann , its production chief,
this month to run a new division overseeing VW’s truck holdings
from Oct. 1.  
 Growing demand for trucks, busses and engines will allow
MAN to scale back the number of short-time working days to 20 in
the second half from 50 in the first six months for production
staff and to 19 days from 40 for office workers. MAN said on
July 7 that it won an order for 350 commercial vehicles from a
Belgian logistics company with the trucks to be delivered this
year and next.  
 Orders in power engineering, the newly created segment
combining MAN’s diesel-engine and turbine and RENK AG divisions,
increased 64 percent to 977 million euros while operating profit
declined 19 percent to 127 million euros.  
 Talks on future of MAN’s remaining stake in industrial-
services unit Ferrostaal continue, CFO Lutz said, adding that he
is “confident” that a solution will be found by the end of the
year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        