-- Ananda Krishnan's Buyout Offer Drives Measat to Six-Year High in Malaysia
-- Chan Tien Hin
-- 2010-07-29T02:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/ananda-krishnan-s-buyout-offer-drives-measat-to-six-year-high-in-malaysia.html

          
          
             Measat Global Bhd.,  Malaysia’s sole
satellite operator, rose to its highest level in more than six
years after billionaire  T. Ananda Krishnan  bid 662 million
ringgit ($207 million) for full control of the company.  
 The stock climbed 6.8 percent to 4.06 ringgit at 9:55 a.m.
in Kuala Lumpur, set for its highest close since Jan. 9, 2004.
Krishnan, 72, offered 4.20 ringgit a share for the 40.4 percent
of Measat he doesn’t already own, according to a statement
yesterday.  
 “The pricing is fair; investors should accept the offer,”
 Yeow Yeonzon , an analyst at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. said in
a report today. “Given the low liquidity and lack of
understanding of the sector, the company has made little impact
in the investors’ radar.”  
 Taking  Measat  private will allow Krishnan, Malaysia’s
second-richest man, to reorganize the company and accelerate
investments in  markets  in Asia, Middle East, Africa, Europe and
Australia without seeking shareholder approval. Measat requires
substantial capital investments to develop new satellite
initiatives including joint ventures and strategic partnerships,
the company said in a statement yesterday.  
 The offer provides minority shareholders an “opportunity
to exit at an attractive premium while not subjecting them to
the associated risks of Measat’s expansion plans,” Measat said.  
 Bid Premium  
 Krishnan’s bid was 10.5 percent higher than the stock’s
price of 3.80 ringgit before trading was suspended yesterday.
The offer values Kuala Lumpur-based Measat at 1.64 billion
ringgit.  
 Krishnan in March announced a 2.5 billion ringgit buyout
bid with a group of investors for  Astro All Asia Networks Plc .
He also privatized mobile phone company Maxis Communications in
2007, before relisting its domestic operations last year.  
 Measat  owns four satellites able to provide transmission
capacity for telecommunications and broadcasting services to
Asia, Middle East, Africa, Europe and Australia, according to
its website. Measat leases its transmission capacity to Astro
All Asia to run a pay-TV service in Malaysia and Brunei.  
 “Measat group’s loan covenants currently restrict its
ability to raise further substantial capital funding,” the
company said in the statement. “Private ownership at this stage
will facilitate Measat group’s recapitalization and
restructuring to support its satellite expansion plans.”  
 Krishnan is Malaysia’s richest person after  Robert Kuok ,
with wealth estimated at $8.1 billion, according to Forbes
magazine. The billionaire also owns stakes in gaming and power
group  Tanjong Plc , and has interests in real estate, marine
transport and oil and gas companies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        