-- Maoists in India Blow Up Pipelines, Putting $78 Billion at Risk
-- Mehul Srivastava
-- 2010-07-29T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/maoists-in-india-blow-up-pipelines-as-78-billion-in-resources-threatened.html

          
          
             At the heart of the Bailadila Hills
in central India lie 1.1 billion tons of raw ore so pure and
plentiful that half a century after miners  first hacked  at it
with pickaxes, it remains the richest, and one of the largest,
iron deposits on the planet.  
 Essar Steel  Ltd. built a  plant  near the hills in 2005 to
turn the ore into a liquid. The Mumbai-based company, controlled
by billionaire brothers  Ravi  and  Shashi Ruia , added a 267-
kilometer pipeline to pump the slurry to the east coast, where
Essar makes steel.  
 Yet on this quiet June day, cobwebs hang on rusted pipes in
the all-but-abandoned facility, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its September 2010 issue. Caretakers prepare to
switch truck-size rock crushers out of their coma, rousing the
machines for five minutes a month to ensure they still work.  
 Maoist rebels from the surrounding Dandakaranya forest
armed with guns and explosives -- and some wielding axes and
bows and arrows -- attacked the facility four times in little
more than a year, officials at the now-mothballed plant say.
They burned 54 trucks waiting at factory gates in April 2008 and
damaged part of the slurry pipeline, the world’s second longest,
in June 2009. Essar idled the plant that month.  
 ‘Sucked Into the Conflict’  
 “The Maoists are gaining ground, and India’s resource
crunch will only get deeper,” says Suhas Chakma, director of
the New Delhi-based  Asian Centre for Human Rights . “The entire
economic development of the country is being sucked into the
conflict.”  
 Half hidden even to Indians, some 10,000  Maoists  fighting
over stretches of mineral-laden land hold a Portugal-sized swath
of India known as the Red Corridor in their grip. From an area
they call the Dandakaranya Regional Zone and neighboring
forests, the  rebels  run their own schools and clinics, print
their own books, fly their own flags -- and are stepping up
their attacks.  
 Maoist-related violence killed a record 998 people last
year as assaults on economic targets reached an all-time high,
according to  Ministry of Home Affairs  data.  
 A Mumbai-bound train derailed in May, killing at least 146
people, after what police suspect was sabotage by a Maoist
group. More than 200 security officers died in attacks in the
first six months of 2010.  
 ‘Long, Bloody War’  
 “We do not have the forces to move into areas occupied by
the rebels,” Home Secretary  Gopal K. Pillai  told  India’s
Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses  in March, according
to media reports. “We have a long, bloody war ahead. It is
going to be a long haul, and I see violence going to go up.”
Pillai declined to comment for this story.  
 Home Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  told chief ministers
of Maoist-hit states on July 14 that the federal government will
strengthen security forces and provide better roads, schools and
health care in areas where Maoists operate. Maoists have some
degree of influence in 220 of the nation’s 626 districts, the
government estimates.  
 India’s failure to defuse the conflict is another setback
as it struggles to become a Western-style power. The nation must
spend $1 trillion to improve living standards and infrastructure
from 2012 to 2017 for its $1.2 trillion economy to grow at close
to 10 percent, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said on March 23.
Growth has averaged 8.5 percent a year in the past five years.  
 Further Behind  
 Even with technology parks for  International Business
Machines Corp . and  Infosys Technologies Ltd .; brand-new airports
in Bangalore, Hyderabad and New Delhi; and luxury malls for 300
million middle-class consumers, stretches of India remain mired
in poverty. Thirty-seven percent of its 1.1 billion people live
on less than $1.50 a day, the government says. Life-expectancy
and child-malnourishment rates rival those of sub-Saharan
Africa.  
 Violence in the Red Corridor has left local populations --
many of them tribal peoples -- even  further behind .  
 Maoist activity in seven eastern and central states is
threatening at least $78 billion in natural-resource projects,
brokerage CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets estimates. Beneath this
region lies the ore in the Bailadila mines; 40 billion of
India’s 46 billion tons of proven coal reserves; bauxite for
aluminum; tin; and even diamonds. India’s expansion -- and its
attempt to catch up to China in industrial prowess -- depends on
unlocking this bounty.  
 “The growing Maoist insurgency over large swathes of the
mineral-rich countryside could stall industrial-investment plans
just when India needs to ramp up its industrial machine, just
when foreign companies are joining the party,” a nine-person
 committee  of the  Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and
Industry  said in November.  
 India’s Naxalites  
 India’s Maoists, called Naxalites, take their name from a
group of villages known as Naxalbari in east India where  farmers
revolted to gain  land ownership in 1967. China, then in the
throes of  Mao Zedong ’s Cultural Revolution, praised the uprising
in the “ People’s Daily .”  
 “The Indian revolution must take the road of relying on
the peasants, establishing base areas in the countryside,
persisting in protracted armed struggle and using the
countryside to encircle and finally capture the cities,” the
Communist mouthpiece  said on July 5, 1967 .  
 Armed with rifles stolen from police and explosives
pilfered from mining companies, the Naxalites are following that
advice as they plot a collective state run by farmers and
landowners.  
 ‘New Society’  
 “Try and understand, sir: What we want is a total
eradication of the Indian government,” a man who says he’s
involved with the Naxalites’ political wing said in a May
interview with Bloomberg Markets in Jharkhand state. “A total
eradication of the multinationals,” continued the man, who
declined to have his name printed because he says he’s wanted by
police. “Only then can we build a new society.”  
 Leaders of the now-banned Communist Party of India (Maoist)
agreed on a time line and targets for their revolution at a
February 2007 meeting in a Jharkhand teak and bamboo forest so
dense that it has never been fully mapped, according to two
officials in Indian foreign intelligence agency Research and
Analysis Wing and the April 2007 Maoist newsletter “People’s
March.”  
 Solar panels powered their laptops and a diesel generator
fed a photocopier, dragged in on mules, according to the
newsletter and photographs that intelligence officials reviewed
from computers captured in later raids.  
 Targeting Steel  
 The Maoist leaders put top steelmakers on their  hit list .
Today, Essar; ArcelorMittal, run by billionaire  Lakshmi Mittal ;
 JSW Steel Ltd.  and Tata Steel Ltd., both based in Mumbai; and
Pohang, South Korea-based Posco have made little headway on
planned projects in India’s mineral belt.  
 Delays in acquiring land have hurt ventures that could help
double the country’s steel production to 110 million tons a
year, Steel Minister Virbhadra Singh said on Dec. 10.  
 ArcelorMittal, based in Luxembourg, wants to build a $10
billion plant in Jharkhand and another in the east coast state
of Orissa. Local farmers, some of them coached by the Maoists,
refuse to move to accommodate the world’s largest steelmaker.
The company declined to comment for this story.  
 “Naxalism has emerged as the biggest single internal
security challenge,” Prime Minister Singh said at a New Delhi
 press conference  on the first anniversary of his second term in
May. “Controlling Naxalism is very necessary for the country’s
progress,” he added.  
 Deadly Train Sabotage  
 Singh’s warning played out with deadly consequences four
days later. As the Gyaneshwari Express sped toward the financial
capital of Mumbai on May 28, the train derailed after hitting
track police suspect a Maoist-backed group called People’s
Committee Against Police Atrocities had sabotaged. The express
rammed into a cargo train.  
 Almost 15 hours after the crash, workers were still using
chain saws to reach survivors. A child’s red shirt lay strewn
across engine controls. A red suitcase had burst open, leaving
clothes spilled and chocolate cookies rotting in the heat.
Authorities arrested four group members on July 1; a trial date
hasn’t been set.  
 About 400 miles (644 kilometers) away, Naxalites ambushed a
70-person security team as it cleared roads of improvised
explosive devices, killing 26 on June 29. Rebels had assaulted a
similar patrol in April, killing 76 soldiers in the worst such
attack in the uprising’s almost 43 years.  
 Creating Fear  
 “The Maoists think the best way to create disorder,
confusion, terror and discredit the government is to target
civilians,” says  Kalim Bahadur , former professor of South Asian
Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. “The
objective is to create fear.”  
 The Naxalites are winning the trust of some farmers as
companies and states try to commandeer land for industry. From
2001 to 2007, 1.4 million residents were displaced in four
states after their property was taken under India’s equivalent
of eminent domain laws, the  Ministry of Rural Development 
estimated in 2008.  
 Ninety percent said they’d gotten too little  compensation ,
according to the  Indian Social Institute , which aids minorities.
Naxalites argue that in the height of economic bounty, India is
ignoring its neediest.  
 “There is no ready, quick fix,” says  Walter Rossini , who
helps manage $1.2 billion in emerging-market stocks, including
Tata Steel, at Milan-based Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA. “The Tata
Group knows the situation very well -- and the risk -- but the
region is very rich in natural resources. If you wait, the
opportunity may not last forever.”  
 ‘Left-Wing Connections’  
 Tata Steel  plans plants in Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and
Orissa states. In Chhattisgarh, Tata says, 70 percent of the
affected families have accepted the offer of up to $4,200 per
acre -- at least twice the market rate -- a small plot for a
house and the possibility that Tata would provide land elsewhere
and a job with the company.  
 “There are a minuscule percentage of hard-core families
having extreme left-wing connections who are delaying the
process,” spokesman  Sanjay Choudhry  says.  
 In West Bengal state, JSW paid about $6,400 an acre. It
threw in another $6,400 in company shares. Near Delhi, Reliance
Industries Ltd. paid as much as $46,000 an acre in 2007.  
 Posco , Asia’s most profitable steelmaker, has gotten
nowhere with its proposed 26,000-acre (10,520-hectare) Orissa
steel plant and port. Villagers have rejected all offers and
erected barricades around their land, scuffling with police and
Posco officials.  
 ‘Living Like a Slave’  
 “Why should they move?” says Abhay Sahoo, a communist
leader who has led  protests against Posco . “The farmer may not
be living like a king, but without his land, he will be living
like a slave.”  
 The violence stretches back to the years after India’s
independence from Britain in 1947. Communist parties pledged to
distribute land to farmers, an initiative that stalled in the
1950s.  
 After the 1967 revolt, the Maoists failed to spread into
Kolkata, then called Calcutta. Leaders started local uprisings
in Andhra Pradesh and Kerala states. By the late 1990s, the
Andhra Pradesh government had chased the fighters into the
Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand forests, where they started fresh,
says Aditya Swaroop, cabinet and principal secretary for
Jharkhand.  
 The Maoists began re-emerging around 2003. The Chhattisgarh
state government launched the  Salwa Judum , or Purification Hunt,
paying villagers $40 a month to fight the rebels and help force
people off their land for companies, says Chakma of the Asian
Centre for Human Rights.  
 Violent Raids  
 “With the active support of government security forces,
Salwa Judum members conducted violent raids on hundreds of
villages suspected of being pro-Naxalite,” a 2008  study  by
Human Rights Watch found.  
 The state evicted people from at least 640 villages to make
way for proposed Essar and Tata factories, according to a March
2009  draft report  by the Ministry of Rural Development. About
350,000 villagers were displaced, “their womenfolk raped, their
daughters killed and their youth maimed,” the report said.
Those who didn’t escape into the jungle were herded into refugee
camps, where some 60,000 still live.  
 A  later report , dated December 2009, drops references to
forceable displacement and assaults as well as references to
Essar and Tata. The ministry didn’t respond to requests to
comment on either report. Essar says it had no connection to the
Salwa Judum; Tata noted that the final report had removed the
allegations.  
 Forest Meeting  
 Six-hundred Maoist rebels slipped out the Dandakaranya
forest and swarmed state-controlled  National Mineral &
Development Corp. ’s iron ore facility, not far from Essar’s
plant, in February 2006.  
 They hijacked a vehicle delivering food and killed nine
policemen, according to a report by the  Central Reserve Police
Force , or CRPF, a paramilitary agency. They carried off 20 tons
of ammonium nitrate explosives, loading boxes onto wooden
stretchers for the trek back into the forest.  
 The next year, the CPI (Maoist) met for the first time in
30 years for the Ninth Congress, as members called the strategy
session deep in the forest. Government helicopters buzzed
overhead, too high to spot the gathering, while villagers and an
indigenous population faithful to the rebels kept watch, the man
who spoke to Bloomberg in Jharkhand says.  
 ‘Glorious Event’  
 “I call upon the people of India to come forward in large
numbers and support this embryonic people’s war and protect
India from the greed of the Mittals, Tatas, Ruias and
(unintelligible),” Muppala Lakshana Rao, general secretary of
the CPI (Maoist) told the crowd, according to a transcript
created from a video of his speech. “Indians, rise up as a tide
to smash imperialism.”  
 In Jharkhand, the man remembers the Ninth Congress and
smiles.  
 “It was a glorious event in our history,” says the man,
who recalls trekking three days into the forest to reach the
gathering.  
 A four-hour drive from Ranchi, the capital of Jharkhand,
some villagers welcome today’s Maoists. The road ends before it
reaches the home of Laxmi, a tribal beer brewer and, as such,
among the lowest castes in India’s hierarchy. Laxmi, an
emaciated man with yellowing teeth who asks to be identified by
one name, says his 15-year-old son ran away to join the
Naxalites, and he can’t blame him.  
 “The more my son read books, the angrier he got at how
poor we were,” he says.  
 Laxmi’s Tale  
 Laxmi says he has seen a doctor once in his life, when his
family loaded him onto a passing bus to get a cast on his broken
arm. A dilapidated health clinic with a clipboard in a desk
drawer lists the last nurse visit: October 1998. Today, women
use the building to defecate away from public view.  
 Prime Minister Singh says families like Laxmi’s make
obvious targets for Naxal recruitment.  
 “These areas have lagged behind the rest of the country,”
Singh  told ministers  of Naxal-affected states, according to a
July 14 transcript. “For far too long have our tribal brothers
and sisters seen the administration in the form of a rapacious
forest guard, a brutal policeman.”  
 Singh’s government has  deployed  about 47 CRPF battalions --
some 50,000 troops -- and 10 battalions of an elite force called
Commando Battalion for Resolute Action to Chhattisgarh,
Jharkhand and three neighboring states.  
 Bansi Kumar Ponwar, a former army brigadier who fought
insurgencies on India’s borders with China and Pakistan, is
training security forces in Kanker, less than 100 kilometers
from the Dandakaranya forest.  
 Counter Terrorism College  
 Officers spend 45 days on jungle survival, speed marching
and rappelling from helicopters at his Counter Terrorism and
Jungle Warfare College. Then they leave for their regular police
or CRPF units.  
 Ponwar chose Kanker because its hilly, tree-covered terrain
is like Maoist strongholds.  
 “Isn’t it funny that right in the heart of India, there’s
an entire region where normal people like you and I just can’t
walk in?” he says. “You will be killed, or kidnapped or
questioned by some authority other than Indian police. It’s
become a kind of liberated zone.”  
 Such entirely rebel-run territories are key to Maoist
plans, according to their training manuals. The CRPF estimates
1,500 to 2,000 guerillas come to the forests each year to learn
modern weaponry, and children as young as 16 are trained in AK-
47s and rocket launchers. In April 2005, November 2006 and March
2007, Maoists attacked two armories and a police station,
killing 55 people and carrying off 730 rifles and 28,000 rounds
of ammunition.  
 ‘Safeguard Your Weapons’  
 “Safeguard your weapons like your life,” reads page 52 of
a 200-page manual the CRPF took from a village in 2008. “The
enemy must be finished, his weapons seized and he must be made
powerless.”  
 The few people who have been invited into these rebel-run
zones, such as Booker Prize-winning author  Arundhati Roy ,
describe places devoid of formal Indian presence. They portray
an  egalitarian society  where people live in balance with the
untouched forests.  
 The Maoists carry printing presses on horses or mules to
distribute news from Indian, Nepali and South American
communists, according to the man in Jharkhand and propaganda
manuals reviewed by Bloomberg Markets.  
 ‘A Red Salute’  
 In one instance documented by the CRPF, four Maoists used
laptops to tap into a mobile phone tower near the Dandakaranya
forest, sending mass text messages declaring their presence.
Mostly, they communicate by notes in the regional Telugu
language carried by children. The young messengers hide the
letters, known as biscuits, folded into small squares in their
mouths. Some read like poetry.  
 “A red salute to our red brothers,” says a redacted
version seen by Bloomberg Markets. “There is beauty in the
rains and also strength.” Intelligence officials interpret the
latter sentence as a signal to lie low until the monsoons end.  
 CRPF Special Director General for Left Wing Extremism Vijay
Raman looks over three-dimensional maps on June 12 created from
satellite data gathered by the  Indian Space Research
Organisation . Then he plans an attack on a suspected Maoist
gathering in Jharkhand. The offensive will claim 10 Maoists, but
Raman says military action isn’t the answer.  
 ‘These People Are Indians’  
 “I really would be the last person to open fire on them,”
he says. Instead, the government must supply electricity,
schools and roads. “Ultimately, fundamentally, these people are
Indians,” he says. “The only solution is to reach out to these
populations.”  
 Until then, the rebels may count on villagers like Laxmi,
for whom they act as a surrogate government.  
 “The Maoists think of themselves as Robin Hood types, but
they harm innocent people,” Ponwar says. “Mr. Robin Hood needs
to be reminded that this is not justice; this is jungle law.”  
 Ponwar ponders a deeper question: “How come the great
Indian economic boom has bypassed these tribals?” he asks.
“Bows and arrow, still, like in the 18th century.”  
 Laxmi’s town, with its mud huts and derelict clinic, shows
what India is up against as it strives to unleash its industrial
riches and become a world power.  
 The village lies near the site proposed for one of the two
ArcelorMittal steel plants. Police and CRPF soldiers pass
through weekly, to chat and establish routes.  
 At night, the Maoists make their rounds. Some, like Laxmi’s
son, meet their families before heading back into the forest.
Others gather information, discuss ideology and recruit
volunteers, Laxmi says.  
 Then, in a sentiment that bodes ill for India’s
aspirations, he adds, “If I were young and could carry a gun, I
would join too.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Mehul Srivastava  at +91-
   msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bansi Kumar Ponwar, a former army brigadier, shown on horseback, trains security forces in Kanker, India, less than 100 kilometers from the Dandakaranya forest on June 14, 2010. 
Photographer: Sanjit Das/Bloomberg Markets via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
