-- Aquarius Platinum Considering Closing Its Blue Ridge Mine For Seven Months
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-29T07:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/aquarius-platinum-considering-closing-its-blue-ridge-mine-for-seven-months.html

          
          
             Aquarius Platinum Ltd. , the fourth-
largest producer of the metal, may shut the Blue Ridge mine it
bought last year in South Africa for as long as seven months to
improve safety and efficiency.  
 Production from the mine in the 2011 financial year may be
“substantially lower than guided,” the Bermuda-based company
said in a statement today. Aquarius had planned to increase
output to 120,000 ounces of platinum group metals during the
year, according to its website.  
 Blue Ridge, a joint venture with Imbani Platinum Ltd,
requires “fundamental redevelopment,” Aquarius said. Senior
personnel changes are also being made, it said.  
 A safety review was started at  Blue Ridge  after two
fatalities in the quarter ended June 30, during which the mine
lost 22 production days because of stoppages ordered by
government inspectors who visited the mine eight times. Platinum
group metal output from Blue Ridge fell by a third to 10,202
ounces during the three months.  
 Five workers were crushed to death at the company’s
 Marikana  mine venture with  Anglo Platinum Ltd.  on July 6. The
number four shaft was re-opened after 17 days and Aquarius
committed to improving safety there. Both mines tap the world’s
richest reserves of platinum, located in the north of South
Africa. The country produces more than three quarters of the
world’s supply of platinum.  
 Aquarius’s attributable output rose 7 percent to 110,474
platinum group metal ounces during the fourth quarter from the
previous three months, bringing production for the year to
422,619 ounces, it said. Platinum group metals include platinum,
rhodium and palladium amongst others.  
 Shares  in Aquarius fell as much as 5.1 percent in London
and were trading 4.8 percent lower at 271 pence at 8:23 a.m.
local time, giving the company a market value of 1.26 billion
pounds ($1.97 billion).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        