-- Arab Ministers Support Direct Israeli-Palestinian Talks With Conditions
-- Mahmoud Kassem
-- 2010-07-29T15:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/arab-ministers-support-direct-israeli-palestinian-talks-with-conditions.html

          
          
             Arab foreign ministers have given
their backing to direct talks between Palestinian and Israeli
leaders, provided a schedule and an agenda are agreed on
beforehand, Qatar’s Foreign Minister  Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber al-Thani  said.  
 “The direct talks have to have a time frame,” Al-Thani
told reporters in Cairo. “We didn’t talk about when and how to
launch the direct talks.” The timing would be decided by the
Palestinians, he said, and a message outlining the Arab position
had been sent to President  Barack Obama .  
 Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he was ready
to begin direct peace talks “within days.” His response came
in a text message to reporters.  
 Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  in Cairo
today presented the 13 foreign ministers who make up the Arab
Peace Initiative Committee with the results of indirect talks
between Israel and the Palestinians conducted by U.S. Middle
East envoy  George Mitchell . Obama has been trying to persuade
Netanyahu and Abbas to move to direct talks.  
 Obama said on July 6 that direct Israel-Palestinian talks
may start within three months. Abbas has said he wants a
complete halt to the building of Jewish settlements in the West
Bank before meeting Netanyahu face-to-face.  
 The Arab League endorsed the U.S.-brokered negotiations in
May and gave them four months to produce tangible results.  
 Saudi Talks  
 The summit follows a meeting late yesterday in the Egyptian
resort town of Sharm el-Sheikh between Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and Saudi Arabia’s  King Abdullah . The Saudi monarch is
the sponsor of a draft peace agreement, drawn up in 2002 and
endorsed by 22 countries, that proposes normalization of
relations between Israel and Arab states in exchange for a full
Israeli withdrawal from occupied territories.  
 Abbas suspended peace negotiations with Israel after its
2008 military offensive in the Gaza Strip, which is controlled
by the militant Islamic group Hamas, considered a terrorist
organization by the U.S., the European Union and Israel.  
 “The Palestinian leadership still has the desire to make
peace based on the implementation of the world’s resolutions,
but Israel, so far, hasn’t shown any seriousness,” Jamal
Mehesen, a senior member of Abbas’ ruling Fatah party, told
Voice of Palestine radio today.  
 Netanyahu on July 26 told a parliamentary committee that a
10-month freeze on settlement construction, which expires in
September, still stands.  
 Cairo Meetings  
 Abbas and Netanyahu separately held talks with Egypt’s
President Mubarak in Cairo on July 18, though they didn’t meet
each other. Netanyahu later flew to Amman to meet Jordan’s King
Abdullah on July 27, where the two leaders discussed ways of
restarting direct talks ”that would resolve all final status
issues” in line with a two-state solution, the official Petra
News Agency said.  
 Jordan became the second Arab country to sign a treaty with
Israel in 1994 after Egypt signed a peace accord in 1979.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abdel Latif Wahba  in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        