-- Maradona Claims `Betrayal' and `Lies' After Losing Argentina Coaching Job
-- Eliana Raszewski
-- 2010-07-29T13:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/maradona-claims-betrayal-and-lies-after-losing-argentina-coaching-job.html

          
          
             Diego Maradona , whose contract as
coach of Argentina’s national team wasn’t renewed, said soccer
officials lied and betrayed him.  
 Maradona, who guided his country to the World Cup
quarterfinals this month, said yesterday that he was “lied to”
by Argentine Football Association President  Julio Grondona  and
had been “betrayed” by national team manager  Carlos Bilardo .  
 “All my team and I were ready to continue,” Maradona, 49,
told reporters on the outskirts of Buenos Aires. “They called
me to put out a fire and we put it out. I’ve given everything.”  
 The association’s executive committee “unanimously
resolved” not to extend his deal two days ago because Maradona
rejected requests to change his aides, committee member Rafael
Savino said. Maradona told Argentine television this week that
he wouldn’t continue in the post he took in late 2008 if the
association insisted on changes to his staff.  
 “I feel sorry for Maradona,” Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  told reporters in Buenos Aires last night
after the fired coach’s statements.  
 “I stand by all my people, from the masseuse to the
equipment man,” Maradona said yesterday, reading from a
prepared statement. His staff included two doctors, two
assistant coaches, two physical trainers, a press officer and an
equipment manager, among others.  
 ‘Impossible’  
 Maradona said that Grondona told him after the World Cup
quarterfinal loss to Germany on July 3 that he wanted him to
continue. When the pair met three days ago, Grondona said that
seven of his aides had to leave, according to Maradona, who was
voted best player of the 1986 tournament.  
 “By telling me that, he was in fact telling me that he
didn’t want me to stay,” Maradona said. “He knows that it
would have been impossible for me to continue if my aides
wouldn’t continue.”  
 Grondona walked “up to me in the dressing room after the
Germany defeat, embraced me and told me he was happy with our
job,” Maradona said in his statement yesterday.  
 Speaking to reporters, Grondona said last night that it
wasn’t his intention to force Maradona out with the requests of
changes.  
 No Betrayal  
 “I don’t see that there’s been any kind of betrayal,”
Grondona said. “He believes that changes to improve things
signify betrayal.”  
 During his radio show last night, Bilardo said he has
always supported Maradona.  
 “How did I betray him?” Bilardo said. “I’ve always
defended Maradona to the death.”  
 Association spokesman Ernesto Cherquis Bialo didn’t return
a telephone call from Bloomberg seeking comment.  
 Maradona, who led Argentina to its last World Cup title in
1986 and the final four years later, took over the national team
in November 2008. He used more than 100 players, winning 18 and
losing six of his  24 international games  in charge.  
 Argentina lost six matches in 2009, the first time since
1919 that it had so many defeats in a calendar year. Maradona
didn’t oversee that year’s loss to Catalonia because he was
banned for a profanity-laced tirade toward journalists following
a World Cup qualifying game.  
 South Africa  
 In South Africa, Argentina exited in a 4-0 defeat to
Germany that was its most lopsided World Cup loss in 36 years.  
 Maradona’s team finished fifth at the tournament, according
to soccer governing body FIFA, Argentina’s best result since
losing in the 1990 final.  
 Sergio Batista , the coach of Argentina’s under-20 team,
will lead the senior squad in its next match, an Aug. 11
exhibition against Ireland. Batista played with Maradona at the
1986 World Cup and coached Argentina to the gold medal at the
2008 Beijing Olympics.  
 Bilardo, who coached Argentina at the 1986 and 1990 World
Cups, will continue in his role, Cherquis Bialo said two days
ago. Bilardo took the position when Maradona was named coach in
2008. Last year, Bilardo told reporters he would quit if
Maradona left the national team.  
 Argentina is scheduled to host next year’s Copa America as
it seeks a first major trophy at the senior level since 1993.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Argentina's coach Diego Maradona reacts at the end of the 2010 World Cup quarter-final match Argentina vs. Germany on July 3, 2010. Photographer: Daniel Garcia/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
