-- Argentine Peso Bonds Beat Dollar Debt by Most in Year on Record Reserves
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-07-29T22:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/argentine-peso-bonds-beat-dollar-debt-by-most-in-year-on-record-reserves.html

          
          
             Argentine peso bonds are recording
their best performance against the country’s dollar securities
in a year as rising commodity exports swell  foreign reserves  to
a record and shore up the local currency.  
 The yield difference between the government’s peso bonds
due in 2033 and its 8.28 percent dollar bonds maturing the same
year narrowed 79 basis points, or 0.79 percentage point, since
the end of May, the biggest two-month drop since the nine weeks
ended July 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s Argentine unit is recommending
investors buy the peso bonds after international reserves
climbed 3.6 percent to $51 billion since June 30, heading for
the biggest monthly increase since November 2007, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Policy makers bought dollars,
helping keep the peso stable, after a record 55 million-ton
 soybean  harvest swelled exports.  
 “We are seeing a huge increase of external reserves in the
country,” said  Alberto Bernal , the head of fixed-income
research at Bulltick Capital Markets, a Miami-based brokerage
focused on Latin America. “More liquidity is equaling more
growth, and certainly some of that goes into peso-denominated
bonds. Argentina looks increasingly interesting under this
environment.”  
 The yield on Argentina’s 2033 peso bonds, which are
adjusted for inflation, has tumbled 271 basis points in the past
two months to 11.55 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The country’s 8.28 percent notes due the same year
slid 198 basis points over the period to 10.94 percent.  
 ‘Mostly Benefit’  
 The peso is little changed this month at 3.9370 per U.S.
dollar. One-month implied volatility on peso options fell to
4.24 percent from 4.92 percent a month ago. The measure, which
reflects investors’ expectations of future price swings in the
peso, is the lowest among the six most-traded Latin American
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “The trade that can mostly benefit is being long peso
discounts as we observe that demand for the currency has
increased as the government is showing it can keep the dollar
under control,”  Ivan Aftalion , a fixed-income trader at Buenos
Aires-based Standard Bank Argentina, wrote in a note earlier
this week.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed seven basis points to
691 at 5:21 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The gap is down from 846 on July 1.  
 Peso Forecasts  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 16 basis points to
790, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The peso fell 0.1 percent today, leaving it down 3.5
percent this year. The peso will weaken to 4.2 per dollar by
year-end, according to the median estimate of 13 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 “The big issue is how you approach the peso risk,” said
 Gorky Urquieta , who oversees $12 billion of emerging-market
assets at ING Investment Management in Atlanta. “We debated
whether we go into the local bonds. The conclusion is unless we
have a constructive or positive view that the peso will be
allowed to appreciate, we don’t really see an incentive to be
involved right now.”  
 Economic Growth  
 Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said July 15 that economic
growth will be “at least” 6 percent this year, up from an
earlier estimate of 5 percent. Argentina’s  economic activity
gauge , a proxy for gross domestic product, jumped 12.4 percent
in May from a year earlier, the government said July 16. The
increase topped the median 9.1 percent estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of economists and is the biggest since March 2004.  
 “If you are positive about the global economy, positive
about commodities, you should buy peso bonds,” Bulltick’s
Bernal said. “If the world economy continues to perform well
and monetary policy remains expansive, peso bonds will very
easily outperform dollar bonds.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ye Xie  in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        