-- Most Asian Stocks Fall as Fed Comments Spur Concern; Shipping Shares Gain
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-07-29T09:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/asian-stocks-decline-as-fed-heightens-growth-concerns-samsung-inpex-drop.html

          
          
             Most Asian  stocks  fell as U.S.
Federal Reserve comments that growth slowed in some areas of the
economy overshadowed signs of increased corporate earnings.  
 Samsung Electronics Co., which gets a fifth of its revenue
in America, sank 1.2 percent in Seoul.  Panasonic Corp.  slumped
7.7 percent in Tokyo on speculation the company will sell stock
to buy out two units. Taiwanese handset maker  HTC Corp.  climbed
6.9 percent after Citigroup Inc. raised its share-price estimate.
 Nippon Yusen K.K. , Japan’s largest shipping line by sales,
jumped 5 percent after almost doubling its forecast for profit.  
 About five stocks fell for every four that rose on the  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index , which gained 0.2 percent to 119.65 as of
5:48 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge has slumped 7.4 percent from its
high this year on April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis and
Chinese steps to curb property prices will slow global growth.  
 “The economic outlook is unclear and we don’t know how
long this will continue,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a strategist
in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $65 billion.  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 0.6 percent and Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index was little changed. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index slipped 0.1 percent, while South Korea’s Kospi Index
slid 0.2 percent. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  gained 0.6
percent after the central bank said it will maintain a
“moderately loose” monetary policy.  
 Panasonic Buy Out  
 Futures on the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500 gained 0.6
percent. The gauge slipped 0.7 percent yesterday in New York
after the Fed said U.S. economic growth slowed in some areas in
the past two months, dragged down by commercial real estate and
the expiration of a tax credit for homebuyers.  
 Samsung Electronics  fell 1.2 percent to 827,000 won in
Seoul. James Hardie Industries SE, the biggest seller of home
siding in the U.S., lost 1.5 percent to A$6.56 in Sydney.
Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest maker of portable video-game
players, lost 1.5 percent to 24,620 yen in Osaka, Japan.  
 “Economic activity has continued to increase, on balance,
since the previous survey,” the Fed said in its Beige Book
business survey, while noting that two of the Fed’s 12 districts
reported the economy “held steady” and two said the expansion
slowed.  
 Panasonic, Japan’s largest home-appliance maker, plunged
7.7 percent to 1,077 yen in Tokyo, the second-biggest drop in
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index today. After trading closed, the
company offered to buy full control of its  Sanyo Electric Co. 
and Panasonic Electric Works Co. units, a plan reported earlier
by the Nikkei newspaper.  
 Panasonic Electric Works increased 15 percent to 1,124 yen.
Sanyo Electric soared 26 percent to 149 yen, the two biggest
gains in the MSCI index.  
 Faltering Growth?  
 Economic data from the U.S. this month have fueled concerns
the world’s biggest economy is stalling. Sales at  U.S. retailers 
declined in June for a second month, the Commerce Department
reported on July 14. The Conference Board reported on July 27
that its index of consumer confidence fell in July from June.  
 Speculation global economic growth may falter dragged down
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index by as much as 9.6 percent this year,
and the  average  price of stocks in the gauge dropped this month
to its lowest level since December 2008. The index’s companies
now trade at 14.4 times estimated profit, compared with 13.4
times for the  S&P 500 .  
 In Taipei, HTC climbed 6.9 percent to NT$570 after
Citigroup analyst  Kevin Chang  raised his share-price estimate to
NT$663 from NT$571.43.  
 China Southern  
 Japan’s Nippon Yusen rose 5 percent to 358 yen after it
doubled its net income forecast for this fiscal year amid higher
demand for transporting goods by container.  Kawasaki Kisen
Kaisha Ltd. , the country’s third-biggest shipping lines by sales,
gained 2.7 percent to 378 yen. The company also raised its full-
year profit target.  
 China Southern Airlines Co. , the nation’s biggest carrier
by fleet size, climbed 3.6 percent to HK$3.77 in Hong Kong after
saying first-half profit may have risen 5,000 percent.  
 Chinese shares advanced after the Financial News, which is
published by the central bank, reported the bank’s deputy
governor  Ma Delun  as saying that the nation will maintain a
moderately loose monetary policy in the second half of this
year.  
 In Shanghai, Anhui Conch Cement Co., China’s biggest cement
maker, increased 3.3 percent to 20.22 yuan and Gansu Qilianshan
Cement Group Co. surged 4.5 percent to 16.12 yuan. Citic
Securities Co. raised its recommendation on China’s cement
industry to “overweight,” citing the construction of low-
income housing and government-backed industry mergers in a
report today.  
 In Tokyo,  NEC Corp. , Japan’s largest maker of personal
computers, tumbled 3.7 percent to 235 yen after reporting a
wider first-quarter net loss.  Nomura Research Institute Ltd. 
slumped 12 percent to 1,723 yen after the information-technology
provider said first-quarter net income fell 33 percent. That was
the biggest drop in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        