-- Stocks Drop, Led By Technology Shares; Euro, Commodities Rise
-- Kelly Bit
-- 2010-07-29T20:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/asian-stocks-drop-yen-gains-on-concern-pace-of-economic-growth-may-slow.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, sending the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  lower for a third day, as earnings
and forecasts disappointed investors at technology and consumer
companies. A gauge of commodities rose to a 12-week high on
speculation the economic recovery will boost demand.  
 The S&P 500 slipped 0.4 percent to 1,101.5 at the 4 p.m. 
close in New York, trimming its July  advance  to 6.9 percent. 
The  Stoxx Europe 600  Index fell 0.4 percent, wiping out earlier 
gains that sent the gauge above its highest close in 12 weeks. 
The euro rose to $1.31 for the first time since May as a gauge 
of European economic confidence climbed to a two-year high. The
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials jumped 1.5 percent.  
 Technology shares were the biggest drag on the S&P 500
after Akamai Technologies Inc. said profit margins shrank, while
Nvidia Corp. and Symantec Corp. slid on profit forecasts.
Colgate-Palmolive Co. helped lead makers of consumer staples
lower after earnings trailed estimates. Equities also slid amid
concern government data tomorrow will show the economic recovery
is slowing.  
 “There’s enough nervousness out there -- sentiment is
extraordinarily tentative,” said  Robert Weissenstein , who
oversees $130 billion as chief investment officer at Credit
Suisse Group AG’s private banking unit in New York. “Even in
the face of good news there’s a hesitation to embrace that.”  
 Earlier gains in equities followed better-than-estimated
earnings at companies from Exxon Mobil Corp. to AstraZeneca Plc,
a decrease in U.S. jobless claims and an improving outlook for
Europe’s economy. About 70 percent of companies in the  MSCI
World Index  have reported better-than-projected profit so far in
the second-quarter reporting season, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 Economy Concern  
 The S&P 500 has lost 1.2 percent over the past three days
as a slump in consumer confidence and a drop in durable goods
orders spurred concern the economic rebound is slowing as the
government unwinds stimulus programs. A Commerce Department
report tomorrow may show U.S. growth slowed to 2.6 percent in
the second quarter, from 2.7 percent in the first, based on the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Jan Hatzius , chief U.S. economist for Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in a note to clients that the unwinding of federal
and state stimulus spending is likely to reduce gross domestic
product by 1.7 percentage points in 2011 after boosting growth
by 1.3 percentage points between early 2009 and early 2010.  
 Treasury  seven-year security yields lost 4 basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.36 percent. They pared declines that
had sent the yield as low as 2.33 percent after the U.S. sold
$29 billion of seven-year debt in the last of three note
auctions this week totaling $104 billion.  
 7-Year Auction  
 The auction drew a yield of 2.394 percent, compared with
the average forecast of 2.375 percent in a Bloomberg News survey
of 6 of the Federal Reserve’s 18 primary dealers.  
 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said the central bank should resume purchases of Treasury
securities if the economy slows and prices fall rather than
maintain a pledge to keep rates near zero.  
 “The U.S. is closer to a Japanese-style outcome today than
at any time in recent history,” Bullard said, warning in a
research paper released today about the possibility of
deflation. “A better policy response to a negative shock is to
expand the quantitative easing program through the purchase of
Treasury securities.”  
 Default Swaps Retreat  
 A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
approached the lowest in 11 weeks. Credit-default swaps on the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of
103.94 basis points, according to index administrator Markit
Group Ltd.  
 The cost of insuring against losses on European bank bonds
fell, heading for a record monthly decline, according to traders
of credit-default swaps. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of
swaps linked to 25 banks and insurers decreased 2 basis points
to 113.5 at 4:02 p.m. in London, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. The gauge is down 51.5 basis points this month and near the
lowest level since April 21.  
 The dollar fell against 14 of 16 major currencies, sliding
at least 0.6 percent against the euro and the yen, and slipping
1.5 percent against the Swiss franc.  
 The euro climbed against nine of 16 currencies, rallying
more than 1 percent versus the New Zealand dollar and at least
0.6 percent versus the pound and South Africa’s rand.  
 European Confidence Rises  
 European confidence  in the economic outlook rose to the
highest in more than two years in July and German  unemployment 
declined for a 13th month as exports sustained a recovery in the
region. An  index  of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 16
euro nations increased to 101.3 from 99 in June, the  European
Commission  in Brussels said today. That’s the highest since
March 2008.  
 Crude oil rose for the first time in a week in New York,
climbing 1.8 percent to $78.36 a barrel. Copper for September
delivery jumped 1.4 percent to $3.29 a pound after touching
$3.297, the highest level for a most-active contract since May
4. Coffee, gaining as much as 4.3 percent, approached a 12-year
high. Wheat headed for the biggest monthly gain since 1973.  
 European stocks  fell for a second day as food and basic-
resource companies retreated and concern mounted that tomorrow’s
U.S. gross domestic product report may show growth slowed in the
world’s largest economy.  
 Nestle, Unilever Slip  
 Nestle SA and Unilever slid more than 1.5 percent after
U.S. rivals Kellogg Co. and Colgate-Palmolive reported revenue
that missed estimates. Vallourec SA dropped 3.1 percent after
saying a recovery in the steel industry will slow.  Telefonica
SA , Europe’s second-biggest phone company, and Cap Gemini SA,
the region’s largest computer-services company, gained more than
3 percent on increased earnings.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed for an eighth day,
rising 0.3 percent. Russia’s Micex Index increased 1.7 percent
as oil producer OAO Rosneft rallied, while Ukraine’s benchmark
equities index gained 3.5 percent after the International
Monetary Fund approved a $15.2 billion loan to the country.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelly Bit  at   kbit@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Technology shares were the biggest drag on the S&P 500 after Akamai Technologies Inc. said profit margins shrank, while Nvidia Corp. and Symantec Corp. slid on profit forecasts. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a third day, as earnings and forecasts disappointed investors at technology and consumer companies. A gauge of commodities rose to a 12-week high on speculation the economic recovery will boost demand. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Yacktman, manager of the Yacktman Focused Fund, discusses the performance of Viacom Inc., ConocoPhillips and Microsoft Corp. shares and the outlook for the companies.
     Yacktman speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Pavel Molchanov, an energy analyst at Raymond James & Associates, discusses Exxon Mobil Corp.’s second-quarter profit reported today and the outlook for the company’s performance.
     The largest U.S. oil company said net income jumped 91 percent to $7.56 billion, or $1.60 a share, exceeding analyst estimates. Molchanov speaks with Carol Massar and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde talks about the outlook for global growth and plans to tackle the sovereign debt crisis in Europe.
     She speaks from Paris with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
