-- Australia Defers Environmental Decision on Shell Gas Project on Election
-- James Paton
-- 2010-07-30T06:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/australia-s-garrett-defers-environmental-decision-on-shell-s-prelude-lng.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s  Prelude
project became the third Australian natural gas venture this
month to face delays in obtaining environmental approval as the
country heads toward an election in three weeks.  
 The nation’s environment department extended a review of
the Prelude development by two more months to Oct. 1, a document
filed on its website shows. A decision on Shell’s plan to
pioneer the use of a floating liquefied natural plant off the
nation’s northwest coast had been expected by Environment
Minister  Peter Garrett  today following a previous delay.  
 The minister earlier this month deferred decisions on two
LNG ventures proposed by energy producers  Santos Ltd.  and BG
Group Plc until Oct. 11, saying he needed more time to examine
the “potentially significant environmental impacts.”  
 The Santos and  BG  projects in Queensland state are the
first coal-seam gas-to-LNG developments to be evaluated by the
government, a spokesman for Garrett said July 14. While the
Queensland government cleared the plans, the state Coordinator-
General Colin Jensen raised concerns the “significant” amount
of water and salt extracted could pose environmental risks.  
 The environment department today cited the “caretaker”
period leading to the  Aug. 21 election  as the reason for
deferring a decision on the Prelude project. That’s when “major
policy decisions” that could bind an incoming government must
be avoided and “controversies” should be prevented, according
to the website of the Australian prime minister and cabinet.  
 ‘Complex Matters’  
 The review of Shell’s proposal has been extended until
after that period “because decisions on these types of
strategic and complex matters, where there are no clear
precedents, must be made by the federal environment minister --
they cannot be delegated to the department,” the department
said in e-mailed comments in response to questions.  
 Shell is on schedule to make a final investment decision on
Prelude in early 2011,  Claire Wilkinson , a Perth-based
spokeswoman for Shell, said in e-mailed comments today. Studies
show Prelude has a “very low overall environmental impact, and
we look forward to hearing the minister’s comments.”  
 Santos and BG said earlier this month that they still
expect to reach final investment decisions in 2010.  
 Shell may become the first to use floating LNG technology
aimed at developing gas deposits too small or far from the coast
to be profitably exploited through onshore plants. An investment
decision on Prelude is due in 2011, Shell said in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        