-- Australian, New Zealand Dollars Weaken on Concern China's Growth Will Slow
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-30T16:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/australian-dollar-trades-near-highest-since-may-heads-for-monthly-advance.html

          
          
             The Australian and New Zealand
dollars fell this week versus the yen before a report economists
said will show manufacturing growth slowed for a third month in
China, adding to signs global growth is losing momentum.  
 The Aussie also weakened after a central bank report showed
bank lending grew in June at the weakest pace in seven months.
New Zealand’s dollar is set for its biggest weekly loss since
July 2 against the greenback as home-building approvals declined
and its central bank said yesterday deteriorating growth will
slow the pace of interest-rate increases.  
 “The Chinese PMI data is out Sunday with rumors of a
sharply weaker number,” said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency
strategist in Hong Kong at Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s
biggest lender. “If that is realized, I would expect both
Aussie and kiwi to open on Monday a lot weaker.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar declined 0.3 percent to 62.65 yen at
12:42 p.m. in New York from yesterday, set for a 1.5 percent
weekly loss. It advanced 0.1 percent to 72.48 U.S. cents.  
 Australia’s currency fell 0.1 percent to 78.08 yen. It
gained 0.4 percent to 90.38 U.S. cents from 90.05 cents, after
rising to 90.69 cents on July 27, the highest since May 10. The
currency has gained 7.5 percent against the greenback this
month, the biggest advance since May 2009.  
 China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index for July will slip below
50 for the first time since February 2009,  Glenn Maguire , chief
Asia economist for Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong, said July
28. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey is for a
reading of 51.4 when the figure is released on Aug. 1.  
 N.Z. Growth  
 China is Australia’s largest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-biggest export market. The  MSCI Asia Pacific 
index declined 0.5 percent, ending a five-day gain.  
 New Zealand’s dollar slid for a third day against the yen
as the statistics bureau said home-building permits dropped 6.6
percent in the second quarter after falling 0.1 percent in the
previous three months.  
 “The recent disappointing consent numbers are just one
piece in a list of evidence that suggests the Reserve Bank
should be removing stimulus only gradually,” said  Philip Borkin , economist at Goldman Sachs JBWere Ltd. in Auckland.  
 Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said yesterday that the
“pace and extent” of further increases to the benchmark rate
will likely be “more moderate” than a June projection, after
boosting the official cash rate to 3 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        