-- BAE Systems Targets Brazil, Civil Sales as U.K. Slashes Defense Spending
-- Howard Mustoe
-- 2010-07-29T11:51:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bae-systems-says-it-posted-a-965-million-profit-in-first-half-after-loss.html

          
          
             BAE Systems Plc , Europe’s largest
defense company, said it’s targeting new arms markets including
Brazil and building up civil-sector sales as Britain prepares
for the biggest cuts to military spending since World War II.  
 South America’s leading economy heads a group of nations
that London-based BAE is scrutinizing in a bid to expand its
manufacturing base beyond the seven countries it considers
“home markets,” Chief Executive Officer  Ian King  said today.  
 “If you look at Brazil, it’s a big economic powerhouse and
it’s looking to spend money on defense,” King said on a
conference call. “In terms of defense spending I would say that
it’s got to be top of the list.”  
 BAE, maker of Eurofighter warplanes, Astute submarines and
Excalibur artillery shells, posted first-half net income of 618
million pounds ($965 million), rebounding from a loss, as it cut
3,300 jobs and sales grew 9.2 percent to 10.6 billion pounds,
with 20 percent coming from Britain. The company’s six home
markets overseas include India, where it yesterday won a 500
million-pound order for 57 Hawk jet trainers.  
 Shares of the BAE were trading up 3 percent at 326.5 pence
as of 12:50 p.m. in London, paring declines this year to 9.1
percent and giving a market value of 11.1 billion pounds.  
 BAE is the biggest of 11 suppliers to Britain’s Ministry of
Defence that are slated to hold cost-saving discussions in the
first review of the country’s military capabilities since 1998.
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government is seeking
spending cuts and tax increases of 113 billion pounds to slash a
budget deficit that’s equal to 11 percent of economic output.  
 Carriers, Submarines  
 Projects for aircraft carriers, fighter planes and nuclear
submarines on which BAE is the lead contractor may all be at
risk from the review, due to be completed this autumn.  
 “The group anticipates a challenging trading environment
as governments look for cost savings to address budgetary
pressures and enhance value for money,” King said in a
statement today. While activity at BAE’s armored-vehicles unit
will decline as it completes contracts related to wars in the
Middle East, King said he still expects “growth” in 2010.  
 BAE is assessing countries with growing military budgets, a
skilled or trainable workforce and receptive governments,  Guy Griffiths , managing director at of the International division,
said last week. French fighter-plane maker Dassault Aviation SA
is also in talks with Brazil about exports, it said today.  
 Oil Boom  
 “Brazil is a potential market because of its growing oil
base,” said  Howard Wheeldon , senior strategist at BGC Partners
in London. “These days defense is about deterrence and also
diplomacy; it’s so much easier if you have the kit behind you.”  
 India became BAE’s latest home market in January, helping
the company win the follow-on contract for Hawk trainers, which
will be built in the country by Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. The
south-Asian nation could also be the focus for the manufacture
of artillery pieces, according to Griffiths.  
 In North America, which accounts for more than half of
BAE’s sales, the company is part-way through a revamp aimed at
improving competitiveness as the Pentagon seeks to slash as much
as $60 billion from weapons and military-service purchases over
five years. The division is also looking to add information-
technology companies and providers of military repair-services,
 Linda Hudson , its CEO, said on July 21.  
 “I think exports, international growth and home markets
outweigh any concerns I have about U.K. and indeed U.S. defense
cuts for BAE,” Wheeldon said.  
 Wave Power  
 BAE is also extending its diversification into civil
engineering and technology contracts, King said. The company is
supplying components for hybrid buses in the U.K. and hydrogen
fuel cells in the U.S., and was this week hired by Aquamarine
Power Ltd. to help design and build wave-energy generators.  
 “We have a very strong technology base in our home
markets, and we look at adjacencies to see if we can use these
technologies in another market,” King said. “Power management
is one, and also renewables, where we think there are going to
be increasing government initiatives.”  
 Britain will permit the export of nuclear technology to
India for the first time, Business Secretary  Vince Cable  said
yesterday in Bangalore, opening the door to contracts for
companies including BAE, which in 2008 agreed to cooperate with
Toshiba Corp.’s Westinghouse Electric Co. to bid for a new
generation of atomic reactors in the U.K.  
 “There is already a declaration under which a certain
amount of modest research can take place, and we want to take
this to a higher level,” Cable said.  
 Continued growth in weapons sales means the civil business
is unlikely ever to outstrip defense revenue, King said.  
 BAE won’t be affected by Italy’s cancellation of 23
Eurofighter Typhoon aircraft as it never banked on the second
part of the third batch of planes, the CEO said.  
 “It’s never been clear to us where the funding would come
from,” he said.  
 BAE’s first-half earnings were equal to 17.7 pence a share,
rebounding from a loss of 82 million pounds, or 2.3 pence.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted net income of 650.3
million pounds on sales of 10.18 billion pounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        