-- Bank Risk Headed for Record Monthly Decline in Europe Amid Stress Relief
-- Abigail Moses
-- 2010-07-29T15:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bank-risk-headed-for-record-monthly-decline-in-europe-amid-stress-relief.html

          
          
             The cost of insuring against losses
on European bank bonds fell, heading for a record monthly
decline, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  
 The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps linked to 25
banks and insurers decreased 2 basis points to 113.5, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 4:02 p.m. in London. The gauge is
down 51.5 basis points this month and near the lowest level
since April 21.  
 The European Union’s bank stress tests and a softening of
proposed capital and liquidity rules by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision reassured bondholders that lenders can
withstand an economic slowdown. The extra yield investors demand
to hold financial notes over government debt fell 13 basis
points to 220 since the results were released July 23, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data show.  
 “The recent stress tests might help alleviate concerns
over European banks’ capital positions,”  Gary Jenkins , head of
credit strategy at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London wrote in
a note to investors. The key is now “whether banks will be able
to consistently access market funding at terms which allow them
to make a meaningful contribution to a fully functioning
economy,” he wrote.  
 Lenders are rushing to sell bonds in euros to take
advantage of the improvement in risk appetite, with Bank of
America Corp. issuing 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of seven-
year notes and Banco Santander SA completing a 1.5 billion-euro
four-year deal today.  
 European Confidence  
 Sentiment was boosted as European confidence in the
economic outlook rose to the highest in more than two years in
July and German unemployment declined for a 13th straight month
as an export-led recovery gathers strength. French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde  predicted a “serious” acceleration
in the global expansion next year.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell 3.25 basis
points to 102.75, the lowest since May 14, JPMorgan prices show.
That’s more than 28 basis points tighter this month, the biggest
decline since April 2009.  
 Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps on
50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings fell 15 basis
points to 470, the lowest since May, and are down 115.5 basis
points so far this month, the biggest decline since December.  
 A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13 million) of debt from default for five years
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline signals
improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        