-- BP Drilling Ban Would Cost U.S. Jobs, Company Says
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-07-29T20:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/barring-bp-from-drilling-would-cost-jobs-in-u-s-company-tells-congress.html

          
          
             BP Plc  objected to legislation that
would bar the oil company from operating new drilling leases in
U.S. waters, saying it could trigger job losses and threaten the
nation’s energy security.  
 Commenting for the first time on Congress’s response to the
Gulf of Mexico oil spill, BP said in letter to House leaders
that the ban in a bill to be taken up tomorrow may have a
“drastic impact” on a company that is the largest producer in
the deep waters of the Gulf.  
 House and Senate leaders presented legislation July 27
imposing tougher offshore drilling rules on safety and
environmental protection after the BP spill in the Gulf, the
worst in U.S. history. The House version would also bar BP from
new leases, based on its safety record.  
 “BP does not fit Americans’ expectations of how a
responsible company should act,” Representative  George Miller ,
the California Democrat who drafted the safety measure, said
today in an e-mail. “This provision would ensure that only
responsible and safety-minded companies drill in American
waters.”  
 Congressional Democrats have said their legislation is
necessary in response to the spill, which followed an April 20
explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig leased by
London-based BP. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, said today that the measure would be taken up by the
full House tomorrow.  
 Chamber’s Opposition  
 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today opposed the measure in a
letter to lawmakers, saying its unlimited liability for spills
and restrictions on drilling “would have serious and negative
impacts on U.S. energy and economic security.”  
 Among provisions cited by the Washington-based Chamber, the
largest U.S. business lobbying group, were new fees on oil
companies and a requirement that oil company chiefs personally
attest to the safety of their operations.  
 Under Miller’s provision, drillers with safety violations
greater than five times the industry average over the past seven
years wouldn’t be eligible for new leases. Companies must also
certify to the Interior secretary that they have fewer than 10
fatalities at exploration and production facilities and were
assessed less than $10 million in environmental fines over the
period. He has said BP would be barred under those terms.  
 Energy Independence  
 “If this provision were to limit our ability to develop
new and existing energy sources, it would harm the ongoing
effort to increase America’s energy independence,”  David Nagel ,
executive vice president of BP America, said in the July 28
letter to Pelosi and House Republican Leader  John Boehner  of
Ohio.  
 A Senate version of the bill would disqualify companies
that fail to meet “due diligence or environmental requirements
on other leases,” or that fail to meet obligations under the
1990 Oil Pollution Act. It would be up to the Interior secretary
to determine if a company complies.  
 BP “has a flagrant history of taking risks to boost
profits that has resulted in deaths of workers, destruction of
the environment and economic chaos in local communities,”
Miller said in a statement when he introduced his proposal on
June 30.  
 Before the blowout at BP’s Gulf of Mexico well, which
killed 11 workers, a 2005 explosion at the company’s refinery in
Texas City, Texas, killed 15 workers, and a 2006 pipeline leak
dumped 200,000 gallons of crude at Prudhoe Bay, Alaska.  
 While BP supports stronger drilling regulation, it is
concerned that the provision in the House measure “could have
profound consequences for the Gulf Coast economy and jobs, and
for the nation as a whole,” Nagel said in the letter.  
 The House measure is H.R. 3534. The Senate bill is S. 3663.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       David Nagel BP America Executive Vice President  
                       
                         
                           Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images 
                         
                         David Nagel, BP America Executive Vice President, said proposed legislation would have a "drastic Impact" on jobs. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     David Nagel, BP America Executive Vice President, said proposed legislation would have a "drastic Impact" on jobs. Photographer: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
