-- Bayer Cuts Full-Year Forecasts at Two of Three Units as Profit Declines
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-07-29T16:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bayer-second-quarter-net-falls-on-legal-charges-writedown-of-cancer-drug.html

          
          
             Bayer AG  cut this year’s forecast
for two of its three units as second-quarter profit missed
analyst estimates because of legal charges and costs to write
down the value of the Zevalin cancer medicine.  
 Net income dropped to 525 million euros ($683.2 million)
from 532 million euros a year ago, the Leverkusen, Germany-based
company said today. The result fell short of the 776 million-
euro average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Bayer lowered its forecast for its drug and crop-chemical
units, though it maintained its full-year group estimate. Poor
weather and price pressure is hurting the crop-chemical unit and
generic competition for its top-selling medicines, including Yaz
contraceptives, are weighing on drug revenue. Sales of medicines
will see a “slight increase,” while revenue from CropScience
is likely to fall this year, Bayer said.  
 “It’s not entirely unexpected,” said  Sebastian Frericks ,
a Frankfurt-based analyst for Bankhaus Metzler, in a telephone
interview, adding that investors may be pleased Bayer confirmed
its group forecast. Frericks has a “sell” rating on Bayer’s
shares. “They’re challenging numbers. Health care and crop
science were disappointing.”  
 The shares fell 6 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 44.14 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close of Frankfurt trading. Bayer has dropped 21
percent this year, making it the  second-worst performer  in
Germany’s DAX index.  
 Plastics  
 The MaterialScience plastics unit may drive growth in the
near term,  Jeffrey Holford , a London-based analyst for Jefferies
International Ltd., said in a note before the results. Bayer
said its forecast for the unit is “conservative.”  
 Bayer repeated that group earnings per share will rise more
than 15 percent this year as Ebitda before special items rises
to more than 7 billion euros. The company said it expects to
exceed its previous MaterialScience target of a sales increase
of 20 percent and more than doubling earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, also before items.  
 The company had previously expected a 3 percent rise in
sales at the drug unit. Ebitda before special items for the unit
will at least reach last year’s level, instead of increasing,
Bayer said today.  
 Yaz Sales Fall  
 Revenue from the drug unit gained 6.4 percent to 4.31
billion euros, boosted by a 10 percent increase in Bayer’s
consumer-health division. Sales of Yaz contraceptives dropped 15
percent, after  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  began
marketing a generic copy in the U.S. in June. Bayer sued Teva on
June 1, claiming the generic-drug maker’s low-cost version of
the pill infringes three patents that expire in 2014.  
 Bayer is facing lawsuits in the U.S. and Canada claiming it
ignored the health risks of the contraceptive, last year
agreeing to produce “corrective advertising” as part of a 27-
state settlement of claims it misled consumers.  
 Sales of crop chemicals rose 1.7 percent to 1.88 billion
euros as increases at Bayer’s environmental and bioscience
businesses offset revenue lost to bad weather and pricing
pressure, the company said.  
 Bayer said that 2010 sales at the crop-chemical unit won’t
reach last year’s level. The company had previously forecast an
increase of 2 percent to 3 percent. Ebitda before special items
will “decline significantly” instead of remaining at last
year’s level, the company said.  
 Sales at the MaterialScience plastics unit soared 47
percent to 2.69 billion euros as sales to the automotive and
manufacturing industries picked up.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        