-- Berlusconi Beating Murdoch in TV Soccer as Mediaset Upsets Sky
-- Tommaso Ebhardt
-- 2010-07-29T11:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/berlusconi-beating-murdoch-in-tv-soccer-as-mediaset-upsets-sky.html

          
          
             Mediaset SpA  and Sky Italia Srl, the
competing broadcasters controlled by tycoons  Silvio Berlusconi 
and  Rupert Murdoch , are in a price war for soccer viewers.  
 Berlusconi’s Mediaset has slashed the price of a soccer and
film subscription package to 14 euros ($18.26) a month until the
end of 2010 from 29 euros, undercutting Murdoch’s Sky Italia
offer of 29 euros for either soccer or films. The Serie A season
for the nation’s top teams kicks off at the end of August.  
 “In Italy, soccer is so important that it’s the first
battlefield to fight,” said Giuliano Noci, a  marketing
professor  at Milan’s Politecnico University, in an interview.
“In the last two years, broadcasting has completely changed in
Italy. Now pay-TV is the center of the ring.”  
 More than 21 million Italians, or a third of the country,
watched Italy’s debut match against Paraguay at the 2010 World
Cup tournament in South Africa. Mediaset and Sky Italia paid
more than 1.5 billion euros to the country’s soccer league for
the rights to broadcast Serie A for the next two seasons.  
 Sky Italia’s subscriptions dropped by 63,000 in the last
three months of 2009 and by 39,000 in the January-March period,
the Milan-based company reported in May. At the end of March,
Sky Italia had 4.7 million clients, compared with 2.95 million
currently at  Mediaset ’s pay-TV unit.  
 The World Cup soccer championship has led to “strong sales
growth and much lower churn” of customers leaving in the fiscal
quarter ended in June, Sky Italia Chief Executive Officer  Tom Mockridge  said June 28 at a press conference in Milan. Mediaset
didn’t broadcast the World Cup.  
 Mediaset will have “good customer intake driven by
promotional offers,” said  Andrea Devita , an analyst at Banca
Akros SpA in Milan, who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  
 Legal Skirmish  
 The decline in Sky Italia viewers occurred as the feud with
Mediaset gained momentum, beginning in December 2008 when the
government, led by Berlusconi, doubled the sales tax on pay-TV
subscriptions to 20 percent. Sky Italia retaliated with
commercials urging customers to protest the increase.  
 The European Commission said July 20 Sky Italia can bid for
frequencies to enter the free-to-air digital market. The same
day, Milan-based Mediaset pledged to appeal the ruling at the
European Court of Justice, saying Sky Italia has a monopoly in
the satellite pay-TV market and the availability of digital
frequencies is already insufficient. Beside its flagship
networks Canale 5, Italia 1 and ReteQuattro, Mediaset has four
free digital channels in Italy.  
 Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Murdoch’s  News Corp. , which owns Sky Italia, and its Dow Jones
unit in providing financial news and data.  
 Earnings  
 Mediaset climbed 19 percent during the past 12 months in
Milan trading, outperforming the 5.4 percent advance of Italy’s
benchmark FTSE MIB Index. New York-based News Corp. rose 26
percent in the same period on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 Berlusconi’s company said in May that first-quarter net
income surged 55 percent to 92.9 million euros. Revenue at the
pay-TV unit jumped 60 percent to 115.1 million euros, it said.
Sky Italia reported May 4 that operating income in the fiscal
third quarter dropped to $35 million from $63 million a year
earlier. Mediaset is due to report first-half earnings today and
News Corp. on Aug. 4.  
 Mediaset has positioned itself as “a lower-priced
provider” of pay-TV services than Sky Italia, said UBS AG
analyst  Tamsin Garrity  in a July 27 note to clients. Garrity has
a “neutral” investment  rating  on Mediaset.  
 Price Competition  
 Sky Italia cut the entry price last month for packages of
movies, soccer and other sports channels by 26 percent to 29
euros. The broadcaster isn’t relying on promotions to win
customers, betting that lower basic fees will keep clients.  
 Sky Italia is focused on high-definition programming for
soccer games of all Serie A clubs. As part of the marketing
campaign, it’s running television and print  advertisements  that
feature chubby, toothless, bald versions of players, including
AC Milan’s  Alexandre Pato  and Sampdoria’s  Antonio Cassano , who
return to their true selves when in high definition. Mediaset
also offers some HD broadcasts.  
 Mediaset this week signed Spanish TV anchor Sara Carbonero,
the girlfriend of  Iker Casillas , captain of World Cup winner
Spain, to report from Madrid on the Spanish league. Carbonero
will follow  Jose Mourinho , the new Real Madrid coach who won the
Champions League at Inter Milan earlier this year.  
 Spiders and Birds  
 Carbonero, voted the world’s  sexiest sports reporter  by the
U.S. version of U.K. men’s entertainment magazine FHM last year,
gained attention this month after receiving a kiss from Casillas
during an on-air interview after Spain’s World Cup win.  
 Mediaset plans to broadcast matches of 12 Serie A teams,
and exclusively offer the UEFA Europa League and the FIFA Club
World Cup match. Sky Italia offers 16 soccer channels, nine of
them in HD, as well as the Serie B, which Mediaset doesn’t
broadcast. It also has so-called spidercams, which give fans a
bird’s eye view of the playing field, and is adding cameras in
the players’ locker rooms.  
 The 2009-2010 soccer season had an average audience share
of 5.6 percent on Mediaset, about twice as much as a year
earlier, compared with 7.4 percent on Sky Italia, said  Franco Ricci , head of Mediaset’s pay-TV business, during a July 26
press conference in Milan.  
 Sky Italia exclusively aired the  live draw  of the 2010-2011
Serie A schedule late yesterday from the headquarters of Italy’s
stock exchange in Milan. The show was hosted by Tania Zamparo, a
former Miss Italy and sports anchor at Sky Italia.  
 Some games, including Inter Milan’s debut against Bologna,
may be played on Friday and Monday evenings to allow teams
enough time to prepare for international cup matches, news
agency Ansa reported yesterday after the schedule’s
presentation. A Serie A match will also be played on Sundays at
12:30 p.m., it said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
 Tommaso Ebhardt  at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sky Italia’s subscriptions dropped by 63,000  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Italy's prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Italy's prime minister Silvio Berlusconi. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
