-- Berlusconi Invokes Party Split, Says No Risk to Government With Support
-- Flavia Krause-Jackson
-- 2010-07-30T07:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/berlusconi-invokes-party-split-says-no-risk-to-government-with-support.html

          
          
             Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  took  steps to expel   Gianfranco Fini  from the People
of Liberty party they co-founded, a move that may end the
premier’s parliamentary majority two years into his term.  
 “There is febrile concern about the stability of the
government and by implication the political architecture of the
last 16 years,”  James Walston , who teaches politics at American
University in Rome, said in an e-mail. “The Fini opposition has
become more vocal. There is talk of a transitional government.”  
 The 73-year-old premier asked Fini to resign as a speaker
of the lower house, calling his positions “absolutely
incompatible with the founding principles of the People of
Liberty,” after the party leadership approved last night a six-
page  document  censuring Fini. “Berlusconi gets rid of Fini,”
ran the front-page headline of  il Giornale , a newspaper run by
his brother Paolo.  
 Fini said he will form a new parliamentary group with the
rest of his backers outside Berlusconi’s party, a move that
could deprive the People of Liberty of a majority in both houses
of the legislature. The public rift between the two men has
contributed to Berlusconi’s popularity falling to the lowest
since coming to power in May 2008.  
 Without Fini and his allies the prime minister’s  support  in
the lower house would fall to 310 deputies, less than the 316
needed for a majority, according to news agency Ansa. In the
Senate, backing would drop to 160, short of the 162 required to
pass bills.  
 Possible Successor  
 Fini, 58, considered one of the politicians most likely to
vie for leadership after the 73-year-old Berlusconi leaves the
scene, has criticized the premier for not allowing dissent
within the party they co-founded. Fini and his allies have
clashed with Berlusconi over a draft law to limit wiretapping,
an immunity law for top politicians, immigration policy, and
recently over how to respond to corruption probes of ministers
and party members.  
 The two allies-turned-enemies first joined forces in 1994,
and have since won three elections together, the last one in
2008, when the two fused their own parties and ran as a single
formation.  
 Fini rejected the call for him to give up his institutional
post, and gave the go-ahead to his allies to form of a new group
in both houses of parliament, Ansa news agency reported. As many
as 34 members of the Chamber of Deputies and 14 Senators were
ready to leave Berlusconi and join his rival, Ansa said.
Fini is slated to hold a news conference later today.  
 Divided Coalition  
 Pier Luigi Bersani , the leader of the biggest opposition
party, said the government is in crisis and called on Berlusconi
to reveal his support in parliament. The premier said he still
enjoyed both support in the legislature and among voters. “We
don’t believe that there’s any risk to the government,” he
said.  
 Even though he holds one of the biggest parliamentary
majorities in postwar Italy, his coalition has often been
divided. Berlusconi has had to resort to a record number of 36
confidence votes, a move that stakes the government’s survival
on the outcome, to push through legislation such as the
austerity measures to trim the country’s budget deficit.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Steve Scherer  at 
 sscherer@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Rome at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Silvio Berlusconi  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's prime minister, laughs during a news conference in Toronto. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's prime minister, laughs during a news conference in Toronto. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
