-- Black & Decker, Masco Forecasts Signal Slow Confidence Recovery
-- Anthony Feld
-- 2010-07-29T17:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/black-decker-masco-forecasts-signal-deferred-spending-by-u-s-consumers.html

          
          
             Sales projections from Stanley Black
& Decker Inc. and  Masco Corp ., which sell mainly to U.S.
consumers, signal households are struggling to recover from last
year’s recession and are delaying home improvements.  
 Masco, a maker of home improvement products, this week said
consumer spending on remodeling will be “challenged” in 2010.
Toolmaker Stanley on July 21 said it expects stores to restock
shelves at a slower pace.  
 The companies’ projections underscore the limits to sales
growth in a market where consumer confidence levels are half
those registered in 2007, the  unemployment rate  is projected to
stay close to a 26-year high and a sustained housing rebound has
yet to take hold. Consumer spending accounts for about 70
percent of U.S. gross domestic product.  
 “The combination of a sluggish labor market, much lower
levels of wealth and subdued confidence makes it very hard to
see a  consumer-spending  boom in the U.S.,” said  Zach Pandl , an
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New York.
“The overall recovery will be lackluster. Companies reliant on
U.S. consumers should be more realistic and expect less sales
growth than in past years.”  
 The Conference Board reported on July 27 that its consumer
sentiment index fell to 50.4 in July, down from an average 98
during the expansion that ended in December 2007.  
 The U.S. accounted for about 80 percent of sales last year
at Masco, and Stanley garnered 58 percent of total revenue from
the domestic market. The companies’ products are sold at
retailers such as Home Depot Inc. and Lowe’s Cos., the two
largest U.S. home-improvement chains.  
 The  Consumer Discretionary Select Sector SPDR Fund , whose
members include Home Depot and Lowe’s, fell 1.3 percent at 12:29
p.m. today and has lost 6.4 percent since June 15. The SPDR S&P
500 ETF Trust, which tracks the S&P 500 index, is down 1.9
percent during the same period.  
 Big-Ticket Delays  
 Masco this week said second-quarter sales to key retailers
were unchanged from a year earlier. The Taylor, Michigan-based
company also cut its forecast for housing starts in 2010 and
said sales since April have slowed from a year ago.  
 “Expenditures on repair and remodel activity will be
challenged in the second half of 2010,” Chief Executive Officer
Tim Wadhams said in a statement on July 26. “Big-ticket items
will continue to be deferred, in the short-term, until general
economic conditions, unemployment, consumer confidence, credit
availability and home prices improve.”  
 Stanley said customer restocking, which lifted second-
quarter sales, is not expected to continue in the latter half of
the year at the same pace. The  New Britain , Connecticut-based
company acquired Black & Decker in March this year, combining
the two largest U.S. toolmakers.  
 ‘Bumpy’ Rebound  
 “Our belief that the rebound within the end markets we
serve will be slow and perhaps bumpy remains unchanged,” Donald Allan, chief financial officer, said in a statement on July 21.  
 The New York-based Conference Board’s consumer confidence
index fell to a five-month low this month from 54.3 in June. The
report also showed the proportion of Americans who expected
their incomes to rise over the next six months dropped 10
percent, the lowest since April 2009.  
 A more frugal approach to consumer spending also is a
concern for Sherwin Williams Co., the biggest U.S. paint
retailer. The Cleveland-based company last year got about 86
percent of its sales in the U.S.  
 “We’ve commented about the skittish consumer in this
economy that any little bit of bad news tends to see some bit of
a pull back and some of this is discretionary spending,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Christopher Connor said on
a conference call with analysts on July 22. Business related to
commercial construction also is facing “headwinds,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Feld in  New York  at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        