-- BlackBerry Said to Face Possible Ban in India Over Security Considerations
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-07-29T08:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/blackberry-said-to-face-possible-ban-in-india-over-security-considerations.html

          
          
             Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry
service may be banned in India unless the Canadian company
agrees to resolve security concerns, according to a government
official with direct knowledge of the matter.  
 India has told Research In Motion to set up a proxy server
in the country to enable security agencies to monitor e-mail
traffic, according to three government officials, who declined
to be identified as the information is confidential.  
 Research In Motion faces increased competition from
smartphones including  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone in India as the
world’s second-biggest mobile-phone market prepares to roll out
third-generation wireless services. The BlackBerry maker had
some services blocked in neighboring Pakistan this year, and the
United Arab Emirates is considering tightening security.  
 “RIM has the best encryption, significant subscribers, and
a brand that’s known across the world,” said Anshul Gupta,
principal research analyst at  Gartner Inc.  in Mumbai. “This
isn’t the first time a government has had the fear that
terrorists could use BlackBerry services for international
communication.”  
 Resolving the concerns is crucial for Research In Motion to
maintain its market leadership in India, Gupta said.  
 Address Concerns  
 The Waterloo, Ontario-based company has assured the Indian
government that it will address the nation’s security concerns,
U.K. Bansal, a special secretary in the home ministry, tasked
with domestic security, said today.  
 “Whenever we have concerns we bring that concern out,” he
said. “We expect those concerns to be addressed.”  
 Research In Motion spokesman Satchit Gayakwad declined to
say if the company had been contacted by India’s
telecommunications department.  
 “RIM does not disclose confidential regulatory discussions
that take place with any government,” Gayakwad said from Mumbai.
“However, RIM assures its customers that it is committed to
continue delivering highly secure and innovative products that
satisfy both the needs of consumers as well as governments.”  
 India’s three largest mobile phone operators,  Bharti Airtel
Ltd. , Reliance Communications Ltd. and  Vodafone Group Plc ’s
local unit all offer BlackBerry services and phones in India.  
 Resolution Next Month  
 The Ministry of Home Affairs and the Department of
Telecommunications met about 10 days ago in New Delhi and the
department told the mobile-phone maker to comply with the
demands, one of the officials said. The authorities intend to
resolve the issue by the middle of next month, according to the
official.  
 Mint newspaper earlier reported the government is
considering banning mobile e-mail services including BlackBerry.  
 Research In Motion’s tussle with the Indian government
dates back to 2008, when negotiations with the Department of
Telecommunications ended with the company agreeing to allow
monitoring of e-mail on its handsets.  
 The company faced obstacles recently in Pakistan, where the
national telecommunications regulator said it blocked Internet
browsers on BlackBerry handsets, citing concerns over blasphemy.  
 BlackBerry devices, introduced in the U.A.E. in 2006, are
not covered by the country’s 2007 Safety, Emergency and National
Security rules, the  Telecommunications Regulatory Authority  said
in an e-mailed statement July 26.  
 Data from BlackBerry communications is managed on servers
outside the U.A.E., making it “beyond the jurisdiction of
national legislation,” the regulator said. “Certain BlackBerry
applications allow people to misuse the service, causing serious
social, judicial and national security repercussions.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Santosh Kumar  in New Delhi at 
 sthakur10@bloomberg.net ;
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        