-- Bollard May Pause After One More New Zealand Interest-Rate Rise, RBC Says
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-29T01:19:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bollard-may-pause-after-one-more-new-zealand-interest-rate-rise-rbc-says.html

          
          
             Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor
 Alan Bollard  is likely to raise interest rates in September and
then pause after saying today the local economy is subdued and
the global recovery fragile, according to RBC Capital Markets.  
 Analysts including Sydney-based  Michael Turner  and  Su-Lin Ong  lowered RBC’s forecasts for New Zealand rate increases after
Bollard raised the official cash rate for the second month in a
row and said the growth outlook has “softened.” Traders cut
expectations for interest rates after Governor Alan Bollard said
in a statement further increases are likely to be more moderate
than the central bank’s June projections.  
 “The tone of the short statement was notably downbeat,”
analysts including Turner wrote in an e-mailed note. “This
tightening cycle will be modest and gentle.”  
 The unit of Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s largest
lender, forecasts a 25 basis point increase at the New Zealand
central bank’s September meeting before pausing to finish the
year at 3.25 percent. The rate will rise to 4.25 percent by the
end of next year, the analysts forecast, revising down their
previous prediction of 4.5 percent.  
 The kiwi dropped to a one-week low of 72.02 cents before
buying 72.18 U.S. cents as of 10:51 a.m. in Sydney. The currency
reached a six-month high this week against the dollar.  
 New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, fell to 4.09 percent from 4.17 percent
yesterday.  
 Statistics New Zealand said in Wellington today the
country’s trade surplus shrank to NZ$276 million ($199 million)
from a revised NZ$768 million in May. That was less than the
NZ$368 million median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven economists. Exports fell 9.8 percent from a record in May
to NZ$3.78 billion, today’s report showed.  
 “The outlook for economic growth has softened somewhat,”
Bollard said. “It is still appropriate to continue to reduce
the extraordinary level of support implemented during the
2008/09 recession.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        