-- BP Fights U.S., Spill Victims Over Venue for Lawsuits
-- Laurel Brubaker Calkins
-- 2010-07-29T18:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bp-fights-u-s-government-oil-spill-victims-over-venue-for-gulf-lawsuit.html

          
          
             BP Plc, the U.S. and plaintiffs who
filed hundreds of lawsuits seeking billions of dollars for
damages stemming from the largest oil spill in U.S. history are
fighting over where the cases should be heard first.  
 A panel of federal judges in  Boise , Idaho, is hearing
arguments today on which city or cities will host spill suits,
including wrongful-death claims by families of  workers  killed in
the April explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig. Claims include
losses of revenue by Gulf Coast businesses and securities claims
by holders of U.S. shares in the London-based energy company.  
 The government wants the cases consolidated in New Orleans,
in the state where many of those damaged by the oil spill live.
BP prefers Houston, where BP has its U.S. headquarters.  
 New Orleans “is the best avenue for justice” for
thousands of spill victims thrown out of work,  Russ Herman , a
lawyer pushing to have the cases consolidated in that city, told
the  Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation . “The place
that has suffered the most impact deserves to have the scales
balanced.”  
 The judge tapped to preside over the BP cases will make
crucial rulings on what evidence can be used and which laws
applied when cases are sent back to their home courts for
trials.  
 Oil analyst  Fadel Gheit , at Oppenheimer & Co., estimated
today that the damage from the disaster may be as much as
$49 billion. BP faces at least 300 suits over the spill as it
works to permanently plug the Macondo well 40 miles off the
coast. Oil has fouled beaches and marshes in Louisiana,
Mississippi, Alabama, Texas and Florida.  
 Grouping Suits  
 “If we divide the case up,” how should the panel group
the suits, asked U.S. District Judge  John G. Heyburn II  of
Kentucky.  
 Claims over the deaths and injuries of workers on the Deep
Horizon rig should be separated from the other claims,  Daniel Becnel , a Louisiana-based lawyer, told Heyburn.  
 Other suits over loss of business revenue, environmental
damage and claims filed by investors could be placed in
different groups, Becnel added.  
 It’s particularly important to set up a separate track for
personal-injury claims “ so the widows and orphans” can have
their cases addressed first, said  Mark Lanier , a Houston-based
lawyer who urged the panel to collect the cases in his hometown.  
 New Orleans Backed  
 U.S. officials and many plaintiffs’ attorneys contend New
Orleans is the best site for consolidation, noting Louisiana is
the closest state to the spill site and has suffered the bulk of
environmental damage.  
 The government’s decision to line up behind New Orleans
doesn’t carry any more official weight than anybody else’s
recommendation, said  Adam Steinman , a law professor at  Seton
Hall University  who teaches complex litigation. It’s rare for
U.S. officials to express a preference, he said.  
 Putting the cases in Houston, home to BP’s U.S.
headquarters, would be a “cruel irony” for Louisiana victims,
 Stephen Herman , a lawyer for Louisiana residents suing over the
spill’s fallout, said in a May court filing.  
 Eight federal judges in New Orleans and surrounding courts
have recused themselves from spill cases because of potential
conflicts of interest, BP noted in court papers.  
 Company officials want the cases sent to U.S. District
Judge  Lynn Hughes  in Houston, according to court filings.  
 Disclosure Filings  
 The judge has lectured for an oilfield industry
professional group that pays his travel expenses, according to
filings obtained from the Judicial Watch website. The judge
declined by e-mail this year to discuss any potential conflicts
in the spill cases.  
 To address the conflict issue, some plaintiffs’ lawyers
suggested in court papers that U.S. District Judge  Shira Scheindlin  in New York, who has a background in environmental
litigation, go to New Orleans to oversee the litigation.  
 Others suggested a retired judge who could focus solely on
the spill cases without the burden of a regular caseload.  
 Perry Weitz , a Manhattan-based lawyer, told the panel today
that Scheindlin’s “organizational skills and management
skills” sets her apart from other judges.  
 “Why wouldn’t we find some of the outstanding judges in
Louisiana and Alabama instead of importing someone?”  Heyburn
asked. Weitz argued Scheindlin’s handling of other environmental
cases makes her uniquely qualified to oversee spill claims.  
 Judicial Conflicts  
 Heyburn asked whether judicial conflicts should compel the
panel to bring in a judge from outside the Gulf states.  
 “The entire country has watched this disaster 24/7,” said
 Elizabeth Cabraser , a San Francisco-based lawyer pushing for the
cases to be centralized in Mississippi. “They’ll be watching
the litigation. This case requires a jurist above reproach.”  
 Lawsuits were filed by commercial fishing interests,
beachfront-property owners and environmentalists claiming harm
from drifting oil. The parties have suggested courts in all five
states as a proper venue for the cases.  
 Different types of spill-related cases may be consolidated.
One group may involve economic loss and environmental damage
claims filed in federal courts in a dozen states. Most of those
cases also name as defendants  Transocean Ltd. ,  Halliburton
Energy Services  and  Cameron International Corp.   
 The other concentration of cases may include securities
lawsuits by BP investors claiming company executives hid the
rig’s safety problems and committed missteps that led to the
spill.  
 Impact on Shares  
 Plaintiffs in those cases allege the failure to disclose
problems with the well artificially inflated BP’s stock price.
 BP’s shares  have fallen 36 percent since the rig exploded in
April.  
 The seven-judge  panel , created in 1968, meets periodically
in locations around the country to decide whether lawsuits in
different federal districts have common factual questions that
can be decided once and apply to all cases.  
 The process is designed to streamline the exchange of
evidence and avoid duplication. Once pretrial proceedings are
completed, the individual cases are sent back for trial in the
courts where they were first filed.  
 The judges on the panel are appointed by the chief justice
of the U.S. Supreme Court.  
 The main MDL case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
“Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
MDL Docket No. 2179.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Boise, Idaho,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       BP faces at least 300 suits over the spill  
                       
                         
                           U.S. District Court via Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. district judge in Manhattan Shira Scheindlin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. district judge in Manhattan Shira Scheindlin. Source: U.S. District Court via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
