-- BP Oil Leak Avoids Florida, as Do Tourists Who Think Otherwise
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-07-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bp-oil-leak-avoids-florida-as-do-tourists-who-think-otherwise.html

          
          
             Last month, Erin Duggan received an
e-mail from a man in Canada who said he was “devastated” that
the beaches of Sarasota, Florida, were polluted with oil and its
air full of toxins.  
 “I had to write him back saying that I’ve been taking my
newborn down to the beach every night,” said Duggan, a
spokeswoman for the Sarasota Convention & Visitors Bureau. “The
perception has been horrible.”  
 The millions of gallons of crude that have poured into the
Gulf of Mexico from  BP Plc’s  ruptured well have largely stayed
away from Florida’s beaches, including Sarasota’s. The trouble,
Florida officials say, is that tourists have been staying away
too, scared off by television and newspaper images of oil-
tainted waters in Louisiana and elsewhere along the coast.  
 “The oil is hundreds and hundreds of miles away,” U.S.
Representative  Kathy Castor , a Florida Democrat whose district
includes Tampa, said this week at a Washington hearing on the
spill’s impact. “Yet the word has gone out all across the
globe” that “the Florida beaches are damaged.”  
 Only four counties have reported crude on their beaches,
said Kathy Torian, a spokeswoman from Visit Florida, the state’s
official marketing arm. All of the beaches touched by the oil
are in the state’s northwestern Panhandle, and represent a
fraction of the Florida’s 1,260 miles of coastline.  
 Obamas to Visit  
 First Lady Michelle Obama praised the “gorgeous” beaches
of Pensacola, a Panhandle city, during a visit there two weeks
ago, and the president and his family plan to spend a weekend on
Florida’s Gulf coast next month.  
 Yet in a survey last month of 1,286 “active travelers,”
10 percent said the spill made it less likely they would visit
the state, according to Visit Florida.  
 “Within 24 to 48 hours after the Deepwater Horizon spill
our call volume basically dropped to nothing,” said Gregg
Nicklaus, owner of Sirata Beach Resort and Conference Center, a
382-room hotel in St. Petersburg. Revenue at the hotel fell 25
percent in May from a year earlier and was down 10 percent last
month, he said in an interview.  
 A drop in visitors is bad news in Florida, where tourism is
the No. 1 industry, generating $60 billion in annual revenue,
according to Visit Florida. One out of every 19 Floridians works
in tourism, and about a fifth of the state’s sales taxes come
from the industry, Torian said.  
 Most Claims  
 Florida’s claims for spill damage are surpassing those from
other Gulf States that have suffered more direct physical
damage, BP says. Florida filed 32,762 claims through last week,
topping No. 2 Louisiana by more than two thousand, said  Scott Dean , a spokesman for the company.  
 Because of Florida’s heavier dependence on beach tourism,
it will take the biggest hit in dollars from the spill, a study
commissioned by the  U.S. Travel Association  found.  
 The state will lose $7.6 billion, a 13 percent decline, if
the accident’s impact lasts 15 months and $18.6 billion, a drop
of 14 percent, if it lingers for 36 months, according to the
 study  by Oxford Economics, a U.K. economics firm. The percentage
declines will be greater for Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama,
Oxford Economics said.  
 Determining how much hotels or restaurants on undamaged
beaches are suffering will fall to  Kenneth Feinberg , the
Washington attorney tapped by BP and the Obama administration to
decide on private spill claims. He will draw on a $20 billion
fund from BP, starting next month.  
 Help From BP  
 “You do not need oil on the beach to have a compensable
claim,” Feinberg told the House panel.  
 To offset some of the damage, BP gave Florida a $25 million
grant for an advertising campaign to entice wary vacationers to
visit. BP also sent the state $50 million in block grants to pay
for spill-mitigation efforts.  
 In a June 30 letter to BP, Governor  Charlie Crist  requested
an additional $50 million to promote tourism, saying that state
beaches were “open for business.”  
 Doug Suttles , chief operating officer for exploration and
production at BP America, wrote back July 12 to deny the
request.  
 “As you say, the majority of the Florida coast remains
clean and open for business,” Suttles wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tourist walk past globs of oil that is seen after it washed up on Pensacola Beach, Florida. Photographer: Joe Raedle/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
