-- BP's Dudley Targets Riskiest Deepwater Drilling After $32 Billion Blowout
-- Stanley Reed
-- 2010-07-29T05:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bp-s-dudley-targets-riskiest-deepwater-drilling-after-32-billion-blowout.html

          
          
             Robert Dudley , the man charged with
rebuilding the reputation of BP Plc after the disastrous oil
spill in the Gulf of Mexico, will slim the company to its core
strength: the high-risk, high-return search for oil and gas in
demanding environments.  
 That suggests Dudley, who becomes the first American chief
executive officer of the British oil giant on Oct. 1, will
follow the same strategy that led to the Gulf spill and turned
outgoing CEO  Tony Hayward  into a pariah, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Aug. 2 issue.  
 “The key to this industry is replacing  earnings , and BP
thinks they know how to do that in deep water,” said J.
 Robinson West , chairman of consultant PFC Energy in Washington.  
 Indications that BP will stick with deepwater drilling are
in the assets it’s put up for sale to raise cash to reassure
financial markets of its viability and to pay bills for the
spill that could reach $30 billion. What’s on the block are
mostly old onshore or shallow-water fields such as Alaska’s
 Prudhoe Bay , where output is declining. The sales will heighten
BP’s dependence on deepwater fields, which already account for
about 18 percent of its output.  
 Dudley surprised investors with plans to sell up to $30
billion in production assets -- triple the level company
executives said in May they would divest -- after reporting a
record $17.2 billion loss for the second quarter on July 27.
BP’s oil-and-gas production will fall from 3.8 million barrels
per day to about 3.5 million.  
 Apache Pays Premium  
 BP got a premium when Apache Corp. agreed to pay $7 billion
for fields in Canada, Texas and Egypt on July 20. This first
sale of assets constituted about 2 percent of  production .
Hayward said that deal effectively valued BP’s total
exploration-and-production business at $350 billion --almost
three times the company’s depressed $119 billion market
capitalization.  
 Stripped of its plain-vanilla oil fields, BP will be closer
to what Wall Street analysts have long wanted it to be: An
aggressive exploration company dependent on big finds in deep
water, such as off the coast of West Africa, Louisiana and
Texas.  
 BP needs to stabilize its key U.S. business as the Gulf
accounts for 11 percent of its production and the oil it
extracts there is among its most profitable.  
 Mississippi Childhood  
 Dudley, 54, won respect for the coolness he displayed under
fire in  Russia  as head of BP’s joint venture, TNK-BP. BP’s
Russian partners called for Dudley’s dismissal in 2008 in a
dispute over strategy at Russia’s third-biggest oil company. He
eventually left the country, citing “sustained harassment”
amid court battles and labor and tax inspections.  
 He got the nod to lead the entire company at least in part
to placate U.S. politicians and dissuade them from barring BP
from drilling in American waters. BP is the biggest operator in
the Gulf’s deepest waters, and its future depends on being able
to hold on to its position there.  
 “It’s not our intention to exit the U.S., nor do we
believe we won’t be able to operate there,” he said on July 27.  
 Dudley, who grew up in nearby Hattiesburg, Mississippi, was
put in charge of the Gulf cleanup effort in June. He spent half
of his career at Amoco Corp. before it was acquired by BP in
1998.  
 So far other countries with deepwater reserves, such as
Angola and Egypt, have refrained from restricting BP. Dependent
as they are on oil and gas revenue, these states don’t want to
reject a major source of  cash .  
 Dudley even sees an upside for BP, which he said could wind
up with “higher-quality assets and growth” from its reliance
on higher-risk exploration.  
 “In the years to come they certainly have the potential to
have higher profitability on a per-barrel basis,” said  Gianna 
Bern, a principal at Brookshire Advisory & Research.  
 Still, that future depends on whether Dudley, unlike
Hayward before him, fulfills a pledge to strengthen BP’s safety
program. “There is no room for error here,” says Oppenheimer
& Co. analyst  Fadel Gheit .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stanley Reed  in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc, left, Carl-Henric Svanberg, chairman of BP Plc, center, and Robert Dudley, incoming chief executive officer of BP Plc. Photographer Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 27 (Bloomberg) -- BP Plc Chairman Carl-Henric Svanberg and newly-named Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley talk with reporters about the company's outlook in the wake of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Outgoing CEO Tony Hayward appeared at the briefing today in London but did not speak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
