-- BP Said Negligence May Be Found in Cause of Oil Spill, Texas Letter Shows
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-29T00:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bp-said-negligence-may-be-found-in-cause-of-oil-spill-texas-letter-shows.html

          
          
             A  BP Plc  lawyer said evidence would
show that an April explosion and oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico
were the result of gross negligence, Texas officials said in a
letter that didn’t say who committed the alleged negligence.  
 Governor  Rick Perry  and Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said
in the July 22 letter that BP didn’t attempt to take advantage
of a cap on damages under the Oil Pollution Act because gross
negligence would make that irrelevant. The letter was addressed
to Doug Suttles, chief operating officer for exploration and
production, and Jack Lynch, a general counsel.  
 “During a conference call with Gulf Coast attorneys
general, BP General Counsel Jack Lynch acknowledged that gross
negligence would be revealed as a cause of the explosion that
led to the oil spill,” Perry and Abbott wrote.  
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , which owns 25 percent of the
damaged Macondo well that gushed oil into the Gulf, hasn’t paid
London-based BP for spill-related costs. The company said in
June that BP’s actions “likely represent gross negligence or
willful misconduct.” A unit of Mitsui Oil Exploration Co.,
which has a 10 percent stake in the well, also has withheld
reimbursement.  
 Anadarko has said gross negligence or willful misconduct
would affect the parties’ obligations under the operating
agreement. BP has a 65 percent stake and is the operator of the
well.  
 Seeking Money  
 BP Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward, who will be
replaced on Oct. 1 by  Robert Dudley , has said BP will
“vigorously” pursue its partners on the well for costs. BP
didn’t immediately respond to requests to comment on the letter
or to make Lynch available for an interview.  
 BP Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television this week the company doesn’t believe it
will be found grossly negligent or will be the sole responsible
party, citing information learned from public hearings.  
 Spokesmen for Anadarko and a unit of Mitsui Oil declined to
comment. Mitsui Oil is 70 percent-owned by Japan’s second-
biggest trading house,  Mitsui & Co.   
 The Texas governor’s office confirmed the authenticity of
the letter, part of the state’s attempt to collect $25 million
from BP for spill-related costs.  
 Transocean Ltd. , which leased to BP the Deepwater Horizon
rig that caught fire April 20, and  Halliburton Co. , which
provided cementing on the project, declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        