-- Brazil's Lula is Ignoring Rebel Threat in Venezuela, Colombia's Uribe Says
-- Andre Soliani
-- 2010-07-29T18:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/brazil-s-lula-is-ignoring-rebel-threat-in-venezuela-colombia-s-uribe-says.html

          
          
             Colombian President  Alvaro Uribe 
said that Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva is
ignoring the security threat that the presence of Marxist rebels
in Venezuelan territory represents for his country.  
 Uribe’s accusation came as foreign ministers were set to
gather at an emergency meeting of the Union of South American
Nations in Quito, Ecuador today to resolve a dispute between
Venezuela and the U.S.-allied Colombia.  
 Uribe,  in a statement  sent by his office, said he regrets
that Lula is also overlooking his government’s efforts to seek
dialogue with its neighbor. He said Lula is treating Colombia’s
claims that Venezuela is harboring members of the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, and National Liberation Army,
or ELN, as if the controversy were a clash of personalities.  
 “With all respect we repeat to President Lula and the
government of Brazil that the only solution Colombia will accept
is that the presence of FARC and ELN terrorists on Venezuelan
territory should not be permitted,” said the statement.  
 Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  last week severed ties
with Colombia after Uribe’s government presented photos and
satellite images that it said pointed to the presence of 1,500
guerrillas inside his country.  
 Chavez denied the charges, presented to the Washington-
based Organization of American States, and claimed instead the
accusations were a prelude to an invasion by the U.S. using its
ally Colombia as a proxy.  
 Lula said on July 23 that timing of Colombia’s accusations,
as Uribe is set to hand power to President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos  on Aug. 7, seemed “awkward.”  
 “I haven’t seen any conflict--I’ve seen a verbal
conflict,” Lula told reporters yesterday, adding that he would
discuss the regional crisis with Santos, Uribe and Chavez during
a visit to Bogota and Caracas next week.  
 Brazil’s presidential spokesman  Marcelo Baumbach  said it
was not appropriate for Lula to respond to Uribe’s comments. He
said today’s Unasur summit can help foster dialogue in the
region.  
 FARC Ties  
 Opposition presidential candidate  Jose Serra  has said
Lula’s Workers’ Party has ties to the FARC, and Serra’s running
mate Indio da Costa said the party has links to drug
trafficking.  
 “Everyone one knows the Workers Party is linked to the
FARC, linked to drug trafficking, linked to the worst
elements,” Costa said in an interview July 16.  
 Venezuela has repeatedly clashed with Colombia over claims
it is providing weapons and funneling money to the FARC.
Relations soured and trade plunged after Uribe last year
decided to allow the U.S. military to increase its presence in
Colombia, the recipient of more than $7 billion, leading to a
freeze in relations and a plunge in trade.  
 Exports from South America’s fourth-biggest economy to
Venezuela declined 71 percent in the first five months of 2010
from the same period a year earlier. Before relations soured,
Venezuela was Colombia’s biggest export market after the U.S.  
 While Chavez denies giving the FARC support, he has
repeatedly called on the European Union and other governments to
stop classifying the group as terrorists.  
 Santos after being elected last month invited Chavez to
attend his inauguration and tapped Uribe’s former ambassador to
the country,  Maria Angela Holguin , as foreign minister in a bid
to improve relations with the country.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        