-- Slowdown in Brazil Economy is Helping Fight Inflation, Central Bank Says
-- Andre Soliani
-- 2010-07-29T15:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/brazilian-growth-may-have-slowed-to-sustainable-level-central-bank-says.html

          
          
             Brazil’s central bank said economic
growth may have slowed to sustainable levels since the start of
the year, helping to contain inflation risks.  
 A slowing Chinese economy and doubts about the strength of
the U.S. recovery are helping to fight inflation that’s been
above the government’s 4.5 percent target since January, the
bank said today in the  minutes  of its July 20-21 meeting.  
 A drop in the  inflation rate  and evidence Latin America’s
biggest economy is slowing prompted the central bank to reduce
the pace of interest rate increases last week. Policy makers
increased the Selic rate by 50 basis points to 10.75 percent,
surprising 48 of 51 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who expected
at third straight 75 basis-point increase.  
 “The economy may have settled into a pace that is more in
line with growth levels considered sustainable in the long term,
as opposed to what was seen in the first quarter,” the bank
said. “Available information confirms there was a worsening in
the inflation dynamic at the start of 2010 but, on the other
hand, a sharp improvement on the margin” since June.  
 The yield on the interest rate futures contract due in
January, the most traded on Sao Paulo’s BM&F exchange, fell one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 10.82 percent at 11:48
a.m. New York time. The real gained 0.2 percent to 1.7661 per
U.S. dollar from 1.7690 yesterday.  
 Monetary Policy  
 Policy makers said there is consensus on the board about
the need to adjust future monetary policy decisions to the
inflationary outlook, which has improved since their June
meeting.  
 “The minutes pave the way to an upcoming pause in the
hiking cycle,”  Marcelo Carvalho , head of the Latin American
economic research at BNP Paribas in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview.  
 Carvalho, who previously predicted that policy makers would
raise rates by 50 basis points in September, now expects the
Selic to remain unchanged at 10.75 percent.  
 Policy makers’ focus on China has risen as the world’s
third-largest economy boosts imports from Brazil.  
 After surpassing the U.S. as Brazil’s largest export market
in 2009, China bought 15 percent of the $89 billion exported by
Latin America’s No. 1 economy in the first half of 2010.  
 China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from 11.9 percent in the preceding three months,
the statistics bureau said July 15 as industrial output cooled
more than forecast. China’s imports have surged, leading to its
first monthly trade gap in six years in March, as rising
domestic demand helps the global economy recover.  
 Resume Tightening  
 Traders are betting that policy makers will increase the
overnight rate by 19 basis points in September, according to
Bloomberg estimates based on interest-rate futures contract.  
 Given that the central bank raises rates by increments of
25 basis points, traders are split on whether the bank will
pause or raise the Selic to 11 percent in their next meeting.  
 Consumer prices dropped in the month through mid-June for
the first time in four years while  retail sales  and industrial
 production  missed forecasts in May.  
 After the July 20-21 decision, Itau Unibanco Holding SA,
Latin America’s biggest bank by market value, said the central
bank is likely to keep the Selic unchanged for the remainder of
the year. It will resume tightening in early 2011 as growth
quickens later this year,  Ilan Goldfajn , chief economist at the
Sao Paulo-based bank, wrote in a July 21 e-mailed report.  
 Slower Growth  
 Economists forecast the Selic will jump to 11.75 by year-
end, a central bank  survey  of 100 analysts published this week
shows. The economy will expand this year by 7.2 percent, the
fastest pace in more than two decades, the survey shows.  
 Brazil’s economic expansion will decelerate from its 9
percent pace in the first quarter after the government withdrew
stimulus tax breaks and cut spending, and the central bank in
April began to increase the benchmark rate from a record 8.75
percent low, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an interview
last week.  
 Gross domestic product will grow 0.5 percent to 1 percent
in the second quarter from the first three months of the year,
Mantega said.  
 The central bank’s seasonally adjusted economic activity
index fell in May for the first time since 2009 to 139.55 points
from 139.55 points in April.  
 “The minutes gave a clear sign that either the tightening
cycle is over or policy makers will raise rates by only a bit in
September before pausing,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at
Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo.  
 To be sure, unemployment fell in June to 7 percent, from
7.5 percent in May, the second-lowest rate on record. The
creation of government-registered jobs in June hit the highest
for the month since 2008, though the number was below analysts’
estimates.  
 The central bank’s inflation forecast for 2011 still
remains above target should interest rates remain unchanged,
according to the minutes.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani Costa  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        