-- British Banks Approve Fewer Mortgages Than Forecast as Demand Diminishes
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-07-29T09:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/british-banks-approve-fewer-mortgages-than-forecast-in-june-on-confidence.html

          
          
             U.K. banks approved fewer  mortgages 
than economists forecast in June as tighter lending conditions
and weaker confidence curbed housing demand.  
 Lenders granted 47,643 loans to buy homes, compared with
49,461 in May, the Bank of England said today in London. That’s
the lowest in four months and below the 48,800 median forecast
of 18 economists in Bloomberg News survey.  
 The U.K. housing recovery has shown signs of losing steam
as consumers brace themselves for the government’s budget
squeeze to reduce the record deficit. Nationwide Building
Society said today that  house prices  fell in July for the first
time in five months and Hometrack Ltd. said this week that the
market is at a “turning point.”  
 Recent data “are basically saying the party is over for
the U.K. housing market,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at BNP
Paribas in London. With the tightening in fiscal policy and
planned public-sector job cuts, “one can understand why
households are not falling over themselves to go out and move
house,” he said.  
 The pound was little changed against the dollar after the
report and was up 0.3 percent from yesterday to $1.5647 as of
10:32 a.m. in London.  
 Inflation  
 Net mortgage lending was 665 million pounds ($1.04 billion)
in June, compared with 838 million pounds in May, the Bank of
England said. Gross home loans totalled 11.5 billion pounds.  
 “The gradual improvement in credit conditions that was
evident earlier in the year seems to have come to a halt in
recent months,” Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  told
lawmakers yesterday.  
 Consumers reduced their unsecured debts by 98 million
pounds in June as net lending on personal loans and overdrafts
dropped by 244 million pounds, the central bank said. Net
credit-card spending rose 146 million pounds.  
 It also said that a measure of  M4 money supply  that it uses
to assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases fell in June.
The rate of growth eased to an annualized 6 percent in the three
months through June, the weakest since March, from 8.9 percent.  
 The gauge excludes financial companies that specialize in
intermediating between banks, such as holding companies and non-
bank credit grantors.  
 Interest-Rate Debate  
 Today’s report adds to evidence that the housing-market
recovery is fading as policy makers debate the timing of
interest-rate increases. Nationwide, the U.K.’s biggest
customer-owned lender, said today that home prices fell 0.5
percent this month to 169,347 pounds. The lender’s gauge of
 consumer confidence  fell to the lowest in a year in June.  
 Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  has voted
twice in the last two months for the central bank to begin
raising its benchmark interest rate to guard against
“resilient”  inflation . Others, including King, say economic
growth may be hampered by the domestic budget cuts and the debt
crisis in the euro area, Britain’s biggest export market.  
 “There must be a sense that the rally in house prices that
we’ve seen over the last year was built on some pretty shaky
foundations,” said  Ed Stansfield , chief property economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. “The market is extremely vulnerable to
falling back over the remainder of this year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        