-- Brooke Astor's Son Marshall Loses Bid to Void Conviction for Cheating Her
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-07-29T17:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/brooke-astor-s-son-marshall-loses-bid-to-void-conviction-for-cheating-her.html

          
          
             Anthony Marshall  was justly
convicted of defrauding his mother, the late New York
philanthropist and socialite  Brooke Astor , the trial judge
ruled, rejecting his argument that the jury was tainted.  
 Justice  A. Kirke Bartley Jr.  of state Supreme Court in
Manhattan today upheld the October conviction of Marshall for
grand larceny and other charges. Marshall had his mother, who
died in 2007 at the age of 105, change her will while she was
incompetent, according to prosecutors.  
 Marshall, 86, asked the judge to throw out the conviction,
contending he was denied his right to trial by an impartial
jury. One juror, Judith DeMarco, a Bloomberg LP employee,
allegedly said she had been pressured into convicting Marshall
and his co-defendant  Francis Morrissey  due to intimidation by
another juror, according to the judge’s decision.  
 Bartley wrote in his 22-page ruling that the lack of sworn
statements from DeMarco and the other jurors as well as
DeMarco’s conduct after the verdict “all lead to the inevitable
conclusion that her verdict was not a product of force or
coercion and that the defendants received a trial by a fair and
impartial jury.”  
 The judge said he took into account that DeMarco supported
the verdict in an Oct. 9 Bloomberg News story, saying that she
felt like she did “the right thing.”  
 ‘Simple Fact’  
 “The simple fact remains that she was, given her own
statement to her employer’s news agency, able to set aside her
feelings and come to a decision based on the evidence and in
accordance with her oath,” Bartley wrote.  
 Bartley sentenced Marshall to one to three years in jail
for acts that included his giving himself a $1 million raise for
managing Astor’s money. He is free on bail pending an appeal.  
 “We believe we have good grounds for reversal of the
court’s decision and intend to appeal,” Marshall’s attorney,
 John Cuti , said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 DeMarco didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  
 Bartley also upheld the verdict against Morrissey,
convicted of forging Astor’s name on an amendment to her will.
His attorney,  Thomas Puccio , couldn’t be reached for comment.  
 The case is People v. Marshall, 06044-2007, New York
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        