-- BSkyB Said to Have Agreed on Five-Year Scorsese, Sopranos HBO Contract
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-29T17:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bskyb-said-to-have-agreed-on-five-year-scorsese-sopranos-hbo-contract.html

          
          
             British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc 
agreed to enter a five-year deal with  Time Warner Inc.  to show
all new HBO television programs in the U.K., according to three
people with direct knowledge of the contract.  
 The price will depend on the amount of programming produced
during the period, the people said, declining to be identified
because the agreement isn’t public. BSkyB will pay HBO at least
a low double-digit million-pound figure a year, one of the
people said. Another person said the total five-year deal could
potentially approach 150 million pounds ($234 million).  
 BSkyB said today it entered a multi-year agreement with the
U.S.-based pay-television service, without giving terms of the
contract.  
 The deal will enable BSkyB, the U.K.’s largest pay-TV
operator, to show new programs including director  Martin Scorsese’s  “Boardwalk Empire.” BSkyB will also show older
shows including “The Sopranos” and “Sex and the City” when
the contracts with other broadcasters end.  
 Spokespeople for BSkyB and HBO declined to comment on the
financial terms of the deal.  
 “It’s giving viewers great content that they can’t get
anywhere else,” BSkyB Chief Financial Officer  Andrew Griffith 
said today in a phone interview. “It’s not of itself something
that’s incremental, but it’s one of the many good ways we can
spend money on programming.”  
 BSkyB said today total annual costs for programming rose 9
percent to 1.9 billion pounds. The company is investing in
content to attract viewers and said today it added 90,000 net
new customers in the fiscal fourth quarter. BSkyB will start a
3-D television channel in October.  
 BSkyB has the right to co-produce HBO productions in the
U.K., according to a statement from the company today.  
 The companies aren’t planning to produce any joint shows
imminently and HBO makes most of its programs in-house, Charles
Schreger, President of Programming Sales at HBO said in an
interview. Still, “the overwhelming home for HBO content is
going to be Sky.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        