-- BSkyB Full-Year Operating Profit Advances on Growth of High-Definition TV
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-29T08:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bskyb-full-year-operating-profit-advances-on-growth-of-high-definition-tv.html

          
          
             British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc ,
which rejected News Corp.’s proposed bid for full ownership last
month, said annual adjusted operating profit rose 10 percent as
more clients signed up for high-definition television service.  
 Earnings before interest, taxes and exceptional items in
the year ended June 30 increased to 855 million pounds ($1.34
billion) from 780 million pounds a year earlier, slightly ahead
of analysts’ average  estimate  of 852.9 million pounds. Sales
rose 10 percent to 5.9 million pounds, the Isleworth, England-
based company said in a statement.  
 “It’s been a very strong quarter for high definition,”
Chief Executive Officer  Jeremy Darroch  said on a conference
call. “It’s establishing itself as the new standard for
television, especially for sports and movies.”  
 BSkyB in June rejected a 7.8 billion-pound offer from
 Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. for the 61 percent of the U.K.’s
biggest pay-TV operator it doesn’t already own. BSkyB spurned
the 700 pence a share bid and said it wanted at least 800 pence.
 Investors  said Murdoch’s bid doesn’t reflect the company’s
increasing cash flow after investment in football rights, U.S.
films and high-definition content.  
 BSkyB’s independent directors, led by  Nicholas Ferguson ,
chairman of SVG Capital, said they may accept an offer of more
than 800 pence a share. There is a “significant gap” between
News Corp.’s proposal and the company’s value, Ferguson said
last month.  
 HBO Deal  
 The company said today it signed an agreement with Time
Warner Inc.’s HBO pay-TV service to exclusively show all new HBO
series including director  Martin Scorsese’s  “Boardwalk Empire”
show. Financial terms weren’t disclosed. Total costs for
programming and content rose 9 percent to 1.9 billion pounds.  
 BSkyB shares dropped 0.6 percent to 715.5 pence at 9:53
a.m. in London trading.  
 Growth in high-definition services may “pause for
breath,” Darroch said. About 30 percent of subscribers have
taken the high-definition service so far, he said.  
 BSkyB, which has 9.86 million customers, is aiming for 10
million by the end of 2010. The company attracted viewers to
high-definition services after cutting installation prices for
set-top boxes.  
 Full-year free cash flow, excluding the company’s
settlement with EDS, advanced 23 percent from a year earlier to
626 million pounds, after rising 17 percent in the nine months
ended March 31. The company added 90,000 net new customers in
the fiscal fourth quarter, and a net 429,000 of its customers
signed up for high-definition services.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Griffith, chief financial officer of British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc, talks about full-year earnings and the outlook for subscriber growth.
     He speaks with Bloomberg's Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
