-- Budimex, Ferrovial Unit, Bets on Power, Rails as Poland's Boom Rumbles On
-- Pawel Kozlowski
-- 2010-07-29T12:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/budimex-ferrovial-unit-bets-on-power-rails-as-poland-s-boom-rumbles-on.html

          
          
             Budimex SA , the Polish unit of
Ferrovial SA, is seeking to expand into power and rail
construction projects to maintain earnings as record road
contracts begin drying up in central Europe’s biggest economy.  
 Earnings  will increase “on all levels” to records this
year as Poland speeds up road building ahead of the 2012
European soccer championships it will host with neighboring
Ukraine, Chief Executive Officer  Dariusz Blocher  said. Roads
made up 70 percent of Budimex’s 7.6 billion-zloty ($2.5 billion)
order book as of June.  
 “We need to look into the future and find new sources of
revenue once the large road contracts end,” Blocher said at a
news conference in Warsaw. “We will look at all power and rail-
building projects that will be available in Poland.”  
 Budimex, the second-largest Polish construction company,
and Spain’s Tecnicas Reunidas SA placed a joint bid to build a
generation unit at the Skawina gas-fired power plant in Poland,
owned by  CEZ AS , the largest Czech utility, Blocher said.
Budimex will bid to build a unit for Tauron Polska Energia SA’s
Jaworzno plant, with a value exceeding 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion), he said.  
 Power producers must invest 200 billion zloty through 2025
to upgrade and build new facilities to meet growing demand and
comply with European Union environmental regulations, according
to estimates by the Treasury Ministry, which controls the
country’s largest utilities.  
 In the rail-building business, Budimex is considering a
takeover of a domestic target to speed up expansion, Blocher
said. The company may buy PNI Sp. z o.o. if its owner, state
railway PKP, decides to sell, Blocher said.  
 Budimex  jumped 3.3 percent to 93.6 zloty at 1:38 p.m. in
Warsaw, the highest intraday level in almost two months, after
the company said first-half net income surged 68 percent to
126.6 million zloty. Revenue rose 14 percent to 1.72 billion
zloty.  
 The shares have surged 29 percent this year, compared with
a 4 percent gain in Warsaw’s benchmark WIG20 Index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        