-- Bunge Cuts 2010 Profit Forecast as Soybean Margins Shrink; Shares Plunge
-- Shruti Date Singh
-- 2010-07-29T20:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/bunge-cuts-annual-profit-forecast-as-soybean-margins-shrink-shares-slump.html

          
          
             Bunge Ltd. , the world’s second-
largest sugar trader, reduced its full-year earnings forecast
after soybean-processing margins shrank in the U.S. and South
America. The shares dropped the most in 21 months.  
 Profit excluding some one-time items will be $3.25 to $3.50
a share this year on lower second-quarter earnings, weaker
oilseed processing and restructuring in Brazil,  Jacqualyn Fouse ,
chief financial officer of the White Plains, New York-based
company, said today on a conference call with analysts. Bunge
had previously  forecast  earnings of $5.30 to $5.80, and analysts
had projected $5.25, the  average estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.  
 “The miss was broad-based across all segments, though
agribusiness, sugar, and fertilizer were the clear
underperformers,”  Vincent Andrews , a New York-based analyst at
Morgan Stanley, said in a report today.  
 Bunge said its oilseed margins were pressured as costs rose
with increased demand from China and slower-than-expected sales
from South American and European farmers. The company said in a
statement it expected more balanced supply and demand for
soybeans in the quarter given a record South American crop.  
 “We obviously have to deliver to our customers around the
world,” Chief Executive Officer  Alberto Weisser  said on the
conference call. “Slow farmer selling was a particular
challenge.”  
 Net Income  
 Second-quarter  net income  rose more than fivefold to $1.78
billion, or $11.15 a share, from $313 million, or $2.28, a year
earlier, the company said in the statement. Bunge closed the
sale of its Brazilian fertilizer business to Vale SA in May,
resulting in a gain of $1.9 billion, the company said. Second-
quarter revenue was little changed at $11 billion.  
 Bunge’s sugar mills produced less sweetener and ethanol per
unit of cane in the second quarter than they will in the rest of
the year because yields are typically lowest during the
beginning of the harvest in the Center-South of Brazil, the
company said.  
 The retail fertilizer business in Brazil was weaker than
expected partly because of competition pressuring margins and
lost sales opportunities, Bunge said.  
 Bunge  dropped  $7.68, or 14 percent, to $46.29 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest drop
since Oct. 2, 2008.  Bunge  has fallen 27 percent this year.  
 Cargill Inc. is the world’s largest sugar trader.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Date Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        