-- Calcium Supplements Raise Heart Attack Risk by 30% in Study of 11 Trials
-- Iona Craig
-- 2010-07-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/calcium-supplements-raise-heart-attack-risk-by-30-in-study-of-11-trials.html

          
          
             Patients who took calcium increased
their risk of a heart attack by about 30 percent, according to
researchers who said the use of dietary supplements for
preventing and treating osteoporosis should be reviewed.  
 In five studies with more than 8,000 patients, half of whom
were on calcium, the supplement users had 143 heart attacks
during the research compared with 111 for people on placebo,
scientists from New Zealand, the U.K. and the U.S. wrote today
in the  British Medical Journal . The risk was greatest when
calcium intake from food was above average, regardless of
patients’ age or sex, according to the analysis.  
 Calcium supplements are prescribed to reduce the risk of
fractures and to prevent and treat osteoporosis, a thinning of
the bones.  Previous  studies had found no increased risk of heart
attacks with higher calcium intake from food. The analysis
suggests that the extra hazard is associated with supplements,
the medical journal said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “For patients who are at risk of heart disease and also
suffering from osteoporosis, perhaps calcium supplementation
should not be recommended,”  Suzanne Steinbaum , director of
women and heart disease at the Heart & Vascular Institute of
Lenox Hill Hospital in New York and a spokeswoman for the
Dallas-based  American Heart Association , said in a telephone
interview.  
 Steinbaum wasn’t involved in the analysis, whose lead
author is Mark Bolland, a senior research fellow in the
Department of Medicine at the University of Auckland, in New
Zealand.  
 The researchers also found a link between the calcium
supplements and a higher chance of stroke or sudden death,
though they said those results weren’t statistically
significant.  
 Heart Attacks  
 The analysis covered data from 11 trials, involving a total
of almost 12,000 participants over age 40 on average, about half
of whom were taking calcium supplements. For five of the trials,
data were available on whether the patients had suffered heart
attacks.  
 Calcium is the most prevalent mineral in the body and is
found in dairy products and some green vegetables. The human
body uses the mineral to strengthen its skeleton, storing 99
percent of calcium in the bones and teeth.  
 The recommended daily calcium allowance in the U.K. is
1,300 milligrams for adults, according to the London-based Food
Standards Agency. Deficiencies are common in adults when the
process of bone breakdown starts to occur more often than bone
formation. Bone density can weaken, leading to osteoporosis.  
 Doctor’s Advice  
 “Patients with osteoporosis should generally not be
treated with calcium supplements, either alone or combined with
vitamin D, unless they are also receiving an effective treatment
for osteoporosis for a recognized indication,” John Cleland, a
professor of cardiology at the  University of Hull  in the U.K.,
and colleagues wrote in an  editorial  published along with the
analysis.  
 The researchers said they excluded from their analysis
studies that compared coadministered calcium and vitamin D
supplements with placebo. The findings may not be applicable to
those supplements, the authors wrote.  
 Osteoporosis affects an estimated 10 million Americans,
according to the Washington-based National Osteoporosis
Foundation. About 3 million people in the U.K. also have the
condition, according to National Osteoporosis Society, based in
Camerton, near Bath, England.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Iona Craig  in London at   icraig2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        