-- California Democrats Propose Raising Income Tax to Plug $19 Billion Gap
-- Christopher Palmeri
-- 2010-07-29T22:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/california-democrats-propose-increasing-income-tax-to-plug-budget-deficit.html

          
          
             California ’s Democratic leaders are
proposing a 1 percentage-point increase in the personal income-
tax rate to help close a $19.1 billion budget gap.  
 The increase would affect all taxpayers except those in the
highest tax bracket, according to  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat
and president of the state Senate. To make the income-tax change
more palatable to voters, the Democrats plan to simultaneously
lower California’s highest-in-the-nation sales tax by 2.5
percentage points.  
 Steinberg said the two moves together would still raise as
much as $3 billion and that the plan would be presented to a
joint budget committee of state Senate and Assembly members next
week. California’s legislative leaders have been meeting for the
past three weeks to discuss ways to close the deficit for the
fiscal year that began July 1. Unlike sales levies, taxpayers
can deduct state income taxes from their federal returns.  
 “The idea is to increase some taxes that are already
federally deductible and to allow taxpayers to take advantage of
that while lowering some taxes that are not federally
deductible,” Steinberg said in an interview.  
 Controller  John Chiang  said he may issue IOUs to state
creditors in August if a budget is not passed. Republican
Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  yesterday ordered more than
150,000 public workers to take three days of unpaid time off to
conserve cash.  
 Schwarzenegger spokesman Aaron McLear said the governor
hasn’t seen the Democrat’s current proposal and is inclined not
to support tax increases.  
 ‘Volatile Income Tax’  
 “Relying even more on the volatile income tax is not the
way to go,” McLear said in an interview.  
 The governor’s proposed budget involves $12.4 billion in
cuts, including the elimination of some health care and welfare
payments to the poor. Steinberg said the Democrats may support
half of those cuts, if the balance could be satisfied by tax
increases or borrowing.  
 California’s top individual income tax rate is 9.55
percent, although there is an additional 1 percent tax for
mental-health services on incomes in excess of $1 million. The
state has the  highest  sales tax in the U.S. at 8.25 percent,
according to the Washington-based Tax Foundation, a non-partisan
research group.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael B. Marois  in Sacramento, California,
at   mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at
   cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        