-- Cameron Denies Terror Comments Damaged Relations With Pakistan Government
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-07-29T16:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/cameron-denies-terror-comments-damaged-relations-with-pakistan-government.html

          
          
             David Cameron  defended his attack on
groups in Pakistan he accused of exporting terrorism as
diplomatic tensions threatened to overshadow his first visit to
India as U.K. prime minister.  
 Cameron said his remarks, made yesterday after a speech in
Bangalore, were aimed at people within Pakistan responsible for
terrorism rather than the government. Pakistan had taken steps
in recent years to fight terrorism, he said.  
 “I believe in speaking clearly and plainly on these
issues,” Cameron told a press conference in New Delhi after
talks with Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh . “There are
terror organizations in Pakistan that need to be cracked down on
and eliminated.”  
 Pakistan yesterday defended its record on fighting
terrorism after Cameron said “we cannot tolerate in any sense
the idea that this country is allowed to look both ways and is
able, in any way, to promote the export of terror, whether to
India or whether to Afghanistan or anywhere else in the world.”  
 Writing in the London-based Guardian newspaper, Pakistan’s
high commissioner to Britain, Wajid Shamsul Hasan, said the
comments risked “damaging the prospects of regional peace.”  
 Military documents published on the  Wikileaks website  this
week suggested Pakistan’s main intelligence agency, the Inter-
Services Intelligence Directorate, secretly aided the Taliban
and other militant groups the U.S. is trying to defeat in
Afghanistan.  
 Pakistan has said the 2008 terrorist attack on Mumbai,
India’s financial hub, was at least partly planned on its soil
and it has begun a secret trial of some members of Lakshar-e-
Taiba, formed to fight Indian rule in the disputed territory of
Kashmir.  
 “We want to have the strongest possible security
partnership with India and we will also continue to work with
the Pakistan government to make sure it does everything it can
to combat terrorist groups,” Cameron said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Bangalore, India, at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        