-- CBOE's Brodsky Says Options Exchange Can Expand Without a Merger Partner
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/cboe-s-brodsky-says-u-s-options-exchange-can-grow-without-merger-partner.html

          
          
             CBOE Holdings Inc. , operator of the
largest U.S. options exchange that went public last month, has
no need for a merger partner, Chief Executive Officer  William Brodsky  said.  
 “We’re not in need of someone else’s money,” Brodsky said
in a July 26 interview. “We’ve shown we can run ourselves as an
independent company, be profitable and produce a lot of cash.
Other exchanges were new at managing themselves as for-profit
companies” when they made initial public offerings, he said.
Chicago-based CBOE has been a for-profit exchange since 2006.  
 CBOE sold shares on June 14 at a price that was 53 percent
more expensive than NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG after
exchange operators saw at least $61 billion of acquisitions
since 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Nymex Holdings
Inc., CBOT Holdings Inc. and International Securities Exchange
Holdings Inc., which went public in 2005 and 2006, were all
bought within three years of their IPOs after government
regulations boosted competition.  
 Chicago-based CBOE, which has a market value of $2.8
billion, closed at $27.15 yesterday, down 6.4 percent from $29,
the price of its initial public offering on June 14.  
 ‘Enticing Target’  
 CBOE is “likely an enticing target for larger exchanges,”
Macquarie Group Ltd. analyst  Ed Ditmire , who has an
“outperform” rating on the stock, said in a July 26 report.
Ditmire estimates the shares may rally to $33 within the next 12
months. CME is the U.S. largest exchange with a market value of
$18.6 billion, followed by NYSE Euronext’s $7.5 billion and
Nasdaq OMX Group’s $4 billion.  
 The company plans to expand its volatility trading and
derivatives business as the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission considers rules that, if approved, could shrink
options revenue for CBOE and other venue operators. U.S. trading
volume has increased almost fivefold in the past decade,
according to data from Chicago-based Options Clearing Corp.  
 CBOE will extend the franchise based on its proprietary
Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or  VIX , a
benchmark measure of expectations about volatility known as the
“fear gauge,” to other products via licensing agreements,
Brodsky said. VIX options traded about 30 million contracts in
the first half of this year, compared with less than 12 million
a year earlier, OCC data showed.  Futures  on the VIX traded 1.7
million contracts in the first half of 2010, outpacing last
year’s total 1.2 million contracts, according to CBOE.  
 ‘VIX-Like Products’  
 “In some places CBOE is better known by VIX than by our
own name,” Brodsky said. “There will be other VIX-like
products that we hope will trade in different countries and on
different exchanges. That will add to our profitability over
time.”  
 CME Group Inc., the world’s largest futures exchange, is
licensing the VIX methodology from CBOE to create volatility
indexes in commodities including corn and crude oil, CBOE said
in March. Through a licensing and marketing deal with Standard &
Poor’s, a unit of  McGraw-Hill Cos. , CBOE has agreements with
Euronext in Paris, Taiwan Futures Exchange, India’s National
Stock Exchange and the Australian Stock Exchange to apply the
VIX methodology to products on those markets. Euronext is owned
by New York-based  NYSE Euronext .  
 Options Growth  
 Brodsky said growth in options trading may accelerate as
firms shift to trading on exchanges rather than over the 
counter. Volume in index products that trade only on CBOE could 
also rise, he said. The company has exclusive licenses for
options on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, S&P 100 and Dow
Jones Industrial Average.  
 Index options account for a quarter of CBOE’s volume, with
fees from those trades providing about 45 percent of operating
earnings,  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, wrote in a note July 26. An Illinois circuit court
earlier this month upheld CBOE’s exclusive licensing agreements
with the owners of the S&P 500 and the Dow, preventing the ISE
from listing or trading options on the gauges. ISE is owned by
Frankfurt-based Eurex.  
 CBOE plans to introduce a second, electronic platform
called C2 to trade options later this year with its matching
engines in Secaucus, New Jersey, to appeal to high-frequency
trading firms that execute orders in millionths of a second.
CBOE’s new venue will “bring its biggest revenue producer, S&P
500 options, into the electronic age,” Ditmire said in his
report. The contract currently trades only on the CBOE’s Chicago
floor. “We expect C2 to increase CBOE’s market share and the
appeal of S&P 500 options,” he said.  
 ‘Consolidation Wave’  
 The company may face competition for its index products
from options on  exchange-traded funds , which are traded on all
exchanges, said  Roger Freeman , an analyst at Barclays Plc in New
York, in a July 26 report. Freeman, who has an “equal weight”
rating on the stock and expects CBOE to trade around $27 in the
next 12 months, also said the “consolidation wave” among
exchanges of the last decade is dissipating.  
 Eleven out of 15 analysts  tracked  by Bloomberg have a
“hold” rating on CBOE, with three recommending investors buy
the stock. Ticonderoga Securities, which suggests the shares be
sold, expects CBOE may decline to $24.50 in the next year. CBOE
competes with seven exchanges for options on stocks and ETFs.  
 As CBOE expands, the SEC may introduce rules that would
reduce profitability on some options contracts. The regulator in
April  proposed  capping fees exchanges charge at 30 cents a
contract to make the prices investors see from multiple markets
comparable. The cap would also apply to contracts listed on a
single exchange such as CBOE that may pay license fees to trade
index-based products.  
 ‘Rate-Making Business’  
 In the proposal, the SEC said a cap could shrink CBOE’s
$314.5 million in annual revenue from transaction fees by $23.9
million, or 7.6 percent. CBOE, whose own calculations showed a
potential loss of $14.2 million, said the restriction would harm
competition between exchanges and impair its business from
products used by individual investors and asset managers.  
 CBOE wrote a  42-page letter  to the SEC criticizing the rule
and Brodsky held meetings to discuss regulatory concerns with
four of the five commissioners including SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and executives in the trading and markets division,
which writes the rules governing the marketplace.  
 “The SEC shouldn’t get into the rate-making business,”
Brodsky said. Fee caps in equities “helped force” stock
exchanges to adopt a pricing model that pays people for
providing liquidity and charges those executing against orders
in the market, he said. Regulators shouldn’t push the market
toward a single business model, he said.  
 The SEC in September also proposed  banning  flash orders in
equities and options, which the agency and NYSE Euronext said
could create two-tiered markets. Supporters of the orders,
including discount brokers, said the mechanism in options allows
investors to reduce the fees they would be obliged to pay on
some markets.  
 “Flash in options came up because Senator  Charles Schumer 
raised it in the context of New York Stock Exchange and its
competition with others,” Brodsky said of the Democrat from New
York. “Just because the SEC did something in stocks doesn’t
mean that should automatically apply in options,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     William Brodsky, chairman and chief executive officer of the Chicago Board Options Exchange. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
