-- Chalco Shares Suspended Ahead of Deal With Rio on Guinea Iron Ore Project
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-29T01:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/chalco-shares-halted-as-parent-hosts-signing-ceremony-with-rio-tinto-today.html

          
          
             Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest producer of the metal, suspended its shares
from trading ahead of a signing ceremony today in Beijing that
will be attended by Rio Tinto Group.  
 Aluminum Corp.’s parent company, known as Chinalco,
announced the event without giving details of the agreement. Rio
will attend the ceremony starting at 3:30 p.m. local time,
according to an invitation seen by Bloomberg News.  
 Chinalco in March signed a non-binding accord to pay $1.35
billion for a stake in Rio Tinto’s Simandou iron ore project in
Guinea. The state-owned company is “watching closely” for
opportunities to invest in other projects abroad, including Oyu
Tolgoi, a Mongolian copper venture between Rio and Ivanhoe Mines
Ltd.,  Xiong Weiping , chairman of both Chinalco and Chalco, as
publicly traded Aluminum Corp. is known, said on March 29.  
 Chalco and Rio will sign an agreement for the development
of a large iron-ore mine in Guinea, the Shanghai Securities News
reported, without saying where it got the information.  
 Chinalco would fund the purchase of a 44.65 percent stake
in Simandou, described by Rio as the world’s “top” undeveloped
iron-ore deposit, by financing development over the next two to
three years, London-based Rio said March 19. Simandou has 2.25
billion metric tons of iron ore resources, Rio said on March 15.  
 Rio stated in March it had spent $600 million on
exploration and development of Simandou after saying in 2007
that it may invest at least $6 billion.  
 Rio is working to repair relations with Chinalco, its
largest shareholder, which were soured last year when Rio
scrapped a $19.5 billion investment by the Chinese company and
four Rio employees were arrested in Shanghai.  
 Chalco’s shares are expected to resume trading in Hong Kong
and Shanghai on July 30, the Beijing-based company said in a
statement. Rio rose 0.3 percent to A$71.23 at 10:45 a.m. in
Sydney.  David Luff , a Rio spokesman based in Melbourne, declined
to comment.  Yuan Li , head of communications with Chinalco, also
declined to comment on the signing ceremony.  
 -- Rebecca Keenan ,  Jesse Riseborough  and  Helen Yuan . Editors:
 Andrew Hobbs ,  Keith Gosman   
 To contact the Bloomberg staff responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        