-- Chalco Invests $1.35 Billion in Rio's Simandou Iron Ore Project in Guinea
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-29T17:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/chalco-to-invest-1-35-billion-in-rio-s-simandou-ore-project-in-guinea.html

          
          
             Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest producer of the metal, agreed to pay $1.35
billion for a stake in Rio Tinto Group’s Simandou iron ore
project in Guinea, making its first investment in the commodity.  
 Chalco, as the Beijing-based company is known, will acquire
a 44.65 percent stake by funding development over the next two
to three years, the companies said in a joint statement. Today’s
agreement follows an initial accord on the project in March with
Chinalco, Chalco’s state-owned parent.  
 Rio is working to repair relations with China,  its biggest
customer , after scrapping a $19.5 billion investment from
Chinalco last year. Chalco, facing a 12 percent drop in aluminum
prices, will benefit from tapping what London-based Rio has said
is the world’s top undeveloped iron ore deposit. The project
could be worth about $9.5 billion, according to UBS AG.  
 “Chalco delayed a share sale this year and the stock
performed badly,”  Owen Liang , a Shenzhen-based analyst at
Guotai Junan Securities Co., said by phone. “To raise funds,
the company needs to convince investors of profit growth. The
Simandou project will contribute substantially to profit after
it starts.”  
 Rio Tinto , whose  largest shareholder  is Chinalco, rose 0.7
percent to A$71.50 at the 4:10 p.m. close on the Australian
stock exchange. The London-traded stock  advanced  0.8 percent to
3,413.5 pence by 11:37 a.m. local time.  
 Biggest Overseas Investment  
 Rio’s interest in Simandou could be worth $2.89 per share,
UBS analysts led by London-based  Olivia Ker  said in a report
today. That’s not currently included in their valuation, they
said. Shares of  Chalco , down 22 percent this year in Hong Kong
trading, were suspended pending the announcement and are
expected to resume trading tomorrow.  
 Guinea, which has sought to take a 20 percent stake in part
of the project, doesn’t recognize the agreement between Rio and
the Chinese aluminum company,  Mahmoud Thiam , the country’s mines
minister, said in an interview in Conakry, the capital, today.
While approval isn’t a condition for the venture, Rio continues
to consult with the government, a Rio spokesman said today.  
 Chalco will work with other Chinese companies to jointly
develop the project including China Railway Construction Corp.
and China Communications Construction Group, it said in a
statement at today’s signing ceremony. Chalco officials couldn’t
be reached for further details.  
 Abandoned Custom  
 The deal will be Chalco’s biggest overseas investment after
it last month pulled a plan to develop an A$3 billion ($2.7
billion) bauxite project in Australia as market conditions
deteriorated. Bauxite is a raw material used in aluminum. In
February, the company agreed to jointly develop and operate a $1
billion smelter in Malaysia with GIIG Holdings Sdn.  
 “This project can also efficiently balance China’s need
for security of supply on the global iron ore market,”  Xiong Weiping , chairman of Chalco and Chinalco, said in the statement.  
 “The two sides will regard cooperation on the Simandou
project to be the foundation for further pushing forward the
cooperation of these two companies in other resource projects.”  
 Imports of iron ore  by China, the biggest buyer, jumped 42
percent last year to a record 628 million metric tons.  Vale SA ,
Rio Tinto and  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the biggest suppliers of the
steelmaking ingredient, this year abandoned a 40-year custom of
setting annual prices and raised rates twice as demand gained.  
 Delayed Share Sale  
 “The project will contribute roughly 4.5 billion yuan
($664 million) of profit a year, based on current iron ore
prices,” Guotai’s Liang said. “It will also reduce the pricing
power of the three biggest miners.”  
 Rio will retain a 50.35 percent stake after the investment
by Chalco, and a 5 percent stake is held by the International
Finance Corp. The  Guinean  government has an option to buy as
much as 20 percent of the project, and has “recently expressed
a willingness to exercise that option,” the statement said.  
 That will proportionally reduce the holdings of Rio, Chalco
and the IFC in the project, according to the statement.  
 Chalco, which posted a loss of 4.6 billion yuan in 2009,
was forced to delay a share sale earlier this year after an
equity market decline. The company is increasing capital
expenditure by 36 percent to 14.6 billion yuan, Xiong said on
March 30. The company returned to profit last quarter.  
 Aluminum futures in Shanghai have declined 12 percent this
year, and closed today at 15,385 yuan a ton. The average
production cost of Chinese aluminum smelters is 15,300 yuan a
ton, according to CRU International Ltd. Prices have dropped
below output costs, Chalco President  Luo Jianchuan  said in June.  
 Model for China  
 Rio’s Albanese said in March that the Simandou venture
could be a model for other Chinese outbound investment.
Companies in China, the biggest metal consumer, spent more than
$30 billion buying mines and oil deposits globally last year.  
 Mining will start within five years, Albanese said in
today’s statement. Rio had already spent $650 million on the
project, Chairman  Jan Du Plessis  said at a conference in Beijing
today.  
 The agreement helps to repair relations between Rio and
Chinalco that frayed after last year’s failed investment and the
arrest of four Rio employees in China. In March, the four Rio
workers were sentenced to jail for between 7 years and 14 years
for taking bribes and for infringement of commercial secrets.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in Melbourne at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Gavin Wendt, a senior analyst with MineLife Co. Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li from Sydney about Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.'s agreement to pay $1.35 billion for a stake in Rio Tinto Group's Simandou iron ore project in Guinea.
    Chalco, as the Beijing-based company is known, will acquire a 44.65 percent stake by funding development over the next two to three years, the companies said in a joint statement. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
