-- Cheung Kong Infrastructure Profit Falls After One-Time Gain Year Earlier
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-29T05:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/cheung-kong-infrastructure-profit-falls-after-one-time-gain-year-earlier.html

          
          
             Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings
Ltd. , the roads and utility company controlled by Hong Kong
tycoon  Li Ka-shing , posted a 48 percent drop in first-half
profit after making a one-off gain last year selling assets.  
 Net income fell to HK$2.03 billion ($261 million), or 90
Hong Kong cents a share, from HK$3.89 billion, or HK$1.72 a
share, a year earlier, Cheung Kong Infrastructure said in a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. That compares
with a median estimate of a HK$2.2 billion profit in a survey of
two analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  
 First-half profit last year was boosted by the sale of
three power plants in China to subsidiary  Hongkong Electric
Holdings Ltd.  for HK$5.68 billion that led to a HK$1.3 billion
one-off gain. The drop in the first-half this year was also
because of a loss of three months in earnings contribution from
the divestment of the plants, the company said.  
 “With a solid cash position and deposits of about HK$10
billion, Cheung Kong Infrastructure will continue to pursue new
investments around the globe to further enrich and strengthen
our portfolio,” according to the statement.  
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure has invested in gas, water and
road assets in Australia, Canada and the U.K. to counter slowing
growth in the power distribution market in Hong Kong. Hongkong
Electric yesterday posted a 3.2 percent increase in first-half
profit to HK$2.75 billion, mainly because of investments outside
the city. Cheung Kong Infrastructure has a 39 percent  stake  in
the utility.  
 ‘War Chest’  
 The  shares  declined 1.7 percent this year compared with a
3.7 percent decline by the benchmark Hang Seng index in Hong
Kong. Cheung Kong Infrastructure was down 0.3 percent at
HK$29.05 at the midday break, before the earnings announcement.
Eleven out of thirteen  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg rate the
shares a “Buy.” Two rate the stock a “Hold.”  
 The road and utility company said last year it was in
detailed talks to buy more than 10 projects in North America and
the U.K. and has a HK$10 billion “war chest” for acquisitions.  
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure said in May it’s on Electricite
de France SA’s shortlist of bidders for the power producer’s
three distribution businesses in the U.K. EDF’s U.K. assets have
a value of about 4 billion pounds, Cheung Kong Infrastructure
Chief Operating Officer Andrew Hunter said on March 4, adding
that’s not necessarily the size of the company’s bid.  
 -- John Duce  in Hong Kong. With assistance from  Winnie Zhu  in
Shanghai. Editors:  Ryan Woo .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
John Duce in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        