-- Chilean Domestic Bond Yields Drop as Government's Global Bonds Offer Less
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-29T19:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/chilean-domestic-bond-yields-drop-as-government-s-global-bonds-offer-less.html

          
          
             Chile’s domestic government bond
yields plunged as the government prepared to sell its first peso
bond overseas at a lower yield than some analysts forecast.  
 Chile’s debut international peso bond, due in 10 years, may
pay about 5.5 percent, a person familiar with the transaction
said today. Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase
& Co., managing the sale, increased the proposed size of the
peso bond by $20 million to $520 million and cut the proposed
yield from 5.625 percent, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  
 The yield on a 6 percent peso-denominated government bond
due in 2020 dropped eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 6.07 percent, the lowest level this year. Chile is
selling bonds in dollars and pesos to help cover the $8.4
billion cost of rebuilding from February’s earthquake and $9.3
billion of extra spending over the four years through 2013.  
 “The peso bond is the first sold globally and there had
been very little information about the levels,” said  German Fritsch , head of trading at Deutsche Bank AG in Santiago.
“Indications are much tighter than most people expected and
that’s moving both the nominal and real  curves  in Chile because
there’s an opportunity to arbitrage. From one day to the next,
people outside the country are putting a much lower yield on
Chilean bonds.”  
 The 10-year interest-rate swap rate in pesos fell 10 basis
points to 5.59 percent. The two-year swap rate fell 10 basis
points to 3.92 percent. The average yield on a basket of
inflation-linked central bank bonds due in 10 years fell 10
basis points to 2.79 percent.  
 Proposed Spread  
 The three banks managing the bond sale reduced the proposed
spread on the $1 billion 10-year bonds in dollars to 90 basis
points more than U.S. Treasuries from 95 basis points.  
 “It looks a bit tighter than we expected,” said  Donato Guarino , a credit strategist analyst at Barclays Capital in New
York. “Some accounts may not be keen at this level, but Chile
will appeal to crossover accounts and the U.S. dollar bond will
be in the indexes, which should generate demand. Of the two, the
tighter is the Chilean peso bond.”  
 Moody’s Investors Service in June lifted its foreign
currency rating for Chile to Aa3, the fourth-highest. Standard &
Poor’s ranks it one level lower at A+ and Fitch Ratings grades
it one level lower still at A.  
 The government seeks to reduce the impact of its borrowing
on the exchange rate. Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  on July 22
declined to say whether the proceeds and dollar liabilities
generated by the sale would be exchanged for pesos and peso
liabilities through the swap market.  
 Peso Little Changed  
 The peso was little changed at 523.55 per U.S. dollar after
weakening 0.8 percent to 523.65 yesterday when data showed June
 industrial output  rose less than forecast.  
 “The stable trading performance of the Chilean peso
reflects a wait-and-see attitude ahead of employment data
tomorrow and GDP next week,” said  Cesar Perez , an economist at
Celfin Capital SA in Santiago.  
 Chile’s National Statistics Institute may report tomorrow
that  unemployment  rose to 8.9 percent in the three months
through June from 8.8 percent a month earlier, according to the
 median forecast  of 11 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
central bank is scheduled to release its gross domestic product
proxy for June on Aug. 5.  
 -- With assistance from Caroline Hyde in London and Veronica
Espinosa Navarro in New York. Editor:  James Attwood ,  Glenn Kalinoski .  
 To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        