-- China's Stocks Advance, Led by Cement Makers, Steelmakers; ICBC Declines
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-29T07:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/china-s-stock-futures-rise-on-loose-policy-outlook-airlines-may-gain.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  rose, sending the
benchmark index to the highest in two months, after the central
bank said it will keep a “moderately loose” monetary policy
and steelmakers rallied on improving earnings prospects.  
 Anhui Conch Cement Co. led gains for cement makers after
Citic Securities Co. raised its recommendation on the industry.
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , the listed unit of China’s second-
biggest steelmaker climbed to a two-month high after spot prices
jumped 6.9 percent from last week.  
 “Loosening tightening policies by the government is a big
possibility in the second half,” said  Larry Wan , Beijing-based
head of investment at Union Life Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of $2.21 billion. “The market is also
turning optimistic about third- and fourth-quarter corporate
earnings after some good numbers from interim results.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, climbed 14.45, or 0.6 percent, to
2,648.12 at the 3 p.m. close, the highest since May 28. The  CSI
300 Index  rose 0.5 percent to 2,877.58, led by material stocks.  
 The Shanghai index has rebounded 12 percent from this
year’s low set on July 5 on expectations the government will
ease property curbs and allow more lending to offset a slowdown
in economic growth. Still, the measure is down 19 percent in
2010 on concern measures to control real-estate speculation and
accelerating inflation will damp earnings.  
 Loose Policy  
 Deputy central bank governor  Ma Delun  said the nation will
maintain a moderately loose monetary policy in the second half
of this year, the Financial News reported. China will also
maintain the stability and continuity of monetary policy in the
second half, Ma was cited as saying during a meeting in Shanghai.  
 “Sentiment, which is mainly behind the rally, is still
strong, as corporate earnings are good and the government’s
tightening policies have entered a quiet ‘observation’ period,”
said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities Holdings
Co. in Shanghai.  
 Anhui Conch, China’s biggest cement maker, gained 3.3
percent to 20.22 yuan.  Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co.  surged
4.5 percent to 16.12 yuan. Huaxin Cement Co. added 1.1 percent
to 18.65 yuan.  
 China’s cement industry was raised to “overweight” by
Citic analyst  Pan Jianping , who cited construction of low-income
housing and government-backed industry mergers in a report today.  
 Baoshan Steel gained 2.2 percent to 6.55 yuan, its highest
since May 24.  Hebei Iron & Steel Co. , the listed unit of China’s
biggest steelmaker, rose 1.5 percent to 4.14 yuan. Angang Steel
Co. added 3.2 percent to 8.80 yuan.  
 Steel Outlook  
 The average spot price for domestic hot-rolled steel sheet
has climbed 6.9 percent since last week, data from Beijing
Antaike Information Development Co. showed.  
 Standard Chartered Bank last week raised its recommendation
on some Chinese steelmakers, citing a possible earnings recovery
in the fourth quarter amid lower iron ore contract prices.  
 HSBC Private Bank’s  Arjuna Mahendran , who predicted a
decline in China’s stocks in January, said the country’s month-
long equities rally may falter if the government isn’t able to
boost the economy and contain inflation.  
 “It’s not going to be an easy ride to regain losses,”
said Mahendran, the head of investment strategy for Asia in
Singapore at HSBC Private Bank, a unit of Europe’s largest bank
overseeing $460 billion globally. “We might see some short-term
gains on the index, but there could be reversals until the
picture of overall inflation is clearer.”  
 Manufacturing Concerns  
 Chinese manufacturing data could jolt global markets by
showing the first contraction in 17 months, according to
analysts at Societe Generale SA and Westpac Banking Corp.  
 Seasonal factors mean there is a “tangible risk” the
government-backed  Purchasing Managers’ Index  for July will slip
below 50 for the first time since February 2009, said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia economist for Societe Generale in Hong Kong.
A PMI released by HSBC Holdings Plc could also show a
contraction, he said.  
 The official PMI index probably fell to 51.4 this month
from 52.1 in June, according to a survey by Bloomberg News. The
figure is due Aug. 1.  
 China’s stocks will be “choppy” over the next few months
before rallying towards the end of the year and entering a bull
market, according to  Sandy Mehta , chief investment officer for
Value Investment Principals.  
 The outlook for stocks is improving because U.S. economic
growth will offset the slowdown in Europe, while China’s
tightening concerns have eased, he said in a phone interview
from Hong Kong. He recommended consumption and commodity stocks.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Citichamp Dartong Co.  (600067 CH) rose 5.2 percent to 10.93
yuan, the highest close since April 16. The developer plans to
grant 36 executives options allowing them to buy 20 million
company shares at 10.39 yuan, Citichamp said in a statement.  
 Guangdong Electric Power Development Co.  (000539 CH) jumped
6.7 percent to 6.88 yuan, the biggest gain since April 2009. The
electricity supplier said it plans to buy assets from its parent
for 6.1 billion yuan ($900.2 million) through a private
placement. Trading in the stock had been suspended since June 30.  
 Xi’an Aircraft International Corp.  (000768 CH) surged the
10 percent daily cap to 11.66 yuan after the company said net
income for the first nine months of this year may gain 950
percent to 1,000 percent from a year ago.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editor:  Allen Wan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        