-- CIC Reports 11.7% Global Return for 2009 on Commodities Bets
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-29T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/china-s-sovereign-fund-posts-11-7-global-return-in-2009-on-commodity-bets.html

          
          
             China’s  sovereign wealth fund  posted
an 11.7 percent return on its overseas portfolio in 2009,
reversing a loss a year earlier, as it raised bets on
commodities to benefit from a rebound in global markets.  
 Net income surged 80 percent to $41.7 billion. Total return
on equity, including gains from the overseas portfolio and
holdings in local banks, was 12.9 percent, compared to 6.8
percent in 2008.  
 China Investment Corp., facing an environment that’s “full
of challenges” this year, will “timely” adjust asset
allocation amid an unstable global economy and volatile markets,
the company said in its  annual report  released yesterday. The
$332 billion fund spent $58 billion globally last year, with a
focus on publicly traded equities and bonds, as Chairman  Lou Jiwei  quickened commodity-related investments from U.S. power
producer  AES Corp.  to Indonesia’s  PT Bumi Resources.   
 “The CIC’s focus on resources should have contributed to
strong performances in 2009,”  Rachel Ziemba , London-based
senior analyst at Roubini Global Economics, said before the
announcement. “The truth will come in 2010 and beyond given the
risks to the risky assets that dominate CIC’s portfolio.”  
 Beijing-based CIC is asking the Chinese government for more
funds to invest, Executive Vice President  Jesse Wang  said last
month. Cash holdings dropped by 55.4 percentage points to 32
percent of its portfolio as of Dec. 31, according to the annual
report.  
 Sovereign wealth funds globally have had an increase in
assets as markets rallied last year. The  MSCI World Index  surged
27 percent in 2009.  
 Temasek Holdings Pte , Singapore’s state investment firm,
this month said assets climbed 43 percent to S$186 billion ($135
billion) in the year to March 31.  
 Stocks, Bonds  
 CIC had 36 percent of its global portfolio in equities and
held 26 percent in fixed-income products as of Dec. 31,
according to the annual report.  
 The  MSCI World Index  has dropped 3 percent this year as the
European debt crisis and China’s efforts to curb asset bubbles
threatened the global recovery.  Bumi Resources , the Indonesian
coal producer in which CIC made its largest investment announced
in 2009, has fallen nearly 30 percent.  
 “CIC should fare well in 2010 as they have renewed
confidence, a more experienced organization, and clear
strategy,”  Victoria Barbary , senior analyst at Monitor Group in
London, said before the announcement. “But the global
economy is quite volatile so there are far more external forces
that have to be understood and responded to.”  
 Penn West, Apax  
 CIC in May agreed to invest C$817 million ($790 million) in
a new oil-sands venture with Canada’s  Penn West Energy Trust ,
gaining a stake in the world’s largest crude deposits outside
Saudi Arabia. The company bought stakes worth about 650 million
euros ($845 million) in Apax Partners LLP’s private-equity fund
from investors, a person familiar with the transaction said in
February.  
 “Our preliminary data for the first half of 2010 suggests
that CIC is continuing to pursue its strategy of investing in
natural resources and sharing risk through partnerships and
managed funds, as well as some exposure to private equity,”
Barbary said. “Again their strategy seems to be reasonable
returns, with a risk profile that limits the downside, and
protects against dollar-based inflation/devaluation.”  
 The risk in CIC’s global assets increased “to some
extent” last year as it deployed cash holdings, though that was
offset by diversification across asset classes, the sovereign
wealth fund said.  
 So-called “scattered” investments accounted for 77
percent of the overseas portfolio excluding cash and equivalents,
with the rest in “concentrated” holdings, the annual report
said without giving definitions.  
 -- Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Malcolm Scott ,  Andreea Papuc   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        