-- China Approves Geely's Volvo Purchase From Ford, Ministry of Commerce Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-29T07:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/china-ministry-says-it-approves-geely-s-purchase-of-ford-s-volvo-cars.html

          
          
             China’s  Ministry of Commerce  said it
has approved  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. ’s purchase of  Ford
Motor Co. ’s Volvo Car unit, paving the way for completion of the
$1.8 billion acquisition agreed by the two companies in March.  
 The ministry signed off the deal recently, a ministry
spokesman said by telephone today from Beijing.  
 Geely agreed on March 28 to buy the Volvo Car business from
Ford, marking the biggest overseas acquisition by a Chinese
automaker. Volvo is the latest premium European brand to be sold
off by Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , who has
divested Aston Martin, Land Rover and Jaguar since joining the
carmaker from Boeing Co. in 2006.  
 Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. , Geely’s Hong Kong traded
unit, rose by as much as 11.7 percent, the most in almost five
months, today and changed hands for HK$2.92 at 3:35 p.m. The
stock has fallen 31 percent this year, compared with the
benchmark Hang Seng Index’s 3.6 percent decline.  
 Ning Shuyong, a spokesman for Geely, declined to make an
immediate comment as he was in a meeting.  
 The U.S. automaker, based in Dearborn, Michigan, plans to
complete its sale of Volvo to Geely next week, according to two
people familiar with the plans. Ford and Geely executives are
aiming to close the sale, pending final regulatory approvals and
financing, said the people, who asked not to be identified
revealing internal plans.  
 Ford has said it will continue to supply Volvo with engines,
transmissions and other vehicle components. It also agreed to
provide engineering and technology support and access to tooling
for common components for an unspecified period.  
 Volvo Car has about 20,000 employees worldwide, including
almost 14,000 in Sweden. The unit had pretax profit of $53
million in the second quarter, compared with a $237 million loss
a year earlier, Ford said last week.  
 Selling Volvo would complete Mulally’s strategy of exiting
European luxury lines to focus on Ford’s namesake brand.  
 -- Tian Ying ,  Keith Naughton . Editors:  Ian Rowley ,  Kae Inoue 
.  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        