-- China Grapples With Blast, Chemical Spill in Latest Accidents
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-29T07:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/china-grapples-with-factory-explosion-chemical-spill-in-latest-accidents.html

          
          
             China sent hundreds of officials to
assist people hurt in a gas-pipeline blast in the city of
Nanjing and to retrieve 3,000 barrels of hazardous chemicals
that washed into a river in Jilin as authorities grappled with
the latest in a string of industrial accidents.  
 The explosion at an abandoned factory in the eastern city
of Nanjing killed at least 12 people and left another 15
seriously injured, state broadcaster China Central Television
reported late yesterday. Workers demolishing buildings at the
Nanjing No. 4 Plastics Factory damaged a propylene pipeline,
causing the blast, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  
 “It felt like an earthquake,” said Chen Ming, a resident
who lives less than 500 meters from the site of the explosion.
“Things fell from the shelves and hit me. I ran out of my house
and found everyone was standing outside.”  
 The accidents in Nanjing and Jilin yesterday followed an
acid leak at  Zijin Mining Group Co. ’s copper and gold mines in
the eastern province of Fujian and an oil spill in northeastern
China that shut beaches and a port this month. China’s work
safety administration last week  ordered intensified measures  at
factories, mines and construction sites to prevent accidents.  
 The city of Jilin shut off the local water supply yesterday
after barrels containing trimethyl chloro silicane, a colorless
flammable chemical, were washed into the Songhuajiang river from
a local factory by floodwaters, China Daily reported. Water
supplies resumed this morning, Luan Yajie, an official from the
water quality department of Jilin Water Group Co. said by phone.  
 Blast Site  
 In Nanjing, the police set up a cordon around the blast
site today. The government of Jiangsu province, which Nanjing is
the capital of, dispatched 900 officials to assist local
residents affected by the blast. Damaged houses are being
repaired and the supply of water, electricity and gas has been
“basically” restored, the government said on its website.
Responsibility for the blast is being investigated, it said.  
 Half a dozen local residents living near the blast site
blocked a road this morning to protest the lack of electricity
amid high temperatures in Nanjing. The city of almost 10 million
people was forecast to see temperatures of as high as 34 degrees
Celsius (93 degrees Fahrenheit), according to the  China
Meteorological Administration . Police later carried them away
from the road, allowing traffic to continue.  
 ‘Flattened’ Homes  
 One hundred and twenty people were hospitalized after the
blast at 10:15 a.m. local time yesterday, CCTV reported.
Buildings and vehicles within 100 meters (109 yards) were badly
damaged, Xinhua reported. Houses near the plant were
“flattened,” according to a  report  on the website of the State
Administration of Work Safety.  
 In the city of Jilin, workers had recovered about 400 of
the 7,000 barrels that were washed by floodwaters into the
Songhuajiang, Xinhua reported. About 3,000 of the barrels
contained chemicals, Xinhua reported, without saying how many of
the barrels retrieved were filled with chemicals. The city is
home to more than 4 million people.  
 Flooding in Yongji county in Jilin province, where the city
is located, killed 13 people and left six missing, Xinhua
reported. The county recorded the heaviest rainfall on record
during the evening of July 27 and the early morning of July 28,
Xinhua reported.  
 The water quality of the Songhuajiang was normal as of 4
a.m. local time today, Xinhua reported, citing  Tao Detian ,
spokesman for the Ministry of Environmental Protection. The
ministry has sent a team to Jilin and also set up an additional
seven monitoring sites along the river, Xinhua reported.  
 Spill Spreads  
 Water with the chemical barrels will leave Jilin province,
in which Jilin city is located, and reach  Heilongjiang province 
in about three days and its capital Harbin in seven days, Xinhua
reported, citing Guo Yuan, an official with Heilongjiang
environmental protection bureau. Heilongjiang’s government today
ordered local authorities to ready precautionary water supplies,
according to a statement on its website.]  
 The Songhuajiang is the largest tributary of the
Heilongjiang river, which runs between China and Russia. The
Russian government has asked China for information on the
incident, the Russian news agency RIA Novosti reported on its
website today, citing Alexander Gavrilov, a climate and
environment official.  
 -- Wang Ying ,  Alfred Cang . With assistance from Diao Ying and
 Vince Ni  in Beijing. Editors:  John Liu ,  Ryan Woo .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7562 or
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at +86-21-6014-7015 or
 acing@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chinese firefighters rush to extinguish a fire after an explosion at a plastics factory in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu province on July 28, 2010.Photograph: AFP/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
