-- Citigroup's Medina-Mora Plans `Multi-Year Investments' for Consumer Bank
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-07-29T03:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/citigroup-s-medina-mora-plans-multi-year-investments-for-consumer-bank.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc. , with a U.S. branch
network one-sixth the size of rival  Bank of America Corp.’s ,
plans “multi-year investments in people, infrastructure and
marketing” to expand its North American consumer business,
regional head  Manuel Medina-Mora  wrote in a memo.  
 Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  has given
the plan “full support,” Medina-Mora, 59, wrote yesterday in a
memo to employees of the New York-based bank. “By investing in
our  franchise  we can take advantage of this opportunity to
improve our business and position it for sustainable growth.”  
 The memo, obtained by Bloomberg News and confirmed by bank
spokesman  Samuel Wang , was Medina-Mora’s first communication
with employees since he and other executives met with  board
members  last week to discuss the plans at a company  conference
center  in Armonk, New York. The document doesn’t specify the
size of the planned investments.  
 Citigroup, which got a $45 billion bailout in 2008 and is
still  18 percent owned  by the U.S. Treasury Department, has
tried since early 2009 to develop a strategy for the consumer
business. The unit’s 1,002 banking locations in North America
compare with Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America’s
5,900-branch domestic network.  
 Under the division’s former chief,  Teresa “Terri” Dial ,
executives held strategy sessions last year to discuss how to
morph the business into a “Bank of the Future,” driven by
improved Web and mobile access alongside branches, people
familiar with the matter said at the time. Dial, 60, hired
 Michelle Peluso , the 38-year-old former head of airline-
reservation website Travelocity.com, as a consultant to oversee
the sessions.  
 Citigold  
 Pandit, 53, replaced Dial in January with Medina-Mora, who
retained responsibility for Citigroup’s Latin American
operations. Peluso now reports to Medina-Mora as the division’s
full-time chief marketing officer. Medina-Mora, based in Mexico
City, wrote in the memo that he had “spent the last few months
evaluating and reviewing” the North American division.  
 The bank plans to “invest more in our sales force and
marketing efforts and upgrade our distribution infrastructure,”
he wrote. It also will strengthen lending to small and mid-sized
businesses and invest in  Citigold , Medina-Mora said.  
 Citigold is a brand of services that promises global
travelers and executives an  international network  of automated
teller machines, multiple currency accounts and multi-language
customer support, according to the company’s website.  
 Citigroup also plans to develop “innovative cards and
banking solutions” and a “seamless experience for our
customers,” Medina-Mora wrote, echoing earlier descriptions of
Dial’s “Bank of the Future.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        