-- Citigroup Said to Pay $75 Million to Settle SEC Subprime Case
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-07-30T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/citigroup-said-to-pay-75-million-to-settle-sec-subprime-case.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  will pay $75 million
to settle U.S. regulatory claims that it misled investors by
failing to disclose billions of dollars in holdings tied to
subprime mortgages while the housing crisis unfolded.  
 The company made misstatements on earnings calls and in
financial filings in 2007 about assets tied to subprime loans,
the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a federal
lawsuit yesterday in Washington. Some disclosures omitted more
than $40 billion in investments, it said. Citigroup’s former
chief financial officer and head of investor relations agreed to
pay a total of $180,000 for failing to disclose the risk.  
 “Even in late 2007, as the mortgage market was rapidly
deteriorating, Citigroup boasted of superior risk-management
skills in reducing its subprime exposure,” SEC Enforcement
Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement. “The rules of
financial disclosure are simple. If you choose to speak, speak
in full and not half truths.”  
 Citigroup executives publicly stated four times in 2007
that the New York-based bank had reduced its exposure to
subprime mortgage securities by 45 percent to $13 billion, as
investors and analysts clamored for information about the
deteriorating market. Regulators may investigate other firms
that revised statements about potential exposures and loss
estimates, said  Elizabeth Nowicki , a former SEC attorney.  
 “We are getting a flavor of what they might go after:
overly optimistic disclosures” said Nowicki, who’s now a law
professor at Tulane University.  
 ‘Highly Valued’  
 Former CFO  Gary Crittenden , who left Citigroup last year,
agreed to pay $100,000 to settle claims he didn’t disclose the
risk after getting internal briefings.  Arthur Tildesley ,
Citigroup’s former head of investor relations, will pay $80,000
to settle claims that he helped draft disclosures that misled
investors, the SEC said. Tildesley now heads cross-marketing at
Citigroup, according to the agency.  
 Citigroup,  Crittenden and Tildesley  agreed to settle the
case without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations.  
 “Mr. Crittenden is pleased to have resolved this matter,”
said  John Carroll , an attorney for Crittenden at law firm
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in New York. “The
settlement does not establish liability for purposes of any
other proceeding.”  
 Citigroup is pleased to “put this matter concerning
certain 2007 disclosures behind us,” the company said in a
statement that noted it and the executives weren’t accused of
intentional or reckless misconduct. “Mr. Tildesley is a highly
valued employee of Citi and is making significant contributions
to the company.”  
 Tildesley’s attorney,  Mark Stein  at Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP in New York, declined to comment.  
 Conference Call  
 On an Oct. 15, 2007, conference call with analysts and
investors, Crittenden said the company’s “subprime exposure”
was $13 billion at the end of second quarter and had declined
during the third quarter.  
 The figure he cited omitted “super-senior” tranches of
collateralized debt obligations and financial guarantees known
as liquidity puts that allowed customers to sell debt securities
back to Citigroup if credit markets froze, the SEC said. Those
products added more than $40 billion of subprime risk that the
bank didn’t disclose to investors, the SEC said.  
 “Misleading corporate disclosures are always unacceptable
but are even more so in times of turmoil and crisis,” said
 Scott W. Friestad , associate director of the SEC’s enforcement
unit. “At times like those the information can be more material
to investors and has a greater potential for causing harm.”  
 Citigroup issued a news release on Nov. 4, 2007, that said
the company had about $55 billion of “direct exposure” to the
subprime market.  
 Bailout  
 The bank, once the world’s biggest by assets, got a $45
billion taxpayer bailout in 2008 after losses on subprime
mortgages and CDO holdings withered confidence and nearly
triggered a run on deposits. Citigroup is 18 percent owned by
the U.S. government after repaying $20 billion in December.  
 Citigroup executives including former Chief Executive
Officer  Charles O. “Chuck” Prince  were questioned at an April
hearing by the  Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission  about whether
the bank fully disclosed potential losses.  
 Estimates were in flux, because the subprime market was
rapidly deteriorating, Prince told the financial crisis panel.  
 “At the time, the financial people were working very
intensely with the fixed-income people to try to determine
exposures,” Prince said during the April 8 hearing. “This was
an unprecedented time in which markets were crashing.”  
 ‘Classes of Exposure’  
 Robert Rubin , the onetime U.S. Treasury Secretary who led
Citigroup’s executive committee, told the FCIC that the $13
billion figure represented assets that had a greater likelihood
of triggering losses. The remaining assets were “super-senior”
and were probably viewed within Citigroup as presenting
different “classes of exposure,” Rubin said.  
 Other financial companies revised estimates in 2007 as
markets teetered. Merrill Lynch & Co. absorbed $8.4 billion of
writedowns in October of that year, almost double the firm’s
forecast three weeks earlier.  
 The SEC’s Citigroup suit is its third in a year against a
Wall Street firm as the agency pursues a sweeping investigation
of misconduct stemming from the collapse of the housing market.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. agreed this month to pay $550
million to settle allegations it sold a mortgage security in
2007 without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped
design the asset and was betting it would fail.  
 Bank of America Corp. in February said it would pay $150
million for failing to tell shareholders about $5.8 billion of
bonuses set aside for Merrill employees and losses the
investment bank was likely to suffer. Bank of America agreed to
acquire Merrill in 2008 for $33 billion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Charles Prince, former chief executive officer of Citigroup Inc., during a hearing of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
