-- Citigroup to Target South African Government Contracts With Credit Cards
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-07-29T11:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/citigroup-to-target-south-african-government-contracts-with-credit-cards.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc. , the U.S. bank with
200 million customer accounts, said it will target South
Africa’s government and large companies in the country,
including  Rio Tinto Plc , to use its commercial credit cards.  
 “We’ll aggressively bid for any government tenders,”
 Donna Oosthuyse , managing director of Citigroup in South Africa,
told reporters in Johannesburg today. Commercial cards, which
companies give to employees to cover business expenses, are
“going live” at the South African unit of Rio Tinto, the
world’s third-largest mining company, according to Citigroup.  
 South Africa is the 50th country to take delivery of
Citigroup’s commercial credit cards with services planned in
United Arab Emirates, Turkey, Greece, Luxembourg and New Zealand
by the end of the year, said Manish Kohli, head of wholesale
cards for Citigroup’s Europe, Middle East and Africa unit.  
 Government departments in South Africa will be able to
immediately track payments if they used Citigroup cards,
according to the bank. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  has
accused some government departments of wasteful spending and
complained about World Cup soccer tickets being bought by
departments.  
 The commercial credit card roll-out is a way for Citigroup
to service local and global clients, with the bank seeing
“increasing flows” into Africa, especially South Africa, said
Rajesh Mehta, the head of the lender’s treasury and trade
solutions business for EMEA.  
 The bank won’t take market share from competitors, Mehta
said, adding that the size of the “pot” will grow in Africa’s
largest economy for Citigroup and its rivals, such as  American
Express Co.   
 Citigroup , which received a $45 billion government bailout
in 2008, is the world’s tenth-largest bank by market value. The
shares dropped 7 cents, or 1.7 percent, to close at $4.09 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        