-- CME Profit Gains 22% as Trading Soars in Currency, Interest Rate Contracts
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-07-29T15:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/cme-profit-gains-22-as-trading-soars-in-currency-interest-rate-contracts.html

          
          
             CME Group Inc. , the world’s largest
futures market, said second-quarter earnings rose 22 percent as
trading surged in contracts based on currencies and interest
rates.  
 Net income climbed to $270.7 million, or $4.11 a share,
from $221.8 million, or $3.33, a year earlier, Chicago-based CME
said today in a statement. Excluding certain items, the company
earned $4.43 a share. On that basis, CME was estimated to earn
$4.36, according to a  Bloomberg survey  of 22 analysts.  
 The number of active trades in CME Group’s clearinghouse,
or what’s known as open interest, is 25 percent higher than the
bottom reached in 2008, Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. analysts led
by  Niamh Alexander  said in a note to clients this month. Futures
trading dropped after the credit crisis cut the amount of
borrowed money used to trade while short-term  interest rates 
near zero percent limited the need to hedge with the contracts.  
 “All in all, a solid performance relative to
expectations,”  Roger Freeman , an analyst with Barclays Capital,
said in a note to clients today. Freeman expected the Chicago-
based company to earn $4.41 a share.  
 In the near term, CME Group isn’t looking for mergers or
acquisitions,  Craig Donohue , chief executive officer, said on a
conference call with analysts. The company recently completed a
five-year strategy review and is focused on growing its existing
business, he said.  
 ‘Bullish View’  
 “We have a very bullish view of our growth opportunities
organically,” he said. The exchange became the world’s largest
with the  purchase  of the Chicago Board of Trade and the New York
Mercantile Exchange in 2007 and 2008, respectively.  
 The comment may quell speculation about a buyout by CME
Group of CBOE Holdings Inc., which analysts have said is a
strong acquisition target.  
 CBOE, operator of the largest U.S. options exchange that
went public last month, has no need for a merger partner, Chief
Executive Officer  William Brodsky  said July 26.  
 “We’re not in need of someone else’s money,” Brodsky
said. “We’ve shown we can run ourselves as an independent
company, be profitable and produce a lot of cash.” Chicago-
based CBOE has been a for-profit exchange since 2006.  
 Average daily trading volume at CME Group climbed 31
percent in the quarter, led by an 82 percent rise in currency
futures and a 38 percent jump in interest-rate contracts, the
company said July 2. Smaller gains came in energy and
agricultural futures, for which the exchange earns a higher fee
on the trades, according to Alexander in the July 9 note.  
 Rising Expenses  
 Revenue rose 26 percent to $814 million last quarter from
$648 million a year earlier. CME Group controls 98 percent of
U.S. futures trading. Expenses at the exchange rose 20 percent
to $299 million from $249 million a year ago.  
 Average daily trading in July is 10.7 million contracts,
down 21 percent from the average 13.5 million in the second
quarter. “We’re experiencing normal seasonal patterns” in
trading, which slows in the summer months, Donohue said.  
 CME Group  shares  have gained 5.3 percent in the past year
through yesterday after tumbling from a high of $710.75 in
December 2007 to a low of $156.55 in November 2008.  
 CME Group  rose $5.64, or 2 percent, to $289.15 as of 10:56
a.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  
 Donohue was questioned several times on the call by
analysts about whether the exchange was interested in expanding
into offering trading services for contracts in the $615
trillion over-the-counter derivatives market. CME Group has
teamed with the Eris Exchange to offer clearing for contracts
that are economically equivalent to interest-rate swaps, the
largest OTC derivatives asset class.  
 Effect of Law  
 Mandated clearing of standardized swaps as well as required
execution services was also a major component of the financial
overhaul signed into law earlier this month by President  Barack Obama .  
 “We have no relationship with Eris other than as a
provider of clearing services,” Donohue said. “That does not
represent an effort on our part to get involved in an execution
part of the market.” CME Group dropped its initial plan to
offer execution for OTC credit-default swaps after Wall Street’s
largest dealers rejected the idea, CME Group Chairman Emeritus
 Leo Melamed  said last year.  
 The new financial rules mandate that swap execution
facilities or exchanges such as CME Group be used by investors
to trade clearable swaps. Donohue said the company welcomed the
creation of such facilities that would use the exchange’s
clearinghouse to back trades.  
 CDS Clearing  
 “We’re expecting it will be possible for swap dealers and
inter-dealer brokers to structure their own SEFs to continue the
business model they’ve historically had,” he said. “We have to
respect that they’ll want to continue to do business as they
have been doing.”  
 CME Group has cleared $195 million of credit-default swaps
since beginning its service in December. Competitor
Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s two CDS clearinghouses in the
U.S. and Europe have processed more than $10 trillion of the
contracts since March 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        