-- Coinstar Falls After DVD Revenue Misses Analysts' Estimates
-- Michael White
-- 2010-07-29T23:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/coinstar-falls-after-redbox-dvd-rental-revenue-misses-analysts-estimates.html

          
          
             (Corrects per-share earnings in eighth paragraph.)  
 Coinstar Inc., owner of the Redbox
movie-rental kiosks, fell in extended trading after second-
quarter DVD revenue missed some analysts’ estimates.  
 Revenue rose 35 percent to $342.4 million, Bellevue,
Washington-based Coinstar said today in a statement. That was
less than the $381.3 million average of seven estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 The company said it was accounting for its money-transfer
business as a discontinued operation, complicating comparisons.
Still it appeared sales from DVD rentals fell short of investor
expectations, Michael Pachter, an analyst at Wedbush Securities
in Los Angeles, said in an e-mail. He estimated the money-
transfer unit accounted for about half of the shortfall.  
 Coinstar tumbled $5.29, or 11 percent, to $42.80 in
extended trading after the results came out. The stock retreated
7 cents to $48.09 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading and has gained 49 percent this year.  
 Revenue was within the company’s forecast when the money-
transfer and recently sold electronic payment businesses are
taken into account, Chief Financial Officer Scott Di Valerio
said in an interview. The company has said it plans to sell the
money-transfer operation.  
 Profit this quarter will be 46 cents to 52 cents a share on
sales of $370 million to $390 million, Coinstar said. Analysts
were projecting 61 cents on sales of $406.5 million, the average
of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The company incurred additional expenses in the second
quarter because of the decision to drop the DVDXpress brand and
costs related to new movie supply agreements with Sony Corp. and
Viacom Inc.’s Paramount Pictures, according to the statement.  
 Second-Quarter Profit  
 Net income increased to $13.4 million, or 41 cents a share,
from $6.96 million, or 23 cents, a year earlier, Coinstar said.
Excluding a gain, profit of 39 cents beat 33-cent average of
seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Coinstar is picking up customers as Blockbuster and Movie
Gallery close stores. Movie Gallery, based in Dothan, Alabama,
filed for bankruptcy protection in February and began closing
stores. Blockbuster, the largest movie-rental company, also has
closed outlets in the face of increased competition from Netflix
Inc.’s mail-order service and Redbox.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        