-- Commercial Real Estate Bonds Entice Goldman as Ford Sells: Credit Markets
-- Sarah Mulholland
-- 2010-07-29T16:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/commercial-real-estate-bonds-entice-goldman-as-ford-sells-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and
Citigroup Inc. are attempting to sell the fourth offering of
securities backed by commercial mortgages this year as investor
sentiment rises toward everything from company bonds to loans.  
 The extra yield that investors demand to own top-rated
 securities  backed by commercial mortgages rather than Treasuries
fell 8 basis points yesterday to 273 basis points, or 2.73
percentage points, the narrowest in more than two months,
according to a Barclays Plc index.  Ford Motor Co.  sold $1.25
billion of notes five days after saying it plans to regain its
investment-grade ranking. Loan  prices  reached the highest since
May 20.  
 While the Federal Reserve warned yesterday that commercial
real estate dragged down the U.S. economy in the past two
months, bond investors say growth is strong enough for borrowers
to meet debt payments. U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spreads
narrowed for a fourth consecutive day, in another indicator
investors are willing to take on more risk.  
 “There’s more appetite for risk across the board,” said
 Dan Castro , head of structured finance analytics and strategy at
broker-dealer BTIG LLC in New York. “CMBS is an avenue that’s
going to provide better returns. There are a lot of guys
clamoring for these returns.”  
 The offering from Goldman Sachs and Citigroup consists of
debt payments on 48 mortgages, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. Retail properties account for 78.2 percent
of the deal, said the person, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t public. A $99.9 million loan for 660
Madison Ave. in midtown Manhattan, home to a Barneys New York
store, is the largest in the pool.  
 Agency Mortgage Debt  
 Spreads on top-rated commercial mortgage bonds, at the
lowest since May 18, are up from 219 basis points on April 16,
according to the BarCap CMBS AAA Super Duper Index. A year ago,
the debt paid a spread of 516 basis points, index data show.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own corporate bonds instead of government debt fell 1
basis point to 177 basis points, the lowest since May 19,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate index. Average yields fell to 3.809 percent, from
3.852 percent.  
 The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. declined with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or speculate on creditworthiness, falling 0.1 basis point
to 105.03 basis points as of 12:36 p.m. in New York, according
to Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index
of swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings dropped
1.4 to 104.33.  
 One Bryant Park  
 Both indexes typically decline as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 In the last sale of commercial mortgage bonds, Bank of
America and JPMorgan Chase & Co. sold $650 million of debt tied
to a loan on One Bryant Park, a New York office tower. That
followed a JPMorgan offering two weeks earlier of $716.3 million
of debt, backed by loans to multiple borrowers. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc sold $309.7 million of bonds in April, the
first issue to pool loans from multiple borrowers since June
2008.  
 Banks arranged $3.4 billion of the securities in all of
last year. Sales tumbled 95 percent to $11.2 billion in 2008
from a record $234 billion in 2007, Bloomberg data show.  
 Beige Book  
 Activity in commercial real estate, especially
construction, “remained weak, the Fed said yesterday in its
Beige Book business survey. The report underscored the Fed’s
view that the recovery, while still moving forward, is
progressing at a slower pace than earlier in the year.  
 The Fed reported improvements in service industries, an
increase in tourism, an expansion of manufacturing and progress
in labor markets. Two of the central bank’s 12 districts
reported the economy “held steady” and two said the pace of
expansion slowed.  
 Earnings  have topped analysts’ estimates at 78 percent of
companies in the S&P 500 that have reported second-quarter
results since July 12, Bloomberg data show.  
 “Corporate credit in particular looks very attractive,”
while Treasuries offer no yield,  Kathleen Gaffney , co-manager of
the Loomis Sayles Bond Fund in Boston, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart” with  Carol Massar  and  Matt Miller .  
 Leveraged Loans  
 The difference between the rate to exchange floating- for
fixed-interest payments and Treasury yields for two years, known
as the swap spread, is a measure of investor perception of
credit risk. It serves as a benchmark for investors in many
types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  
 The two-year swap spread narrowed 1.43 basis point to 15.88
basis points, the lowest since April 20.  
 The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA US Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose
for a sixth day yesterday, climbing 0.29 cent to 89.58 cents on
the dollar. Loans have returned 3.64 percent this year,
according to the index.  
 Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, is attracting almost $1 billion a week
from investors, according to  Bill Gross , the firm’s co-founder
and co-chief investment officer. Gross’s Total Return Fund
returned 13 percent in the past 12 months, beating 64 percent of
its peers, Bloomberg data show.  
 ‘New Normal’  
 Returns of 10 percent or higher are unlikely in what Pimco
calls the “new normal,” where deleveraging, re-regulation and
de-globalization lead to slower growth, Gross said yesterday in
a Bloomberg Radio’s “On The Economy” interview with  Tom Keene .
Gross has said investors should be prepared for returns of about
4 percent to 5 percent from bonds and stocks over the next
several years.  
 Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford, last year’s biggest issuer
of high-yield corporate debt, sold the 6.625 percent notes due
in 2017 at a yield of 6.9 percent through its finance unit,
Bloomberg data show.  
 The Ford Motor Credit Co. 6.625 percent notes due in
2017 rose 0.64 cent to 99.125 cents on the dollar, yielding 6.9
percent, or 385 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, as of 12:11 p.m. in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  
 Moody’s Investors Service rates Ford Motor Credit’s
unsecured debt Ba3 and S&P grades the company three steps lower
at B-. High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  
 The second-largest U.S. automaker sold the securities less
than a week after reporting its biggest first-half profit in 12
years and debt reductions aimed at restoring the investment-
grade ratings it lost in 2005.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Ford Motor Co. Focus Electric vehicle sits on display. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
