-- Congress Should Raise Credit-Union Loan Limits to Spur Jobs, Official Says
-- Margaret Collins
-- 2010-07-29T14:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/congress-should-raise-credit-union-loan-limits-to-spur-jobs-official-says.html

          
          
             Congress should raise the lending
limits for credit unions because it would help small businesses
and create jobs, said  Bill Cheney , president and chief executive
officer of the  Credit Union National Association .  
 “Credit unions are lending but they can do a lot more,”
said Cheney, 50, in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York office.
He became CUNA’s head earlier this month.  
 Credit unions are owned by their depositors and represent
about 6 percent to 10 percent of total deposits held by
financial institutions, said Cheney. The Washington and Madison,
Wisconsin-based CUNA represents about 7,800 lenders and 92
million members.  
 Cheney, the former head of the California and Nevada Credit
Union Leagues, said Congress should pass  legislation  introduced
by Senator  Mark Udall , a Colorado Democrat, to let credit unions
make loans to small businesses up to 27.5 percent of their
assets, compared with the current limit of 12.25 percent.  
 “It would free up $10 billion in lending to small business
and create 108,000 jobs in the next year,” Cheney said.  
 Credit unions take deposits from their owner-customers and
make loans to their members, who are typically small businesses,
he said. Deposits in credit unions are federally insured up to
$250,000 by the  National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund ,
similar to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures
bank accounts.  
 The U.S. Senate is debating a small business aid bill, a
version of which has been approved by the House of
Representatives. President  Barack Obama  has been pressing
Congress to push forward on initiatives to help small businesses
in an attempt to encourage job growth.  
 The nation’s unemployment rate fell to 9.5 percent in June
from 9.7 percent in May. Companies with fewer than 500 workers
employ about half of the working population and account for 60
percent of gross job creation, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 12 at a conference in Washington.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        