-- U.S. Consumer Bureau Candidate Warren Courts Bankers
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-07-29T14:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/consumer-advocate-warren-reaches-out-to-banks-senators-in-quest-for-post.html

          
          
             Supporters of Harvard law professor
 Elizabeth Warren  to lead the new consumer financial bureau have
picked up endorsements from lawmakers, political websites and
newspaper editorials. Their success may depend on whether a
quieter campaign Warren has been waging can win over detractors.  
 Warren, chairman of the congressional panel overseeing the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, has dined with banking lobbyists,
explained the financial regulatory bill to Wall Street analysts
and met privately with Republican senators including  Susan Collins  of Maine and  Bob Corker  of Tennessee, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its August 2 issue.  
 If President  Barack Obama  nominates Warren to head the
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, the relationships she’s
been building could blunt a Senate confirmation battle by
countering criticism that her consumer crusading would make it
hard to negotiate fairly with business groups.  
 “It’s perfectly natural that she would reach out to
different industry groups and see what makes them tick,” said
 Camden Fine , president of the Independent Community Bankers of
America, who has met with Warren half a dozen times over the
past year, including over lunch at a Capitol Hill restaurant as
the regulatory bill neared passage last month.  
 Fine said he told Warren that community banks were subject
to excessive regulation and urged her to make non-bank financial
firms the focus of the consumer bureau. “She was receptive to
it,” Fine said.  
 $400 Million Budget  
 The consumer bureau is one of the largest elements of the
financial overhaul, an independent entity that will live within
the Federal Reserve and have more than 1,000 employees, a $400
million budget and power to impose federal rules on mortgages,
credit cards and layaway plans. Obama proposed the bureau in
response to criticism from lawmakers and others that existing
federal regulators failed to protect home buyers from subprime
mortgage abuses during the  housing  bubble.  
 Richard Hunt, president of the Consumer Bankers
Association, an Arlington, Virginia-based trade group that
represents 60 banks, said Warren agreed to meet on July 20 to
talk about small-business lending.  
 “I think she will be nominated to be the first head of the
consumer financial protection bureau,” Hunt said. “It’s
important for us to establish relationships with all the players
in town.”  
 Warren has met with lobbyists as part of her job overseeing
TARP and as an advocate for regulatory reform in general as well
as to discuss the consumer bureau. She is credited with coming
up with the idea for the agency.  
 Short List  
 White House officials have said Warren is on Obama’s short
list. Also being considered, they said, are Assistant Treasury
Secretary Michael Barr and  Gene Kimmelman , a former director of
Consumers Union who is chief counsel for competition policy at
the Justice Department. Others mentioned include  Sheila Bair ,
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  
 While White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  has said that
Warren is a “terrific candidate” who is “very confirmable for
this job,” Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Chris Dodd  on July
27 again questioned whether Warren could garner the 60 votes
needed in the Senate.  
 “She’s qualified. No question about it. But the question
is whether she’s confirmable,” Dodd told reporters.  
 Warren declined to be interviewed for this story. Asked
about her candidacy, White House spokesmen pointed to their
earlier statements in support of her qualifications. The main
business lobbying groups wouldn’t be interviewed either. “We’re
not commenting on any appointees right now,” said  Elise Brooks ,
spokeswoman for the Financial Services Roundtable.  
 Election Year  
 Analysts said that in making his choice, Obama must weigh
Warren’s popularity with the party’s left wing, the political
fallout of a confirmation battle in a difficult election year
for Democrats and the administration’s tattered relationship
with business. If he tries to avoid a fight by naming his
candidate during the Senate’s August recess, the president risks
the ire of Republicans who have been helpful to his legislative
agenda.  
 On July 22, three Senate Republicans who crossed party
lines to vote for the financial overhaul --  Collins  and  Olympia Snowe  of Maine and  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts -- told Obama
they expected him to allow the Senate a say in who runs the
bureau.  
 Dodd said a recess appointment of Warren would be “a huge
mistake.”  
 Mark Calabria , director of financial regulation studies at
the Cato Institute, a free-market policy group in Washington,
said it is “very much in doubt” whether Warren can get 60
votes. “I don’t think it’s a fight Obama wants to wage if he
doesn’t think he can win it,” Calabria said.  
 Beyond politics, Obama also must calculate whether his
choice has the management and leadership skills to unite
employees from seven agencies.  
 Kennedy’s SEC  
 “The first director will set the direction and tone for
the agency for decades,” said  Travis Plunkett , legislative
director at the Consumer Federation of America. “Look at Joe
Kennedy and the SEC in the 1930s. He established that agency as
a vigorous Wall Street overseer.” Though Plunkett’s group has
made no endorsements, Warren would be a “terrific” choice, he
said.  
 Warren began publishing scholarly works on bankruptcy and
consumer debt in the 1980s. The book she wrote with her daughter
in 2003, “The Two-Income Trap: Why Middle-Class Mothers and
Fathers Are Going Broke,” thrust her into the public eye. She
has published two books since, hitting the best-seller lists and
making TV appearances, including on the “Dr. Phil Show.”  
 In her 2007 essay that inspired the consumer bureau,
Warren, 61,  wrote  that kitchen appliances were better regulated
than mortgages and credit cards.  
 Exploding Toasters  
 “Consumers can enter the market to buy physical products
confident that they won’t be tricked into buying exploding
toasters,” Warren wrote in Democracy, a Washington-based
quarterly journal. “By comparison, innovation in financial
products has produced incomprehensible terms and sharp practices
that have left families at the mercy of those who write the
contracts.”  
 That essay, and Warren’s consistent criticism of big banks,
inflamed some on Wall Street. “Does water-boarding the
financial sector build confidence and create jobs?” an investor
asked Warren during a May conference call hosted by  Mike Mayo ,
an analyst with Credit Agricole Securities USA Inc.  
 In her response Warren revisited her kitchen analogy,
saying that federal regulators should protect consumers from
dangers in the fine print of a financial product just as they
would from flaws in the wiring of a toaster. “That’s where
government regulation supports private markets,” she said,
according to a transcript of the call.  
 Mayo, in a note to investors on May 7, said Warren had made
“the best argument that we have heard yet” for a consumer
agency. “Her logic was clear.”  
 Front Row  
 When  Obama  signed the regulatory overhaul law on July 21,
Warren sat in the front row before joining White House senior
adviser  Valerie Jarrett  for lunch.  
 Warren continues to face substantial opposition from
congressional Republicans. “I would not support her for that
job,”  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, Dodd’s Republican counterpart
on the Senate Banking Committee, said in an interview.
“She would have no real check on her, only her imagination.”  
 In other quarters her stock has been rising. House
Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank  of
Massachusetts and 56 other House Democrats last week wrote to
Obama in support of Warren. The New York Times and Boston Globe
followed with editorial-page endorsements.  
 Fever Pitch  
 Warren’s chorus reached a fever pitch on July 24, with
repeated ovations at Netroots Nation, a convention of left-
leaning bloggers held this year in Las Vegas. Warren explained
her vision without making an explicit pitch for the job.  
 “We have an opportunity to pick up the tools that were laid
out in this new financial protection bureau,” Warren said.
“Unused tools don’t do any good.”  
 The banks “fought us every single inch of the way,”
Warren told the crowd. “We scratched and we bit and we hung
on.”  
 Then, with a smile and a wave, Warren closed with a
campaign promise: “Here’s what I want to say: One way or
another, I’ll keep pushing for the middle class.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;  Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
   avekshin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Harvard Law professor Elizabeth Warren chairs a Congressional Oversight Panel hearing on the government bailout of GMAC Inc. Photographer: Melissa Golden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 14 (Bloomberg) -- Elizabeth Warren, chairwoman of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, talks about the effectiveness of TARP and the viability of a consumer protection bureau, which would be created under the financial overhaul bill.  
     Warren talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop."
 (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
