-- Continental AG Posts First-Half Profit as Car Sales Lift Demand for Parts
-- Cornelius Rahn
-- 2010-07-29T16:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/continental-ag-posts-first-half-profit-as-car-sales-lift-demand-for-parts.html

          
          
             Continental AG , Europe’s second-
largest auto-parts supplier, dropped in Frankfurt today after
posting a second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  
 Net income  was 121 million euros ($158 million), compared
with a 190 million-euro loss a year earlier, the Hanover,
Germany-based company said in a statement today. Analysts had
forecast profit of 187 million euros, according to the average
of five estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue  rose 40 percent
to 6.66 billion euros.  
 Continental, which is also Europe’s No. 2 maker of tires,
aims to reorganize more than 8 billion euros of debt as it works
toward merging with majority shareholder Schaeffler Group. The
parts supplier returned to profit in the first quarter after
cutting  thousands of jobs  and reducing spending on development
projects.  
 “The expectations might have gotten a bit too high,” said
 Arndt Ellinghorst , an analyst with Credit Suisse in London with
an “outperform” recommendation on the shares.  
 Continental  fell  61.5 cents to 48.03 euros at the close of
trading at 5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has gained 32
percent this year, valuing the company at 9.6 billion euros.  
 Sales this year will probably gain more than 15 percent,
Chief Financial Officer  Wolfgang Schaefer  said in a telephone
interview. He reiterated the 2010 operating margin, adjusted for
one-time effects, would be in a range of 8 percent to 8.5
percent.  
 Powertrain  
 Adjusted second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes
at the automotive division, which includes the interior and
powertrain units, grew more than eightfold to 305 million euros,
while the rubber division posted a 60 percent increase to 414
million euros.  
 “The powertrain business posted two strong quarters, and
if the positive development continues, we may be able to break
even this year” instead of in 2011, Schaefer said.  
 Selling the rubber unit or parts of it isn’t currently
being considered, Schaefer said.  
 The company agreed with banks in December on a 2.5 billion-
euro loan and sold shares worth 1.1 billion euros in January.
The funds are used to extend debt maturing in August for two
more years. Earlier this month, Continental sold 750 million
euros of five-year high-yield bonds.  
 Bond Sale  
 The company plans to sell a total of as much as 4 billion
euros in  bonds  to stretch out its debt repayment schedule, and
will makes the sales when it’s “opportune,” Schaefer said. He
added that he expects better yields than the 8.75 percent for
the first bond.  
 Continental’s debt stems from its 2007 purchase of Siemens
AG’s VDO auto-component business. The comp  
 Schaeffler, the world’s second-biggest maker of roller-
bearings, will be “ready” late next year to begin a merger
with Continental, Chief Executive Officer  Juergen Geissinger 
said July 27. The company is weighed down by about 12 billion
euros of debt from acquiring a 75 percent stake in Continental.  
 “Continental is well on its way to emerging from the
crisis stronger than before, as demonstrated by the successes
achieved in operations,” Chief Executive Officer  Elmar Degenhart  said in the statement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cornelius Rahn  in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        