-- Crude Price Curve May Flatten on `Stair-Step' Pattern: Technical Analysis
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-29T11:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/crude-price-curve-may-flatten-on-stair-step-pattern-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             The premium for later deliveries of
crude oil may collapse as the spread between the first two
monthly futures contracts follows a “stair-step” pattern,
according to a technical analysis by Barclays Capital.  
 Crude for October delivery on the New York Mercantile
Exchange is about 46 cents more expensive than the September
contract, compared with 93 cents in early June. A chart of the
narrowing difference presents a stair-like shape, that if
continued may shrink the spread to as little as 7 cents,
Barclays analyst  MacNeil Curry  said in an interview yesterday.  
 “This stair-step advance remains intact and I think we’ll
see further narrowing,” Curry said by phone from New York.
“The upside targets would be about minus seven, minus 11.”  
 The gap between the contracts has been converging since
July when it recorded a “pivot low,” and the narrowing has
been reinforced by its 21-day moving average, according to
Curry.  
 The current market condition, in which later months are
more expensive than near-term supplies, is known as contango and
its reverse is called backwardation.  
 The stair-like movement will lead the spread “pretty
close” to backwardation without causing the market structure to
fully reverse, Curry said.  
 “We effectively were stair-stepping higher and the
previous congestion lows were acting as support each time,” he
said. “That’s the definition of an uptrend, where you have a
series of higher lows.”  
 The September contract, which last traded around $77 a
barrel in New York, may slump as low as $71.92 if it breaks
through the support of its 60-day moving average, said Curry.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        