-- Gates Says Pentagon to Help Death-Benefits Inquiry
-- David Evans
-- 2010-07-30T02:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/cuomo-probes-insurers-secret-profits-on-death-benefits-of-u-s-soldiers.html

          
          
             Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
pledged to help the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs probe
how insurers reap profits from death benefits retained for the
families of deceased military personnel.  
 “I will be very interested in the outcome of the VA
investigation,” Gates told a Pentagon press briefing. “We will
do everything we can to help.”  
 New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  has begun a fraud
probe into the life insurance industry and subpoenaed  MetLife
Inc.  and  Prudential Financial Inc.  and, according to a person
briefed on the action, six other companies for information about
profits on the retained death benefits.  
 The investigations, along with a review by the New York
State Insurance Department, were prompted by a Bloomberg Markets
magazine report that more than 100 carriers earn investment
income on $28 billion owed to life insurance beneficiaries. New
York-based MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, and No. 2
Prudential are among the firms that administer the so-called
retained-asset accounts.  
 “Until today I actually believed that the families of our
fallen heroes got a check for the full amount of their
benefits,” Gates said. “This came as news to me.”  
 Advisory Council  
 He is among the members of an  Advisory Council  on
Servicemembers’ and Veterans’ Group Life Insurance that oversees
the program at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The panel
includes the secretaries of defense, commerce, health and human
services and homeland security, and the director of the White
House budget office. It meets at the call of the secretary of
veterans affairs.  
 Gates told reporters today he didn’t realize he was on the
council.  
 Cuomo, in a statement today, called it “shocking and plain
wrong for these multinational life insurance companies to pocket
hundreds of millions in profits that really belong to those who
have lost family members.” He accused the industry of
“hoarding millions that belong to military families.”  
 As the state widened its probe, Cuomo has subpoenaed
 Genworth Financial Inc. , Unum Group and an insurer acquired by
France’s  Axa SA , said a person briefed on the demands. New York
Life Insurance Co., Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. and
Guardian Life Insurance Co. of America also were ordered to turn
over information, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the subpoenas hadn’t been publicly disclosed.  
 ‘Troubling’  
 Matthew Gaul , deputy superintendent and head of the New
York regulator’s life insurance division, said yesterday in an
interview that “it’s troubling that people are not getting an
immediate payment and that the insurance companies at least seem
to be making some effort to make money off this.”  
 Cuomo’s subpoena demands information about the difference
in interest income earned by the insurers and the rate paid to
beneficiaries. His office is also seeking information about how
survivors are told about the conditions of the accounts.  
 Insurance companies may be violating a federal bank law,
Bloomberg Markets reported. A 1933 statute makes it a felony for
any company to accept deposits without state or federal
authorization. The insurer accounts aren’t guaranteed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  
 “We’re looking at the legality of this whole process,”
Gaul said. “There’s a question of whether this is really a
banking business.”  
 IOUs Issued  
 MetLife and Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential place death
benefits in interest-bearing accounts and issue IOUs to
survivors. Insurers market the accounts as a service to allow
bereaved beneficiaries time to think about what they’ll do with
the payout. Carriers make money by investing the funds in bonds
and keeping the difference between returns and the interest they
credit to the accounts.  
 “Beneficiaries have full access to the money in their
retained asset accounts and can withdraw the full amount right
away or at a later date,” the American Council of Life
Insurers, the industry lobby headed by MetLife Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Henrikson , said in a statement. “Retained asset
accounts provide a significant benefit to family members who are
dealing with the emotional loss of a loved one.”  
 Representative  Patrick Murphy , a Pennsylvania Democrat and
veteran who served in Bosnia and Iraq, wrote Prudential Chairman
and CEO  John Strangfeld  today asking that the company disclose
the amount of profit earned on the retained benefits and
“return that money to the beneficiaries.”  
 “Profiteering off the death of troops who sacrificed their
lives in Iraq and Afghanistan cannot stand,” Murphy, a member
of the House Armed Services Committee, said in the letter. “I
will also pursue legislation to ensure this never happens
again.”  
 1 Percent Interest  
 Prudential paid survivors like Cindy Lohman, the mother of
a slain Army sergeant, 1 percent interest in 2008 on their
Alliance Accounts, while it earned a 4.8 percent return on its
corporate funds, according to regulatory filings. Lohman told
Bloomberg Markets that her IOUs were rejected twice by
salespeople when she tried to use them to make retail purchases.  
 “The possibility that life insurance companies are
profiting inappropriately from these service members’ sacrifice
is completely unacceptable,” Mike Walcoff, acting
undersecretary for the VA’s Veterans Benefit Administration,
said yesterday in a statement that announced an investigation.  
 Thomas Considine, commissioner of the New Jersey Department
of Banking & Insurance, said he instructed staff to question
Prudential about Lohman’s rejected IOUs.  
 New York Regulator  
 The New York regulator plans to issue a letter to insurers
urging greater disclosure of the accounts’ terms and the absence
of an FDIC backstop, Gaul said. The watchdog will then consider
whether any rules would prohibit insurers from providing the
accounts, Gaul said.  
 Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner  Joel Ario  is
considering a plan to require insurers to obtain the consent of
beneficiaries before creating an account on their behalf. He
said in an interview that his staff is studying the issue.  
 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, a
group of state regulators, said it will reexamine rules about
what life insurers must disclose to policyholders about
retained-asset accounts.  
 “Regulators are also reviewing the transaction
requirements and terms for the ‘checkbook’ usage associated with
these types of policies,”  Jane Cline , president of the group,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 “Prudential and its Alliance Accounts are in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations,”  Bob DeFillippo , a
spokesman for Prudential, said yesterday.  Christopher Breslin , a
spokesman for MetLife, had no comment. MetLife’s Joseph Madden
told the magazine that customers were happy with the accounts.  
 Backstop for Insurers  
 Considine, of New Jersey, said his department has never
received a complaint about retained accounts. State guarantee
funds backstop insurers and provide account holders with
protection against default by carriers, Considine said.  
 “They do bring a very, very real consumer benefit,”
Considine, who was familiar with the accounts during his 17-year
career at MetLife, said in an interview.  
 State regulators are supposed to back life policies by
raising money from insurers that do business in their state.
There are no public records showing how much companies are
holding in the retained-asset accounts, Bloomberg Markets
reported.  
 “It appears that the substantial interest earned on these
accounts mostly benefit and enrich the insurers at the expense
of the families to whom the money really belongs,” Cuomo said.
“Beneficiaries are not adequately informed by the insurers of
the details of these accounts including the fact that the
insurers are making huge profits at the expense of the grieving
family.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 David Evans  in Los Angeles at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “Until today I actually believed that the families of our fallen heroes got a check for the full amount of their benefits,” Gates said. “This came as news to me.”  Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's David Evans talks about New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo's fraud probe into the life insurance industry.
     Cuomo's office subpoenaed Prudential Financial Inc. and MetLife Inc. for information about profits on death benefits retained from the families of deceased policyholders including military personnel. Cuomo’s investigation was prompted by a Bloomberg Markets magazine report and follows a review by the New York State Insurance Department. Evans speaks with Margaret Brennan and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo. Photographer: Chris Hondros/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
