-- Cuomo Said to Subpoena Genworth, Unum as Insurer Probe Widens
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-30T21:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/cuomo-said-to-subpoena-genworth-unum-as-life-insurer-fraud-probe-widens.html

          
          
             New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  subpoenaed  Genworth Financial Inc. , Unum Group and an
insurer acquired by France’s  Axa SA  as the state widens a life-
insurance fraud probe, said a person briefed on the demands.  
 New York Life Insurance Co., Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance Co. and Guardian Life Insurance Co. of America also
were ordered to turn over information, the person, who declined
to be identified because the subpoenas hadn’t been publicly
disclosed, said yesterday. Cuomo is probing profits insurers
earn on death benefits that the carriers retain on behalf of the
families of deceased policyholders including military personnel.  
 More than 100 carriers earn investment income on $28
billion owed to life insurance beneficiaries, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reported this week. Cuomo announced an investigation
yesterday into what he called “secret profits” and said he
subpoenaed  MetLife Inc.  and  Prudential Financial Inc.  His probe
follows reviews by the New York State Insurance Department and
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.  
 “It is shocking and plain wrong for these multinational
life insurance companies to pocket hundreds of millions in
profits that really belong to those who have lost family
members,” Cuomo said in a statement yesterday. “The insurance
industry appears to be hoarding millions that belong to military
families whose loved ones have made the ultimate sacrifice.”  
 MetLife, which retains about $10 billion of death benefits,
said today that the accounts being probed by Cuomo are popular
with clients.  
 ‘They Love It’  
 “The beneficiaries have full access to their funds,”
MetLife Chief Executive Officer  Robert Henrikson  said in a
conference call with analysts. “Our accountholders tell us they
love it.” Henrikson said his firm hadn’t yet been subpoenaed.  
 Genworth said that almost all of the beneficiaries who have
retained-asset accounts opted to keep their money with the
insurer. Beneficiaries have the choice of what to do with the
funds, and if they don’t respond to an inquiry from the insurer,
the money is held by the company, said  Tom Topinka , a spokesman
for Richmond, Virginia-based Genworth. He said the company has
received a subpoena.  
 Richard Jones , a spokesman for Guardian, New York Life’s
 William Werfelman  and Northwestern’s Jean Towell said their
companies received subpoenas.  
 Unum, Axa  
 “We are not aware of a subpoena, but we will certainly
cooperate in every way should we receive one,” said  Jim Sabourin , a spokesman for Chattanooga, Tennessee-based Unum.  
 Axa’s  Chris Winans , who was asked about the Paris-based
firm’s MONY unit, had no comment.  
 Prudential Chief Executive Officer  John Strangfeld  said the
Newark, New Jersey-based company is in talks with Veterans
Affairs to address the agency’s concerns. By holding
beneficiaries’ funds and allowing access on demand, the insurer
provides security to its clients, he said in a statement.  
 “Beneficiaries are vulnerable targets for abusive sales
tactics,” he said yesterday. “We believe that the Alliance
Account takes the pressure off beneficiaries to do something
with the money -- a situation that may lead to imprudent and
expensive investment decisions.”  
 Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  pledged to help Veterans
Affairs in its probe. Representative  Patrick Murphy , a
Pennsylvania Democrat and veteran who served in Bosnia and Iraq,
wrote Strangfeld asking that the company disclose the amount of
profit earned on the retained benefits and “return that money
to the beneficiaries.”  
 Fallen Heroes  
 Prudential paid survivors like Cindy Lohman, the mother of
a slain Army sergeant, 1 percent interest in 2008 on their
Alliance Accounts, while it earned a 4.8 percent return on its
corporate funds, according to regulatory filings. Insurance
companies may be violating a federal bank law, Bloomberg Markets
reported. A 1933 statute makes it a felony for any company to
accept deposits without state or federal authorization.  
 “Until today I actually believed that the families of our
fallen heroes got a check for the full amount of their
benefits,” Gates said yesterday. “I will be very interested in
the outcome of the VA investigation.”  
 MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, and No. 2
Prudential place death benefits in interest-bearing accounts and
issue IOUs to survivors. Insurers market the accounts as a
service to allow bereaved beneficiaries time to think about what
they’ll do with the payout. Carriers make money by investing the
funds in bonds and keeping the difference between returns and
the interest they credit to the accounts.  
 No FDIC Backing  
 The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, a
group of state regulators, said yesterday it will reexamine
rules about what life insurers must disclose to policyholders
about retained-asset accounts. The New York insurance watchdog
plans to probe whether any rules would prohibit insurers from
providing the accounts, which aren’t guaranteed by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.  
 State regulators are supposed to back life policies by
raising money from insurers that do business in their state.
There are no public records showing how much companies are
holding in retained-asset accounts, Bloomberg Markets reported.  
 “It appears that the substantial interest earned on these
accounts mostly benefit and enrich the insurers at the expense
of the families to whom the money really belongs,” Cuomo said.
“Beneficiaries are not adequately informed by the insurers of
the details of these accounts including the fact that the
insurers are making huge profits at the expense of the grieving
family.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Evans  in Los Angeles at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Andrew Cuomo, New York attorney general, speaks during a news conference in New York. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's David Evans talks about New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo's fraud probe into the life insurance industry.
     Cuomo's office subpoenaed Prudential Financial Inc. and MetLife Inc. for information about profits on death benefits retained from the families of deceased policyholders including military personnel. Cuomo’s investigation was prompted by a Bloomberg Markets magazine report and follows a review by the New York State Insurance Department. Evans speaks with Margaret Brennan and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
