-- Czech Koruna Weakens From November 2008 High on Central Bank Speculation
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-07-29T08:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/czech-koruna-weakens-from-november-2008-high-on-central-bank-speculation.html

          
          
             The Czech koruna eased from the
strongest level in more than 20 months on speculation the
central bank may try to slow the currency’s advance.  
 The koruna weakened 0.5 percent to 24.802 per euro as of
9:56 a.m. in Prague. The currency jumped to 24.663 against the
common currency yesterday, the strongest since November 2008,
pushing its relative strength index to 81.87, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A reading of 70 or above is a signal an
asset may fall, while that below 30 indicates it may rise,
according to technical analysts.  
 The Czech currency rallied the most in more than two months
yesterday as the breach of 25 per euro level triggered automatic
purchase orders from investors who previously bet on the koruna
weakening. It has been the best performer among emerging-market
currencies this month as speculation the recovery in Europe, the
biggest market for Czech exports, would accelerate.  
 “We see the risk of verbal intervention as elevated in the
near term,” Societe Generale SA emerging-market strategists,
including  Benoit Anne , wrote in an e-mailed note. Depreciation
in the currency is expected before the Czech National Bank
meeting scheduled for next week, Anne said today.  
 The Czech central bank will probably keep the  main rate 
unchanged at 0.75 percent when it meets on Aug. 5, according to
all 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The Czech business and
consumer confidence rose to the highest level in 22 months in
July, according to a report on July 26, as rising demand for the
country’s exports drove a recovery from the recession.  
 The last time the koruna advanced close to 25 per euro,
central bankers “intervened verbally and cut rates surprisingly
in May,” according to the London-based SocGen analysts.  
 Policy makers unexpectedly lowered the benchmark interest
rate by a quarter-point to a record low on May 6. The move
followed comments from Vice Governor  Mojmir Hampl  that the
“question remains” as to when the easing cycle will end after
the currency strengthened to a seven-month high on April 15.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        