-- Dan's Papers Publisher Sale to Insiders Approved Over Creditor Objections
-- Don Jeffrey
-- 2010-07-29T23:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/dan-s-papers-publisher-sale-to-insiders-approved-over-creditor-objections.html

          
          
             The sale of  Brown Publishing Co. ,
the owner of Dan’s Papers in New York’s Hamptons, to insiders
was approved by a bankruptcy judge who rejected part of the
transaction after objections from some creditors.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Dorothy Eisenberg  ruled today that
Brown Media, controlled by the publisher’s three top executives,
can acquire most of the company’s assets for $22.4 million. She
rejected the sale of three real-estate parcels for a total of
$10,000 to the insiders.  
 “I find that the real property was not adequately
advertised, was not adequately valued,” Eisenberg said at the
close of a three-hour hearing today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Central Islip, New York. “There was no support for such a sale
for $10,000.”  
 Brown Publishing, based in Cincinnati, said after a 20-hour
auction last week that the winning bidders were Brown Media and
 the Delphos Herald , which offered to buy several publications in
Ohio for $3.59 million in cash. Besides the cash, the bids
require the assumption of liabilities.  
 Eisenberg today approved the sale of the Ohio publications
to Delphos.  
 The official committee of creditors with unsecured claims
opposed the real estate sale, claiming that Brown accepted the
$10,000 bid for three parcels even though they might be worth
more than $555,000.  
 Shareholder  Windjammer Capital Investors LLC  also opposed
the sale. The private-equity firm said Thomas Carlson, the
independent director appointed by Brown to oversee the sale,
favored the insiders.  
 Real Estate Bids  
 Most of today’s hearing was cross-examination by Michael
Warner, the lawyer for the creditors’ committee, over whether
other bids for the real-estate had been sought.  
 Scott Kane , a lawyer for Windjammer, asked the judge to
include language in the sale order insuring that the insiders
wouldn’t be “insulated” from claims. Windjammer has sued Brown
for breach of contract.  
 Eisenberg said she would sign the sale order after changes
in language were made. She agreed to extend authority to Brown
to use cash to run its operations until then. A previous order
expires tomorrow.  
 Advertising Decline  
 Brown, which hasn’t filed its reorganization plan, sought
Chapter 11 protection from creditors in April, citing a decline
in advertising revenue. Besides Bridgehampton, New York-based
 Dan’s Papers  and the Ohio newspapers, Brown owns business
publications in Utah, South Carolina, Illinois, Iowa and
Colorado.  
 Lenders with secured claims bid for the assets at the
auction using what they’re owed rather than cash. The lenders
include  Allied Irish Banks Plc , PNC Bank NA, Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., Huntington National Bank, Prudential Insurance
Co. of America and Wells Fargo Bank NA.  
 The case is In re Dan’s Paper Inc., 10-73295, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District New York (Central Islip).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Don Jeffrey  in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        