-- Darfur Violence Kills Three in Camp for Sudanese Displaced, UN Reports
-- Maram Mazen
-- 2010-07-29T16:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/darfur-violence-kills-three-in-camp-for-sudanese-displaced-un-reports.html

          
          
             Three Sudanese civilians were killed
yesterday in a camp for displaced people in the western region
of Darfur during fighting between supporters and opponents of
peace talks with the government, the United Nations said.  
 Those killed were affiliated with the Liberation and
Justice Movement, an alliance of small rebel groups, the  UN-
African Union peacekeeping mission , said today in an e-mailed
statement. The killings took place in the Hamadia camp in the
West Darfur state town of Zalengi.  
 “A number of houses belonging to LJM supporters were also
burnt down,” the mission known as Unamid said in the statement.
The government arrested four suspects, it said.  
 The three men died as a result of clashes between
supporters of the LJM, which is currently in talks with Sudan’s
government, and the Sudan Liberation Movement faction led by
 Abdel Wahid Nur , one of the main Darfur rebel movements that
opposes the negotiations. Another group, the Justice and
Equality Movement, suspended talks with the government after
saying it violated a cease-fire agreement.  
 Gunmen identifying themselves as SLM members opened fire
“indiscriminately” in the Kalma camp for displaced civilians
in South Darfur state on July 24 to protest against the Qatari-
sponsored peace talks, Unamid said.  
 Genocide Charge  
 The  International Criminal Court  has issued arrest warrants
for President  Umar al-Bashir , accusing him of responsibility for
genocide and war crimes in Darfur, where the government and
rebel forces have been fighting for the past seven years. He
denies the charges.  
 Violence in Darfur exploded in 2003 when mostly African
rebels took up arms against the government in Khartoum, accusing
it of marginalizing the region.  
 The Darfur conflict has led to the deaths of as many as
300,000 people, mainly due to illness and starvation, and the
displacement of about 2.7 million people from their homes,
according to UN estimates. The Sudanese government has put the
death toll at about 10,000.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        