-- DBS Posts Surprise Second-Quarter Loss on $747 Million Impairment Charge
-- Joyce Koh
-- 2010-07-30T02:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/dbs-posts-surprise-second-quarter-net-loss-on-goodwill-impairment-charge.html

          
          
             DBS Group Holdings Ltd. , Southeast
Asia’s biggest bank, reported an unexpected second-quarter loss
as it booked a one-time goodwill impairment charge at its Hong
Kong unit because of pressure on interest margins.  
 The loss of S$300 million ($220 million) compares with net
income of S$552 million a year earlier, the company said in a
statement today. The  average  estimate of eight analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a profit of S$572.9 million. Excluding the
S$1.02 billion goodwill charge, DBS’ net income for the second
quarter rose 30 percent to S$718 million.  
 DBS booked the charge for its  Hong Kong unit  because
“noticeable and persistent strains” in wholesale funding
markets meant interest margins will continue to fall, according
to the statement. In February 2006, DBS took a charge of S$1.1
billion for its purchase of Hong Kong’s Dao Heng Bank, leading
to a net loss of S$441 million -- the biggest since it started
reporting quarterly earnings in 2001, the same year the bank
bought Dao Heng for $5.4 billion.  
 “To take this write-off when interest rates are at a
historic low is prudent,” said  Pauline Lee , an analyst at Kim
Eng Securities. “They are also addressing the competitive
market for deposits in Hong Kong, which might lead to an
increase in funding costs, unlike in Singapore where they
dominate the low-cost deposit franchise.”   
 DBS Stock   
 She said her “buy” recommendation on DBS is currently 
under review.  
 DBS shares rose as much as 1.3 percent before giving up
gains to trade 0.3 percent lower at 10:16 a.m. in Singapore. The
city-state’s benchmark Straits Times Index was 0.4 percent lower.  
 Net interest income, or the difference between what the
bank makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, fell 4
percent to S$1.07 billion in the quarter from a year earlier.
The net interest margin, a measure of loan profitability,
narrowed to 1.84 percent from 2.01 percent a year earlier.  
 The three-month Hong Kong interbank offered rate, or Hibor,
has averaged 0.2 percent over the past year. Hong Kong accounts
for 21 percent of DBS’ assets and 19 percent of net interest
income, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sibor  
 Singapore’s three-month interbank lending rate, or Sibor,
which has averaged 0.6 percent this year, also remains one of
the biggest challenges to DBS and rivals  Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp.  and  United Overseas Bank Ltd.   
 RBS analyst  Trevor Kalcic  on July 14 cut his recommendation
on DBS from “buy” to “sell,” saying the bank’s earnings may
“disappoint” in the short term because of the city-state’s low
interbank rate and rising costs. “The problem is that DBS no
longer has room to cut its cost of funds, while pressure on
asset yields remains,” Kalcic said.  
 Non-interest income in the quarter rose 10 percent to S$748
million. DBS’ net fee and commission income was unchanged at
S$358 million from a year ago, as declines in stock-broking and
loan syndication activities were offset by higher wealth
management fees.  
 DBS’ net loans grew 14 percent to S$146.1 billion from a
year earlier as businesses and home owners borrowed more in
Singapore and Hong Kong. Total loans in Singapore rose to
S$292.5 billion in May from S$288.1 billion a month earlier,
data from the Monetary Authority of Singapore showed.  
 The Singapore government expects the Southeast Asian
island’s economy to expand 13 percent to 15 percent in 2010.
Growth accelerated to 18.1 percent in the first half, the
fastest pace since records began in 1975.  
 The Monetary Authority of Singapore does not expect global
proposals on bank capital and liquidity to effect Singapore
banks in a “significant manner”, according to its managing
director  Heng Swee Keat  in a speech yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        