-- Deepwater Moratorium in Gulf of Mexico Seen Cutting Rig-Industry Profits
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-29T18:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/deepwater-moratorium-in-gulf-of-mexico-seen-cutting-rig-industry-profits.html

          
          
             The U.S. moratorium on deep-water
oil and gas drilling in the Gulf of Mexico prompted by  BP Plc ’s
spill will crimp second-half profits,  Pride International Inc. 
and  National Oilwell Varco Inc.  said.  
 Pride, Houston-based owner of 24 offshore drillships and
rigs, fell as much as 9.3 percent after forecasting lower third-
quarter profit than analysts estimated. National Oilwell, the
biggest supplier of rig equipment, said cutbacks by customers
may curb per-share profit 2 cents this quarter and next.  
 About 40 of the 56 rigs that were working in the Gulf
before the BP disaster are idle, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. 
Rigs will stay out of work longer than the six-month moratorium
on deep-water drilling that the Obama administration imposed in
the wake of BP’s spill, Pride said. It’s slated to end Nov. 30.  
 “The moratorium had little impact on the second quarter
because of how late it occurred,”  Kurt Hallead , an Austin,
Texas-based analyst for RBC Capital Markets, who rates Pride
shares “sector perform” and owns none, said in a telephone
interview before results were announced. “In the third quarter,
it basically will impact everybody.”  
 Per-share profit in the third quarter will be 23 cents to
28 cents, Pride said today on a conference call with investors
and analysts. The company was predicted to earn 39 cents a share
excluding one-time costs and gains, according to the average of
27 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Pride’s Profit  
 “Even before the incident, the sector was faced with
challenges,” Pride said today in a statement announcing second-
quarter income fell 54 percent to $57.5 million, or 32 cents a
share, matching the average of 30 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. New deep-water rigs ordered before the global
recession are now glutting the market, and closing the Gulf to
drilling may depress dayrates elsewhere, it said.  
 Pride dropped $1.23 to $23.37 at 2:34 p.m. in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange and traded as low as
$22.31. The stock has fallen 31 percent since the April 20
drilling-rig explosion that triggered BP’s record U.S. spill.  
 At  National Oilwell Varco , the moratorium may trim profit
as much as 2 cents a share for the next two quarters,  Clay Williams , chief financial officer of the company, the biggest
supplier of equipment for drilling rigs, said today on a
conference call. Some customers have delayed purchases of drill
pipe, others have suspended plans to build new deep-water rigs,
he added.  
 Rig Income Dropping  
 Operating income from the nine offshore rigs of  Helmerich &
Payne Inc.  fell 12 percent to $11.2 million in the fiscal
quarter ended June 30 as usage and margins fell, the Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based company said today in a statement. The moratorium
accounted for 3 percent of the decline in the segment, the
company said.  
 Helmerich & Payne reported a net loss of $36.7 million, or
34 cents a share, driven by costs of $102.7 million to write off
11 rigs seized by Venezuela in a pay dispute. Profit excluding
such one-time items was a penny higher than the average of 20
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The shares fell 7 cents, less than 1 percent, to $40.54.  
 National Oilwell Varco net income rose 82 percent to $401
million, or 96 cents a share, as it sold more equipment and
tools to companies extracting oil and gas from hard formations
such as shale in the U.S. and Canada, Chief Financial Officer
Williams said.  
 The shares rose $1.40, or 3.8 percent, to $38.73 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 The spill cleanup increased sales of basic supplies and
orders rose for pressure control equipment in anticipation of
higher safety standards, Williams said. Sales of rig spare parts
may rise in coming months as idle rigs accelerate upgrades and
maintenance, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        