-- Deutsche Bank Markets $350 Million CLO as Garrison Seeks Higher Leverage
-- Emre Peker
-- 2010-07-29T23:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/deutsche-bank-said-to-market-350-million-garrison-clo-boosting-returns.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG  is arranging a $350
million collateralized loan obligation to refinance existing
debt investments managed by  Garrison Investment Group LP  that
would boost leverage and equity returns, according to people
familiar with the negotiations.  
 The new structure will be put together from $450 million of
assets in two Garrison CLOs, a form of collateralized debt
obligation that bundles high-yield, high-risk loans and slices
them into securities of varying risk, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private. The new
CLO will be three times levered and returns on the equity part
would increase by 2 to 3 percentage points, the people said.  
 Deutsche Bank follows Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp.
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in trying to restart CLO issuance
after sales dropped by 99 percent last year from a record $91
billion in 2007, when securities that repackaged debt paid for
two-thirds of the biggest leveraged buyouts ever. CLO sales this
year rose just above the 2009 low as junk-rated borrowers seek
to refinance $468.3 billion of loans and private-equity firms
tap banks to pay for a fivefold increase in LBO transactions.  
 “Any deal happening is a positive in this market,” said
 Vishwanath Tirupattur , a credit analyst at Morgan Stanley in New
York. “Subdued new issuance of CLOs certainly poses challenges
for refinancing LBOs. We have argued in the past that it is CLOs
that put the ‘L’ in LBOs.”  
 Banks sold three CLOs for $1.3 billion in the U.S. this
year as prices of the safest portions in the securities rallied
32 percent to 91 cents on the dollar in July from their record
low in April 2009, according to Morgan Stanley data. That
compares with $1.22 billion of CLO issuance in all of last year.
The New York-based bank estimates $5 billion to $10 billion of
CLO sales this year, Tirupattur said.  
 LBO Deals  
 Speculative-grade companies repaid $101.9 billion of loans
since 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
Borrowers face a so-called maturity wall that runs through 2017
with $394.8 billion due through 2014, the data show.  
 Private-equity firms led by Washington-based Carlyle Group,
Silver Lake of Menlo Park, California, and New York’s Warburg
Pincus LLC are acquiring companies at the fastest pace since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They’re also
seeking the biggest leveraged loans slated for LBOs since Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in September 2008 to pay for
$46.6 billion of acquisitions, Bloomberg data show.  
 NBTY Inc., the maker of Nature’s Bounty nutritional
supplements being bought by Carlyle, is seeking a $1.5 billion
term loan for the acquisition, the largest such obligation in
almost two years, according to Bloomberg data. Interactive Data
Corp., the Pearson Plc unit that provides financial market data
and services, took out a $1.33 billion term loan for its buyout
by Silver Lake and Warburg Pincus, exceeding IMS Health’s $1.25
billion LBO debt that priced in February.  
 Institutional Loan Issuance  
 Institutional investors, or non-bank lenders such as CLOs,
mutual funds and hedge funds, bought $81.1 billion of high-yield
loans this year, up from $38 billion in all of 2009, according
to Barclays Capital, the investment banking division of Barclays
Plc. Banks have agreed to raise $17.7 billion more of the debt,
the data shows.  
 High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 Garrison, a New York-based investment firm with $2.5
billion of total assets under management, joins  Tetragon
Financial Group Ltd.  and a San Francisco-based unit of Nuveen
Investments Inc. in seeking CLO investors. The three companies
plan to raise a combined $1.15 billion.  
 Garrison CLO Spreads  
 The interest rate on the AAA rated, or highest investment-
grade, part that will make up 64 percent of the Garrison CLO is
being negotiated at 2.25 percentage points to 2.5 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, the people
familiar with the talks said.  
 At the beginning of this month, AAA rated CLO portions
traded at a spread of 2.45 percentage points over the lending
benchmark, down from a high of 4.25 percentage points during the
past year, according to Morgan Stanley data. The margin got as
tight as 2.05 percentage points over the last year.  
 The Garrison transaction would also include a 5 percent AA
rated portion at a margin of 4 percentage points to 4.5
percentage points over Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to
each other. Another 5 percent of A rated portion will pay an
interest 5.5 percentage points to 6 percentage points over the
lending benchmark, the people said.  
 Investors will get a one-year call protection on the CLO
maturing in 2017, or no later than 2018, the people said.
Deutsche Bank, which plans to buy some of the highest-rated
portion, is marketing the deal to investors worldwide including
banks, insurance companies and other CLOs, they said. Garrison
will be the sole equity investor in the CLO, which will be
issued at face value. The obligation may be called Garrison CLO
2 Ltd., according to one of the people.  
 Loan Portfolio  
 The assets in the portfolio include middle-market and
broadly syndicated leveraged loans, the people said. None of the
debt is covenant-lite and the package doesn’t include loans that
financed the so-called mega-LBOs, they said. Covenant-lite loans
don’t have any financial maintenance requirements.  
 The weighted average discount margin, which also takes into
effect the difference between market prices for the loans and
face value, will be about 6.5 percentage points to 7 percentage
points more than Libor.  
 Citigroup priced a $525 million CLO overseen by WCAS Fraser
Sullivan Investment Management LLC in March in a transaction
that refinanced an existing investment and increased its size by
more than 50 percent. The New York-based bank also arranged a
$325 million CLO for  Leon Black ’s Apollo Management LP in May.
That month, Goldman priced a $450 million CLO for manager Doral
Money Inc., with Babson Capital Management LLC as the collateral
adviser.  
 Symphony CLO  
 Bank of America is arranging a $300 million CLO for
Tetragon’s LCM Asset Management LLC. Nuveen’s Symphony Asset
Management LLC had tapped the Charlotte, North Carolina-based
bank as the underwriter for a $500 million obligation. Goldman
Sachs is now marketing the deal, according to Barclays Capital.  
 “Recently we have seen a few new-issue CLOs, including a
partial refinancing,” said  Gautam Kakodkar , a credit strategist
at Barclays Capital in New York. “While the current asset-
liability arbitrage and the resulting equity returns are not yet
compelling, the transactions could provide a blueprint for a
gradual recovery.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Deutsche Bank logo  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Deutsche Bank AG logo at one of the bank's branches in Frankfurt, Germany. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Deutsche Bank AG logo at one of the bank's branches in Frankfurt, Germany. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
