-- Disney's Iger Opts for Buy-Don't-Build Approach in Drive for Digital Heft
-- Ronald Grover
-- 2010-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/disney-s-iger-opts-for-buy-don-t-build-approach-in-drive-for-digital-heft.html

          
          
             Four years ago,  Bob Iger , the chief
executive officer of  Walt Disney Co. , tried to build a cell-
phone business. Disney created a family-oriented service that
included global positioning so parents could track their kids.  
 Too few consumers signed up, and the company killed the
operation after 15 months. Disney Interactive, the division that
ran the ill-fated cell service, is still unprofitable. It lost
$55 million last quarter.  
 Iger retains his enthusiasm for digital business and has
switched strategies to  buying  rather than building. He wants to
acquire social games and other online services that come with
customers and talented creators and that will help sell Disney’s
famous brands.  
 “You don’t get the kind of growth we want by building from
the inside,” he said in an interview in Bloomberg Businessweek’s
Aug. 2 edition.  
 Since paying $350 million for the kids’ social network Club
Penguin three years ago, Disney has purchased Wideload Games,
whose founder helped create Microsoft’s hit “Halo” franchise.
Early this month, the entertainment giant acquired Tapulous, a
publisher of music-related games for Apple’s iPhone.  
 Disney made its biggest video game bet yet on July 27,
agreeing to pay $563 million for closely held Playdom, the
Mountain View, California-based maker of “Sorority Life” and
“Mobsters,” which are played on Facebook, MySpace and mobile
phones. If Playdom meets performance targets over time, its
founders and investors may receive an additional $200 million.  
 Fast-Growing Venue  
 Playdom specializes in games that sell virtual goods. In
“Mobsters,” players try to build crime syndicates by buying
with real money digital machine guns and henchmen. In “Sorority
Life,” players purchase clothing and accessories as they climb
a social ladder. Some 42 million people regularly play Playdom’s
games each month, according to Disney.  
 Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Morgan Securities in
Los Angeles, said Playdom will give Disney a potentially fast-
growing venue to sell Disney characters and media brands from
Mickey Mouse to Spider-Man to ESPN. When the Pixar movie “Cars
2” is released next June, promotions might include the
soundtrack in a Tapulous-made music game for mobile phones and
the characters woven into Playdom games on Facebook.  
 Disney said it plans to launch a virtual world based on
“Cars” next month. That would be in addition to more
traditional product tie-ins such as plush-toy merchandise, games
for  Nintendo Co. ’s Wii console, coverage on ABC and the Disney
Channel, and theme-park rides.  
 Looking for Knowhow  
 “I don’t think they’re looking for Playdom’s revenue as
much as they’re looking for Playdom’s knowhow” in working
social games into the Disney mix, Pachter said.  
 Playdom CEO  John Pleasants  is moving to Disney, where he
will continue to oversee social-game development and become an
executive vice-president. He will work with Iger’s point-man for
digital strategy,  Steve Wadsworth , who has run Disney’s Internet
unit since 1999 and assumed video-game oversight in 2008.  
 Iger said the buy-don’t-build approach is what drove some
earlier acquisitions. His $8.1 billion purchase of Pixar in 2006
buttressed Disney’s flagging animation division. The
$4.2 billion acquisition of Marvel Entertainment last year gave
the company, better known for cartoon princesses than
superheroes, iconic comic-book characters that appeal to boys.  
 Club Penguin was its first acquisition of a virtual world.
The site’s founders run online worlds with monthly subscription
fees and sales of virtual goods. They built the “Cars” site
that will launch next month and are overseeing older ones such
as “Pirates of the Caribbean.”  
 Talent on Board  
 Iger has some Internet talent on his board to lean on as he
makes digital deals. Apple CEO  Steve Jobs  joined as a result of
the Pixar acquisition and is Disney’s largest shareholder.
Disney was the first to sell TV programs and films on Apple’s
iTunes online media store.  
 Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  was tapped
in March to become a director. Disney has since increased its
presence on the social network and experimented with using it to
sell tickets to the Pixar movie “Toy Story 3.”  
 Big media companies typically lose money online.  News
Corp. ’s digital media unit lost $150 million in the quarter
ended in March.  CBS Corp.  stopped breaking out results for
interactive after that unit lost $41.3 million in the first nine
months of 2009.  
 “It’s the right strategy for Disney to buy,” says  Gina Bianchini , a venture capitalist who co-founded the social
network Ning.com with  Marc Andreessen . “And they are looking at
some very savvy acquisitions.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andy Fixmer  in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 Rgrover5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Walt Disney Co chief executive officer Robert Iger. Photographer: Matthew Staver/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- David Bank, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, discusses Walt Disney Co.'s purchase of Playdom Inc., the second-biggest maker of games played on Facebook and MySpace, and the status of the company's efforts to sell its Miramax film division.
     Bank speaks with Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
