-- Dodd, Frank Plan Congressional Hearings on Basel Bank-Capital Regulations
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-07-29T00:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/dodd-frank-plan-congressional-hearings-on-basel-bank-capital-regulations.html

          
          
             Christopher Dodd  and  Barney Frank ,
authors of the U.S. financial overhaul, plan hearings on the
status of global talks to revise bank-capital standards amid
worries that proposed rules are being watered down.  
 “I am concerned the recent proposals out of Basel will
result in weak and perhaps even nonbinding provisions that
provide credit to banks for holding forms of capital that have
little or no value in absorbing losses,” said Senator  Ted Kaufman , Democrat of Delaware. “The financial reform bill
includes only a promise of higher capital requirements for U.S.
banks, which we were told were going to be negotiated on an
international level.”  
 The Senate Banking Committee, chaired by Dodd, will hold
the discussions on the Basel process in September, said Sean
Oblack, a spokesman for the Connecticut Democrat. Frank, the
Massachusetts Democrat who heads the House Financial Services
Committee, also plans to hold a hearing on the subject, said
spokesman  Steven Adamske . Neither panel has set a date nor
decided who will be asked to testify.  
 Congress is turning its attention to global rule-making
after having completed its financial reform efforts earlier this
month, capping almost two years of partisan and intra-party
fighting. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision this week
relaxed some of its capital and liquidity proposals, winning
praise from banks worldwide. The negotiations are scheduled to
be concluded by November.  
 “The hearing is our idea and will be part of our
examination of the implementation of Dodd-Frank, including
international regulatory harmonization,” Oblack said in a
statement.  
 Call for a Hearing  
 Last week, Texas Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a
Republican, called on Frank to set up a hearing on Basel, saying
Congress must know more about the process and its potential
impact on the U.S. financial system.  
 The new rules, informally known as Basel III, would force
banks to double their capital levels, some analysts expect.
Since the onset of the credit crisis in 2008, U.S. voters favor
tougher bank regulations, opinion polls show.  
 Some European governments are bowing to pressure by their
banks as the region’s economic recovery stalled. France and
Germany have led efforts to weaken the regulations proposed by
the Basel committee last year, according to bankers, regulators
and lobbyists involved in the talks.  
 The Basel committee said this week it agreed to continue
allowing some assets, including banks’ minority stakes in other
financial firms, to count in part as capital, reversing a plan
to ban their use. It also expanded the definition of what counts
as liquid assets and gave banks until 2018 to comply with a new
 leverage ratio  designed to rein in risk-taking.  
 Leadership  
 A long-term liquidity ratio that analysts estimated would
have forced banks to sell more than $4 trillion of debt also
won’t be imposed for eight years.  
 “The U.S. must provide strong leadership in the Basel
negotiations or we will be left with international bank
standards that once again are based on the lowest common
denominator,” Kaufman, who has spoken out on the Basel process
before, said in an e-mail message.  
 U.S. lawmakers held similar hearings in 2005 and 2006,
after the committee of regulators and central bankers approved
standards known as Basel II. Congress was seeking to gauge the
impact of proposed rules on U.S. banks.  
 “Basel and capital requirements are not something that
have been focused on on Capitol Hill for years and years,”
Frank Kelly, head of government affairs in the Americas for
Deutsche Bank AG, told analysts on a conference call. “I think
most members of Congress don’t know what Basel is.”  
 The Basel II rules announced in 2004 are still being
implemented by U.S. banks, a process that won’t be completed
until the first quarter of next year.  
 -- With assistance from  Christine Harper  in New York. Editors:
 Dan Reichl ,  Andreea Papuc   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yalman Onaran  in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net ;
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Christopher Dodd and Barney Frank  
                       
                         
                           Win McNamee/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, left, and House Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank, chat during a signing ceremony for the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, left, and House Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank, chat during a signing ceremony for the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington. Photographer: Win McNamee/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
