-- East European Assets to Benefit as `Neighborhood Risk' Wanes, Citi Says
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-07-29T13:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/east-european-assets-to-benefit-as-neighborhood-risk-wanes-citi-says.html

          
          
             East European assets, worst hit by
the euro region debt crisis, are bound to outperform as
investors return to emerging markets and “neighborhood risk”
diminishes, Citigroup Inc. said.  
 “Central and eastern Europe was home to the world’s worst-
performing currencies in the second-quarter sell-off, so the
recent return of risk appetite in global markets could see” the
region’s “asset prices do particularly well,”  David Lubin ,
Citi’s London-based head of emerging markets, wrote in an e-
mailed note today.  
 The Hungarian forint was the world’s worst performer in the
second quarter, sliding 6.7 percent against the euro, followed
by the Polish zloty, which lost 6.6 percent and the Romanian
leu, with a 6.2 percent decline. Since June 30, the region’s
currencies have made some of the biggest gains globally, led by
the Czech koruna, the zloty and the leu as appetite for riskier
emerging-market assets has returned.  
 The former communist countries of Europe and Central Asia
are recovering from their deepest recessions since switching to
free-market policies two decades ago. The growth outlook in the
euro area, the largest export market for most of eastern Europe,
damped recovery prospects as the 16 countries sharing the common
currency grapple with a sovereign-debt crisis.  
 Easing Concern  
 Demand at recent auctions of Greek, Spanish and Portuguese
debt and a report that showed European economic confidence rose
to the highest in more than two years eased concern that
Europe’s debt crisis may derail the recovery.  
 That helped European stocks rally this week and pushed
German 10-year government bond yields to near their highest in
more than two months, signaling increased willingness to buy
risky assets.  
 Euro-area governments are in the process of approving a 750
billion-euro ($981 billion) financial-stability fund designed to
boost confidence in the single currency and support euro members
in need of funds. Since the euro-area rescue was announced on
May 10, the euro is up 2.3 percent against the dollar. The euro
has lost 14 percent against the dollar since a Nov. 25 high.  
 Emerging-market stocks climbed for an eighth day,
currencies strengthened and government borrowing costs fell
today.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.3 percent to
993.57 at 12:57 p.m. in London, extending the longest stretch of
gains in five weeks.  
 ‘Disproportional’ Benefit  
 The extra yield on developing-nation debt over U.S.
Treasuries dropped 3 basis points to 2.79 percentage points,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s EMBI+ Index.  
 The current sentiment of “risk on” should benefit emerging
Europe “disproportionately, especially since asset prices are
relatively cheap” Lubin said.  
 The forint this month has also been in the top 10
performers globally versus the euro after talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union on a loan
review broke down two weeks ago.  
 There are still threats to emerging Europe’s financial
stability, Lubin said. The region’s vulnerability stems from
possible financial contagion that stressed western European
banks might be reluctant to roll over debt on the balance sheets
of their east European subsidiaries, he said.  
 Slower euro-region growth that may have “nasty
implications” for exports from the region also contributes to
risk, according to Lubin.  
 The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which
helped limit the impact of the financial crisis in eastern
Europe by persuading banks such as Italy’s  UniCredit SpA ,
France’s  Societe Generale SA  and Austria’s  Erste Bank AG  to
remain in the region, warned last week that the worst isn’t over
for the banking industry, which will slow credit expansion.  
 The EBRD also lowered its forecast for growth in the
economies of eastern Europe and Central Asia, citing increased
risks from budget cuts and volatile financial markets in the
euro region. The development bank expects an average of 3.5
percent growth this year in the 30 countries in which it
invests, and 3.9 percent next year.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        