-- Egypt Central Bank Keeps Interest Rates on Hold as Inflation Stays Stable
-- Alaa Shahine
-- 2010-07-29T14:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/egypt-central-bank-keeps-interest-rates-on-hold-as-inflation-stays-stable.html

          
          
             The Egyptian  central bank  held its
benchmark interest rate at a four-year low for the seventh
straight meeting after core inflation was almost unchanged.  
 The Cairo-based bank kept its overnight deposit rate at
8.25 percent, the lowest level since November 2006, according to
a statement on its website. All six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ahead of the meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee
had predicted the decision.  
 “Headline and core inflation continued to decelerate in
the second quarter of 2010 on the back of lower year-on-year
food prices,”  Mohamed Abu Basha , economist at Cairo-based
investment bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said in a report today.
“However, as growth continues to accelerate risks are
increasing. We therefore expect interest rates to remain
unchanged until the end of 2010.”  
 Core inflation, which excludes the costs of fruits and
vegetables as well as regulated prices, was 6.70 percent in June
compared with 6.69 percent in the previous month. Headline
inflation in urban areas of Egypt, the rate that the central
bank uses to calculate the core measure, accelerated to 10.7
percent from 10.5 percent in the same period.  
 Egypt’s economy expanded at a 5.9 percent annual rate in
the second quarter of 2010, the government said yesterday. For
the fiscal year that ended in June, the economy grew 5.3 percent
compared with 4.7 percent the previous year.  
 The central bank, which meets every six weeks to discuss
monetary policy, last lowered the benchmark rate in September.  
 The benchmark EGX30 stock index has gained about 1.7
percent this year.  Talaat Moustafa Group Holding , Egypt’s
biggest publicly traded real estate developer which also has
tourism assets, has gained about 6.2 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alaa Shahine  in Beirut via Cairo newsroom at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        