-- EIB `Switchable' Notes Allow Issuer, Investors to Place Annual Libor Bets
-- Sarfraz Thind
-- 2010-07-29T11:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/eib-switchable-notes-allow-issuer-investors-to-place-annual-libor-bets.html

          
          
             The European Investment Bank issued
$300 million of bonds known as switchable notes that give it an
annual option to change the fixed return to a floating rate.  
 Investors can then convert the 30-year securities back to a
fixed-rate return in the subsequent year, according to the
prospectus for the privately placed notes. The deal allows
investors to bet on the direction of the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, which was set at 0.46563 percent today
for three-month dollar loans.  
 “It’s like an ongoing callable deal but instead of having
to replace the deal the money stays with us for the 30 years,”
said  Richard Van Blerk , an official in the dollar-funding
division at the EIB in Luxembourg. “Investors can bet on Libor
rates going up in the long term through holding such a
structure.”  
 Patricio Bustos-Heppe , an executive director at arranger DZ
Bank AG in Frankfurt, declined to comment, citing client
confidentiality.  
 The zero-coupon securities are priced to yield 5.6 percent
per year, and after the first year the EIB has the option of
switching them to pay a floating rate. If the option is
exercised, the investor will receive a coupon of 0.17 percent
over Libor per year.  
 Once the EIB has triggered its switch option, the investor
has the chance to restructure the deal back to a zero-coupon
bond after one year, or on the anniversary of the switch date in
following years. Both issuer and investor can use their options
throughout the lifetime of the deal.  
 The interest on the notes amortizes rather than being paid
at the end of the bond’s maturity as in traditional zero-coupon
bonds, according to the prospectus.  
 The deal is the second switchable note issued by the EIB
this year following a $200 million sale marketed by Deutsche
Bank AG in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
earlier notes were sold with a fixed coupon of 5.8 percent that
could be converted to a floating rate of 0.18 percent over
Libor. Both notes were bought by investors that requested the
structure, said Van Blerk.  
 Jan Wipplinger , a Singapore-based Deutsche Bank trader who
worked on the June issue, declined to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        