-- Lily, Schlumberger, Amazon, HP: Intellectual Property (Updtae1)
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-29T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/eli-lilly-schlumberger-amazon-hp-levi-strauss-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Eli Lilly & Co. , already facing
competition next year for its top-selling drug, lost a court bid
over patent protection on its cancer medicine  Gemzar , which
could lead to generic products as early as November.  
 A U.S. appeals court said yesterday a lower court was
correct to invalidate a patent on a method of using the medicine
that expires in 2013. The patent is almost the same as one on
the compound in Gemzar that expires in November, the Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit said in a  ruling  on its website.  
 Gemzar, used for lung, breast, pancreatic and ovarian
cancers, generated $747.4 million in U.S. sales last year.
Global Gemzar sales were $1.36 billion, down 21 percent from the
previous year, the Indianapolis-based company said in its
fourth-quarter earnings report.  
 “If Lilly suddenly loses more or less a billion-and-a-
half-dollar drug, that’s a significant problem since they’re
also losing Zyprexa next year,”  Les Funtleyder , an analyst with
New York-based Miller Tabak & Co., said yesterday in a phone
interview. “It could have a significant impact to earnings.”  
 The decision is a victory for India’s Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd., which had challenged the patent, and generic-
drug companies including  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  and
Novartis AG’s Sandoz that also are seeking to sell lower-cost
versions of the medicine.  
 “It opens up the generic market some two years early on an
incredibly important drug,” said  James Hurst  of Winston &
Strawn in Chicago, the lawyer who represented Mumbai-based Sun.  
 When a drug loses patent protection, typically its sales
can fall as much as 80 percent in the next two to three years,
Funtleyder said. Gemzar, which is given by injection, may see
revenue deteriorate more slowly because the drug is harder to
make, he said. Funtleyder has a “neutral” rating on Lilly
shares and doesn’t own them.  
 U.S. District Judge  George Caram Steeh  in Detroit
invalidated the patent last year. Lilly continued to sue generic
companies, including Sandoz and Hospira Inc., anticipating a
victory at the appeals court. In March, a federal judge in
Indianapolis upheld the patent that expires in 2010.  
 The appeals court said the 2013 patent covered an invention
that was already protected through 2010. Hurst used the same
double-patenting argument to invalidate Lilly’s claim on the
antidepressant Prozac in 2000.  
 Mark Taylor , a spokesman for Lilly, said the company was
preparing a statement.  Denise Bradley , a spokeswoman for Petah
Tikva, Israel-based Teva, said the company had no comment.  
 “We’re encouraged by this development and remain committed
to bringing high-quality, low-price products to market as soon
as possible,” said  Daniel Rosenberg , a spokesman for Lake
Forest, Illinois-based Hospira. A spokeswoman for Novartis
didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  
 Lilly is seeking to increase the speed of drug development
as it faces patent expirations on two top-selling medicines, the
antipsychotic Zyprexa next year and antidepressant Cymbalta in
2013.  
 The case is Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. v. Eli Lilly
& Co., 10-1105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Sun Pharmaceutical v. Eli
Lilly, 07-15087, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Detroit).  
 Schlumberger loses to EMGS in Oil-Exploration Patent Dispute  
 Electromagnetic Geoservices ASA  said in a statement that
the Court of Appeal in London ruled in favor of EMGS in a patent
dispute launched by  Schlumberger Ltd. , “where Schlumberger
sought to invalidate two of EMGS’s basic method patents.”  
 The patents relate to the use of electromagnetic technology
to locate oil and gas deposits beneath the seabed. EMGS said
July 6 that it signed a multiyear contract worth a minimum of
$150,000 with Mexico’s Petroleos Mexicanos to survey the Mexican
sector of the Gulf of Mexico.  
 In January 2009, a London trial court found three EMGS
patents were invalid. At that time the company said it would
appeal the ruling.  
 Houston’s Schlumberger will have to make an initial payment
of $3.5 million to Trondheim, Norway-based EMGS. The oil
exploration was also awarded its costs of the appeal in full,
according to the statement.  
 EMGS said the court refused Schlumberger permission to
appeal its ruling to the U.K’s Supreme Court.  
 Facebook Wins Patent Case Against Leader Technologies  
 Facebook Inc., owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking site, won a patent case brought by  Leader
Technologies Inc.  when a jury held the competitor’s patent
invalid.  
 Leader sued Palo Alto, California-based Facebook in
Wilmington, Delaware, in 2008 seeking royalties and an order to
stop the alleged infringement. The trial began July 19.  
 “We thank the jury for listening carefully to all the
facts,” Facebook general counsel Ted Ullyot said in a
statement. “From the day this lawsuit was filed, we said the
patent was invalid.”  
 Paul J. Andre, a lawyer for Westerville, Ohio-based Leader,
said he’s confident the ruling “will not stand” in further
litigation.  
 Leader’s patent 7,139,761, for managing electronically
stored data, was awarded to inventors Michael McKibben and
Jeffrey R. Lamb in 2006.  
 McKibben founded Leader in 1997. The company develops
Internet-based systems to help businesses manage e-mail, voice
mail, teleconferencing and video data, according to the
company’s website.  
 Facebook was started in 2004 by Harvard University
undergraduate Mark Zuckerberg. It reportedly had 2009 revenue of
more than $700 million, and Zuckerberg is presently facing a
suit in federal court in Buffalo, New York, alleging a New York
resident is entitled to 84 percent of the company.  
 In its decision in the patent case, the jury also ruled
that Facebook’s technology did infringe claims of the patent.
under U.S. patent law, an invalid patent cannot be infringed.  
 The invalidity ruling was based on the jury’s determination
that Leader failed to file its patent application within a year
of offering the invention for sale, as required by law.  
 Alexander Poltorak,  chief executive officer of patent-
licensing firm General Patent Corp. of Suffern, New York, said
such a finding “is very difficult to reverse on appeal. There’s
no way to overcome it.” He says he’s following the trial
although he has no dealings with any of the parties.  
 The trial was supervised by U.S. Magistrate Judge  Leonard Stark .  
 The case is Leader Technologies Inc. v. Facebook Inc., 08-
cv-862, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Amazon.com, Borders, Barnes & Noble Sued Over Mob Book Copyright  
 Amazon.com Inc. ,  Barnes & Noble Inc.  and  Borders Group Inc. 
were sued for copyright infringement by the author of a book
about the Mafia.  
 Salvatore Scorza, whose book “Mafia” was published in
2007 by Harper Collins Publishers Ltd., claims a book titled
“Mafia” that the stores are selling is actually his book. The
new book was published by Skyhorse Publishing Inc. of New York,
he said in his complaint filed July 26 in federal court in Los
Angeles.  
 Scorza claims the Skyhorse book “comprises identical
copies of each page” from his book, including photos and
textural editing. Both books contain a forward written by Sam
Giancana, the nephew of the Chicago crime boss by the same name,
Scorza said.  
 The forward written for the Skyhorse book is
“substantially similar” to the one Giancana wrote for Scorza’s
book, according to court papers. Scorza included photocopies of
both forwards in his court filings.  
 Scorza said the Skyhorse edition was created by
“deliberately and willfully copying each page” of his book.  
 He said he was harmed by the creation of what he calls the
“derivative work” and included Amazon.com and the other
booksellers in the complaint because they are selling and
distributing copies of the Skyhorse book.  
 He asked the court for an award of the profits that the
defendants realized through their alleged infringement, together
with money damages. He also seeks an order for the destruction
of the allegedly infringing book, and for the damages to be
tripled to punish the defendants for their actions.  
 Scorza also asked for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  
 As of yesterday, the Skyhorse website listed a book
“ Mafia: The Government’s Secret File on Organized Crime ,” and
credited authorship to the United States Treasury Department.
Amazon.com Inc. listed both books, with  Scorza’s book  selling
for $250 from an affiliated retailer. The  Treasury Department’s
book  sells for $13.98.  
 Scorza is represented by Kevin M. Welch of the Law Office
of Kevin M. Welch of Hermosa Beach, California.  
 The case is Scorza v. Tony Lyons, 2:10-cv-05507-DDP-E, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 HP Seeks Trademarks for Computer, Airline Reservation System  
 Hewlett-Packard Co.  filed a trademark application that may
indicate its willingness to compete with  Apple Inc. ’s iPad.  
 The Palo Alto, California-based computer company filed an
application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office July 10 to
register “palmpad” as a trademark for computers and computer
hardware.  
 HP acquired  Palm Inc.  and its mobile operating system this
year for $1.2 billion.  
 Another recent HP trademark application relates to the
company’s activities in airline-reservation software.  
 The company filed an application July 7 to register
“agilaire” to be used with computer software for managing
airline reservations and to provide leased-time access to
software applications in the transportation industry.  
 HP signed an agreement with  AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines
in August 2009 to develop a computerized reservation, pricing
and ticketing system.  
 Levi Strauss Sues Four Companies for Infringing Pocket Design  
 Levi Strauss & Co., the San Francisco clothing company
whose origins date back to the California gold rush of 1849,
sued sportswear makers for trademark infringement.  
 The complaint, filed July 26 in federal court in Atlanta,
accuses the defendants of infringing the pocket stitching design
that is a trademark for Levi jeans. That  looping design  is known
as Levi’s “Arcuate” trademark, and has been used by Levi
Strauss since 1873, according to court papers.  
 The defendants include Skillz and Manhattan, both of
Atlanta, Loops Farmer of Jersey City, New Jersey, and Member’s
Property Inc. of Vernon Hill, Illinois. The allegedly offending
jeans are sold under the brand names “classic blue,” “DMAR”,
“DMAX,” “Members Property” and “Sky,” according to the
complaint.  
 Levi Strauss claims the defendants have made and sold
“substantial quantities” of infringing products and that it’s
been harmed by their actions.  
 The company asked the court to order the defendants to quit
selling, importing and manufacturing infringing products, and to
report their “funds and assets that arise out of their
infringing activities.”  
 Levi Strauss also asked for awards of money damages
attorney fees and litigation costs, including investigative
expenses, and for an order for seizure of all infringing
products and promotional materials.  
 Levi Strauss is represented by  Tywanda H. Lord  of Atlanta’s
 Kilpatrick Stockton LLP , and  Gregory S. Gilchrist ,  Gia L.
Cincone  and  Ryan Bricker  of San Francisco’s  Townsend & Townsend
& Crew LLP .  
 The case is Levi Strauss & Co. v. Skillz, 1:10-cv-02335-
TWT, U.S. District Court, Northern District Of Georgia
(Atlanta).  
 Blu Basil Restaurant Claims Blue Basil Infringes Marks  
 A North Carolina restaurant chain sued a Thai restaurant
for trademark infringement.  
 Tuscan Sun Inc., of Charlotte, North Carolina, operates  Blu
Basil , an Italian-themed casual-dining restaurant in Charlotte.
The company objects to a Thai restaurant in Charlotte operating
under the name Blue Basil.  
 Blu Basil has been in operation since February 2009, and in
February 2010 Tuscan Sun demanded that the proposed Thai
restaurant not use the Blue Basil name, according to the
complaint filed July 27 in federal court in Charlotte.  
 Blue Basil opened for business in April.  
 Tuscan Sun claims that in addition to a similar name, the
Thai restaurant included the image of a plant on its signage
that’s akin to the basil plant used in the Blu Basil mark.  
 The public is likely to be confused by the similar names
and signage, and Tuscan Sun is harmed as a result, the company
said in its pleadings.  
 Tuscan Sun asked the court to bar the Thai restaurant from
using the name Blue Basil or any other name that would cause
confusion with the mark. Additionally, Tuscan Sun asked for
attorney fees, litigation costs and money damages, and requested
that the damages be tripled to punish Blue Basil for its
actions.  
 Tuscan Sun is represented by  John C. Nipp  of Charlotte’s
 Summ, Addition & Ashe PA .  
 The case is Tuscan Sun Inc. v. Blue Basil Inc., 3:10-cv-
00342-RLV-DSC, U.S. District Court, Western District of North
Carolina (Charlotte)  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        