-- Emerging Bond, Equity Inflows Climb on Stress Tests, U.S. Earnings Growth
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-30T01:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/emerging-bond-equity-inflows-climb-on-stress-tests-u-s-earnings-growth.html

          
          
             Emerging-market equity and bond fund
inflows rose in the week ended July 28 as European bank stress
tests and U.S. earnings reports bolstered investor optimism,
EPFR Global said in a statement.  
 Asia ex-Japan emerging-market equity funds received more
than $1 billion, the strongest inflows in 14 weeks, EPFR said.
Global emerging-market equities, emerging-market bonds and high-
yield bonds also each received more than $1 billion, it said.  
 The flow into developing-nation funds “accelerated in late
July as some of the clouds hanging over the asset class, most
notably the prospect of weaker U.S. and European demand, lifted
for several days,” said Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR,
which tracks $13 trillion of assets, in an e-mail.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  tracking developing-nation
equities has gained for the past eight trading sessions, as
concern ebbed that Europe’s government-debt crisis will slow
growth and companies from DuPont Co. and FedEx Corp. raised
their profit forecasts amid improving demand. The measure
dropped 0.2 percent to 992.21 as of 9:34 a.m. in Shanghai.  
 Indian equity funds posted an eighth consecutive week of
inflows and China stock funds recorded the biggest weekly intake
since mid-April, EPFR said. Commodity funds had the biggest
outflow on record, according to the statement.  
 Stress Tests  
 Governments from Spain to Ireland have stepped up efforts
to push down budget shortfalls. Greece, which triggered the
crisis after saying its deficit was more than four times the
European Union’s limit, has pledged to trim the shortfall to 8.1
percent of gross domestic product this year, from 13.6 percent
last year.  
 The Committee of European Banking Supervisors said July 23
that only seven of 91 banks in the EU failed stress tests.
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on July 26
called them “a very important transparency exercise.”  
 Dollar bonds in developing nations handed investors a 9.7
percent return this year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index. U.S. Treasuries advanced 6.1
percent and European debt rose 3.5 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s indexes.  
 The yield premium investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed to 2.8 percentage points on
June 16, compared with 3 points a week earlier, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Plus Index. The spread reached 3.55 points on
May 25, the widest since September 2009.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai,  Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore, with
assistance from  Garfield Reynolds  in Sydney: Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Allen Wan   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net ;
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        