-- Empresas ICA, Ecopetrol, Petrobras, Telemar: Latin America Equity Preview
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-07-29T06:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/empresas-ica-ecopetrol-petrobras-telemar-latin-america-equity-preview.html

          
          
             The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  
 The  MSCI Latin America Index  rose 0.3 percent to 4,048.64.
In Brazil, preferred shares usually are the most-traded class of
stock.  
 Brazil  
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA  (PETR4 BS): Brazil’s state-
controlled oil company said it obtained a credit line for export
financing of 2 billion reais with Caixa Economica Federal in
June, according to an e-mailed statement. The state-owned oil
company is considering financing options in light of its
expansion, Petrobras said. Petrobras fell 0.6 percent to 27.80
reais.  
 Telemar Norte Leste SA  (TMAR5 BS): Brazil’s biggest fixed-
line telephone company known as Oi will be an “interesting
hunter” for acquisitions, with focus on emerging markets, after
it agreed to sell a stake to Portugal Telecom SGPS SA, Chief
Financial Officer Alex Zornig said in a conference call with
investors and analysts. Telemar fell 8.6 percent to 48.01 reais.  
 Mexico  
 Empresas ICA SAB  (ICA* MM): Mexico’s largest construction
company said second-quarter net income fell to 252.4 million
pesos. Sales rose to 9.36 billion pesos, the company reported in
a filing to Mexico’s stock exchange. ICA rose 0.1 percent to
31.71 reais.  
 Colombia  
 Ecopetrol SA  (ECOPETL CB): Ecopetrol SA Repsol YPF SA got
Brazil government approval to sell stakes in a deepwater oil
block to Statoil ASA and Ecopetrol, Colombia’s state-run oil
company. Colombia’s state oil producer, Ecopetrol, and Statoil
will each buy 30 percent stakes in the BM-ES-29 block in the
Espirito Santo basin, according to board-meeting minutes from
Brazil’s ANP oil regulator, which were posted on the agency’s
website. Separately, Ecopetrol reported second-quarter profit
was 1.8 trillion pesos.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        