-- Enbridge Michigan Cleanup May Take Months, Coordinator Says
-- Samantha Zee
-- 2010-07-29T20:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/enbridge-michigan-cleanup-may-take-months-coordinator-says.html

          
          
             Enbridge Inc. , which carries most of
the oil imported to the U.S. from Canada, faces months of
cleanup after a rupture on a pipeline led to about 816,000
gallons of spilled fuel in southern Michigan.  
 “This isn’t going to take a couple of weeks, but months,
to clean up,” Ralph Dollhopf, the federal on-scene coordinator
for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, said on a
conference call.  
 The oil leaked into a tributary of the Kalamazoo River,
prompting the company to deploy 14,000 feet of oil-containment
boom. Oil hasn’t yet breached Morrow Lake, Dollhopf said.  
 “We don’t believe we have a release issue in Morrow Lake,
but further upstream,” he said. “We plan to try and keep it
that way, by keeping containment upstream.”  
 The lake is 25 miles downstream from the spill site near
Enbridge’s Marshall, Michigan, pump station. The EPA has
conducted flights over the lake to check for oil sheens.  
 The pipe, part of the Lakehead System, is run by Enbridge
Energy Partners LP. Enbridge controls the entity through its
general partner.  
 The EPA is monitoring air quality at different sites for
toxins from the spill and assessing ground water. More vacuum
trucks and containment boom will be deployed in the cleanup.  
 Wildlife officials said some geese, two swans, a duck and
some turtles that were coated with oil residue have been taken
to a refuge for cleanup. More animals and birds are expected.  
 The pipeline carries crude-oil products to refiners in the
Midwest from the oil sands of northeastern Alberta. It can also
carry petroleum products from refineries along the route through
Ontario and Quebec.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        