-- EPA Rejects Challenges to Finding That Climate Change Is Threat to Health
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-07-29T20:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/epa-rejects-challenges-to-finding-that-climate-change-is-threat-to-health.html

          
          
             The Obama administration rejected
challenges to its finding last year that climate change caused
by emissions of greenhouse gases is a danger to public health.  
 The Environmental Protection Agency found that 10 petitions
contesting the decision as flawed “provide no evidence to
undermine our determination,” Administrator  Lisa Jackson  said
today in a statement. Industry groups, including the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, have said the EPA’s carbon rules will be a
drag on the economy.  
 The agency’s action removes a potential obstacle barring
the U.S. from regulating carbon-dioxide emissions from cars,
trucks, power plants, oil refineries and factories under the
Clean Air Act. Congress has failed to pass legislation to limit
carbon emissions that would mandate pollution cuts by statute.  
 “Defenders of the status quo will try to slow our efforts
to get America running on clean energy,” Jackson said in a
statement. “A better solution would be to join the vast
majority of the American people who want to see more green jobs,
more clean energy innovation.”  
 Groups such as the Chamber, Pacific Legal Foundation and
Southeastern Legal Foundation asked the EPA to reconsider its
decision, announced Dec. 7, saying the finding was flawed or
that the agency erred in evaluating scientific evidence,
according to the EPA denial.  
 The America Petroleum Institute, which represents oil
companies, in December said the EPA rules will be “inefficient
and excessively costly.” The National Petrochemical and
Refiners Association, said the proposed rules are based on
“selective science.” Both groups are based in Washington.  
 ‘Bad Science’  
 “EPA’s denial was unwarranted and flies in the face of
thousands of pages of evidence showing that the finding was
based on bad science,” Ted Hadzi-Antich, an attorney with the
Pacific Legal Foundation, said in a statement. “Even worse, EPA
refused to allow its Science Advisory Board to review the
scientific evidence, casting a shadow over the entire regulatory
proceeding.”  
 Opponents of the decision cited unauthorized release of e-
mails at the U.K.’s University of East Anglia’s Climatic
Research Unit in November as proof of a conspiracy to manipulate
global temperature data, the EPA said. Earlier this month, the
most recent of three investigations of the matter, known as
climategate, found that while the honesty and rigor of the
scientists weren’t in doubt, they may used poor judgment in
actions such as deleting e-mails to avoid disclosure.  
 ‘Candid Discussion’  
 An EPA probe found that the leak revealed only “a candid
discussion of scientists.” Hundreds of e-mails stolen from the
university’s computers in November sparked criticism from
global-warming skeptics including U.S. Senator  James Inhofe , an
Oklahoma Republican, who said they provided evidence of data
being manipulated.  
 “EPA could have chosen to have an open, transparent
process to look at the implications of climategate,”
Inhofe said today in a statement. “But EPA chose instead to
dismiss legitimate concerns about data quality, transparency,
and billions of dollars of taxpayer-funded science as products
of ‘conspiracies.’”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Carbon-Dioxide Emissions  
                       
                         
                           Michael Crabtree/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Carbon-dioxide emissions flow from automobiles in traffic. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Carbon-dioxide emissions flow from automobiles in traffic. Photographer: Michael Crabtree/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
