-- Eramet Returns to First-Half Profit on Demand Rise, Sees Market Volatility
-- Firat Kayakiran
-- 2010-07-29T14:58:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/eramet-returns-to-first-half-profit-on-demand-rise-sees-market-volatility.html

          
          
             Eramet SA , operator of the world’s
biggest ferronickel plant, returned to profit in the first half
as demand and prices increased amid a global economic recovery.  
 The company posted first-half net income of 175 million
euros ($228 million), compared with a net loss of 213 million
euros a year earlier, Paris-based Eramet said in a statement
today. Sales rose 38 percent to 1.79 billion euros.  
 “The outlook for the second half of 2010 is uncertain,”
it said in the statement. “The Group’s markets are likely to be
volatile, given inventory reduction movements in particular.”  
 Global steel production is expected to slow in the third
quarter compared with the first half, when output expanded,
Eramet said. World production of stainless steel, the main
outlet for nickel, advanced 40 percent in the first half from a
year earlier, the company said. Production gained 28 percent in
China and 48 percent in the rest of the world, it said.  
 Eramet hired Rothschild to sell 10 percent of its manganese
unit in Gabon to the African country, Chief Financial Officer
 Jean-Didier Dujardin  said in an interview, without elaborating.
The government, seeking to raise its stake to 35 percent from 25
percent, is being advised by Gabon’s BGFI Bank, he said.  
 The sale of Comilog, 67 percent-owned by Eramet, “would be
done over several years,” Eramet Chief Executive Officer
 Patrick Buffet  told reporters at a briefing in Paris.  
 Eramet and Comilog may invest “several billions of euros”
in 4 to 5 years to develop the Mabounie deposit in Gabon, with
“attractive” resources in rare earths, uranium and niobium,
used in superconducting steel, he said.  
 Crack the Monopoly  
 The project may help to “crack” the control held by the
family of Bolivian President  Evo Morales , which has 90 to 95
percent of global reserves of niobium, he said.  
 While a proposal by Gabonese President  Ali Bongo  for the
country to take a stake in Eramet is welcome, “he needs to find
a seller” as the Duval family that controls 36.4 percent “has
no will to sell,” Buffet said.  
 Buffet plans “selective” acquisitions to boost Eramet’s
manganese and nickel operations, broaden its range of alloying
metals for steelmakers, set up bases in dollar and low-cost
areas and produce “special metals with high growth potential.”  
 Eramet, studying the Weda Bay nickel project in Indonesia,
expects to make a decision on the site with partners Mitsubishi
Corp. and PT Aneka Tambang in 2012. The “world class” deposit
may contain 6 million metric tons of nickel, Buffet said.  
 The  company  is able to develop businesses on its own, he
said, when asked about a French government proposal to regroup
some mining assets.  Areva SA , which holds 25.6 percent of
Eramet, has been considering selling the stake to the government
as it seeks funds for expansion and to pay down debt.  
 Eramet fell 1.4 percent to 220 euros by 4:12 p.m. in Paris
trading, giving it a market value of 5.8 billion euros.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Firat Kayakiran  in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        