-- Europe Economic Confidence Rises as Exports Improve
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-29T09:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/europe-economic-confidence-hits-two-year-high-as-german-unemployment-drops.html

          
          
             European confidence  in the economic
outlook rose to the highest in more than two years in July and
German  unemployment  declined for a 13th month as exports
sustained a recovery in the region.  
 An  index  of executive and consumer  sentiment  in the 16 euro
nations increased to 101.3 from 99 in June, the  European
Commission  in Brussels said today. That’s the highest since
March 2008. The  number of people  out of work in Germany fell a
seasonally adjusted 20,000 to 3.21 million, the lowest since
November 2008, the Federal Labor Agency said.  
 Europe’s economic prospects, dented by the Greece-led
budget crisis, are improving as companies from German bank
 Deutsche Bank AG  to French luxury-goods maker  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA  beat analysts’ profit estimates. Growth in
Europe’s  services and manufacturing industries  accelerated in
July and  Peter Loescher , chief executive officer of Siemens AG,
said today that he sees a “clear stabilization and a recovery
of the global economy.”  
 “July’s sharper-than-expected increase in economic
sentiment will further allay fears of a near-term double dip
recession in the eurozone and may give fresh support to the
euro,” said  Martin van Vliet , an economist at ING Group in
Amsterdam. Still, the “recovery is bound to lose steam in the
second half of the year” as global growth slows.  
 The euro was little changed after the confidence report.
Earlier, it rose to the highest since governments announced a
May 10 package to stop the sovereign debt crisis, climbing as
much as 0.7 percent to $1.3085. The euro has gained 6.8 percent
against the dollar this month.  
 German Jobless  
 Economists had  forecast  economic confidence to increase to
99.1 in July, according to the median of 26 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. In Germany, the adjusted jobless rate
fell to 7.6 percent from 7.7 percent.  
 The commission’s index is based on a survey of 130,000
managers and 40,000 consumers conducted in the first two weeks
of the month. A gauge of confidence among  consumers  rose to
minus 14 in July from minus 17 in June, the commission said.
 Manufacturing sentiment  increased to minus 4 from minus 6, while
confidence among services companies advanced to 6 from 4.  
 The euro is still 9 percent weaker against the dollar this
year, which has helped boost export growth by making European
goods more competitive abroad.  Siemens , Europe’s largest
engineering company, said today that quarterly income rose 40
percent.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest carmaker, today
reported its biggest quarterly profit in two years on rising
orders.  
 Export Outlook  
 Still, exporters may struggle to maintain their sales
growth if the world recovery loses momentum. China’s economic
expansion slowed in the second quarter and  industrial production 
cooled more than economists forecast in June. In the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, confidence among consumers dropped in
July to the lowest level in a year.  
 Today’s indicators “challenge the idea of a slowdown
likely taking place in the second half but there’s not enough
evidence to go against it,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief
European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “Until I get evidence of foreign demand picking up
again, I can’t change that view.”  
 The euro-region economy may lag behind other industrialized
economies this year, expanding just 1 percent, the International
Monetary Fund said on July 8. In Japan, the economy may grow 2.4
percent in 2010 while U.S. gross domestic product is seen
increasing 3.3 percent, the IMF forecast.  
 Take Off?  
 “I don’t feel that the economy is recovering very
quickly,” said  Charles Edelstenne , CEO at Dassault Aviation, a
maker of corporate jets and fighter planes, today. “But I think
all the same my experience from the past shows that, it’s always
the moment when we least expect it that things take off.”  
 For now, executives are cranking up their assembly lines.
Manufacturers’ capacity utilization rose to 77.4 percent in the
third quarter from 75.5 percent in the previous three months,
the commission said in today’s report. That’s the highest since
the fourth quarter of 2008.  
 A gauge measuring euro-area manufacturers’ expectations in
their  export orders  increased to minus 22 from minus 25 and an
indicator of employment expectations also increased. A gauge of
overall  order books  gained to minus 21 from minus 26.  
 In Italy,  business sentiment  also improved in July, the
Isae Institute in Rome said today. German  business confidence 
unexpectedly surged to a three-year high this month and the
number of  French jobseekers  declined in June.  
 Beating Forecasts  
 French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  today told
Bloomberg Television in an interview from Paris that she sees a
“serious pick-up” in global growth next year led by faster-
growing economies including China and India.  
 While Europe’s economy has largely relied on exports,
improving consumer optimism means households may become more
willing to spend.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Europe’s second-biggest
airline, said today that it tripled its quarterly operating
profit, topping analysts’ estimates, on a recovery for travel.  
 Bernard Arnault , chief executive officer of  LVMH , the
world’s largest maker of luxury goods, said on July 27 he’s
“fairly confident” about the second half after profit surged
53 percent in the year’s first six months.  Deutsche Bank ,
Germany’s largest bank, on the same day reported second-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 Momentum  
 “The current economic momentum is likely to continue over
the remainder of the year,” Deutsche Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann 
said in a letter to shareholders on July 27. “Worries about
industrialized countries sliding back into recession are
subsiding.”  
 To shore up investor confidence in the financial system,
finance chiefs have conducted stress tests on the European
banks. The Committee of European Banking Supervisors said on
July 23 that only seven of 91 EU banks failed the tests and
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on July 26
called them “a very important transparency exercise.”  
 “The tests have for sure been enough to restore investor
confidence,” ECB council member  Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez 
said on July 26. “In Europe, we need to work more in other
fields, not only in the field of financial institutions. We have
to work more on the national level to reduce fiscal deficits.”  
 Governments from Spain to Ireland have already stepped up
consolidation efforts to push down budget shortfalls. Greece,
which triggered the crisis with the revelation that its deficit
was more than four times the EU limit, has pledged to trim the
shortfall to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product this year,
from 13.6 percent last year.  
 Some executives remain skeptical about the strength of the
economic recovery.  Hans-Juergen Thaus , co-CEO of  Krones AG , the
world’s largest maker of bottling and packaging equipment, said
on July 28 that “one cannot say that things are back to rosy”
for the Neutraubling, Germany-based company.  
 “Too many uncertainties remain, such as growth in China,
the stability of the euro, the development of financial markets
and high government deficits,” Thaus said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Siemens AG chief executive officer Peter Loescher. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Siemens AG Chief Executive Officer Peter Loescher talks about the company's third-quarter profit and outlook for full-year earnings.
     Europe's largest engineering company raised its outlook after quarterly income rose 40 percent, beating analysts’ estimates. Loescher speaks from Munich with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
