-- Euro Rescue Fund Authorized to Sell Debt After Italy Parliament Backs Plan
-- Jeffrey Donovan
-- 2010-07-29T14:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/euro-rescue-fund-authorized-to-sell-debt-after-italy-parliament-backs-plan.html

          
          
             The European Union’s rescue fund for
the single-currency region is now authorized to sell debt after
Italy’s parliament approved the plan, putting into force a 440
billion-euro ($575 billion) backstop for the 16-nation economy.  
 The vote by lawmakers in Rome today means at least 90
percent of shareholders in the European Financial Stability
Facility have completed legislative approval. That threshold
allows the euro-area governments to issue the national
guarantees for any debt sold by the EFSF, European foreign
ministers said on June 8.  
 The Luxembourg-based EFSF, which would sell bonds backed by
the guarantees and use the funds to loan to nations that are
struggling to borrow, is the main part of a 750 billion-euro
package designed to combat a sovereign-debt crisis triggered by
Greece’s near default. The package has helped calm markets, with
the  yield premium  investors demand to buy Spanish and Portuguese
bonds over German debt falling 64 basis points and 36 basis
points, respectively, since the fund was finalized on June 8.  
 The EFSF could roil markets if it’s forced to lead a
bailout and sell debt near its borrowing limit, said  Frank Will ,
head of frequent borrower strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London. While the EFSF may be able to raise as much
as 50 billion euros, “I can’t see that there will be enough
investor demand for large volumes, such as 200 billion to 300
billion euros, let alone 440 billion if the euro area is in deep
trouble,” he said.  
 ‘Tricky Situations’  
 EFSF bonds could “crowd out borrowing by some euro-zone
member countries in ways which are very difficult to predict at
this stage,” said  Marco Annunziata , chief economist for
UniCredit SpA in London. There may also be “tricky situations
when some of the countries issuing guarantees could themselves
need to tap the fund,” he said.  
 EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said on June 2 that he hoped the “sheer size” of the fund, a
special purpose vehicle being created for three years, “will
help to stabilize markets” and make aid unnecessary. While the
facility will provide aid only to national governments, the
money can also be used to recapitalize banks, EFSF Chief
Executive Officer  Klaus Regling  said in an interview published
by Paris-based newspaper Les Echo on July 15.  
 Top Rating?  
 Regling  has said he expects the EFSF, whose bonds would be
eligible for European Central Bank refinancing operations, to
get a top AAA credit rating. The full aid package includes
another 60 billion euros from the European Commission, and the
International Monetary Fund is expected to contribute 250
billion euros.  
 To ensure the highest rating, European finance ministers on
June 8 approved a 120 percent guarantee of each country’s pro
rata share for each bond issue. Each nation’s holding in the
EFSF corresponds to its share in the ECB’s capital.  
 “It’s not at all clear to me how easily the EFSF can
secure a AAA rating, when the ratings of a number of
participating countries are lower, and in some cases falling,”
Annunziata said today by e-mail.  
 European finance ministers also authorized the creation,
when any loans are made, of a “cash reserve to provide an
additional cushion or cash buffer for the operation of the
EFSF,” according to a June 8 statement, which held out the
prospect of further measures to improve creditworthiness.  
 European governments approved the unprecedented financial
backstop on May 9-10 in a bid to end speculation that the euro
area might break apart because of the debt crisis that started
in Greece. A 110 billion-euro loan package for Greece unveiled
on May 2 after the country was cut off from markets had failed
to stem a surge in Portuguese and Spanish borrowing costs.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        