-- Europe Lagging U.S., China on Biofuels Use, Novozymes CEO Says
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/europe-lagging-u-s-and-china-in-developing-biofuels-novozymes-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Europe is lagging the U.S., China
and Brazil in developing biofuels for transportation because of
a lack of political direction,  Novozymes A/S  Chief Executive
Officer  Steen Riisgaard  said.  
 Brazil aims to displace 10 percent of global gasoline use
with ethanol by 2020; China is testing corn-based ethanol in
nine provinces; and the U.S. has set fuel standards requiring
ethanol use, said Riisgaard, whose companies is the world’s
biggest maker of enzymes used to refine biofuels.  
 “Brazil knows what it wants to do,” Riisgaard said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s office in London. “In the United
States, similarly, they have a renewable fuels standard -- they
know what they want to do. You go to China: the government knows
what it wants to do. They have a plan. You come to Europe and
there’s not this kind of political direction. We don’t know what
we want to do.”  
 Novozymes estimates ethanol from crops, agricultural waste
and grasses can cut greenhouse gas emissions by 90 percent
relative to gasoline. The Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based company draws
17 percent of its revenue from selling enzymes used to speed up
the reactions in producing biofuels.  
 Novozymes is working with more than 30 companies around the
world including Poet LLC, the largest U.S. ethanol producer,
Dedini S/A Indústrias de Base, a Brazilian maker of biofuels
equipment, Cofco Ltd., China’s largest grain trader and China
Petrochemical Corp., known as Sinopec, which is the nation’s
second-largest oil producer.  
 Debate in Europe  
 The 27-nation European Union has set itself a target of
deriving 10 percent of its transportation fuel from biofuels by
2020. The push for the fuels is clouded by a debate over whether
biofuel production is competing with farmland used for food
crops, “which is not relevant when you talk about residues from
agriculture” that will be used to make the next generation of
biofuels, Riisgaard said.  
 So-called second-generation biofuels, which come from
grasses and crop waste rather than the crops themselves, can be
competitive with current ethanol and gasoline within five years
without government subsidy, Riisgaard said. With support, the
new fuels will be competitive next year, he said.  
 Poet, based in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, plans to open a
new plant next year using enzymes developed by Novozymes to make
biofuels, he said.  
 “They say that in that facility they will be able to
produce at less than $2 per gallon,” Riisgaard said. “The
corn-based fuel ethanol today is roughly $1.80, so it’s not
quite there, but under the U.S. subsidy regime, which is more
favourable for cellulosic, it is certainly a competitive
price.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        