-- European Stocks Climb; Capgemini, Telefonica Lead Advance
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-07-29T17:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/european-stock-index-futures-advance-siemens-basf-may-gain-on-earnings.html

          
          
             European stocks  fell for a second
day as food and basic-resource companies retreated and concern
mounted that tomorrow’s U.S. gross domestic product report may
show growth slowed in the world’s largest economy.  
 Nestle SA and Unilever slid more than 1.5 percent after
U.S. rivals Kellogg Co. and Colgate-Palmolive Co. reported
revenue that missed estimates. Vallourec SA dropped 3.1 percent
after saying a recovery in the steel industry will slow.
 Telefonica SA , Europe’s second-biggest phone company, and Cap
Gemini SA, the region’s largest computer-services company,
gained more than 3 percent on increased earnings.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slid 0.4 percent to 256.26 at
the 4:50 p.m. close in London, erasing gains in the last hour of
trading. The gauge has declined 5.8 percent from this year’s
high on April 15 amid concern that austerity measures from
indebted European governments will harm the economic recovery.  
 “With U.S. GDP data due out tomorrow a more cautious tone
has prevailed,” said  David Jones , London-based chief market
strategist at IG Index. “With the strength of economic recovery
still something of a hot potato for investors, it’s not
surprising that plenty are deciding to stay out of the market
until this release is out of the way.”  
 The Federal Reserve said yesterday in its Beige Book
business survey that U.S. economic growth slackened in some
areas over the past two months, dragged down by commercial real
estate and the expiration of a tax credit for homebuyers.  
 U.S. Economy  
 The central bank’s report followed data this week on
durable-goods orders and consumer confidence that trailed
economists’ forecasts, fueling concern that the U.S. recovery
may be stalling.  
 Tomorrow’s GDP report may show the U.S. economy grew at an
annual rate of 2.6 percent in the second quarter, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists. That follows a 2.7 percent
increase in the first quarter.  
 National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX lost 0.7 percent and France’s
 CAC 40  dropped 0.5 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 slipped 0.1
percent.  
 Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, fell 1.7 percent
to 51.65 Swiss francs, the biggest drop in four weeks and
Unilever, the second-largest consumer goods company, slid 2.4
percent to 1,821 pence.  
 Kellogg, the biggest U.S. maker of breakfast cereal, and
Colgate, the largest toothpaste maker, reported sales that
missed analysts’ projections.  
 Steelmakers Drop  
 Vallourec, a French producer of steel pipes for the oil and
gas industry, slumped 3.1 percent to 77.02 euros after saying a
recovery in the steel industry would slow, hurting second-half
earnings.  
 Norsk Hydro ASA, Europe’s third-largest aluminum maker,
tumbled 5 percent to 32.04 kroner, the biggest drop since
February. ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, dropped
2.2 percent to 23.67 euros.  
 Statoil ASA dropped 4.1 percent to 126 kroner as Norway’s
largest oil and gas company cut its production forecast for 2012
and reported profit that missed estimates.  
 Neste Oil Oyj retreated 5.8 percent to 11.60 euros after
Finland’s only oil refiner reported a wider-than-expected
second-quarter net loss.  
 Puma AG plunged 6.1 percent to 221.60 euros as Europe’s
second-largest sporting-goods maker posted earnings that missed
estimates and canceled a forecast for pretax profit.  
 Telecinco, Peugeot  
 Gestevision Telecinco SA dropped 6.8 percent to 8.88 euros,
the biggest decline this month, as Spain’s largest commercial
television station reported earnings that missed estimates.  
 BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research cut its recommendation
on the shares to “underperform” from “neutral.”  
 PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-biggest carmaker,
dropped 3 percent to 23.15 euros after also being downgraded to
“underperform” from “neutral” at BofA Merrill.  
 Telefonica advanced 3.2 percent to 17.55 euros after
posting a 16 percent gain in second-quarter profit on units in
Latin America.  Net income  rose to 2.12 billion euros ($2.8
billion), topping the 1.94 billion-euro average of 13 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  
 Cap Gemini soared 7.3 percent to 36.35 euros after
increasing its profitability forecast as first-half net income
rose. Operating margin “should exceed 6.5 percent” for 2010 as
a whole, the Paris-based company said. Cap Gemini had earlier
targeted a margin rate between 6 percent and 6.5 percent.  
 Volkswagen, France Telecom  
 Volkswagen AG ’s preferred shares climbed 3.1 percent to
80.99 euros. Europe’s largest carmaker reported the biggest
quarterly profit in two years on higher demand in China and the
U.S. for the Golf compact and Audi A5 coupe.  
 France Telecom SA jumped 5.5 percent to 16 euros. The
country’s biggest phone operator said it will maintain its per-
share annual dividend of 1.40 euros through 2012 as second-
quarter profit slipped 2.5 percent.  
 AstraZeneca Plc rallied 2.7 percent to 3,289 pence after
winning U.S. backing to sell its experimental blood-thinner
Brilinta. The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker also reported
second-quarter earnings that exceeded estimates, raised its
earnings forecast for the third time this year and doubled a
share buyback plan.  
 PartyGaming Plc soared 20 percent to 309.5 pence after
agreeing to merge with Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG, an
Austrian online bookmaker. Bwin jumped 18 percent to 42 euros,
the biggest gain in 10 years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     AstraZeneca Plc chief executive officer David Brennan. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
