-- Euro Strengthens vs. the Dollar Amid U.S. Slowdown Concern
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-29T11:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/euro-advances-against-dollar-and-yen-on-concern-u-s-economy-is-slowing.html

          
          
             The euro rose to its highest level
since the region’s $1 trillion bailout was announced on May 10
as concern the U.S. recovery is slowing while Europe accelerates
spurred demand for the 16-nation currency.  
 The euro also strengthened versus the yen as a report
showed European confidence in the economic outlook rose to the
highest in more than two years in July. The single currency has
been pushed higher this week as stress tests released July 23
found only seven European banks needed to raise capital.
Economists say data released tomorrow will show slowing U.S.
gross domestic product growth.  
 “The U.S. economy appears to be losing momentum, and
that’s supporting the euro,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London.
“Conditions following the stress tests have become more
supportive for risk assets. That’s detrimental for safe-haven
currencies.”  
 The euro climbed 0.7 percent to $1.3085 at 6:51 a.m. in New
York. It reached a two-and-a-half-month high of $1.3088. The
single currency traded at 113.68 yen, erasing an earlier drop.
The yen strengthened 0.6 percent to 86.91 against the dollar.  
 New Zealand’s dollar fell for a third day after the central
bank said deteriorating growth will slow the pace of future
interest-rate increases. South Korea’s won dropped for a second
day on concern exports will falter and the central bank may
intervene to prevent gains in the currency.  
 Confidence Report  
 The euro stayed stronger after a report showed economic
confidence in the region rose more than forecast in July. An
 index  of executive and consumer sentiment in the 16 euro nations
rose to 101.3 from 99 in June, the European Commission in
Brussels said today. That’s the highest since March 2008.
Economists had forecast an increase to 99.1 in July, according
to the median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  
 U.S. economic growth slowed to an annual 2.5 percent pace
last quarter, from 2.7 percent the previous three months,
according to a Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s Commerce
Department report.  
 “Sentiment is beginning to build that the U.S. economy is
slowing as stimulus measures are being removed,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp.
in London. “The U.S. is in a precarious position, fiscally
speaking. There’s a steady drip of negative news that’s pushing
people away from the dollar.”  
 The euro has strengthened 2.7 percent this month against
its developed-world counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices. It has dropped 7.6
percent this year. The dollar has gained 2.1 percent this year,
and the yen has advanced 10 percent, the biggest gainer in the
group, the indices show.  
 Kiwi Falls  
 The yen typically strengthens in times of financial
turmoil. Japan’s trade surplus makes the currency attractive as
it means the nation doesn’t have to rely on overseas lenders.  
 New Zealand’s dollar fell against 12 of the 16 other major
currencies. Central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  raised borrowing
costs for a second month and said the “pace and extent” of
future increases would be more moderate than earlier projected.  
 “The statement is more dovish than in June and the market
largely expected it to be unchanged,” said  Imre Speizer , a
market strategist in Wellington at Westpac Banking Corp.,
Australia’s second-largest lender. “The kiwi dollar is being
sold on that. We’re likely to see further hikes in the next few
meetings before consideration of a pause.”  
 The currency’s recent gains are “inconsistent with the
softening in New Zealand’s economic outlook and moderation in
our export commodity prices,” Bollard said today in Wellington
after increasing rates.  
 New Zealand posted a trade surplus of NZ$276 million ($200
million) for June, Statistics New Zealand said today, less than
the NZ$368 million forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Higher Yields  
 The benchmark rate of 3 percent in New Zealand compares to
4.5 percent for Australia and levels of 0.1 percent in Japan and
as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the South
Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets.  
 New Zealand’s dollar traded at 72.85 U.S. cents from 72.73
cents yesterday, after falling as much as 1 percent to 72.02
cents and dropped 0.3 percent to 63.43 yen.  
 The Korean won slipped 0.2 percent to 1,186.50 per dollar.
It rose to a five-week high of 1,181.33 on July 27 before
retreating yesterday as traders said the central bank bought
dollars to counter the won’s appreciation. The Bank of Korea
said an index measuring manufacturers’ expectations fell to 102
for August from 104 for July.  
 “Concern the recovery is slowing is bringing risk aversion
back,” said  Seo Jeong Hun , chief economist at Korea Exchange
Bank in Seoul. “The possibility of intervention also exists,
but exporters may try to repatriate income so won declines
should be limited.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Japanese yen notes and Euro notes. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/ Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
