-- European Stocks Upgraded at UBS on Economy, Earnings; U.S. Equities Cut
-- Francesca Angelini
-- 2010-07-29T10:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/european-stocks-upgraded-at-ubs-on-economy-earnings-u-s-equities-cut.html

          
          
             Investors should increase their
holdings in European stocks as improving economic data and
company earnings point toward a sustained recovery, UBS AG
equity strategists said.  
 The brokerage upgraded European stocks to “neutral” from
“underweight,” according to a report by Stamford, Connecticut-
based strategist  Jeffrey Palma  dated yesterday. U.S. shares were
cut to “neutral” and Japanese equities were downgraded to
“underweight.” Both regions were previously rated
“overweight.”  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  has climbed 11 percent from this
year’s low in May as reports showed European confidence in the
economic outlook rose to the highest level in more than two
years and German unemployment declined for a 13th month. A
 measure of European banking shares  has risen to a three-month
high as UBS AG and  Deutsche Bank AG  reported earnings that
surpassed analysts’ estimates and European Union stress tests
reassured investors that the majority of the region’s lenders
are adequately capitalized.  
 “Risk appetite has begun to recover,” Palma wrote in the
report. “Earnings have been robust, European stress tests
(while not as tough as hoped) did not deliver negative
surprises, European macro data have surprised to the upside, and
China appears to be taking its foot off the brakes.”  
 $1 Trillion Package  
 In May, EU and International Monetary Fund policy makers
unveiled an unprecedented loan package worth almost $1 trillion
to support Europe’s weakest economies after the euro dropped to
a 14-month low and bond yields in Portugal and Spain soared.  
 “Immediate fears over an impending sovereign debt crisis
and contagion effects in Europe have eased, largely due to the
liquidity vehicle set up by the EU and the IMF,” Palma wrote.
“Economic conditions in Europe continue to improve.”  
 UBS raised its stance on materials shares to “overweight”
from “neutral” in its global portfolio as China eases its
policy tightening and risk appetite improves. Healthcare was
downgraded to “neutral” from “overweight” as government
regulation and cost pressures damp performance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Angelini  in London 
 fangelini1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        