-- Ex-Alabama County Official Sentenced to 10 Years in Sewer-System Bribery
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-29T20:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/ex-alabama-county-official-sentenced-to-10-years-in-sewer-system-bribery.html

          
          
             A former  Jefferson County, Alabama ,
commissioner was sentenced to 10 years in prison for accepting
bribes from an engineering firm that worked on a $3 billion
sewer system that nearly bankrupted the county.  
 Gary White, who oversaw the county’s environmental services
department, was sentenced today in Tuscaloosa by U.S. District
Judge  Scott Coogler  on a 2008 conviction for taking cash in
exchange for awarding $11 million in no-bid sewer contracts,
according to a  press release  from U.S. Attorney Joyce White
Vance.  
 “Substantial prison time is absolutely deserved in a case
where a public official solicits and receives regular cash
payments in return for doling out millions of dollars in
government contracts,” Vance said.  
 White, a Republican, is the second Jefferson County
official in less than a year to be sentenced for corruption
related to the sewer system.  Larry Langford , the former
Democratic president of the county commission, is serving a 15-
year term for taking bribes in connection with a refinancing of
sewer debt.  
 Langford was convicted last year of taking more than
$200,000 in money, designer clothes and jewelry from an
investment banker who made more than $7 million in bond and
derivatives fees.  
 Refinancing Collapse  
 Jefferson County’s sewer refinancing arranged in 2002 and
2003 by  JPMorgan Chase & Co . collapsed in 2008 when companies
guaranteeing the floating-rate debt lost their top credit
ratings because of losses on unrelated mortgage-backed
securities. Interest rates on the sewer bonds rose to as much as
10 percent and derivatives tied to the debt worsened the crisis
by further increasing borrowing costs.  
 A federal jury in January 2008 convicted White of taking
cash in white envelopes from Sohan Singh, the president of U.S.
Infrastructure Inc., according to the U.S. attorney. The company
had a total of $50 million in contracts with the county.  
 White’s sentencing was delayed after he sought a new trial.
An appeals court in December reinstated the convictions,
according to Vance’s statement.  
 At least 21 contractors and former county officials have
been indicted or convicted of federal crimes in the building and
financing of the sewer system.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        