-- Ex-Hevesi Aide Faces Trial on Most Counts in New York Pension-Fund Probe
-- Karen Freifeld
-- 2010-07-29T20:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/ex-hevesi-adviser-gets-some-charges-dropped-in-new-york-pension-probe.html

          
          
             Henry “Hank” Morris , the former
chief political adviser to New York’s ex-comptroller, must go to
trial on most of the 90 charges against him stemming from a
probe of the state’s pension fund, a judge ruled.  
 Morris, who advised former Comptroller  Alan Hevesi , is
accused of corrupting the investment process at the pension fund
to favor deals that would benefit himself, his associates and
contributors to Hevesi’s campaign. Hevesi hasn’t been accused of
wrongdoing in the case.  
 State Supreme Court Justice  Lewis Bart Stone  in Manhattan
today threw out 13 counts, including grand larceny and
falsifying documents. Morris still faces an enterprise
corruption charge that carries a prison term of as long as 25
years.  
 The grand jury heard “sufficient evidence” to sustain
most of the charges, Stone wrote in his decision. The grand
jurors were given evidence that Morris created a corrupt
operation in which investment funds were chosen because managers
“agreed to pay placement fees or share management fees with
Morris rather than solely on the prudent investor rule,” the
judge said.  
 William Schwartz, an attorney for Morris, declined to
comment as he left the courtroom.  
 Fund Corruption  
 The Morris case is at the center of New York Attorney
General  Andrew Cuomo ’s investigation of corruption at the state
retirement fund. Six people have pleaded guilty to criminal
charges in the probe, including  David Loglisci , former chief
investment officer at the pension fund.  
 Fifteen firms have settled and agreed to a code of conduct
drafted by Cuomo that bans so-called placement agents from
obtaining investments from public pension funds and limits
campaign contributions to those with the power to assign
investment business.  
 In sustaining the criminal enterprise charge, Stone said
Loglisci sometimes let it be known a fund could only win an
investment by retaining Searle & Co., the broker-dealer Morris
was associated with, as a placement agent.  
 Other times, funds seeking investments on “cold calls” to
Loglisci received calls from Morris offering his services as a
placement agent, according to the decision.  
 ‘Shut Out’  
 “Funds which would not hire Morris or his designees were
shut out” of investments, the judge wrote.  
 The grand jury had enough evidence to support its finding
of a criminal enterprise, the judge wrote, noting the panel
found Morris’s “group” participated in 19 separate alternative
investments generating $35 million in placement fees, with
Morris, or entities owned, taking $19 million of it.  
 In refusing to dismiss New York securities fraud charges
against Morris, Stone said that the adviser’s “toll gate”
scheme may have caused an economic loss to the state retirement
fund.  
 The judge dismissed grand larceny counts involving Odyssey
Investment Partners III and Access/NY European Fund. He said
there was insufficient evidence to establish any loss to the
funds.  
 The judge also kept counts of bribery and rewarding
official misconduct involving $100,000 Morris gave to actress
Peggy Lipton Jones, best known for her role in the TV show,
“The Mod Squad.” He said she got some of the money through
cash-filled envelopes placed on the chair of a “friend”
described as a senior official in the comptroller’s office.  
 The judge said while Lipton Jones signed notes documenting
the money as loans, she understood they were not required to be
repaid.  
 Scott Fein, an attorney for Lipton Jones, did not
immediately return a call for comment.  
 ‘Chooch’ Movie  
 The judge also left intact a rewarding official misconduct
charge against Morris involving the low-budget film, “Chooch,”
produced by Loglisci’s brother.  
 The judge said he took into account “evidence of the deep
involvement of the entire Loglisci family in the venture” and
that the vast majority of non-Loglisci funding of “Chooch”
came from people doing business with the retirement fund.  
 The judge added that it’s so well understood investments in
entertainment enterprises may yield no return that it was the
basis for the Mel Brooks’ comic movie, “The Producers.”  
 The case is People v. Morris, 0025/2009, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Freifeld  in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        