-- Mexico's Two Biggest Parties Favor Expanding Sales Tax to Bolster Revenue
-- Adriana Lopez Caraveo
-- 2010-07-29T20:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/mexico-s-two-biggest-parties-favor-expanding-sales-tax-to-bolster-revenue.html

          
          
             Mexican lawmakers from the largest
two parties in the  lower house  of congress said they favor
broadening the tax base this year by putting sales levies on
products that are currently exempt, such as food and medicine.  
 Lawmakers for the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or
PRI, favor including such measures in the 2011 budget to
strengthen public finances amid falling oil output,  David Penchyna , one of two ranking members from the PRI on the lower
house’s finance committee, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Mexico City office. The party is the largest in the lower house.  
 Legislators from President  Felipe Calderon ’s National
Action Party, or PAN, may also expand the sales tax to food and
medicine in their budget proposal, which will be separate from
the president’s, Carlos Alberto Perez, vice coordinator of the
party in the lower house, said in the same interview.  
 Mexican officials have discussed expanding the tax base for
years, and taxing food and medicine has long been a
controversial political issue. Last year, Calderon’s plan to tax
food and medicine was rejected by lawmakers. Congress instead
boosted the sales tax, which excludes food and medicine, to 16
percent from 15 percent and approved higher income taxes.  
 Calderon must submit to Congress by Sept. 8 his 2011 budget
proposal.  
 ‘Deep Reform’  
 The PRI favors taxing some foods at lower rates and keeping
a basket of basic foods exempt in order to reduce costs for the
poor, Penchyna said.  
 “We haven’t had a deep reform in the Mexican fiscal
system for many decades,” Penchyna said. “I’m in favor of
making this happen in the next legislative period.”  
 Penchyna declined to say which PRI lawmakers may formally
propose the changes. He said there were “many” party members
that agreed with the plan.  
 Investors, economists and ratings agencies have urged
Mexico to broaden its tax base to include products and
industries that currently get breaks in order to make up for the
decline in oil production. Production at state-owned Petroleos
Mexicanos, or Pemex, fell on an annual basis every month for
almost four years until it rose 1.1 percent in June from a year
earlier.  
 Still, it will be difficult for lawmakers to approve new
taxes because disputes among political parties are increasing as
the race for 2012 presidential election draws closer and after
parties clashed over alliances formed for July 4 gubernatorial
elections, Armando Rios, a lawmaker for the opposition Party of
the Democratic Revolution, or PRD, said in the same interview.  
 Tax Loopholes  
 The PRD, which is the third-largest party in the lower
house, favors measures to make budgetary spending more efficient
and to cut tax loopholes for industries such as transportation,
said Rios, who is one of two ranking members from the PRD on the
finance committee.  
 “We have industries that are privileged and that aren’t
contributing what they should be,” said Rios, 37.  
 In addition to the sales tax proposal, PRI lawmakers also
favor including in the budget package measures to boost access
to credit and measures to change laws governing development
banks, Penchyna said.  
 The possibility that the PRI may take back the presidency
in 2012 gives the party more reason to improve tax laws
beforehand, Penchyna said.  
 2012 Elections  
 Enrique Pena Nieto , governor of the State of Mexico and a
PRI member, is the leading candidate for presidential elections,
according to a poll released June 14 by Mexico City-based
polling group Consulta Mitofsky.  
 The 2011 budget will likely call for spending, a deficit,
and an expected oil price similar to the 2010 budget if
lawmakers don’t pass legislation to change tax law, Penchyna
said.  
 The forecast for the price of oil will probably be between
$59 and $70 per barrel, and spending will likely increase in a
manner proportional to expected economic growth, he said.  
 The  2010 budget  called for 3.18 trillion pesos ($244
billion) in spending and a deficit of 0.75 percent of gross
domestic product excluding debt from Pemex. The deficit, which
was 2.8 percent of GDP including Pemex debt, was the largest in
more than two decades.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adriana Lopez Caraveo  in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net ;
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        