-- Mexico Journalists Kidnapped as Drug Cartels Threaten Freedom of Speech
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-29T20:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/mexico-journalists-kidnapped-as-drug-cartels-threaten-freedom-of-speech.html

          
          
             Mexican gang members took at least
three journalists hostage this week in Durango state after the
reporters investigated alleged links between prison officials
and drug groups, the state attorney general’s office said.  
 The kidnappers haven’t yet demanded a monetary payoff, said
Ruben Lopez, a spokesman for the attorney general’s office, in a
telephone interview. Officials are seeking to confirm whether a
fourth missing reporter is among the group, he said.  
 The kidnappings show Mexico’s drug cartels are growing
increasingly violent and forcing members of the media to
practice self censorship for their own safety, according to
Carlos Lauria, a spokesman for the Americas division of the New
York-based  Committee  to Protect Journalists.  
 “This is yet another indication of the deep crisis that
Mexico is going through in terms of freedom of expression,” he
said today in a telephone interview from New York.  
 The three confirmed victims include two cameramen from
television station Televisa, according to Lopez. Televisa
spokesman Miguel Angel Zapata declined to comment.  
 Police found the vehicle of a third victim abandoned and
charred from a fire, Lopez said.  
 The kidnappers demanded that the journalists’ employers air
videos that aim to show ties between local police and the Zetas
drug gang, according to news station Milenio. The videos aired
this week on an early morning broadcast, the news organization
said on its website.  
 Rising Kidnappings  
 Mexico has reported almost 25,000 deaths related to
organized crime since President  Felipe Calderon  took office in
December 2006. At least 30 journalists have been killed or
disappeared in the period, according to the Committee to Protect
Journalists.  
 The government estimates violence shaves one percentage
point from gross domestic product each year.  
 Kidnappings in Mexico rose to 1,059 in the first 10 months
of 2009 from 323 in 2004, according to the latest report by the
group Mexico United Against Crime, which cites data from the
Ministry of Public Security. The federal government doesn’t
regularly release kidnapping data.  
 The abducted journalists were in the region to investigate
prison officials who may have let prisoners out to commit
violent crimes, according to the state attorney general’s
office.  
 Prisoners at the Gomez Palacio jail are suspected of
gunning down 17 people at a party in northern Torreon, Coahuila
state, with the consent of guards who lent them weapons,
according to  Ricardo Najera , spokesman for the federal attorney
general’s office.  
 ‘Settling the Score’  
 The jail is in the state of Durango, which shares a border
with Coahuila, where the killings took place.  
 “The criminals committed the killings as a way of settling
the score with members of rival organized crime gangs,” Najera
said, according to an e-mailed statement. “The delinquents
cowardly killed innocent civilians, only to later return to
their cells.”  
 Gangs in Mexico have also targeted political figures. Ex-
senator and former presidential candidate  Diego Fernandez de Cevallos  was reported missing May 15 from his ranch in the
central state of Queretaro and has yet to be reported found.  
 Fernandez de Cevallos appeared blindfolded this week in
photographs posted on Twitter and reported in Mexican media. The
photos were accompanied by a message from his apparent
kidnappers, who demand $50 million in ransom.  
 Business Impact  
 The leading candidate for governor in the Mexican border
state of Tamaulipas, Rodolfo Torre, was gunned down last month
less than a week before elections.  
 “There’s a climate of fear and intimidation that makes it
very difficult to report on issues vital to the public,” said
Lauria of the press rights group.  
 The impact of violence is the biggest threat to the Mexican
economy, according to 57 percent of Mexican executives, up from
49 percent in March and 22 percent in December 2009, a  survey 
published this month by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu showed.  
 The second-most cited concern was a U.S. economic slowdown,
according to the June 7-29 poll of 381 Mexican business leaders.  
 The U.S. government has delivered only about 9 percent of
the $1.6 billion in drug-war aid promised to Mexico through the
2008 Merida Initiative, the U.S. Government Accountability
Office said in a July 21 report to Congress.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        