-- Exxon Mobil Second-Quarter Profit Climbs After Oil Prices Rise
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-29T20:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/exxon-mobil-second-quarter-profit-exceeds-estimates-after-oil-prices-rise.html

          
          
             Exxon Mobil Corp.  posted its biggest
profit increase since 2003, exceeding analysts’ estimates, as
rising production helped the largest U.S. oil company take
advantage of gains in energy prices.  
 Second-quarter net income jumped 91 percent to $7.56
billion, or $1.60 a share, from $3.95 billion, or 81 cents, a
year earlier, Irving, Texas-based  Exxon  said today in a
statement. Per-share profit was 15 cents higher than the average
of 17 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Exxon and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s biggest energy
company, capitalized on jumps in oil and fuel prices by boosting
production. Exxon’s output climbed 8.4 percent to the equivalent
of 4 million barrels of oil a day. Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  ramped up capital spending to more than $70 million a
day since 2008, ending a slide that left production at the
lowest level since the 1999 acquisition of Mobil Corp.  
 “The law of large numbers says the bigger you are, the
harder it is to grow,” said  Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus
Research in New York who has a “buy” rating on Exxon shares
and doesn’t own any. “If they can deliver higher production,
that’s a big plus because that means that they’re going to be
delivering more income and cash flow.”  
 Exxon , which rose as much as 1.6 percent after its earnings
report was released this morning, fell 57 cents to $60.34 as of
the 4 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Shell dropped 0.2 percent in London. Exxon has 12 buy  ratings 
from analysts, 11 holds and 1 sell.  
 Profit Gains  
 Exxon ’s profit increase was its largest since the first
quarter of 2003. Revenue rose 24 percent to $92.5 billion.  
 Shell, based in The Hague, said today that its  profit  rose
15 percent to $4.39 billion, and the company reported a 5
percent gain in output.  
 Worldwide demand for crude in the second quarter rose an
estimated 3.2 percent from a year earlier, according to the
International Energy Agency in Paris. U.S. crude-oil futures
averaged $78.05 a barrel, up 31 percent.  
 Profit from oil and natural-gas  wells  at Exxon jumped 40
percent to $5.34 billion in the second quarter. Refining
earnings more than doubled to $1.22 billion, and profit from
chemicals plants more than tripled, the company said.  
 “The production growth was the strongest in a while,”
said  Brian Youngberg , an analyst at Edward Jones in St. Louis
who has a “hold” rating on Exxon shares and doesn’t own any.
“You combine that with refining margins being up in the
industry and higher commodity prices, Exxon Mobil, like its
peers, beat expectations.”  
 XTO Acquisition  
 Exxon said July 8 that it plans to buy back $3 billion of
its shares this quarter following its acquisition last month of
natural-gas producer  XTO Energy Inc.  The transaction increased
outstanding shares at Exxon by about 9 percent. Exxon also said
it will look to pay off or refinance $11 billion of assumed
debt.  
 Exxon has said the XTO deal is a long-term bet that gas
from shale formations and other so-called unconventional
resources will meet rising U.S. demand through at least 2030 as
output from conventional wells falls.  
 “They’re going to take their XTO expertise and redeploy
them in their own properties and try to get more bang for their
bucks, and that’s what they are very well known for,” said
 Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York who has
a “market perform” rating on Exxon shares. He said low gas
prices have prevented the deal from helping the company’s stock.  
 Chevron Corp. , the second-largest U.S. energy company, is
scheduled to report earnings tomorrow.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Exxon Profit Rises Most Since 2003 as Output Climbs  
                       
                         
                           Ty Wright/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Exxon Mobil Corp. reported better-than-estimated profit so far in the second-quarter reporting season. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Exxon Mobil Corp. reported better-than-estimated profit so far in the second-quarter reporting season. Photographer: Ty Wright/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Pavel Molchanov, an energy analyst at Raymond James & Associates, discusses Exxon Mobil Corp.’s second-quarter profit reported today and the outlook for the company’s performance.
     The largest U.S. oil company said net income jumped 91 percent to $7.56 billion, or $1.60 a share, exceeding analyst estimates. Molchanov speaks with Carol Massar and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
