-- Berkowitz Bets on MBIA Survival as Financials Revive (Update1)
-- Christine Richard
-- 2010-07-29T20:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/fairholme-s-berkowitz-bets-on-mbia-survival-as-hated-financials-revive.html

          
          
             MBIA Inc. , the largest bond insurer,
will be a profitable investment for  Fairholme Capital Management 
LLC even if it can’t underwrite new business, said  Bruce Berkowitz , the founder of the $17 billion investment firm.  
 “Do they have the wherewithal even if they don’t write
another piece of business? Yes,” said Berkowitz, 52, who
disclosed an 11 percent  stake  in MBIA this month, making him the
second-largest shareholder of the Armonk, New York-based firm.  
 Investors are overestimating potential losses and
undervaluing MBIA even as the company is unable to write new
 contracts  insuring debt from cities and states more than two
years after being stripped of its top financial guarantee
ranking, Berkowitz said. Fairholme’s MBIA stake is part of a
broader wager on financial firms including American
International Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. that were pummeled
during the credit crisis.  
 “You have institutions, where there is tremendous fear,
disgust, hate. Where taxpayers, in some instances, have paid to
bail them out,” Berkowitz, who’s based in Miami, said in a
telephone interview. “The pricing reflects the pessimistic
attitude.”  
 Berkowitz, named in January as U.S. stock manager of the
decade by Morningstar Inc., is the second-largest shareholder
behind the U.S. government in AIG and ninth-biggest in New York-
based Citigroup, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Ratings Stripped  
 MBIA  shares  have more than doubled since the beginning of
the year as the company has continued to report a surplus
capital position. The firm also said it expects to be
compensated for losses on improperly underwritten mortgages that
Wall Street bundled into bonds it insured. MBIA  rose  10 cents,
or 1.16 percent, to $8.73 as of 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  
 The shares tumbled from a high of $73.31 reached in late
2006 as losses on home-loan securities mounted and Moody’s
Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s stripped the insurer of
its top credit grade in June 2008.  
 The structured finance unit, MBIA Insurance Corp., is now
ranked B3, six steps below investment grade, by Moody’s.  
 The shares are undervalued based on the company’s so-called
adjusted book value, Berkowitz said.  
 The figure, reported by the bond insurer at $36.01 a share
at the end of the first quarter, provides an indication of the
value of the company in the absence of any new business
activity, according to MBIA. The measure doesn’t comply with
generally accepted accounting principles.  
 ‘Rigorously Tested’  
 Regulators have “rigorously tested” the company’s loss
estimates, Berkowitz said, reducing the possibility that MBIA
will increase its projections for paying claims causing a
reduction in adjusted book value.  
 MBIA has reported that it expects to pay claims of $3.9
billion on structured finance securities linked to soured home
loans as of the end of March. The company has estimated it will
recover $1.9 billion against those claims through litigation
over ineligible mortgages used to back insured bonds, said  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman.  
 While Fairholme’s MBIA investment isn’t dependent on the
company restarting its municipal bond insurance underwriting,
Berkowitz anticipates the company will again back municipal debt
once it resolves a legal challenge over the split of its
insurance unit.  
 In February 2009, MBIA’s Chief Executive Officer  Jay Brown 
separated the municipal and structured finance businesses to
remove the uncertainty about claims on structured-finance
securities from its municipal bond insurance business.  
 Filed Suit  
 Brown created the National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.
to take over the municipal bond policies and MBIA Insurance
Corp. retained its structured-finance contracts.  
 In response, a group of financial institutions, such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup that had purchased
structured-finance guarantees from MBIA filed suit in New York
State Supreme Court in May 2009, arguing that management
unfairly removed $5 billion of capital from the insurer to start
National Public Finance.  
 “MBIA really can’t offer municipal bond insurance until
the issue of its transformation is resolved,” Berkowitz said,
because the pending litigation has depressed the company’s
 credit ratings , which determines the value of its insurance.  
 MBIA will win the lawsuit, resulting in a credit upgrade
and opening the door to resuming its municipal-bond business, he
said.  
 The firm has continued to pay policyholders, unlike some of
its former competitors, Berkowitz said.  
 “Any firm that kept its promises to its insureds, has a
reasonable chance of rebuilding its business,” Berkowitz said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bruce R. Berkowit of Fairholme Capital Management LLC. has disclosed an 11 percent stake in MBIA. Source: Fairholme Capital Management LLC via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
