-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Still Too Big to Nail: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2010-07-29T01:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-still-too-big-to-nail-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             The White House says it’s finally
ready to consider new ideas for what to do about  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac . Still absent from the government’s agenda is any
serious effort to hold anyone accountable for their ruin or
investigate why they collapsed.  
 Back in December 2003, after Freddie disclosed what in
retrospect was a relatively mild accounting scandal, its
regulator published an exhaustive 185-page  report  cataloguing
the company’s financial-reporting abuses. In May 2006, the same
regulator disclosed similar  findings  about Fannie’s books in a
report covering 348 pages.  
 Strangely, there’s no similar examination under way today
by the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  into the reasons why
Fannie and Freddie imploded in 2008, or whether anyone at the
companies did anything improper. That’s probably because the
agency and its predecessor, the Office of Federal Housing
Enterprise Oversight, bear responsibility for letting the
companies resume their natural tendency to run amok.  
 Other probes seem to be going nowhere. The federal panel
charged with investigating the companies’ demise, the Financial
Crisis Inquiry Commission, is overloaded with other assignments
and running out of money.  
 So here we go again. This month Congress passed the 2,323-
page Dodd-Frank Act without any clear understanding of why the
financial crisis happened -- and without doing a thing to
address Fannie and Freddie, which were central players. Now the
Obama administration says it will deliver a  reform proposal  to
Congress by January on the nation’s housing-finance system,
including Fannie and Freddie. Yet the government still hasn’t
undertaken any comprehensive inquiry into why these companies
blew up and who was at fault.  
 Phony Finances  
 The problem at Fannie and Freddie wasn’t merely their
status as government-sponsored enterprises, which earned large
profits for private shareholders in good times before sticking
taxpayers with massive losses. They also grossly misrepresented
their financial condition.  
 As recently as June 30, 2008, Fannie and Freddie showed
regulatory capital of $47 billion and $37.1 billion,
respectively, which the housing agency said was adequate. By
September 2008, the Treasury Department had deemed them
insolvent and forced them into conservatorship.  
 Part of the blame fell with the government’s faulty way of
measuring their capital. There’s more to it than that, though.
Both companies had refused to acknowledge huge losses on their
mortgage bonds and other assets long after those had become
obvious to outside investors. As former Treasury Secretary  Hank Paulson  wrote in his memoir, “On the Brink,” by September 2008
“each of the companies looked to have true, economic capital
holes amounting to tens of billions of dollars.”  
 Taxpayer Inheritance  
 The legacy for taxpayers is a Gordian knot no one knows how
to sever. The two companies have more than $5.6 trillion of
liabilities, combined. They’ve already drawn $145 billion from
their unlimited government credit line to stay afloat.  
 Without Fannie and Freddie, the housing market would be in
freefall instead of merely dismal. They own or guarantee most of
the new home loans being underwritten, driving  mortgage interest
rates  to record lows. Ending their subsidies, such as the
government’s guarantee of their debt, isn’t an immediate option.
Doing so now would shock the financial system back to the brink
of insolvency.  
 Meanwhile, there’s been so little done to get these
companies under control, they haven’t even been forced to change
outside auditors. Fannie still has Deloitte & Touche. Freddie
still uses PricewaterhouseCoopers. It’s enough to make you
wonder if anyone knows what their real numbers are.  
 Breeden Idea  
 Richard Breeden , the former Securities and Exchange
Commission chairman, offered a superb idea to the Senate Banking
Committee in February 2002 that, with a few simple tweaks, would
have addressed a big part of this problem. Unfortunately,
Congress failed to act on his advice when it passed the
Sarbanes-Oxley accounting-reform legislation later that year.  
 Whenever a public company files for bankruptcy or announces
a major earnings restatement shortly after receiving a clean
audit opinion, either the SEC or some alternative body should be
required to review whether the auditor complied with U.S.
auditing and accounting standards, Breeden  said . Moreover, the
findings should be released publicly. He drew a simple analogy:
When there’s an airplane crash, the National Transportation
Safety Board investigates the cause. Corporate crashes need the
same treatment.  
 Looking back, Breeden’s suggestion wasn’t quite broad
enough. We also need NTSB-style crash reports every time a major
U.S. financial institution requires government intervention,
regardless of whether it files for bankruptcy or restates
financial results.  
 Crash Review  
 We have a mechanism like this for banks seized by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Whenever an FDIC-insured lender
fails, the agency’s inspector general must issue a  report 
examining why it collapsed and whether banking regulators had
done their jobs appropriately. Similarly, the court-appointed
Lehman Brothers bankruptcy examiner,  Anton Valukas , in March
released a nine-volume  report  on the causes and culprits behind
Lehman’s downfall.  
 As things stand now, the public never will receive a
thorough, independent account explaining why Citigroup or
American International Group crumbled. Those companies continue
to operate as going concerns that technically didn’t fail,
thanks to taxpayer bailouts. Like Fannie and Freddie, they never
filed for bankruptcy.  
 Truth is, we still don’t know what we don’t know about the
reasons Fannie and Freddie cratered. After protecting them for
decades, it may be that some members of Congress such as
Democrat  Barney Frank  don’t want to know the whole story before
they rewrite the laws. The people responsible for running these
companies into the ground must be pleased.  
 ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Jonathan Weil  in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        