-- Pakistan Boost Rescue Effort After Flash Floods Kill 275, Destroys Homes
-- Anwar Shakir
-- 2010-07-30T06:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/flash-floods-leave-dozens-dead-in-pakistan-after-worst-storm-in-35-years.html

          
          
             Pakistan  stepped up rescue efforts
after flash floods and heavy rains in the northwest killed 291
people and left thousands stranded in the region’s worst storms.
Communication systems collapsed.  
 “We have 23 helicopters which are helping in relief and
rescue missions across the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province today,”
Amir Siddique, a spokesman for the National Disaster Management
Authority, a government agency, said by telephone from Islamabad
today.  
 The death toll is on top of the 152 people who died when a
plane crashed in heavy rains near the capital two days ago.
Homes and bridges collapsed in the rain, live electric wires
fell into the water and families were swept away in the floods
in the province, according to Mujahid Khan, a spokesman for the
Edhi Rescue Service.  
 “The infrastructure of this province was already destroyed
by terrorism,”  Mian Iftikhar Hussain , provincial information
minister, said in a televised news conference from Peshawar
yesterday. “Whatever was left, was finished off by these
floods. There are chances of further flooding and more damage.”
He appealed for tents, boats and food for those left homeless
and asked people to evacuate affected towns and cities.  
 Army Troops  
 Army troops equipped with life jackets, motorboats and
heavy rafts were called in to help move families to safe
locations, the military said in a statement on its  website 
yesterday. At least 400,000 people were stranded in cities and
villages across the province.  
 Pakistani television channels showed images of submerged
huts, collapsed bridges and people grabbing onto wreckage on
flooded roads to keep from being swept away by the water.  
 “All the houses in my village have been destroyed and now
it’s simply a fight for survival for us,” Mehmood Khan, a
tribal elder, said by telephone from Wana, South Waziristan.
“Food supplies have started to run out. We haven’t eaten in 48
hours and the scant food supplies we saved for women and
children may not last long.”  
 The districts of Peshawar, Swat, Nowshera, Lower Dir and
Charsadda were worst affected, according to the government.
Rains are forecast across the province today, according to the
country’s  weather office .  
 The water level in the River Swat crossed 250,000 cusecs
yesterday, the highest since 1929, according to the disaster
management agency. Of 55 Chinese engineers trapped in the
Kohistan district, 46 were rescued, it said.  
 The first spell of the monsoon started on July 22 and
affected the western province of Baluchistan, the disaster
authority said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 Kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Anwar Shakir in Peshawar at 
 Ashakir1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        