-- Foreclosure Filings Rise in 75% of U.S. Cities on Unemployment
-- Dan Levy
-- 2010-07-29T15:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/foreclosure-filings-rise-in-75-of-u-s-cities-as-joblessness-hurts-owners.html

          
          
             Foreclosure filings  climbed in
three-quarters of U.S. metropolitan areas in the first half as
high unemployment left many homeowners unable to pay their
mortgages, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  
 The number of properties receiving a filing more than
doubled from a year earlier in Baltimore, Oklahoma City and
Albuquerque, New Mexico, the mortgage-data company said today in
a report. Notices of default, auction or  bank seizure  rose more
than 50 percent in areas including Salt Lake City; Savannah,
Georgia; and Atlantic City, New Jersey.  
 “Foreclosures are spreading out from areas that had been
hardest hit,”  Rick Sharga , senior vice president for marketing
at Irvine, California-based RealtyTrac, said in a telephone
interview. “We’re dealing with underlying economic weakness as
opposed to unsustainable home prices and bad loans.”  
 Private employers added fewer jobs than economists
projected in June and the U.S. unemployment rate fell to 9.5
percent as discouraged job seekers stopped looking for work, the
Labor Department said July 2. The Commerce Department last month
reduced its estimate for first-quarter economic growth after
consumer spending grew less than previously forecast.  
 The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
unemployment insurance fell by 11,000 to 457,000 last week,
while the number continuing to collect jobless benefits rose to
4.565 million in the week ended July 17, Labor Department
figures showed today.  
 Delaying ‘Inevitable’  
 Continued weakness in employment and efforts to prevent
foreclosure may “delay the inevitable” and weigh on home
prices, RealtyTrac Chief Executive Officer  James J. Saccacio 
said in a statement.  
 The company said 154 of 206 U.S. metro areas with
populations of more than 200,000 had increases in households
with filings from January through June.  
 Cities in Nevada, Florida, California and Arizona accounted
for the 20 highest foreclosure rates. Nine of the top 10 metro
areas had decreases in the total properties receiving filings, a
sign that foreclosures may have peaked in the states hurt the
most by the housing market’s  collapse , RealtyTrac said.  
 Las Vegas had the highest rate as 6.6 percent of households
received a notice, while filings dropped 8.8 percent, the data
company said. Cape Coral-Fort Myers, Florida, was second at 5
percent of households. Filings fell 30 percent from a year
earlier.  
 California Filings  
 California  cities ranked third through fifth. Modesto had
4.6 percent of households get a notice, Merced had 4.5 percent
and Riverside-San Bernardino had 4.4 percent. Filings declined
14 percent in Modesto, 35 percent in Merced and 23 percent in
Riverside-San Bernardino.  
 Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach  led in total properties
with filings, at 94,466. That was up almost 11 percent from the
first half of 2009. Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana was second
with 93,263, down 12 percent. Chicago-Naperville-Joliet was
third with 78,022, up 23 percent, RealtyTrac said.  
 The company sells default data from more than 2,200
counties representing 90 percent of the U.S. population.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Levy  in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A "bank owned" sign sits outside a foreclosed home in the Mountain's Edge neighborhood of Las Vegas. Photographer: Jacob Kepler/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Rick Sharga, senior vice president for marketing at RealtyTrac Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about U.S. foreclosure filings.
     Foreclosures climbed in three-quarters of U.S. metropolitan areas in the first half as high unemployment left many homeowners unable to pay their mortgages, according to the Irvine, California-based mortgage-data company. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
