-- Former New Star Fund Manager Evershed Can Sue Over `Bullying,' Court Says
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-29T14:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/former-new-star-fund-manager-evershed-can-sue-over-bullying-court-says.html

          
          
             Patrick Evershed , a former  New Star
Asset Management Holdings Inc.  fund manager, can proceed with a
lawsuit over claims he was bullied by company founder  John Duffield , a London court said.  
 Evershed, 69, can pursue whistleblowing and unfair
dismissal claims against the fund, a London appeals court ruled
today. New Star had sought to dismiss the whistleblowing claim,
which allows him to seek unlimited damages. Most U.K. unfair
dismissal claims are capped at about 65,000 pounds ($101,000).  
 Evershed wrote a letter to New Star’s human resources
department complaining of Duffield’s conduct in 2008. Evershed
was suspended by the fund’s chief executive officer, Howard Covington , shortly after, he said, according to the judgment.  
 Duffield “has been most vile to most of the fund managers
for several years and bullying us,” Evershed said in the
letter. “In particular he bullied me into reopening my fund.
This destroyed the performance of the fund and my reputation.”  
 Evershed said he joined New Star under the agreement that
his fund,  New Star Select Opportunities Fund , wouldn’t exceed
investments of 50 million pounds, a limit he said was critical
to its success, according to the judgment.  
 ‘Humiliating Conduct’  
 The fund performed well and Duffield forced him to allow
the investments to triple, leading to an underperformance,
Evershed said. Another executive, New Star’s then joint chief
investment officer, subjected him to “humiliating conduct,”
Evershed said.  
 The New Star fund  declined  47.9 percent in 2008 and was
down 13.68 percent in 2007, according to  data compiled  by
Bloomberg. It had returns of 46.3 percent in 2003 and 18.7
percent in 2004.  
 New Star was bought by  Henderson Group Plc  last year for
about 107 million pounds in cash and stock after it buckled
during the credit crunch, hobbled by a loan it took out to fund
a shareholder payout.  
 New Star has denied the allegations and said that Evershed
resigned, according to the judgment.  
 “This is a legacy issue,” a spokeswoman for Henderson
said. “Henderson was aware of it when they bought New Star. It
is now up to the employment tribunal to decide.”  
 Evershed now works in the fund management department at
 Hargreave Hale  Ltd. stockbrokers in London, where he advises
private clients. He said that Henderson’s “case is hopeless.”  
 “All my former colleagues from New Star are lined up
behind me,” Evershed said in a telephone interview. “They are
totally sympathetic and agree with me.”  
 Rathbone Special Situations Fund  
 Evershed’s U.K. stock fund was the third-best performer
among the 308 funds tracked by Standard & Poor’s U.K. All-
Companies category when he left his previous job at Rathbone
Brothers Plc in 2002. His  Rathbone Special Situations Fund 
gained 8 percent in 2001, compared with the FTSE All Share
Index’s 19 percent decline.  
 Evershed joined New Star in 2002 after he was recruited by
Duffield. He sued the fund in October 2008.  
 Duffield “has created a most unpleasant atmosphere
throughout the firm,” Evershed said in his letter to New Star’s
human resources department. “He recruited stars and then
destroyed them by the way he treated us.”  
 The  case  is New Star v. Evershed, No. A2/2009/1841, Court
of Appeal (Civil Division), on appeal from the Employment Appeal
Tribunal (London).  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        