-- Fortis's Singh Plans IPO of India Pathology Unit, to Sell Health Insurance
-- Lena Lee
-- 2010-07-29T10:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/fortis-healthcare-to-sell-shares-in-pathology-business-in-2011-singh-says.html

          
          
             Fortis Healthcare Ltd.  plans to list
its pathology unit in India next year and is seeking other
acquisitions in Asia after walking away from a bidding war for
the region’s largest hospital operator.  
 The company also plans to start a health insurance business
in India and is in talks with the country’s regulators,
billionaire Chairman  Malvinder Singh  said in an interview in
Singapore today. He declined to say when the business may begin.  
 Fortis will forge ahead with plans to use Singapore as a
base to become a “pan-Asia health-care leader” and has a team
scouting for opportunities in the region, Singh said. New Delhi-
based Fortis agreed to sell its stake in  Parkway Holdings Ltd. 
this week after Malaysia’s  Khazanah Nasional Bhd.  trumped an
offer by the Indian company to take over the Singapore-based
hospital operator.  
 “In Asia we see huge opportunities for health care,” said
Singh, 37. “We see a substantial demand-supply gap. Asia is in
a strong position from a GDP-growth viewpoint and the need for
health care.”  
 Singh, based in Singapore, said the Indian company is
looking at investing in the city-state. He declined to give
details on possible targets and how much might be spent. Fortis
may also have its shares traded in Singapore to tap capital
markets in the city, Singh said, without giving a timeframe.  
 Fortis  gained less than 0.1 percent to 157.10 rupees at the
3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai trading, while India’s benchmark
 Sensitive Index  rose 0.2 percent.  
 ‘Vehicle and Platform’  
 “Parkway was a vehicle and platform that we wanted to
build upon and leverage in order to achieve our vision,” Singh
said. “It’s not Parkway today, it will be something else.”  
 Fortis is expanding in pathology services through its Super
Religare Laboratories Ltd. business. Super Religare said July 14
it agreed to buy  Piramal Healthcare Ltd. ’s diagnostics unit for
6 billion rupees ($129 million). Singh said the combined entity
is the biggest pathology company in Asia outside Japan.  
 Singh plans to list the pathology company on the Bombay
Stock Exchange. The executive, who has an MBA from Duke
University’s  Fuqua School of Business , declined to specify how
much the company will seek in the initial public offering.  
 The chairman said Fortis, which operates 48 hospitals in
India, will build 10 more in the country in the next two years,
adding about 2,500 beds.  
 Besides investments in India, Fortis has a hospital in
Mauritius and one in Afghanistan, “but that will change soon,”
Singh said. “Our growth in this region will be a mix of
organic, inorganic and managing facilities,” he said.  
 Billionaire Brothers  
 Shivinder Singh , 35, Malvinder’s brother, is managing
director of Fortis. The two have a net worth of $3.2 billion,
ranking them at  297 in the list of the world’s richest  people
and among the 20 wealthiest in India, according to Forbes
magazine.  
 Singh and his family gained about $2 billion from selling
their 35 percent stake in Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. to Tokyo-
based Daiichi Sankyo Co. in 2008. The Singhs also own the
Religare group whose operations include wealth management,
investment banking and life insurance.  
 The health insurance business will be done through a
venture with  Religare , providing medical coverage nationally,
Singh said. A chief executive officer has been appointed for the
new business, he said, declining to say when it would start.  
 Fortis  has “substantial” funds for investments, including
about S$1.2 billion ($880 million) from the sale of the 25
percent Parkway stake, the chairman said.  
 “If Fortis would require additional funding, there is a
clear commitment from the family side to do it in Fortis or
along with Fortis,” Singh said. “Fortunately for us, raising
funding has never been an issue.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Gale  in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
 Lena Lee  in Singapore at 
 llee42@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        