-- Fossil Fuel Subsidies Are Twelve Times Renewables Support
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-29T16:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/fossil-fuel-subsidies-are-12-times-support-for-renewables-study-shows.html

          
          
             Global subsidies for fossil fuels
dwarf support given to renewable energy sources such as wind and
solar power and biofuels, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said.  
 Governments last year gave $43 billion to $46 billion of
support to renewable energy through tax credits, guaranteed
electricity prices known as feed-in tariffs and alternative
energy credits, the London-based research group said today in a
statement. That compares with the $557 billion that the  International Energy Agency  last month said was spent to
subsidize fossil fuels in 2008.  
 “One of the reasons the clean energy sector is starved of
funding is because mainstream investors worry that renewable
energy only works with direct government support,” said Michael Liebreich, chief executive of New Energy Finance. “This
analysis shows that the global direct subsidy for fossil fuels
is around ten times the subsidy for renewables.”  
 Countries from the U.S. and Germany to Brazil and China are
trying to boost power derived from crops, the wind and the sun
in order to lower emissions of  greenhouse gases  while increasing
the security of energy supplies. The Group of 20 nations a month
ago  renewed a commitment  to phase out fossil fuel subsidies
“over the medium term.” No target date was set.  
 The single most expensive clean energy subsidy last year
was  Germany ’s feed-in tariff, which cost ratepayers $9.6
billion, New Energy Finance said. Across Europe, such tariffs
amounted to $19.5 billion.  
 The U.S. in 2009 provided the most clean energy subsidies,
at $18.2 billion, according to New Energy Finance. China
provided about $2 billion  of support, a “deceptive” figure
because the country’s state-owned banks also provide “much
crucial support” through low-interest loans, the group said.  
 So far this year, the state-controlled China  Development
Bank  has extended $24 billion in loans to Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co.,  Trina Solar Ltd ., Suntech Power Holdings Co.,
Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. and Solarfun Power
Holdings Co.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        