-- France Telecom Rises Most in 2 1/2 Months on Dividend Pledge
-- Matthew Campbell
-- 2010-07-29T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/france-telecom-says-earnings-drop-2-5-fixed-annual-dividend-through-2012.html

          
          
             France Telecom SA  rose the most in
more than 2 1/2 months in Paris trading after saying it will
maintain its per-share annual dividend of 1.40 euros ($1.80)
through 2012.  
 The biggest French phone operator gained 5.5 percent, the
most since May 10, to close at 16 euros as of 5:30 p.m. France
Telecom’s dividend pledge allayed concern the company would
shrink its payout.  
 “There were fears that France Telecom might replace part
of the cash dividends with a share buyback,”  Saeed Baradar ,
Societe Generale SA’s telecommunications sales specialist, wrote
in a note to clients. The three-year confirmation “will have a
positive impact.”  
 The commitment came as France Telecom today said second-
quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 2.5 percent to 3.98 billion euros. Revenue
slid 1.7 percent to 11.2 billion euros.  
 “We remain, like all big consumer businesses, reasonably
cautious” about market conditions, Chief Financial Officer
 Gervais Pellissier  said on a conference call with reporters.
“In general, growth is a bit less strong than we anticipated in
macroeconomic terms.”  
 France Telecom is looking to overhaul its domestic business
and find new clients abroad under new Chief Executive Officer
 Stephane Richard . This month, Richard unveiled a plan to
increase the company’s customers to 300 million by 2015, from
almost 200 million today.  
 The CFE-CGC/UNSA labor union federation said in an e-mailed
statement that it opposed the dividend pledge, which it argued
comes “to the detriment of investment and debt reduction.”  
 Outlook  
 France Telecom said it sees an impact of about 1 billion
euros from regulatory measures in 2010. Excluding that, it
expects full-year revenue to be stable. Ebitda margin erosion
for the year will be a maximum of one percentage point, it said.  
 The company said it will maintain capital expenditure at 12
percent of revenue in 2010. It confirmed its target for annual
cash flow of about 8 billion euros for 2010 and 2011.  
 Africa and the Middle East led the company’s revenue growth
with an 8 percent increase in the first half. It is one of the
main “motors of growth” for France Telecom, the CFO said.
Sales in Spain rose 2.5 percent, while those in France climbed
0.3 percent, the company said.  
 Expansion  
 France Telecom is looking for expansion in Africa and the
Middle East to complement existing operations in countries
including Jordan, Kenya, and Cameroon. The company is willing to
spend as much as 7 billion euros on deals in the region, Richard
said in April.  
 France Telecom is not planning any “transformational”
acquisitions, and is in talks with Canal Plus, the pay-TV
operator owned by Vivendi SA, that could lead to a partnership
for its Orange Cinema TV channel, Richard said today. A planned
program of stock compensation for employees could cost between
200 million euros and 300 million euros, he said.  
 Richard has made employee welfare a priority after a series
of suicides by workers hastened the departure of his predecessor
as CEO,  Didier Lombard , who is now chairman. A “new social
contract” with employees will cost about 900 million euros
between now and 2012, the company said July 5.  
 Since taking over in March, Richard has signaled a break
with Lombard’s interest in developing exclusive content for
France Telecom’s communications platforms. The company will
instead look for partnerships with existing content providers
that could include minority investments, Richard has said.  
 The CEO, formerly a member of finance minister  Christine Lagarde ’s staff, is also targeting an increase in France
Telecom’s client base to 300 million customers from 182 million
at the end of June.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Stephane Richard, chief executive officer of France Telecom SA, attends a press conference in Paris. Photographer : Fabrice Dimier/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
