-- Franc Gains a Second Day Versus Euro on Speculation Economy Is Improving
-- Bo Nielsen
-- 2010-07-29T14:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/franc-gains-a-second-day-versus-euro-on-speculation-economy-is-improving.html

          
          
             The Swiss franc rose for the second
day against the euro before a report tomorrow that will probably
show leading economic indicators improved in July, stoking
speculation the central bank may increase interest rates.  
 The franc gained the most in almost a month versus the
 dollar  before the KOF research institute publishes data that
economists in a Bloomberg survey said will show leading economic
 indicators  rose to 2.3 in July, the highest since August 2006.
The franc also gained on speculation the central bank was
selling some of its $208 billion in reserves, which almost
tripled during the past year as the national bank attempted to
weaken the currency.  
 “There is market talk that the Swiss National Bank could
hike,” said  David Deddouche , a currency strategist at Societe
Generale SA in Paris. “To me it is more the fact that the
euro’s rally had been strong and a consolidation was overdue.”  
 The franc strengthened 0.9 percent to 1.3603 per euro at
4:55 p.m. in Zurich. The currency is down 3.2 percent this month
against the euro. It surged 1.7 percent to 1.0384 versus the
dollar, the biggest since July 1 based on closing prices.  
 “Our traders are telling me that the Swiss National Bank
has been selling the euro versus the dollar for about one
week,” said  Ursina Kubli , a foreign-currency analyst at Bank
Sarasin in Zurich. “The SNB wants to diversify its foreign-
currency portfolio in order to reduce currency and credit
risk.”  
 Kubli declined to say what amounts were sold.  
 Nicolas Haymoz , a spokesman for the central bank in Zurich,
declined to comment on the prospect of a rate increase and on
whether the bank is selling euro holdings. The central bank held
the three-month Libor target rate at 0.25 percent at its last
meeting in June.  
 “The franc’s price action in the last couple of days has
made the market suspicious that there’s a seller of euro-franc
out there and that it’s the SNB,” said  Steve Barrow , a currency
strategist with Standard Bank Plc in London. “Of the many
rumors floating around, maybe the one of SNB activity fits the
market movements the closets.”  
 Standard Bank advised buying the franc against the dollar,
predicting a gain to 1.0150 per dollar.  
 -- With assistance from  Paul Dobson  in London and  Klaus Wille  in
Zurich. Editors:  Paul Cox ,  Dave Liedtka   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bo Nielsen  in Copenhagen at 
 bnielsen4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        