-- Freshman Lawmaker Who Ran Tully's Coffee in Japan Urges Corporate Tax Cut
-- Takashi Hirokawa
-- 2010-07-29T03:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/freshman-lawmaker-who-ran-tully-s-coffee-in-japan-urges-corporate-tax-cut.html

          
          
             Former  Tully’s Coffee Japan Co. 
President  Kota Matsuda , who was elected to parliament this month,
said the country must cut corporate taxes to attract investment
or risk losing out to Asian rivals.  
 “The Japanese government is not too friendly to companies,
enterprises and entrepreneurs,” said Matsuda, one of 10 members
of the fledgling  Your Party  to win seats in the  upper house  of
parliament. “The corporate tax is very high in Japan; it’s over
40 percent. Many of my friends who own and manage public
companies are considering moving out of Japan soon. That’s a
very big risk.”  
 The 41-year-old lawmaker said in an interview last week
that he will bring unique business skills to parliament as Japan
struggles to sustain economic growth and reverse more than a
decade of  falling prices . He brought Seattle-based Tully’s
Coffee to Japan in 1997, building it up to become the No. 2
specialty outlet after  Starbucks Coffee Japan Ltd.   
 Matsuda said the business tax rate should first be cut to
25 percent and eventually 20 percent.  
 Yasunori Sone , a political science professor at Keio
University in Tokyo, said Matsuda’s experience as a chief
executive officer will be useful in policy decisions while his
success in business doesn’t guarantee political achievements.  
 Overall Pictures  
 “CEOs tend to have the ability to see overall pictures and
figure out what to cut and what to focus on,” said Sone in a
phone interview today. “But he’s in a small opposition party,
and doing politics is more difficult than running a coffee
business.”  
 Your Party, formed less than a year ago, has said it is
willing to work with Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s ruling
Democratic Party of Japan on some policies, while ruling out a
coalition. The DPJ failed to obtain an upper-house majority in
the July 11 election, meaning it may need opposition support to
pass legislation.  
 Your Party plans on using its “leverage” to push the
government and the Bank of Japan to set an inflation target of 2
percent, party head  Yoshimi Watanabe  said in a July 14 interview.
The party opposes Kan’s efforts to raise the national sales tax
from 5 percent.  
 Senegal, Boston  
 Matsuda, who grew up in Senegal and the U.S. before
attending university in Japan, slept on the floor of the first
Tully’s in Tokyo’s Ginza district for six months. When he took
the company public in 2001, the stock doubled from the initial
offer price to 320,000 yen.  Ito En Ltd.  in 2006 spent 4.8
billion yen ($54.7 million) to buy a controlling stake.  
 Japan trails China, South Korea and Hong Kong in luring
foreign companies, Matsuda said. He said he was asked to move
Tully’s headquarters six years ago by Singaporean officials who
pledged to further reduce taxes. Japan’s corporate rate of about
40 percent compares with an average of 26 percent within the
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development .  
 “I’m probably the one and only person who has the
experience of taking a company public” in parliament, Matsuda
said. “I’d like to bring the view of how average Japanese are
thinking, and bring that thinking to negotiations, and talks
with other politicians.”  
 Watanabe’s Your Party supports lower company taxes and
trimming the number of bureaucrats in Japan by one-third.  
 Prejudice  
 Matsuda moved with his family to Senegal for his father’s
work when he was five and learned to speak French at the local
kindergarten. He remembers being labeled as Chinese by kids at
the time. He moved to Massachusetts in 1979, playing soccer and
graduating from  Lexington High School  outside Boston. Returning
to Japan, he faced some prejudice for not being Japanese enough
at Tsukuba University, northeast of Tokyo.  
 “My African and American friends used to make fun of me
for eating raw fish,” Matsuda said. At college, “my friends
said I was different because I was a returnee.”  
 Approached earlier this year by Your Party lawmaker
 Keiichiro Asao  to run for office, Matsuda initially declined.  
 “My honest reaction was no,” he said. “After I talked
with him a few times, I thought I should be a politician to
first reform Japan. I’m not too proud of Japan’s situation right
now.”  
 With parliament set to begin its new session tomorrow,
Matsuda says his atypical upbringing may prompt fellow
legislators to regard him as slightly odd.  
 “If people look at me that way, maybe I can use that to my
advantage to bring about more drastic change,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        