-- Gates Asks FBI to Help in Probe of Leaked Documents
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-07-29T23:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/gates-asks-fbi-to-probe-afghanistan-leaks-as-breach-of-national-security-.html

          
          
             Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said
he asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation to help the
Pentagon investigate the leak of secret U.S. documents on the
war in Afghanistan.  
 The leaking of the documents published by  WikiLeaks.org  is
“potentially severe and dangerous” for U.S. troops and their
allies in the war, Gates said at a Pentagon news briefing today.  
 “It is important that we have all the resources we need to
investigate and assess this breach of national security,” Gates
said. “We will aggressively investigate and wherever possible
prosecute.”  
 Attorney General  Eric Holder  said yesterday during a visit
to Cairo that the Justice Department, which includes the FBI, is
investigating the source of the leaks. Whether criminal charges
are brought depends on the course of the probe, he said.  
 Admiral  Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, assailed  Julian Assange , founder of the website that
published more than 91,000 secret U.S. military reports from
Afghanistan.  
 “Mr. Assange can say whatever he likes about the greater
good that he thinks he and his source think they are doing,”
said Mullen, who joined Gates at the briefing. “But the truth
is they might already have on their hands the blood of some
young soldier or that of an Afghan family.”  
 ‘Moral Obligation’  
 Gates said the U.S. has a “moral obligation” to provide
security for anyone who may be in danger as a result of the
leak, and that the Pentagon is reviewing its rules for
safeguarding classified information.  
 Gates cited Assange’s statements that he still has
thousands of documents that he hasn’t released.  
 “This is a huge amount of raw data,” Gates said. Most of
it is “several years old,” he said. The “problems
identified” have been “well-known” and were among the reasons
for the president’s decision to change the U.S. war strategy in
Afghanistan, he said.  
 Like Mullen, he was critical of all those involved in
leaking the documents. “There is no accountability, no sense of
responsibility,” he said.  
 ‘Positive Reform’  
 Assange said in an interview from London on July 27 that
his aim in posting documents that governments and businesses try
to keep secret is to “produce positive reform.” WikiLeaks vets
every item it posts through a “harm-minimalization process,”
Assange said in an earlier interview with Britain’s Channel 4
television that aired July 25.  
 A theme in the reports is allegations that Pakistan’s main
spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence, secretly aided the
Taliban and allied Islamic militant rebels whom the U.S. is
trying to defeat in neighboring Afghanistan.  
 Mullen, who just returned from a visit to Pakistan, said
relations have improved between Pakistan’s intelligence leaders
and their U.S. counterparts.  
 The country’s military and its intelligence apparatus are
gradually shifting to view militant groups as more of a threat
rather than focusing solely on  Pakistan’s  traditional rivalry
with India, he said.  
 “There have been elements of the ISI that have got a
relationship with extremist organizations,” Mullen said. “We
consider that unacceptable. In the long run, I think that the
ISI has to strategically shift.”  
 Gates said he has seen a “dramatic change” in Pakistan’s
actions, including putting 140,000 troops behind the fight
against insurgents on its own territory.  
 “If you had asked me would they be aggressively pursuing
the Taliban in South Waziristan a year or two ago, I would have
thought that impossible,” Gates said.  
 Still, Gates said, he isn’t surprised Pakistan might hedge
its bets by forming alliances in case the U.S. leaves the
region, as it did before.  
 “They vividly remember us walking out in 1989 and being
left to deal with their security situation on their own,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates answers reporters' questions during a news conference at the Pentagon. Photographer: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg columnist Ann Woolner talks with Mark Crumpton about WikiLeaks' release of 92,000 leaked documents on the war in Afghanistan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
