-- GE, BP, Highland Capital, Kebble, WG Trading, Freight Cartel in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-29T10:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/ge-bp-highland-capital-kebble-wg-trading-freight-cartel-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Three former bankers with a  General
Electric Co.  unit that sold investment contracts to state and
local governments were indicted for conspiring to profit at
taxpayers’ expense by rigging bids, showing the broadening scope
of a Justice Department investigation of municipal finance.  
 Dominick Carollo, Steven Goldberg and Peter Grimm, all of
whom once worked for finance units of General Electric, were
charged with fraud and conspiracy, the Justice Department said.
They allegedly paid kickbacks to local government brokers, who
were hired to solicit competitive bids for investment deals, to
win the bidding and increase their profits.  
 The charges are a result of an antitrust investigation,
begun more than three years ago, into the $2.8 trillion
municipal bond market. The probe has drawn in more than a dozen
banks and financial services companies, including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. ,  Bank of America Corp.  and  UBS AG , according to court
records and regulatory filings.  
 The case centers on guaranteed investment contracts, known
as GICs, that municipalities purchase with money raised by
selling bonds, allowing them to earn a return until the funds
are needed for schools, roads and other public works.  
 Russell Wilkerson, a spokesman for GE Capital, said the
company is assisting in the investigation.  
 Grimm, 46, didn’t return messages left at his home or most-
recent employer, Lamont Financial Services Corp. John Siffert,
an attorney for Goldberg, 47, declined to comment, and Goldberg
didn’t return a call to his home seeking comment. Carollo, 56,
didn’t return a message left at his home.  
 The case is United States of America v. Carollo, 10-cr-
00654, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York.  
 For more, click here.  
 BP, Vivendi Among Companies That May Save Billions From Ruling  
 A  U.S. Supreme Court  ruling last month may translate into
billions of dollars in litigation savings for foreign-based
companies including  Vivendi SA ,  Infineon Technologies AG ,
 Societe Generale  and  BP Plc , Bloomberg News’ Greg Stohr reports.  
 The June 24 decision, overshadowed by rulings the same day
in the corporate corruption cases of Jeffrey Skilling and Conrad
Black, said U.S. securities laws don’t apply overseas. The
justices unanimously threw out a fraud lawsuit by three
Australian shareholders against Melbourne-based  National
Australia Bank Ltd.   
 Companies are already benefiting. Lawyers suing Societe
Generale and Infineon agreed to scale back their lawsuits. A
federal judge in New York trimmed July 26 a suit against  Credit
Suisse Group AG . And a judge this week heard Vivendi’s bid to
throw out most of a jury verdict in an investor suit that seeks
$9 billion.  
 “It’s hard to imagine a case that will have as much direct
and immediate impact on large existing litigations,” said
George Conway, a lawyer at Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz who
represented National Australia at the high court. “It wipes out
an entire species of class-action litigation.”  
 The ruling, Morrison v. National Australia Bank, said
federal securities laws don’t let non-Americans sue in U.S.
courts over shares of a foreign company that are listed only on
an overseas exchange.  
 For more, click here.  
 FSA Can Prosecute Money Laundering, Top Court Rules  
 The Financial Services Authority, the U.K.’s market
regulator, has the power to prosecute money-laundering offenses,
the Supreme Court ruled.  
 It would be “perverse” to limit the FSA’s power to
prosecute white-collar criminals, the U.K.’s highest court said
in a judgment yesterday.  
 The agency’s roles include “the reduction of financial
crime,” the court said. “One of the ways that the FSA might
reasonably consider that this objective can be met is by
prosecuting those who commit offenses of a financial nature.”  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne plans to abolish
the FSA and give most of its power to the Bank of England. The
FSA’s prosecutorial powers may be combined with those of the
Serious Fraud Office and the Office of Fair Trading to create a
proposed economic crime agency.  
 The case was brought by Neil Rollins, accused by the FSA of
insider dealing and money laundering. Steve Milner, an attorney
at the law firm representing Rollins, declined to comment.
Rollins is scheduled to stand trial in November.  
 Health-Fraud Whistleblower Cases May Surge Because of Overhaul  
 Federal fraud cases begun by private citizens against
drugmakers, insurers and hospitals will probably surge past last
year’s record numbers, driven by incentives in the new health
law, Bloomberg News’ Frank Bass reports.  
 Last year, federal officials began investigations of 280
cases as a result of whistleblower allegations, contributing to
a record $1.4 billion in judgments, according to the U.S.
Justice Department. The overhaul, along with revisions to the
whistleblower laws made in May 2009, adds new layers of risk for
companies, said Christopher A. Myers, a health-care attorney
with Holland & Knight LLP in McLean, Virginia.  
 The health overhaul makes it easier for citizens to be
rewarded for uncovering swindles, cuts the time before medical
providers can be accused of withholding overpayments from
 Medicare  and  Medicaid , and includes pages of complicated new
rules that can be broken.  
 Since 1999, the amount recovered as the result of health-
care cases has more than tripled from $407 million, and 24 of
the 25 largest judgments overall are linked to the industry,
according to figures from  Taxpayers Against Fraud , a Washington
group funded by whistleblowers and plaintiffs’ lawyers.  
 These represent instances where the U.S. joined cases under
the  False Claims Act , the Civil War-era statute that arose from
the sale of sick mules, spoiled food and defective weapons to
the Union Army.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Highland Capital Sues Lyondell, UBS Over Loan Dispute  
 Highland Capital Management LP sued  LyondellBasell
Industries NV  and the securities unit of UBS AG for breaching a
contract involving a $150 million loan to Lyondell.  
 In the suit, filed yesterday in Manhattan state Supreme
Court, Highland claims it agreed to fund $150 million of a $1
billion term loan as part of Lyondell’s bankruptcy
reorganization. Lyondell accepted the offer, according to the
suit. UBS Securities LLC, Lyondell’s New York agent arranging
the term loan facility, interfered to punish Highland over an
unrelated dispute, the suit says.  
 “UBS, to further its own personal unrelated dispute with
Highland, refused to allocate any of the term loan to Highland,
and caused Lyondell to breach its contract with Highland,” the
suit says. “Such raw abuses of power disrupt the commercial
workings of the market and should be stopped and punished.”  
 David Harpole, a spokesman for Lyondell, did not return a
call for comment.  
 Kelly Smith, a spokeswoman for UBS, Switzerland’s biggest
lender, declined comment.  
 The case is Highland Capital v. LyondellBasell,
651112/2010, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Google Sued Over Claims Street View Invades Privacy  
 Google Inc.  was sued over claims its collection of data via
Wi-Fi networks for the company’s Street View program violates
federal wiretapping and California privacy laws.  
 The lawsuit was filed July 26 in San Jose, California, on
behalf of Rick Benitti, who argues that Google intercepted
business and personal information from his home wireless network
when he lived in San Francisco from 2005 to this year.  
 Google said in May it mistakenly gathered information from
open wireless networks while it was capturing images of roadways
and houses for its Street View service, a product that lets
users view photographs of an area online.  
 A Google representative didn’t return a phone call and e-
mail message seeking comment.  
 The case is Benitti v. Google, 10-3297, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose). The Oregon
case is Vicki Van Valin v. Google, 10-00557, U.S. District
Court, District of Oregon (Portland).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Enron’s Skilling Seeks Bail, New Trial, Lawyer Says  
 Former  Enron Corp.  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Skilling
seeks to be released from prison on bail while an appeals court
reconsiders convictions questioned by the U.S. Supreme Court.  
 Skilling, 56, is serving a 24-year sentence after a Houston
jury convicted him for leading what prosecutors said was a
widespread accounting fraud that deceived investors about
Enron’s true financial condition. In June, the high court ruled
in Skilling’s favor, saying he was prosecuted under a law
barring honest services fraud that doesn’t apply to his case.  
 “Jeffrey Skilling should immediately be released on bail
pending this court’s ruling on his case on remand,” Daniel
Petrocelli, Skilling’s lawyer, said in a bail request filed
yesterday with the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans.  
 Skilling also asked that his convictions be reversed and he
be retried by a lower-court jury that isn’t allowed to consider
honest-services fraud in weighing his guilt or innocence.  
 “Because it is impossible to know whether the jury
convicted Skilling on any of the 19 counts without relying on
the honest-services theory, all 19 counts must be reversed, and
Skilling must be retried before a jury that is not permitted to
rest any count of conviction on a legally invalid fraud
theory,” Petrocelli wrote to the appellate court.  
 Tracy Schmaler, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
said after the Supreme Court ruling that the government “will
vigorously defend” the Skilling case when it returns to the New
Orleans appeals court.  
 The case is U.S. v. Skilling, 06-20885, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ex-National Century Executives Must Be Resentenced  
 Two ex-National Century Financial Enterprises Inc.
executives won reversals of money-laundering convictions and
must be resentenced, an appeals court said, while upholding
convictions for fraud.  
 Donald Ayers, former chief operating officer, and Roger
Faulkenberry, former director of securitizations for National
Century, were accused of plotting to defraud investors before
the collapse of the health-care finance company. They were
convicted on all counts in March 2008.  
 Ayers was sentenced to 15 years for money laundering and
five years for each fraud count including wire and securities
fraud and conspiracy. Faulkenberry was sentenced to 10 years for
money laundering and five years for each other count. All the
sentences were to run concurrently. Both men appealed.  
 “We conclude there was ample evidence to vindicate the
jury’s finding of guilt as to the fraud counts,” U.S. Circuit
Judge Ray Kethledge in Cincinnati wrote in a 22-page decision on
Faulkenberry’s appeal. “But money laundering is a different
animal than fraud and we conclude that the government did not
prove money laundering here.”  
 The court yesterday issued a separate decision on Ayers’
appeal, also upholding the fraud convictions, reversing the
money laundering one and returning the case to the trial court
for resentencing.  
 “We’re definitely pleased with the reversal on the money
laundering count,” Brian Dickerson, Ayers’ lawyer, said. “We
are going to wait to see if the government asks for an en banc
review,” -- a hearing by the full appellate court -- before
determining Ayers’ next options, he said.  
 Martin Weinberg, who represents Faulkenberry, said the
decision will put limits on federal prosecutors’ use of money
laundering charges to enhance sentences. His client hasn’t yet
decided whether to appeal the court’s decision upholding the
fraud conviction, he said in a phone interview yesterday.  
 U.S. prosecutors said that company executives falsified
financial reports, lied to auditors and advanced funds to
providers owned by Ayers and National Century Chief Executive
Officer Lance Poulsen. Ten executives were convicted at trial or
pleaded guilty. Poulsen was sentenced last year to 30 years in
prison. An appeal of his conviction and sentence is pending.  
 The cases are U.S. v. Faulkenberry, 08-4233/4404, and U.S.
v. Ayers, 08-4166, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
(Cincinnati).  
 Fund Manager Pressuring Mining Magnate Kebble to Quit Was Shot  
 Stephen Mildenhall, a fund manager who pressured Brett
Kebble to quit as chief executive officer of three mining
companies, said he was shot at his home, corroborating a
confession July 26 that the attack had been ordered by the
mining magnate.  
 Mildenhall, the former chief investment officer of Cape
Town’s Allan Gray Ltd., said he was shot at his home in the city
on Aug. 31, 2005. July 26, former nightclub doorman Nigel
McGurk, told the South Gauteng High Court, that he had hired two
Cape Town residents to attack the money manager, executing
orders that came from contacts of Kebble.  
 “I was shot twice in my left shoulder and once in my right
shoulder,” Mildenhall said, recounting how two men forced their
way into his carport. “I lay on the ground and waited for their
car to drive away.”  
 The testimony was made at the court on the third day of the
murder trial of Glenn Agliotti, a convicted drug dealer, who
says Kebble asked him to organize his killing in an “assisted
suicide.” Kebble was shot in his car in Johannesburg a month
after he quit the companies following the disappearance of
hundreds of millions of dollars of assets.  
 Allan Gray, which today has the equivalent of $38 billion
under management, in 2005 held about 25 percent stakes in the
three companies headed by Kebble --  Randgold & Exploration Ltd. ,
 JCI Ltd.  and Western Areas Ltd. -- and had been working with
 Investec Ltd.  to oust him. Mildenhall said he had hired
investigators to probe the companies.  
 The case is: State versus Agliotti, Norbert Glenn, JPV
2008/264, SS154/2009.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Fund Manager Paul Greenwood Pleads Guilty to Fraud  
 Hedge fund manager Paul Greenwood, the general partner of
WG Trading Co., pleaded guilty to six charges including
conspiracy and securities fraud and is cooperating with the U.S.
against co-defendant Steven Walsh.  
 Greenwood and Walsh, his fellow manager of WG Trading and
WG Investors, were indicted last July on charges that they
conspired to defraud investors of $554 million. The U.S. said
the scheme stretched from 1996 until their arrest in February
2009. A prosecutor said yesterday that Greenwood will testify
against Walsh at trial.  
 Greenwood said yesterday he entered into the conspiracy
with Walsh and that the two claimed they had an “index
arbitrage fund” which promised institutional investors high
returns. Greenwood said he and Walsh took out money for their
own personal use, which a federal prosecutor said cost investors
between $800 million and $900 million.  
 “You treated these investments as your own personal bank
accounts?” U.S. District Judge Miriam Cedarbaum in Manhattan
asked Greenwood yesterday during his plea hearing.  
 “Correct,” said Greenwood, who said he and Walsh often
paid investors back using funds from other investors.  
 “So this was a Ponzi scheme?” Cedarbaum asked.  
 “Sort of,” said Greenwood who told the judge that he took
out “in excess of $75 million,” spending the money on “a
house, a horse farm and antiques.”  
 Walsh has pleaded not guilty to the charges. Cedarbaum has
scheduled a hearing in the case for July 30. No trial date has
been set.  
 “Steven Walsh looks forward to his day in court,” his
lawyer, Glenn Colton, said yesterday in a telephone interview
after Greenwood’s plea.  
 The case is U.S. v. Greenwood, 09-cr-722, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 American Airlines to Pay $5 Million in Cartel Case  
 AMR Corp. ’s American Airlines agreed to give evidence
against other carriers and pay $5 million to a group of freight
shippers to settle a New York class-action lawsuit over its role
in a global price-fixing cartel.  
 Under the deal, American will provide witnesses, documents
and electronic data to help shippers in similar cases in Canada,
Australia, South Korea and other countries, the group’s lawyer,
Michael Hausfeld of  Hausfeld & Co. LLP , said in a statement in
London yesterday. The agreement, filed July 26 in federal court
in Brooklyn, New York, is the first by an airline to help
prosecute the cartel claims outside the U.S., he said.  
 “It is an important step forward for shippers in Europe
and around the world and demonstrates that companies can act
responsibly to resolve competition disputes without resorting to
excessive or protracted litigation,” Hausfeld, who is co-lead
counsel in the case, said in the statement.  
 The industry’s freight services have been probed by the
U.S. and the European Union since 2006, leading to settlements,
fines and plea deals by airlines and executives.  
 American, based in Fort Worth, Texas, didn’t admit fault or
liability and was only added as a defendant in the case in order
to seek court approval of the proposed deal, spokesman Tim
Wagner said yesterday in an e-mail.  
 The case is In re Air Cargo Shipping Services Antitrust
Litigation, 1:06-md-01775, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        