-- Geithner to Speak Next Week on Obama's Fiscal Plans, Aide Says
-- Rebecca Christie
-- 2010-07-29T21:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/geithner-to-speak-on-fiscal-policy-as-obama-seeks-expiration-of-tax-breaks.html

          
          
             U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  next week plans to step up the Obama administration’s
efforts to persuade lawmakers that tax cuts for wealthy
Americans should be allowed to expire at year end, an
administration official said today.  
 Geithner is preparing to make his fiscal policy case before
the Senate finishes its session, the administration official
said. Geithner’s message and the event, still in the planning
stages, are intended to signal that the administration is
serious about cutting the  budget deficit  in a way that won’t
harm the economic recovery, the official said.  
 The administration wants to let tax breaks expire for
Americans who earn more than $250,000 per year, while extending
the tax benefits to families who earn less than that. The tax
cuts, enacted in 2001 and 2003 during former President  George W. Bush ’s administration, are expiring in months as an election-
year fight looms over whether to continue them.  
 After Geithner spoke about the administration’s tax plans
in four separate public appearances last week, his event next
week may be aimed at solidifying support among Democrats
preparing to spend much of August among constituents.  
 Some Democrats already are breaking ranks with Obama’s
policy, including Senator  Kent Conrad  of North Dakota, the
Budget Committee chairman.  
 Economic Advice  
 “My reaction would be: don’t cut spending, don’t raise
taxes and that would mean on anyone,” Conrad said in an
interview this week. He said he was following the advice of
economists who predict a weak economy for the next 18 to 24
months.  
 A Commerce Department report tomorrow may show the economy
expanded at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the second quarter,
after a 2.7 percent pace from January through March, according
to the median estimate of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  
 “In the short run, I think we need to emphasize growth
above all else,” said Senator  Evan Bayh , an Indiana Democrat,
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” last
week. “Raising taxes right now would be the wrong thing to
do.”  
 Even as the U.S. budget deficit approaches an estimated
record of $1.47 trillion in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30,
yields on Treasuries this year have reached the lowest level
during an economic expansion since the Eisenhower
administration.  
 No Complacency  
 Such low yields don’t mean the U.S. can be complacent about
reining in the red ink, said  Neel Kashkari , head of new
investment initiatives at Pacific Investment Management Co., in
an interview today on Bloomberg Television.  
 “We shouldn’t be fooled by that,” said Kashkari, former
head of the Treasury’s financial stability office. “The
absolute size of our deficits matter and our relative position
matters. Today we’re the strongest weakling.”  
 Geithner said on July 25 that the expiring tax cuts would
only affect 2 percent to 3 percent of Americans, and therefore
would help shrink the deficit without hurting the recovery.  
 “We need to make sure we can show the world that we’re
willing, as a country, now to start to make some progress
bringing down our long, our long-term deficits,” Geithner said
in an interview on ABC. “I do not believe it would have a
negative effect on growth.”  
 The Obama administration official said Geithner’s growth-
and-fiscal-policy push will be separate from his already
announced event in New York on Aug. 2, when he’ll discuss the
financial regulatory overhaul that Obama signed this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
