-- Germany's Dekabank Forecasts Global Growth Will Slow in Coming 18 Months
-- Simon Berberich
-- 2010-07-29T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/germany-s-dekabank-forecasts-global-growth-will-slow-in-coming-18-months.html

          
          
             Dekabank Deutsche Girozentrale, the
fund manager for Germany’s state-owned savings banks, projects
global economic growth will slow in the next year and a half as
governments’ stimulus programs expire and companies complete the
restocking of inventories.  
 The speed of the economic recovery in the first half of
2010 can’t be maintained, Frankfurt-based Dekabank said in a
study published today. The current momentum is driven by
expansive monetary policy and companies filling up inventories.
Both of those factors will diminish gradually, the bank said in
the study.  
 “One mustn’t be blinded by the latest good numbers,”
 Ulrich Kater , chief economist at Dekabank, said in an e-mail.
“There are difficult economic challenges ahead, such as
supervising the stability of the financial system and a cautious
consolidation of public budgets.”  
 Dekabank projects global annualized growth will slow to 3.5
percent in the current quarter from 4.5 percent in the previous
three months. Fourth-quarter expansion is projected at 4 percent
followed by 4.3 percent growth in each of the two subsequent
quarters and 4.1 percent in third and fourth quarters of 2011.  
 Dekabank sees only a slight possibility for a double-dip
recession in the world economy. The European sovereign-debt
crisis, the impact of which can be felt at a global level, came
at a “favorable point” in the economic cycle. Nonetheless, the
debt crisis and restrictive credit conditions are risks to
global growth, according to the bank’s study.  
 “With nervous capital markets in the background, one can
never be safe,” Kater said.  
 Dekabank forecasts global expansion for 2010 of 4.5 percent
and 4 percent for next year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Berberich  in Frankfurt 
 sberberich@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        