-- Dortmund Prosecutors Charge World War II Camp Guard With Murder of Jews
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-07-29T10:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/germany-charges-88-year-old-with-killing-jews-at-world-war-ii-death-camp.html

          
          
              An alleged Nazi camp guard
questioned during the investigation of  John Demjanjuk  was
charged by German prosecutors with the murder of Jews during
World War II.  
 Samuel Kunz, 88, was charged by prosecutors in Dortmund,
Germany, with shooting 10 Jews and aiding in the gassing of Jews
at the Belzec camp in German-occupied Poland, the Bonn Regional
Court said in an e-mailed statement today. Kunz served as a camp
guard in Belzec from January 1942 to July 1943, prosecutors
said.  
 “According to the indictment, more than 430,000 Jews were
killed in the gas chambers there until July 1943,” the court
said. “The accused is said to have participated as a guard.”  
 A lawyer for Demjanjuk, who is on trial on charges that he
assisted in the murder of 27,900 Jews at the Sobibor
extermination camp, cited Kunz’s case as an example of German
authorities arbitrarily targeting Demjanjuk while other alleged
guards were allowed to live freely in Germany for decades.  
 Uwe Krechel, Kunz’s attorney, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment. Demjanjuk has denied the allegations
against him.  
 Both Demjanjuk and Kunz served in the Russian Army, were
captured by the Germans and then trained as guards at the
Trawniki camp, according to prosecutors. Kunz, an ethnic German,
moved to Germany after the war and gained citizenship.  
 The probe against Kunz was opened in June 2009 after a
journalist gave Germany’s central Nazi crime investigation unit
a tip,  Kurt Schrimm , head of that unit, said. Kunz was
questioned as a witness in the Demjanjuk investigation, Schrimm
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        