-- Unemployment Falls in Germany for 13th Month as Companies Get Export Boost
-- Christian Vits
-- 2010-07-29T09:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/german-unemployment-declined-in-july-for-thirteenth-month-as-exports-boom.html

          
          
             German  unemployment  fell for a 13th
month in July as companies from  Infineon Technologies AG  to
Deutsche Lufthansa AG benefit from the strengthening global
economy.  
 The  number  of people out of work declined a seasonally
adjusted 20,000 to 3.21 million, the Federal Labor Agency in
Nuremberg said today. That’s the  lowest since  November 2008.
Unemployment was forecast to fall 20,000, according to the
median of 34 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The adjusted
 jobless rate  declined to 7.6 percent.  
 The drop in joblessness comes on the same day that  German
companies  from Siemens AG to BASF SE reported earnings that
outstripped estimates, adding to data for July showing services
and manufacturing industries accelerated as  business confidence 
surged to a three-year high. That all points to Germany’s
export-driven economy gathering pace as improving global demand
outweighs spending cuts by European states trying to lower debt.  
 “As the world economy recovers and foreign demand grows,
Germany’s  export  industry is among the winners,” said Stefan
Hardege, an economist at the Berlin-based DIHK chamber of
industry and commerce, which represents 3.6 million companies.
“We’ve seen a favorable development in the labor market and we
assume this will continue.”  
 The euro climbed 0.6 percent to $1.3073 as of 10:40 a.m. in
Berlin. German 10-year bund yields were little changed at 2.74
percent.  
 Siemens, BASF  
 Munich-based  Siemens , Europe’s largest engineering company,
raised its full-year profit outlook today after quarterly income
rose 40 percent, beating analysts’ estimates.  BASF , the world’s
biggest chemical company, cited a rebound in demand for second-
quarter profit that topped estimates. Cologne-based Lufthansa,
the second-biggest airline in Europe, tripled its quarterly
operating profit on a recovery in demand for travel and freight
transport.  
 Infineon Technologies AG , based in Neubiberg, raised its
full-year forecast yesterday, with Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  saying that Europe’s second-largest chipmaker is
“executing extremely well in the current up-cycle.”  
 The Ifo business-confidence index unexpectedly jumped to
106.2 this month from 101.8 in June, the biggest monthly
increase since records for a reunified Germany began in 1990.
Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle  sees the economy growing 2
percent this year, outstripping the government’s 1.4 percent
projection, Focus magazine reported on July 24.  
 ‘Virtuous Circle’  
 “Consumers are optimistic because of falling unemployment
and are spending more, creating a virtuous circle,” said  Peter Leonhardt , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “We should
finally get some good news again from consumer spending in the
second quarter.” Leonhardt said he was “gobsmacked” by the
strength of the labor market.  
 GfK AG’s monthly  index  of household confidence will rise to
a nine-month high in August, the Nuremberg-based market-research
company said July 27.  
 “The pace of expansion noticeably improved in spring,”
the Bundesbank said in its monthly report on July 19. The
“remarkable” improvement in the labor market bodes well for
“a gradual stabilization of private consumption.”  
 Worker Shortages  
 Shortages of skilled workers are starting to reappear.
Labor demand rose in July, led by temporary-work companies,
retailers, construction and the food and drinks industry, the
labor agency said in a report yesterday.  Daimler AG , the world’s
second-largest maker of luxury cars, has hired 1,800 temporary
workers and added Saturday shifts at some plants.  
 Germany’s VDI association of engineers said the net
 shortage  of engineers in areas including machinery and vehicles,
electrical installations and construction rose for a fifth month
in June to 35,400.  
 It’s a “problem for some sectors at the moment,” Hardege
said. “It’s a continuation of a development that was there
before the crisis” that’s set to “intensify.”  
 According to Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development data, Germany’s jobless rate was 7 percent in May.
The equivalent rate in France was 9.9 percent and the U.S. rate
was 9.7 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rainer Buergin  in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Siemens AG chief executive officer Peter Loescher. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
