-- Gillard, Abbott Tied in Poll as Leaks Overshadow Australia Election Battle
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-07-29T09:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/gillard-abbott-tied-in-poll-as-leaks-overshadow-australia-election-battle.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and conservative opposition leader  Tony Abbott  drew
level in voter support as reports of leaks by members of
Gillard’s government threaten to destabilize her election
campaign.  
 Gillard’s rating fell 12 percentage points to 46 percent in
the lead up to the Aug. 21 ballot, while Abbott rose 11 points
to 46 percent compared with a survey a week earlier, a Morgan
poll published today showed. The telephone  survey  of 680 people
on July 27 and 28 has a margin of error of 3 percentage points.
Still, the poll found Labor leads the opposition with 53 percent
support to 47 percent.  
 Gillard called a general election after ousting Prime
Minister  Kevin Rudd  on June 24 when Labor Party factions and key
labor unions switched allegiance as Rudd’s popularity with
voters slumped in opinion polls to election-losing levels.  
 “The leaks are not helping Labor,”  Gary Morgan , executive
chairman of Roy Morgan Research, said by phone today. “The
continued disunity in the Labor Party created by Kevin Rudd
supporters threatens to prolong the focus on personal issues.”  
 Gillard’s focus in the second week of her campaign moved
from touting Labor’s ability to manage the A$1.2 trillion ($1.07
trillion) economy, which grew while major economies slumped, to
defending herself against leaks that Australian media reported
came from within the Cabinet.  
 A report on Nine Network television two days ago, citing
unidentified government officials, said Gillard spoke in Cabinet
against a proposed rise in pension payments to the aged and a
paid parental leave plan.  
 Affordable Plans  
 Gillard confirmed yesterday she questioned the
affordability of a rise in the aged pension and the introduction
of Labor’s 18-week paid parental leave policy, which she said
will cost a total of A$50 billion over the next decade.  
 “I wanted to satisfy myself that they were affordable,”
Gillard told reporters in Adelaide.  
 That followed a claim on July 15 from a Channel Nine
reporter during Gillard’s National Press Club address that she
had reneged on a leadership deal with Rudd. The reporter cited
unidentified officials for the story and Gillard wouldn’t
comment on it at the time.  
 Another leaked report emerged on June 24 on the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. that Rudd sent his 31-year-old chief of staff
to meetings of Cabinet’s National Security Committee, which
makes decisions on Australia’s defense. Rudd has denied being
the source of the leaks and Patrick Gorman, his spokesman, said
today by e-mail that the former leader won’t make any further
comment.  
 “We’ve got a totally dysfunctional government,” Abbott
told ABC radio today. There’s “chaos inside the government with
leak and counter-leak by the supporters of Julia Gillard and the
supporters of Kevin Rudd.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;
 Gemma Daley  at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Australia's Prime Minister Julia Gillard visits the MS Australia Nerve Centre in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gillard speaking in Melbourne  
                       
                         
                           Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks at the MS Australia Nerve Centre in Melbourne. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks at the MS Australia Nerve Centre in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Australia's opposition Liberal Party leader Tony Abbott at the Essendon Football Club in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Australia's opposition Liberal Party leader Tony Abbott at the Essendon Football Club in Melbourne. Photographer: Carla Gottgens/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
