-- Gillard Dumps `Big Australia' Policy as Mines Seek Labor
-- Michael Heath
-- 2010-07-30T00:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/gillard-s-big-australia-denial-raises-pressure-for-higher-interest-rates.html

          
          
             Australia is abandoning a six-decade
consensus favoring immigration, risking slower growth and faster
 inflation  in a nation short of workers to help meet China’s
demand for its commodities.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  is pushing reduced population
gains to lure voters in suburban districts she needs to win Aug.
21 elections, an appeal to neighborhoods faced with pressure on
road systems and housing. Since taking office last month, she’s
dropped her predecessor’s endorsement of a “ Big Australia ”
policy that envisioned a surge of more than 50 percent in
citizens in the coming four decades.  
 The consequence of diminished immigration may be a hit of
almost half a percentage point to the  economic growth rate ,
according to the Treasury department. With job gains at the
strongest since 2006, an end to the current migration program
also may foreshadow a spiral of wages that forces the central
bank to raise interest rates to contain inflation.  
 “Once unemployment falls below 5 percent, it’s sort of a
danger zone” for the central bank, said  Rob Henderson , chief
markets economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney, who
has analyzed the economy for more than three decades and served
as an adviser to former Prime Minister  Bob Hawke . “Skilled
migration forms a very important safety valve in the economy.”
He declined to comment on the political aspect.  
 Growth Risk  
 Under the baseline scenario of a Treasury report in
February, the population is forecast to expand 1.2 percent a
year to 35.9 million by 2050. Paring that rate by one third
would cut the average annual economic growth rate to 2.3 percent
from 2.7 percent, according to the Treasury. Net migration is
the “key” variable influencing the outcomes, the  study  said.  
 Most of Australia’s 22 million population is descended from
immigrants. The U.K. began sending waves of its subjects in the
18th century as it set up penal colonies on the continent.  
 The Treasury’s projections take on added importance in the
aftermath of the policy shift by Gillard, 48, who ousted her
fellow Labor politician  Kevin Rudd  last month after polls
indicated he’d lose the election.  
 Australia’s net migration surged to more than 1.1 million
in the past five years, compared with about 575,000 in the 2000-
2004 period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Change in Immigration  
 Gillard’s call comes amid a shift in immigrants’ home
countries. The proportion of immigrants from northwestern,
southern and eastern Europe declined 0.8 percentage point in the
10 years to 2008, and those born in northeast, southern and
Central Asia increased by 1 point during the period, according
to the bureau of statistics. As of June 30, 2008, a quarter of
Australia’s population was born overseas.  
 “Gillard can never say so, but Australia is a country
where bigotry abounds,” former Labor leader  Mark Latham  wrote
in the  Australian Financial Review  this month, accusing her of
trying to win over xenophobic voters in marginal districts.
“Attend any sporting event in Australia and listen to the
racial abuse. Walk through any shopping mall and witness the
vilification of the burka and kaftan. Visit any country town and
listen to the denigration of indigenous citizens.”  
 Gillard, campaigning to win Labor a second straight term in
office in the Aug. 21 vote, in a July 20  speech  warned against
“hurtling down the track towards a big population” and said
the current growth model is “irresponsible.” By contrast, Rudd
said “I believe in a big Australia” in an  October speech .  
 Opposition Leader  
 Opposition Liberal-National coalition leader  Tony Abbott 
pledged July 25 to reduce Australia’s annual rate of net
overseas migration to no more than 170,000 by the end of the
next government’s first term from 298,924 in 2008-2009.  
 Gillard and Abbot drew level in personal support in a poll
published yesterday. The Morgan telephone survey of 680 people
July 27-28 also showed the Labor party still leading the
opposition with 53 percent support to 47 percent.  
 Abbott’s party had sought to restrict the illegal entry of
asylum seekers by boat in a campaign that began in 2001, when
then-Prime Minister  John Howard  refused to allow mainly Afghans
to land in the country. The move was credited with helping him
win the election that year. At the same time, the coalition
government allowed migrant numbers to accelerate to meet the
demands of the expansion in mining.  
 Diminished labor-force gains would be bad news for Western
Australia, the state that’s the center of the mining boom driven
by demand from China. The region will need an extra 500,000
workers over the next 10 years as  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s
biggest mining company, and  Xstrata Plc , the top thermal coal
exporter, develop projects, said John Nicolaou, chief economist
at the state’s chamber of commerce and industry in Perth.  
 Worker Shortage  
 Nicolaou estimated the state will be short 200,000 workers
by the end of 2020, even on the basis of current population
growth.  
 “If we don’t address it, it will lead to lower economic
activity and higher prices due to capacity constraints,”
Nicolaou said. That leads to a less productive workforce,
project delays and higher interest rates, he said.  
 Australia’s  unemployment rate  dropped to 5.1 percent in
June, compared with an average rate of 5.44 percent in the past
decade. In Western Australia, the level was 4 percent.  
 “We need more people to grow,” said Steve Batchelor of
 S&N Civil Constructions  in Perth, a contractor to clients
including Melbourne-based BHP, London-based Rio Tinto Group and
Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata.  
 Higher Rates  
 Australia’s central bank has increased the  benchmark rate 
six times to 4.5 percent since early October from a half-century
low of 3 percent, citing an economic expansion it forecasts will
almost double to 4 percent in the next two years fueled by
China’s demand for iron ore and energy.  
 “Inflationary risks are on the upside with the labor
market reaching full capacity over the next year” and export
gains stretching the economy’s potential, the Treasury said this
week.  
 Twenty-six percent of  Australia’s population  was born
overseas as of June 2008, according to the Bureau of Statistics,
about double the U.S. figure. The largest number was from the
U.K., at 1.2 million, followed by New Zealand with 494,600, then
China’s 313,600 and India’s 239,300.  
 Gillard sought to reinforce her move away from Rudd’s
growth policy by adding “sustainable” to the title of her
population minister,  Tony Burke . Both he and the prime minister
have declined to specifically say whether the government plans
to cut back the migrant intake.  
 Congestion Rankles  
 In contrast with Western Australia’s open spaces,
congestion in Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, has
gotten to a point where the city’s business chamber is calling
on the state government to delay starting hours for high schools
to ease pressure on the transport network.  
 “Labor has 18 ultra-marginal seats in New South Wales and
Queensland, where the issue of population is very sensitive,”
said  Nick Economou , a political scientist at Monash University
in Melbourne. “This is particularly important to voters in
western suburbs of Sydney where there are infrastructure and
housing problems.”  
 Australia, the world’s sixth-largest country by size with a
land mass of 7.7 million square kilometers (3 million square
miles), had two-thirds of its people living in less than 0.5
percent of that area in June 2009, according to statistics
bureau data, a pattern that reflects the lack of water in much
of the continent.  
 Western Australia, which accounts for about a third of the
nation’s landmass, is a relatively underdeveloped state, said
Dale Alcock, managing director of  ABN Group , a homebuilder.  
 “In the northwest, there’s a massive amount of
infrastructure and housing required,” he said, referring to the
area that captures many of the major resources projects. “All
that points to needing more skilled workers.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Julia Gillard, Australia's prime minister, speaks during a news conference at Government House in Canberra. Photographer: Joseph Lafferty/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
