-- Goldman-Backed India Bourse May Seek Anchor Investor
-- Madelene Pearson
-- 2010-07-29T06:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/goldman-backed-india-commodity-exchange-may-seek-anchor-investor-ceo-says.html

          
          
             India’s  National Commodity &
Derivatives Exchange Ltd. , partly owned by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., is considering taking an anchor investor, Chief Executive
Officer  R. Ramaseshan  said.  
 “We are keeping that option open and we are actively
looking at what could be the contribution of an anchor
investor,” he said in an interview in Mumbai yesterday.
“There’s nothing conclusive at this point in time.”  
 Buying a stake in a commodity bourse in India, the top user
of gold and the second-biggest grower of wheat and rice, will
let an investor tap a market where turnover is forecast by the
industry  regulator  to rise 20 percent in the year to March 31
from 77.65 trillion rupees ($1.7 trillion) a year earlier. NYSE
Euronext, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Fidelity
International are among holders in the  Multi Commodity Exchange
of India Ltd. , the nation’s largest such exchange.  
 Jaypee Capital Services Ltd., a financial services company
in New Delhi, is considering acquiring a stake, Ramaseshan said,
adding that the exchange isn’t necessarily talking with Jaypee
about it being an anchor investor.  
 “That issue is wide open at this point of time,” he said.  
 Jaypee Managing Director  Gaurav Arora  confirmed talks with
the exchange by phone from Delhi. He declined to provide details.  
 Turnover on commodity bourses in India jumped 57 percent to
24.6 trillion rupees in the quarter ended June 30, the regulator
Forward Markets Commission said on its website July 7.  
 The National Commodity & Derivatives Exchange had a daily
average turnover of 27 billion rupees in the three months ended
June, up from 22 billion rupees a year ago, Ramaseshan said.  
 Stakeholders  
 Goldman Sachs,  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  and  Shree
Renuka Sugars Ltd. , India’s biggest refiner, each hold a 4
percent stake in NCDEX, according to the exchange’s website.  
 Indian rules allows an anchor investor to hold as much as
26 percent in a commodity exchange. Ownership by foreign funds
has been capped at 5 percent for a single investor.  
 The National Stock Exchange of India Ltd., which holds 15
percent in the National Commodity exchange, needs to lower the
stake to 5 percent by the year end, according to amended rules
published this month by the regulator.  
 “The National Stock Exchange as a shareholder will have to
take a call on how they will go about it,” said Ramaseshan. “
NCDEX as an exchange is watched by others, so I am sure there
should be interest,” in the stake, he said.  
 Life Insurance Corp. of India and the National Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development each own 15 percent of NCDEX.
Crisil Ltd., a unit of Standard & Poor’s, and Indian Farmers
Fertiliser Cooperative Ltd., each hold 12 percent, according to
the exchange’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Madelene Pearson  in Mumbai on 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        