-- Li Ka-shing Companies Bid $9.1 Billion for EDF's U.K. Unit
-- John Duce
-- 2010-07-30T09:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/li-ka-shing-buys-edf-s-electricity-networks-unit-in-the-u-k-ft-reports.html

          
          
             A group led by  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung
Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. offered 5.8 billion pounds
($9.1 billion) for Electricite de France SA’s U.K. power
networks, the Hong Kong billionaire’s biggest acquisition.  
 The group includes Cheung Kong unit  Hongkong Electric
Holdings Ltd.  and the Li Ka-shing Foundation, according to a
filing to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. The offer is
subject to approval by the seller and European Union regulators.  
 “We’re confident the deal will go through,” Cheung Kong
Infrastructure Deputy Chairman  Edmond Ip  said at a media
briefing in Hong Kong today, adding that it would be funded by
about 60 percent debt and 40 percent equity. The bid is the
biggest by a company controlled by Li, said Ip.  
 The deal joins investments by Asia’s second-richest man in
gas, water and road assets in Australia, Canada and the U.K. to
counter price curbs in Hong Kong’s power market. About two-
thirds of Cheung Kong Infrastructure’s revenue came from its
businesses  outside Hong Kong  last year. Hongkong Electric has
assets in countries including China, Thailand and New Zealand.  
 “The companies have a history of investing in countries
like the U.K. and Australia because their electricity businesses
are well regulated and offer stable returns,” said  Peter Yao ,
an analyst at Bank of China Group Investment in Hong Kong. “The
market was expecting a price of about 5 billion pounds, but this
will be well received because it will produce strong earnings.”  
 Australia accounted for about 25 percent of Cheung Kong
Infrastructure’s total revenue last year, mainland China 16
percent and the U.K. about 13 percent.  
 Shares Rise  
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure, which runs power plants and
toll roads, rose 0.7 percent to close at HK$29.10. The stock
earlier  climbed  as much as 4.8 percent, the most in 8 1/2 months.
 Hongkong Electric  advanced 0.6 percent to HK$47.05, while the
Hang Seng Index fell 0.3 percent.  
 EDF, Europe’s biggest power generator, reported a 47
percent drop in first-half profit after making a provision on
nuclear development in the U.S. because of financing delays.
Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  decided to sell the grid
to reduce debt after the company borrowed to expand power
generation in the U.S. and U.K.  
 Paris-based EDF got at least two preliminary bids from the
Hong Kong company and a group led by Australia’s Macquarie Group
Ltd., a person familiar with the matter said July 16. Deutsche
Bank AG and Barclays Plc were advising EDF on the sale. Cheung
Kong Infrastructure was advised by RBS Corporate Finance, a unit
of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 Overseas Business  
 The company’s assets overseas include a stake in the U.K.
energy company Northern Gas Networks Ltd. In April, the company
agreed to pay 211.7 million pounds for a stake in the U.K.
electricity producer Seabank Power Ltd. from BG Group Plc.  
 Cheung Kong Infrastructure yesterday reported a 48 percent
drop in first-half net income to HK$2.03 billion after making a
one-off gain last year selling assets. Hongkong Electric’s
profit rose 3.2 percent to HK$2.75 billion in the same period.  
 Li, 82, dubbed “Superman” by Hong Kong’s media because of
his track record for investing, was born in Chaozhou in the
southern Chinese province of Guangdong. The plastics company he
started in 1950 spawned an empire spanning 54 countries, with
investments in everything from oil drilling to port operations.  
 Starting in the late 1950s, Li bought assets including
real estate during crises such as the 1967 riots in Hong Kong
and the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown in Beijing. Forbes
magazine listed Li as the world’s 14th-richest person in March,
compared with 16th a year earlier, after his wealth increased 30
percent to $21 billion.  
 Li’s Empire  
 Li’s Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. has a market value of $28
billion, making it the world’s largest real estate developer
after Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd, also based in Hong Kong,
according to Bloomberg data. The billionaire also controls
Canadian oil producer Husky Energy Inc., which is developing gas
fields in the South China Sea with Cnooc Ltd.  
 EDF’s U.K. network serves about 7.8 million people in
London and southeast England. It includes about 170,000
kilometers (105,633 miles) of underground cables and overhead
power lines, as well as 66,300 substations, according to the
company’s website. EDF valued the regulated part of network at
about 4 billion euros ($5.1 billion) at the end of 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Li Ka-shing also controls Canadian oil producer Husky Energy Inc., which is developing gas
fields in the South China Sea with Cnooc Ltd. Photographer: Jerome Favre/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     EDF, Europe’s biggest power generator, reported a 47 percent drop in first-half profit after making a provision on nuclear development in the U.S. because of financing delays. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
