-- Icahn Loses Bid in Canada to Stop Lions Gate Director From Selling Shares
-- Michael White
-- 2010-07-29T01:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/icahn-loses-bid-in-canada-to-stop-lions-gate-director-from-selling-shares.html

          
          
             Canadian regulators refused to grant
a temporary order sought by  Carl Icahn  in his fight to take over
 Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. , the independent film studio.  
 The British Columbia Securities Commission today declined
to issue an order that would prevent Lions Gate board member
 Mark Rachesky  from selling any of 16.2 million shares he
acquired in a debt-for-equity swap.  
 Icahn, 74, is trying to reverse the swap, which hinders his
hostile bid for the studio by putting more shares in the hands
of opponents. The swap boosted Rachesky’s stake, the second-
largest after Icahn’s, to 28.9 percent. Icahn has 33 percent.
The case should be heard in court, the panel said.  
 “We are pleased with the British Columbia Securities
Commission’s decision to dismiss the Icahn Group’s application
for a cease trade order against Lions Gate,” the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  
 Icahn, who also filed lawsuits in New York State Supreme
Court and in Canada, is offering $6.50 a share for Lions Gate,
distributor of the “Saw” horror films and producer of the
“Mad Men” TV series. His New York office didn’t respond to a
request for comment after normal business hours.  
 Last week, Vancouver-based Lions Gate issued new shares to
Rachesky’s MHR Fund Management LLC, putting 12 percent more of
the stock in friendly hands and diluting Icahn’s holding.
Rachesky, 51, increased his stake by buying $100 million of
convertible notes from Kornitzer Capital Management, then
exchanging debt for stock.  
 Kornitzer today  reported  holding 2.74 million shares of the
independent film studio. That represents an increase from the
1.99 million shares Kornitzer held as of June 30, according to
 data compiled by Bloomberg .  
 Lions Gate, run from Santa Monica, California, fell 21
cents to $6.79 today in New York Stock Exchange  trading . The
shares have gained 17 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        