-- Iceland's Credit Outlook Cut to Negative at Moody's on Foreign Loan Ruling
-- Omar R. Valdimarsson
-- 2010-07-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/iceland-debt-rating-outlook-revised-to-negative-by-moody-s-on-bank-ruling.html

          
          
             Iceland’s rating outlook was cut to
negative at Moody’s Investors Service after a court ruling on
foreign currency loans threatened to trigger bank losses that
may require a government cash injection to offset.  
 Iceland’s Baa3 sovereign rating, the lowest investment
grade, may be lowered to junk if the bank ruling hurts the
island’s economic recovery and forces the government to raise
its debt levels by bailing out the banks, Moody’s said in a
statement.  
 “The magnitude of the banking system losses that will
result from the recent court ruling is not known at this time
but it is clear that Iceland still faces significant risks to
its economic and financial recovery,” said Kathrin
Muehlbronner, a Moody’s vice president and lead analyst for
Iceland, in the statement.  
 The June 16 decision by Iceland’s Supreme Court, which
banned loans indexed to foreign-exchange rates, may require the
government to step in a second time since 2008 to bail out the
island’s banks, Moody’s said. At the same time, the government
has yet to resolve a dispute with the U.K. and Dutch on how to
cover depositor claims worth about $5.1 billion. Failure to
settle the claims may prompt the International Monetary Fund and
other lenders to withhold future disbursements, Moody’s said.  
 “Although banks have some buffer to absorb losses due to
their currently high capitalization levels, Moody’s does not
rule out that Iceland’s banks will be faced with further losses
following the Supreme Court decision,” Muehlbronner said.
“This could in turn require the government to inject further
capital into the banks as the only realistic provider of
additional capital.”  
 FSA Rules  
 Some of Iceland’s lenders may be unable to meet the
regulator’s 16 percent capital adequacy requirement, Financial
Supervisory Authority Director  Gunnar Andersen  said in a July 14
interview. Economy Minister  Gylfi Magnusson  said then his
government would suffer a “severe blow” if called on to
support the banks with additional capital, though he didn’t rule
out financial support.  
 Iceland, which targets the removal of capital controls when
its IMF-led program expires in August next year, may be forced
to keep the restrictions longer following the court ruling,
Magnusson said in an interview yesterday.  
 “Undeniably, the removal of capital controls is based on
the premise that people have faith in the Icelandic economy and
the Icelandic krona,” he said. “This news doesn’t make that
easier.”  
 Converted Claims  
 The June ruling threatens to derail Iceland’s efforts to
rebuild relations with international investors almost two years
after the island’s financial system collapsed. Iceland, the
fifth-richest nation per capita as recently as 2007, faces
litigation from creditors in the island’s banks, who sought to
limit their losses last year by converting some of their claims
to equity, according to Arni Tomasson, the head of  Glitnir Bank
hf’s  winding up committee.  
 Fitch Ratings grades Iceland’s government debt one level
below investment grade at BB+ with a negative outlook. Standard
& Poor’s rates the island’s debt BBB-, one level above junk,
with a negative outlook.  
 “Doubts are likely to persist over the restoration of
Iceland’s access to international capital markets and the
liberalization of capital controls,” Fitch Senior Director  Paul Rawkins  said in a July 19 interview.  
 The IMF on June 28 delayed its third review of Iceland’s
program until the beginning of September, following the court’s
decision. The review had been planned to take place in July or
August.  
 Yen, Francs  
 Iceland’s financial crisis was exacerbated by banks that
borrowed in currencies such as Japanese yen and Swiss francs to
take advantage of lower interest rates, then repackaged them as
kronur loans for clients. The krona has lost 38 percent against
the yen and 30 percent against the franc since Sept. 15, 2008.
The government is struggling to pay down a gross debt burden
that will swell to 150 percent of economic output this year,
Moody’s estimates.  
 Arion Bank, the successor to failed  Kaupthing Bank hf ,
Islandsbanki, which was created out of Glitnir, and NBI, the
successor to  Landsbanki Islands hf , said this month the impact
the June court decision will have on their assets is as yet
unclear.  
 A July 23 ruling at the District Court of Reykjavik found
that lenders could charge borrowers higher Icelandic rates
instead of the contractual rates linked to foreign currency
rates that the loans were originally indexed to. That ruling was
based on a retail car loan. It is unclear whether mortgage and
corporate debt affected by the June 16 ruling will be able to
charge higher interest rates.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Omar Valdimarsson  in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        