-- Microsoft's Ballmer Says Tablet Computers `Top of Mind' Amid Apple Success
-- Dina Bass
-- 2010-07-30T00:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/microsoft-s-ballmer-says-tablet-computers-top-of-mind-amid-apple-success.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp.  Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer  said tablet computers are high on his
priority list as Apple Inc. takes the lead in a market his
company has tried to foster for more than a decade.  
 “Today, one of the top issues on my mind is ‘hey there’s a
category we have had Windows on for a long time and Apple’s done
an interesting job of putting together a synthesis and putting a
product out,’” Ballmer said today at Microsoft’s annual  analyst
meeting  at the company’s headquarters in Redmond, Washington.  
 Tablets based on Microsoft’s Windows operating system have
struggled since their initial release in 2002.  Apple , based in
Cupertino, California, sold 3.27 million iPads last quarter,
outselling all comparable computers. The device debuted April 3.  
 “We’re coming. We’re coming full guns,” Ballmer said.  
 Ballmer said the company is working with hardware partners
to produce compelling tablet computers and will be aided by the
release early next year of a new Intel Corp. chip, code-named
Oak Trail.  
 Oak Trail is a dual-core version of Intel’s Atom chip for
tablets. It will improve battery life by using half the power
while offering enough processing to provide smooth video and
fast Web surfing.  
 ‘Foreseeable Future’  
 Microsoft signed an expanded licensing agreement last week
with ARM Holdings Plc, whose chip designs are used in Apple’s
iPad. While the new accord could allow Microsoft to expand the
use of ARM chips in Windows 7-based tablets, Ballmer said the
machines would be based on Intel architecture for the
“foreseeable future.”  
 Over the longer-term, Ballmer said Microsoft would “embrace
what we need to over time in terms of hardware.”  
 Microsoft  rose 8 cents to $26.03 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have declined 15 percent
 this year .  
 Ballmer said he was less worried about competition in
tablets from  Google Inc. ’s Android and Chrome operating systems.  
 “Bring it, we relish the competition,” he said of Google’s
efforts in tablet operating systems. “If we can’t compete with
whatever the weird collection of Android machines is going to
look like, shame on us.”  
 Ballmer also commented on Microsoft’s mobile operating
system, Windows Phone 7, which is due on phones later this year.
Asked what he would do if the program is another Vista, a
reference to the poorly received version of Windows, Ballmer
replied “it won’t be.”  
 Separately, Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein  said
Microsoft’s board will address the subjects of dividends and
 share buybacks  at its fall  board  meeting, as it typically does.  
 Bloomberg data suggests Microsoft may announce an increase
in its quarterly  dividend  in September to 15 cents a share from
13 cents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Yacktman, manager of the Yacktman Focused Fund, discusses the performance of Viacom Inc., ConocoPhillips and Microsoft Corp. shares and the outlook for the companies.
     Yacktman speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
