-- High-Frequency Trading Faces EU Probe, Regulator Says
-- Ben Moshinsky
-- 2010-07-29T12:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/high-frequency-trading-faces-european-investigation-market-regulator-says.html

          
          
             High-frequency trading will be
investigated by regulators to “better understand any risks,”
Europe’s top market watchdog said in a report on proposed
industry rules.  
 A planned European Union market regulator should also have
the power to set standards for the tools used by high-frequency
traders, such as the practice of placing computer servers close
to trading venues to speed up market access, the Committee of
European Securities Regulators told the  European Commission .  
 Powers for the proposed European regulator should keep pace
“with new technological advances, increasingly fragmented
equity markets” and “shortcomings” in post-trade information,
 Sally Dewar , a managing director at the U.K.  Financial Services
Authority , said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 The commission, which proposes  legislation  for the 27-
nation EU, is reviewing a directive that governs trading across
the region. Paris-based CESR will take on additional powers at
the start of next year when it becomes the European Securities
and Markets Authority.  
 U.S. lawmakers have questioned whether the practice is
benefiting Wall Street at the expense of individual investors.
The  Securities and Exchange Commission  sought input from
securities professionals on strategies used by high-frequency
traders in January. EU officials met financial companies the
same month to gather information.  
 Price Discrepancies  
 High-frequency trading entails hedge funds and other firms
using powerful technology and complex computer programs to
execute orders in milliseconds to profit from fleeting
discrepancies in the prices of shares across different trading
venues.  
 The practice now accounts for 42 percent of the U.S.
market, Celent, a consulting firm in Boston, said in a study in
December. Proponents of the technique say it has lowered fees,
boosted liquidity and increased volume.  
 CESR also said Europe should develop a so-called
consolidated tape, a pricing mechanism for securities that
combines prices from multiple trading venues. The U.S. uses a
consolidated tape to price securities.  
 “Concrete steps” should be taken to set up a consolidated
tape “in the very short-term as we remain convinced of its
necessity,” CESR Chairman  Eddy Wymeersch  said in the statement.  
 The tape should be “run as a not-for-profit entity on the
basis of terms of reference and governance to be set out by
ESMA,” CESR’s recommendations said.  
 Consolidated tape would improve the quality of trading data
and “offer market users a single point of access” for
information CESR said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        