-- Illinois's Political Inaction Boosts Borrowing Costs, Budget Director Says
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-07-29T20:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/illinois-s-political-inaction-boosts-borrowing-costs-budget-director-says.html

          
          
             The price of political inaction is
adding up, Illinois’s budget director said, and it’s measured in
the state’s cost of borrowing.  
 Illinois has been penalized in the $2.8 trillion municipal
bond market because of the deficit,  David Vaught  said in an
interview. The state’s $1.3 billion short-term borrowing, which
officially closed yesterday, was more costly than a larger one a
year ago. The longest maturity due in June 2011 priced at a
yield of 2.125 percent. Last year’s $2.25 billion of short-term
borrowings priced at less than 2 percent.  
 The Legislature in  Illinois , which is in its worst
financial position ever, lost the political will to address the
state’s $13 billion deficit because of the November election,
said Governor  Pat Quinn ’s budget chief. They will find it after
voters cast their ballots, Vaught said.  
 “We’re going to pass a tax increase in January,” he said.
“We expect it is going to be substantial.”  
 Lawmakers probably will increase the individual and
corporate tax rates by 2 percentage points, generating $6
billion of new revenue, Vaught said.  
 The governor has called for boosting the rate by 1
percentage point to pay for education funding, and the state
Senate approved a 2 percentage-point increase,  John Sinsheimer ,
Quinn’s director of capital markets, said in an interview.  
 “We don’t know what the House is going to do,” Sinsheimer
said.  
 Double Downgrade  
 At one point before lawmakers passed reforms to cut the
cost of pension contributions, a rating company threatened the
state with a double downgrade if it didn’t take steps to address
its deficit, Vaught said.  
 “That’s real feedback,” he said. “If we don’t deal with
it, it will get worse.”  
 The state has been under pressure from companies that rate
municipal bonds to show it has the willingness to address its
deficit for the fiscal year that began July 1.  
 Fitch Ratings cut its rating on $25.7 billion of debt from
A+ to A, its sixth-highest investment grade, in June. Moody’s
Investors Service cut the rating one level to A1 on June 4.  
 Republicans used Vaught’s prediction to criticize Quinn and
fellow Democrat  Alexi Giannoulias , the state treasurer who is
the party’s nominee for the U.S. Senate seat once held by
President  Barack Obama .  
 ‘Illinois at Risk’  
 “The Quinn-Giannoulias plan to raise taxes on Illinois
families and small businesses when unemployment is at 10.4% is
the height of irresponsibility and will put any chances of a
strong economic recovery in Illinois at risk,” Ryan Tronovitch,
a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 Quinn faces Republican  Bill Brady , an Illinois state
senator, in the governor’s race. Giannoulias is running against
Republican  Mark Kirk,  a five-term congressman from Chicago’s
northern suburbs.  
 “Given Congressman Kirk’s record of misremembering, it’s
not a surprise he seems to think he is running for governor,”
said Kathleen Strand, a Giannoulias spokeswoman.  
 The state ended fiscal 2010 on June 30 “in the worst
fiscal position in its history,” Comptroller  Daniel Hynes  said
in a  report . The state’s backlog of unpaid bills rose to $4.7
billion from $2.8 billion a year earlier, Hynes said. The
state’s general fund balance fell to negative $4.7 billion, the
lowest level in the state’s history.  
 The cost of insuring five-year Illinois bonds against
default more than doubled to a record of $370,000 in June to
protect $10 million of debt, from a low of $155,000 in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price had fallen
back to $281,000 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Chicago at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        