-- Illinois Will Probably Raise Income-Tax Rate to 5%, Budget Director Says
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-07-29T02:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/illinois-will-probably-raise-income-tax-rate-to-5-budget-director-says.html

          
          
             Illinois , which is in its worst
financial position ever, will raise the income-tax rate in
January to address its deficit, Governor  Pat Quinn ’s budget
director said.  
 Lawmakers probably will increase the individual and
corporate income-tax rates by 2 percentage points, generating $6
billion of new revenue, the budget director,  David Vaught , said
in an interview. The Legislature failed to address the deficit
this year because of the November election, he said.  
 “We’re going to pass a tax increase in January,” Vaught
said. “We expect it is going to be substantial.”  
 The governor has called for boosting the rate by 1
percentage point to pay for education funding, and the state
Senate approved a 2 percentage point increase.  
 “We don’t know what the House is going to do,”  John Sinsheimer , Quinn’s director of capital markets, said in an
interview.  
 The state has been under pressure from companies that rate
municipal bonds to show it has the political will to address its
$13 billion deficit for the fiscal year that began July 1.  
 Fitch Ratings cut its rating on $25.7 billion of debt from
A+ to A, its sixth-highest investment grade, in June. Moody’s 
Investors Service cut its rating one level to A1 on June 4.  
 The cost of insuring five-year Illinois bonds against
default more than doubled to a record of $370,000 in June to
protect $10 million of debt, from a low of $155,000 in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price has fallen
back to $281,000 today.  
 Deficit Premium  
 Illinois has been penalized in the $2.8 trillion municipal
bond market because of the deficit, Vaught said. The state’s
$1.3 billion short-term borrowing, which officially closed
today, was more costly than a larger one a year ago. The
longest maturity, due in June 2011, priced at a yield of 2.125
percent. Last year’s $2.25 billion of short-term borrowings
priced at less than 2 percent.  
 At one point before lawmakers passed some reforms to cut
the cost of pension contributions, a rating company threatened
the state with a double downgrade if it didn’t take steps to
address the deficit, Vaught said.  
 “That’s real feedback,” Vaught said. “If we don’t deal
with it, it will get worse.”  
 The state ended fiscal 2010 on June 30 “in the worst
fiscal position in its history,” Comptroller  Daniel Hynes  said
in a  report . The state’s backlog of unpaid bills rose to $4.7
billion from $2.8 billion a year earlier, Hynes said. The
state’s general fund balance fell to negative $4.7 billion, the
lowest level in the state’s history.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        