-- India Needs Tighter Monetary Policy to Cool Inflation, RBI Official Says
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-29T08:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/india-needs-tighter-monetary-policy-to-cool-inflation-rbi-official-says.html

          
          
             India needs “aggressive” monetary
policy tightening to slow  inflation , a central bank official
said, sending bond yields to the highest level in almost three
months.  
 “Monetary tightening has to be more aggressive,” the
official, who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak to the media, said in New Delhi today.  
 Reserve Bank of India Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  this week
raised interest rates for the fourth time since mid-March to
cool prices. India’s wholesale-price inflation rate has stayed
above 10 percent since February and the finance ministry expects
it to accelerate as the June 25 fuel-price increase filters into
the economy.  
 Ten-year Indian government bond yields climbed three basis
points to 7.8 percent at 1:30 p.m. in Mumbai. The Bombay Stock
Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  was little changed at 17,946.95 while
the rupee gained 0.2 percent to 46.69 against the dollar.  
 Monsoon rains will play a key role in moderating food
prices, the official said.  
 India’s food inflation slowed for a second week, a
government report showed today, as monsoon rains enabled farmers
to plant more rice, cotton and soybeans.  
 An index measuring wholesale prices of agricultural
products compiled by the commerce ministry rose 9.67 percent in
the week ended July 17 from a year earlier. It gained 12.47
percent the previous week.  
 The June-September monsoon rains are the main source of
irrigation in India.  
 Subbarao on July 27 raised the reverse repurchase rate by
half a percentage point to 4.5 percent and the repurchase rate
to 5.75 percent from 5.5 percent.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government in June allowed
state-run refiners to increase prices of gasoline and diesel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net 
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        