-- Indonesian Stock Valuation Premium to More Than Double, Credit Suisse Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-29T00:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/indonesian-stock-valuation-premium-to-more-than-double-credit-suisse-says.html

          
          
             Indonesia’s  valuation  premium to
global emerging markets may more than double from current levels
even after gains that drove the nation’s benchmark index to a
record high, Credit Suisse Group AG said.  
 The Jakarta Composite Index has surged 27 percent in dollar
terms this year as the central bank kept interest rates low and
economic growth accelerated, making Indonesia the best performer
among the 21 countries that make up the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index. The gauge yesterday climbed 0.5 percent, closing at a
record high for a second day.  
 The gains mean Indonesia is now trading at an 18 percent
premium to global emerging markets, based on a model comparing
price to book value against return on equity, Credit Suisse
analysts led by  Sakthi Siva  wrote in a report today. That
compares with a record premium of 22 percent reached in August
2008 and previous highs of 38 percent and 36 percent,
respectively, for India and China, according to the report.  
 “While we tend not to favor overvalued markets, we are 2
percent overweight Indonesia,” said Siva, the top-ranked
strategist in Institutional Investor’s 2010 Asian poll. “There
appears to be potential for Indonesia to rerate to 30 percent to
40 percent premiums if we use India and  MSCI China  as a guide.”  
 Indonesia’s return on equity reached a low of 18.2 percent
amid the global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, according to
Siva. That compares “favorably” with the 10 percent average
for global emerging markets and tops all four of the largest
developing nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China, the
brokerage said.  
 Economic Growth  
 Indonesia’s economy may have expanded 5.8 percent in the
first half of this year and may grow 6 percent in the second
half, the Finance Ministry said in a statement presented during
a parliament hearing in Jakarta on July 26. Southeast Asia’s
largest economy expanded 5.7 percent in the first quarter this
year from a year earlier, the fastest pace since 2008.  
 Domestic credit to the private sector in Indonesia is 26
percent of the nation’s gross domestic product, compared with 80
percent for developing nations worldwide, the analyst wrote.  
 “While proponents of the structural growth story for
Indonesia tend to focus on the large  young population , rapidly
rising per capita GDP and domestically-led growth, we are more
attracted by Indonesia’s structurally high ROE and low credit
penetration,” Siva said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        