-- Indonesia's Stocks May Extend Bull Run on Earnings Outlook, Bahana Says
-- Berni Moestafa
-- 2010-07-29T10:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/indonesia-s-stocks-may-extend-bull-run-on-earnings-outlook-bahana-says.html

          
          
             Indonesia’s stocks, the first in
Asia to enter a bull market since the peak of the European debt
crisis in May, may extend gains as first-half earnings beat
analyst estimates, PT Bahana TCW Investment Management said.  
 The  Jakarta Composite index  may rise 3.4 percent to 3,200
by the end of the year as banks and consumer companies report
“strong” earnings, said  Soni Wibowo , vice president of Bahana,
the nation’s second-best performing fund. Analysts are poised to
boost their profit forecasts for the nation’s companies,
increasing their appeal on a valuation basis, he said.  
 “Our rebound was faster as companies here have better
return on equity and the economic growth prospect is more stable
than that of our peers,” Wibowo, who helps manage $1.7 billion
at Bahana, said in an interview in Jakarta today. “Stock
valuations are neither expensive nor cheap but if profits are
improving, there’s room for stocks to turn a bit cheaper.”  
 The benchmark stock index has risen 22 percent this year,
the best performer among Asia’s 10 biggest markets, as record-
low interest rates accelerated growth in Southeast Asia’s
biggest economy and boosted earnings.  
 The  measure  climbed 1.3 percent to a record 3,096.82 at the
close, the biggest gain among Asian markets today. The increase
extended the advance to 23 percent from its May 25 low.  
 Indonesia is the first among the 10 biggest markets to
increase 20 percent from the global selloff in May. The
magnitude of the gain is defined by analysts as a bull market.  
 Valuations  
 This year’s rally has lifted the estimated earnings of the
409 companies in the measure to 15.4 times, compared with 14.4
times on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 PT Jasa Marga , an Indonesian toll-road operator, is poised
to beat analysts’ earnings forecasts for this year after posting
first-half net income of 647.6 billion rupiah ($72 million). The
company is expected to post a profit of 1 trillion rupiah for
2010, according to the median of 15 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 PT Bank Negara Indonesia , the nation’s third biggest state-
owned bank, may double its net income this year, President
Director  Gatot Suwondo  said this week. That compares with a 50
percent increase analysts forecast. Publicly listed companies
have until the end of this month to file their first-half
financial statements.  
 ‘Structural Growth Story’  
 Indonesia’s return on equity reached a low of 18.2 percent
amid the global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, Credit Suisse
Group AG’s analyst Sakthi Siva said in a report today. That
compares “favorably” with the 10 percent average for global
emerging markets and tops all four of the largest developing
nations of Brazil, Russia, India and China, the brokerage said.  
 “While proponents of the structural growth story for
Indonesia tend to focus on the large  young population , rapidly
rising per capita GDP and domestically-led growth, we are more
attracted by Indonesia’s structurally high ROE and low credit
penetration,” said Siva, the top-ranked strategist in
Institutional Investor’s 2010 Asian poll.  
 Inflation concerns may escalate in the next few weeks
because of high food prices and the electricity tariff
increases,  Helmi Arman , an economist at PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia, said on July 20. Consumer prices increased 5.1
percent in June, the fastest pace in Southeast Asia after
Vietnam, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Low Borrowing Costs  
 The central bank on July 5 kept its benchmark interest rate
at a record low of 6.5 percent for an 11th month. The country
has held back from tightening monetary policy even as neighbors
from  Malaysia  to India raised borrowing costs this year to avert
asset bubbles and contain inflation in a region that’s leading
the global economic recovery.  
 Indonesia’s interest rate is at the lowest level since it
was introduced in July 2005. The government expects economic
growth to accelerate to 5.9 percent this year from 4.5 percent
in 2009, as domestic consumption helped offset any impact from
the European debt crisis.  
 “The domestic story is more interesting than then export-
oriented sector as the global setting isn’t too attractive,”
said Wibowo, whose Bahana Optima Protected Fund 18 returned 91
percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        