-- Insurers Need a Common Global Rule for Bookkeeping, Accounting Body Says
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-07-30T13:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/international-accounting-body-proposes-common-rule-for-insurance-contracts.html

          
          
             The international body that sets
accounting rules used in more than 110 countries including
Britain, Japan and Germany said insurance companies should
standardize bookkeeping to give investors better data.  
 The proposed change would require, for the first time, a
single standard that insurers in all jurisdictions could apply
consistently to their contracts, according to a statement today
from the  International Accounting Standards Board  in London.  
 “A fundamental review of insurance accounting was long
overdue, with current practice resulting in financial
information that is impenetrable to all but the most expert of
users,” IASB Chairman  David Tweedie  said in the statement.  
 The proposal follows a discussion paper published in 2007
as part of a plan to make standards reflect the true value of
contracts, the IASB said. When the organization was created in
2001, there were no such international financial reporting
requirements for contracts, according to the statement.  
 The draft is open for public comment until Nov. 30.  
 Peter Vipond , director of financial regulation and taxation
at the Association of British Insurers, said current insurance
accounting methods have been inconsistent and haven’t adequately
captured “the economics of the industry.”  
 “We are pleased that the IASB aims to offer a modern
approach based on current measures that may offer investors a
clearer view of insurers’ obligations and performance,” Vipond
said in an e-mailed statement.  
 David Law , an insurance partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP in London, said the rule will result in one of the biggest
challenges to the industry in recent years.  
 “The impact will be felt across the sector and will
require insurers to conduct a complete overhaul of their systems
and performance reporting,” Law said today in a statement.
“These proposals will hit industry resources hard, at a time
when they are already scarce.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        