-- Sell Default Protection on Japan Government Bonds, Credit Agricole Says
-- Yusuke Miyazawa
-- 2010-07-29T04:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/investors-should-sell-japan-sovereign-default-swaps-credit-agricole-says.html

          
          
             Investors should sell credit-default
swaps on Japanese government debt because prices overlook the
nation’s improving economic growth outlook, according to Credit
Agricole SA.  
 “This is a very strong investment opportunity at the
moment,”  Vincent Thebault , head of debt and credit markets for
Japan at Credit Agricole CIB, said in an interview yesterday at
his Tokyo office. “Japan will really do all it can to avoid a
default. In the short term, it seems there is a very low
probability for Japan to default.”  
 The cost of insuring Japanese sovereign debt with credit-
default swaps hit 99.7 basis points on May 25, the highest in
more than a year, according to data provider CMA. It almost
tripled between August 2009 and May 2010, and rose 1 basis point
to 70 basis points yesterday.  Five-year government bonds  yield
0.36 percent.  
 Japan is the world’s most indebted nation, Bank for
International Settlements figures show. Investors worldwide have
focused on the threat of default by indebted countries. The
European Union announced a rescue package in May of almost $1
trillion, with support from the International Monetary Fund, to
shore up the finances of the euro area’s weakest economies, such
as Greece and Portugal.  
 Thebault recommends a strategy of offering protection
against default, exploiting a rise in Japanese government
credit-default swap costs across different maturities. “Some
may think Japanese credit-default swaps should be higher, and
buy protection,” he said.  
 Growth Improves  
 Credit Agricole suggests international investors have
overlooked “domestic fundamentals” in their concern over
Japan’s debt levels.  
 Japanese policy makers raised the growth forecast for the
year ending March 2011 to 2.6 percent, from the 1.8 percent
estimated in April, the central bank said in a July 15  statement .  
 Borrowings are approaching 200 percent of gross domestic
product, the highest ratio in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, government figures show. Japan
racked up liabilities to try to spend its way out of economic
stagnation and deflation following the burst of an asset-price
bubble 20 years ago.  
 Japanese government bonds are mostly held by domestic
investors who are “used to low rates and keep buying,” said
Thebault.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt,
and typically rise as investor confidence deteriorates.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        