-- Iran May Get Gasoline From Russia State Companies Next Month, Chamber Says
-- Stephen Bierman
-- 2010-07-29T14:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/iran-may-get-gasoline-from-russian-state-companies-dodging-u-s-sanctions.html

          
          
             Three Russian state-controlled oil
companies, including  OAO Rosneft  and OAO Gazprom Neft, may begin
delivering gasoline to Iran in a month, said the head of the
Iran Commission of the  Moscow Chamber of Commerce & Industry .  
 Talks are being held on a “working level” and the first
delivery may take place in late August or September,  Rajab
Safarov  said in an interview in Moscow today.  
 “We’re talking about serious deliveries,” Safarov said.
“Obviously U.S. and European Union sanctions open up a niche.”  
 Iranian Oil Minister  Masoud Mir-Kazemi  traveled to Moscow
earlier this month to sign a “road map” on Russian energy
cooperation for the next 30 years. While the Kremlin in June
supported United Nations sanctions over Iran’s nuclear program,
Russia criticized additional measures adopted by the U.S. and EU
targeting the Iranian energy industry.  
 Iran, the world’s fourth largest crude producer, is
vulnerable because it doesn’t refine enough oil for its own
consumption, making it reliant on imports. The U.S. sanctions
penalize foreign companies that sell gasoline to Iran.  
 “Right now logistics, bank guarantees and pricing are
being worked out,” said Safarov. The third company under
consideration is OAO Tatneft, a regional oil producer based in
the Muslim region of Tatarstan on the Volga River, he said.  
 Until now, only small and medium-sized traders have been
delivering Russian gasoline to Iran, according to Safarov.
Bigger contracts with state involvement are becoming necessary
as demand for gasoline grows, he said.  
 European Halt  
 Many European companies have already stopped selling to
Iran. Paul Floren, a spokesman for Total SA, Europe’s second-
biggest oil company, confirmed June 28 that the Paris-based
company had halted refined products sales to Iran. Russia
produces about 2.8 million metric tons of gasoline a month,
according to data from CDU TEK, the Energy Ministry’s central
dispatch unit in Moscow.  
 Safarov said some Russian cargoes could be delivered by
rail from neighboring Turkmenistan. Others could be shipped
across the Caspian Sea by tanker, as Russia doesn’t share a land
border with Iran. Safarov didn’t specify any volumes.  
 The additional sanctions, including those imposed by the EU
this week, are “counterproductive” Safarov said, adding that
European companies would still find a way to work with Iran via
third countries.  
 Vladlen Voskoboinikov , director of international financial
reporting for Tatneft, said he wasn’t familiar with the talks.
Spokesmen for Rosneft were not available, and the Gazprom Neft
press office declined to comment.  
 Russian Energy Ministry spokeswoman  Irina Yesipova  declined
to comment, saying talks were up to the companies.  
 The Moscow chamber of commerce “provides membership to new
organizations interested in the development of Russian economy
and favorable conditions to help Russian business prosper,”
according to its website.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lucian Kim  in Moscow at 
 lkim3@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Bierman  in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        