-- Iran Air Plans Share Sale to Finance Growth, Fleet Upgrade Amid Sanctions
-- Ladane Nasseri
-- 2010-07-29T21:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/iran-air-plans-share-sale-to-finance-growth-fleet-upgrade-amid-sanctions.html

          
          
             Iran Air , the state-owned flag
carrier, plans to sell its first shares to the public and buy as
many as 100 new aircraft to expand in the face of tighter
international sanctions, the company’s chairman said.  
 Iran Air is seeking to modernize its aging fleet of
foreign-built jetliners, which it operates amid political
obstacles to the purchase of new planes and spare parts from
European suppliers including Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS, Chairman
Farhad Parvaresh said.  
 “Our company will be going into the Tehran Stock
Exchange,” Parvaresh said in his first interview with foreign
media since his appointment as head of the company last October.
“We are creating the conditions for this. Whether that will be
100 percent, 70 percent, 60 percent, we are working on this.”
He said it was too early to give a timeframe for the IPO.  
 An initial public offering would help Iran Air finance its
planned expansion, even as the Persian Gulf country comes under
a new round of sanctions over its nuclear activities.  
 The United Nations Security Council passed a fourth round
of sanctions over Iran’s nuclear program in June. President
Barack Obama intensified U.S. sanctions against Iran on July 1,
targeting foreign suppliers of aviation fuel and other refined
oil products and blocking access to the U.S. financial system
for banks doing business with the country.  
 Unit Listings  
 Homa Hotels, an Iran Air subsidiary, is already listed on
the Tehran bourse.  Iran Air Tour , another unit, is expected to
go public by the end of the Iranian calendar year on March 20,
2011, he said. Parvaresh did not provide a timeframe for Iran
Air itself to issue and sell shares to the public.  
 The  Tehran Stock Exchange , home of the world’s second-best
performing equity index in the first half of the year, has a
total value of 747 trillion Iranian rials ($75 billion).  
 The European Union tightened trade restrictions on July 26,
banning fresh investment in or sales to Iran’s oil and natural
gas industries, curbing export-credit guarantees, and monitoring
more closely banks that do business in the country.  
 The U.S. and its allies accuse Iran of pursuing a nuclear
weapons capability, an allegation that Iran rejects, insisting
that its nuclear program is civilian and needed to provide
electricity to a growing population.  
 “We have had restrictions to get planes but have made
efforts and succeeded,” Parvaresh said at his office in Tehran.
“We have restrictions to get parts, but have managed. It’s
still difficult, but we are making efforts.”  
 Iran Air’s fleet includes 53 aircraft from Boeing, Airbus
and Dutch manufacturer Fokker. The planes are 21 years old on
average.  
 “We are always thinking about buying new planes,”
Parvaresh said. “Perhaps we need some 100 aircraft. Boeing and
Airbus are making a huge mistake not to use this market.”  
 The company, founded in 1962, will acquire new planes
“whenever we have an opportunity,” he said. “It’s not very
easy. Certain conditions need to be met, and when they are, we
will buy.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        