-- Israeli Startup Correlix's Technology Selected for Direct Edge Exchanges
-- Gwen Ackerman
-- 2010-07-29T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/israeli-startup-correlix-s-technology-selected-for-direct-edge-exchanges.html

          
          
             Correlix Ltd., the Israeli startup
whose software monitors the speed of transactions on financial
exchanges, said its RaceTeam technology was chosen by Direct
Edge Holdings LLC for the new EDGX and EDGA exchanges.  
 The company is “working on a few other large deals with
other exchanges,”  Shawn Melamed , founder, president and chief
technology officer, said in a phone interview from New York.
European bourses are expected to be added as customers next
year, he said. The company added Nasdaq OMX as a customer in
November.  
 Melamed declined to disclose the value of the Direct Edge
deal or financial information for New York-based Correlix.
Direct Edge, which is majority owned by International Securities
Exchange,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Citadel Investment Group LLC
and  Knight Capital Group Inc.  has daily U.S. cash equities
volume “routinely exceeding” 1 billion shares, according to a
press release.  
 Financial firms spent about $15 billion on data centers in
2009, with most of the money driven by a need to reduce delays,
 Tabb Group , a Massachusetts-based markets research company, said
in a June report. Correlix software helps exchanges quickly fix
problems in transaction speed and provides information to let
brokers decide how to trade for the maximum benefit, Melamed
said.  
 Growing Market  
 The market for the kind of tool  Correlix  offers has grown
considerably over the last three years, according to  Kevin McPartland , an analyst for Tabb. Another boost for the market
may come if regulators insist on transparency in the area of
latency, the time it takes for an order to travel to an
exchange, be executed or canceled, and then for the confirmation
to reach the source.  
 “There was a lot of talk on that a few months ago,”
McPartland said. “This technology is creating more transparency
on how markets work and interact with one another.”  
 As the market for these monitoring tools heats up,
competitors such as  Corvil  and other technology providers are
increasing their market data or high-speed connectivity
offerings, he said. Corvil customers include the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange, NYSE Euronext, the London Stock Exchange
and Deutsche Borse Group, according to its website.  
 Correlix, which also has offices in London and Herzliya,
Israel, is backed by Sequoia Capital Partners, Genesis Partners,
Blumberg Capital and others.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at o
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        