-- Mitsui O.S.K. Inspects Oil Tanker After Explosion From a Possible Attack
-- Chris Cooper
-- 2010-07-29T07:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/mitsui-o-s-k-inspects-oil-tanker-after-explosion-from-a-possible-attack.html

          
          
             Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd.  began
inspecting an oil tanker after an explosion that may have been
caused by an attack near the Strait of Hormuz, deemed by the U.S.
to be the most important  chokepoint  for oil supplies.  
 The M. Star, a very large crude carrier, is anchored off
Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates, Masahiko Hibino, the
company’s tanker safety head, told reporters today in Tokyo. He
declined to comment on whether pirates could have caused the
blast.  
 The vessel may have been involved in a collision, Moosa
Murad, general manager at the Port of Fujairah, said by phone
today. The Strait of Hormuz connects the Persian Gulf and the
Gulf of Oman and is a transit point for tankers hauling oil from
producers including Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Iraq and Kuwait.  
 Mitsui, operator of the world’s second-largest oil-tanker
fleet, said 10 people are working on the investigation, which is
being aided by the U.S. and the U.K. It’s unclear how long it
will take, Hibino said.  
 The crew haven’t been able to say if any other vessels were
near them at the time of the incident, Murad said. Both Murad
and Hibino said it was unlikely that a wave caused the damage.  
 The explosion, which “may have been caused by an external
attack,” occurred at 5:30 a.m. Tokyo time yesterday, injuring
one of the crew, Mitsui said in a  statement .  
 The tanker, anchored about 10 miles off Fujairah, will
likely remain there for three to four days, Murad said.  
 Hormuz Traffic  
 As much as 17 million barrels of oil a day passed through
the Strait of Hormuz in the first half of 2008, equal to about
40 percent of all seaborne-traded oil, according to estimates of
the U.S. Energy Information Administration, part of the Energy
Department. Located between Oman and Iran, the strait is 21
miles wide at its narrowest point. Most of the oil goes to Asia,
the U.S. and Western Europe, the EIA says.  
 There haven’t been any reported piracy attacks in the
northern Gulf of Oman since October last year, according to data
from the  International Maritime Bureau  in London.  
 A pirate attack at this time of year would be “difficult”
because of rough seas caused by monsoons,  Cyrus Mody , an IMB
official, said yesterday.  
 Mitsui , based in Tokyo, fell 0.5 percent to 602 yen in
trading in the city today. Separately, the company raised its
full-year profit forecast on rebounding world trade.  
 The company operates an oil-tanker fleet with a carrying
capacity of 15.4 million deadweight tons, second only to
Frontline Ltd.’s 16.8 million deadweight tons, according to  data 
on its website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        