-- Retail Sales Gain on Clothes, Cars, Supporting View Recovery is Intact
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-07-29T02:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/japan-s-retail-sales-growth-improves-to-3-2-on-demand-for-cars-clothing.html

          
          
             Japan’s  retail sales  growth
improved in June after the biggest slowdown in more than a year,
supporting the central bank’s assessment that the economic
recovery is intact.  
 Sales increased 3.2 percent from a year earlier, the sixth
straight gain, led by demand for cars, gasoline and clothes,
the Trade Ministry said today in Tokyo. The result matched the
median estimate of 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  
 The report adds to evidence that the economic rebound may
last even as export growth slows.  Sentiment  among Japanese has
increased every month this year as wages and job prospects
improve, signaling household spending may withstand the expiry
of government stimulus measures later this year.  
 “Consumer spending will likely increase gradually, albeit
at low levels,” said  Mika Ikeda , an economist at Nomura
Securities Co. in Tokyo. The effects of government incentives
to purchase durable goods “are wearing off,” she said.  
 The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 0.5 percent at the 11
a.m. lunch break in Tokyo after the Federal Reserve said U.S.
growth was slowing in some areas, clouding the outlook for
Japanese exporters.  
 Last month’s retail improvement came after annual sales
growth slowed 2 percentage points in May, the  worst
deterioration  since February 2009. Hotter-than-usual weather
spurred demand for drinks, ice cream and summer clothes, with
temperatures in Japan’s eight major cities 1.4 degrees Celsius
higher than the June average, the ministry said.  
 Car Incentives  
 Clothing and fabric sales climbed 5.3 percent from a year
earlier. Car sales advanced 12.4 percent on government
incentives that are scheduled to expire in September. Fuel
receipts increased 8.4 percent.  
 Retail sales  rose a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent in
June from May, when they declined 2 percent, the biggest drop
in more than five years, today’s report showed.  
 Bank of Japan board member  Hidetoshi Kamezaki  yesterday
repeated the central bank’s view that the economy is likely to
continue to recover gradually.  
 Matsuya Co. , the department-store chain, is among
retailers benefiting from an improving outlook for households.
The company tripled its first-half net income outlook this
month, citing higher-than-expected sales.  
 Japanese  consumer confidence  climbed to the highest level
since 2007 in June, driven by optimism about jobs and paychecks
even as stocks tumbled on concern the global recovery will cool.
The ratio of job openings to applicants in May was the highest
in more than a year, and  wages  grew for a third month.  
 ‘Marginal Boosts’  
 “We’re already beginning to see some marginal boosts”
from improvements in wages and the job market, said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.  
 Still, Adachi added that the spending rebound may stall at
the beginning of next year after government incentives to buy
electronic appliances expire in December. That will come just
as the export slowdown becomes more pronounced as the global
recovery moderates, he said.  
 Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage, this week
cut its forecast for  growth  in Japan, citing a stronger yen and
waning exports. The economy will expand 1.5 percent next fiscal
year, less than the 2.1 percent Nomura predicted earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 28 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a second day, after orders or durable goods unexpectedly decreased and the Federal Reserve said economic growth slowed in some areas. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
