-- Japan's Bond Futures Enter ``Correction'' on Ichimoku: Technical Analysis
-- Nobuyuki Akama
-- 2010-07-29T07:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/japan-s-bond-futures-enter-correction-on-ichimoku-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             Japanese bond futures are heading
for a “correction” after rising to a seven-year high earlier
this month, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. said,
citing trading patterns.  
 Ten-year futures have fallen below the so-called conversion
line on an ichimoku chart, which suggests the recent run of
gains is ending, said  Katsutoshi Inadome , a fixed-income
strategist at the unit of Japan’s largest banking group.  
 “The decline below the conversion line signals that buy
orders will weaken over the short term,” Tokyo-based Inadome
said, adding that had he changed his rating on the securities to
“neutral” from “buy.”  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery closed at
141.72 today on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, after rising to 142.08
on July 22, the highest for a benchmark 10-year contract since
August 2003. They fell as low as 141.55 yesterday, below the
conversion line of 141.75 on the daily ichimoku chart.  
 Bond futures are still in a longer-term uptrend as they
remain above the baseline on the ichimoku chart, which is
currently at 141.30, Inadome said.  
 The contracts may repeat a pattern seen earlier this month
when they fell below the conversion line on July 6 before
returning to a rising trend on July 15, he said.  
 Ichimoku charts are used to predict a currency’s direction
through analyzing the midpoints of historical highs and lows.
The conversion line plots the sum of the highest high and lowest
low over the last nine trading days. The baseline is the same
calculation over the past 26 days.  
 In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nobuyuki Akama  in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        