-- Japan's Bonds Complete Four-Month Gain on Rising Jobless Rate, Deflation
-- Masaki Kondo
-- 2010-07-30T06:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/japan-s-bonds-may-gain-for-second-day-on-deflation-u-s-economy-concerns.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  rose, with 10-year
debt completing a fourth monthly gain, after government reports
showed the jobless rate unexpectedly increased and consumer
prices declined, boosting demand for the safety of debt.  
 Benchmark futures rose toward a seven-year high before a
U.S. report today forecast to show economic growth slowed last
quarter in the world’s biggest economy. A group of ruling-party
lawmakers said today they will press Prime Minister Naoto Kan to
do more to tackle deflation, which enhances the purchasing power
of the fixed payments from debt.  
 “I don’t think there will be a major change in Japan’s
deflationary environment,” said  Hisakazu Amano , who helps
oversee about $18 billion at T&D Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.
“Yields may rebound temporarily, but there seems to be no
reason for yields to enter an upward trend.”  
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell 1.5 basis
points to 1.065 percent as of 3:08 p.m. at Japan Bond Trading
Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.1
percent security due June 2020 rose 0.134 yen to 100.312 yen.
Ten-year yields have dropped two basis points this month.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery gained 0.12 to
141.84 at 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange after
climbing to 142.08 on July 22, the highest since August 2003.  
 Bonds advanced after the statistics bureau said Japan’s
 unemployment rate  climbed to a seven-month high of 5.3 percent
in June, while economists had estimated 5.2 percent. Factory
output slid 1.5 percent from May.  Consumer prices  excluding
fresh food declined 1 percent from a year earlier.  
 ‘Lack of Investment’  
 “The biggest reason for deflation is a lack of investment
opportunities for businesses in the country,” T&D’s Amano said.
“The situation won’t improve anytime soon regardless of what
measures the central bank or government take.”  
 A group of  Democratic Party of Japan  legislators led by  Jin Matsubara  will present their demands to Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  today, they said at a meeting in Tokyo. Their
proposals include pushing the Bank of Japan to buy long-term
government bonds and follow a government policy of setting an
inflation target of 2 percent to 3 percent.  
 U.S. economic growth slowed to 2.6 percent in the second
quarter, from 2.7 percent in the prior three months, according
to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before today’s Commerce
Department report. Household purchases climbed 2.4 percent after
expanding 3 percent, the survey showed.  
 ‘Japanese-Style Outcome’  
 The U.S. is closer to “Japanese-style outcome,” Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said in a
research paper released yesterday.  
 “The decline in Japanese bond yields will continue because
of concern about a slowdown in the U.S. economy,” said  Kazuya Ito , a fund manager in Tokyo at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., a
unit of Japan’s second-largest brokerage.  
 The U.S. was Japan’s second-biggest export market after
China by the value of products shipped during the first half of
2010, according to the Ministry of Finance.  
 Ten-year yields may fall as low as 0.9 percent by Oct. 31,
Mizuho Securities Co. forecast in a report today. Investors
would get a 1.7 percent return should yields drop to 0.9 percent
at the end of October, according to Bloomberg calculations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        