-- Jobless Making California Court Companies From Korea to Croatia
-- Vivien Lou Chen
-- 2010-07-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/jobless-make-california-court-companies-from-korea-to-croatia-as-employers.html

          
          
             In California’s Riverside County,
Japan’s Wakunaga Pharmaceutical Co. is building a 55,000-square-
foot  manufacturing  and distribution site that will employ as
many as 300 people before and after completion in January.  
 “If this didn’t open up, we definitely would be sitting at
home for who knows how long,” said construction foreman Javier
Duran, 45, who earns about $30 an hour. “It doesn’t matter
where it comes from, as long as we get work.”  
 Riverside, part of a metropolitan region that was once
California’s fastest new-jobs creator, is courting companies
like Wakunaga and South Korea’s  Jusung Engineering Co.  to bring
down a 14.5 percent unemployment rate. County officials from
California to Texas and Virginia are combating the worst revenue
crisis in two decades and a national jobless rate near the
highest in a quarter-century by competing for a shrinking share
of foreign direct investments.  
 “Riverside County is the most aggressive in seeking
overseas investors” among many California regions that are
looking to create jobs, said Paul McIntosh, executive director
of the group that represents the state’s 58 counties. A skilled
labor force, abundant land, and proximity to ports in Los
Angeles and Long Beach make it easier to forge  trade  deals, he
said.  
 With a population of 2.2 million, Riverside County is
bigger than Slovenia, which competed in the World Cup, and home
of the desert city Palm Springs. It has 477 foreign-owned
businesses, county foreign-trade commissioner Tom Freeman said,
and a 14.5 percent jobless level that compares with a national
average of 9.5 percent and California rate of 12.3 percent.  
 California has the nation’s third-highest jobless rate,
after Nevada and Michigan.  
 Japan, Croatia  
 Riverside officials have contacted representatives of at
least 10 countries in the past 12 months, Freeman said. They
signed a pact with Croatian delegates on July 13 to promote each
other’s exports and tourism industries. Two weeks before,
Riverside and Japan’s consul general in Los Angeles agreed to
work on a study that will determine the county’s potential for
future investments.  
 California, New York and Texas are the largest recipients
of projects through foreign direct investments in the U.S.,
which fell 59 percent to $134.7 billion last year from $328.3
billion in 2008, according to London-based fDi Intelligence and
the Bureau of Economic Analysis in Washington. Investments
rebounded to $47.3 billion in the first quarter, compared with
$5.87 billion a year earlier and $80.6 billion during the first
three months of 2008, the bureau’s preliminary data shows.  
 Tax Abatements  
 In Texas, China’s  Tianjin Pipe Group Corp.  is spending $1
billion to build a production mill in the Corpus Christi area.
Tianjin, which chose the site because it’s close to companies
like Shell Oil Co. and Chevron Corp., will get property-tax
abatements over 10 years from San Patricio County based on the
number of jobs created and the land’s future value, said Leah
Olivarri, a spokeswoman for its U.S. unit.  
 Canadian snack maker Saratoga Potato Chips LLC is investing
$4.9 million on a U.S. headquarters in Fort Wayne, Indiana, that
will employ as many as 175 people. In return,  Indiana  is
offering as much as $1 million in performance-based tax credits.  
 “Turning to those with deep pockets is the most promising
prospect for many of these state and local governments that are
desperate to rekindle job and production growth,” said  Charles McMillion , president and chief economist at forecasting firm MBG
Information Services in Washington, who has studied labor
markets for 30 years. “Those with deep pockets are now often
outside our borders.”  
 Inland Empire  
 From 2000 to 2006, Riverside and adjacent San Bernardino
County, known as the Inland Empire, created 340,000 jobs, or 33
percent of all in California, fueled by its role as an
affordable destination for homebuyers from the coast and
warehouse and transportation hub for companies like Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. and Target Corp., said  John Husing , founder of
Economics & Politics Inc., a consulting firm in Redlands,
California, that specializes in the Inland Empire.  
 When U.S.  housing  prices began to collapse in 2006,
followed by the deepest recession since the Great Depression,
Riverside’s reliance on construction and trade became drawbacks.  
 The property and sales taxes that made up the county’s main
sources of revenue plummeted, sending discretionary income down
25 percent to 30 percent in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009,
said Marion Ashley, 74, chairman of the board of supervisors.
Officials now expect deficits of as much as $87 million over the
next two years, he said.  
 ‘Dire Need’  
 “Cities and counties are in dire need,” said Jeff Finkle,
president and chief executive of the  International Economic
Development Council  in Washington. “Because of the recession,
communities have far fewer deals to pursue. In good times, you
could be more selective in terms of what you chase. In bad
times, you shoot at everything that moves.”  
 In March 2009, Riverside, an hour east of Los Angeles,
created an  Office of Foreign Trade  inside its Economic
Development Agency, setting off a yearlong effort to boost
exports and attract investors. The county offers low-interest
loans, redevelopment funds to build streets and sewers, and a
fast-track program for processing permits and approvals in a few
months instead of years, said agency head Robert Field. It also
provides employee recruitment and training, yet doesn’t
typically offer tax breaks, he said.  
 “Riverside is offering a model that other counties can
follow to attract foreign investments, without having to give up
significant incentives,” said McIntosh of the California State
Association of Counties.  
 Dirt Lot  
 Osaka-based Wakunaga, maker of  Kyolic -brand dietary
supplements, is building a new facility on a dirt lot in Mira
Loma where diesel trucks bustle less than 10 miles (16.1
kilometers) from abandoned homes. Next door is Wakunaga’s
existing raw-materials processing site, which employs 10 people,
said Tsuyoshi Sakai, controller and general counsel of the
company’s U.S. subsidiary.  
 Mira Loma was selected for the project because it’s not far
from the current plant, LA-Ontario International Airport, and
garlic farms in Fresno that supply the raw materials, Sakai
said. He added that Wakunaga “was not offered any special
incentives from the county.”  
 Jusung, the Gyeonggi-do, South Korea-based maker of
semiconductor equipment that competes with Applied Materials
Inc., is looking to build two solar-related plants on
Riverside’s west side. Company spokeswoman Song-me Lee declined
to comment. Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market, part of Cheshunt,
England-based  Tesco Plc , has opened 15 stores in the county
since 2007, said spokesman  Brendan Wonnacott .  
 “Foreign-direct investment can be a win and sometimes it
can be a tie,” Finkle said. “It can be a win if there are jobs
existing outside the U.S. that come here. It can be a tie when
there are some new jobs, but we’re losing some elsewhere in the
economy.”  
 Still, “all economic development organizations are under
intense pressure to find jobs and are doing everything they
can,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     This 55,000 manufacturing and distribution site in Riverside County is expected to employ as many as 300 people when it opens. Photographer: Jonathan Alcorn/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
