-- Wyly Brothers' $550 Million Stock Sales Prompt SEC Fraud Claim
-- David Scheer
-- 2010-07-30T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/jpmorgan-to-open-full-branch-in-saudi-arabia-in-emerging-market-expansion.html

          
          
             Samuel Wyly  and  Charles Wyly , the
Texan brothers and entrepreneurs who funded ads helping  George W. Bush ’s presidential campaigns, were sued by U.S. regulators
who accused them of misleading investors while selling hundreds
of millions of dollars in stock.  
 The Wylys used “an elaborate sham system of trusts and
subsidiary companies” in the Isle of Man and Cayman Islands
over a 13-year period to hide control of securities linked to
companies where they were board members, the Securities and
Exchange Commission said yesterday in a lawsuit filed in New
York federal court. They illegally kept investors in the dark as
they sold off holdings, and in one case made illegal insider
trades, the SEC said.  
 “The cloak of secrecy has been lifted from the complex web
of foreign structures used by the Wylys to evade the securities
laws,” the SEC’s deputy enforcement director,  Lorin Reisner ,
said in a statement. “They used these structures to conceal
hundreds of millions of dollars of gains in violation of the
disclosure requirements for corporate insiders.”  
 The brothers “intend to vigorously defend themselves --
and expect to be fully vindicated,” said their attorney,
 William A. Brewer III  in Dallas.  
 Board members’ stock purchases and sales can help other
investors gauge leadership’s confidence in a company’s future
earnings. The Wylys used their offshore network to sell $750
million in securities, including $550 million of shares in
large-block trades, most of which were done under “materially
false or misleading” regulatory filings, the SEC said.  
 ‘Knew or Were Reckless’  
 The lawsuit also targets a lawyer and a stockbroker for
their alleged roles in the fraud. The Wylys and the lawyer
either “knew or were reckless in not knowing” that the
brothers were obligated to disclose stock transactions in
regulatory filings, the agency wrote in the complaint.  
 In a statement, Brewer said “the Wylys have always
received the advice and counsel of leading accounting and legal
professionals. They have never been given any reason to believe
the financial transactions in question were anything other than
legal and fully appropriate.”  
 The brothers began setting up the offshore network in 1992,
establishing 17 trusts that bore names of personal significance,
such as one called Lake Providence, their birthplace, according
to the SEC complaint. In the following years, they transferred
millions of stock options and warrants they received for work as
directors. They also added to the stockpile through other
transactions, such as private offerings, the agency said.  
 Insider Trading  
 They kept control of the trusts, and they were aware that
if later sales were publicly disclosed, it could have an impact
on the stocks’ values, the regulator said.  
 The brothers also used the offshore network for illegal
insider trading, reaping a $31.7 million profit, the SEC said.
In October 1999, they bought shares of Sterling Software Inc.
after learning that its chairman had decided to sell the firm.
Sterling, which developed software to manage corporate computer
systems, was sold to  Computer Associates International Inc. , now
known as  CA Inc .  
 Other publicly traded companies whose securities were
involved in the Wylys’ alleged misconduct include Michaels
Stores Inc., Sterling Commerce Inc. and a predecessor of
Scottish Re Group Ltd., according to the SEC’s complaint.  
 Forbes magazine estimated in March that Samuel Wyly, 75,
has a $1 billion fortune. He and Charles Wyly, 76, live in
Dallas and are Republican donors. Since 1989, they and their
spouses have made more than $1.8 million in campaign donations,
according to the Washington-based  Center for Responsive
Politics .  
 Swift Boat Ads  
 Charles Wyly raised more than $100,000 for former President
Bush’s first campaign for the White House in 2000, making Wyly
part of an elite class of fundraisers whom the Bush campaign
called “Pioneers.”  
 The brothers also funded Republicans for Clean Air, which
aired advertisements for Bush and against rival Senator  John McCain  of Arizona during the primary election campaign in 2000.
In 2004, Samuel Wyly donated funds to the Swift Boat Veterans
for Truth, which ran advertisements opposing Democratic
presidential nominee  John Kerry , the Massachusetts senator.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Scheer  in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Jon Erlichman reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
