-- Kazakhstan Turns to Sukuk After Eurobond Offering Dropped: Islamic Finance
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-07-29T12:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/kazakhstan-turns-to-sukuk-after-eurobond-offering-dropped-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Kazakhstan, the former Soviet
republic that last sold international debt in 2000, is planning
a debut Islamic bond sale to broaden its investor base after
canceling a Eurobond offering last week.  
 The government will sell securities that comply with
Islam’s ban on interest payments in the second half of the year
and is pressing for legislative changes that would enable
companies beyond state holdings and Islamic banks to sell sukuk,
said Aibek Bekzhanov, head of Islamic instruments at the
 Regional Financial Center of Almaty , a government agency set up
to develop the country’s capital markets.  
 “Our goal is to orient this market toward domestic demand,
to help develop the market,” Bekzhanov said in a July 27
interview from Almaty. “There are also plans to raise funds
abroad via Islamic finance as a way to develop international
relations with Asia and the Middle East.”  
 The Finance Ministry said July 20 it canceled plans to sell
$750 million of global bonds this year, citing a $1 billion loan
agreement signed in May with a World Bank unit following
defaults last year by four local banks and the government’s
takeover of one, Almaty-based BTA Bank.  
 The financial crisis sent credit-default swaps linked to
Kazakhstan debt to a peak of 1,650 basis points in February
2009, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. The
contracts, which pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements, have since
dropped to 200, or 2 percentage points.  
 ‘Difficult’ Sell  
 “It might make sense for Kazakhstan to start building
their liability structure with a different investor base,”
 Richard Segal , director of emerging markets fixed-income in
London at Knight Libertas Ltd., said in an interview yesterday.
“If they were to target traditional European investors it might
be difficult because many traditional investors had quite a
difficult time over the past few years having invested in
corporate debt.”  
 Kazakhstan, where the U.S. State Department says 47 percent
of the 15.6 million population was Sunni Muslim at the start of
2008, last sold international bonds in April 2000. It issued
$350 million of 11.125 percent notes that matured in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The country has about
$37 billion of bonds and loans outstanding, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sales of Islamic bonds will see “sustained” growth in the
second half of the year, led by Asia and first-time issuers,
Standard & Poor’s said in a statement yesterday.  
 Global sales of Islamic bonds, or sukuk, fell 29 percent to
$6.7 billion so far this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Issuance totaled $20.2 billion last year, up from
$14.1 billion in 2008 and reached a record $31 billion in 2007.  
 Al-Amanah Islamic  
 The debt is typically backed by assets or cash flow because
Islamic law bars payment of interest. Investors earn any profit
from the assets in place of interest.  
 The Philippines’ state-owned Al-Amanah Islamic Bank is
seeking to sell the nation’s first Islamic bonds, the lender’s
President  Armando Samia  said July 26. The state-run Islamic Bank
of Thailand plans to sell sukuk to expand financial services for
minority Muslims, while Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. is
raising $100 million in its first sale in Malaysia as it
develops a Shariah-compliant business.  
 The spread between the average yield for emerging market
sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed 63 basis
points, or 0.63 percentage point, to 404 basis points so far
this year, according to  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index .
It widened three basis points yesterday.  
 Market Rally  
 Shariah-compliant bonds returned 8 percent this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while
debt in developing markets gained 9.5 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 fell one basis point to 3.04 percent today. It has dropped
48 basis points this month, according to RBS prices.  
 Kazakhstan’s $102 billion gross domestic product will
expand 4 percent this year, Finance Minister Bolat Zhamishev
said June 22, according to the Financial Center’s website, from
1.2 percent last year. The country’s debt is rated Baa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service, its second-lowest investment grade,
and one step lower at BBB- by S&P.  
 The government will apply guidelines for its new bonds from
the international standard-setting  Islamic Financial Services
Board , said Bekzhanov. The Kuala Lumpur-based authority includes
central banks from Saudi Arabia and Qatar as members. Global
standards are still developing in the Islamic finance industry,
whose assets may almost triple to $2.8 trillion by 2015,
according to the IFSB.  
 Middle East  
 The sukuk’s structure will be important for Middle Eastern
investors, who have a stricter interpretation of Islamic law,
 Scott Lim , chief executive officer of Kuala Lumpur-based MIDF
Amanah Asset Management Bhd., which manages the equivalent of
$670 million including Shariah-compliant funds, said yesterday.  
 “Demand for this product comes from Middle East
investors,” said Lim. “If they are targeting the Middle East,
they should structure the product accordingly.”  
 The government approved setting up Islamic investment funds
and banks last year, attracting lenders such as Al Hilal Bank,
owned by the Abu Dhabi government, to offer Shariah-compliant
products in the country.  
 In addition to the Ministry of Finance, Development Bank of
Kazakhstan may issue Islamic bonds, Bekzhanov said. Legislative
changes are needed to expand the list of potential issuers, he
said.  
 “There is clearly interest from companies to sell sukuk,
but one of the major constraints is legislative limitations,”
he said. “We are working on widening the list of companies that
can issue those and hope that this market will be developing
actively.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net .
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kazakhstan's finance minister Bolat Zhamishev. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
