-- Kellogg Lowers 2010 Profit Forecast on Cereal Recall
-- Matthew Boyle
-- 2010-07-29T20:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/kellogg-lowers-profit-forecast-after-recalling-froot-loops-apple-jacks.html

          
          
             Kellogg Co. , the largest U.S. maker
of breakfast cereal, reduced its profit forecast for the year
after recalling cereals such as Froot Loops and Apple Jacks last
month.  
 The shares fell the most since November 2008 after Kellogg
said today that full-year per-share profit will climb as much as
10 percent, compared with a previous top range of 13 percent.
The cereal recall probably will lower earnings by 12 cents this
year.  
 Kellogg, led by Chief Executive Officer  David Mackay ,
recalled 28 million boxes of cereal last month. The four
recalled brands represent about 16 percent of Kellogg’s U.S.
cereal sales, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst
 Alexia Howard . Kellogg also faces escalating competition from
 Ralcorp Holdings Inc. , which has cut prices on its Post cereal,
and  General Mills Inc.   
 “The size of recall is not all that surprising - more
disappointing is the underlying weakness in business trends that
led to the miss,” said  Walter Todd , co-chief investment officer
at Greenwood Capital in Greenwood, South Carolina, which has
$825 million under management including Kellogg  shares . “I
don’t think management has done a great job of managing
expectations. Investors like me don’t like surprises.”  
 Battle Creek, Michigan-based Kellogg’s  results  have trailed
analysts’ projections in two of the past three quarters, after
beating them for seven consecutive periods. Kellogg dropped
$3.54, or 6.9 percent, to $47.98 by 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The stock has declined 9.8 percent
this year.  
 Trailing Estimates  
 Kellogg’s net income fell 15 percent to $302 million, or 79
cents a share, in the quarter ended July 3, the company said.
Analysts anticipated 94 cents, the average of  projections 
compiled by Bloomberg. A year earlier, profit was $354 million,
or 92 cents.  
 Total  revenue  declined 5.2 percent to $3.06 billion. That
compared with $3.29 billion average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 North American  sales  at Kellogg, the maker of Pop-Tarts and
Keebler Club crackers, fell about 5 percent to $2.06 billion
last quarter. That included a 13 percent drop in cereal sales
and a 9 percent decline in frozen foods, where  Eggo  sales
slumped because of a supply disruption. North America accounts
for about two-thirds of Kellogg’s business.  
 The second half of the year probably will show improvement
as Kellogg reinvests in its business and trends improve, Mackay,
54, said in a telephone interview. The CEO has boosted marketing
spending and invested in emerging markets to attract customers.
Advertising spending rose 4 percent  last quarter , according to
Chief Financial Officer  Ron Dissinger .  
 New Cereals  
 “There is reason to be optimistic that the soft pricing
environment in cereal will normalize in the next quarter,”  Matt Arnold , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis, said in a
telephone interview. “A lot is riding on their innovation. If
they lost their touch there, that would be a significant risk to
their market share.” He recommends buying the shares.  
 Mackay declined to share details of Kellogg’s 2011 lineup
of new cereals and snacks, which the company will reveal to
retailers in September. Kellogg will launch more products in the
first half of 2011 than it did this year, he said. According to
Bernstein’s Howard, Kellogg’s percentage of sales from new
products declined to 12 percent in 2009 from 15 percent in 2008.  
 General Mills chief operating officer  Ian Friendly  told
investors earlier this month that Chocolate Cheerios, which
debuted in January, may be the company’s biggest product launch
in a decade.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kellogg Lowers 2010 Profit Forecast on Cereal Recall  
                       
                         
                           Daniel Acker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Kellogg’s net income fell 15 percent to $302 million, or 79 cents a share, in the quarter ended July 3, the company said. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Kellogg’s net income fell 15 percent to $302 million, or 79 cents a share, in the quarter ended July 3, the company said. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
