-- Kindle Losing Profit Battle, May Win the War: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-07-29T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/kindle-losing-profit-battle-may-win-the-war-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             The Kindle is dead. Long live
Kindle.  
 OK, maybe the Kindle isn’t actually dead. After all,
 Amazon.com Inc.  announced two new models of its e-reader this
week after selling boatloads of the previous version: Kindle
sales accelerated in every month of the second quarter, the
company said July 19.  
 The problem is what it said three days later, on July 22:
Profit in the period missed analysts’ expectations, and
operating income in the third quarter will also be below
projections. That’s in part because of the price cuts that have
slashed the cost of its flagship model by 45 percent, to $189,
in little more than a year.  
 A big reason is  Apple Inc. ’s success in selling iPads:
almost 3.3 million since its April debut, the company said in
June. The iPad, with its vivid color screen and multimedia
capabilities, provides a richer reading experience and also runs
thousands of applications, plays movies and music, and is far
better at surfing the Web and handling e-mail.  
 The Kindle, by contrast, has a grayscale screen and is
essentially good only for downloading and reading books. While
it’s much lighter and easier to use in direct sunlight, its
biggest head-to-head advantage over the iPad is price: The iPad
costs from $499 to $829. And if price is your major weapon,
profit margins are going to suffer.  
 Poised to Reign  
 Still, there’s more to the Kindle than just the hardware.
There’s also Kindle software and Amazon’s e-bookstore. Whatever
happens to profits on Kindle the device, Kindle the service is
positioned to reign supreme in the realm of e-reading for a long
time to come.  
 Unlike Apple, which has tied its iBookstore service to its
iPad, iPhone and iPod touch hardware, Amazon has pursued a
Kindle-everywhere strategy. In addition to its own gadget,
Amazon has made Kindle reading software and e-books available on
Apple’s mobile devices as well as on Mac and  Microsoft  Windows
computers,  Research In Motion  Ltd.’s BlackBerrys, and most
recently smartphones running  Google Inc. ’s Android operating
system.  
 Further, the software syncs across all platforms, meaning a
reader can set down a Kindle e-book on an iPad and resume
reading on, say,  Motorola Inc. ’s Droid X right where he or she
left off. Books purchased from Apple, meanwhile, sync only on
Apple devices.  
 Publishers’ Loathing  
 Amazon’s low-price strategy extends to e-books themselves.
Many publishers regard the company with almost as much
resentment as music companies have for Apple. They viewed the
$9.99 price that Amazon slapped on most e-books to jumpstart the
market to be too low, and welcomed Apple’s entry and different
business model as a way to push up e-book prices.  
 The number of current bestsellers priced between $10 and
$12.99  did rise to 30  in July from 17 in May, according to the
Kindle Nation Daily blog. And while there’s no guarantee that
higher prices will stick -- even Amazon Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Bezos , in a recent Fortune magazine interview, expressed
skepticism -- any increase would presumably help Amazon’s
margins along with everyone else’s.  
 On the hardware front, the forecast is for more turmoil.
Amazon’s new Kindle design is thinner, lighter, with a better
display and longer battery life than the one it’s replacing. The
$189 model adds the ability to connect over Wi-Fi as well as 3G
data networks; a new $139 model will have Wi-Fi only.  
 Non-Apple Competitors  
 Now let’s see how the Kindle’s non-Apple competitors
respond.  Barnes & Noble Inc. , which ignited the latest round of
price-cutting when it slashed the price of its 3G-and Wi-Fi-
enabled Nook to $199, recently introduced a model that works
only over Wi-Fi for $149.  Borders Group Inc.  is selling an e-
reader called the Kobo, which uses a USB cable or Bluetooth
connection to download content, for $149 with a $20 gift card.
It seems that a $99 price point for grayscale e-readers is
within view.  
 All this suggests further price pressure on the Kindle
hardware business. But things may be considerably brighter for
Kindle the service.  
 While both Amazon and Apple are stingy with information,
Amazon says it sold 43 percent more electronic books than
hardcovers in the last quarter; overall, it sold triple the
number of Kindle books in 2010’s first half than it did the year
before.  BusinessInsider.com  estimates Amazon has sold 22 million
Kindle books so far this year; at this rate, Kindle books might
surpass Amazon’s paperback sales within a year.  
 There’s no telling how many of those are being read on
Apple devices. But with Amazon’s vastly greater selection --
more than 600,000 non-public-domain titles, versus “tens of
thousands” in the Apple iBookstore -- it’s possible that Amazon
may become the top seller of books on Apple’s devices as well as
its own.  
 While there were other e-readers before the Kindle, Amazon
deserves credit for putting together all the pieces -- easy-to-
use hardware, wireless access, a huge selection of attractively
priced books -- and igniting the industry. If there are profits
to be made in selling e-books, Amazon is best-positioned to make
them.  
 ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in San Francisco at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Rich Jaroslovsky talks about the outlook for the electronic-reader market including Amazon.com's Kindle and Apple Inc.'s iPad.
     Jaroslovsky speaks with Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
