-- Korean Won Slips as Global Economic Recovery Sputters; Intervention a Risk
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-29T07:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/korean-won-slips-as-global-economic-recovery-sputters-intervention-a-risk.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won fell for a second
day as signs a global economic recovery is losing steam damp the
outlook for exports and fan concern the central bank will
intervene to prevent appreciation. Government bonds gained.  
 The U.S. yesterday reported a drop in durable goods orders
for June and the Federal Reserve said growth slowed in some
areas of the world’s biggest economy. Korean manufacturers’
 confidence  fell from near a seven-year high on concern domestic
demand will weaken, the central bank said today.  
 “Concern the recovery is slowing is bringing risk aversion
back,” said  Seo Jeong Hun , chief economist at Korea Exchange
Bank in Seoul. “The market also feared the possibility of
intervention. But won losses were limited after exporters put in
bids to repatriate income.”  
 The won slid 0.2 percent to 1,186.5 per dollar as of the 3
p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency reached a five-week high of 1,181.33 on July 27
before retreating yesterday as traders said the Bank of Korea
bought dollars to counter appreciation.  
 The central bank’s index of manufacturing sentiment was at
102 for August, down from 104 for July. It reached 107 for May,
the highest level since the fourth quarter of 2002. The Bank of
Korea yesterday reported a June current-account  surplus  of $5.04
billion, the most in a year.  
 ‘Healthy Inflows’  
 Companies including Samsung Electronics Co. and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. this month reported record second-quarter
earnings as a weaker won boosted the local-currency value of
their overseas sales. Vice Finance Minister  Yim Jong Yong  said
last month policy makers would use “smoothing-operation”
measures to stabilize the won, which has strengthened 2.8
percent this month, Asia’s best performance.  
 Government bonds advanced for a third day, with the yield
on the 3.75 percent note due in June 2013 dropping six basis
points to 3.80 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 “Stronger economic fundamentals are attracting more
foreigners to bonds,” said  Lee Jae Hyung , a fixed-income
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Co Ltd. in Seoul. “The bonds
are giving investors good margins compared to how strong
economic data have been. We’re also seeing healthy inflows into
the country.”  
 The economy  grew  1.5 percent in the second quarter from the
previous three months, faster than the 1.3 percent growth
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists, data this week
showed.  Consumer confidence  held at a five-month high in July,
and  exports  rose for an eighth month in June, government data
showed this month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        