-- Narula's Metacapital Sees Risk in Mortgage Bonds After 28% Gain in Fund
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-29T20:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/narula-s-hedge-fund-sees-risk-in-mortgage-bonds-after-recording-28-gain.html

          
          
             Metacapital Management LP, the
hedge-fund firm run by former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
mortgage-bond trader  Deepak Narula , returned 28 percent in the
first half of this year, boosted by government-backed debt that
benefits from limited homeowner  refinancing .  
 Now the New York-based firm is seeking to protect against
one of the “biggest” risks in the $5.2 trillion market for
agency mortgage bonds, Narula wrote in a July 22 letter to
investors. That’s the potential for the U.S. to boost
refinancing amid record-low  loan rates  by changing the rules at
taxpayer-supported Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, he wrote.  
 Homeowners with $2 trillion of debt would save $40 billion
to $50 billion annually with a “one-time amnesty,” Narula, 47,
said in the letter. The “only losers,” if all Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac loans could be refinanced, “are the security
holders of mortgages that are paying above market interest
rates,” he wrote.  
 Certain mortgage bonds tumbled early today by the most
relative to Treasuries since March on concern that refinancing
trends may change. Fannie Mae-guaranteed 6.5 percent mortgage
securities, containing loans with average rates of about 7
percent, were underperforming Treasuries by 0.09 cent on the
dollar as of 3 p.m. in New York, paring an earlier relative drop
of 0.24 cent, after climbing to a record 109.94 cents two days
ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Slam Dunk’  
 Morgan Stanley economist  David Greenlaw  said this week that
changing refinancing rules would be “slam dunk stimulus,”
estimating the consumer savings at $46 billion in a July 27
report.  
 Other analysts called the move unlikely. Credit Suisse
Group analysts led by  Mahesh Swaminathan  said in a report today
that “forget a ‘slam dunk,’ a government induced refinancing
spike is not even a ‘layup’” because of “logistical
challenges” and because creating hundreds of billions of
dollars of new bonds trading close to par would raise yields.  
 It “would result in more indigestion than the government
can stand,” because the new debt would also boost Treasury
yields and such refinancing would cost Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac about $30 billion on their own securities holdings,
Citigroup analysts led by  Brett Rose  said today in a report.  
 ‘Double Dip’  
 Yields on  current-coupon  mortgage bonds may end up being
“a lot lower” than some investors expect if changes in
refinancing rules came amid a “double dip” in the economy that
created demand for debt with limited credit risk, though rates
would still rise, Nomura Securities International strategists
led by  Ohmsatya Ravi  wrote today in a note to clients. The
current-coupon bonds most affect loan rates because they trade
closest to par.  
 The strategists estimated the odds of refinancing changes
being enacted at 10 percent if the U.S. doesn’t fall back into a
recession and 30 percent if it does. Most of the losses at
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in their portfolios “should be
offset by the improved credit  performance  of the mortgages they
guarantee,” they said.  
 Narula’s Mortgage Opportunities Master fund, begun after he
decided to unwind his first fund during the start of the
financial crisis that later bankrupted his former firm, gained
14 percent last quarter, Metacapital said. The firm added to its
2009 gain of 125 percent while hedge funds suffered their worst
second quarter since 2000.  
 Narula confirmed his letter, which said the fund began in
2008, and declined to comment further. The fund’s assets rose
more than $100 million during the period to $150 million, the
letter said.  
 Missed Target  
 In February 2009, the U.S. announced an initiative called
the  Home Affordable Refinance Program , which created 291,600
loans through March, compared with a target of 4 million to 5
million, according to  data  from the Federal Housing Finance
Agency.  
 The program is meant to aid consumers, and cut Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac’s losses, by allowing more refinancing among
borrowers whose loans approach or exceed their properties’
values and who haven’t missed payments, if the companies already
own or guarantee their debt.  
 Narula, who joined Lehman Brothers as a mortgage-bond
analyst in 1989 and eventually headed its strategy group, moved
into trading in 1995, according to information posted on a
conference  website . From 1997 to 2000, he ran two of the
mortgage-bond trading desks at the company, which collapsed in
2008. He founded Metacapital in 2001.  
 Inverse IOs  
 In the first half of this year, hedge funds lost 1.2
percent, declining 2.8 percent in the three months through June,
according to Hedge Fund Research’s  HFRX Global Hedge Fund Index .
Investments in so-called inverse interest-only slices of
collateralized mortgage obligations, known as inverse IOs, and
trading in other IOs helped drive Metacapital’s gains last
quarter, according to its letter.  
 Inverse IOs are a type of CMO tranche offering payments
that move in the opposite direction of short-term benchmark
rates for as long as the underlying loan balances remain
outstanding, meaning bond prepayments can hurt holders.  
 Investors this year lost an average 24 percent on Trust
IOs, another type of interest-only note, amid Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac’s purchases of delinquent debt from their bonds and
declines in rates that investors can hedge against, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Metacapital’s letter
said that it traded in and out of Trust IOs, buying during
“volatility and risk aversion” in May and then paring
positions.  
 HARP Targets  
 The Home Affordable Refinance Program was first geared
toward borrowers who owed up to 5 percent more than their homes’
worth, and later 25 percent. While refinancing  applications  have
climbed this year, they remain 45 percent below a January 2009
peak even as 30-year loan rates hover at the lowest on record,
according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.  
 Lenders are wary of refinancing mortgages under HARP
because they must make their usual representations to Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac about the new debt’s quality, JPMorgan Chase &
Co. analysts led by  Matt Jozoff  wrote in a July 16 report. Those
types of promises are forcing originators to repurchase a
soaring amount of defaulted loans made during the boom as faulty
appraisals, inflated borrower incomes or missing documentation
are discovered.  
 Some borrowers also need home-equity lenders to agree to
allow the loans to be replaced, and many homeowners may not
qualify because their debt-to-income ratios are too high, the
analysts said. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac also continue to
charge their typical extra fees for borrowers with worse credit.  
 Corinne Russell , a spokeswoman for the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, their regulator, and  Janis Smith , a spokeswoman
for Washington-based Fannie Mae, declined to comment.  
 Refi Risk  
 Freddie Mac, based in McLean, Virginia, has refinanced $448
billion in loans since the start of 2009, creating $5.1 billion
in annual cost savings for 2.1 million families, including $57
billion under HARP,  Brad German , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  
 The possibility of “a ‘heroic’ attempt to get refis
going” is a risk that investors need to consider amid record-
high prices for certain mortgage bonds, the JPMorgan analysts
said. “At this point, with housing having bottomed locally, we
believe the probability of an extreme policy move is low.”  
 Metacapital is girding for new Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
rules by adding lower-coupon mortgage bonds as hedges and
focusing on IOs created out of Ginnie Mae securities, whose
underlying Federal Housing Administration loans already allow
for “streamlined” refinancing, as well as IOs that are part of
non-agency securitizations, according to its letter.  
 Faster-than-anticipated prepayments on mortgage bonds
trading for more than face value punish investors by returning
their cash more quickly at par, rather than offering higher
coupon payments for a greater period.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Rick Sharga, senior vice president for marketing at RealtyTrac Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about U.S. foreclosure filings.
     Foreclosures climbed in three-quarters of U.S. metropolitan areas in the first half as high unemployment left many homeowners unable to pay their mortgages, according to the Irvine, California-based mortgage-data company. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
