-- New York Lawmakers Put Off Budget Action Again With Borrowing Cost Rising
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-07-29T18:47:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/new-york-s-lawmakers-delay-budget-action-again-as-borrowing-costs-increase.html

          
          
             New York’s  Legislature adjourned
without taking action for a second consecutive day after
Governor  David Paterson  summoned them into session to break a
17-week budget impasse.  
 Lawmakers said they’ll return Aug. 3 to resume negotiations
that are deadlocked over allowing state universities to set
their own tuition, enter into partnerships and lease facilities
to private companies.  
 New York’s borrowing cost has risen relative to AAA rated
municipal debt since April 1, the start of the state’s fiscal
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The spread, or
 risk premium , between its general-obligation bonds maturing in
10 years and comparable top-rated debt has widened by 0.14
percentage point. New York’s 10-year bonds yield 3.36 percent,
or 0.58 percentage point more than AAA securities.  
 “We’ve been avoiding the state’s general obligation and
state appropriation debt because of all this uncertainty,” said
 Howard Cure , director of municipal research at Evercore Wealth
Management LLC, with more than $1.1 billion in fixed income
investments, including $254 million in New York state debt.
“The politics are a bit scary to us.”  
 New York, the nation’s third-most populous state, has
operated under emergency spending measures since April 1, after
lawmakers and the governor failed to agree on how to close the
deficit.  
 Although the Senate passed a $136 billion spending plan, it
adjourned before the July 4 holiday without signing off on a way
to pay for it. Without a revenue bill, “the state will run out
of money in about a month-and-a-half,” Paterson warned July 8.  
 Tuition Bill  
 The college tuition bill has support from some senators who
represent areas in which universities are situated. It’s drawn
opposition from other senators and in the Assembly, where
Speaker  Sheldon Silver , a Manhattan Democrat, has said the bill
could make the schools too expensive for poor and minority
students to attend.  
 “We have a stand-off,” said Senator  Ruth Hassell- Thompson,  a Democrat from the Bronx and Westchester who opposes
the measure, as she emerged from a meeting between Paterson and
several legislative leaders. “How we’re going to resolve that
is yet to be determined.”  
 The failure to produce a budget may have political
consequences in a year when all 212 seats of the Legislature are
up for election Nov. 2. A Quinnipiac University  poll  released
yesterday found 53 percent of voters say their state senator
should go, versus 35 percent who support their lawmaker. Fourty-
nine percent to 33 percent want their state assembly member
ousted. In the Senate, where Democrats hold a 32-29 majority,
two seats would alter the balance of power.  
 Third-Highest  
 Debt for both the city and state is rated Aa2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and AA by Standard & Poor’s, each the third-
highest. New York and New York City were the second-and third-
largest issuers of municipal bonds in 2009, respectively, after
California.  
 While expressing concerns about the state’s ability to
solve its fiscal problems, Cure said he didn’t see reduced
demand for the state’s debt generally in the market.  
 ‘There has been very little new issuance of New York paper
recently, which increases demand,’’ he said. “Once the budget
is completed, issuance by the state should increase.”  
 The sessions today in the Senate and the Assembly each took
less than 15 minutes. The sessions cost the state about $35,000
in $171-a-day expenses for the more than 200 lawmakers who
attended, plus travel costs for those arriving from more than 35
miles away, said Robert Whalen, a spokesman for state
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli .  
 ----With assistance from Alan Wechsler in Albany and Martin Z.
Braun in New York. Editors: Pete Young, Jerry Hart  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in Albany, New York, at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        