-- NII Expects to Obtain Mexico Airwaves Even After Rivals Criticize Auction
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-07-29T20:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/nii-expects-to-obtain-mexico-airwaves-even-after-rivals-criticize-auction.html

          
          
             NII Holdings Inc.  said it expects to
receive mobile-phone airwaves in Mexico even after competitors
including America Movil SAB criticized the government’s handling
of an auction of wireless spectrum.  
 NII, which bid jointly with  Grupo Televisa SA  in Mexico’s
auction, is waiting for the telecommunications regulator to sign
off on its bid for 30 megahertz of airwaves that cover the
nation. NII and Televisa were able to spend a fraction of the
money America Movil had to bid in the auction because of rules
that limited each company’s total spectrum holdings.  
 NII, which uses the Nextel brand to sell wireless service
in Latin America, needs the airwaves to get a planned $1.44
billion  investment  in its Mexican unit from Televisa, the
world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster. The companies aim
to share network resources and marketing expenses to promote
NII’s wireless service.  
 “We expected the rules that were set for that auction
would be adhered to and we would receive our spectrum,” Chief
Executive Officer  Steven Dussek  said today on a conference call.
“In terms of the competitors making noise about that, yeah,
obviously they are.”  
 NII, based in Reston, Virginia,  fell  71 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $37.70 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. It has gained 12 percent this year.  
 Competitor Criticism  
 NII plans to begin building a network capable of high-speed
Internet downloads with the airwaves and could begin offering
the service in some of Mexico’s biggest cities as soon as a year
after it gets the airwaves, said  Tim Perrott , the company’s vice
president of investor relations.  
 The Federal Telecommunications Commission, the Mexican
agency responsible for the auction, should require NII and
Televisa to pay more for the airwaves or should void the auction
results,  Alejandro Cantu , general counsel for America Movil,
said in an interview. If the agency awards the spectrum at the
price NII and Televisa bid, America Movil may challenge the
ruling in court, he said.  
 “We welcome competition. This is not a matter of
competition,” Cantu said today by telephone. “This is a matter
of fairness.”  
 Grupo Iusacell SA , the third-biggest Mexican wireless
carrier after America Movil and Telefonica SA, has challenged
the auction rules in court. NII is the smallest of Mexico’s four
mobile-phone carriers.  
 Only Bidders  
 NII and Televisa bid 180 million pesos ($14.2 million) for
30 megahertz of nationwide spectrum, the same amount of airwaves
America Movil and  Telefonica  spent a combined 5.1 billion pesos
to acquire. NII and Televisa were the only qualified bidders for
the nationwide block, allowing them to win it with the minimum
required bid.  
 The difference in prices “doesn’t necessarily frighten
me,” Federal Telecommunications Commission President  Mony de Swaan  said in an interview last week. Including annual payments
required by Congress, NII and Televisa will pay 18.3 billion
pesos over 20 years for the airwaves it’s acquiring. America
Movil and Telefonica will pay a total of 23.2 billion pesos in
the same two-decade span.  
 De Swaan said on July 22 he expected the telecommunications
agency to rule on the auction results within three weeks.  
 NII today reported second-quarter net income of $75.5
million, or 44 cents a share, down from $134.3 million, or 79
cents, a year earlier. The company, which also operates in
Brazil, Argentina and Peru, said it expects to add as many as
1.53 million subscribers this year, up from a February forecast
of up to 1.38 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        