-- Nintendo Posts First-Quarter Net Loss of $288.5 Million on Lower DS Sales
-- Pavel Alpeyev
-- 2010-07-29T09:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/nintendo-posts-first-quarter-net-loss-of-288-5-million-on-lower-ds-sales.html

          
          
             Nintendo Co. , the world’s largest
maker of video-game consoles, posted its first quarterly loss in
more than two years as the stronger yen cut the value of
overseas earnings and demand for DS handheld players fell.  
 The  net loss  was 25.2 billion yen ($289 million) in the
three months ended June, compared with a 42.3 billion yen profit
a year earlier, the Kyoto-based company said today. The game
maker said it booked a foreign currency-related one-time loss of
70.5 billion yen.  
 Nintendo , which saw DS sales plunge 33 percent in the U.S.
last month, said a lack of new game titles hurt  revenue  as it
kept its  outlook  for annual profit to drop to the lowest in four
years. President  Satoru Iwata  plans to introduce a 3-D model of
the DS and a heart-rate-tracking “Vitality Sensor” accessory
for the Wii console this fiscal year to revive  earnings growth .  
 “The foreign-currency fluctuation exposure and sluggish
consumer demand in the U.S. add up to a rather bleak outlook for
the company,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a Tokyo-based senior
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $56 billion.  
 Nintendo today said the euro weakened to 107.81 yen in the
quarter, from 124.92 yen as of March 31, while the dollar fell
to 88.48 yen from 93.04 yen. A stronger Japanese currency
reduces the value of Nintendo’s overseas sales. The company
today maintained its full-year exchange-rate estimate at 120 yen
for the euro and 95 yen for the dollar.  
 Stock Underperforms  
 Shares of Nintendo fell 1.5 percent to close at 24,620 yen
in Osaka trading before the announcement. The  stock  has dropped
21 percent this fiscal year, compared with a 13 percent decline
by the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  
 Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, slumped 42 percent to 23.3 billion yen
as revenue dropped 26 percent to 188.6 billion yen in the
quarter, the company said. That’s worse than the 25.8 billion
yen income average of four analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The  analysts  expected 194.2 billion yen in revenue.  
 First-quarter sales of DS hardware dropped 47 percent to
3.15 million players, while those of software dropped 23 percent
to 22.4 million units, the company said.  Nintendo  released 168
titles for the handheld player in the period, compared with 278
games a year earlier.  
 3-D Handheld Player  
 Nintendo  in June said the 3DS handheld, going on sale this
fiscal year, will allow users to see 3-D images without the need
for special glasses. The product has three cameras and a motion
sensor to create the 3-D effect.  
 The company will announce the price, shipment targets and
release date for the device on Sept. 29, spokesman  Yasuhiro Minagawa  said by phone today.  
 “Many investors are in a tug-of-war between the outlook
for a weak first half and expectations for the new DS model in
the second half,”  Mitsushige Akino , who counts Nintendo shares
among the $450 million he oversees at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. in Tokyo, said before the earnings release.  
 Sales of the Wii rose 36 percent to 3.04 million consoles
in the April-June quarter, bolstered by the release of “Super
Mario Galaxy 2,” which sold more than 4 million copies in the
period,  Nintendo  said. Wii software sales fell 9.3 percent to
28.2 million units, it said.  
 Increased Competition  
 Nintendo faces more competition than when it began sales of
the Wii in 2006 and was the only major producer of motion-
sensing personal-gaming machines.  Sony Corp.  and  Microsoft Corp. 
plan to introduce their own motion-sensing accessories for their
video-game consoles, while  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone and iPad devices
are increasingly being used for gaming.  
 Sony , which has said it will update its software to allow
PlayStation 3 machines to run games in 3-D, plans to start
selling game titles as well as Bravia televisions capable of
showing the format in June. PS3 users will have to wear special
glasses to play 3-D games, the company said.  
 The Tokyo-based company, whose PlayStation 2 player
dominated the previous generation of game consoles, is also
introducing its “Move” motion-sensing controller for the PS3
to appeal to casual users and narrow Nintendo’s lead.  
 The black controller, resembling Wii’s wand with a colored
ball at the top, will go on sale in the U.S. in September for
$49.99, or $79.98 with a companion product,  Sony  said in June.
More than 40 games for the new controller will be available for
the U.S. holiday season, the company said at the time.  
 Sales at Sony’s Networked Products and Services Group,
which handles  PlayStation  games, VAIO computers and Walkman
media players, jumped 32 percent in the quarter on demand for
the player and laptops, the company said today. It maintained
its target to sell 15 million PS3 consoles and about 196 million
games.  
 Microsoft plans to introduce its Kinect motion-sensing
controller with a free game in November for $149.99, the company
said in July. The Redmond, Washington-based company plans to
include the product in a $299.99 package featuring the new,
slimmer Xbox 360 console and the Kinect Adventures game, it said
at the time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Christian Takushi, a fund manager at Swisscanto Asset Management AG, talks about Sony Corp.'s first-quarter profit and the performance of Chief Executive Officer Howard Stringer.
     Takushi, speaking from Zurich, also discusses Nintendo Co.'s first quarterly loss in more than two years. He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
