-- Obama Defends His Schools Program Against Civil Rights, Union Criticisms
-- Moira Herbst
-- 2010-07-29T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/obama-defends-his-schools-program-against-civil-rights-union-criticisms.html

          
          
             Criticisms of the federal Race to the
Top education initiative partly reflect “a general resistance to
change” and “a comfort with the status quo,” said President
Barack Obama in prepared remarks for a speech today at the
National Urban League in Washington.  
 Obama’s speech comes as plans to overhaul U.S. public
education face opposition from his Democratic base,
Congressional Republicans and state legislatures that could
block implementation. The administration has succeeded in
getting at least 29 states and the District of Columbia to sign
on to common academic standards that would for the first time
set shared performance goals for math and reading. Through the
$4.35 billion Race to the Top competition, Education Secretary
 Arne Duncan  has prodded states to lift caps on charter schools
and link student achievement to teacher pay.  
 While Obama and Duncan are proposing changes designed to
garner bipartisan support, political divisions are endangering
the chance they will actually be carried out, said Jeffrey Henig,
a professor at Teachers’ College at Columbia University.  
 “Politically the agenda is working in the near-term, but
there are risks,” Henig said.  
 Republicans in Massachusetts, Texas and Alaska are
attacking the common standards, calling them a federal takeover
of local school-district policy. A proposed school-turnaround
program, which allows districts to fire teachers and replace
principals in poorly performing schools, is under attack from
teachers’ unions and community groups. Obama has also failed to
get enough Congressional support for a $10 billion bill aimed at
saving tens of thousands of teacher jobs from state and local
budget cuts.  
 Union Opposition  
 One trouble spot for the Obama administration is dissent
from Democratic constituencies.  Randi Weingarten , president of
the  American Federation of Teachers  criticized school turnaround
proposals as part of a simplistic, “blame the teacher”
approach in a July 8 speech at the union’s convention in Seattle.  
 Obama’s prepared remarks said the administration wants to
give teachers the resources they need to perform their jobs well.  
 “Our goal isn’t to fire or admonish teachers,” the remarks
said. “Our goal is accountability.”  
 Instead of a culture idolizing sports stars or celebrities,
“I want us to build a culture where we idolize the people who
shape our children’s future,” the remarks said.  
 Civil rights leaders are also calling Obama-Duncan programs
into question. On July 26, a coalition of groups including the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and
the National Urban League released a report criticizing Race to
the Top and other “market-based” programs for unequally
distributing government funding and support.  
 ‘Competitive Incentives’  
 “By emphasizing competitive incentives in this economic
climate, the majority of low-income and minority students will
be left behind and, as a result, the United States will be left
behind as a global leader,” according to the report.  
 The Obama administration arranged for Obama’s speech in
response to these criticisms, said  Jack Jennings , president of
the  Center on Education Policy , a Washington-based nonpartisan,
nonprofit organization.  
 “When leaders like Jesse Jackson raise questions about the
direction of education policy, it’s like the Chamber of Commerce
telling  George Bush  we were going the wrong direction on tax
policy,” Jennings said. “Obama has to assure them somehow that
he is not only concerned about a few kids, but about all kids.
He has a selling job to do.”  
 Bipartisan Commission  
 Secretary Duncan announced yesterday he would form a
bipartisan commission to study equity in public education and
promised to pursue federal policies that distribute resources
fairly.  
 “In so many ways, our reform agenda is all about equity,”
Duncan said in a speech at a conference in Washington.
“Competition isn’t about winners and losers. It’s about getting
better.”  
 Parts of Obama’s agenda have also faced objections from
Republicans. Alaska and Texas refused to adopt the common
standards for math and reading formulated by the National
Governors’ Association and endorsed by the Obama Administration.
Obama and Duncan have failed to muster Republican support for
the $10 billion “Keep Our Educators Working Act,” introduced
by Democratic Senator  Tom Harkin  of Iowa. The bill would provide
federal funding to save teachers’ jobs.  
 Political Will  
 It’s unclear whether the changes states promised on their
applications for Race to the Top will materialize, particularly
for states that ultimately do not win funding, said  Grover J. Whitehurst , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, a
nonprofit think tank based in Washington.  
 “Getting states to say they will do things and actually
getting them to do them are two different things,” Whitehurst
said. “The political will to carry out the promised reforms
will diminish over time.”  
 The fault lines of the battles over education policy could
emerge after the Race to the Top contest concludes.  
 “The money you can get if you play the game has really put
a damper on some of the voices of opposition,” said Henig of
Columbia University. “I don’t know how long that can last.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Moira Herbst  in New York at 
 mherbst3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        