-- Obama Gives His `View' on Auto Bailouts, Race, War
-- Roger Runningen
-- 2010-07-29T16:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/obama-says-auto-industry-s-hiring-tells-good-story-of-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said in an
interview broadcast today that the government will recover
taxpayer money spent to bail out the auto industry and that the
U.S. still hasn’t fully dealt with racial tensions.  
 The president, who appeared on the ABC program  “The
View,”  also complained that no one sends him “real juicy
stuff” on his BlackBerry because their messages might become
public.  
 The auto industry “tells a good story” of how the U.S.
has recovered from the worst recession since the 1930s, he said.
In exchange for U.S. bailout money, the industry has been
restructured, and “you now have all those auto companies
showing a profit.  
 “They’ve re-hired 55,000 workers,” he said. “We are
going to get all the money back that we invested.” The
president is scheduled to visit General Motors Co. and Chrysler
Group LLC auto plants in Michigan tomorrow.  
 Obama appeared on a program aimed largely at college-
educated women, a group Democrats are targeting in November’s
congressional elections. “The View” is the No. 2 daily talk
show, behind “The Oprah Show,” with 3.7 million viewers, and
is first in its time period with women aged 18-49, said Karl T.
Nilsson, an ABC spokesman, citing  Nielsen Media Research .  
 The program was taped yesterday in New York. He appeared on
“The View” twice before, in March 2008 as a presidential
candidate and once as a senator from Illinois. He is the first
sitting president to appear on a daytime talk show, according to
ABC.  
 Question on Race  
 Obama, the first black U.S. president, was asked whether
race is still a major issue in America.  
 “Of course there’s still tensions out there, there’s still
inequalities out there, there’s still discrimination out there,
but we’ve made progress,” he said.  
 He cited the episode with  Shirley Sherrod , the Agriculture
Department official fired by Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack 
after a clip from a speech showed her telling an anecdote
suggesting she acted with bias in dealing with a white farmer 24
years ago. She was re-offered a job when a review of her full
remarks showed the video was selectivity edited.  
 “A 24/7 media cycle that’s always looking for
controversy” doesn’t always “get to the facts first” and
generated “a phony controversy,” Obama said. “A lot of people
overreacted, including people in my administration.”  
 Economic Stimulus  
 Obama defended the $862 billion stimulus package, even as
he was reminded that his administration said unemployment
wouldn’t rise above 8 percent. The unemployment rate was 9.5
percent in June.  
 “It makes a difference, though, if your job was one of the
ones that was saved,” he said. He said the stimulus spending
averted thousands of teacher, police or firefighter layoffs.  
 “If we get our mojo back over the next several months,
then I’m absolutely confident that we are going to be doing
terrific,” Obama said.  
 On Afghanistan, co-host  Barbara Walters  asked the
president, “Why don’t we get out?”  
 Obama reminded Walters that he promised in the campaign to
wind down the war in Iraq and refocus a strategy in Afghanistan
which was “not working.”  
 Afghanistan is still “the epicenter of terrorism
targeting the U.S.,” he said. “We’ve got to finish the job
that we started.”  
 Lindsay Lohan  
 Not all the questions dealt with politics and policy. Obama
said he knew actress  Lindsay Lohan  was in jail and ducked a
question about actor  Mel Gibson .  
 The president, who refused pleas from the Secret Service
and CIA to give up his BlackBerry, said that now, 18 months into
office, “it’s no fun.”  
 The law on presidential records means that any message set
to him must be preserved and may be disclosed, “so nobody sends
me the real juicy stuff,” he said.  
 Obama said he wasn’t invited to the July 31 wedding of
 Chelsea Clinton  in Rhinebeck, New York, and didn’t mind, either,
because former President  Bill Clinton  and Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  “properly want to keep this as a thing for
Chelsea and her soon-to-be-husband.”  
 It would cause too much commotion, anyway, with guests
forced to pass through metal detectors and “all the gifts are
getting unwrapped” by the U.S. Secret Service, he said.  
 “It would be tough enough having one president at a
wedding; you don’t want two presidents at a wedding,” Obama
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Roger Runningen  in New York at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        