-- Obama Turns to China, Mideast to Bid to Get Iran Sanctions `Globalized'
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-07-29T22:06:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/obama-turns-to-china-mideast-to-bid-to-get-iran-sanctions-globalized-.html

          
          
             The Obama administration will urge
China and other governments in Asia, the Middle East and South
America to impose sanctions on Iran in a widening effort to
persuade the regime to abandon any pursuit of nuclear weapons.  
 Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury  Daniel Glaser 
told the House  Oversight and Government Reform Committee  in
Washington today that he and other U.S. officials will travel to
these regions to ensure sanctions against Iran are
“globalized.”  
 China will be a key focus, said  Robert Einhorn , a special
adviser at the State Department. He said he and Glaser will
visit Beijing to speak with officials there at the end of
August, and that the issue is being raised at the highest
levels.  
 “We need to speak with the Chinese,” Einhorn told the
committee. “We need for them to enforce” United Nations
sanctions “conscientiously” and stop coming to Iran’s aid when
companies from other countries end their business with the
regime, he said.  
 While European companies identified by the U.S. as
investing in Iran’s energy sector have responded, oil and gas
services suppliers in China, Russia, India and South Korea
haven’t commented,  Joseph Christoff , international affairs
director at the Government Accountability Office, told the
panel.  
 Skirting Sanctions  
 The United Arab Emirates must be targeted more aggressively
for its role as a transshipment point for supplies to Iran from
companies seeking to skirt sanctions, Christoff said.  
 The U.S. has ramped up sanctions on Iran and companies
doing business with the regime after diplomatic efforts last
year failed to halt the country’s uranium enrichment, a process
that can be used to produce fuel or make a nuclear bomb.  
 A new round of UN sanctions was followed earlier this month
by intensified U.S. penalties.  
 The sanctions pressure is critical to prevent an escalation
of the threat from Iran, Einhorn and several committee members
said.  
 “A nuclear-armed Iran would severely threaten the security
and stability of a part of the world crucial to our interests
and to the health of the global economy,” Einhorn told the
panel.  
 No Waivers  
 Congress should make sure the administration doesn’t waive
the U.S. sanctions as presidents have in the past to protect
alliances with countries where violating companies are based,
several lawmakers said.  
 “If we don’t do that, in my opinion, I think we are on the
precipice of a war which could threaten the economy of the
United States, not just the Middle East” because of the U.S.
dependence on oil and gas from the region, said Representative
 Dan Burton , an Indiana Republican.  
 Officials of  Repsol YPF SA  of Spain have met with the GAO
twice in past three months since the agency issued a list of 41
companies that have commercial activity in Iranian oil, gas or
petrochemicals, Christoff said.  
 Repsol provided a letter that it had submitted to Iran
saying it’s pulling out of a $10 billion liquefied natural gas
project in which it had a 25 percent stake, he told the panel.  
 ‘Pulling Out’  
 “They just met with us again on Monday and said that they
had informed their partner Shell that they were officially
pulling out after July 31,” he said, referring to  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc , Europe’s largest oil company. Christoff said Shell
has a 50 percent stake in a $10 billion project.  
 Shell is among companies that have said they’re still
considering whether to continue their investments, he said. New
sanctions adopted this month by the European Union probably will
accelerate Shell’s decision, he said.  
 European energy companies including Shell and Repsol have
postponed gas accords in Iran amid U.S. pressure over the
nuclear issue. Shell and Repsol discussed developing two blocks
of the South Pars field and building what would be Iran’s first
liquefied natural gas plant. Iran has the world’s second-largest
gas reserves after Russia.  
 Gasoline Deliveries  
 Three Russian state-controlled oil companies, including  OAO
Rosneft  and  OAO Gazprom Neft , may begin delivering gasoline to
Iran in a month, said the head of the Iran Commission of the
Moscow Chamber of Commerce & Industry.  
 Talks are being held on a “working level” and the first
delivery may take place in late August or September, Rajab
Safarov said in an interview in Moscow today.  
 Glaser, a deputy assistant secretary for terrorist
financing and financial crimes, and Einhorn, who advises on the
spread of nuclear weapons and arms control, also will visit
Seoul and Tokyo next week to discuss sanctions on Iran and North
Korea.  
 Einhorn praised the European Union for its decision this
week to impose its toughest sanctions yet, including a ban on
new investment in Iran’s oil and gas industries, restrictions on
export-credit guarantees and closer monitoring of banks that do
business with the country.  
 “It set some very high standards for sanctions,” Einhorn
said. Next week’s trip is intended “to see if Japan and South
Korea could come up to that mark.”  
 In China, the two will press officials to “enforce the
letter of” the latest UN Security Council resolution, he said.
They’ll also urge the Chinese to “take strong steps against”
entities that are assisting Iran’s missile programs in any way,
Einhorn told the committee.  
 “The Chinese will argue that they have important energy
security needs,” he said. “In our view, they are overachieving
in terms of their energy security needs. We think they have to
kind of rebalance their priorities.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington
at   vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     US President Barack Obama speaks during a convention in Washington. Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
