-- Lockheed's Delays on Interceptor Missile Hinder Mideast Defense, U.S. Says
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2010-07-29T12:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/lockheed-s-delays-on-interceptor-missile-hinder-mideast-defense-u-s-says.html

          
          
             Lockheed Martin Corp. , the world’s
largest defense contractor, is at least a year behind schedule
delivering the first 24 of the Pentagon’s newest interceptor
missile.  
 A safety switch intended to prevent accidental launches
failed testing and these interceptors and 24 more can’t be
assembled until it’s fixed, said  Rick Lehner , a Missile Defense
Agency spokesman. The switch is made by  Moog Inc ., a Lockheed
subcontractor.  
 The interceptors are the centerpiece of the new  regional
missile defense  that the Obama administration plans to deploy in
the Middle East against Iran’s medium- and long-range ballistic
missiles. Batteries of the land-based interceptors would be
linked by sensors and radar to the U.S. Navy’s existing sea-
based systems on Aegis-class destroyers and cruisers.  
 Without the missiles, the Army can’t deploy its first unit
trained on this system: an air defense artillery battery at Fort
Bliss, Texas. Other components of the system have been delivered
on time, allowing the battery to train, Lehner said. But without
the missiles, it’s not ready.  
 The delay comes as the U.S. is negotiating a  deal worth as
much as $6.9 billion  with the United Arab Emirates, a Persian
Gulf nation that is seeking to be the first international buyer
of the so-called  Terminal High Altitude Area Defense .  
 ‘Onus Is on Them’  
 Lockheed’s Dallas-based  Missiles and Fire Control  plant is
under contract to complete delivery of the first interceptors
before Sept. 30. The Defense Department now projects delivery by
around Sept. 30, 2011, Lehner said. The next lot of 24 is due by
June 2011 and may be as much as 10 months late, he said.  
 Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed “is on contract to
deliver,” Lehner said. “The onus is on them to figure out what
they need to do to manage the program.”  
 The Pentagon accelerated its planned purchases of the
interceptor for the new regional defense system before learning
of the delay.  
 Congress has already approved $420 million this year for 26
interceptors, and the Pentagon is requesting $858 million in
fiscal 2011 to buy 32 more, 67 in 2012 and 72 each in 2013-2015
for about $4.5 billion.  
 Ann Luhr , a spokeswoman for East Aurora, New York-based
Moog, said the company’s contract with Lockheed prohibits it
from commenting.  
 ‘Longer Than Anticipated’  
 Lockheed spokeswoman  Cheryl Amerine  said the requirement
for a safety switch was added after the interceptor began flight
testing. “The design, testing and qualification” of the
switch’s manufacturing process “took longer than we
anticipated,” she said.  
 Lehner said Moog had to shut down its production line for
two months to fix flaws. The line restarted in May, and the
company delivered the first improved switch for testing this
month, he said. Test models have scored successful intercepts in
each of seven tests through June 29, he said.  
 Lockheed engineers were assigned to oversee “all design
and manufacturing process improvements at Moog,” Lehner said.  
 Cristina Chaplain, a director in the U.S. Government
Accountability Office, said she’s “seen similar production
issues” in other Missile Defense Agency programs, “where
officials approve production before all necessary systems
engineering is successfully completed.”  
 “Now a growing number of interceptors are mostly complete,
but all still await this critical part,” said Chaplain, who
analyzes missile defense programs for the congressional watchdog
agency.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        