-- Ohio Capital Cuts Build America Sale as Spread Narrows to Lowest in Month
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-29T20:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/ohio-capital-pays-higher-premium-than-montgomery-on-parceling-of-debt-sale.html

          
          
             Columbus,  Ohio, the capital whose
debt rates a grade above the state’s, sold about $191 million in
Build America Bonds as the premium to Treasuries shrank to the
lowest in a month.  
 The top-rated issue totaled $413 million in general
obligations instead of the $430 million originally planned,
including $266 million in Build Americas. Even with the
decrease, the taxable Build America issue was the week’s second-
largest such offer, and came as the yield  spread  with 30-year
Treasuries narrowed to the lowest since June 28.  
 “I think in the future you’re going to see deals that are
half tax-exempt and half BABs, like this Columbus deal is,”
said  Anthony Shields , a principal in the public-finance
department at Williams Capital Group in New York. “Assuming we
get the BABs extended at the end of this year.”  
 The 10-year maturity of the federally subsidized bonds
priced to yield 3.89 percent, 90 basis points higher than a 10-
year U.S.  Treasury.   
 The Build America Bond program, under which the federal
government pays 35 percent of the interest costs of taxable
bonds sold to pay for public works projects, was created last
year as part of President  Barack Obama ’s economic-stimulus
package to help ease borrowing by state and local governments.
The program was set to expire at the end of 2010, though a bill
was introduced yesterday in the U.S. House to extend it two
years.  
 “We’ll probably end up close to a 50/50 split between tax-
exempts and taxables,” Steve Wentzel, Columbus’s debt
management specialist, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Calls to Wentzel today weren’t immediately returned.  
 Municipal Boon  
 Build Americas have been a boon for state and local
governments, which have sold about $124 billion of the
securities. They also have been a plus for investors, according
to  Justin Hoogendoorn , a bond strategist at BMO Capital Markets
in Chicago.  
 “What we’re telling clients is that BABs and the broader
municipal market in general are very favorable compared with
corporates right now,” Hoogendoorn said. “Ohio paper is
definitely pricing wider than the overall market, but with
Columbus, I wouldn’t expect them to have too many problems with
pricing on the deal.”  
 This month, top-rated taxable municipal securities have
returned more than triple the rate of comparable corporate
bonds, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s
Merrill Lynch & Co.  
 Tax-Exempts  
 Columbus also sold about $195 million in tax-exempts that
priced at 2.62 percent for 10-year maturities. Yields on top-
rated, tax-exempt general obligations that mature in 10 years
averaged  2.86 percent  yesterday for a sixth consecutive day, the
lowest since at least January 2001, according to data from
Municipal Market Advisors, an independent research firm in
Concord, Massachusetts.  
 The Columbus issue was marketed by a group led by St.
Louis-based Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Proceeds from the general
obligations with maturities of two to 21 years will go toward
building medical facilities, parks, transportation projects and
debt refinancing.  
 Following are descriptions of pending sales of municipal
debt in the U.S.:  
 MINNESOTA , which is delaying its tax refunds for a second
year to fulfill legal obligations to balance its books, plans to
sell through competitive bidding $865 million in general-
obligation taxable and tax-exempt bonds as soon as next week to
finance capital improvement projects. The state is raising $635
million for various purposes and $225 million for trunk
highways, both of which are tax-exempt, and $5 million of
taxable debt. The bonds are top-rated by Fitch and carry Moody’s
second-highest grade at Aa1. (Added July 29)  
 MIAMI-DADE COUNTY EXPRESSWAY AUTHORITY, which operates the
five major highways in Florida, will sell $350 million in tax-
exempt debt as soon as next week to add reserves to the agency’s
construction and debt-service funds. The bonds, backed by toll
revenue, are rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by Fitch, the fourth-
lowest investment grades, and A by S&P, one level higher.
Underwriters led by Citigroup will market the securities. (Added
July 26)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Doom  in New York at 
 jdoom@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        