-- Oil Falls, Poised for Weekly Decline, on Weaker Global Economic Concern
-- Alexander Kwiatkowski
-- 2010-07-30T11:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/oil-little-changed-after-first-gain-in-week-as-stocks-climb-dollar-falls.html

          
          
             Oil fell in New York, poised for its
biggest weekly decline in four, on concern that faltering global
economic growth will curtail a recovery in fuel demand.  
 Crude pared yesterday’s 1.8 percent gain as Asian and
European equities dropped before a report on U.S. gross domestic
product. Oil has retreated 1.4 percent this week, its largest
loss since the five days ended July 2. Prices may decline next
week as U.S. inventories rise, according to a Bloomberg survey
of analysts.  
 “The U.S. GDP will be a market mover,”  Tobias Merath ,
head of commodity research at Credit Suisse Group AG, said by
phone. “The market is waiting for the next impetus. If you look
at supply, demand and inventory levels then you can argue it is
well-supplied.”  
 Crude oil for September delivery fell as much as 79 cents,
or 1 percent, to $77.57 a barrel in electronic trading on the
New York Mercantile Exchange. It was at $77.86 at 12:52 p.m.
London time. Brent crude for September settlement dropped as
much as 79 cents on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
and was at $77.12 a barrel.  
 Oil’s drop is probably “a combination of weaker equity
markets in Europe and Asia together with a stronger U.S. dollar
and some economic concerns,”  Eugen Weinberg , Frankfurt-based
head of commodity research at Commerzbank AG, said today.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 0.4 percent to 255.17.  
 U.S. Growth  
 The U.S. economy probably grew in the second quarter at
about the same pace as in the prior three months, economists
said before a report today. The 2.6 percent gain in gross
domestic product from April through June would follow a 2.7
percent first-quarter increase, according to the median estimate
of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The spread between oil futures in New York and London
shrunk to the narrowest in two weeks today, making West Africa
oil priced off the European benchmark more expensive for U.S.
buyers. Rising oil stockpiles in the U.S. may lead to New York
crude losing its premium, consultant Petromatrix GmbH said
yesterday.  
 U.S. crude inventories climbed 7.31 million barrels to
360.8 million last week, an Energy Department report showed.
Imports increased 12 percent to 11.2 million barrels a day, the
highest level since Aug. 25, 2006. Imports in states along the
Gulf of Mexico jumped to a record 7.21 million.  
 Crude oil may fall next week amid increases in U.S. oil
supplies and OPEC production, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  
 Fifteen of 36 analysts, or 42 percent, forecast crude oil
will decline through Aug. 6. Twelve respondents, or 33 percent,
predicted that futures will rise, and nine, or 25 percent,
forecast prices would be little changed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Kwiatkowski  in London at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        