-- Molycorp Chops Rare-Earth Initial Public Offering by 18% to $394 Million
-- Kristen Scholer
-- 2010-07-29T12:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/molycorp-reduces-planned-rare-earth-initial-offering-18-to-394-million.html

          
          
             Molycorp Inc., owner of the world’s
largest non-Chinese deposit of rare-earth metals, chopped the
price of its planned initial public offering by as much as 18
percent to $394 million.  
 The Greenwood Village, Colorado-based company will try to
sell 28.13 million shares at $14 after its underwriters failed
to attract enough buyers at $15 to $17 apiece, according to its
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission today.
Molycorp will use the proceeds to refurbish equipment and
facilities at its open-pit mine, located 60 miles southwest of
Las Vegas in the Mojave Desert.  
 Molycorp is using the share sale to fund its half-billion
dollar plan to restart mining at a site that once met almost all
the world’s demand for rare-earth ores and compete with Chinese
producers that now supply 97 percent of  the metals . Molycorp
reduced its IPO after two companies postponed or delayed their
sales yesterday and one company,  Envestnet Inc. , slashed its
deal by 42 percent to attract enough buyers.  
 “Companies need the combination of a good story at a good
price,” said  Timothy Cunningham , who helps oversee $57 billion
at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, New Mexico. “We
haven’t really seen that. A lot of these deals are not great
quality, and the pricing of the deals is too aggressive.”  
 Of the five U.S. companies that scheduled IPOs this week,
only  Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP , the pipeline operator
owned by the second-largest U.S. natural gas producer, has
raised as much as it sought in its $446 million offering.  
 Morgan Stanley  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York are
leading the Molycorp’s offering. The stock will trade on the New
York Stock Exchange under the ticker MCP.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristen Scholer  in New York at 
 kscholer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        