-- Molycorp, Envestnet Slash IPOs, SurgiVision Postpones
-- Kristen Scholer
-- 2010-07-29T16:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/molycorp-envestnet-reduce-initial-offerings-as-surgivision-postpones-sale.html

          
          
             Molycorp Inc., owner of the world’s
largest non-Chinese deposit of rare-earth metals, and Internet
investment-services provider  Envestnet Inc.  priced initial
public offerings after reducing their size, while two other
companies delayed or postponed sales.  
 Molycorp fell as much as 14 percent and traded at $12.42 as
of 12:10 p.m. in New York. The company sold 28.13 million shares
at $14 after its underwriters failed to attract enough buyers at
$15 to $17 apiece, according to Bloomberg data. Envestnet raised
$63 million yesterday after cutting its IPO by 42 percent.  
 Four IPOs by U.S. companies were postponed, delayed or
reduced in size this week after deals worldwide last quarter
were canceled at the fastest rate since the collapse of New
York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index , which has been up as much as 8.2 percent this month,
sank to its lowest level since September on July 2 as concern
about the global economic recovery shook investor confidence.  
 “When you have a risk-averse market, that’s going to make
it difficult to get valuations on new companies coming up,”
said  Joseph Garner , director of research at Lancaster,
Pensylvania-based Emerald Asset Management Inc., which oversees
about $2 billion. “If you’re risk-averse on companies you are
familiar with and that have track records, you’re probably
inclined to be more so with ones that don’t.”  
 Deal Postponed  
 SurgiVision Inc., the Memphis, Tennessee-based developer of
medical equipment and software for magnetic resonance imaging,
yesterday postponed its initial share sale after reducing the
proposed size by as much as 40 percent, Bloomberg data showed.  
 Greenwood Village, Colorado-based Molycorp, which aims to
challenge Chinese dominance in the production of rare-earth
metals by reopening a mine in the Mojave Desert of California,
sold 2.5 million shares to existing shareholders including
private-equity backer Resource Capital Funds of Denver,
according to  filings . Molycorp’s IPO was led by New York-based
Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Envestnet, based in Chicago, jumped by as much as  17
percent  in New York trading today following the offering it
completed after slashing the price and number of shares in a
sale managed by Morgan Stanley and Zurich-based UBS AG.  
 “Our bankers tell us it was a tough market for new
companies to access,” Envestnet’s Chief Executive Officer  Jud Bergman  said in an interview today. “Good companies can get out
in markets like this, and we’re just pleased that we got out.”  
 Chesapeake Midstream Partners LP, an Oklahoma City-based
pipeline operator owned by the second-largest U.S. natural-gas
producer, gained as much as  9.5 percent  in New York trading
after raising $446 million in an initial share sale at the high
end of the range. Chesapeake’s IPO was managed by UBS, New York-
based Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley.  
 Trius Therapeutics Inc., the San Diego-based developer of
antibiotics, is scheduled to price an $84 million offering led
by Citigroup today after twice delaying the sale this week,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristen Scholer  in New York at 
 kscholer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        