-- London Mayor Risks $7.8 Million a Year on Cycle-Hire Program
-- Stephen Morris
-- 2010-07-29T23:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/london-mayor-risks-7-8-million-a-year-to-promote-bicycle-rental-program.html

          
          
             Mayor  Boris Johnson  is spending 140
million pounds ($218 million) to encourage more Londoners to get
on two wheels with a cycle-hire program that sprinkles the
capital with as many as 5,000 bikes starting today.  
 The initiative, funded by Transport for London, sponsored
by  Barclays Plc  and operated by  Serco Plc , could lose as much as
5 million pounds a year, according to Kulveer Ranger, Johnson’s
transport adviser. At best, it will break even as subscribers
pay six pounds for a two-hour rental or 50 pounds for a full
day. The first 30 minutes, though, are free.  
 “I think we’ve got to be realistic,” Johnson, who pedals
to his Tower Bridge office, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “It’ll be a while before it makes money for the
taxpayer. The objective is to give Londoners a clean, green
alternative, particularly for short journeys where they might
think of using cars, which I think is crazy.”  
 Barcelona, Paris and Brussels are among European cities
that have introduced public cycle-rental systems. France’s
“Velib” program, combining the words for bicycle and freedom,
was an instant hit in July 2007 with 1 million customers after
18 days. About a third of the 24,000 bikes installed, though,
have been stolen, with thousands more damaged.  
 The London project, which covers the Royal Parks and nine
central boroughs, was initiated by former Mayor  Ken Livingstone .
Johnson adopted it as part of his manifesto to oust Livingston
in the 2008 election, pledging “to bring thousands of bikes to
the capital at no cost to the taxpayer.”  
 Barclays is paying 25 million pounds for five years to
cover a quarter of the annual 20 million-pound cost, with
10 million pounds to 15 million pounds coming from users.  
 “We’re looking for the scheme to be as cost-effective as
possible and as it becomes more popular we’d like to see some
revenue from it,” Ranger said.  
 Members Only  
 Londoners expecting to cycle home on the first day may face
disappointment, as only the 10,400 people who pre-registered by
yesterday can unlock the bikes. Casual riders won’t be allowed
until September at the earliest.  
 London’s transport operator expects as many as 40,000 extra
bike journeys per day once the full system of 6,000 cycles, at
400 stations sited about 300 meters apart, is available.  
 The bikes are an updated version of Montreal’s “Bixi”
bikes. Weighing 23 kilograms, they are designed for trips of
half an hour or less and, more crucially, to be theft-proof.  
 “It’s quite a robust bike, which is a good thing in terms
of vandalism, but not particularly good in terms of the
weight,” said Michael Cunningham, retail operations manager for
Guildford, U.K.-based The Cycle Surgery, which operates 11
stores in London. “Hiring a bike and trialing it is going to
result in more  bike sales  for us. It will be the catalyst to get
someone commuting in by bike.”  
 Serco, the operator of the Docklands Light Railway and
Woolwich Ferry, did not respond to e-mails or telephone calls.  
 Paris Problems  
 JCDecaux SA , the world’s second biggest-seller of outdoor
advertising, operates the Paris program, which struggled during
the recession, prompting the company to renegotiate its 90
million-euro ($117 million) contract with the city.  
 “The reality is that we underestimated at the beginning
the level of broken bikes or stolen bikes,” said Albert
Asseraf, director of strategy, research and marketing at
JCDecaux, in a telephone interview. “We had discussions with
the city when we saw that there were a few indicators that we’re
really in the red.”  
 The secret of success is to persuade Londoners to treat the
bikes as their own, Asseraf said. “It is important to make
people appropriate the system to ensure that they will be
respectful.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Mayor Boris Johnson is spending 140 million pounds ($218 million) to encourage more Londoners to get on two wheels with a cycle-hire program that sprinkles the capital with as many as 5,000 bikes starting today.
     Bloomberg's Elliott Gotkine reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
