-- Money-Market Rate in China Declines to a 13-Week Low; Yuan Little Changed
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-29T08:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/money-market-rate-in-china-declines-to-a-13-week-low-yuan-little-changed.html

          
          
             China’s benchmark money-market rate
dropped to a 13-week low, prompting the central bank to withdraw
cash from banks for a second week.  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, slid one basis point to 1.68 percent,
according to the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate,
now at the lowest level since May 5, has declined for four weeks
in a row. The People’s Bank of China has drained a net 84
billion yuan ($12.4 billion) this week after taking out 81
billion yuan last week. It injected funds in the eight previous
weeks as the repo rate climbed to a 19-month high on June 2.  
 “Cash supply is relatively loose now following the central
bank’s continuous fund additions,” said  Chen Jianbo , a Beijing-
based fixed-income analyst at BOC (China) Holdings, the
investment-banking arm of Bank of China Ltd. “The PBOC will
continue to drain money from the market in the third quarter to
help contain inflation.”  
 China needs to remain alert to inflation risks, the central
bank said in a July 27 statement. Rising labor costs and a
return to increases in food prices are among reasons to be
cautious, it said.  
 Open-Market Operations  
 Inflation , which eased to 2.9 percent in June, may climb
above 3 percent in the next few months before falling at the end
of this year, UBS economist  Wang Tao  wrote in a report this
week.  
 Government bonds due in five years and less were little
changed following a central bank auction of three-month bills
and three-year bonds.  
 The central bank sold 85 billion yuan of three-year bills
at 2.65 percent, unchanged from the previous sale two weeks ago.
It issued 22 billion yuan of three-month securities at 1.5704
percent, unchanged for a fifth straight sale.  
 The yield on the 2.53 percent note due in June 2015 was
2.64 percent, and the price of the security was 99.52 per 100
yuan face amount, according to the China Interbank Bond Market
data. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Yuan forwards were little changed against the dollar on
signs the central bank favors a stable currency as the economy
slows and trading partners call for appreciation.  
 Daily Fixing  
 The monetary authority left the daily fixing at the same
rate from yesterday for the first time since June 24. Yuan
appreciation has slowed to 0.04 percent in July from 0.69
percent last month, the biggest increase in two years after the
central bank ended its dollar peg on June 19. China’s decision
to allow the yuan to strengthen against the dollar may fail to
narrow the U.S. trade deficit unless the appreciation is
substantial, according to the Federal Reserve of Cleveland.  
 “We won’t be seeing much movement in the yuan forwards as
the spot is very range-bound,” said  Peng Wensheng , head of
China research at Barclays Plc in Hong Kong. “Domestically, the
economy is slowing slightly but externally, the political
pressure remains.”  
 The 12-month non-deliverable yuan forward was little
changed at 6.6905 per dollar as of 2:57 a.m. in Hong Kong,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contract reflects
bets the currency will advance 1.3 percent from the spot rate of
6.7761.  
 The currency’s daily  reference rate  was unchanged from
yesterday at 6.7787. The yuan is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on
either side of the fixing.  
 ‘Tangible Risk’  
 Manufacturing data due in four days could jolt global
markets by showing the first contraction in 17 months, according
to analysts at Societe Generale SA and Westpac Banking Corp.
Seasonal factors mean there is a “tangible risk” the
government-backed Purchasing Managers’ Index for July will slip
below 50 for the first time since February 2009, said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia economist for Societe Generale in Hong Kong.  
 The yuan isn’t undervalued,  He Weiwen , director of the
U.S.-China economic and trade research center at the University
of International Business and Economics, wrote yesterday in the
People’s Daily newspaper.  
 “A renminbi appreciation should raise the dollar price of
Chinese goods, lower the renminbi price of U.S. goods, and
whittle away at our  trade deficit  with that country,” Owen
Humpage, a senior economist at the Cleveland Fed wrote in a
research note published yesterday. “Still, unless the exchange
rate moves by a substantial amount, we probably will not see
much of an effect.”  
 -- Belinda Cao ,  Patricia Lui . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  Ven Ram   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Belinda Cao in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net 
 Patricia Lui  at +65-6499-2658 or
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        