-- Hongkong Electric Starts Up City's Biggest Solar Project on Lamma Island
-- John Duce
-- 2010-07-29T08:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/hongkong-electric-starts-up-city-s-biggest-solar-project-on-lamma-island.html

          
          
             Hongkong Electric Holdings Ltd. , the
utility controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , formally started
up the city’s biggest solar-power project today as part of
efforts to help cut pollution.  
 Solar panels on the roof of the company’s Lamma island
power station are capable of generating a total of 550 kilowatts,
Hongkong Electric said in a statement today. That’s less than 1
percent of the overall capacity of the 3,700-megawatt plant,
which uses coal as its main fuel source.  
 “It’s quite difficult to develop a large-scale solar
project as you need a lot space, and in Hong Kong, we don’t have
that,” HK Electric General Manager of Projects Frank Lau told
reporters visiting the plant. “We will gain more experience and
build from this, while gaining the environmental benefits.”  
 Hong Kong lags behind rival financial hubs including
Singapore and Tokyo as the city struggles with air pollution,
according to a quality-of-life survey by Mercer Consulting. In
response to public demands for cleaner ways to generate power,
utilities Hongkong Electric and  CLP Holdings Ltd.  have been set
targets by the city’s government to cut emissions and pollution.  
 The HK$23 million ($3 million) solar project will produce
enough electricity for 150 families for a year and cut 520
metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions annually, according to
the statement.  
 The panels can generate electricity even in cloudy weather,
Managing Director  Tso Kai-sum  told reporters. Their capacity may
be expanded to 1 megawatt, the utility said in its statement,
without giving a timeline.  
 Wind Farms  
 The government wants 2 percent of the city’s power to be
produced by renewable energy by 2012. Under the city’s revised
Scheme of Control system introduced in 2009, renewable-energy
plants can earn an 11 percent return on investment, compared
with a rate of less than 10 percent for coal-fired generators.  
 Hongkong Electric is planning a wind farm off the coast of
Lamma island to reduce emissions. The project could cost as much
as HK$3 billion and can produce about 100 megawatts of
electricity, according to details of a feasibility study
released in February.  
 The utility aims to start up the wind farm in 2015, Tso
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        