-- Moody's Climbs as Much as 6.8% After Net Income Exceeds Analyst Estimates
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-07-29T17:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/moody-s-climbs-as-much-as-6-8-after-net-income-exceeds-analyst-estimates.html

          
          
             Moody’s Corp. , one of the bond
raters that’s refusing to allow its opinions to be used in
asset-backed securities offerings because of new legal risks,
rose as much as 6.8 percent after reporting profit that beat
analyst estimates.  
 Net income climbed to $121 million, or 51 cents a share,
from $109.3 million, or 46 cents, a year earlier, New York-based
Moody’s said today in a statement. Excluding tax and
restructuring costs, the company earned 49 cents a share, 5
cents higher than the average forecast of six analysts  surveyed 
by Bloomberg.  
 The U.S. financial-regulation overhaul enacted July 21 led
ratings companies to tell Wall Street that they will no longer
let underwriters use ratings in asset-backed bond-registration
statements because of increased risk of being sued. The new
rules eliminated credit-rating companies’ shield from lawsuits
when underwriters include their assessments in documents used to
sell debt.  
 “We are not able to provide that consent without further
study of the matter,” Chief Executive Officer  Raymond McDaniel 
said today on a conference call with analysts.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission said July 23 that
companies could omit ratings from regulatory documents for six
months to give market participants a transition period to comply
with new laws.  
 Ford Motor Co.’s finance unit sold $1.39 billion of bonds
tied to auto loans on July 27 in the first sale in the asset-
backed market since financial reform became law.  
 ‘Temporarily Resolved’  
 “Ford Motor Credit Company worked with the SEC to find an
approach that temporarily resolved this industry issue,”
 Margaret Mellott , a Ford spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement on July 26.  
 Moody’s revenue increase was led by U.S. ratings services,
the company said. Sales for Moody’s Investors Service grew 5.9
percent, led by a jump in business for rating U.S. corporate
debt. Moody’s earned $127.9 million from rating U.S. corporate
bonds in the quarter, up 19 percent from the year-earlier
period.  
 The gain was “driven primarily by strong high-yield bank
loan origination, which more than offset reduced issuance in the
investment-grade market,” the company said in the statement.  
 U.S. issuance was off 23 percent while international bond
offerings fell 33 percent, compared with the second quarter of
2009, analysts led by  Peter Appert  of Piper Jaffray & Co., said
in a note to clients this month.  
 Shares Rise  
 “Economic turmoil in Europe and a related uptick in credit
spreads” slowed issuance in the quarter ended June 30, compared
with the similar period a year ago, the analyst said.  
 Moody’s  rose  99 cents, or 4.4 percent, to $23.63 of 1:18
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock
traded as high as $24.17 earlier in the day. The shares had
dropped almost 16 percent this year through yesterday.  
 The company, whose founder John Moody created credit
ratings in 1909, said total revenue increased 6 percent to $478
million.  
 Moody’s reiterated its forecast for 2010 earnings per share
of $1.75 to $1.85. Analysts anticipate adjusted earnings of
$1.82, according to a Bloomberg survey. The company expects 2010
revenue to increase in the “mid-single-digit percent range,”
down from a “high-single-digit percent range” it forecast in
its earnings statement in April.  
 Regulatory Scrutiny  
 Ratings companies Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, a unit of
McGraw-Hill Cos., and Fitch have faced congressional and state-
regulator scrutiny after they assigned top marks to U.S.
subprime-mortgage bonds just before that market collapsed in
2007. Moody’s has fallen 67 percent from the start of 2007
through the week ended July 23.  
 Within Moody’s ratings business, global structured finance
revenue fell 2 percent to $73.1 million in the quarter, the
company said. The Moody’s Analytics unit saw revenue climb 6.3
percent to $149.2 million. Outside the U.S. the company’s sales
rose 1.3 percent, compared with a U.S. increase of 10.3 percent.  
 The biggest threat to Moody’s and other raters’ business
from the new financial rules is a lowered threshold in liability
standards they face against investors who sue the firms,
according to Appert at Piper Jaffray.  
 “The lower pleading standard is aimed at making litigation
a credible deterrent and creates an incentive for the rating
agencies to strengthen their due diligence efforts,” the
analyst wrote in a July 21 note to clients.  
 Another effect of the new laws is a mandate for the removal
from all government rules and regulations of any references to
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, a
designation given to credit-rating companies by the SEC.  
 Appert said the new legal risk for credit raters in asset-
backed deals is “low.”  
 “From a practical standpoint, we believe this change will
have no impact as we anticipate that the rating agencies will no
longer allow the publication of ratings in prospectuses,” he
said in the July 21 note. “Investors will instead have to track
ratings via the agencies’ websites, publications or other
sources.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        