-- Moody's Shares Advance as Profit Beats Estimates on U.S. Ratings Business
-- Matthew Leising
-- 2010-07-29T14:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/moody-s-profit-rises-11-to-121-million-on-strong-u-s-ratings-business.html

          
          
             Moody’s Corp. , one of the bond
raters that’s refusing to allow its opinions to be used in
asset-backed securities offerings due to new legal risk, rose as
much as 6.8 percent after reporting profit that beat analyst
estimates.  
 Net income climbed to $121 million, or 51 cents a share,
from $109.3 million, or 46 cents, a year earlier, New York-based
Moody’s said today in a statement. Excluding tax and
restructuring costs, the company earned 49 cents a share, which
compares with 44 cents, the average forecast of six analysts
 surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 The increase was led by strong U.S. ratings services, the
company said. Revenue for Moody’s Investors Service grew 5.9
percent, led by a jump in business for rating U.S. corporate
debt. Moody’s earned $127.9 million from rating U.S. corporate
bonds in the quarter, up 19 percent from the year-earlier
period.  
 The gain was “driven primarily by strong high-yield bank
loan origination, which more than offset reduced issuance in the
investment-grade market,” the company said in the statement.  
 U.S. issuance was off 23 percent while international bond
offerings fell 33 percent, compared with the second quarter of
2009, analysts led by  Peter Appert  of Piper Jaffray & Co., said
in a note to clients this month.  
 “Economic turmoil in Europe and a related uptick in credit
spreads” slowed issuance in the quarter ended June 30, compared
with the similar period a year ago, the analyst said.  
 Stock Rises  
 Moody’s  rose  $1.26, or 5.6 percent, to $23.90 of 10:36 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock traded
as high as $24.17 earlier in the day. The shares had dropped 16
percent this year through yesterday.  
 The U.S. financial-regulation overhaul, signed into law by
President  Barack Obama  on July 21, led Moody’s Investors Service
and Fitch Ratings to tell Wall Street that because of increased
risk of being sued, they will no longer let underwriters use
ratings in asset-backed bond-registration statements. The new
rules eliminated credit-rating companies’ shield from lawsuits
when underwriters include their assessments in documents used to
sell debt.  
 The company, whose founder John Moody created credit
ratings in 1909, said total revenue increased 6 percent to $478
million.  
 2010 Forecast  
 Moody’s reiterated its forecast for 2010 earnings per share
of $1.75 to $1.85. Analysts anticipate adjusted earnings of
$1.82, according to a Bloomberg survey. The company expects 2010
revenue to increase in the “mid-single-digit percent range,”
down from a “high-single-digit percent range” it forecast in
its earnings statement in April.  
 Ratings companies Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch have
faced congressional and state-regulator scrutiny after they
assigned top marks to U.S. subprime-mortgage bonds just before
that market collapsed in 2007. Moody’s, led by Chief Executive
Officer  Raymond McDaniel , has fallen 67 percent from the start
of 2007 through the week ended July 23.  
 Within Moody’s ratings business, global structured finance
revenue fell 2 percent to $73.1 million in the quarter, the
company said. The Moody’s Analytics unit saw revenue climb 6.3
percent to $149.2 million. Outside the U.S. the company’s sales
rose 1.3 percent, compared with a U.S. increase of 10.3 percent.  
 New Rules  
 The biggest threat to Moody’s and other raters’ business
from the new financial rules is a lowered threshold in liability
standards they face against investors who sue the firms,
according to Appert at Piper Jaffray.  
 “The lower pleading standard is aimed at making litigation
a credible deterrent and creates an incentive for the rating
agencies to strengthen their due diligence efforts,” the
analyst wrote in a July 21 note to clients.  
 Another effect of the new laws is a mandate for the removal
from all government rules and regulations of any references to
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, a
designation given to credit-rating companies by the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  
 Appert said the new legal risk for credit raters in asset-
backed deals is “low.”  
 “From a practical standpoint, we believe this change will
have no impact as we anticipate that the rating agencies will no
longer allow the publication of ratings in prospectuses,” he
said in the July 21 note. “Investors will instead have to track
ratings via the agencies’ websites, publications or other
sources.”  
 (Moody’s will hold a conference call for analysts and
investors at 11:30 a.m. New York time. To listen, access the
company’s Web site at  http://ir.moodys.com )  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Leising  in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        