-- Moore's Blochet Moves to Switzerland as Hedge-Fund Managers Flee U.K. Tax
-- Katherine Burton
-- 2010-07-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/moore-s-jean-philippe-blochet-moves-to-zurich-as-bankers-flee-u-k-taxes.html

          
          
             Moore Capital Management LP’s  Jean- Philippe Blochet , a senior partner at the $15 billion hedge-fund
firm, is moving to Zurich from London.  
 Shawn Pattison , a spokesman for New York-based Moore,
confirmed Blochet’s move and the opening of Moore’s Zurich
office. Another portfolio manager,  Kornelius Klobucar , will be
joining Blochet.  
 London-based financial professional have been picking up
stakes and heading to Switzerland this year after Britain raised
income  taxes  for citizens making more than 150,000 pounds
($234,120) to 50 percent from 40 percent. The top tax rates in
the U.K. now exceed those in Germany and France for the first
time since 1989.  
 Lighter regulation and the willingness of Swiss cantons, as
regional governments are called, to negotiate special tax rates
for both individuals and businesses have prompted at least 30
London hedge-fund managers to consider moving to Geneva in the
past year, said Shelby du Pasquier, a Geneva-based partner at
Lenz & Staehelin, a Swiss law firm.  
 Other multibillion-dollar funds have already opened offices
in Switzerland.  
 Alan Howard , co-founder of Brevan Howard Asset Management
LLP, Europe’s largest hedge-fund firm with more than $30 billion
in assets, has relocated to Geneva from London.  
 BlueCrest Capital Management Ltd., Europe’s third-largest
hedge-fund firm, opened a Geneva office for as many as 70
traders and analysts who have worked in London on its two
biggest funds.  
 Blochet, 46, joined Moore at the beginning of the year. He
was a one of the five founding partners at Brevan Howard, and
worked with Howard at Credit Suisse First Boston’s proprietary
fixed-income trading desk.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        