-- Brazil's Top Soy Grower Scales Back Expansion Plans on Real's Surge, Roads
-- Katia Cortes
-- 2010-07-29T16:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/top-brazilian-soy-grower-scales-back-expansion-on-currency-rally-roads.html

          
          
             Erai Maggi Scheffer, Brazil’s
biggest soybean grower, scaled back plans to boost output next
year as a strengthening currency erodes export profits and pot-
holed roads increase shipping costs.  
 Soybean output at his  Grupo Bom Futuro ’s farms will be
little changed from this year’s 720,000 metric tons, Scheffer
said in an interview in Brasilia yesterday. Growers in Brazil’s
center-western Mato Grosso state, where Scheffer’s farms are
based, start planting soybeans in September and harvesting in
February.  
 “The strong real is making us less competitive,” Scheffer
said. “We would have much more of a stimulus with a weaker
currency and better roads.”  
 The Brazilian real jumped 7.3 percent in the past six
months, the best performance of the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The rally reduces the local-currency value
of exports. The appreciation, along with higher shipping costs
than in the U.S. and Argentina, have discouraged farmers from
increasing planting in major producing areas of Brazil, Scheffer
said.  
 Brazil is the biggest producer of the oilseed after the
U.S. and Argentina is the third largest.  
 Growers in Mato Grosso, which produce about half of
Brazil’s soybeans, sold a 60-kilogram (132-pound) bag of the
oilseed for 39.08 reais ($22) on average yesterday,  down  13
percent from a year ago, according to the University of Sao
Paulo’s Cepea research unit. Soy futures on the Chicago Board of
Trade have fallen 3.5 percent over the past year.  
 Production Costs  
 Grupo Bom Futuro has already sold 90 percent of this year’s
crop for an average 30 reais per bag, compared with production
costs of 28 reais, Scheffer said. Growers in Mato Grosso need to
sell the oilseed at about 40 reais per bag to make a profit, he
said.  
 The group has 230,000 hectares (568,000 acres) of soybean
crops, Scheffer said.  
 Brazil will harvest a record 68.7 million tons of the
oilseed this year, up from 57.1 million tons last year, the
Agriculture Ministry said on July 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        