-- Orexigen's Two-Drug Obesity Pill Cuts Hunger, Cravings, Weight in Study
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-07-29T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/orexigen-s-two-drug-obesity-pill-cuts-hunger-cravings-weight-in-obese.html

          
          
             Obese patients who took  Orexigen
Therapeutics Inc. ’s experimental pill combining an anti-
addiction drug and an antidepressant lost more weight than those
who took a placebo, a company-sponsored study found.  
 Patients who took the Orexigen pill, Contrave, and were
given diet and exercise suggestions shed 5 percent to 6 percent
of their body weight compared with an average weight loss of 1.3
percent among those taking placebos.  
 La Jolla, California-based Orexigen is racing with  Vivus
Inc.  and  Arena Pharmaceuticals  Inc. to bring weight-loss drugs
to market. Applications from all three are pending before the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Agency advisers recommended
against approving the Vivus drug on July 15 citing safety
concerns, some of which have plagued previous weight-loss drugs.
In January, Abbott Laboratories pulled Meridia from the European
market at the urging of regulators concerned about heart risks.  
 The Meridia experience “perhaps suggests that more data
are needed to get a better overall assessment of cardiovascular
risk of this otherwise promising combination,” said  Arne
Astrup , a professor in the Department of Human Nutrition at the
University of Copenhagen, in an editorial accompanying the
Contrave study. Both articles were published today in the
journal  Lancet .  
 Contrave combines two currently marketed drugs, naltrexone,
used to reduce the urge to consume alcohol or addictive drugs,
and bupropion, an antidepressant also used to combat smoking
addiction.  
 Blood Pressure  
 Both drugs are known to increase blood pressure, Astrup
said in his commentary. Among the study patients, those taking
Contrave had the blood pressure rise slightly in the first
month, then drop slightly for the remainder of the trial. It
didn’t drop significantly, as usually occurs when patients lose
weight, Astrup said.  
 Study patients took a fixed dose of bupropion and either a
higher or lower dose of naltrexone. A third group was given
placebos. All were prescribed a reduced-calorie diet and
exercise.  
 Participants had a body-mass index, or BMI, of 27 to 45. A
BMI of 30 or more is considered obese, equivalent to 180 pounds
for an adult 5 feet 5 inches tall. Those with a BMI of 25 to 30
are considered overweight.  
 Among the 1,453 patients whose results were assessed, those
taking the high-dose combination had a median loss of 13.4
pounds, about 6.1 percent of their body weight. The lower-dose
group lost a median 10.8 pounds, or 5 percent of their body
weight. Members of the placebo group lost 3.1 pounds, or 1.3
percent of their body weight.  
 Weight-Loss Performance  
 Not all the patients completed the 56-week trial. In the
smaller group of patients who did, weight loss was greater, said
 Frank Greenway , the lead author of the study. The weight loss
for people in the high-dose group who made it all the way
through the study was 17 pounds, or 8.1 percent of their body
weight; the lower-dose group lost 14.3 pounds, or 6.7 percent;
and the placebo group lost 4.2 pounds, or 1.8 percent of body
weight.  
 “That’s better than either of the two drugs that are
presently on the market” in the U.S., said Greenway, head of
clinical trials for the  Pennington Biomedical Research Center  at
Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. Those drugs are
Meridia and GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Xenical. Greenway is also a
consultant and member of the scientific advisory board for
Orexigen.  
 Cravings and Rewards  
 The two drugs that make up Orexigen’s new pill target
different parts of the brain, one that influences appetite and
the other that affects cravings and rewards, Greenway said.  
 “This is first obesity drug I’m aware of that appears to
have a significant effect on the reward system and it represents
something new and unique that will address issues some people
have that may not have been addressed in the past,” Greenway
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  
 The most common side effect was nausea, experienced by 30
percent of the high-dose group and 27 percent of the lower-dose
group. Headaches and constipation were also experienced by more
than 14 percent of those taking the drug.  
 The FDA is slated to decide on the drugs from San Diego-
based Arena and Mountain View, California-based Vivus by late
October and on the Orexigen pill by Jan. 31.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Waters in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        