-- Osborne Rebuffs Defense Secretary's Call for Spending Exception on Trident
-- Kitty Donaldson
-- 2010-07-29T14:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/osborne-declines-to-protect-u-k-s-nuclear-arms-from-cuts-in-cabinet-split.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  rejected exempting Britain’s Trident nuclear-
weapons system from budget cuts, revealing a split with Defense
Secretary  Liam Fox .  
 “The Trident costs, I have made it absolutely clear, are
part of the defense budget,” Osborne said in an interview in
New Delhi today. “All budgets have pressure. I don’t think
there’s anything particularly unique about the ministry of
defense. I have made it very clear that Trident renewal costs
must be taken as part of the defense budget.”  
 The clash between the two Conservative ministers
underscores the difficulty for Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
coalition with the Liberal Democrats in enacting the deepest
budget cuts since World War II. Most departments face reductions
of a third, the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies says.  
 “There is a storm brewing in the Cabinet,” said  John Curtice , professor of politics at Strathclyde University.
“What’s interesting is the fault line isn’t on party lines.”  
 Fox doesn’t want the 20 billion pounds ($31 billion) needed
to build submarines for carrying Trident missiles to come out of
his department’s “core” budget. Total U.K. defense spending is
about 40 billion pounds a year.  
 “There’s always been an understanding that the budget for
the nuclear deterrent came from outside the defense budget,”
Fox told BBC Television’s Andrew Marr Show on July 18. “We
really can’t afford to play fast and loose with defense.”  
 Strategic Review  
 The defense ministry will publish its first strategic
review since 1998 once Osborne details cuts to departments’
budgets on Oct. 20.  
 The ministry didn’t return a call today seeking comment.  
 Osborne is in India as part of a U.K. delegation that
includes 39 business leaders and four Cabinet members, seeking
to sell Britain as a place for Indian companies to do business
while asking India to create opportunities for U.K. investors.  
 Fox said July 13 the U.K. will look at Trident again in
2014 to see if it can use three submarines instead of the
current four. While the government is committed to maintaining a
nuclear deterrent, Cameron said June 23 there is “a case” for
“bearing down” on the cost of the Trident program.  
 BAE Systems Plc  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  are among the
contractors that would build the submarines planned to replace
the Vanguard-class vessels that carry the Trident missiles.  
 Rolls-Royce, the world’s second-biggest engine maker,
climbed 0.3 percent to 589 pence at 3:23 p.m. in London after
raising its earnings forecast. BAE, Europe’s largest defense
company, gained 0.9 percent to 319.8 pence after returning to
profit in the first half.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Delhi at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. chancellor of the exchequer George Osborne. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
