-- Toshiba Posts Profit on Flash Memory Demand, Beating Analyst Estimates
-- Jason Clenfield
-- 2010-07-29T06:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/toshiba-posts-profit-on-flash-memory-demand-beating-analyst-estimates.html

          
          
             Toshiba Corp. , the world’s second-
biggest maker of flash memory, posted its second straight
quarterly profit on rising chip demand, beating analyst
estimates for a loss.  
 Net income at the maker of chips, consumer electronics and
nuclear power plants was 466 million yen ($5.34 million) in the
three months ended June 30, compared with a loss of 57.8 billion
yen a year earlier, Tokyo-based Toshiba said in a statement
today. The  average estimate  of four analysts compiled by
Bloomberg was for a net loss of 2.65 billion yen.  
 Toshiba is benefiting from a surge in chip demand from hit
products such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone, which also helped rival
 Samsung Electronics Co.  post record profit last quarter. Global
sales of NAND, memory chips used to store photos and songs on
portable devices, will rise by 32 percent to a record $17.9
billion this year, according to El Segundo, California-based
research firm ISuppli.  
 Operating profit at Toshiba’s chip semiconductor business
was 22.2 billion yen in the three months through June, the
company said. Toshiba plans to start production at a fifth
semiconductor plant in central Japan in the second half of next
year in order to meet rising demand for flash memory.  
 Shares  of Toshiba fell 1 yen to close at 462 yen on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange, prior to the announcement. The stock has
dropped 9.6 percent this year compared with an 8 percent decline
in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  
 Samsung , the world’s biggest maker of NAND memory, said
 operating income  in the three months ended June 30 jumped 87
percent to about 5 trillion won ($4.21 billion), the Suwon,
South Korea-based company said this month.  
 Toshiba’s social infrastructure business, which makes
power-plant equipment, trains, and elevators, had an operating
loss of 1.1 billion yen, the company said. Profit at the digital
products division, which makes televisions, notebook computers
and servers, was 6.5 billion yen, Toshiba said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Clenfield  in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        