-- Most Pakistanis View U.S. as Enemy, Want Afghan War to End, Survey Finds
-- Nicole Gaouette
-- 2010-07-29T16:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/most-pakistanis-view-u-s-as-enemy-want-afghan-war-to-end-survey-finds.html

          
          
             Two-thirds of Pakistanis oppose the
U.S.-led war in Afghanistan and roughly six in 10 think the U.S.
is an enemy, according to a new survey.  
 The data, released today by the nonpartisan  Pew Research
Center  in Washington, underscores the challenges facing the
Obama administration, which has made Pakistan a key ally in its
fight to rout Afghanistan-based Taliban and al-Qaeda militants.  
 Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visited Pakistan this
month to announce aid of $1.5 billion a year for five years that
is meant to build Pakistani support for the U.S. war strategy.
By the end of fiscal 2010, the U.S. will have given Pakistan
about $6 billion in development and humanitarian aid since 2001,
according to the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service.  
 “You cannot succeed in Afghanistan without Pakistan’s
involvement,”  Richard Holbrooke , the U.S. special envoy to
Afghanistan and Pakistan told senators who question the level
and effectiveness of that aid on July 13. “There’s a direct
correlation between Afghanistan, Pakistan and our homeland
security.”  
 The Pew survey found that only 11 percent of Pakistanis see
the U.S. as a partner and just 8 percent have confidence that
President  Barack Obama  will make good decisions on global
affairs.  
 Resisting Terrorists  
 Clinton said June 25 that the U.S. is determined to
“strengthen Afghanistan and Pakistan to be able to withstand
the pressures from these extremist terrorist networks.”  
 Yet the percentage of Pakistanis who support U.S.
involvement in the fight against extremists has dropped to 19
percent this year from 24 percent in 2009.  
 And fewer Pakistanis see the militants as a threat. In
2009, 57 percent of Pakistanis saw the Taliban as a “very
serious threat” to their country. This year, the number fell to
34 percent. Last year, 41 percent said al-Qaeda posed a very
serious threat to Pakistan. This year, 21 percent of respondents
felt that way.  
 In contrast, 52 percent said India posed the greatest
threat to their country.  
 “Pakistan has a long history of feeling like the U.S. has
abandoned it, favored India, has not been a consistent ally,”
said  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies, a nonpartisan research group in
Washington.  
 “Many Pakistanis associate the violence in Pakistan with
the U.S. presence and the Afghan war,” Cordesman said. Those
attitudes are reinforced by nationalistic media and hard-line
religious groups and because Pakistanis have yet to feel the
effects of U.S. aid, Cordesman said.  
 ‘Legacy of Suspicion’  
 Clinton, during her visit to Pakistan, acknowledged a
“legacy of suspicion” among Pakistanis. It is “not going to
disappear overnight,” she said.  
 The U.S. is “committed for the long haul” to working with
Pakistanis “as you pursue this very difficult struggle,” she
said July 19 after talks with Pakistani officials.  
 The Pakistani survey is part of the larger Pew Global
Attitudes project conducted in 22 nations.  
 Pew said its survey was based on face-to-face interviews
with 2,000 Pakistanis conducted from April 13 to April 28 in all
four provinces of the country. Areas of instability, accounting
for roughly 16 percent of the population, were not polled. The
margin of error was plus or minus three percentage points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        