-- OZ Minerals Working `Around Clock' to Add to Copper Assets, Burgess Says
-- Jason Scott
-- 2010-07-29T04:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/oz-minerals-working-around-clock-to-add-to-copper-assets-burgess-says.html

          
          
             OZ Minerals Ltd. , which operates
the A$1.2 billion ($1.07 billion) Prominent Hill mine in
Australia, wants to add copper assets to give it a second source
of production.  
 “We have a business development team who are working
around the clock to identify these opportunities,” Chief
Executive Officer  Terry Burgess  said today at a briefing in
Sydney. Melbourne-based OZ has looked at three or four projects
in great detail, Burgess said, without identifying them.  
 Demand for copper is increasing, with the three-month
London Metal Exchange price trading 32 percent higher than a
year ago. OZ Minerals, which this month used part of the A$1.1
billion cash on its balance sheet at the end of 2009 to buy a 19
percent stake in Sandfire Resources NL for A$100 million, on
July 15 approved a A$135 million underground development at
Prominent Hill.  
 OZ is “content” with the size of its stake in Sandfire,
which gives it a slice of the De Grussa project in Western
Australia’s Mid-West region, Burgess said.  
 “We have been asked why we didn’t take over the whole
company,” Burgess said. “While there are always strategic
reasons that are difficult to go into, I liken our approach
here to a marathon or a half marathon, not a 200-meter sprint.”  
 OZ  shares gained 2.5 percent to A$1.22 cents at 2:33 p.m.
in Sydney.  
 Demand for copper may decline as China, the world’s
biggest user, shows signs of slowing down, Burgess said, citing
a recent visit to the country.  
 “For the first time since I have been visiting China, I
came back with a view that there may be a slowing of the
economy there which could affect demand,” he said, according
to a transcript of his speech filed to the Australian stock
exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        