-- Heavy Rains Hinder Search Efforts After Pakistan's Deadliest Air Disaster
-- Khurrum Anis
-- 2010-07-29T11:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/pakistan-pledges-public-report-as-deadliest-plane-crash-kills-152-onboard.html

          
          
             Heavy rain in  Pakistan  slowed down a
search operation after an Airbus SAS jetliner crashed into a
forested hillside in Islamabad yesterday, killing all 152 people
aboard in the deadliest air disaster within the nation.  
 An inquiry team set up by Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  will resume the search for black-box flight recorders
tomorrow, Mubarak Shah, a spokesman for the Civil Aviation
Authority, said by telephone from Islamabad. Rescue workers have
handed over 58 bodies to the victims’ families after
identification, said Amir Siddique, a spokesman for the National
Disaster Management Authority, a government agency.  
 Airblue  flight ED202 was flying to  Benazir Bhutto
International Airport , which serves Islamabad and the adjacent
city of Rawalpindi, from Karachi, when it crashed amid monsoon
rains that brought low clouds into the heavily wooded Margalla
Hills. There were 146 passengers and six crew members on board
when the plane went down in Pakistan’s first fatal air crash in
four years.  
 The A321 airliner hit a rocky ridge at 9:45 a.m. and
tumbled into a ravine about 6 kilometers (3.5 miles) from the
offices of President  Asif Ali Zardari . The crash site is
accessible only by narrow hiking trails and rescuers explored
the woods for several hours to determine that no one aboard had
survived.  
 Previous Crashes  
 Pakistan’s previous deadliest air accident killed 54 people
in 1989, when a Fokker F-27 operated by state-owned  Pakistan
International Airlines Corp.  crashed in the Karakoram Mountains,
according to a  database  on the Aviation Safety Network website.
A PIA Airbus A300 crashed in Nepal in 1992, killing all 167
aboard, the database shows.  
 The aircraft had no technical faults, Airblue spokesman
Raheel Ahmed told reporters in Karachi yesterday. “The weather
was bad but not below parameters,” he said. The pilot had 35
years and 25,000 flying hours of experience, he said.  
 Airblue, Pakistan’s second-biggest carrier by market share,
began flying in 2004, and has been the most successful of at
least a half-dozen  private carriers  founded since the 1990s,
when Pakistan allowed competitors to Pakistan International. Its
owners include its chairman, Tariq Chaudhry, and CEO  Shahid Khaqan Abbasi , a former Pakistan Airline chief executive. Ahmed
declined to say whether others own shares.  
 “Airblue commands a lot of respect in the aviation
industry and its financial performance won’t be affected,” said
Khalid Iqbal, a retired air force pilot and former chief
executive of Shaheen Air, a private airline.  
 Terrorism Unlikely  
 Terrorism is unlikely to have caused the crash, said
Siddique of the National Disaster Management Authority. Prime
Minister Gilani and members of his cabinet took an aerial tour
of the crash site yesterday and announced a national day of
mourning today.  
 The aircraft was built in 2000 and was leased to Airblue in
2006, according to an e-mailed  statement  from Toulouse, France-
based Airbus. It had made about 13,500 flights and was fitted
with engines built by International Aero Engines, a venture
backed by United Technology Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney, Rolls-Royce
Group Plc, Japanese Aero Engine Corp. and MTU Aero Engines
Holding AG.  
 Pakistan last suffered a fatal air crash in July 2006 when
a PIA Fokker F-27 had engine problems and struck a power line
after taking off from Multan in Punjab province, according to
the Aviation Safety Network Website. The crash killed 45 people,
the database said.  
 Pakistan has a category 1 safety rating from the U.S.’s
 Federal Aviation Administration , meaning it meets international
standards.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pakistani rescue workers search for survivors in wreckage of a crashed passenger plane at The Margalla Hills on the outskirts of Islamabad on July 28, 2010. Photographer: Adil Khan/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
