-- Panamericano Finds U.S. Yields More Alluring Than Potential Higher Rating
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-07-29T22:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/panamericano-finds-u-s-yields-more-alluring-than-potential-higher-rating.html

          
          
             Banco Panamericano SA  found the
lowest U.S. Treasury yields in 15 months more alluring than the
potential for a credit rating upgrade in selling its second
international bond this year.  
 The Brazilian bank controlled by media magnate  Silvio Santos  sold bonds due in 2015 at a yield of 5.625 percent, 386
basis points, or 3.86 percentage points, over comparable
maturity U.S. notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Moody’s Investors Service said in December it may raise the
company’s credit rating from  Ba2 . An increase of two levels to
investment grade may cause the yield gap between Panamericano’s
bonds and U.S. notes to narrow to 181, based on comparable-rated
Banco do Brasil SA debt.  
 Brazilian companies are finding the combination of the
lowest U.S. inflation rate in 44 years and the benchmark Federal
Reserve interest rate near zero are too good to pass up.
Corporate borrowers in Brazil have raised $19.5 billion in
overseas markets this year, up from $6.6 billion a year ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “They didn’t want to lose the window,” said  Vinicius Pasquarelli , an emerging-market debt trader in New York for
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., a unit of Lausanne,
Switzerland-based Compagnie Financiere Tradition SA, the fifth-
largest inter-dealer broker by market value. Treasury yields are
“way too low” to pass up, he said.  
 U.S. Rally  
 Panamericano, based in Sao Paulo, offered the debt after
yields on five-year Treasuries tumbled 77 basis points from
three months ago to 1.71 percent. The rally in U.S. Treasuries
has been led by investors seeking longer-term securities as
inflation excluding food and energy prices held at a 44-year low
since April.  
 Panamericano’s $500 million of subordinated notes due in
2020 traded at yields of 7.58 percent at 5:37 p.m. New York
time, down from 8.625 percent when they were issued in April,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The timing of Panamericano’s senior bond sale may indicate
the bank expects a credit upgrade will be delayed, said  Natalia Corfield , a corporate debt analyst at ING Groep NV in New York.  
 “It doesn’t make any sense to sell now unless they expect
the upgrade to take longer,” she said. “If the bank would be
investment grade it would have priced below that.”  
 Panamericano decided to come to market this week to take
advantage of investor demand after the European debt crisis
shuttered international markets earlier this year, said  Calman Moricz , investor relations manager for the bank in Sao Paulo.  
 “The markets are very hot now, depending on what happens
internationally, either you have funds or you don’t,” Moricz
said in a telephone interview.  “It’s not a window that’s there
for twelve months of the year. You take advantage of it.”  
 Maria Celina Vansetti , the head of Latin American bank
research at Moody’s in New York, said the company raised its
outlook on Panamericano to positive after the bank announced
plans to sell a stake to state-run  Caixa Economica Federal .  
 ‘Very Bullish’  
 “We noticed that the market has been very bullish about
the participation of Caixa Economica,” she said. “We need to
understand the extent of the support because that’s what would
lift the deposit ratings.”  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to own government dollar
bonds over Treasuries shrank one basis points to 206 today.  
 The yield gap on Brazilian corporate dollar bonds instead
of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 311 basis points yesterday,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index.  
 The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps fell three
basis points to 116.5, according to data compiled by CMA
DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 Debt Auction  
 The real gained 0.6 percent to 1.7580 per dollar, reducing
its decline this year to 0.8 percent today. The yield on
Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in January, the most
active in Sao Paulo trading, fell one basis point to 10.82
percent.  
 Brazil plans to sell today as many as 2 million NTN-F notes
maturing in 2014 and 2021 and as many as 7.5 million LTN bills
maturing in April 2011 and July 2012, according to a statement
posted on the Treasury website.  
 Panamericano bonds lagged behind the rest of Brazilian
company debt in the past month as Moody’s disappointed investors
by failing to lift Panamericano’s rating, Corfield said. The
yield on the notes climbed 9 basis points compared with a 12
basis point decrease for the average yield on Brazilian
corporate debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
JPMorgan.  
 ‘Looking Expensive’  
 “Panamericano was looking expensive, even with the
investor expectations that it was going to become investment
grade, and with the upgrade not coming some people might have
decided to take profit,” said Corfield.  
 The Brazilian central bank approved Caixa’s purchase on
July 19, Banco Panamericano said in a statement dated July 20.
Sao Paulo-based Caixa, rated Baa3 by Moody’s, said it will pay
739 million reais ($395 million) for the stake.  
 Investors may drive Panamericano’s bonds lower should the
bank not receive a credit rating upgrade in the next month,
ING’s Corfield said.  
 “If this upgrade starts to take long we can see further
corrections in the price,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net 
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        