-- Panasonic Offers $9.4 Billion to Buy Out Two Units
-- Mariko Yasu
-- 2010-07-29T10:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/panasonic-offers-9-4-billion-to-buy-out-sanyo-electric-electric-works.html

          
          
             Panasonic Corp. , the world’s largest
maker of rechargeable batteries, offered to buy out  Sanyo
Electric Co.  and  Panasonic Electric Works Co.  for 818.4 billion
yen ($9.4 billion) to help expand its renewable energy business.  
 Panasonic, which may sell as much as 500 billion yen of new
stock to fund the deal, offered 138 yen for each Sanyo share it
doesn’t own and 1,110 yen for every Electric Works stock, the
Osaka-based company said in  statement  today. That’s 17 percent
and 14 percent more than their July 28 closing prices. The units
surged above the offer in Tokyo trading today.  
 The purchases would build on President  Fumio Ohtsubo ’s
plans to expand business such as solar panels amid mounting
competition from  Samsung Electronics Co.  and Sony Corp. in
televisions. Panasonic fell the most in more than a year in
Tokyo trading on concern the cost of the purchase may strain a
company reeling from two years of losses.  
 “Panasonic faces fierce competition from Samsung and Sony
in consumer electronics,”  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based analyst
at Barclays Capital. “Its rivals are not as competitive in the
energy-related products and household electrics systems that
Panasonic aims to strengthen.”  
 Sanyo jumped 26 percent to close at 149 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange and  Panasonic Electric Works  climbed 15 percent
to 1,124 yen after the Nikkei newspaper reported the buyout
plans earlier. Panasonic, the world’s largest maker of plasma
TVs, declined 7.7 percent to close at 1,077 yen.  
 The maker of Viera TVs expects the buyouts to add 60
billion yen to Panasonic’s annual operating profit, Ohtsubo said
at a briefing in Osaka today.  
 Largest Acquisition  
 The combined acquisitions would be the largest in Japan
this year, according to Bloomberg data. Panasonic owned 50
percent of Sanyo and 51 percent of Electric Works as of today,
according to the statement.  
 The offer, which will start on Aug. 23 and complete on Oct.
6, values  Sanyo  at 51 times estimated earnings for the year
ending March 2011 and almost 36 times estimated profit at
Electric Works, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. By comparison, companies on the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average trade at a multiple of  18 , according to Bloomberg data.  
 Some shareholders said the offer is too low.  
 “There is no way we would accept this offer,”  Huy Hoang ,
a fund manager at HDH Capital Management Pte, which owns 1.4
million shares of Sanyo, wrote in an e-mail. “Panasonic is
trying to time the market and take advantage of minority
shareholders.”  
 Share Swap  
 Shareholders of Sanyo and Electric Works have the option of
accepting the parent’s offer or taking Panasonic shares,
according to the statement. The company plans to complete the
purchase by around April next year, it said.  
 Under Japanese law, a company that acquires at least two-
thirds of a target through a tender offer can force minority
shareholders to give up their holdings through a share swap,
said Masaji Hashimoto, a lawyer at Atsumi & Partners in Tokyo.  
 The maker of Lumix cameras today  raised  its full-year net
income forecast to 85 billion yen from a previous projection of
50 billion yen. The company also increased its estimate for
operating profit by 24 percent to 310 billion yen.  
 In 2008, Panasonic agreed to buy a controlling stake in
Sanyo from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Daiwa Securities Group Inc.
and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. Panasonic completed its
offer for Sanyo in December last year after clearance from
antitrust regulators in the U.S., Europe, Japan and China.  
 Sanyo was the largest maker of rechargeable batteries in
the year ended March 2009, followed by Sony, South Korea’s
 Samsung SDI Co. , Panasonic, China’s BYD Co. and LG Chem Ltd.,
according to estimates at Japan Economic Center Co. Panasonic
and Sanyo accounted for a combined 43 percent of the market,
according the Tokyo-based researcher.  
 Uniting Panasonic  
 Panasonic said it plans to combine the three companies’
brands, though Sanyo’s name may continue to be used in some
regions. The three companies will unite and slim down their
operations to start a new business structure in January 2012,
Panasonic said.  
 Panasonic Electric Works, the unit that makes lighting
systems, electrical wiring fittings such as wall sockets and
electronic materials used in chips, became an affiliate in 1935
and split as a separate entity in 1945.  
 Panasonic, Japan’s biggest maker of home appliances, paid
146 billion yen for a majority stake in the lighting unit in a
tender offer in 2003.  
 Nomura Holdings Inc. advised Panasonic on the latest deal,
while Abeam M&A Consulting advised Sanyo and Daiwa Securities
Group Inc. advised Electric Works.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Fumio Ohtsubo, president of Panasonic Corp. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  M&A Snapshot
         
     
 



 
     
         
             Chart:  M&A Snapshot
         
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
