-- PartyGaming to Take Control of Bwin in $1.76 Billion Deal
-- Zoe Schneeweiss
-- 2010-07-29T16:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/partygaming-bwin-merge-to-create-world-s-biggest-online-gambling-company.html

          
          
             PartyGaming Plc  plans to acquire
 Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG  in a reverse takeover valued
at about 1.13 billion pounds ($1.76 billion) to create the
world’s biggest publicly traded online gambling company.  
 The merged company, which had reported net gaming sales 
of 682 million euros, will be 51.6 percent owned by Vienna-
based Bwin, with PartyGaming of Gibraltar holding the rest, 
the companies said in a statement today. The new company would
be listed in London and have leading positions in online poker,
sports betting, casino and games such as bingo, they said.  
 “From an industrial point of view this is both an
offensive and a defensive move,” said  Gianmarco Bonacina , an
analyst with Equita SIM SpA in Milan. “In Europe, Bwin and
PartyGaming are losing market share in poker versus Pokerstars
and Fulltilt, so the combination will protect them. In the U.S.,
the move is offensive. They want to attack that market and are
in a better position if they combine.”  
 The transaction reflects pressure faced by gaming companies
as competition intensifies with the opening of markets in Europe
and the U.S. Governments are starting to allow online gambling
companies outside their borders to offer services in domestic
markets and bring currently illegal acts under the umbrella of
taxation and regulation.  
 PartyGaming  shares rose  20 percent, the most since December
2008, to close at 309.5 pence at 4:30 p.m. in London. Bwin rose
18 percent, the most since March 2000, to 42 euros at 5:30 p.m.
in Vienna.  
 Market Opening  
 Online gambling in “offshore” markets, in which some
companies may have customers in countries with official bans,
expanded more than 10-fold between 2003 and 2010 to about 6.5
billion euros, according to figures from H2 Gambling Capital, a
Manchester, England-based consulting firm.  
 The U.S., Canada, Denmark, France, Italy, Ireland and Spain
are among countries revising online gambling rules.  
 “We will immediately be a leader in these markets as they
open up,” PartyGaming Chief Executive Officer  Jim Ryan  told
reporters on a conference call today.  
 Under the terms of the transaction, Bwin shareholders will
get 12.23 PartyGaming shares for each of their shares. Based on
PartyGaming’s closing share price of 257 pence yesterday, the
transaction is valued at 1.13 billion pounds.  
 Although the deal gives Bwin shareholders a majority stake
in the combined company, it involves the transfer of all the
Austrian company’s assets and liabilities to PartyGaming. The
companies will form a joint stock company in Gibraltar in what
will be a reverse takeover of Bwin by PartyGaming.  
 In Favor  
 The boards of the two companies intend to unanimously ask
shareholders to vote in favor of the deal, the statement said.  
 “It’s a mega-merger,” said  Warwick Bartlett , chief
executive officer of Isle of Man-based Global Betting and Gaming
Consultants. “Both companies will probably be able to get
better economies of scale in marketing, and marketing is one of
the biggest costs for online gambling companies.”  
 Bwin and PartyGaming will hold shareholder meetings in the
first quarter of 2011 and expect the merger to be completed
shortly after that. The merged company is likely to have a new
name and will seek readmission to the London market, Ryan said.  
 The merger has the support of 28.5 percent of PartyGaming’s
share capital and 14.4 percent of Bwin’s.  Hannes Androsch ,
chairman of Bwin’s supervisory board and its  biggest
shareholder , said he favors the deal. He owns less than 10
percent of Bwin and will get under 5 percent of the new company.  
 Profit Enhancing  
 Ryan and  Norbert Teufelberger , Bwin’s co-CEO, would be co-
CEOs of the new company, while  Manfred Bodner  will be a non-
executive director.  
 The merger will be “significantly” earnings-enhancing
from the first year following completion and account for about
55 million euros in annual savings, the companies said.  
 The deal is subject to approval by at least 75 percent of
the shareholders of the two companies and regulatory and
antitrust clearances.  
 Global online gross gaming yields outside the U.S. grew to
13.9 billion euros last year from 3.4 billion euros in 2003, the
companies said. It is set to reach about 20 billion euros in
2012, they said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Altaner  in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net ;
 Zoe Schneeweiss  in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Left to right: Manfred Bodner, co-chief executive officer of Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG, Jim Ryan, chief executive officer of PartyGaming Plc, Martin Weigold, finance director of PartyGaming Plc and Norbert Teufelberger, co-chief executive officer of Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG. Source: PartyGaming via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     From left; Manfred Bodner, co-chief executive officer of Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG, Jim Ryan, chief executive officer of PartyGaming Plc, Martin Weigold, finance director of PartyGaming Plc and Norbert Teufelberger, co-chief executive officer of Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG. Source: PartyGaming via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
