-- BP May Sell Venezuela Oil Stakes to Russian TNK-BP Venture
-- Stephen Bierman
-- 2010-07-29T12:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/pdvsa-says-bp-may-sell-venezuelan-project-stakes-to-russian-tnk-bp-venture.html

          
          
             BP Plc  has told Venezuela’s state
oil company it’s interested in selling stakes in three projects
to its Russian venture, TNK-BP, Petroleos de Venezuela SA Vice
President  Eulogio del Pino  said.  
 BP needs the Venezuelan government’s approval to begin
negotiations on the proposed sale, del Pino said in a mobile
phone text message. BP, seeking to overcome cleanup costs and
liabilities from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill disaster, didn’t
indicate a value for the assets, he said late yesterday.  
 “We received a letter from BP raising the possibility of
transferring its stakes of 16.66 percent in Petromonagas and its
minority stakes” in two further ventures to TNK-BP, he said.  
 BP said July 27 it plans to dispose of as much as $30
billion in assets in the next 18 months, after reporting a
record second-quarter loss because of the costs of the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill. BP is in talks with TNK-BP over the sale of a
$1 billion package of Venezuelan projects, the Times reported
earlier today, without saying where it got the information.  
 “TNK-BP views this as an opportunity to further develop
its international business portfolio and expand its presence in
Venezuela,” TNK-BP spokesman  Nikolay Gorelov  said by e-mail
today.  
 The Moscow-based company, which is half owned by BP,
supports moves by the U.K. company to “strategically realign”
its asset base in Venezuela and is examining the opportunity,
Gorelov said.  
 ‘Highest Price’  
 “Both companies may lose as a result of such a deal,”
said  Alexander Nazarov , a Moscow-based analyst with IFC
Metropol. “BP needs to get the highest price for its assets.
TNK-BP would be seeking a considerable discount from BP, being a
BP associate. Moreover, the deal would be subject for a close
consideration by regulative authorities, as a related party
transaction.”  
 Vladimir Buyanov , a BP spokesman based in Moscow, said the
company wasn’t commenting on its divestment plans.  
 BP said last week that it sold $7 billion of assets in the
U.S., Canada and Egypt to Apache Corp. It also plans to sell
holdings in Pakistan and Vietnam. BP may revive the sale of
fields in Alaska after they failed to make it into the Apache
deal, two people with knowledge of the matter said last week.  
 “TNK-BP would have no problem” paying about $1 billion
dollars for new assets, said  Svetlana Grizan , a Moscow-based
analyst with VTB Capital.  
 Heavy Oil  
 In Venezuela, BP has stakes in the Petroperija and Boqueron
oil fields and the Petromonagas heavy oil-upgrading project,
which produces 110,000 barrels of oil a day, according to BP’s
 website . Petroperija and Boqueron produce a combined 19,500
barrels a day, according to  PDVSA’s website.   
 The largest, Petromonagas, was formerly known as Cerro
Negro and was operated by  Exxon Mobil Corp.  It includes wells,
pipelines and an upgrader to convert tar-like crude into lighter
synthetic crude.  
 Venezuela took over the project on May 1, 2007 along with
other privately operated oil ventures as part of a
nationalization drive by President  Hugo Chavez . Exxon demanded
about $5 billion in compensation for the project, according to
Venezuela’s ambassador to the U.S. at the time,  Bernardo Alvarez .  
 Morgan Stanley and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc may be
involved in BP’s negotiations with TNK-BP,  the London-based
Times  said in its report.  
 Hayward’s Job  
 The Gulf of Mexico disaster has cost  Tony Hayward  his job
as BP’s chief executive officer. He will be replaced Oct. 1 by
 Robert Dudley , who was forced to leave Russia two years ago in a
battle for control of the 50-50 venture with the company’s
billionaire shareholders.  
 BP plans to nominate Hayward as a non-executive director of
TNK-BP, the U.K. producer said July 27. He will also remain on
the BP board until Nov. 30.  
 TNK-BP shareholder  German Khan  said July 27 he had
congratulated Dudley on his appointment. “We also welcome the
possibility that Tony Hayward will be named to the board of TNK-
BP,” Khan said. “We think he’s a highly qualified specialist
and was the victim of a subjective situation.”  
 Moscow-based TNK-BP accounts for about a quarter of BP’s
production, a fifth of reserves and about a tenth of earnings.
In 2008, TNK-BP’s partner AAR, a group of companies owned by
Khan,  Mikhail Fridman ,  Viktor Vekselberg  and  Len Blavatnik ,
called for Dudley’s ouster in a dispute over strategy at
Russia’s third-biggest oil company, alleging he ignored their
interests. Dudley denied the charge.  
 Reducing Debt  
 BP reported a record $17.2 billion second-quarter loss on
July 27. It is  reducing its debt  to as little as $10 billion in
the next 18 months after cutting it by $5 billion to $23.2
billion last quarter from a year earlier.  
 To raise funds for President  Barack Obama ’s $20 billion
spill fund and shore up investor confidence, BP last month
canceled the $10 billion dividend for three quarters and said it
would reduce investment to raise funds. BP has spent $4 billion
on the spill response so far, and analysts say the total bill is
likely to be about $33 billion, according to the median of 11
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jose Orozco  in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
 Natalie Obiko Pearson  in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Storage tanks sit elevated at the Petroleos de Venezuela SA, PDVSA, Amuay refinery in northern Venezuela. Source: PDVSA via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
