-- Pelosi Trades Rangel for Chance in Midterms: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-07-29T01:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/pelosi-trades-rangel-for-chance-in-midterms-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             How could the canny Charlie Rangel
let it come to this, chased by reporters from here to Harlem
hammering him about what he’s going to do about allegations that
he misused his office?  
 Suddenly everyone is mad at Rangel, the  New York  Democrat
beloved within his party, for not making a deal. How could he be
so stubborn? Why isn’t he making it all go away? Colleagues are
returning money he raised for them and reconsidering whether to
attend his 81st birthday bash. Members are fond of Rangel but
fonder of re-election, which may hinge, at last, on ethics.  
 Rangel was lulled into his current predicament by counting
on the House ethics committee to be its usual wimpy self.
Traditionally, the committee is a path to avoid paying for
transgressions.  
 The last time the committee ordered a trial was 2002, for
Ohio Democrat James Traficant, known for his comical toupee,
flamboyant style and flagrant abuse of the rules. He wound up in
prison, convicted in 2002 of accepting bribes, evading taxes and
forcing his staffers to give him kickbacks on their salaries. It
says much about Traficant -- but also a little about the
standing of Congress -- that after being released last year, he
tried launching a bid to for his old seat.  
 Rangel’s misbehavior wasn’t close to Traficant’s. Rangel is
accused of violating House rules, such as using official
stationery for personal business, as he did to solicit donations
for a  center  named after him at  City College  of New York.  
 Buying Time  
 When allegations emerged involving corporate-sponsored
trips, his use of four rent-stabilized apartments in  Manhattan 
and failure to pay taxes on rental income, Rangel, as so many
before him, bought himself time by asking the committee to
investigate.  
 Then a funny thing happened. The drag-it-out strategy
carried the case right into midterm-election season. And the
committee didn’t fold. Instead, Rangel now finds himself the
poster child for Democrats doing what they said they would do --
end the culture of corruption -- before voters have their say in
November. And unlike those before him, Rangel encountered
resistance when he tried to bargain his troubles down to a teeny
tiny misdemeanor.  
 Former House Majority Leader  Tom DeLay , Republican of  Texas ,
was twice admonished by the ethics committee in 2004. But it
wasn’t until 2006, while under indictment on charges of
illegally using corporate donations in state races, that he
resigned from Congress. He has never been tried on the charges,
which he calls politically motivated, and was last seen spinning
around in high-heel samba shoes on “Dancing with the Stars.”  
 Snooze on Rules  
 At least the ethics committee gave signs of being awake in
the DeLay matter. By contrast, it slept through the rather
amazing case of California Republican Representative Randy “Duke” Cunningham, who flagrantly ignored House rules. He was
prosecuted and imprisoned for living on a yacht subsidized by
defense contractors who also took his house, furnished with an
expensive commode, off his hands at an inflated price.  
 If Democrats, in charge of the House since 2007, had proven
themselves significantly more ethical than Republicans, Rangel
would be better off. Instead, Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , who famously
promised to “drain the swamp” -- the blue one as well as the
red -- got off to a shaky start.  
 She protected her good friend, Pennsylvania Democrat John Murtha, who died before a raft of serious charges, including
sending a defense contract to a company employing his nephew,
could catch up to him. Shockingly, she tried to give Louisiana
Democrat William Jefferson a seat on the Homeland Security
Committee even after the release of photos of $90,000 in cash
tucked inside containers of Pillsbury Pie Crust and Boca Burger
in his house. He would later be convicted of 11 counts of
racketeering and bribery.  
 Lost Gavel  
 Rangel suffered real punishment when he gave up his
chairmanship of the Ways and Means Committee in March, and he
has made other concessions. He acknowledged “bookkeeping”
errors and put his staff to work getting straight his financial
disclosures and paying taxes on rental incomes from his villa in
the  Dominican Republic .  
 He has his excuses on other charges, not the least of which
is that everybody does it:  
 Other members were also on the corporate-sponsored trip to
the Caribbean, and his staff handled his paperwork. He would
have supported preserving a tax loophole for oil driller Nabors
Industries even if its chief executive hadn’t contributed $1
million to the Charles B. Rangel Public Service Center at City
College. As for having to report the savings from a rent-
stabilized apartment, since when is gaming the high rents in
Manhattan a reportable gift?  
 Need for Scalp  
 This might have worked before Congress sunk to its 11
percent approval rating in the run-up to what will be a brutal
election for incumbents. Democrats need a scalp to prove they’re
different from Republicans, that the culture of corruption has
stopped with them, that members will play by the rules or else.  
 At times defiant, snapping at reporters to get their facts
straight, and at other times admitting the whole thing has been
“traumatic,” Rangel still labors under the old regime, when
friends didn’t judge friends lest they be judged.  
 I say sacrifice Rangel if it means entering a true age of
accountability, in which all similar transgressions are
similarly punished. But not if this is just election-year
posturing.  
 This looks like situational ethics, the situation being that
Republicans are licking their chops at the prospect of another
minor hand-slap for ethical transgressions. In hopes of saving
the many, Pelosi is willing to give up the one.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        