-- Pelosi Plugs Into Silicon Valley for Policies, Cash (Update1)
-- James Rowley
-- 2010-07-29T18:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/pelosi-plugs-into-silicon-valley-confidants-for-policy-feedback-donations.html

          
          
             In two weeks, Nancy Pelosi and her
husband, Paul, will host a two-day retreat at a Mediterranean-
style inn in Napa Valley, just down the street from the
legendary French Laundry restaurant. The guests, as in years
past, will include some of her biggest benefactors and some of
the most prominent names in corporate California; often they are
one and the same.  
 The financier Bill Hambrecht, who helped Apple Inc. and
Google Inc. go public, usually attends the annual conference, as
do Charles Geschke, the co-founder of San Jose-based Adobe
Systems Inc., and George Marcus, the chairman of the Palo Alto-
based commercial real-estate developer Essex Property Trust Inc.
The retreat is part thank-you, part intellectual gabfest. Last
year’s theme was the economy; guests were briefed by White House
adviser David Axelrod.  
 Foes have long called Pelosi “bad for business,” but
she’s not the anti-business ideologue of the typical Republican
caricature, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Aug. 2 issue.
She regularly seeks out corporate leaders for their take on the
economy and talks frequently with Bay Area business titans such
as Eric Schmidt, the chief executive officer of Google. Her
brain trust includes numerous chief executives and venture
capitalists.  
 ‘Supportive’  
 “I have found her to be supportive of Silicon Valley and
the entire technology industry and always open to a healthy
give-and-take on key issues,” says Cisco Systems Inc. CEO John
Chambers, who helped Pelosi develop an innovation agenda in 2005
that included a permanent research and development tax credit,
education funding, and universal broadband access. She even
counts some Republicans in her network.  
 Many of these unofficial advisers are her biggest donors,
and the policies she advocates often benefit their industries.
To hear Pelosi, 70, tell it, she’s sowing the seeds of an
economic revival that wouldn’t be possible without a big nudge
from the government. Her state’s high-tech and clean-energy
industries could benefit from that push, as could the rest of
America, she says.  
 ‘Have to Compete’  
 “We don’t have any choice. We have to compete,” Pelosi
said in a July 14 interview with Bloomberg Businessweek. “These
other countries have made their decision,” she said, referring
to China and Europe, where governments have plowed billions into
renewable fuels such as wind and solar. “We had an Industrial
Revolution, we had the Technological Revolution, and the Green
Revolution,” Pelosi said. “Are we going to check out of this?
I don’t think so.”  
 Pelosi is unabashedly liberal, supporting higher taxes for
the wealthy and government competition in health care to lower
costs to consumers. She tried and failed to charge financial
firms for the Wall Street overhaul.  
 These views have made her a favorite target of Republicans,
who say policies she has helped push into law cost the economy
jobs. They argue that she picks winners and losers by heaping
new regulations on existing industries while setting aside
taxpayer funds for chosen sectors such as renewable energy and
biotech.  
 “Her agenda has added 500,000 government jobs and lost 2.5
million free-enterprise-sector jobs,” says Representative Pete
Sessions of Texas, who chairs the House Republicans’ campaign
committee.  
 Pelosi spokesman Brendan Daly, in disputing such claims,
cited Bureau of Labor Statistics figures showing that the U.S.
economy added 600,000 private-sector jobs this year, including
83,000 in June. Daly said the figures show that the U.S. economy
lost a net 670,000 jobs during eight years of Republican George
W. Bush’s presidency.  
 Legacy as Speaker  
 Judging by the legislation she’s gotten through with few,
if any, Republican votes, Pelosi is arguably the most effective
speaker since Sam Rayburn, the Texas Democrat who served on-and-
off in that role for 16 years between 1940 and 1961. Some
Democrats facing tough re-election contests in November say she
is, perhaps, too successful. Last year, when vulnerable members
balked at voting to cap carbon emissions, she and the
administration said Senate Democrats would follow the House’s
lead, allowing lawmakers to boast they had slowed global warming
and reduced dependence on foreign oil. The Senate never voted,
and some House Democrats are unhappy that they must defend a
vote that their Republican challengers say would have raised
homeowners’ energy bills.  
 Venture Capitalists  
 Listen to her long enough, and Pelosi starts to sound like
the venture capitalists in her circle, which includes Silicon
Valley pioneers such as Hambrecht and John Doerr of Menlo Park-
based Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, who also helped with
early funding for Cupertino-based Apple and Mountain View-based
Google. She chats frequently with Chambers, of San Jose-based
Cisco; he and Doerr are not among her donors.  
 Vinod Khosla, the co-founder of Sun Microsystems Inc., says
she invited him to breakfast in 2005 after both spoke at a forum
in Fremont, California. She wanted to pick his brain about
renewable energy and innovation. “She didn’t worry that I was a
Republican,” Khosla says. “She is very open-minded. That
impressed me.” The two have been close since.  
 Such relationships have an obvious benefit for Pelosi, who
raises millions from her corporate confidants. In the years
since Khosla first had breakfast with Pelosi, he and his wife
have given her and the Democratic Congressional Campaign
Committee almost $170,000. Her donors’ companies often benefit
from Pelosi’s advocacy for research tax credits, visas for
engineers, and government funding for clean-energy startups.
Stion, a maker of thin photovoltaic solar cells and backed by
Khosla, received $37.5 million in tax credits through last
year’s economic stimulus measure.  
 Pelosi isn’t shy about asking the tech community for help
in return. “They want H-1B visas for immigration, and we’re
saying ‘help us have a comprehensive immigration reform and we
can help you with that,’” Pelosi said in the interview. “But
we’ve got to do things together.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick O’Connor in Washington at 
 poconnor14@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg Businessweek's Patrick O'Connor talks about House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's ties with corporate leaders in California and donations from these unofficial advisers.
     Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Aug. 2 issue that Pelosi regularly seeks out corporate leaders for their take on the economy and talks frequently with Bay Area business titans such as Eric Schmidt, the chief executive officer of Google. O'Connor speaks with Matt Miller and Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  Pelosi Graphic 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
