-- People's Bank of China Sees `Less Need' to Lift Rates, IMF Says
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-29T17:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/people-s-bank-of-china-sees-less-need-to-lift-interest-rates-imf-says.html

          
          
             China sees little need for an
imminent increase in interest rates, standing apart from Asian
counterparts that are raising borrowing costs as the region
shrug offs risks from advanced economies.  
 People’s Bank of China officials said “that with a benign
 inflation  outlook there was less need for higher nominal
interest rates at this point,” the International Monetary Fund
said in a statement yesterday after annual consultations with
the Chinese government. “Also, they were concerned that higher
interest rates could risk fueling capital inflows.”  
 China views the yuan as “much closer to equilibrium” now
than any time before, the Washington-based lender said. By
contrast, IMF staff concluded the currency is “substantially”
undervalued, and executive directors split on the issue in a
board meeting this week.  
 China has left interest rates unchanged since December
2008, even as countries from Malaysia to Taiwan, South Korea and
India lifted them. Trade reports from the region have indicated
little sign so far that Europe’s budget cuts and U.S.
joblessness are damaging exports.  
 Real interest rates are close to zero and are creating
“perverse incentives” within China,  Nigel Chalk , the IMF’s
mission chief to the country, told reporters yesterday.  
 Over time “real interest rates will have to rise in
combination with a number of other policies” such as financial
development and an appreciation of the currency, he said.  
 The IMF, which provided rescue packages for countries from
Ukraine to Iceland during the global crisis, released its staff
review on China’s economy for the first time since 2006. China
had previously prevented publication of the annual report.  
 Policy Stance  
 President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged last
week to maintain policy stability in the second half of 2010
after measures to rein in  property prices , inflation and bank
lending slowed second-quarter  growth  to 10.3 percent from 11.9
percent in January to March.  
 “At this point in the recovery, there is little evidence
that the upswing in inflation is coming from either binding
capacity constraints, rapid growth in broad monetary aggregates,
or demand pressures,” the IMF said. “Barring an unforeseen
supply shock to food prices, consumer price inflation should
peak in mid-year and begin falling in the second half of 2010.”  
 Chinese policy makers are relying on administrative
measures and credit controls to prevent overheating, with the
central bank forcing lenders to set aside more reserves three
times this year.  
 “Central bank officials indicated that they are fully
committed to a greater use of indirect monetary policy
instruments” to slow credit growth, the IMF said.  
 Yuan Trading  
 The yuan has advanced less than 1 percent against the
dollar since China indicated on June 19 it would scrap the
currency’s two-year-old peg. It closed at 6.78 yesterday.  
 Asia’s second-largest economy has faced pressure to allow
the yuan to rise from U.S. lawmakers, who claim an undervalued
currency gives its exporters an unfair advantage.  
 China’s authorities “indicated that they are prepared to
allow the exchange rate to respond more to the forces of demand
and supply,” the IMF report said. China kept the yuan stable at
about 6.83 per dollar from July 2008 to June 2010, after
allowing it to gain 21 percent in the previous three years.  
 Asked by reporters about drafts of the report before it was
released, Chalk declined to say whether parts of the report
looking into how much the yuan is undervalued were removed
before publication.  
 Eswar Prasad , a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution
and a former head of the China division at the IMF, said that
the IMF report estimates the yuan could be undervalued by 5
percent to 27 percent.  
 The PBOC should avoid letting movements in the yuan be
determined by the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar,
because of the different cyclical conditions in the two
economies, the IMF said.  
 Capital Flows  
 “As China begins to appreciate the renminbi, it will have
to confront the prospect of a surge in inflows aiming to
circumvent the existing capital-control regime,” the fund said.
“Macroeconomic and prudential policies will need to be
attentive to ensuring that such capital flows do not feed rapid
price increases in key asset markets or undermine the steady
progress made over the past several years to improve the health
of the financial system.”  
 The pace of China’s reserves accumulation and the outlook
for China’s current account surplus in coming years suggest to
IMF staff that the yuan is still “substantially” undervalued,
the report said. IMF officials expect the surplus to rise to
about 8 percent of gross domestic product over the next five
years, Chalk said.  
 Chinese officials said the increase in reserves isn’t
“compelling evidence” that the currency is undervalued, adding
that the higher holdings were because of an “unprecedented
expansion” of global liquidity. Foreign exchange reserves in
China climbed to a world-record $2.45 trillion in June.  
 The government also said the  current-account surplus  will
decline “modestly” in coming months and may be at about 4
percent of GDP by the end of 2010. The gap, the broadest measure
of trade, amounted to 6.1 percent of GDP, down from 9.6 percent
in 2008, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange said July
8.  
 Chalk said that the IMF staff and Chinese authorities had
“a difference of view” on the currency and on the prospect of
the current account. Still, he said that there’s “a strong
commitment to a transformation of the economic model” away from
an export- and investment-led one.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hu Jintao, China's president, attends the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) leaders closing lunch, in Singapore. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Nigel Chalk, the International Monetary Fund's mission chief to China, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for the country's currency and central bank monetary policy. 
     People’s Bank of China officials said "that with a benign inflation outlook there was less need for higher nominal interest rates at this point," the IMF said in a statement yesterday after annual consultations with the Chinese government. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
