-- Pete Carroll Returns to NFL After Coaching College Football: Hard Choices
-- Diane Brady
-- 2010-07-29T16:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/pete-carroll-returns-to-nfl-after-coaching-college-football-hard-choices.html

          
          
             Pete Carroll  talks about getting
fired as head coach of the New York Jets and New England
Patriots in the Aug. 2 issue of Bloomberg Businessweek and how
that helped him develop his own coaching style. It eventually
led him to return to coaching in the  National Football League 
with the Seattle Seahawks.  
 “I had been head coach of the New York Jets and the New
England Patriots. In both cases, I was fired. I didn’t know if
anyone would hire me again. I never lost faith in myself, I just
wasn’t sure if others would believe in me.  
 Getting fired made me come up with my own philosophy of
coaching, my own belief system of what it took to win. When I
became head coach of the (University of Southern California)
Trojans, I was given the autonomy to put my philosophy into
practice. Over the next nine years, I had the time of my life.
We built one of the most dominant football programs in the
country -- winning seven straight Pac-10 titles and two national
championships.  
 There was never going to be a good time to leave. It would
have been easier to stay. The fact that we were under
investigation by the NCAA had nothing to do with my decision to
leave. I’ve been dealing with it for five years -- I was numb to
it. The way they come at you, you really do feel you’re guilty
until proven innocent. It’s unfortunate.  
 The NFL is different. That’s all I’ll say. I had been
approached a few times by the NFL over the years, but I never
felt there was the right setting to support my approach. Seattle
allowed me that.  
 The most difficult thing was saying goodbye to the kids. I
could probably never enjoy any place more than USC. I was happy
there, but the level of seriousness in the NFL is different from
college. It’s the highest level of competition, the most
difficult, and therefore also the most rewarding.  
 Some people said I was crazy to leave, but in my heart I
knew I wanted the challenge of competing at that level again.
There’s no question that the years of working at USC gave me the
confidence to coach differently this time around.  
 If you structure your life around a relentless pursuit of
the competitive edge -- always competing to be the best you can
be -- you’ll win in sports, or business, or parenting, or any
other situation. I have a much better sense of my own belief
system than the last time I coached in the NFL.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diane Brady  in New York at 
 dbrady11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        