-- Philippine Exchange's New President to Go `Full Blast' on REIT Share Sales
-- Ian Sayson
-- 2010-07-29T03:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/philippine-exchange-s-new-president-to-go-full-blast-on-reit-share-sales.html

          
          
             Philippine Stock Exchange Inc.  will
go “full blast” in pushing for the listing of property trusts
to boost trading in one of Asia’s smallest stock markets, said
 Val Suarez , who was named the bourse’s president yesterday.  
 The introduction of real estate investment trusts will help
the exchange face its “biggest challenge” of broadening the
stock market’s investor base, Suarez said, and a number of
developers are set to sell shares of REITs when a proposal on
tax incentives is approved by the government.  
 The benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  has risen 13
percent this year, the third-best performer among Asia Pacific’s
12 biggest equities markets, and the average value of trades has
risen by 14 percent as borrowing costs stayed at a record low
and economic growth is forecast to accelerate.  
 “I’d like to go full blast on the listings of REITs in my
first year,” Suarez, who’s also appointed the bourse’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview in Manila late
yesterday. “REITs would bring in more investors and improve the
stock market’s breadth and depth.”  
 The Philippines’ largest builders said they have appointed
bankers to help plan for REITs, which typically group properties
like office buildings and malls that generate rental income.
 Ayala Land Inc. , the nation’s biggest developer, is targeting
$300 million from selling shares in REITs, Chief Financial
Officer  Jaime Ysmael  said in an interview on July 27, while  SM
Prime Holdings Inc. , the largest shopping mall operator, is
seeking $500 million, Chief Financial Officer  Jeffrey Lim  said.  
 ‘Positive Development’  
 “The introduction of REITs is a positive development for
the Philippine stock market and will certainly help grow the
investor base,” said  Allan Yu , who helps manage about $3.5
billion at Manila-based Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. “REITs
appeal to both fixed-income and equities investors.”  
 The introduction of REITs, which needs at least 1,000
shareholders based on the proposed law, will also help the
exchange bring in more investors within the Philippines, Suarez
said. About 2 percent of the nation’s 90 million people are
invested in equities and “active stock investors” make up less
than 1 percent of the population, he said.  
 “Over the long term, I would like to see taxi drivers
having investments in stocks,” said Suarez, 51, who joined the
exchange in January and was chief operating officer and senior
vice president.  
 REITs may boost the valuation of property stocks,  Francisco Sebastian , president at Manila-based First Metro Investment
Corp., said in an interview in Manila this week.  
 Valuation Gap  
 The  Philippine Stock Exchange Property Index  has climbed 17
percent this year on expectations record-low borrowing costs and
rising remittances will boost sales. The gauge is trading at 20
times reported earnings, almost twice the 11.5 times for the
benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index, the widest gap
between the two in 2 ½ years,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 The proposal to grant incentives to REITs may face
opposition after Finance Secretary  Cesar Purisima  said July 27
that government must “tweak” its law on property trusts
because the tax breaks can “massively erode” the nation’s
revenue base.  
 The stock exchange could have more than three REIT
offerings within a year of the issuance of the tax regulations,
according to Suarez. As a lawyer, he helped arrange the initial
share sales of a number of companies including Ayala Land, SM
Prime,  Filinvest Land Inc. ,  Megaworld Corp.  and Petron Corp.,
the Philippine exchange said in a statement yesterday.  
 “We will work for the full implementation of the REIT
law,” Suarez said. “My wish is for the tax regulations to come
out soon and if it’s little changed from what’s provided by
law, then we could still see one big REIT offering this year.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        