-- Pimco's Bill Gross Rolls Down Treasury Yield Curve for Non-Normal Returns
-- Daniel Kruger
-- 2010-07-29T20:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/pimco-s-bill-gross-rolls-down-treasury-yield-curve-for-non-normal-returns.html

          
          
             Bill Gross  is realizing gains
by benefitting from the near record  difference  in yields
between short- and longer-maturity bonds while preaching that
investors should prepare for lower-than-average returns.  
 “What we think is most attractive is the positioning in
terms of the curve,” said Gross, the manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. “As long
as short rates stay at zero or close to zero, and that’s the key
caveat, then an investor can make money simply by buying 5-year
Treasuries, watching them roll down the curve to four years and
then popping back up to five years again.”  
 Gross’s $234 billion  Total Return Fund  has returned 13
percent in the past 12 months, beating 65 percent of its peers,
Bloomberg data show. Returns of 10 percent or higher are
unlikely to be duplicated in what Pimco has termed the new
normal, a period in which deleveraging, re-regulation and de-
globalization will lead to slower growth, Gross said. He said
investors should be prepared for returns of around 4 percent to
5 percent from bonds and stocks over the next several years.  
 What makes Pimco’s strategy effective is that  five-year
notes  sit on one of the steeper parts of the yield curve, with
the securities above 145 basis points more than the Federal
Reserve’s  target rate  of zero to 0.25 percent. Two-year
Treasuries yield about 35 basis points more the funds rate,
while four-year notes yield about 1.25 percent.  
 ‘Reach for Yield’  
 “The five-year is identified as the point on the curve
that has the best roll-down and carry,” said  James Caron , head
of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Morgan Stanley in New York,
one of 18 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “Investors
who are looking to reach for yield are doing it.”  
 At the government’s $37 billion auction of the securities
yesterday investors and bond dealers submitted bids of $3.06 per
dollar of debt offered, the most since August 2006, as the
securities sold at a yield of 1.796 percent, the second lowest
on record.  
 The gap between 4- and 5-year yields is about 40 basis
points, compared with a 30 basis point difference between 2- and
3-year debt, and the 80-basis point gap between 3- and 5-year
interest rates is more than the entire 2-year yield of 60 basis
points, Caron said.  
 “Most money is managed five years and in,” Caron said.
“The five-year note is a lot of people’s long bond,” a term
used by traders for the 30-year Treasury bond, the longest-dated
security sold by the U.S. government.  
 Five-Year Notes  
 Treasury sold $39 billion of 2.625 percent notes at a yield
of 2.689 percent maturing July 2014 at $997 per security with a
$1,000 face value in July 2009. An investor buying $100 million
of the debt then would have collected $2.63 million in interest,
while the securities have risen in price to $105.19, for a total
return of $8.11 million. The notes traded at a yield of 1.26
percent today.  
 The yield on the new 5-year fell 7 basis points to 1.67
percent at 4:49 p.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data, The 1.75 percent securities due in July 2015 rose 11/32 or
$3.44 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 12/32.  
 Last month, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his colleagues
on the Fed’s Open Market Committee reiterated their commitment
to keep the central bank’s benchmark overnight rate close to
zero for an “extended period” to help the economy recover from
the worst financial crisis and downturn since the 1930s.  
 Fed’s Tools  
 “There might be a need for more stimulus, but not from the
fiscal side,” Gross said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Street Smart” with  Matt Miller  and  Carol Massar.  “The Fed
has some tools” including “a return to quantitative easing,
buying Treasuries” and reducing market volatility by making it
clear it will hold rates near zero for an even longer extended
period, he said.  
 Any fiscal measures to spur the economy should employ
“structural solutions that don’t just maintain a level of
consumption” and instead target industrial expansion or “clean
energy,” Gross said.  
 The central bank bought $300 billion in Treasuries from
March 2009 through October 2009 to help pull down borrowing
costs throughout the economy.  
 “To the extent that this ‘extended period’ of time stays
with us for two to three years then this roll-down curve
strategy for Treasuries or for corporates can add a lot of money
to the bottom line,” Newport Beach, California-based Gross said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio’s “On The Economy” interview
with  Tom Keene . “The risk is simply that Ben Bernanke gives up
on 25 basis points and starts to move upward like some of his
fellow governors have suggested.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bill Gross, co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Co., speaks during a conference. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bill Gross, manager of the world's biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., talks the possible need for more, non-fiscal, economic stimulus.
     Gross also discusses the performance of Pimco's bond fund and Federal Reserve monetary policy. He speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
