-- Poland May Delay Meeting EU Deficit Limit, Meaning `Bad News' for Markets
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-07-30T07:21:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/poland-may-delay-meeting-eu-deficit-limit-meaning-bad-news-for-markets.html

          
          
             Poland may delay complying with the
European Union’s budget deficit limit, disappointing investors
who’re counting on spending cuts, according to a draft four-year
financial plan reported last night by the PAP newswire.  
 The  Finance Ministry  proposes cutting the public-finance
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product in 2013, a year
later than the government has pledged, PAP reported, citing the
unofficial document. The central government deficit won’t exceed
45 billion zloty ($14.7 billion) next year, PAP said.  
 “A deficit of around 40 billion zloty would basically mean
no change from this year, and it would be bad news for
markets,” said  Jaroslaw Janecki , chief economist in Warsaw at
Societe Generale SA. “It won’t support the declared intentions
of real fiscal tightening.”  
 The government will discuss the plan, which outlines the
deficit, spending, revenue and borrowing targets through 2014,
later today. Prime Minister  Donald Tusk ’s administration is
struggling to close a deficit that swelled to 7.1 percent of GDP
in 2009 as it prepares for local and parliamentary elections in
the next year.  
 Hungary has roiled markets by seeking to back away from
budget commitments after Greece’s ballooning deficit sparked
investor concern about European sovereign debt. The EU and
International Monetary Fund suspended a review of Hungary’s 20
billion-euro ($26.2 billion) bailout program July 17, saying the
government had to make “tough decisions” on spending.  
 Spending Cuts  
 The zloty rose to 4.0055 against the euro by 9:05 a.m. in
Warsaw from 4.01 yesterday. Yields on two-year bonds dropped by
1 basis point to 4.698 percent.                    
 The Finance Ministry estimates next year’s revenue from
state asset sales will pump 25 billion zloty into the budget.
Limiting discretionary spending growth, which accounts for a
quarter of expenditure, to 1 percentage point above inflation
will allow savings of 17.3 billion zloty,  Rzeczpospolita  said
today, citing unnamed government source.  
 Poland plans to freeze wages for government workers through
2014 and replace existing value-added tax rates with rates of 6
percent, 8 percent and 23 percent, PAP said. VAT on processed
foods will drop to 6 percent from 7 percent, while the tax on
unprocessed foods will rise to 6 percent from 3 percent.  
 “Investors would prefer to see spending cuts rather than
income increases,” said  Dariusz Lasek , head of debt investments
at Union Investment TFI in Warsaw. “What’s important is the way
the deficit is reduced because economic growth should be
optimized.”  
 Public Debt  
 According to the draft plan, public debt won’t exceed 55
percent of GDP through 2014, PAP said. Anything more than 55
percent would force the government to raise taxes and cut
spending to narrow the gap within two years under Poland’s
public finance law.  
 Public debt  may reach 53.9 percent of GDP this year,
according to the European Commission’s spring economic forecasts
released in May.  
 “It’s highly probable that public debt will exceed 55
percent of gross domestic product next year, so the government
needs to cut the deficit to tame it,” said  Maja Goettig , chief
economist at Bank BPH in Warsaw. “Poland needs quick action,
and in the short run only tax increases will mend finances.”  
 Economic Rebound  
 The budget picture may improve as the economy rebounds. The
government forecasts  GDP  will expand 3.5 percent next year,
after growth slowed to 1.8 percent in 2009 as the global
recession curbed demand for exports. Wages will rise an average
of 3.7 percent, and the  unemployment rate  will fall to 9.9
percent at the end of next year from 11.6 percent currently,
according to government estimates.  
 The “budget is staggering under the burden of entitlement
spending,” Goettig said. “However, due to the election
calendar and opposition within the ruling coalition, we are not
going to see any concrete solutions in this plan, only an
outline, quite optimistic forecasts and some ad hoc measures.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        