-- Powerhouse Singer, Headless Rebels, Leggy Dancers: London Stage
-- Warwick Thompson
-- 2010-07-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/powerhouse-singer-headless-revolutionaries-leggy-dancers-london-stage.html

          
          
             The plot of Verdi’s “La forza del
destino” (The Force of Destiny) is wonderfully crazy even by
operatic standards. There are coincidences, there are accidents,
and the soprano spends most of the story as a monk. No wonder
it’s known as a director’s graveyard.  
 It’s also a singer’s paradise, and a new staging at
London’s Holland Park Opera assembles a dream team to do the
score justice.  
 Every time the plot veers off in another loopy direction,
the glowing voice of Gweneth Anne Jeffers supplies the
improbable reactions of her character, Leonora, with emotional
reality. Her lover accidentally shoots her father. Then she
loses him in the dark. Then she becomes a monk. It’s the maddest
career trajectory for any of Verdi’s heroines, and yet Jeffers
invests it with meaty vocal passion and heart-rending pathos.  
 Peter Auty is Alvaro, Leonora’s hapless lover. When he
suddenly recognizes his beloved after many years -- confusingly,
they’re both monks by this stage -- he’s just in time to watch
her get stabbed to death. It’s crazy. When Auty flings out a
golden B flat or delicately shades a phrase, it’s also meltingly
beautiful. If he can’t suspend your disbelief, then no one can.  
 Mark Stone has the right ringing-tingling high baritone for
Leonora’s mad, monomaniacal brother Carlo. Carole Wilson fires
out superb military rataplans and roulades as the soldier-gypsy
Preziosilla. Bass Mikhail Svetlov booms with terrific authority
as Guardiano, yet another monk.  
 It’s all held together with an impressive sense of cohesion
and rightness by conductor Stuart Stratford.  
 For some reason, which is never made clear, director Martin
Duncan chooses a Spanish Civil War setting and fills the bare
black stage with wooden chairs. It doesn’t make much sense.
Fortunately with singing this good, it doesn’t matter. The
thrills are all in the throats. Rating: ***.  
 Chopped Actors  
 There are thrills of a different nature at the  National
Theatre , where Georg Buechner’s 1835 French Revolution play
“Danton’s Death” climaxes in a spectacular guillotining scene,
designed by Christopher Oram. The actors’ heads go under the
blade, and they get chopped off. No smoke, and no mirrors. It’s
a can’t-believe-your-eyes “wow” moment.  
 Up to that point the pleasures are mixed. The play itself
is a baggy affair that pits Danton, a life-loving revolutionary,
against the hypocritical and tyrannous Robespierre. It’s all too
easy to see where the author’s sympathies lie, and Robespierre’s
counter-arguments in favor of social control aren’t given the
weight they need. It’s like watching a boxing match in which one
of the fighters has his hands tied behind his back.  
 Still,  Toby Stephens  is enormously charismatic as Danton
and his terror in the face of death is affecting. Elliot Levey
does his best with the one-note role of Robespierre, and
director  Michael Grandage  creates a simple and fluid period-
costume production with a spectacular finish. Rating: **.  
 Sequined Rumbas  
 Television shows like “Strictly Come Dancing” have
created a whole new audience for ballroom classics. Perhaps
they’ll be tempted to go to “Burn the Floor,” a celebration of
the waltz, quickstep and rumba, that stars Brian Fortuna and
soap actress  Ali Bastian  (both from the above TV show).  
 They’ll probably be disappointed if they do. Ballroom is a
partly silly and partly titillating mix of sex and sequins. What
we get is a bland, cruise-ship series of tableaux in which
danger is lacking.  
 It doesn’t want for energy, and the dancers are
terrifically athletic. The women’s legs seem to stretch all the
way to their sternums. The men’s pectorals glisten and ripple.
It’s all easy on the eye.  
 The problem is that choreographer Jason Gilkison doesn’t
encourage much individuality in the 21 dancers, and their sense
of characterization often only extends to an all-purpose
anguished expression or the occasional exaggerated sneer. You
can’t make much eroticism out of that. Rating: * ½.  
 “La forza del destino” is in repertoire at Opera Holland
Park through Aug. 14. Information:  http://www.ohp.rbkc.gov.uk  or
+44-845-230-9769.  
 “Danton’s Death” is in repertoire at the National Theatre
until Oct. 14. Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or
+44-20-7452-3000.  
 “Burn the Floor” is at the Shaftesbury Theatre. See
 http://www.shaftesburytheatre.com  or call +44-20-7379-5399.  
 (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  

 
What the Stars Mean:
****      Excellent
***       Good
**        Average
*         Poor
(No stars)Worthless
 
 
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The number "Dirty Boogie" from "Burn the Floor" at the Shaftesbury Theatre in London. The show's tagline is "Ballroom. Reinvented." Source: Jessica Huie PR via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Dancers in "Burn the Floor" at the Shaftesbury Theatre in London. The show, choreographed by Jason Gilkison, presents a series of modern ballroom dance sequences. Photographer Mark Kitaoka/Jessica Huie PR via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Peter Auty and Mark Stone  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Peter Auty, left, and Mark Stone as Alvaro and Calatrava in "La forza del destino" by Verdi, at Opera Holland Park in London. In a case of mistaken identity, the sworn enemies become best friends and only later discover their error. Photograph Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Peter Auty, left, and Mark Stone as Alvaro and Calatrava in "La forza del destino" by Verdi, at Opera Holland Park in London. In a case of mistaken identity, the sworn enemies become best friends and only later discover their error. Photograph Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gweneth-Ann Jeffers and Peter Auty  
                       
                         
                           Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Gweneth-Ann Jeffers and Peter Auty as Leonora and Alvaro in "La forza del destino" by Verdi, at Opera Holland Park in London. In the puzzling plot, Leonora and Alvaro are both monks. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Gweneth-Ann Jeffers and Peter Auty as Leonora and Alvaro in "La forza del destino" by Verdi, at Opera Holland Park in London. In the puzzling plot, Leonora and Alvaro are both monks. Photographer: Fritz Curzon/OHP via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Toby Stephens, center, as Danton in the 1835 drama "Danton's Death" by Georg Buchner, at the National Theatre in London. After he is accused of counter-revolutionary activities, Danton pleads his defense in court. Photographer: Johan Persson/National Theatre via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Elliot Levey and Toby Stephens  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         Elliot Levey, left, and Toby Stephens as Robespierre and Danton in the 1835 drama "Danton's Death" by Georg Buchner at the National Theatre in London. Set during the French Revolution, the play charts the conflict between Danton, a moderate, and Robespierre, a bloodthirsty and dogmatic hardliner. Photograph Johan Persson/National Theatre via Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Elliot Levey, left, and Toby Stephens as Robespierre and Danton in the 1835 drama "Danton's Death" by Georg Buchner at the National Theatre in London. Set during the French Revolution, the play charts the conflict between Danton, a moderate, and Robespierre, a bloodthirsty and dogmatic hardliner. Photograph Johan Persson/National Theatre via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
