-- South African PPI Surges, Credit Rises, Reducing Chances of More Rate Cuts
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-07-29T12:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/producer-price-inflation-in-south-africa-rises-to-9-4-more-than-expected.html

          
          
             The cost of goods leaving South
African factories and mines climbed an annual 9.4 percent in
June, while credit demand rose for a second month, reducing
expectations the central bank may cut interest rates.  
 Producer prices rose from 6.8 percent in May, the Pretoria-
based statistics office said on its website today, and exceeded
the 7.4 percent  median estimate  of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Credit growth accelerated to 0.9 percent in June from
0.8 percent in May, the central bank said in a separate report.  
 Rising producer costs and a rebound in consumer spending
threaten to boost  consumer-price inflation , which has stayed
inside the central bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target range
for five consecutive months. That may prompt the Reserve Bank to
keep its benchmark interest  rate  unchanged at its lowest in at
least a decade.  
 “Higher electricity costs is putting pressure on
households and businesses,” said Salomi Odendaal, an economist
at Citadel Investment Services in Cape Town. “Credit demand is
rising but growth remains fairly tepid. Interest rates will stay
stable for quite a lengthy period of time.”  
 The Reserve Bank left its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at 6.5 percent on July 22 after lowering it seven times since
December 2008, as consumer spending recovered. The inflation
rate, which fell to an annual 4.2 percent in June, from 4.6
percent in the previous month, will probably remain inside the
target range until 2012, the central bank said.  
 Producer prices jumped last month after electricity costs
increased. Eskom Holdings Ltd., the state-owned power utility,
won price increases of 25 percent this year and 26 percent in
each of the following two years to help fund its expansion
program. Crude oil has increased 4.1 percent in New York in the
past two months and was trading as high as $77.45 a barrel
today.  
 The rand’s gains are helping to curb inflation pressure.
The currency has climbed 4.5 percent against the dollar in the
past six months and was trading as high as 7.2834 in
Johannesburg today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        