-- Publicis Revenue Jumps on Digital Revenue, New Business After Recession
-- Kristen Schweizer
-- 2010-07-29T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/publicis-first-half-profit-jumps-28-on-new-ad-business-after-recession.html

          
          
             Publicis Groupe SA  said first-half
profit increased as marketers boosted spending, benefitting its
largest ad companies, Leo Burnett, Publicis Worldwide and
Vivaki, and digital revenue continued to grow.  
 Net income  rose to 213 million euros ($277 million), or 95
cents a share, from 167 million euros, or 82 cents, a year
earlier, Publicis said in a statement.  Sales  climbed 15 percent
to 2.54 billion euros, while revenue excluding currency effects
and acquisitions rose 5.3 percent. Profit had been predicted at
190.7 million euros on sales of 2.44 billion euros, according to
the average estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Publicis said most of its top clients increased spending
after cuts last year, and emerging-market and digital business
is growing. The company said it would outperform the market this
year.  Publicis  won $2.1 billion of net new business in the first
half, including contracts from Chrysler, Canon and Fiat. It’s
seeking investment opportunities in digital and emerging markets
and said it identified many targets in China.  
 “We want to have a very special look at China because I
believe this market has to become one of our most important,”
 Maurice Levy , chief executive officer of the Paris-based
company, said by phone last night.  
 Levy said 2010 revenue at Publicis will beat that of 2008
before the recession, helped by currency fluctuations. Revenue
in 2008 was 4.7 billion euros.  
 Publicis announced a strategic review of China, where its
eyeing acquisitions and will form an ad research group with
online operators including Web video platform Sohu.com and  Baidu
Inc. , which owns China’s most popular search engine.  
 Global Recovery  
 The global advertising industry is recovering faster than
expected, led by spending in the U.S. and Western Europe,
ZenithOptimedia Group Ltd., a Publicis-owned media buyer, said
last week as it raised its outlook for the sector for a second
time this year.  
 Worldwide ad spending will increase 3.5 percent this year,
compared with a forecast of 2.2 percent in April,
ZenithOptimedia said.  
 “Clearly, what we see are that the main clients have
increased spending and have increased their relationships with
us, giving us more tasks and business,” Levy said.  
 Publicis said first-half revenue from operations in Europe
rose 3.1 percent to 805 million euros, on an organic basis,
while sales increased 6.6 percent in North America to 1.26
billion euros and 6 percent in Asia-Pacific to 286 million
euros.  
 Digital advertising accounted for 28.1 percent of revenue,
compared with 20.7 percent a year earlier.  
 Not Retiring  
 Levy, 68, said in June he had wanted to retire as CEO when
his contract expires at the end of next year, though the board
in June asked him to stay on while economic uncertainties
continued.  
 WPP Plc , Publicis’s U.K. rival, said in June that revenue
in the first five months rose 1.8 percent, led by a recovery in
the U.S. and U.K. Revenue growth in the U.S. was more than 7
percent in April and May while the increase in the U.K. was more
than 4 percent, WPP said.  
 Net debt at Publicis as of June 30 was 618 million euros,
compared with 899 million euros a year earlier.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        