-- Publicis's Kekst Names Larry Rand Chief Executive as Founder Pares Duties
-- Zachary R. Mider
-- 2010-07-29T21:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/publicis-s-kekst-names-larry-rand-chief-executive-as-founder-pares-duties.html

          
          
             Publicis Groupe SA’s Kekst & Co.,
the New York-based firm that pioneered public relations for
corporate takeovers, named  Larry Rand  chief executive officer as
founder  Gershon Kekst  gives up daily management of the company.  
 Kekst, 75, will continue as executive chairman of the firm,
he said in a memo to staff today obtained by Bloomberg News and
confirmed by the company. Paris-based Publicis bought the 70-
employee Kekst & Co., formerly a privately held partnership, in
2008.  
 “Larry is uniquely qualified for this responsibility,”
Kekst said in the memo.  
 Rand, 67, was among the first employees to join Kekst after
the firm’s founding in 1970. He is an adjunct professor at New
York University’s Stern School of Business and a former mayor of
Rye Brook, a village in the New York City suburbs.  
 “I don’t view this as a succession -- nobody’s going to
succeed Gershon Kekst,” Rand said in an interview. “It’s a
transition.”  
 Kekst & Co. aims to expand beyond its traditional work in
mergers and acquisitions, crisis management and investor and
media relations, Rand said. The firm will pursue more business
in litigation support, restructuring and bankruptcy and
corporate governance. The company opened its second office, in
San Francisco, this year.  
 Along with Rand’s appointment, effective Sept. 1, Kekst &
Co. is forming an executive committee of Rand,  James Fingeroth ,
 Jeffrey Taufield  and  Thomas Davies .  
 Kekst has counseled corporate chiefs including  Sanford I. “Sandy” Weill  of Citigroup Inc.,  Steven Ross  of Time Warner
Inc. and  Henry Kravis  of KKR & Co. In his new role, Kekst will
continue to work with clients and mentor the company’s
employees, he said in the memo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        