-- Puma Drops as Net Misses Consensus, Forecast Canceled
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-07-29T15:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/puma-second-quarter-profit-rises-16-to-58-million-boosted-by-americas.html

          
          
             Puma AG,  Europe ’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, declined the most in more than four months
in Frankfurt trading after quarterly profit missed analysts’
estimates and the company canceled a forecast for pretax profit.  
 The  shares  fell 14.30 euros, or 6.1 percent, to 221.60
euros, the biggest drop since March 6. The decline was the
biggest in  Germany ’s MDAX Index of medium-sized companies.  
 Net income advanced to 44.8 million euros ($58.6 million)
from 38.5 million euros a year earlier, the Herzogenaurach,
Germany-based company said today in a statement. That missed the
49.8 million-euro average  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company didn’t reiterate a previous forecast for
pretax earnings growth of at least 70 percent.  
 “The figures are disappointing, especially the sales
figures for Europe and  Asia ,” Tim Burkhardt, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, Germany, said by
phone. “Puma is benefiting less than its larger competitors
from the  World Cup  as its teams, especially Italy, left early.”
Burkhardt recommends investors buy the stock.  
 Puma today canceled its April forecast for growth of
earnings before taxes, citing “uncertainties” related to an
arbitration ruling in  Spain .  
 Trademark  
 Puma has said it will receive all trademark rights and take
over the operational business in the country from former license
holder Estudio 2000 SA. The vesting is subject to a payment of
as much as 98 million euros because of an arbitration ruling.
Puma will appeal the decision in the “next days,” Chief
Executive Officer Jochen Zeitz said today.  
 Revenue rose 2.5 percent to 615.4 million euros, while
sales dropped in both Europe and Asia. Adidas AG, the world’s
second-largest sporting-goods maker, said July 22 that quarterly
profit jumped 13-fold as the World Cup helped boost sales by 19
percent.  
 Puma outfitted seven national teams at this summer’s World
Cup, including Uruguay, which ended the tournament in fourth
place. The company, a unit of  PPR (PP)  SA, also acquired Fortune
Brands Inc.’s Cobra golf label in the quarter to boost sales in
the segment.  
 Puma reiterated a forecast for sales growth in the “low to
mid-single digits for the full year,” based on the outlook for
the second half. The company expects gross margins to be
unchanged compared with the year earlier, it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        