-- Republicans Say Rangel Passed on Chances to Settle Ethics Case
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-07-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/rangel-faces-13-ethics-charges-by-house-panel-including-seeking-donations.html

          
          
             Republicans on the U.S. House ethics
panel said Representative  Charles Rangel  passed up chances to
settle misconduct charges and now must face an airing of
allegations that include improperly seeking donations from
companies with business before Congress.  
 Charges against the New York Democrat were detailed
yesterday at a hearing of an eight-member subcommittee
empanelled to determine whether Rangel is guilty of 13
allegations of ethical misconduct.  
 “Let me be clear that Mr. Rangel” was “given
opportunities to negotiate a settlement during the investigation
phase,” Representative  Michael McCaul , a Texas Republican, said
at the hearing. “We are now in the trial phase.”  
 McCaul’s comments are significant because, with the ethics
panel comprised equally of Democrats and Republicans, a
bipartisan majority would be required to approve any settlement
Rangel’s attorneys might reach with staff attorneys.  
 A public hearing on the charges, which won’t occur until
after Congress returns from its August recess, could be
politically awkward for Democrats as the November 2 elections
approach. That vote will determine whether the party retains
control of the House and Senate.  
 The charges against Rangel include allegations that he
sought donations from companies such as New York Life Insurance
Co.,  American International Group Inc ., and private foundations
related to such businesses as  AT&T Inc . and  Verizon
Communications Inc ., to help fund construction of an academic
facility carrying his name. He obtained $8 million in donations
for the  Charles Rangel  Center for Public Service at City College
of New York.  
 Potential Donors  
 Rangel, 80, is accused of improperly using the official
House stationary letterhead to send more than 100 solicitation
letters to potential donors that were prepared by his staff
during their workday. Enclosed was a 20-page “glossy brochure”
that requested a $30 million donation over five years or $6
million a year, according to the 40-page charging  document 
released by the ethics committee.  
 In March, Rangel stepped aside as chairman of the tax-
writing House Ways and Means Committee after the ethics panel
cited him for accepting corporate-sponsored travel.  
 Rangel “denies each and every allegation” of the new
charges, his lawyers said in a  statement  filed with the ethics
committee. Rangel didn’t dispense political favors, “did not
intentionally violate any law, rule or regulation” and didn’t
“misuse his public office for private gain,” they wrote.  
 Pelosi’s Reaction  
 House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, told
reporters yesterday “the chips will have to fall where they may
politically, but holding the highest ethics standards is a top
priority for us.” She defended her party’s record on ethics,
saying Democrats had lived up to their pledge in the 2006
campaign to “drain the swamp” of ethical wrongdoing in the
then-Republican controlled House.  
 Democrats won both the House and Senate in that election.  
 McCaul, a former federal prosecutor, called the charges
against Rangel “very serious.” They include Rangel’s failure
to report more than $500,000 in income from rental properties
and other sources on required financial disclosure statements.
The lawmaker has since amended his reports.  
 “These actions and these allegations, if proven, would
violate multiple provisions of House rules and federal
statutes,” McCaul said.  
 Representative  Jo Bonner  of Alabama, the panel’s top
Republican, said Rangel, a Korean War combat veteran, overcame
poverty to become an influential lawmaker and one of the most
“well-liked” House members.  
 “This is truly a sad day, which no one, regardless of
their partisan strips, should rejoice,” Bonner said.  
 War Veteran  
 Rangel said yesterday that “60 years ago I survived a
Chinese attack in North Korea and as a result I haven’t had a
bad day since. But today I have to reassess that statement.”  
 Rangel didn’t attend the panel’s meeting yesterday. Earlier
this week, he said his lawyers were trying to settle the case
with ethics committee attorneys.  
 Bonner said Rangel “was given multiple opportunities to
settle this matter” and “instead, he chose to move forward
into this public trial phase.”  
 Among those Rangel sought building donations from was the
chief executive officer of Nabors Industries Ltd., an oil
drilling business lobbying Congress to preserve a tax loophole
for companies headquartered in Bermuda.  
 Pledged Donations  
 The company and its CEO,  Eugene Isenberg , each pledged
$500,000 contributions after Rangel met with the executive, the
committee charged. Rangel, then the Ways and Means chairman, met
twice in the next eight months with Isenberg about preserving
the tax loophole, the committee charged.  
 According to the panel’s documents, Rangel used a rent-
controlled apartment in New York as a campaign office in part
because he was on a “special handling list” maintained by the
management company that noted his status as a member of Congress.  
 Rangel referred his own case to the ethics committee two
years ago, saying he expected to be vindicated.  
 The investigating subcommittee said Rangel “refused
repeated requests” for documents, requiring the panel to issue
a subpoena.  
 Rangel has served in Congress since 1971. He won election
after successfully challenging then-Representative Adam Clayton
Powell Jr. in the 1970 Democratic primary. He is being
challenged this year by Adam Clayton Powell IV for the party’s
nomination.  
 “Some people would undoubtedly support him if he got
handcuffed and thrown in jail,” Powell said in an interview. He
called on Rangel to resign before New York’s Sept. 14 primary.  
 Rangel’s supporters this week mailed a video invitation to
a $2,500-a-ticket party on Aug. 11 to belatedly celebrate his
80th birthday, which was on June 11. The party will feature
singer  Aretha Franklin .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Representative Charles Rangel  
                       
                         
                           Kevin Dietsch/Pool via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Representative Charles Rangel, a Democrat from New York, gave up his chairmanship of the House Ways and Means Committee after being admonished for breaking House rules in accepting gifts. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Representative Charles Rangel, a Democrat from New York, gave up his chairmanship of the House Ways and Means Committee after being admonished for breaking House rules in accepting gifts. Photographer: Kevin Dietsch/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
