-- Treasuries Poised for Worst Month Since March Before Jobless Claims Report
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-29T02:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/treasuries-snap-advance-before-report-forecast-to-show-jobless-claims-fell.html

          
          
             Treasuries headed for their worst
monthly performance since March before a government report that
economists said will show initial claims for jobless benefits
approached a two-year low.  
 Yields indicate investors are seeking higher rates than
those available on government debt. The TED spread, the
difference between what banks and the U.S. pay to borrow for
three months, narrowed to 33 basis points, the least since May.
The Treasury plans to sell $29 billion of seven-year debt today,
the last of three note auctions this week totaling $104 billion.  
 “The U.S. economy will slowly gain traction,” said  Marc Fovinci , who helps oversee $2.5 billion as head of fixed income
for Ferguson Wellman Capital Management Inc. in Portland, Oregon.
“We’re not expecting any sudden move up in rates. It’s going to
be gradual and slow, but that’s going to be the trend.”  
 The benchmark 10-year note  yielded  2.99 percent as of 11:36
a.m. in Tokyo, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.5
percent security maturing in May 2020 traded at 104 10/32.  
 Initial unemployment claims fell to 460,000 last week from
464,000 in the prior period, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor Department reports the
figure today. The figure was 427,000 in the period ended July 10,
the least in two years.  
 The economy’s “rough patch” in recent months, caused in
part by weaker consumer confidence and spending, isn’t the start
of a slide back into a recession, said  John Williams , research
director for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.  
 ‘Disappointing’ Data  
 “Recent economic data have been disappointing and there’s
no denying that the economy has hit a bit of a rough patch,”
Williams said in the text of a speech yesterday in Portland.
“Although discouraging, the recent softness in the economic
data looks much more like a bump in the road” than “a swerve
into the ditch.”  
 Fovinci said he is favoring company bonds. This month he
bought the debt of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the most profitable
securities company, and General Electric Capital Corp., the
financing arm for the world’s biggest maker of jet engines.  
 The difference between yields on U.S. corporate and
government debt narrowed to 2.87 percentage points from 3.25
percentage points in June, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  
 The three-month London interbank offered  rate , which banks
pay for dollar loans, declined for an 11th day yesterday to
0.475 percent.  
 Treasuries have returned 0.1 percent this month, versus 1.8
percent for U.S. company bonds, the Bank of America indexes show.  
 Fed Survey  
 Government  securities  gained yesterday as a Fed survey said
U.S. economic growth slowed in some areas, boosting the haven
appeal of the safest fixed-income securities.  
 “The same issues that have been with us are still with
us,” said  Kevin Giddis , head of fixed-income sales, trading and
research at brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in Memphis,
Tennessee. “The economy is in a very slow recovery mode and in
some districts it got even slower.”  
 U.S. notes also rose after the government sold $37 billion
of five-year securities.  
 The auction drew a yield of 1.796 percent, compared with an
average forecast of 1.82 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with total securities offered,
was 3.06, the highest level since August 2006.  
 “People are looking at safety,” said  William Larkin , a
fixed-income portfolio manager in Salem, Massachusetts, at Cabot
Money Management, which manages $500 million. “The fear trade
is still alive and well.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        