-- Treasury Seven-Year Notes Advance Before $29 Billion Auction of Securities
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-29T16:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/treasury-10-year-yield-is-near-two-week-high-as-unemployment-claims-fall.html

          
          
             Treasury seven-year notes rose,
pushing yields to the lowest level in a week, as the U.S.
prepared to sell $29 billion of the securities today.  
 U.S.  30-year bonds  dropped, sending yields to a one-month
high, as data showed initial claims for jobless benefits fell
last week for the third time this month.  Treasuries  gained the
most in a week yesterday as a Federal Reserve survey showed U.S.
economic growth slowed in some areas.  
 “People want to be in the 5- and 7-year sectors,” said
 Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova
Scotia in New York. “People are not extending to the 30-year
because they are nervous being caught out the curve. They are
concerned the debt levels are spiraling out of control.”  
 Yields on the  seven-year note  fell 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.34 percent at 12:01 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. They touched 2.33 percent,
the lowest level since July 22. Five-year  note yields  fell 3
basis points to 1.66 percent, while 30-year yields rose 2 basis
points to 4.08 percent and touched 4.14 percent, the highest
since June 22.  
 Investors are reaching for yield and there is not enough in
two-year Treasuries, so they are “hiding in the belly” of the
yield curve of maturities, Comiskey said.  
 The government’s sale today is the last of three note
auctions this week totaling $104 billion and is the smallest
seven-year offering since September. The seven-year securities
being sold yielded 2.375 percent in pre-auction trading. That
compares with 2.575 percent at the previous sale of the debt on
June 24.  
 Demand Level  
 Investors  bid  for 3.01 times the amount on offer last
month, the highest level since the seven-year note was
reintroduced in February 2009, compared with an average of 2.81
for the past 10 auctions.  
 Five-year securities sold yesterday drew a yield of 1.796
percent, compared with an average forecast of 1.82 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of seven primary dealers. Bidding totaled 3.06
times the available debt, the highest level since August 2006.  
 Initial unemployment claims dropped by 11,000 in the week
ended July 24 from a revised 468,000 the previous week, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. A Bloomberg News
survey forecast was for a decline to 460,000. The number of
people receiving unemployment insurance rose, while those
getting extended payments declined.  
 Monthly Loss  
 Benchmark 10-year treasuries were poised for their first
 monthly loss  since March amid gains by stocks and an easing of
speculation that Europe’s debt crisis would worsen. Earnings
have topped analysts’ estimates at about 78 percent of companies
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that have reported second-
quarter results so far, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The 10-year note  yielded  2.97 percent today, 4 basis points
higher than the close on June 30 of 2.93 percent. It’s more than
1 percentage point lower than the 4.01 percent high for the
year, reached in April, on speculation a cooling of economic
expansion will prevent the Fed from raising interest rates.  
 “We have seen a quite astonishingly positive earnings
season, but the excitement in the market has only been limited
and the price effect is going to vanish quite quickly,” said
 Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “It’s hard to see where more positive impetus can come
from. We shouldn’t get prepared for tighter Fed policy any time
soon and this will be supportive for fixed income. We are in a
low yield environment and we’ll remain there.”  
 U.S. GDP  
 U.S. gross domestic product growth slowed to 2.6 percent in
the second quarter from 2.7 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of 81 economists in a
Bloomberg survey before the report tomorrow.  
 “For the U.S., the outlook is weakening,” said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Zurich. “The focus is on tomorrow’s gross domestic
product numbers and if we see a disappointment, the knee-jerk
reaction will be to see a rally in Treasuries.”  
 Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, is attracting almost $1 billion a week from
investors and buying Treasuries with some of the inflows,
according to  Bill Gross , the co-chief investment officer.  
 Gross’s $234 billion  Total Return Fund , the biggest bond
fund, has benefitted this year as yields declined and investors
questioned the sustainability of the global recovery.  
 Yields on 10-year Treasuries are unlikely to revisit the
all-time low of 2.04 percent reached Dec. 18, 2008, with the Fed
keeping its target rate for overnight loans between banks at a
record low range of zero to 0.25 percent for two to three years,
Gross said yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene .  
 “As long as short rates stay at zero or close to zero, and
that’s the key caveat, then an investor can make money simply by
buying 5-year Treasuries, watching them roll down the curve to
four years and then popping back up to five years again,” Gross
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        