-- Treasury 10-Year Yield Is Near Two-Week High Before Jobless Claims Report
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-29T11:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/treasuries-drop-before-government-report-that-may-show-jobless-claims-fell.html

          
          
             U.S. 10-year Treasury yields were
near the highest in two weeks before a report today that may
show initial jobless claims fell for the third time in four
weeks last week, curbing demand for the securities as a refuge.  
 The yield rose earlier above 3 percent for a fourth day as
equities in Europe and U.S. stock futures advanced. The
government will sell $29 billion of seven-year debt today, the
last of three auctions this week totaling $104 billion.
 Treasuries  gained the most in a week yesterday as a Federal
Reserve survey showed U.S. economic growth slowed in some areas.  
 “Risk markets have stabilized and a lot of the bad news is
largely factored in, so the upside for Treasuries is limited in
the short term,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist in Edinburgh at RIA Capital Markets Ltd., a broker
for banks and investors. “Ten-year yields may hover around 3
percent.”  
 The 10-year yield was little changed at 2.99 percent as of
7:05 a.m. in New York, after falling six basis points yesterday,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.5 percent security
maturing in May 2020 was priced at 104 9/32.  
 The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares and futures on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks increased 0.5
percent.  
 Initial  jobless claims  fell to 460,000 last week from
464,000 in the prior period, according to a Bloomberg survey
before today’s Labor Department report. The figure was 427,000
in the period ended July 10, the least in two years.  
 Monthly Loss  
 Ten-year treasuries are poised for their first  monthly loss 
in four amid gains by stocks and an easing of speculation that
Europe’s debt crisis would worsen. Earnings have topped
analysts’ estimates at more than 80 percent of companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that have reported second-quarter
results so far, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The 10-year  yield  is six basis points higher than the close
on June 30 of 2.93 percent. It’s about 1 percentage point lower
than the 4.01 percent high for the year, reached in April, on
speculation a cooling of economic expansion will prevent the Fed
from raising interest rates.  
 “We have seen a quite astonishingly positive earnings
season but the excitement in the market has only been limited
and the price effect is going to vanish quite quickly,” said
 Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit SpA in
Munich. “It’s hard to see where more positive impetus can come
from. We shouldn’t get prepared for tighter Fed policy any time
soon and this will be supportive for fixed income. We are in a
low yield environment and we’ll remain there.”  
 ‘Outlook is Weakening’  
 U.S. gross domestic product growth slowed to 2.5 percent in
the second quarter from 2.7 percent in the previous three
months, according to the median estimate of 80 economists in a
Bloomberg survey before the report tomorrow.  
 “For the U.S., the outlook is weakening,” said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Zurich. “The focus is on tomorrow’s gross domestic
product numbers and if we see a disappointment, the knee-jerk
reaction will be to see a rally in Treasuries.”  
 Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, is attracting almost $1 billion a week from
investors and buying Treasuries with some of the inflows,
according to  Bill Gross , the co-chief investment officer.  
 Gross’s $234 billion  Total Return Fund , the biggest bond
fund, has benefitted this year as yields declined and investors
questioned the sustainability of the global recovery.  
 ‘Close to Zero’  
 Yields on 10-year Treasuries are unlikely to revisit the
all-time low of 2.04 percent reached Dec. 18, 2008, with the Fed
keeping its target rate for overnight loans between banks at a
record low range of zero to 0.25 percent for two to three years,
Gross said yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene .  
 “As long as short rates stay at zero or close to zero, and
that’s the key caveat, then an investor can make money simply by
buying 5-year Treasuries, watching them roll down the curve to
four years and then popping back up to five years again,” Gross
said.  
 Five-year securities sold yesterday drew a yield of 1.796
percent, compared with an average forecast of 1.82 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of seven primary dealers. Bidding totaled 3.06
times the available debt, the highest level since August 2006.  
 The seven-year notes being sold today yielded 2.41 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.575 percent at the
previous sale of the securities on June 24.  
 Investors  bid  for 3.01 times the amount on offer last
month, compared with an average of 2.81 for the past 10
auctions.  
 -- With assistance from  Alex Kowalski , Tom Keene and Susanne
Walker in New York. Editors:  David Clarke ,  Peter Branton .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        