-- Treasury Yields Stay Near Week's Low on Concern Economic Growth Is Slowing
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-29T07:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/treasuries-hold-yesterday-s-gain-on-forecasts-for-slowing-economic-growth.html

          
          
             Treasury 10-year yields were near
the lowest this week before a government report tomorrow that
analysts said will show U.S. economic growth is slowing.  
 Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, is attracting almost $1 billion a week from
investors, according to  Bill Gross , the co-chief investment
officer. The Treasury is scheduled to sell $29 billion of seven-
year debt today, the last of three note auctions this week
totaling $104 billion.  
 “I’m quite bullish on Treasuries,” said  Chungkeun Oh , a
fixed-income trader in Seoul at Industrial Bank of Korea, South
Korea’s largest lender to small- and medium-sized companies.
“The performance of the economy will not improve.”  
 The 10-year note  yield  climbed less than 1 basis point to 3
percent as of 8:18 a.m. in London, after falling six basis
points yesterday, according to BGCantor Market Data. The 3.5
percent security maturing in May 2020 fell 2/32, or 63 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 104 7/32. The yield slipped to 2.98
percent earlier, after reaching 2.97 percent on July 26.  
 The rate climbed as high as 3.06 percent yesterday from
this year’s low of 2.85 percent on July 21. Yields above 3
percent are attracting investors, said Oh, who bought last week.  
 U.S. gross domestic product growth slowed to 2.5 percent in
the second quarter from 2.7 percent in the previous three
months, according to a Bloomberg survey before the government
reports the figure tomorrow.  
 Total Return  
 Gross’s $234 billion  Total Return Fund , the biggest bond
fund, has benefitted this year as yields declined and investors
questioned the sustainability of the global recovery.  
 The Newport Beach, California-based fund returned 13
percent in the past 12 months, beating 63 percent of its peers,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Gross, speaking yesterday in a Bloomberg Radio interview
with  Tom Keene , said investors should be prepared for returns of
4 percent to 5 percent from bonds and stocks over the next
several years.  
 New Zealand’s central bank raised  interest rates  for a
second month today and signaled plans to slow the pace of the
increases. “The outlook for economic growth has softened,”
central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  said in Wellington.
“Domestic demand is subdued. Households are cautious.”  
 The seven-year notes being sold today yielded 2.41 percent
in pre-auction trading, compared with 2.575 percent at the
previous sale of the securities on June 24.  
 Investors  bid  for 3.01 times the amount on offer last
month, compared with an average of 2.81 for the past 10
auctions.  
 Higher Yields  
 Investors who are optimistic on the economy say yields are
headed higher.  
 “The U.S. economy will slowly gain traction,” said  Marc Fovinci , who helps oversee $2.5 billion as head of fixed income
for Ferguson Wellman Capital Management Inc. in Portland,
Oregon. “We’re not expecting any sudden move up in rates. It’s
going to be gradual and slow, but that’s going to be the
trend.”  
 Fovinci said he is favoring company bonds. This month he
bought the debt of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the most profitable
securities company, and General Electric Capital Corp., the
financing arm for the world’s biggest maker of jet engines.  
 Yields indicate investors are seeking higher rates than
those available on government debt. The TED spread, the
difference between what banks and the U.S. pay to borrow for
three months, narrowed to 33 basis points, the least since May.  
 Spread Narrows  
 The difference between yields on U.S. corporate and
government debt narrowed to 2.87 percentage points from 3.25
percentage points in June, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  
 The three-month London interbank offered  rate , which banks
pay for dollar loans, declined for an 11th day yesterday, to
0.475 percent.  
 Treasuries have returned 0.1 percent this month, versus 1.8
percent for U.S. company bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show.  
 Initial jobless claims fell to 460,000 last week from
464,000 in the prior period, according to a Bloomberg survey
before today’s Labor Department report. The figure was 427,000
in the period ended July 10, the least in two years.  
 The 10-year yield will rise to 3.28 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities firms
with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  
 Government  bonds  gained yesterday as a Fed survey showed
U.S. economic growth slowed in some areas, boosting the haven
appeal of the safest fixed-income securities.  
 U.S. notes also rose as bidding increased as the government
sold $37 billion of five-year securities.  
 The auction drew a yield of 1.796 percent, compared with an
average forecast of 1.82 percent in a Bloomberg survey of seven
primary dealers. Bidding totaled 3.06 times the available debt,
the highest level since August 2006.  
 “People are looking at safety,” said  William Larkin , a
fixed-income portfolio manager in Salem, Massachusetts, at Cabot
Money Management, which manages $500 million. “The fear trade
is still alive and well.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        