-- Red Army Faction's Verena Becker Faces a Trial in Germany Over 1977 Murder
-- Karin Matussek
-- 2010-07-29T08:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/red-army-faction-s-verena-becker-faces-a-trial-in-germany-over-1977-murder.html

          
          
             Verena Becker, former member of the
Red Army Faction terrorists group, has to stand trial for the
1977 murder of Germany’s former Chief Federal Prosecutor
 Siegfried Buback , a court ruled.  
 The Stuttgart Higher Regional Court yesterday allowed the
charges to go to trial, the tribunal said in a  statement  on its
website. An initial probe against Becker in 1977 was dropped
because there wasn’t enough evidence to suggest she committed
the crime. She was charged in April after the case against her
was reopened in 2008.  
 Buback  was shot dead on April 7, 1977, in a drive-by
motorcycle attack in Karlsruhe, Germany, by the RAF. The killing
was part of the group’s campaign of murder and kidnapping in the
1970s, dubbed the “German Autumn.” Their victims included
 Juergen Ponto , then chief executive of Dresdner Bank AG, and the
chairman of the BDI industry lobby,  Hanns Martin Schleyer .  
 The Federal Prosecutor’s Office arrested Becker in August
last year. Germany’s top criminal court released her in
December, saying she wasn’t a flight risk and that the evidence
suggests she only aided in the murder.  
 Prosecutors in April charged her with committing the murder
jointly with other members of the group, saying they gathered
more evidence to indict her with the tougher crime, a step now
backed by the Stuttgart Court, which will also try her.  
 A key piece of evidence against her may be an envelope
containing a letter claiming responsibility for the crime. Newly
available microbiological analysis tools have shown that she
played a “significant” role in writing that letter, according
to prosecutors. There is no indication that she was one of the
people who rode the motorbike, they have said.  
 Becker’s attorney, Walter Venedey, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  
 When Becker was first arrested in 1977, she fired a gun at
police officers and was sentenced to life in prison for
attempted murder. She was pardoned after serving nine years.  
 The case is OLG Stuttgart, 6-2 StE 2/10.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        