-- Tribune Creditors Seek Fraud Evidence Before Voting on Reorganization Plan
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-29T18:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/tribune-creditors-seek-fraud-evidence-before-voting-on-reorganization-plan.html

          
          
             Tribune Co.  creditors, preparing to
vote on the company’s reorganization plan, asked a judge to
release evidence that an investigator used to conclude the
bankrupt publisher’s 2007 buyout involved fraudulent transfers.  
 Noteholders who support the fraud claims and lenders who
dispute them both asked U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge  Kevin J. Carey  in Wilmington, Delaware, to make public the full version
of a court-ordered report on the buyout. Their votes on
Tribune’s reorganization proposal are due next month.  
 Bankruptcy examiner  Kenneth N. Klee  found evidence of a
fraudulent transfer involving the second part of the two-part
deal that real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell  used to take over the
newspaper and television company. Klee found that creditors are
“somewhat likely” to win a lawsuit based on the smaller piece
of the $8.3 billion transaction.  
 “What we have now is a hollow shell of the examiner’s
report,” lender attorney  James O. Johnston  said in court. “One
of my clients described it as reading a Playboy magazine with
big black bars over all the photos.”  
 Tribune filed for bankruptcy in December 2008, a year after
the Zell-led  buyout . Creditors have said in court papers that
Klee’s report may influence the way they vote on Tribune’s
reorganization plan. Carey must take those votes into
consideration when he decides whether to approve the
reorganization plan and allow the company to exit bankruptcy.  
 Fraudulent-Transfer Claim  
 Some lower-ranking creditors alleged the buyout was a
fraudulent transfer because it added more than $8 billion in
debt to the company while benefiting only Zell and  shareholders .  
 Carey agreed to a request by Tribune to distribute the full
report to some parties in the bankruptcy case who were also
involved in the examiner’s investigation.  
 The judge scheduled a hearing for Aug. 3 to decide whether
the full report should be made public. If it is, all Tribune
creditors will be able to see hundreds of pages of e-mails,
interview transcripts and other documents Klee collected.  
 Carey said he will also consider giving creditors more time
to vote. Should he extend the Aug. 6 voting deadline, Carey
said, he probably won’t change the start date for a hearing to
decide whether to approve the company’s plan.  
 Creditors say they will use the hearing, scheduled for Aug.
30, to ask Carey to reject the plan, in part based on the fraud
allegations.  
 The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        