-- Santos Names Aide Rivera Colombia Defense Chief, Vargas Lleras to Cabinet
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-07-29T10:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/rivera-named-colombia-defense-minister-as-santos-keeps-pressure-on-rebels.html

          
          
             Colombia’s next Defense Minister
 Rodrigo Rivera  vowed to maintain the outgoing government’s
pressure on Marxist rebels after being named to the post by
President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos .  
 Rivera, a 47-year-old lawyer, served as Santos’ campaign
manager and headed his transition team following his victory in
a May runoff election. Prior to joining the president-elect’s
campaign, the one-time Liberal Party leader expressed support
for a constitutional amendment that would have allowed President
 Alvaro Uribe  to seek a third consecutive term.  
 “We are going to consolidate the democratic security
policy with total transparency, as well as respect for the
constitution and laws,” Rivera said yesterday on RCN television
network. He said he would not make any specific policy
announcements until Santos is sworn in on Aug. 7.  
 Before being elected senator in 1998, Rivera wrote a column
for La Tarde newspaper in his home state of Pereira and worked
for daily newspaper El Espectador. He is the author of two
 books : “Fragmented Colombia” and “Towards a New Federalism
for Colombia.”  
 He replaces  Gabriel Silva , who will take over as Colombia’s
ambassador to the U.S.  
 Santos also yesterday named former rival  German Vargas Lleras Interior  Minister.  
 Former Senator Vargas Lleras, 48, came in third with 10
percent behind Santos and Green Party candidate  Antanas Mockus 
in the first round of voting. His Radical Change party endorsed
Santos before he won 69 percent of votes in a runoff election in
June to replace Uribe.  
 Santos, as Uribe’s defense minister from 2006 to 2009,
delivered some of the biggest blows against the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia, including a 2008 air strike in Ecuador
that killed  Raul Reyes , the guerillas’ No.2 leader.  
 Uribe’s government, backed by more than $500 million in
annual U.S. aid, is credited with slashing the number of murders
to 15,817 last year from 28,837 in 2002 and one of the world’s
highest kidnapping rates by 93 percent to 213 last year compared
with 2,882 in 2002, the year he took office.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        