-- Rolls-Royce Predicts Higher Full-Year Profit on Costs, Ship Turbine Sales
-- Howard Mustoe
-- 2010-07-29T08:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/rolls-royce-group-says-it-slumps-into-first-half-net-loss-of-522-million.html

          
          
             Rolls-Royce Group Plc , the world’s
second-biggest engine maker, raised its full-year earnings
forecast, saying profit will be “modestly” higher than in 2009
as it reins in spending and boosts sales of ship turbines.  
 Improved cost controls and “strong trading” in the marine
business in the first half helped offset a reduction in
profitability at the jetliner-engines unit, where the market was
“subdued,” London-based Rolls said in a statement today.  
 “The nature of our business is very long cycle -- we lag
recessions going in, and we lag going out,” Chief Executive
Officer  John Rose  said on a conference call, adding that the
company’s performance in the first half was “robust.”  
 Adjusted net income slipped 3 percent in the six months to
346 million pounds ($541 million) from 362 million pounds a year
earlier, excluding the impact of currency hedges, in line with
the 345.8 million-pound estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 5.4 percent to 5.42 billion pounds.  
 CEO Rose said at the company’s annual meeting on April 29
that underlying profit would be “broadly similar” to 2009’s.  
 Rolls-Royce, which competes with General Electric Co. and
United Technologies Corp’s Pratt & Whitney unit in the aero-
engines market, rose 3.3 percent and was trading up 2 percent at
599.5 pence as of 8:39 a.m. in London. The stock has gained 26
percent this, valuing the company at 11.1 billion pounds.  
 Rolls reported a first-half loss of 334 million pounds, or
18.07 pence a share, compared with a profit of 1.86 billion
pounds, or 99.95 pence, a year earlier, including adjustments to
reflect the value of financial hedges unwound or “marked to
market” at the end of the period.  
 Sales jumped 11 percent to 1.34 billion pounds at the
marine unit, which makes power systems for the oil-exploration
industry, specialist vessels and warships, with underlying
profit advancing 55 percent to 171 million pounds.  
 Engine Question  
 Rose said it’s hard to make an argument for adding new
engines to Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. single-aisle jetliners as
the planemakers ponder whether to upgrade the planes or build
entirely new models.  
 “Boeing are really saying the right option is a better
aircraft later,” Rose said on a conference call. “In the case
of Airbus, what we’ve said is we can’t see a business case for
re-engining. If things change we would obviously review it.”  
 Rolls-Royce, one of 11 contractors slated to hold cost-
cutting discussions with Britain’s Ministry of Defence as Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government seeks to slash
spending, got a boost to its defense business yesterday with a
200 million-pound contract from India to power 57 BAE Systems
Plc Hawk trainer aircraft.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        