-- Romick Holds Cash Like Klarman in Top-Performing `Free-Range Chicken' Fund
-- Charles Stein
-- 2010-07-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/romick-holds-cash-like-klarman-in-top-performing-free-range-chicken-fund.html

          
          
             Steven Romick  says he aims to beat
the market when stocks are falling and underperform by a smaller
margin when they’re rising.  
 His $3.45 billion  FPA Crescent Fund  can buy shares as well
as bet against them, purchase investment-grade and junk bonds,
and hold almost half of assets in cash, a strategy Romick has
compared to a “free-range chicken.”  
 His picks have worked for investors, with average returns
of 11 percent a year in the decade ended June 30, better than 99
percent of the fund’s rivals, according to  Morningstar Inc. 
Romick says his priority since starting the fund in 1993 has
been to limit losses, rather than maximize returns, a view he
shares with  Seth Klarman , who made Baupost Group LLC the ninth
largest hedge fund while holding as much as 40 percent cash.  
 “If you buy an asset and you feel comfortable with it even
if the worst thing happens, then you are in a good position,”
Romick, 47, said in a telephone interview from Los Angeles.  
 A graduate of Northwestern University in Evanston,
Illinois, Romick began his fund at Crescent Management in Los
Angeles. He brought it to First Pacific Advisors LLC in 1996 at
the invitation of Chief Executive Officer  Robert Rodriguez .  
 Rodriguez’s $993 million  FPA Capital Fund  is the best-
performing U.S. diversified mutual fund over the past 25 years,
according to Morningstar. The fund, which had about 30 percent
of its assets in cash as of June 30, returned 9 percent annually
over the past decade.  
 ‘Sleep at Night’  
 “Steve’s constituency wants to earn a real rate of return
and still sleep at night,” Rodriguez, who is on a one-year
sabbatical from the firm, said in a telephone interview.  
 FPA Crescent has captured 80 percent of the gains of the
S&P 500 in months when the index rose and suffered 55 percent of
the losses when the index fell, according to Romick’s April 23
 newsletter .  
 The fund gained 11 percent a year from its 1993 inception
through March, compared with 8 percent for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of large U.S. stocks, according to the letter. FPA
Crescent had a third less  volatility  than the market benchmark.  
 To find investments worth owning, Romick says he looks at
the economy, industry and company trends, and meets the top
executives of his major holdings. His firm recently hired
 Elizabeth Douglass , a former business writer for the Los Angeles
Times, to help find assets off the beaten path.  
 Asset Allocation  
 Strategies where the fund manager is free to allot money to
different asset classes are unusual for mutual funds. Most funds
set strict limits on what a fund can buy, leaving the asset
allocation to investors and financial advisors.  
 “We like outsourcing the asset-allocation decision to
someone who does a good job of it,” said  Steven Roge , a
portfolio manager at R.W. Roge & Co., and an investor in FPA
Crescent. Roge, whose Bohemia, New York, firm oversees about
$200 million, said Romick has shown he can handle the freedom.  
 Hedge-fund-like strategies such as FPA Crescent’s may
attract clients after a decade of disappointing returns by
mutual funds, said  Burton Greenwald , a fund industry consultant
in Philadelphia. U.S. stock funds suffered withdrawals of $139
billion in the past 2 1/2 years, according to Morningstar.  
 Romick limited losses during the financial crisis by
putting almost half his assets in cash. His fund lost 21 percent
in 2008, compared with a decline of 37 percent for the S&P 500,
Bloomberg data show. Romick had 45 percent of assets in cash as
of Sept. 30, 2008, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The average equity fund has
less than 4 percent in cash, Morningstar data show.  
 45% Cash  
 When the S&P 500 lost 38 percent from 2000 through 2002,
FPA Crescent gained 46 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Romick avoided crumbling technology stocks while holding cash
and companies that climbed, including Houston-based oil driller
 Patterson-UTI Energy Inc.  and crafts seller Michael Stores Inc.
in Irving, Texas, he wrote in his newsletter.  
 Roge described FPA Crescent as “a hedge fund in disguise”
because of its ability to move among asset classes.  
 Ronald Sugameli , whose Wellesley, Massachusetts-based  New
Century Alternative Strategies Portfolio  has a stake in Romick’s
fund, acknowledges that letting a manager roam and hold
substantial cash carries risk.  
 “If the markets move and you are sitting in cash, you can
easily get left behind,” Sugameli said.  
 Romick, who serves as First Pacific’s managing partner,
said he currently favors energy stocks and large companies with
global franchises, while avoiding financial and consumer shares.  
 ‘Slow, Fat Pitches’  
 Two of Romick’s top 10 holdings as of June 30 were energy
stocks, Los Angeles-based  Occidental Petroleum Corp . and London-
based  Ensco Plc,  data compiled by Bloomberg show. Ensco, a
contract driller, has been among the fund’s top holdings since
2001, according to Romick’s newsletters. The shares have
advanced about 66 percent since the end of 2001.  
 Romick sold Houston, Texas-based  ConocoPhillips  in the
first quarter, taking a 15 percent loss on the investment.
ConocoPhillips made poor investment decisions, said Romick,
citing its participation in a $31 billion liquefied natural gas
venture in Australia.  
 The fund bought Occidental because the company has done
better than competitors at finding oil, he said. Occidental
shares are  down  3 percent this year.  
 When he doesn’t find investments he likes, Romick will hold
cash until he sees “slow, fat pitches in our strike zone,” he
told shareholders last year.  
 ‘Preparing for the Worst’  
 Romick increased his fixed-income holdings to 32 percent on
March 31, 2009, from 12 percent on Sept. 30, 2008, regulatory
filings show. He bought junk bonds and distressed debt, he said,
including issues from International Lease Finance Corp., the
aircraft-leasing subsidiary of New York-based  American
International Group Inc.   
 Even as stock prices reached a 12-year low in March 2009,
bonds were the better buy because they promised good returns
with limited risk, Romick said.  
 “We believe in preparing for the worst,” he said. “Bonds
were priced for a depression. Stocks were not.”  
 Klarman,  founder of the $22 billion Baupost Group LLC in
Boston, had a similar explanation for why he bought distressed
debt at the height of the financial crisis. The move made sense,
Klarman said in a May interview, because the bonds would have
paid off even if the U.S. economy experienced a much worse
decline, a scenario that probably would have sent stocks lower.  
 Lower Volatility  
 FPA Crescent’s lower volatility calms investors’ nerves and
makes them more likely to stick with the fund, said  Christopher Davis , an analyst for Morningstar. Research by Morningstar shows
that in funds with big performance swings, “investors come in
at the wrong time and bail out at the wrong time,” Davis said
in a telephone interview.  
 The size of the companies in Romick’s portfolio has risen
since the early days. The average weighted market value of stock
holdings grew to $39.7 billion at the end of the second quarter
from $1.2 billion in 1997, according to Romick.  
 Small-cap stocks sold for an average price-to-earnings
ratio of 16, compared with 13.6 for large stocks at the end of
June, according to Leuthold Group LLC, a Minneapolis research
firm. Leuthold defines large stocks as those with a market value
of more than $8.4 billion and small stocks as those from $255
million to $1.3 billion.  
 Changed Opportunities  
 The 18 percent premium investors are paying for small
stocks is near the widest since Leuthold began gathering the
data in December 1982, said  James Floyd , senior analyst at the
company. In 2000, small stocks sold at about a 40 percent
discount to large ones, Floyd said.  
 “The opportunity set has changed,” Romick said. Big
companies, along with being cheaper, are better positioned to
tap into faster-growing markets outside the U.S., he said.  
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s biggest retailer, was
Crescent Fund’s fifth-largest holding as of June 30, Bloomberg
data show. Shares of the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company,
which gets about a fourth of its revenue abroad, are down 4.3
percent in 2010.  
 The U.S. economy will “muddle along,” Romick said,
declining to give a more specific forecast. The economy will be
held back, he wrote in his newsletter, by higher taxes that will
be required to pay down the U.S. government’s budget deficit and
by consumers who may take years to reduce their debt burdens.  
 Shorts, or bets that stocks will go down, represented 5.5
percent of the portfolio at the end of the first quarter,
according to a May regulatory filing. Among the stocks Romick
sold short were  AutoNation Inc.,  a Fort Lauderdale, Florida-
based auto dealer, and  Capital One Financial Corp ., a McLean,
Virginia-based credit-card company.  
 Romick declined to discuss any of the stocks he has bet
against.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     First Pacific Advisors senior V.P. Steven Romick, Source: First Pacific Advisors. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
