-- Rubber Climbs to Two-Week High On Speculation China Demand to Keep Growing
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-29T07:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/rubber-climbs-to-two-week-high-on-speculation-china-demand-to-keep-growing.html

          
          
             Rubber advanced to a two-week high
on speculation that demand in China, the world’s largest
consumer, will keep growing after  Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd. 
said it will expand tire output in the nation.  
 Futures in Tokyo climbed as much as 2.1 percent to the
highest level since July 12. The price has gained 1.4 percent in
July, heading for the first monthly advance since March.  
 Sumitomo Rubber, Japan’s second-largest tire maker after
 Bridgestone Corp. , will invest $297 million to set up a factory
in Hunan province, the company said in a statement yesterday. It
will be the company’s second factory in China and start
production in July 2012, it said.  
 “The news added to expectations that China’s raw-material
demand will continue to grow, backed by a rapid expansion in the
nation’s economy,”  Hisaaki Tasaka , an analyst at broker ACE
Koeki Co. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  
 January-delivery rubber increased as much as 5.7 yen to
274.3 yen per kilogram ($3,138 a metric ton) on the Tokyo
Commodity Exchange before settling at 272.9 yen.  
 Gains in futures were limited as  Asian stocks  extended a
global decline after the Federal Reserve said U.S. economic
growth slowed in some areas, raising concern that the recovery
of the world’s largest economy may weaken.  
 “Economic activity has continued to increase, on balance,
since the previous survey,” the central bank said in its Beige
Book business survey, noting that two of the Fed’s 12 districts
reported the economy “held steady” and two said the pace of
expansion slowed.  
 ‘Unusually Uncertain’  
 The report underscored the Fed’s view that the recovery,
while still moving forward, is progressing at a slower pace than
earlier in the year. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
congressional testimony last week that the central bank expects
“continued moderate growth” and noted that the economic
outlook remains “unusually uncertain.”  
 Low inventory levels in China and Japan continued to
provide support to rubber prices, said Roka Komiya, a rubber
trader at Marubeni Corp. in Singapore. “That is the factor
driving gains of nearby contracts,” he said.  
 In the cash market, Thai prices extended gains as heavy
rains in the nation’s rubber-growing southern provinces limited
supply, according to the Rubber Research Institute of Thailand.
The price rose 1 percent to 103.4 baht ($3.21) per kilogram.  
 January-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
gained 1.8 percent to close at 23,735 yuan ($3,503) a ton.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        