-- Russia Unlikely to Sell Stakes in Big Companies in 2010, Nabiullina Says
-- Maria Levitov
-- 2010-07-29T15:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/russia-unlikely-to-sell-stakes-in-big-companies-in-2010-nabiullina-says.html

          
          
             The Russian government may not sell
large state assets in 2010 as it’s still discussing the list of
companies that may be put on offer, Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said.  
 “It’s unlikely that we’ll manage to put any of the major
companies up for sale this year,” Nabiullina told reporters in
Moscow today. The government may raise 72 billion rubles ($2.4
billion) from this year’s asset sales, she said on June 18.  
 The government may raise between 600 billion and 700
billion rubles from asset sales in 2011-2013 as it tries to
reduce a budget deficit, with 200 billion rubles coming next
year, Nabiullina said. Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  late
yesterday said the sales may bring in 883 billion rubles during
the three-year period, including 298 billion rubles in 2011.  
 Russia posted a budget deficit of 5.9 percent of GDP last
year, its first shortfall since 1999, as the economy contracted
a record 7.9 percent. In addition to asset sales, the government
may increase taxes on oil and natural gas extraction and some
metals exports, and tap bond markets to narrow the gap.  
 Nabiullina said the government will continue to discuss the
list of companies in which state stakes may be offered to
investors. Kudrin said a stake in OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest
oil producer, may be sold in three to five years.  
 Minority Stakes  
 The Finance Ministry has proposed selling minority stakes
in companies including Russia’s two largest lenders OAO Sberbank
and VTB Group, OAO Russian Railways, shipper OAO Sovcomflot, the
OAO RusHydro utility, Russian Agricultural Bank and OAO Agency
for Housing Mortgage Lending.  
 Sales of stakes in Russian Railways and the Agency for
Housing Mortgage Lending may be delayed for two to three years,
Kudrin said yesterday. He declined to name other companies in
which the government plans to sell stakes, saying the list
hasn’t been completed. The asset sales plan should be clarified
in September, with the list finished by year-end, he said.  
 The state will retain controlling stakes in any major
companies offered, Kudrin said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ekaterina Shatalova  in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net ;
 Maria Levitov  in Moscow at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        