-- Russia Credit Risk Slides Most in Four Months as Economic Growth Picks Up
-- Jack Jordan
-- 2010-07-30T09:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/russia-credit-risk-slides-most-in-four-months-as-economic-growth-picks-up.html

          
          
             The cost of protecting investors
from a default on Russian government bonds fell the most in four
months in July, helped by rising oil prices, accelerating
economic growth and a declining budget deficit.  
 Russia’s five-year credit-default swaps dropped 32 basis
points, or 0.32 percentage point, the biggest monthly decline
since March, to 164 as of yesterday. The move was more than the
21 basis-point retreat for Brazil contracts, 18 for Mexico and
14 for China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Investors are gaining confidence in Russia’s ability to
service its debt as the 15 percent rally in oil from this year’s
May 20 low boosts the recovery for the world’s biggest energy
exporter. The economy grew an annual 5.4 percent in the second
quarter, the government said this week, up from 2.9 percent in
the first three months of 2010. While default protection on
Russia remains 47 basis points more expensive than for  Brazil ,
whose debt is ranked lower by credit rating companies, the gap
narrowed from 58 at the end of last month.  
 “Russia is seen as being at the riskier end of emerging-
market assets, but you could argue that isn’t justified,” said
 Neil Shearing , senior emerging-market economist at London-based
research consultancy Capital Economics Ltd. “So long as the
global environment remains supportive, I’d expect CDS to keep
falling in Russia.”  
 GDP Grows  
 Russia may lift this year’s growth forecast after increased
domestic spending boosted gross domestic product in the second
quarter, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  told reporters
on July 27. The government currently forecasts a 4 percent
expansion for 2010.  
 Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said this week the budget
deficit should shrink to 3.6 percent of GDP next year, Interfax
reported. The gap was 5.9 percent in 2009 as the economy shrank
7.9 percent, the most since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.  
 Russia’s  foreign-currency bonds  returned 3.6 percent so far
this month, compared with a 2 percent advance for similarly
rated  Mexico  and 3.4 percent for Brazil, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes show. The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Russian
sovereign debt rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped 52 basis
points, the biggest monthly decline since December, to 231
yesterday, compared with 277 for emerging markets as a whole,
according to JPMorgan.  
 Eurobonds  
 Russia’s foreign-currency debt is rated BBB by Standard &
Poor’s, the same as Mexico’s and one level above Brazil’s.  
 Yields on the first Eurobonds issued by Russia since 1998
are at their lowest since the notes were sold in April. The 2020
dollar bonds rose 0.1 percent today to 100.8 cents on the
dollar, according to prices on Bloomberg.  
 The ruble weakened 0.3 percent against the dollar to
30.2551 after reaching the highest level since May 13 yesterday,
paring its advance in July to 3.3 percent. Non-deliverable
forwards, which provide a guide to expectations of currency
movements as they allow foreign investors and companies to fix
the exchange rate at a specific level in the future, show the
ruble at 30.4663 per dollar in three months.  
 The  Micex Index  of Russia’s largest stocks rose 8.3 percent
and shares in gas monopoly OAO  Gazprom  surged 15.1 percent this
month.  
 Emerging Debt  
 Russia is benefiting as investors turn to higher-yielding
assets on optimism the global economic recovery is gathering
momentum. Emerging-market bonds are headed for their best
monthly returns since September, gaining 4.3 percent, according
to JPMorgan indexes. Russia credit-default swaps may drop to 150
basis points, said  Nigel Rendell , senior emerging-market
strategist at RBC Capital in London.  
 The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The Reuters/Jeffries CRB Index of 19 raw materials rose
about 5 percent in July. Crude for September delivery gained
$1.39, or 1.8 percent, to $78.38 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Prices have risen 24 percent in
the past year and are up 3.9 percent this month.  
 “The trend we’ve seen over the past few weeks has come
from the international background,” Rendell said. “There’s an
appetite for risk out there.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
