-- Santander Second-Quarter Net Falls 8%, Hurt by Spain
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-07-29T16:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/santander-profit-falls-1-6-to-5-8-billion-underpinned-by-latin-america.html

          
          
             Banco Santander SA, (SAN)  the biggest
Spanish bank, said second-quarter  profit  fell 8 percent after a
drop in earnings in its home market offset growth in  Brazil .  
 Net income  declined to 2.23 billion euros ($2.9 billion)
from 2.42 billion euros a year earlier, the Santander-based
lender said in a filing to regulators today. That’s less than
the 2.28 billion-euro average  estimate  of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The bank has bought businesses in  Mexico , the U.S. and
 Germany  as Chairman Emilio Botin takes advantage of
opportunities to extend the lender’s reach across its nine main
markets. As credit demand falters and funding costs rise in the
aftermath of  Spain ’s worst recession in 60 years, Botin told
shareholders last month that Santander’s Brazilian earnings
would outstrip those at home for this first time this year.  
 Santander “gathered a lot of deposits and that has hit
margins a bit,” said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura
International in  Madrid  who has a “buy” rating on the shares.
Still, “expectations for Santander earnings are always very
high and they’ve come in slightly below consensus, but they’re
delivering on everything they said they would.”  
 Botin today repeated guidance given at the June 11
shareholders meeting that Santander’s earnings this year would
be “in the region” of last year’s profit of 8.94 billion
euros. The dividend will remain at about 60 cents per share, he
said in the statement.  
 U.K. Network  
 The bank is in the final stages of talks to buy about 300
branches in the U.K. from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
expects a “solution” in August, Chief Executive Officer
Alfredo Saenz told analysts on a webcast. Santander is also
studying the possible sale of a stake in its U.K. operations
while it hasn’t made any decision yet, he said.  
 Santander fell 1.6 percent to close at 10.26 euros in
Madrid trading, extending this year’s decline to 11 percent and
valuing the company at 84 billion euros. The 54-member Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index fell 0.6 percent
today.  
 The bank’s core capital, a measure of its ability to absorb
losses, dropped to 8.6 percent from 8.8 percent in the first
quarter, Santander said. Lenders in Spain are facing a squeeze
on margins as defaults mount, credit demand flags and loan books
re-price to reflect lower  interest rates .  
 Stress Results  
 Santander passed European  stress tests  that showed the bank
would have maintained its Tier 1 capital ratio at 10 percent in
the worst-case scenario.  
 Net interest income at the group level climbed 12 percent
to 7.38 billion euros, while net loan-loss provisions rose 2.7
percent to 2.48 billion euros. Lending increased an annual 4.9
percent, compared with a 0.3 percent decline in the first
quarter, as the bank also added 88.3 billion euros of deposits
in the first half of the year, the company said.  
 Bad loans as a proportion of total lending rose to 3.37
percent from 3.34 percent in March and 2.82 percent a year ago.
Net entries into default fell to 3.39 billion euros from 3.42
billion euros in the first quarter.  
 Saenz said that while defaults at the group level have
probably peaked, his prediction in February that Spanish
defaults would peak in the second or third quarter of this year
was off the mark. He said he now sees defaults peaking next year
at about 4.1 percent from 3.71 percent now.  
 ‘Deposit War’  
 Profit from Santander’s Spanish retail branch network fell
21 percent to 412 million euros as net interest income dropped 9
percent. The company offered a 4 percent yield on deposits as it
captured 30 billion euros from Spanish customers earlier this
year in a campaign that Saenz said today was “ life insurance ”
against stresses in the wholesale funding markets.  
 “Net interest income has taken a hit from the deposit
war,” said  Andrea Williams , who helps manage about 1 billion
pounds ($1.56 billion) including Santander shares at Royal
 London  Asset Management in London.  
 Earnings from the U.K. rose 11 percent to 527 million
euros. The bank said in a statement to U.K. regulators it would
hire over 600 workers in the second half of the year to
“support business growth.” Earnings from Brazil, where
Santander owns the  third-biggest  non-state-owned bank, climbed
32 percent to 691 million euros, Santander said.  
 Banco Espanol de Credito SA , a Santander-owned Spanish
retail bank run by Ana Patricia Botin, the chairman’s eldest
daughter, said on July 14 that second-quarter profit fell 14
percent.  
 Santander’s Sovereign unit in the U.S. earned 103 million
euros in the quarter, compared with a 7 million-euro loss a year
earlier.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pedestrians walk by a Banco Santander bank branch. Photographer: Susana Gonzalez/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
