-- Scor Quarterly Net Income Rises 32%, Driven by Higher Investment Returns
-- Fabio Benedetti-Valentini
-- 2010-07-29T16:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/scor-quarterly-net-income-rises-32-driven-by-higher-investment-income.html

          
          
             Scor SE , France’s largest reinsurer,
said second-quarter profit rose 32 percent after increasing
income from financial investments amid higher market volatility.  
  Net income  climbed to 120 million euros ($156 million) from
91 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said in
a statement today. That beat the 96 million-euro median estimate
of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 “It’s a positive quarter,” said  Jean d’Herbecourt , a
Paris-based analyst at CA Cheuvreux who has an “outperform”
rating on the stock. “But there are still gains on deferred
taxes and the level of investment income might not be
recurring.”  
 Scor rose 3.8 percent to 16.99 euros in Paris trading,
giving the reinsurer a market value of about 3.2 billion euros.
The stock has fallen 2.9 percent this year, trailing the 0.7
percent gain of the 29-member Bloomberg Europe 500 insurance
Index.  
 “The group is maintaining a ‘rollover strategy’ for its
fixed-income portfolio in order to have significant financial
cash flow to reinvest in the event of a sudden change in the
economic and financial environment,”  Scor  said. Invested assets
were 13.6 billion euros at the end of June, with 77 percent of
that in fixed income, according to the company’s website.  
 “It was a very good quarter at every level: for life
reinsurance margin, for non-life combined ratio and also for the
results coming from asset management,” Chief Executive Officer
 Denis Kessler  said in a phone interview. Investment income
increased, helped by dividends from stocks in the portfolio and
gains from bonds’ “active management,” he said.  
 Kessler, 58, declined to give any forecasts for the rest of
the year before Scor’s Sept. 8 investors’ day.  
 The combined ratio, which shows costs and payments for
claims as a percentage of premium income, was 102.8 percent in
the first half, Scor said. The company’s full-year combined
ratio should be below 100 percent, excluding exceptional events
and unbudgeted natural catastrophes in the third and fourth
quarter, it said.  
 Scor was hurt in the first quarter by a combined 150
million euros of losses from the earthquakes that struck Haiti
in January and Chile in February, as well as from a European
winter storm, the company has said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabio Benedetti-Valentini  in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        