-- Serbian Central Bank Governor Soskic Promises `Continuity,' Fine Tuning
-- Gordana Filipovic
-- 2010-07-29T12:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/serbian-central-bank-governor-soskic-promises-continuity-fine-tuning.html

          
          
             Serbia’s new central bank Governor
 Dejan Soskic  promised “continuity” in the Balkan nation’s
monetary policy, saying he would promote only “fine-tuning” to
strengthen the economy.  
 Soskic, who was approved for the post by Parliament
yesterday, is seeking to reassure investors and citizens that
National Bank of Serbia policy makers will concentrate on
keeping the recovery on track. Analysts have said he has little
other choice as the bank struggles to calm the dinar’s recent
volatility.  
 “One of the early steps will be monetary policy
continuity, with fine-tuning of a system in which Serbia can
improve its macroeconomic balance, primarily in domestic savings
and investments,” Soskic said today in Belgrade.  
 Speaking on state television last night after Parliament
confirmed his appointment, Soskic said exchange rate of the
dinar was “not irrelevant” for the bank and it will be
monitoring the currency’s effect on prices and financial
stability.  
 “The central bank has very, very restricted room to
maneuver, and the only possible difference could be in the
frequency and volume of their market interventions,” said Zoran
Petrovic, Deputy Chairman of  Raiffeisenbank  in Belgrade.  
 The currency, which has lost more than 11 percent since
January, was trading at 106.3 dinars to the euro at 14:40 p.m.
in Belgrade, little changed from yesterday.  
 Dinar Orientation  
 “We still see a risk that the gradual depreciation” of
the dinar “will continue in the near term due to the lack of
capital inflows, but a more FX-oriented central bank governor
may of course slow down the weakening,” said  Elisabeth Andreew ,
chief foreign-currency strategist at Nordea Markets, in a note
from Copenhagen.  
 The central bank manages the dinar’s movements on the
market as part of its inflation targeting policy, designed to
bring inflation closer to European Union levels. It has spent
more than 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) so far this year on the
interbank market to stem the national currency’s losses.  
 Sonja Miladinovski , a board member charge of treasury
activities at Societe Generale Bank in Belgrade, said the main
concern was how fast the weaker dinar worked itself into the
inflation rate. She said that commercial banks will “continue
to service their clients regardless of the dinar level.”  
 Hard Currency Demand  
 “Demand for hard currencies is not unusually high, the
market liquidity thinned, and hard currency inflows from
remittances or through foreign exchange offices are insufficient
to cover short-term demand,” said Miladinovski, who is also
president of Serbia’s ACI association of foreign exchange
traders.  
 Alen Kovac , research analyst at Zagreb-based Erstebank,
said that interest rate increases and market interventions
cannot be ruled out.  
 “The market sentiment is still for the weaker dinar and
the central bank could become even more concerned about the
exchange rate,” Kovac said. “Fundamentals, however, do not
point to any significant weakening of the dinar.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        