-- Shell Posts Higher Profit on Oil Prices, Production
-- Fred Pals
-- 2010-07-29T15:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/shell-profit-advances-on-oil-prices-as-output-held-back-in-canada-nigeria.html

          
          
             Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s
largest oil company, posted a 15 percent increase in second-
quarter profit on higher oil prices and production as it
exceeded a target for cost savings.  
 Net income rose to $4.39 billion from $3.82 billion a year
earlier, The Hague-based  Shell  said today in a statement.
Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, earnings beat
analyst estimates.  
 Peter Voser , in his second year as chief executive officer,
expects to double asset sales to as much as $8 billion by the
end of 2011. Cost savings of $3.5 billion beat an earlier target
by about 15 percent and were completed early, resulting in 7,000
job reductions 18 months ahead of schedule.  
 “Overall, it’s a reasonable performance,”  Jason Kenney ,
an Edinburgh-based analyst at ING Wholesale Banking, said by
phone.  
 The results follow a record  loss  for BP after Shell’s close
rival set aside about $30 billion earlier this week to pay for
cleanup costs and liabilities arising from the Macondo well
disaster. Shell will study any assets put up for sale by BP,
Voser said on a conference call.  
 Excluding one-time items and inventory changes, Shell’s
 earnings  were $4.21 billion. That beat the $4.08 billion median
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Production rose 5
percent to 3.11 million barrels of oil equivalent a day.  
 Mixed Signals  
 Voser cautioned that the outlook for earnings and cashflow
remain uncertain due to “mixed signals” in the global economy.  
 “Oil prices have remained firm so far this year, but
refining margins, oil products demand and natural gas spot
prices all remain under pressure,” he said in the statement.  
 Shell’s Class A shares  traded  in London fell 0.2 percent to
1,783.5 pence. The stock is down 5.2 percent this year, compared
with a 31 percent decline for BP, which at one point lost more
than half its market value on concerns over the mounting cost of
containing the leak.  
 Voser is targeting hard-to-reach rock formations in
Australia, China and the U.S, as well as projects in Qatar, to
boost  production  growth. As much as 40 percent of the company’s
capital spending in the next few years has been earmarked for
the Asia Pacific region. This year has already seen startups in
the Gulf of Mexico and Brazil with Perdido and the BC-10
project, while the Sakhalin project in Russia has beaten
production goals.  
 Higher Costs  
 Producers including  Shell  face higher costs following a
U.S. clampdown on offshore drilling arising from the oil spill.
Shell has the most rigs affected by the ban. “Our estimate for
the full-year impact of the moratorium is around $200 million
after tax,” Chief Financial Officer  Simon Henry  told investors
on a conference call.  
 The company idled five floating rigs and two platform rigs
in the Gulf of Mexico and Alaska, leading to a charge of $56
million in the second quarter,  Henry  said. Rig rates and
services were renegotiated and in some cases cut by 60 percent
to 70 percent because of the moratorium, he said. Production
from Perdido, shut down in April for maintenance, will resume in
October.  
 Shell  is still seeking to dispose of 15 percent of its
refining capacity and is selling retail assets in Africa and
Latin America, putting a total of 35 percent of its current
retail markets under review. Voser is assessing more than 35
projects that may add 8 billion barrels of oil equivalent
resources, boosting production until 2020.  
 Adding Gas  
 Shell, which has been adding more gas than oil to its
resources since 2005, expects the share of gas as a proportion
of total output to rise to 52 percent in 2012.  
 Shell’s  output  at the Athabasca oil sand project in Canada
was affected by maintenance. The unit restarted last month.
Production was also disrupted by the suspension of pumping at
the offshore EA field in Nigeria.  
 Crude prices averaged $78.05 a barrel in New York in the
three months ending June, an increase of 31 percent from a year
earlier.  
 Refining margins are picking up after averaging $5.49 in
the second quarter from $3.08 in the first three months of the
year, according to BP’s Global Indicator Margin, a broad measure
of the profitability of turning crude into fuels.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Pals  in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The results follow a record loss for BP  
                       
                         
                           Jock Fistick/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Royal Dutch Shell Plc. chief executive officer Peter Voser. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Royal Dutch Shell Plc. chief executive officer Peter Voser. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
