-- Shift to Houses Helps U.K. Homebuilders Overcome Weakening Property Market
-- Tim Barwell
-- 2010-07-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/shift-to-houses-helps-u-k-homebuilders-overcome-weakening-property-market.html

          
          
             U.K. homebuilders reacted to the
financial crisis by switching from apartments to single-family
homes. After a year, the shift is paying off in rising profit
margins, helping companies overcome a weakening property market.  
 The move away from apartments, combined with a 60 percent
drop in land prices, may lift operating profit margins in the
industry to about 15 percent in three to four years, said  Chris Millington , an analyst at Numis Securities in London. That would
be the highest since the market’s peak in 2007.  
 Homebuilders started increasing the proportion of houses,
reversing a decade-long decline, after banks cut mortgage
lending and the buy-to-let market collapsed. That’s allowing
companies to make more money from each sale while targeting
buyers who want to live in the property they purchase, instead
of renting it out.  
 Margins more than doubled from a year earlier at Barratt
Developments Plc, the U.K.’s biggest homebuilder by volume, as
an increase in the proportion of houses boosted selling prices
by 18 percent. Sixty percent of the properties it sold in the 12
months through June were houses, up from 46 percent a year
earlier, the company said on July 14.  
 “Houses don’t lock up as much capital as apartments, as
you can build them in phases so it doesn’t tie up as much work
in progress,” Millington said in an interview.  
 New houses tend to fetch higher prices than secondhand
ones, while that’s no longer the case for apartments. A decade
ago, the premium for new apartments was 55 percent, according to
property researcher Hometrack. It remains at about 15 percent
for new houses.  
 Planning Changes  
 Persimmon Plc, the third-largest U.K. homebuilder by
volume, earmarked 85 percent of its plots for houses, the
company said July 6. In 2007, the level was about 70 percent.
First-half operating margins increased to 7.5 percent from 1.5
percent a year earlier, beating analyst estimates.  
 “Persimmon has a low risk to the high rise apartment
market,” Chief Executive Officer  Mike Farley  said in an
interview. “We took the opportunity last year to clear some of
our high rise schemes and are focusing on traditional housing.”  
 At Taylor Wimpey, the U.K.’s second-largest homebuilder by
volume, about 23 percent of its land is slated for flats after
revising planning and buying land already intended for houses.
In 2007, the company got 40 percent of its sales from
apartments.  
 What People Want  
 “Houses are cheaper to build as you need less steel frames
and things, and it’s less problematic,” said  Rachael Waring , an
analyst at Panmure Gordon from Liverpool. “More importantly,
people want to live in houses and not flats.”  
 The rise in apartment building was driven by a 19-fold
increase in the buy-to-let market from 1997 to 2007. That market
has been significantly reduced, Waring said.  
 Widening margins will help the homebuilders stay profitable
if the market starts to deteriorate starting in the second half
of the year, as some analysts predict.  
 U.K. house prices will fall through 2012 as the deepest
public-spending cuts since World War II and tighter credit
conditions deter potential buyers, Capital Economics Ltd. said
on July 16. Home values will drop 5 percent this year and 10
percent in each of the next two years, said economists at the
research company including  Roger Bootle  and  Ed Stansfield .  
 Cheap Land  
 The companies have girded themselves against a slump by
adding to their land holdings after the recession drove down
prices. All of the publicly traded house builders except
Persimmon have sold shares to raise funds for land. Barratt
spent 527 million pounds on land in the last year.  
 Profit margins will increase as builders develop more of
the newly acquired land, especially if most of it is used for
houses. Barratt said that by 2014, its land bank will be
dominated by property purchased since mid-2009. The company
bought about 25 percent of its land holdings in the last year.  
 The forecasts for growing margins may be unrealistic, said
 Robin Hardy , an analyst at KBC Peel Hunt in London.  
 “All the modeling for the sector has expected perpetual
goodness,” he said in an interview. “If house prices conspire
against them, then rebuilding margins becomes increasingly
difficult.”  
 Barratt, Persimmon and Taylor Wimpey have all declined
more than 80 percent in London trading since the beginning of
2007. The U.K. benchmark FTSE 100 Index has fallen 12.5 percent
in that period.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Barwell  in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A builder lays brickwork using a trowel and cement on a construction site. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A builder works on the construction of a residential property for Persimmon plc. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
