-- Siemens Gives More Optimistic Outlook as Profit Beats Estimate
-- Richard Weiss
-- 2010-07-29T10:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/siemens-gives-more-optimistic-outlook-as-profit-beats-estimate.html

          
          
             Siemens AG , Europe’s largest
engineering company, raised its full-year profit outlook after
quarterly income rose 40 percent, beating analysts’ estimates.  
 Sector profit, or operating income at Siemens’s energy,
health-care and industry divisions, advanced to a record 2.33
billion euros ($3 billion) in the  quarter  ended June 30, as the
company benefited from a rebound in demand and cost savings.
That compared with a 2.14 billion-euro estimate from a Bloomberg
survey of 10 analysts.  
 Sector profit this year will “clearly exceed” last year’s
7.47 billion euros, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said
in a statement, raising earnings guidance for the second time
this year. The company had previously forecast that it would
“exceed” last year’s figure.  
 Siemens is scheduled to end a program that placed as many
as 19,000 workers on shorter shifts as factories  grappled  with
lower demand during the financial crisis. Germany’s VDMA machine
makers’ association, which had predicted stagnant output this
year, switched to a growth forecast of 3 percent on July 20
following a surge in May.  
 Net income  rose 12 percent to 1.41 billion euros, Munich-
based Siemens said. Orders rose 22 percent to 20.87 billion
euros, compared with the analysts’ estimate of 19.1 billion
euros.  
 The results mark “another first-class quarter” for
Siemens, Morgan Stanley analyst  Ben Uglow  wrote in a note to
clients. He rates the shares “equal-weight” and expects them
to rise to 82 euros within a year. Analysts’ earnings estimates
should be revised upwards, he said.  
 Scaling Back  
 Siemens is continuing efforts to scale back some
businesses, including cutting 4,200 jobs at its SIS computer-
services division, where it lost 81 million euros in the
quarter. The company is in the process of carving out the
business and said it may sell it at a later stage.  
 The German maker of trains, turbines and body scanners has
advanced 18 percent this year in Frankfurt trading, giving it a
 market value  of 69 billion euros.  General Electric Co. ’s shares
have gained 6.9 percent this year.  
 Siemens’s order backlog swelled to a record 89 billion
euros, helped by the company’s renewable energy unit, which at
2.27 billion euros booked the highest intake among company units
in the quarter.  
 Diagnostics Unit  
 Siemens’ diagnostics unit was “highly profitable” in the
quarter at an operating margin of 17.4 percent, and no decision
about a possible goodwill writedown has been made yet, Chief
Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said. The unit, built by purchases
of Dade Behring Holdings Inc., Diagnostic Products Corp. and
Bayer AG’s diagnostics business, had goodwill of 5.51 billion
euros as of Sept. 30, 2009, and revenue growth has been slower
than originally expected, Kaeser said.  
 Siemens first raised its  outlook  for full-year earnings on
April 29, spurred by growth in emerging markets and a recovery
in short-cycle businesses like light bulbs. Profitability this
year will also benefit from lower charges to reorganize some
businesses as the economic recovery supports demand, the company
said.  
 The company cut about 16,000 jobs in the 15 months though
March and Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  is in the
process of eliminating another 4,900 jobs at the industry-
solutions division by 2011.  
 Both GE and  Alstom SA , the world’s third-largest power-
equipment maker, have suffered from fewer orders among customers
in the power industry.  Royal Philips Electronics NV , the world’s
biggest lighting company, forecast sales growth will slow in the
second half.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Peter Loescher, president and chief executive officer of Siemens AG, speaks at a news conference in New Delhi. Photographer: Pankaj Nangia/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Siemens AG Chief Executive Officer Peter Loescher talks about the company's third-quarter profit and outlook for full-year earnings.
     Europe's largest engineering company raised its outlook after quarterly income rose 40 percent, beating analysts’ estimates. Loescher speaks from Munich with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
