-- Singapore Says `High Levels' of Economic Activity May Spur Price Pressure
-- Shamim Adam
-- 2010-07-29T06:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/singapore-says-high-economic-activity-may-spur-further-price-pressures.html

          
          
             Singapore, which had a record first-
half expansion, said  economic activity  will probably remain at
“high levels” for the rest of the year, adding pressure on
business costs and spurring inflation.  
 Growth is supported by a broad range of industries that
will remain “largely intact” in 2010, the  Monetary Authority
of Singapore  said in its annual report today. The central bank
said it will issue as much as S$20 billion ($15 billion) in
bills starting next year as a new instrument in money-market
operations to help lenders manage liquidity.  
 Singapore’s economy is in contention to be the world’s
fastest-expanding in 2010 as rising demand for goods and
services prompted the government to raise growth forecasts three
times this year and led the central bank to allow currency
gains. The outlook is clouded by European governments’ austerity
programs to cut budget deficits and cooling household spending
in some of the world’s largest economies.  
 “For Singapore, the underlying support for growth for the
rest of 2010 is expected to remain largely intact and economic
activity is likely to be sustained at high levels,” the central
bank said in the report. “However, if the crisis in Europe
worsens, financial contagion spreads and the functioning of the
international credit markets becomes impaired, downside risks to
global growth could intensify.”  
 Policy Stance  
 Singapore’s central bank, also known as the MAS, has for
three decades used the currency rather than a benchmark interest
rate as its main tool for managing inflation. At its April
monetary policy review, the central bank said it would shift the
Singapore dollar to a stronger range to trade in and allow a
gradual appreciation.  
 While inflation is forecast to pick up toward the latter
part of the year, “at this stage, we assess that the current
monetary policy stance of a modest and gradual appreciation” of
the currency band remains appropriate, Managing Director  Heng Swee Keat  said. The central bank predicts inflation will
probably average between 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent this year.  
 Singapore’s  inflation  is likely to accelerate and policy
makers should stay vigilant on the outlook for growth and
prices, which may require the “further calibration” of
monetary policy, the  International Monetary Fund  said July 23.
In its annual assessment of the country’s economy, the IMF said
the Singapore dollar appears “somewhat weaker” than its
medium-term equilibrium level.  
 The currency rose as much as 1.2 percent versus its U.S.
counterpart on April 14, the day of the last monetary policy
review. It was little changed at S$1.3656 as of 2:28 p.m. in
Singapore today.  
 Capital Flows  
 The central bank has sufficient flexibility to cope with
capital flows, and the Singapore dollar is trading
“comfortably” within the policy band, deputy managing director
 Ong Chong Tee  told reporters today.  
 “Given the strong economic performance of Singapore and
the Asian region, we expect international capital to enter Asia
in search of investment opportunities,” Standard Chartered Plc
analysts  Edward Lee  and  Tai Hui  wrote in a report today. The new
central bank bills “will provide another tool for money-market
operations and help the central bank manage liquidity conditions
more effectively,” they said.  
 Singapore’s consumer prices rose for a sixth month in June
as an increase in car and electricity prices pushed
transportation and housing costs higher.  
 Price Pressure  
 “With the economy set to remain at relatively high levels
of activity, rising business costs could put upward pressure on
the prices of a wide range of goods and services,” the central
bank said.  
 The government expects the Southeast Asian island’s  economy 
to expand 13 percent to 15 percent in 2010. Growth accelerated
to 18.1 percent in the first half, the fastest pace since
records began in 1975.  
 “The strong pace of growth seen in the first half of this
year is not expected to be sustained,” Heng told reporters in
Singapore today. “Growth is likely to have peaked at the middle
of this year, and will moderate to a more sustainable rate, as
external demand slows after the post-crisis bounce from stimulus
measures and inventory effects wane worldwide.”  
 The MAS bills next year will be the central bank’s fourth
instrument for its money-market operations, Heng said. The
central bank will commence issuing the short-term MAS bills to
lenders in the second quarter of 2011, with tenors of up to
three months, to boost the “availability of liquid securities
to banks,” he said.  
 Currently, Singapore uses foreign-exchange swaps,
borrowings and repos in its money-market operations. The so-
called MAS bills will be negotiable, so banks needing liquidity
can sell them or pledge them as collateral in interbank repo
markets as well as the MAS Standing Facility, Heng said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        