-- SK Telecom Profit Rises 17% as Smartphone Demands Drives Up Wireless Bills
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-29T03:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/sk-telecom-profit-rises-17-as-smartphone-demands-drives-up-wireless-bills.html

          
          
             SK Telecom Co. , South Korea’s
largest mobile-phone operator, reported second-quarter profit
climbed 17 percent as demand for computer-like smartphones drove
up wireless Internet bills.  
 Net income  increased to 364 billion won ($306 million) in
the three months ended June 30 from 311.6 billion won a year
earlier, while sales rose 0.7 percent, Seoul-based SK Telecom
said today. Analysts expected profit of 410 billion won,
according to the average of nine estimates in the last 28 days
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Wireless-Internet sales increased 6.4 percent, led by
demand from customers switching to smartphones that send e-
mails, download mapping data and surf websites. Earnings may
extend their gains after the company became the nation’s
exclusive carrier offering  Samsung Electronics Co. ’s Galaxy S
phone, which is selling faster than Apple Inc.’s iPhone in
Korea, according to analysts including  Yang Jong In .  
 “The Galaxy S is getting a lot of attention, and we expect
the momentum to continue to boost earnings in the third and
fourth quarters,” Yang at Korea Investment & Securities Co. in
Seoul said before the earnings announcement. “Smartphones,
including the Galaxy S were definitely a positive factor last
quarter.”  
 SK Telecom is betting on wireless Internet sales and new
businesses to help offset stalling revenue growth in a market
where more than 95 percent of people own a mobile phone.  
 Shares Rise  
 The  carrier  rose 1.5 percent to 168,500 won at 12:03 p.m.
in Seoul trading, trimming the stock’s loss this year to 0.6
percent. The benchmark Kospi index declined 0.2 percent.  
 SK Telecom said July 14 it plans to roll out the nation’s
first fourth-generation services next year to give smartphone
customers faster access to the Internet.  
 The company sold 500,000 Galaxy S handsets within a month
of being offered on June 24, four times faster than it took
rival KT Corp. to sell the same number of iPhone 3GS phones, Kim
Dae Woong, SK’s public relations manager, said by phone
yesterday. SK Telecom also started selling smartphones such as
Samsung’s Galaxy A and Pantech Co Ltd’s Sirius phones during the
second quarter.  
 KT  will offer the iPhone 4 within one or two months, the
company said last week. The new model’s popularity will probably
help boost overall demand for smartphones, including those
offered by SK Telecom, instead of prompting customers to leave
the carrier to switch to the iPhone, Daishin Securities Co. said
in a report on July 8.  
 Selling Smartphones  
 SK Telecom plans to sell 2.5 million smartphones this year,
up from a previous estimate of 2 million, the company said on
July 14.  
 Smartphones sales in South Korea may reach 5 million units
this year compared with less than 1 million in 2009, according
to  Baek Jong Suk , an analyst at Hyundai Securities Co. in Seoul.  
 Second-quarter operating profit rose 5.2 percent to 582.1
billion won as revenue increased 0.7 percent to 3.09 trillion
won, SK Telecom said.  
 Marketing spending, which includes the cost of advertising
and subsidizing users’ handset payments, rose 6.5 percent to 887
billion won, SK Telecom said. Analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey projected the expenses would be 845.6 billion won.  
 The  Korea Communications Commission  said in March it will
require phone companies to limit marketing spending to 22
percent of total revenue in 2010 and 20 percent from next year
to help ease competition. The company’s operating profit fell in
the past two quarters after marketing costs rose.  
 “Smartphone-driven data revenue growth and more rational
marketing competition under government regulation should serve
as share price drivers going forward,”  Stanley Yang , a Seoul-
based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Seoul, wrote in a
report July 16. Yang has a buy rating on SK Telecom’s stock.  
 SK Telecom accounted for 51 percent of the Korean mobile-
phone market at the end of June, compared with KT’s 31 percent
and LG Telecom Ltd.’s 18 percent, according to monthly
government data.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        