-- Sony, Panasonic Withstand Strong Yen With Forecasts
-- Maki Shiraki
-- 2010-07-30T08:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/sony-panasonic-defy-european-crisis-stronger-yen-with-higher-forecasts.html

          
          
             Sony Corp.  and Panasonic Corp., the
world’s largest consumer-electronics makers, signaled Japanese
technology companies are withstanding slowing European demand
and the stronger yen after raising their earnings  forecasts .  
 Hitachi Ltd., Mitsubishi Electric Corp. and Tokyo Electron
Ltd. also lifted their profit projections today, citing higher
earnings from components and machinery. Earlier this week,
Fujitsu Corp. and Sanyo Electric Co. increased their forecasts,
while Canon Inc. and  Toshiba Corp.  delivered profits that
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  
 The improving profits, driven by demand for televisions and
chips used in products such as  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone, may ease
concern that the yen, trading at an eight-month high against the
dollar, will prevent Japanese electronics makers from competing
against South Korean rivals. Panasonic and Toshiba said sales in
North America and Japan expanded, helping the manufacturers
withstand the European sovereign debt crisis.  
 “The results were better than I thought they would be,”
said  Hideo Arimura , who helps oversee $2.2 billion at Mizuho
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The strong yen in the previous
quarter really threw things into disarray, but I really feel
they did well considering the gain in the currency.”  
 Sony, which announced its forecast yesterday, rose 3.6
percent to close at 2,705 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
highest since June 4. Panasonic gained 6 percent and Fujitsu
advanced 4.4 percent. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
dropped 1.6 percent.  
 Flat-Panel TV Sales  
 Sony, the Tokyo-based maker of Bravia TVs, raised its full-
year  profit forecast  20 percent to 60 billion yen ($695 million)
and Panasonic revised its projection by 70 percent to 85 billion
yen after they both posted first-quarter earnings that exceeded
analysts’ estimates. Both cited better-than expected sales of
flat-panel TVs for their improved outlook.  
 While corporate earnings may signal consumers are
unleashing demand pent up during the world’s deepest postwar
recession, U.S. indicators suggest consumption in the world’s
largest economy will be hurt by joblessness. A survey this week
showed consumer confidence at a five-month low.  
 There are signs demand may weaken in Japan too. The jobless
rate unexpectedly climbed to a seven-month high of 5.3 percent
in June, according to a statistics bureau report today. Consumer
prices excluding fresh food declined 1 percent from a year
earlier.  
 Recovery or Depression?  
 Economists are debating the recovery’s strength, with the
International Monetary Fund seeing a sustained rebound and Nobel
laureate  Paul Krugman  predicting a depression.  
 Threatening Japanese exporters’ ability to ride on the back
of a recovery is the yen, which has gained 18 percent against
the euro and 7.7 percent versus the dollar, making it the best-
performing major currency this year. A stronger domestic
currency erodes the value of overseas earnings when repatriated.  
 “We still cannot wipe out uncertainties for the future,
including the currency,” Sony Chief Financial Officer  Masaru Kato  said in Tokyo yesterday. “Still, the first-quarter results
were much stronger than we had expected and we aim to maintain
the momentum through the rest of the fiscal year.”  
 Stronger Yen  
 Sony and Canon this week said they expect the yen will be
14 percent stronger against the euro than they estimated three
months ago, projecting the Japanese currency will average 110
yen against the 16-nation currency during the rest of the fiscal
year. Panasonic revised its projection for the Japanese currency
against the euro to 112 yen from 120 yen.  
 Sony, which generates more than 70 percent of  revenue 
outside Japan, loses about 7 billion yen of annual operating
profit for each yen decline in the value of the euro and 2
billion yen for every 1 yen weakening in the dollar, according
to the company.  
 Higher earnings are also the product of cost reductions.
Sony has closed down 11 factories and eliminated about 20,000
jobs in the past two years, while cutting 20 percent of
procurement costs and 330 billion yen of expenses last fiscal
year. Panasonic slashed almost 30,000 jobs in the 12 months
ended Sept 30, trimmed 371.5 billion yen off fixed costs and
saved 453 billion yen of other expenses last fiscal year.  
 Beyond Japan  
 The recovery at technology companies stretches beyond
Japan.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , the largest
contract manufacturer of chips, yesterday reported record profit
and boosted its spending budget by 20 percent. Intel Corp., the
largest chipmaker, earlier this month forecast record profit.  
 “All our business segments are showing robust growth
despite the difficult situation where we still see possibilities
of weakening economy in the U.S. and Europe,”  Makoto Uenoyama ,
director of finance at Osaka-based Panasonic, said yesterday.  
 Fujitsu, Japan’s biggest computer-services provider,
yesterday said net income in the six months to Sept. 30 will
probably total 15 billion yen, triple its earlier projection.  
 Sanyo , the world’s biggest maker of rechargeable batteries,
this week more than doubled its estimate for first-half
operating income, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, citing stronger sales of solar panels
and electronic components.  
 Hitachi, Japan’s No.3 company by revenue, raised its first-
half profit forecast 82 percent to 100 billion yen, while
Mitsubishi Electric raised its earnings projection by 29
percent. Tokyo Electron, the world’s second-largest maker of
semiconductor equipment, raised its annual profit outlook 15
percent, citing better-than-expected chip demand.  
 Nintendo, NEC  
 Not all Japanese companies are posting higher earnings.
 Nintendo Co. , the world’s largest maker of video-game consoles,
yesterday reported its first quarterly loss in more than two
years, hurt by the stronger yen and declining sales of DS
handheld players.  
 A day earlier,  NEC Corp.,  Japan’s largest maker of personal
computers, reported its first-quarter loss unexpectedly widened
and said the costs of reorganizing the company may increase.  
 Competition may be intensifying. South Korea’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. , the world’s largest TV maker, said on July 7 it
posted record operating income last quarter.  
 The company’s operating profit totaled about 5 trillion won
($4.2 billion) in the three months ended June, more than five
times the amount earned by Sony and more than quadruple the
earnings at Panasonic. Net income jumped 83 percent to a record
4.28 trillion won as sales rose 17 percent, Samsung said today.  
 “Good results this year won’t be good enough,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer of Fukoku Capital Management in
Tokyo. “They have to pursue that and show to the market that
their business model is capable of coping with Korean
manufacturers.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
 Maki Shiraki  in Tokyo at 
 mshiraki1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Sony, the Tokyo-based maker of Bravia TVs, raised its full-year profit forecast 20 percent to 60 billion yen ($690 million) and Panasonic revised its projection by 70 percent to 85 billion
yen after they both posted first-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Melissa Otto, director of TIAA-CREF Investment Management, discusses the outlook for Sony Corp. and her investment strategy.
     Otto talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Christian Takushi, a fund manager at Swisscanto Asset Management AG, talks about Sony Corp.'s first-quarter profit and the performance of Chief Executive Officer Howard Stringer.
     Takushi, speaking from Zurich, also discusses Nintendo Co.'s first quarterly loss in more than two years. He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Pelham Smithers, managing director of Pelham Smithers Associates, talks about Sony Corp.'s profitability and outlook.
     The world’s No.3 television maker raised its full-year earnings forecasts after sales of TVs and game consoles helped the company to an unexpected profit last quarter. Smithers speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
