-- Sony Raises Profit Forecast, Citing Demand for TVs, Consumer Electronics
-- Mariko Yasu
-- 2010-07-29T07:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/sony-posts-quarterly-profit-increases-annual-net-income-forecast-by-20-.html

          
          
             --  Sony Corp. , the world’s No.3
television maker, raised its full-year earnings forecasts after
sales of TVs and game consoles helped the company to an
unexpected profit last quarter.  
 Net income  will probably be 60 billion yen ($688 million)
in the year ending March 2011, compared with an earlier
projection of 50 billion yen, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement today. Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and administrative expenses, may be 180 billion yen,
compared with the 160 billion yen forecast in May.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer  has started to
focus on new products as the global economic recovery revives
consumer demand. The maker of Bravia TVs in May unveiled the
prototype of a set that will deliver video and music over the
Internet in partnership with  Google Inc.  and started selling 3-D
TVs in the U.S., Europe and Japan last month.  
 “Demand for TVs continued to be strong in China and Japan
and Sony has sold its new models without cutting prices
significantly,”  Yasuo Nakane , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG said before the results were announced. He has a “hold”
 rating  on the stock.  
 Sony  added 0.1 percent to close at 2,611 yen in Tokyo
trading before the announcement, narrowing its  loss this year  to
2.2 percent.  Panasonic Corp. , Sony’s closest domestic rival, has
lost 19 percent, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
has declined 8.1 percent this year.  Samsung Electronics Co.  has
advanced 3.5 percent.  
 Analysts’ Estimates  
 The  average  of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
was for net income of 67 billion yen and operating profit of 161
billion yen on 7.5 trillion yen of revenue.  
 First-quarter net income totaled 25.7 billion yen, compared
with a 37.1 billion yen loss recorded a year earlier, Sony said.
The median estimate by six analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a shortfall of 18 billion yen.  
 The  Consumer Products and Devices Group , Sony’s biggest
division by revenue making TVs, Cyber-shot cameras and Handycam
video recorders, posted a profit of 50.1 billion yen in the
three months ended June, compared with an 8.9 billion yen
shortfall a year earlier, the company said. Sales at the unit
rose 7 percent to 889.5 billion yen.  
 TV Sales Forecast  
 Sony  kept unchanged its May projection to sell 25 million
TVs and 23 million compact digital cameras this fiscal year.
Sony, which aims to make its TV business profitable during the
period for the first time in seven years, targets a 20 percent
share of global liquid-crystal-display TV set sales in the year
ending March 2013.  
 The Networked Products and Services Group, which handles
 PlayStation  games, VAIO computers and Walkman media players,
recorded a loss of 3.8 billion yen, narrower than the 36.7
billion yen shortfall a year earlier as sales of personal
computers and PS3 consoles and software boosted revenue 32
percent, Sony said.  
 Sony maintained its target to sell 15 million PS3 consoles,
about 196 million game titles and 8.8 million PCs.  
 Global shipments of LCD TVs may rise 24 percent to more
than 180 million units in 2010, Austin, Texas-based researcher
DisplaySearch said in March. The shipments jumped 50 percent to
40.6 million units in the quarter ended March, it  said  last
month.  
 Digital Cameras  
 Worldwide shipments of digital cameras rose 21 percent to
641 billion yen in the first five months this year from a year
earlier, according to the  Camera & Imaging Products Association .  
 The company maintained its forecast for a 5 percent
increase in annual sales to 7.6 trillion yen. It kept unchanged
its assumptions for the yen’s exchange rate to the
dollar at 90 yen and revised the rate to the euro to 110 yen
from 125 yen for the nine months from July 1.  
 Japan’s largest exporter of TVs loses about 7 billion yen
of annual operating profit for every 1 yen decline in the value
of the euro and 2 billion yen for every 1 yen the dollar weakens.  
 The yen gained 17 percent against the euro so far this year
and 6.6 percent to the dollar. A stronger yen damps the value of
overseas earnings at a Japanese company when repatriated.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mariko Yasu  in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Christian Takushi, a fund manager at Swisscanto Asset Management AG, talks about Sony Corp.'s first-quarter profit and the performance of Chief Executive Officer Howard Stringer.
     Takushi, speaking from Zurich, also discusses Nintendo Co.'s first quarterly loss in more than two years. He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Pelham Smithers, managing director of Pelham Smithers Associates, talks about Sony Corp.'s profitability and outlook.
     The world’s No.3 television maker raised its full-year earnings forecasts after sales of TVs and game consoles helped the company to an unexpected profit last quarter. Smithers speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
