-- South Korean Developer Courts Harrah's for Casino at Cambodia's Angkor Wat
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-07-29T04:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/south-korean-developer-courts-harrah-s-for-casino-at-cambodia-s-angkor-wat.html

          
          
             South Korean developer  Intercity
Group  plans to start construction in October on a $400 million
casino resort complex near Cambodia’s Angkor Wat temples that
aims to draw high rollers from Macau and Singapore.  
 Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the world’s biggest casino
owner, and MGM Resorts International, the largest casino owner
on the Las Vegas strip, are among potential investors to visit
the site,  James Cho , Intercity’s vice president, said in an
interview yesterday. The first phase of the  project , Cambodia’s
largest casino to date, is set to finish in 2012, he said.  
 “All these big guys are interested in operation management
deals,” said Cho, who holds a graduate degree from Columbia
University. “We’re confident because the feasibility is there
and gaming concessions in this region are so rare.”  
 Intercity is betting the casino complex, with an investment
value equivalent to about 4 percent of Cambodia’s gross domestic
product, will draw Asian gamblers looking for an alternative to
more established gambling centers. Singapore opened  Resorts
World Sentosa  in February and Marina Bay Sands in April, and
Vietnam has approved a $4.2 billion casino set to open in 2013.  
 Raising funds may prove difficult in the current financial
climate given the project’s scale, which is bigger than most
casinos outside Singapore and Macau, said  Sean Monaghan , an
industry expert who formerly worked as a gaming analyst at
Merrill Lynch & Co. Success may hinge on showing investors ties
to junket operators in Thailand and China, he said.  
 “Even though Siem Reap sounds goods, most of the people
that go there aren’t really casino players,” Singapore-based
Monaghan said. “You have to have a very, very solid team to
pull that financing off.”  
 Temples, Incentives  
 Yvette Monet , an MGM spokeswoman, and  Jacqueline Peterson ,
a spokeswoman for Las Vegas-based Harrah’s, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails sent after regular office hours or answer
calls to their mobile phones.  
 Intercity declined to reveal how much funding has been
raised so far. The tourist draw of  Angkor Wat , the 12th century
Hindu temple, an international airport and “tons” of
incentives from the government, including corporate tax holidays
and low gaming levies, will make the project viable, Cho said.  
 “Not everybody’s going to gamble in Macau or Singapore,”
Cho said. “Cambodia is family friendly and it’s cheaper.”  
 Hyung Joo Kim, Intercity’s chief executive officer, is
scheduled to meet Prime Minister  Hun Sen  today in Phnom Penh,
Cho said. He will be accompanied by several partners in the
project, including  Tobin Prior , a former executive with  Kerzner
International Ltd.  who led the company’s bid for the Singapore
concession in 2006 that was eventually awarded to Genting Bhd.  
 Golf Courses, Water Park  
 Cambodian government spokesman Phay Siphan referred
questions to the country’s investment board. Sok Chenda,
secretary-general of the  Council for the Development of Cambodia ,
declined to comment on the project when reached by phone.  
 Intercity Group is a Seoul-based global real estate and
investment firm founded in 1994, according to its  website . It
has developed $387 million worth of commercial and residential
properties in South Korea, according to the site.  
 Intercity received a license to develop the Angkor casino
in 2008, according to the website.  
 The Bellus Angkor Resort & City will feature the casino,
three hotels, three golf courses and a water park. The 18-hole
course will be designed by David McLay Kidd, who created the
 Bandon Dunes  course in Oregon and Castle Course in St. Andrews,
Scotland, Cho said.  
 Cambodia attracted 2.2 million tourists last year, with
about 580,000 flying directly into Siem Reap, according to
government  statistics . The resort will be located about 20
kilometers (12.4 miles) north of Angkor, about a 30-minute drive
from the airport, Cho said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        