-- South Africa's Rand Appreciates to Strongest in 3 1/2 Months Versus Dollar
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-29T10:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/south-africa-s-rand-appreciates-to-strongest-in-3-1-2-months-versus-dollar.html

          
          
             The rand rallied to a 3 1/2-month
high against the dollar as a rebound in stock markets from
Europe to Asia signaled investors’ appetite for risk was
improving, boosting sentiment toward higher-yielding assets.  
 South Africa’s currency appreciated as much as 0.8 percent
to 7.2834 per dollar, the strongest level since April 14. The
rand traded 0.6 percent up at 7.2922 as of 11:11 a.m. in
Johannesburg, from a close of 7.3381 yesterday.  
 Chinese stocks surged to a two-month high after the central
bank said it will keep a “moderately loose” monetary policy to
maintain growth in the world’s fastest growing major economy.
European stocks also rose as increased earnings forecasts from
companies in the region outweighed a Federal Reserve report
showing growth slowed in some areas of the U.S. economy.  
 “The risk trade is back on, which makes a high-yield
market like South Africa attractive to investors,” said
 Vivienne Taberer , a portfolio manager who helps oversee about
$70 billion at  Investec Asset Management  in Cape Town. “South
Africa’s attracting huge foreign flows into the bond market and
that helps the rand. Rumors of a foreign acquisition of a local
bank are also good news for the currency.”  
 Foreign investors have been net buyers of almost 80 billion
rand ($11 billion) of South African stocks and bonds this year,
according to data from the  JSE Ltd. , which operates the nation’s
exchanges. Such inflows have helped the rand surge almost 29
percent against the dollar since the start of 2009.  
 Nedbank  
 The rand has also strengthened on reports HSBC Holdings Plc
and Standard Chartered Plc are in talks to buy Old Mutual’s 52
percent holding in South Africa’s Nedbank Group Ltd., which was
reported by  Financial Times  at the weekend in  Mark Kleinman ’s
“In the Loop” column. That may add to Nippon Telegraph &
Telephone Corp.’s $3.2 billion acquisition of  Dimension Data
Plc , of which half is expected to flow into South Africa when
the deal concludes in October.  
 South African bonds fell, reversing earlier gains, after a
report showed producer price inflation rose more than expected
last month. The benchmark 13.5 percent security due September
2015 fell 5 cents to 124.53 rand, raising the yield by almost 1
basis point to 7.608 percent.  
 Earlier, bond yields dropped to a 2 1/2-year low after a
lower-than-expected increase in household borrowing raised
speculation the central bank may have room to lower its key
 interest rate .  Inflation  slowed for a sixth consecutive month,
decelerating to 4.2 percent in June, the statistics office said
yesterday.  
 Rate Comparison  
 South Africa’s benchmark rate of 6.5 percent compares with
deposit returns of 0.25 percent in the U.S., 0.1 percent in
Japan and 1 percent in the Euro region. The rate differential
makes the rand an attractive purchase for so-called carry
trades, which involve borrowing money in nations with low rates
to invest in market offering higher returns.  
 Money-market investors increased bets that South Africa’s
central bank will lower its main rate at its next meeting on
Sept. 9, forward-rate agreements show. The cost of  three-month
contracts for cash in three months  fell 1 basis point from
yesterday’s close to 6.23 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        