-- Spain to Investigate Solar Plants Over Subsidies, Government Official Says
-- Ben Sills
-- 2010-07-29T16:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/spain-to-investigate-solar-plant-irregularities-government-official-says.html

          
          
             Spain may force any solar plant
owners who cheated on paperwork to gain higher subsidies to
repay income earned through deception, a ministry official said.  
 Officials will ask the operators of photovoltaic plants
with about 800 megawatts of capacity, or a quarter of the total,
to prove their panels were connected to Spain’s power grid
before the September 2008 deadline for earning the highest
premium, the industry ministry official said today at a Madrid
news briefing. The plan will be set out in a decree due to be
approved tomorrow by the Spanish government, he said.  
 While all photovoltaic plants will be obliged to prove they
met the deadlines for subsidies, officials will focus their
probe on plants that industry groups have identified as
suspicious. Solar lobbyists have called on the government to
clamp down on fraud within the industry as executives and
officials negotiate ways to reduce the subsidies that consumers
pay to renewable-energy producers.  
 Spain’s 52,000 photovoltaic-panel installations earn as
much as 440 euros ($576) a megawatt-hour, or almost 10 times the
futures price for 2011 power in the wholesale market. The
premium was set at that level to spur investment in clean power.  
 Solar plants claimed more than half the 5 billion euros in
renewable-power subsidies paid by homes and businesses through
their bills last year while producing 11 percent of Spain’s
emission-free electricity.  
 Rein in Deficit  
 The government is trying to cut rates to help economic
growth after investors dumped the country’s bonds on concern it
will struggle to rein in a budget deficit that reached 11.2
percent of gross domestic product last year.  
 Officials across Europe are looking too to rein in profits
that energy companies earn under laws set up to reduce
emissions. Germany has eliminated tax breaks for biofuels and
cut solar energy subsidies this year while Italy plans to scrap
a price-floor for emission-free power.  
 Industry Minister Miguel Sebastian said April 28 he wanted
to lower the cost of Spanish power to boost the competitiveness
of the country’s manufacturers. The government already cut the
price for future projects more than 20 percent in a September
2008 law, sparking a rush among plant developers to hook up
their generators before the deadline.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        