-- Spain Nearing Accord With Solar Producers on Reducing Subsidies
-- Marc Roca
-- 2010-07-30T15:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/spain-nearing-plan-to-cut-solar-subsidy-15-extend-payments-three-years.html

          
          
             The Spanish government and solar-
power producers almost reached an agreement on reducing
subsidies to the industry before officials suspended talks to
assess savings from a clampdown on fraud, according to a memo
from industry representatives at the meeting.  
 A draft agreement forming the basis of the talks said
subsidies for plants already operating would be lowered by 5
percent to 15 percent over the next three years, compensated by
extra years of payments, the memo distributed to members of the
Photovoltaic Industry Association said.  
 “This is better than the industry was fearing and probably
does mean there will be continued investor confidence in Spain
and most project developers will be all right,”  Jenny Chase ,
lead solar analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said today.  
 Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero ’s government
wants to keep a lid on electric costs by paring back a 2007 law
granting above-market prices for clean-energy producers. Solar
price cuts would hurt plant developers including Actividades de
Construccion y Servicios SA and Solaria Energia y Medio Ambiente
SA.  
 A spokesman for the Industry Ministry didn’t immediately
respond to calls to his cell phone for comment. Before last
night’s meeting concluded on the brink of an accord, he said the
government would insist on deeper rate cuts.  
 Solaria, the Madrid-based solar panel maker and plant
developer,  rose  as much as 2.2 percent today in Madrid trading
and was at 1.62 euros at 5:15 p.m. local time.  
 Leaked Document  
 Under the plan, operators of existing plants could opt to
receive 85 percent of the subsidy they already get in 2011 and
2012 and 95 percent in 2013. The subsidies, now due to run 25
years from 2007, would be extended four years beyond the current
expiration date. A second option would offer operators a smaller
price cut in the first two years without the extension.  
 Industry representatives and officials failed to reach
agreement over these terms, prompting officials to defer a final
decision to give them time to quantify savings from new measures
to tackle fraud in the industry approved by the government
today, the memo said.  
 “It’s encouraging,” association secretary Enrique Alcor
said in the memo. Still, “we don’t know which of the elements
covered in recent days will remain in place come September.”  
 The draft also speaks of an option where developers could
escape the temporary subsidy cuts by taking a cap on the number
of hours their plants can earn above-market prices. Ground-
mounted systems would have a cap of 1,075 to 1,529 kilowatt
hours and plants with trackers would earn 1,515 to 2,154
kilowatt hours. The Industry Ministry spokesman said yesterday
the government is pressing to make that provision mandatory.  
 Project Incentives  
 Incentives for projects not yet built would be reduced 45
percent for those mounted to the ground and 25 percent for ones
on roofs.  
 Representatives of another industry group, the Photovoltaic
Business Association, painted a different picture of
negotiations today at a press briefing in Madrid.  
 “We don’t understand the negotiating position of the
ministry. We don’t know what objectives they are pursuing,”
association chairman Juan Laso said. “All the measures that we
have proposed have been rejected.”  
 Solar plant operators have been pressing Industry Minister
 Miguel Sebastian  to maintain the prices set out in the 2007 law
since April, when officials said they may cut the rate paid to
existing plants in addition to ones yet to be built.  
 Funds including London-based HG Capital and Denmark’s AP
Pensions have argued that the government was reneging on its
legal obligation to maintain the subsidies for 25 years.  
 10 Times  
 Spain’s 52,000 photovoltaic-panel installations earn as
much as 440 euros ($573) a megawatt-hour, or almost 10 times the
futures price for 2011 power in the wholesale market.  
 The premium was set at that level to spur investment in
renewable forms of energy. The Spanish Banking Association
estimated domestic banks have loaned 40 billion euros to
renewable-energy projects. Some 600 photovoltaic plant operators
may face bankruptcy if the subsidies are slashed, the
Photovoltaic Industry Association has said.  
 Solar plants claimed more than half the 5 billion euros in
renewable-power subsidies paid by homes and businesses through
their bills last year, while producing 11 percent of Spain’s
emission-free electricity.  
 Sebastian told executives last month that he planned to cut
1 billion euros from the annual subsidies. Germany has also
scrapped tax breaks for solar energy, and Italy is working to
eliminate a minimum price set for emission-free power.  
 Spain will pare some of the support its solar operators
receive by clamping down on operators who cheated on paperwork
to qualify for the highest rates, under a Royal Decree approved
today by the government.  
 Companies that cannot prove their generators were connected
to Spain’s power grid before September 2008 will be forced to
switch to the lower subsidy rate and repay excess earnings.
About a quarter of the industry may be affected, the government
estimates.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sills  in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net 
 Marc Roca  in London at   mroca6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         Audio Download:  Soleil's Leming on Spain's Solar Cuts on June 16 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
