-- Spain's Inflation Rate Jumps to Highest in Two Years on Sales Tax Increase
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-07-29T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/spain-s-inflation-rate-jumps-to-highest-in-two-years-on-sales-tax-increase.html

          
          
             Spain’s  inflation  rate rose in July
to the highest in almost two years as an increase in sales tax
came into effect.  
 Consumer prices based on a European Union measure rose 1.9
percent from a year earlier after a 1.5 percent increase in
June, the Madrid-based National Statistics Institute said in a
statement today. That is the fastest rate since November 2008. A
Bloomberg News  survey  of 14 economists gave a median forecast of
a 1.7 percent increase.  
 Spain, emerging from an almost two-year recession with the
third-largest budget deficit in the euro region, has stepped up
austerity measures in a move the government says may undermine
the recovery. The main rate of value-added tax was increased to
18 percent from 16 percent on July 1, just as retailers were
offering discounts of as much as 70 percent to attract shoppers
to seasonal sales.  
 “Some price increases already happened in May and June but
the largest bit will be in July,” said  Giada Giani , an
economist at Citigroup Global Markets in London. “Without the
VAT hike, I’d expect inflation to remain very low.”  
 Deputy Finance Minister  Carlos Ocana  forecast in March that
about 50 percent of the VAT increase would be passed on to
consumers, with companies absorbing the rest.  Inditex SA , the
owner of Zara, said it wouldn’t pass on the increase.  
 Spain’s economy came out of the recession in the first
quarter, even as unemployment rose to 20 percent. Investors’
concern about a deficit of 11.2 percent of gross domestic
product last year led to a surge in Spain’s borrowing costs. The
government responded by approving a 5 percent reduction in civil
servants’ wages in May and was forced to cut its 2011 growth
forecast to 1.3 percent from 1.8 percent as a result of the
austerity measures.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        