-- Stress Tests Will Only Draw Out Financial Crisis: Danny Gabay
-- Danny Gabay
-- 2010-07-29T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/stress-tests-will-only-draw-out-credit-crisis-commentary-by-danny-gabay.html

          
          
             The first step toward a solution is
to recognize that you have lost control of the problem,
according to Alcoholics Anonymous. In that spirit, the Committee
of European Banking Supervisors’  report  on bank stresses is
welcome. But as attempts at clearing the air go, the exercise is
a failure and will go down as a missed opportunity.  
 The committee said the overall objective was to assess
“the resilience of the EU banking system to possible adverse
economic developments and to assess the ability of banks in the
exercise to absorb possible shocks on credit and market risks,
including sovereign risks.”  
 But wading through the 55-page report reminded me of being
a small child at a family gathering at which your “funny”
uncle attempts to convince you that he can make a coin disappear
by clumsily passing it from one hand to the other. In this case,
it is bad debt that is passed between banks and sovereigns.
Hence the attempt to argue that Europe’s banks are largely safe
as long as there isn’t a sovereign default makes as much sense
as saying a watch is waterproof as long as it doesn’t get wet.  
 In reality, a sovereign default and a banking crisis
represent two sides of the same coin -- namely an excess level
of debt in the system. Financial risk might, like energy, be
subject to the laws of physics -- that is to say, in a closed
system, total energy (or risk) is a constant. Or put another
way, financial risk can’t be destroyed by simply moving it from
one balance sheet to another.  
 Latest Staging Post  
 The underlying crisis remains the same. It is still all
about the solvency of the banking system, and it remains
unresolved. As the Bank of England says in its latest  Financial
Stability Report , “the interconnectedness of the financial
system amplifies the credit risk faced by individual banking
systems.” Europe is merely the latest, though not necessarily
the last, staging post.  
 By the same token, the idea that the  European Financial
Stability Facility  and the European Central Bank’s U-turn on
direct purchases of government bonds was anything other than a
bank bailout is much mistaken. The EFSF is merely the latest in
a line of state-financed bank bailouts. The question is, will it
be enough?  
 On July 23, the same day that the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors published its report, seven U.S. banks
failed,  bringing the total  that have gone under since 2008 to
about 250. America has many more small banks than Europe, but
the failure rate is still lopsided.  
 Greek Default  
 Based on credit-default-swap pricing, it seems that
investors see a better-than-even chance that Greece will either
default on its debts, or leave the euro, or do both. But the
CEBS test was based on a 5 percent probability, and even then
only on some sovereign-debt risks.  
 The good news is that all forms of credit by euro-area
banks to governments amount to about 130 percent of capital and
reserves. Fortunately, the public debt of the three countries
most at risk -- Greece, Portugal and Spain -- equals only about
14 percent of all public debt in the region, according to
economists  Daniel Gros  and  Thomas Mayer .  
 The overall exposure of euro-area banks to the public
sector in the three countries most likely to come under
speculative attack is large in absolute terms, about 400 billion
euros ($523 billion), but even a 50 percent loss would amount to
less than 10 percent of aggregate capital and reserves of the
banks, Gros and Mayer said in a  report  in May.  
 Lot of Debt  
 The bad news is that euro-area lenders still have an awful
lot of debt to roll over in the next three years. International
Monetary Fund data suggest that commercial euro-area banks may
need to roll over  more than 2 trillion euros  of debt by the end
of 2013. And the biggest failing of the stress test is that it
has not really helped investors to distinguish between good and
bad banks in relation to that threat.  
 According to the  Bank for International Settlements , French
and German banks are particularly exposed to the sovereign debt
of some peripheral euro-area countries. At the end of 2009, they
had $958 billion of combined loans ($493 billion and $465
billion, respectively) to the residents of these nations. This
amounted to 61 percent of all reported euro-area bank loans to
those economies.  
 The Bank of England says U.K.-owned banks are particularly
exposed to the French and German banking systems, which account
for about a quarter of their claims on banks globally. We really
are all in it together.  
 In the end, the financial crisis will be resolved when
either asset prices recover fully and/or bad debts are properly
written off. Past experience suggests this process will be long
and drawn out, though hopefully not as long as it has been in
Japan. In the meantime, investors are left to rely on their own
wits to decide which banking systems and banks are the safest.  
 But if we have learned anything since 2008, it is that when
investors know there is a debt load, but not precisely who owns
it, all banks quickly come to be seen as part of the problem.
The sooner Europe realizes this, the safer we will all be.  
 ( Danny Gabay  is a director at Fathom Consulting, an
independent macroeconomic and financial-markets consulting firm
in London. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Danny Gabay at  danny.gabay@fathom-consulting.com   
          
          


  


        