-- Subsidies for Renewables, Biofuels Dwarfed by Supports for
-- 
-- 2010-07-29T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/subsidies-for-renewables-biofuels-dwarfed-by-supports-for.html

          
          
               Subsidies for Renewables, Biofuels Dwarfed by Supports for Fossil Fuels

Bloomberg New Energy Finance Preliminary Analysis Highlights Wide Gap Between
                Government Help for Clean, Dirty Power Sources

Business Wire

NEW YORK -- July 29, 2010

New research from Bloomberg New Energy Finance reveals that despite many
platitudes and pledges, governments of the world are spending substantially
more on subsidizing dirty forms of energy than on renewables and biofuels. In
fact, support for cleaner sources is dwarfed by the help the oil, coal, and
other fossil fuel sectors receive.

In all, governments of the world provided approximately $43-46bn to renewable
energy and biofuels technologies, projects, and companies in 2009, BNEF
concludes in preliminary analysis. This total includes the cost of
feed-in-tariffs (FiTs), renewable energy credits or certificates (RECs), tax
credits, cash grants, and other direct subsidies. (It does not include more
upstream support, such as subsidies to corn farmers to grow feedstock for use
in US ethanol plants, nor does not include any value transfer due to carbon
cap-and-trade schemes.)

The $43-46bn figure stands in stark contrast to the $557bn spent on
subsidizing fossil fuels in 2008, as estimated by the International Energy
Agency last month.

"One of the reasons the clean energy sector is starved of funding is because
mainstream investors worry that renewable energy only works with direct
government support," said Michael Liebreich, chief executive of Bloomberg New
Energy Finance. "Setting aside the fact that in many cases clean energy
competes on its own merits - for instance in the case of well-situated wind
farms and Brazilian sugar-cane ethanol - this analysis shows that the global
direct subsidy for fossil fuels is around ten times the subsidy for
renewables. And that is without taking into account the enormous security and
public health costs of fossil fuels, as well as the appalling pollution
catastrophes on the Gulf Coast, the Niger Delta and elsewhere."

The BNEF preliminary analysis suggests the US is the top country, as measured
in dollars deployed, in providing direct subsidies for clean energy with an
estimated $18.2bn spent in total in 2009. Approximately 40% of this went
toward supporting the US biofuels sector with the rest going towards
renewables. The federal stimulus program played a key role; its Treasury
Department grant program alone provided $3.8bn in support for clean energy
projects.

China, the world leader in new wind installations in 2009 with 14GW, provided
approximately $2bn in direct subsidies, according to the preliminary analysis.
This figure is deceptive, however, as much crucial support for clean energy in
the country comes in form of low-interest loans from state-owned banks.
State-run power generators and grid companies have also been strongly
encouraged by the government to tap their balance sheets in support of
renewables.

Feed-in-tariffs (FiT) subsidizing the purchase of clean electricity in Europe
accounted for roughly $19.5bn of the total 2009 spend, or just under half the
global total. Germany is home to what was the world’s single most expensive
clean energy subsidy program in 2009, BNEF's preliminary research found. Its
FiT cost Germany’s ratepayers an estimated $9.6bn in 2009 and is a reflection
of the extraordinary number of PV systems installed in the country in recent
years.

The gap between what governments spend on subsidizing fossil fuels and clean
energy should narrow considerably in 2010 for two reasons. First, support for
renewables and biofuels will grow as disbursement of $188bn in global stimulus
funds for clean energy accelerates, based on BNEF research. Second, the amount
governments such as China spend to keep fossil fuel prices artificially low
for consumers has dropped as oil prices retreated from their mid-2008 peaks.
Simply put, less government support is needed to make these dirty sources of
energy more affordable to populations around the globe.

ABOUT BLOOMBERG NEW ENERGY FINANCE

Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) is the world’s leading independent
provider of news, data, research and analysis to decision-makers in renewable
energy, energy smart technologies, carbon markets, carbon capture and storage,
and nuclear power. Bloomberg New Energy Finance has staff of more than 130,
based in London, Washington D.C., New York, Beijing, New Delhi, Hyderabad,
Cape Town, São Paulo, Singapore, and Sydney.

Bloomberg New Energy Finance Insight Services provide deep market analysis to
investors in wind, solar, bioenergy, geothermal, carbon capture and storage,
energy efficiency, and nuclear power. The group offers Insight Services for
each of the major emerging carbon markets: European, Global Kyoto, Australia,
and the U.S., where it covers the planned regional markets as well as
potential federal initiatives and the voluntary carbon market. Bloomberg New
Energy Finance’s Industry Intelligence Service provides access to the world’s
most comprehensive database of investors and investments in clean energy and
carbon. The News and Briefing Service is the leading global news service
focusing on clean energy investment. The group also undertakes applied
research on behalf of clients and runs senior-level networking events.

New Energy Finance Limited was acquired by Bloomberg L.P. in December 2009,
and its services and products are now owned and distributed by Bloomberg
Finance L.P., except that Bloomberg L.P. and its subsidiaries (BLP) distribute
these products in Argentina, Bermuda, China, India, Japan, and Korea. For more
information on Bloomberg New Energy Finance: http://www.newenergyfinance.com

ABOUT BLOOMBERG

Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for businesses and
professionals. Bloomberg combines innovative technology with unmatched
analytic, data, news, display and distribution capabilities, to deliver
critical information via the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL® service and Multimedia
platforms. Bloomberg's media services cover the world with more than 2,300
news and Multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries. The
BLOOMBERG TELEVISION® 24-hour network reaches more than 240 million homes.
BLOOMBERG RADIO® services broadcast via Sirius XM Radio and 1worldspace™
satellite radio globally and on WBBR 1130AM in New York. BLOOMBERG MARKETS®
magazine, Bloomberg Businessweek magazine and the BLOOMBERG.COM® Web site
provide news and insight to business leaders and financial professionals. For
more information, please visit http://www.bloomberg.com

The BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service and data products are owned and distributed
by Bloomberg Finance L.P. (BFLP) except that Bloomberg L.P. and its
subsidiaries (BLP) distribute these products in Argentina, Bermuda, China,
India, Japan and Korea. BLOOMBERG, BLOOMBERG NEWS, BLOOMBERG TELEVISION,
BLOOMBERG RADIO, BLOOMBERG MARKETS AND BLOOMBERG.COM are trademarks and
service marks of Bloomberg Finance L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, or
its subsidiaries. All rights reserved.

Contact:

Bloomberg LP
Sarah Feinberg, +1 202-654-4360
sfeinberg2@bloomberg.net
 
               
//<![CDATA[

                  $("div#story_content p:first").appendTo("div#press_release_subhead_holder");
              
//]]>
