-- U.K. Consumer Confidence Falls to Lowest in Almost a Year on Budget Cuts
-- Jennifer Ryan
-- 2010-07-30T08:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/u-k-consumer-confidence-falls-to-lowest-in-almost-a-year-on-budget-cuts.html

          
          
             U.K.  consumer confidence  fell more
than economists forecast this month as the prospect of
government spending cuts undermined Britons’ optimism on the
economic recovery, GfK NOP said.  
 An  index of sentiment  declined to minus 22 from minus 19 in
June, the lowest in 11 months, the market researcher said in an
e-mailed statement today in London. Economists had forecast a
decline to minus 20, based on the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is cutting
welfare spending and increasing sales tax to reduce the record
budget deficit, threatening growth. Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  said July 28 there may be a “considerable” way to
go before economic conditions stabilize enough to allow interest
rates to rise to a “normal” level.  
 “The continuing slide in the index makes a double-dip
recession look more of a possibility,”  Nick Moon , managing
director at GfK, said in the statement. “It’s possible that
respondents are already factoring in” the “likely recessionary
impact of the government’s announcement about spending cuts.”  
 A measure of Britons’ assessment of their personal
financial situation over the next 12 months dropped 4 points to
minus 6 in July. A gauge of their outlook for the economy
plunged 13 points to minus 25.  
 U.K. government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the 10-
year gilt down 3 basis points to 3.37 percent as of 9:12 a.m. in
London. The pound gained 0.1 percent against the dollar to
$1.5630.  
 ‘One Number’  
 The British Retail Consortium said in a separate report
today that employment at retailers rose 3 percent in June from a
year earlier. For the second quarter, retail payrolls jumped 3.6
percent on the year, equivalent to a net 22,055 jobs. The
quarterly increase was driven by new store openings, the BRC
said in the report.  
 The  U.K. economy  grew 1.1 percent in the second quarter,
the most in four years. King yesterday cautioned lawmakers in
Parliament “not to read too much into one number” as policy
makers debate when to raise the  benchmark interest rate  from a
record low of 0.5 percent.  
 “There will come a point when we will certainly need to
ease off the accelerator and return  Bank Rate  to more normal
levels,” King said. “I look forward to that time because it
will probably be a signal that there is a smoother drive ahead,
with the economic outlook improving in a durable way. But I fear
there is some considerable distance to travel.”  
 GfK said its gauge of shoppers’ attitude toward making a
major purchase rose 8 points to minus 16. The increase may
reflect a view among consumers that any big-ticket items should
be bought before the sales-tax rate rises to 20 percent in
January from 17.5 percent, Moon said.  
 GfK surveyed 2,000 people between July 2 and July 11 and
estimates a margin of error of 2 percentage points.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        