-- U.K. Bonus Rules Should Cover 2,500 Banks, Funds, Financial Regulator Says
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-29T17:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/u-k-bonus-rules-should-cover-2-500-banks-funds-financial-regulator-says.html

          
          
             The U.K. financial regulator
proposed expanding the firms covered by rules on bonuses and
compensation from 27 to 2,500 banks, building societies and
hedge funds to comply with European Union legislation.  
 The proposed compensation rules require that at least 40
percent of bonuses be deferred for at least three years, the
Financial Services Authority  said  today in a statement on its
website. At least 50 percent of the bonuses should be paid in
shares. The previous FSA rules only applied to the largest
lenders operating in the country.  
 Regulators worldwide have been scrutinizing executive
compensation after it was blamed for excessive risk-taking that
contributed to the worst financial crisis since World War II.
European Union governments agreed on June 30 that directors of
banks who received public money will be forced to justify their
bonuses and lenders will have to report the number of people
earning more than 1 million euros ($1.3 million) to regulators.  
 “The FSA is implementing what has already been decided at
European level,” said  Nicholas Stretch , a tax lawyer at London-
based law firm CMS Cameron. “Market participants will be
disappointed to detect enthusiasm on the part of the FSA to
implement changes with such vigor and in such detail.”  
 EU governments blocked plans by some lawmakers to limit
bankers’ bonuses to half their total pay during talks to set
tougher capital and remuneration rules for lenders.  
 The new rules require at least 60 percent be deferred when
the bonus is more than 500,000 pounds ($779,550), the FSA said.  
 Fixed Income, Equities  
 Employees who “have a material impact on a firm’s risk
profile” will fall under the new rules, the FSA said.  
 Typically the employees covered will be heads of business
areas such as fixed income, equities, trading, commodities and
commercial and investment banking, the FSA said. Heads of human
resources departments and information technology will also fall
under the new rules.  
 The British Bankers Association , the trade group for the
industry, said any changes to the bonus system must be global
and warned that business will flow to countries that have
lighter rules.  
 “U.K. banks recognize that reform of pay structures plays
a significant part in restoring confidence in the industry,”
the BBA said in an e-mail. “A global industry needs to conform
to global standards, as any country which takes a lighter
approach will prove to be a magnet for business.”  
 Capital Base  
 The FSA told companies not to risk harming their capital
base with bonuses and said it will hold an annual review “on a
forward looking basis” to assess the largest firms’ compliance
with the rule.  
 The FSA was one of the first regulators to introduce bonus
curbs last year and there had been concern that it was “front-
running” on the issue and could hurt U.K. banks, said Tamara
Cizeika, a senior associate at London-based law firm Eversheds
LLP.  
 “Although there are still issues to work through, the fact
that the EU has largely caught up should mean that there is a
more level playing field,” Cizeika said.  
 The regulator will also focus on the methods banks use for
calculating bonuses.  
 “Last year we paid close attention to how firms adjust for
risks after the pay-out of bonuses,” the FSA said. “This year
we intend to focus on the techniques used by firms to take
account of risks when calculating their bonus pools prior to
payout.”  
 The FSA invited  comment  on the proposals contained in
CP10/19: Revising the Remuneration Code by Oct. 8 and said it
will make a statement in November. The rules come into being
Jan. 1 2011.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        