-- U.S. Stocks Fluctuate on Earnings, Forecasts Before GDP Data
-- Rita Nazareth
-- 2010-07-29T21:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-before-earnings-visa-genzyme-pace-gains.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a third day, as earnings
and forecasts that disappointed investors at technology and
consumer companies wiped out an early advance.  
 Symantec Corp.  and Nvidia Corp. lost at least 9.9 percent
after reporting forecasts, while Akamai Technologies Inc. slid
13 percent after saying its profit margin shrank.  Colgate-
Palmolive Co.  sank 6.8 percent as sales trailed estimates.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  rose 3.7 percent after saying the
industry’s regulatory overhaul won’t cause “significant”
reduction in revenue, according to Bank of America Corp.  
 The  S&P 500  fell 0.4 percent to 1,101.53 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The index was unable to remain above its average price of
the last  200 days  of about 1,114. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  slipped 30.72 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,467.16.  
 “The picture remains mixed,” said  Keith Wirtz , who
oversees $18 billion as chief investment officer at Fifth Third
Asset Management Inc. in Cincinnati. “We’ll probably see this
give and take during the summer because the liquidity is not
normal. The employment conditions remain challenging. Good
earnings results are not helping stock prices much. However,
when you have bad numbers, stocks get killed.”  
 The  S&P 500  fell the previous two days after consumer
confidence slumped more than forecast, orders for durable goods
unexpectedly decreased and the Federal Reserve said economic
growth slowed in some areas. The  gauge  has climbed 6.9 percent
in July, headed for its best monthly advance in a year, after
earnings topped estimates at about 77 percent of its companies
that have reported  second-quarter  results so far.  
 Slower GDP Growth  
 A Commerce Department report tomorrow may show U.S. growth
slowed to 2.6 percent in the second quarter, from 2.7 percent in
the first, based on the median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Akamai Technologies  sank 13 percent to $38.35. The largest
supplier of software to make websites and digital media load
faster said its profit margin shrank as it added business from
customers like Netflix Inc. at lower prices.  
 Symantec  fell 11 percent to $13.03. The world’s largest
maker of computer security software forecast second-quarter
sales and profit that missed analysts’ estimates, citing
weakness in the euro and “cautiousness” among customers.  
 Nvidia, LSI  
 Nvidia  slumped 9.9 percent to $9.13. The second-largest
maker of graphics chips lowered its second-quarter sales
forecast to a range between $800 million to $820 million. That
compares with a prediction of $950 million to $970 million given
May 13. Analysts had  projected  sales of $944.7 million,
according to the average from a Bloomberg survey.  
 LSI Corp.  had the biggest decline in the S&P 500, falling
14 percent to $4.08. The maker of chips used in computer disk
drives said third-quarter sales will be between $625 million and
$655 million. That compares with the $694.9 million average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Oracle Corp. fell 2.4 percent to $23.70 as the U.S. filed a
complaint under the False Claims Act against the company and
Oracle America Inc., alleging that it defrauded the U.S. on a
General Services Administration software contract that was in
effect from 1998 to 2006 and involved hundreds of millions of
dollars in sales.  
 “Tech is not doing great and that’s enough to drag the
index,” said  Michael Mullaney , who manages $9 billion at
Fiduciary Trust Co. in Boston. “We need to get a better
economic picture in order to get a sustainable stocks rally. We
need to get job creation and the consumer back on board.”  
 Colgate  
 Colgate-Palmolive  led a gauge of consumer-staples stocks to
the second-biggest decline among 10 industries in the S&P 500.
The world’s largest toothpaste maker reported second-quarter
sales of $3.81 billion, missing the average analyst estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of $3.94 billion. Colgate slumped 6.8 percent
to $78.12.  
 Visa Inc.  declined 4.3 percent to $71.98. The Department of
Justice has indicated that it is considering filing a civil
lawsuit over a policy that bars merchants from charging extra to
customers who pay with credit cards.  
 “The department has indicated that it is considering filing
a civil lawsuit," Chief Executive Officer  Joseph W. Saunders  said
yesterday in a conference call with analysts after Visa reported
fiscal third-quarter results.  
 Utility companies had the biggest decline in the S&P 500
among 10 industry groups, falling 1.6 percent.  
 Constellation Energy Group Inc.  fell 4.6 percent to $31.75.
Jefferies & Co. lowered its 2010 earnings estimate for the
supplier of electricity and natural gas.  
 Rates  
 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said the central bank should resume purchases of Treasury
securities if the economy slows and prices fall rather than
maintain a pledge to keep rates near zero. Bullard, a voting
member of the Federal Open Market Committee this year, said
using Fed communications to pledge rates will stay near zero may
prove to be detrimental.  
 U.S. and Japanese stocks were cut and European shares were
raised by  UBS AG  global strategists, who said there is less risk
and economic data is more supportive in Europe. U.S. shares were
cut to ‘‘neutral’’ and Japanese equities were lowered to
‘‘underweight,’’ according to a report by strategist  Jeffrey Palma  to clients dated July 28. Both regions were previously
rated ‘‘overweight.’’  
 Stocks rose earlier today, sending the S&P 500 up 0.9
percent, after the Labor Department reported that the number 
of Americans filing first-time claims for  unemployment  
insurance fell to 457,000 last week, less than the median 
estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  
 ‘Very Slowly’  
 ‘‘The economy is recovering very slowly even as profits
rebound very fast,’’ said  David Kelly , who helps oversee $445
billion as chief market strategist for  JPMorgan Funds  in New
York. ‘‘Today’s jobless claims were slightly better-than-
expected, but I don’t think it really changes the story. The
employment rebound is still slow.”  
 Goldman Sachs rose 3.7 percent to $152.58. The impact of
the financial reform will be minimal unless market-making rules
“turn out to be draconian (which they believe is unlikely),”
Bank of America Corp. analyst  Guy Moszkowski  wrote in a report
sent to clients today, citing a meeting with Goldman Sachs
President  Gary Cohn  and Chief Financial Officer  David Viniar .
The company “is not waiting for final rules to be formulated by
regulators to decide where to invest and how to grow.”  
 Citrix Systems Inc.  surged 20 percent, the biggest gain in
the S&P 500, to $56.67. The maker of networking software was
raised to “outperform” from “neutral” at Robert Baird & Co.
and to “neutral” from “underperform” at Cowen & Co.  
 Cisco Systems Inc.  stock was halted for five minutes
following a 100-share trade on NYSE Amex that drove the shares
up more than 10 percent, triggering a circuit breaker
implemented after the May 6 market crash. Cisco fell 0.8 percent
to $23.21.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Colgate-Palmolive led a gauge of consumer-staples stocks to the second-biggest decline among 10 industries in the S&P 500. Photographer: Sebastian D'souza/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Yacktman, manager of the Yacktman Focused Fund, discusses the performance of Viacom Inc., ConocoPhillips and Microsoft Corp. shares and the outlook for the companies.
     Yacktman speaks with Carol Massar on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a third day, as earnings and forecasts disappointed investors at technology and consumer companies. A gauge of commodities rose to a 12-week high on speculation the economic recovery will boost demand. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Pavel Molchanov, an energy analyst at Raymond James & Associates, discusses Exxon Mobil Corp.’s second-quarter profit reported today and the outlook for the company’s performance.
     The largest U.S. oil company said net income jumped 91 percent to $7.56 billion, or $1.60 a share, exceeding analyst estimates. Molchanov speaks with Carol Massar and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- The number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment insurance fell 11,000 last week to 457,000, a figure that signals the labor market will be slow to improve even as the economy grows. Bloomberg's Michael McKee reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
