-- U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Falls Amid Jobless Claims Decline, Swaps Show
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-07-29T22:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-falls-amid-jobless-claims-decline-swaps-show.html

          
          
             A benchmark indicator of corporate
credit risk in the U.S. fell after the government reported a
bigger-than-estimated drop in jobless claims.  
 The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
 unemployment  insurance fell to 457,000 last week, signaling the
labor market will be slow to improve even as the overall economy
grows.  Exxon Mobil Corp. , the largest U.S. oil company, and
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. posted results that beat analysts’
forecasts while technology companies reported earnings below
estimates, pulling stocks down.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 103.92 basis points
as of 6:42 p.m. in New York, according to index administrator
Markit Group Ltd. The index climbed as much as 0.1 basis point
and fell as much as 2.9 basis points.  
 “Earnings have been coming in a lot better than expected,
but I still don’t think people are thinking we’re out of the
woods,” said  Andrew Kuan , senior trader at Primus Asset
Management in New York. “We had in-line jobless claims and
continuing claims. As a result, credit is feeling a little bit
better today.”  
 Initial jobless claims dropped by 11,000 in the week ended
July 24 from a revised 468,000, Labor Department figures showed
today in Washington. First-time applications last week were in
line with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The
number of people receiving unemployment benefits rose, while
those getting extended payments declined.  
 Exxon Mobil  
 The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves, ended May 13 at 100.1 basis points. Yesterday, the
benchmark rose 2.8 basis points to 105.3, Markit prices show.  
 Exxon Mobil reported its biggest profit increase since 2003
as recovering economies around the world spurred gains in energy
prices. Per-share profit was 15 cents higher than the average of
17 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Goodyear  had a 15
percent increase in sales and beat the average analyst estimate
in a Bloomberg survey. Earnings topped estimates at about 77
percent of its companies that have reported second-quarter
results so far.  
 Swaps on Exxon Mobil fell 0.1 basis point to 45.2 and
Goodyear eased 3.7 basis points to 558.3, according to data
provider CMA.  
 Wiping Out  
 Swaps on  Brunswick Corp.  dropped 64 basis points to 451.4, CMA
data show. The maker of recreational consumer products, which
earns most of its revenue from building boats, reported a
second-quarter profit of 43 cents a share, compared with the
average analyst estimate of a 3 cent loss in a Bloomberg survey.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell for a third day, as
earnings and forecasts disappointed investors at technology and
consumer-staples companies, wiping out an early advance. Nvidia
Corp. and Symantec Corp. issued lower forecasts.  
 “Given the selloff you had in stocks,” said Morgan
Stanley strategist  Adam Richmond . “Credit’s holding up fairly
well.”  
 Credit-default swaps on Alcoa Inc., AT&T Inc. and Ford
Motor Co. fell after each sold debt this week in the wake of
second-quarter results that beat analysts’ estimates.  
 “There’s been a lot of new issues coming out -- you saw
Alcoa, AT&T, Union Pacific, McDonald’s and Ford come out,” Kuan
said. “It shows their ability to tap the market and manage
their debt a little better, so as a result, you see CDS collapse
a little bit more on some of those names.”  
 Andrew Cuomo  
 Contracts protecting against losses on Ford decreased 6.3
basis points to 565.7, according to CMA. Swaps on Alcoa declined
29 basis points since July 23. The company sold $1 billion of
10-year notes on July 26 in its biggest offering in two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The cost to protect bonds issued by life insurers climbed
after New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  began a fraud probe
into the life insurance industry and subpoenaed MetLife Inc. and
Prudential Financial Inc. for information about profits on death
benefits retained from the families of deceased policyholders,
including military personnel.  
 Contracts on Prudential climbed 5.8 basis points to 232.5,
and MetLife added 1 basis point to 272.6, according to CMA.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying security if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point, 0.01
percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        