-- U.S. Nuclear Projects Tied Up Awaiting Federal Loan Guarantees
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-29T20:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/u-s-nuclear-projects-await-delayed-decisions-on-federal-loan-guarantees.html

          
          
             The so-called nuclear renaissance
that was supposed to boost U.S. capacity to generate emissions-
free power may stall as developers await decisions from the
Obama administration on federal aid.  
 The Energy Department in Washington needs to review
proposed loan guarantees “thoroughly,” and a decision on at
least one of three pending projects on its short list may be
announced by the end of this year, spokeswoman  Ebony Meeks  said.
The department increased the number of people working on the
proposals to more than 120 from 10 in March 2009, she said.  
 “We need to make sure we review all of these projects very
carefully and very thoroughly,” Meeks said today in a telephone
interview.  
 Southern Co. , the second-largest U.S. power producer, is
the only plant developer to get a government loan guarantee to
help make construction of new reactors possible. Two other
groups that made the short list are seeing delays after
previously expecting decisions earlier this year.  
 “Time is running out,” Constellation Energy Group Inc.
Chief Executive Officer  Mayo Shattuck III  told investors
yesterday on a conference call. “We definitely can’t keep
spending without a near-term commitment in the form of a loan
guarantee.”  
 Constellation, NRG  
 The department has about $10 billion left for guarantees
after it awarded $8.33 billion to Atlanta-based  Southern  and its
partners in an expansion of the utility owner’s Vogtle power
station in Georgia. There will only be enough money left to back
financing for one more project unless and until Congress
provides additional funding, Meeks said.  
 Constellation , a Baltimore-based utility owner, is working
with Electricite de France SA to expand its Calvert Cliffs
nuclear plant in Maryland. The company, which previously spent
$1 million a day on the new project, cut spending by a third
because of the delay, company spokeswoman  Claire Buchan  said.  
 NRG Energy Inc. , which seeks money for new reactors at a
plant in Texas, expected to hear a decision on a loan guarantee
by the end of June, Chief Executive Officer  David Crane  said in
February. The Princeton, New Jersey-based company lost a partner
on the project earlier this year, when San Antonio’s municipal
power producer pulled out.  
 The U.S., which hasn’t licensed any new reactors since the
1979 accident at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania, is trying to
revive nuclear-power construction to meet power demand without
increasing greenhouse-gas emissions. The last new plant to be
licensed opened in 1987.  
 South Carolina’s  Scana Corp.  leads the other project that
the Energy Department is considering. The company expects to see
terms of a government loan guarantee later this year, utility  
President  Kevin Marsh  said today on a conference call.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mayo Shattuck, chairman and chief executive officer of Constellation Energy Group Inc., speaks at the National Energy Summit in Washington. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
