-- U.S. Concrete Wins Approval of Restructuring Plan to Cut Debt $272 Million
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-07-29T15:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/u-s-concrete-wins-approval-of-restructuring-plan-to-cut-debt-272-million.html

          
          
             U.S. Concrete Inc. , a concrete
supplier for the construction industry, won court approval of
its restructuring plan to cut its debt by about $272 million.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Peter Walsh  said he would approve the
company’s reorganization plan after reviewing it another time
and would enter an order this afternoon at a hearing today in
Wilmington, Delaware.  
 “The plan has been overwhelmingly approved and all
objections have been resolved,” Ross Kwasteniet, a lawyer for
U.S. Concrete told Walsh at the hearing. Almost 100 percent of
the noteholders and about 85 percent of the equity holders, the
only two creditor groups entitled to vote on the proposal,
supported the turnaround plan.  
 The company’s 8.325 percent notes will be swapped for the
all the reorganized company’s equity subject to dilution,
according to the restructuring plan. Current shareholders will
get warrants to buy as much as 15 percent of the new company’s
stock. Executives may get about 10 percent of the stock under a
management incentive plan.  
 “The proposed plan will reduce the company’s subordinated
debt by approximately $272 million,” U.S. Concrete said in an
April 29 statement, when it filed for bankruptcy protection.  
 Unsecured creditors will be paid in full and secured claims
will be reinstated with the reorganized company, according to
court documents.  
 The Houston-based company listed assets of $389.2 million
and debt of $399.4 million as of Dec. 31 in Chapter 11 documents
filed in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware. Forty-
three units also sought protection.  
 U.S. Concrete produces ready-mix concrete, precast concrete
products and concrete-related products used in commercial,
residential and public works construction projects.  
 The case is In re U.S. Concrete Inc., 10-11407, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        