-- Ukraine's Credit Ratings Raised at S&P After IMF Approval of New Bailout
-- Tasneem Brogger
-- 2010-07-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/ukraine-s-credit-ratings-raised-at-s-p-after-imf-approval-of-new-bailout.html

          
          
             Ukraine’s credit ratings were raised
by Standard & Poor’s after the International Monetary Fund
approved a new $15.2 billion loan program for the country.  
 S&P raised its long-term foreign currency ratings on
Ukraine by one level to B+ from B and the long-term local
currency rating to BB- from B+, the company said in a statement
late yesterday. The ratings were removed from CreditWatch.  
 The IMF agreed on July 28 to disburse $1.9 billion
immediately, allowing the former Soviet republic to use $1
billion of the first payment to help cover the budget deficit.
The government increased gas prices for households and heating
companies to balance the finances of state energy company NAK
Naftogaz Ukrainy and agreed to trim the deficit to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product this year and 3.5 percent next year.  
 “We believe that the IMF program will increase the chances
of a stability-oriented policy measures that should increase the
resilience of the Ukrainian economy and its public finances,”
S&P said in the statement. “The IMF program also reduces the
external vulnerability of Ukrainian economy by providing
external financing.”  
 Ukraine got a two-year, $16.4 billion loan from the IMF in
2008 after the global recession cut demand for its exports. The
nation received $10.6 billion before payments were frozen in
November as the government declined to cut spending ahead of
presidential elections at the start of this year.  
 VTB Loan  
 Ukraine in June received a $2 billion loan from VTB Group,
Russia’s second-largest bank, to help cover the deficit.  
 “We expect that the first tranche from the IMF will be
used to finance the budget deficit and, in particular, to
refinance a $2 billion loan received from VTB,” said  Anastasia Golovach , an analyst at Renaissance Capital in Kiev in an e-
mailed note.  
 The IMF will provide a second $1 billion for the state
budget after the first quarterly review, the IMF said. The
remaining $13 billion will go to central bank reserves, it said.  
 The loan “eases concerns over budget financing for this
year,” said  Tim Ash , head of emerging market research at Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc in London, by e-mail yesterday. The program
“should enable rational energy pricing, which will do much to
help rein in the quasi-fiscal deficit in the energy sector.”  
 Ukrainian Gas  
 Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  initially aimed for a deficit
target of 5.3 percent of GDP plus 1 percent to cover funds for  
Naftogaz. The IMF said it wants Ukraine to reduce the budget
deficit to 2.5 percent of GDP in 2012. Naftogaz’s deficit should
be “eliminated starting from 2011,” the IMF said.  
 “A long-term permanent shift to a more sustainable fiscal
position on the back of a permanent improvement in the finances
of Naftogaz and the social security system could lead to further
ratings improvements,” S&P said. “Alternatively, setbacks to
political stability, higher-than-projected recapitalization
needs for the financial system, or a weakening of the
government’s resolve to finalize an IMF lending program, could
put downward pressure on the ratings.”  
 Resumed cooperation with the IMF opens the way for a
 European Commission  loan estimated at 610 million euros ($792
million) and for an $800 million loan from the World Bank,
Deputy Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said on July 7.  
 “Fiscal adjustment will start in 2010 and deepen in 2011-
12, backed by robust structural reforms of the pension system,
public administration, and the tax system,” IMF Deputy Director
John Lipsky said on a July 28 conference call. Ukraine’s gas
industry “will be strengthened, including through domestic
price hikes and broader reforms supported by other multilateral
institutions, which will help eliminate energy subsidies and
create a more modern and viable sector.”  
 Market Strength  
 The benchmark UX stock index rose 70.13 points to 2093.85
yesterday, the biggest increase since July 6. Ukraine’s 6.58
percent bond maturing 2016 rose to 101.053, from 100.000.
Ukraine’s credit default swaps fell 4 basis points to 514.5,
according to data provider CMA.  
 The IMF action “will be moderately positive” for
Ukraine’s Eurobonds “as the approval of the stand-by program
has been expected and the market has already accounted for
this,” Astrum Investment Management said in a comment for
clients.  
 The decision should cause a further decline in the cost of
hedging against devaluation risk, Astrum said. This “should
increase the appeal of the Ukrainian domestic bond market for
non-residents,” according to Astrum.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        