-- MultiPlan Offers Debt in Busiest July Since at Least '98: New Issue Alert
-- Sapna Maheshwari
-- 2010-07-29T07:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/multiplan-offers-debt-in-busiest-july-since-at-least-98-new-issue-alert.html

          
          
             MultiPlan Inc., the health-care
cost-management company being acquired by BC Partners Ltd. and
Silver Lake, is marketing debt in the busiest July for corporate
bond sales since at least 1998.  
 MultiPlan may sell $650 million to $675 million of bonds to
pay for the acquisition, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. It may also get $1.375 billion of loans, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  
 Sales of corporate bonds have jumped to $84.6 billion this
month, surpassing the previous July record of $71.1 billion set
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, which goes
back to 1999. Companies are selling debt as they take advantage
of low yields and because of “positive momentum” from better-
than-expected earnings, said  Rajeev Sharma , a money manager at
First Investors Management in New York.  
 “It is definitely busy, compared to past Julys,” said
Sharma, who oversees $1.4 billion of investment-grade credit.
“Rates are so low that it makes sense for companies to come
out. The anticipation is that eventually, rates will increase,
and you might as well get in there now and shore up your
liquidity a little bit and do whatever you want with the cash
later on.”  
 UBS AG , the largest Swiss lender by assets, led $5.28
billion of U.S. bond sales yesterday, Bloomberg data show. The
bank sold $2.5 billion of 4.875 percent 10-year bonds a day
after reporting quarterly profit that beat analysts’ estimates
on higher-than-expected trading revenue, the data show.  
 Stable Spreads  
 The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate debt fell was unchanged at 187 basis points as
absolute yields fell 6 basis points to 4.10 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Corporate Master index. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Ford Motor Co., last year’s biggest issuer of high-yield,
high-risk corporate debt, led junk sales yesterday as its
finance arm offered $1.25 billion of 6.625 percent, 7-year
notes. High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  
 Investors are snapping up new issues as yields in the
secondary market remain low, Sharma said. “Everybody wants a
piece of the new issuance,” he said. “You can’t really get
huge yield pick-up in the secondary market.”  
 Spreads on junk debt widened 4 basis points to 647 basis
points, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High
Yield Master II Index. Yields on the debt fell 2 basis points to
8.52 percent, the index data show.  
 MultiPlan Ratings  
 BC Partners and Silver Lake said on July 9 they had agreed
to buy MultiPlan from Carlyle Group and Welsh, Carson, Anderson
& Stowe. Following the announcement, Moody’s said the company’s
corporate family rating remains unchanged at B2.  
 S&P said July 12 that it would act within 30 days on its
MultiPlan ratings, including the senior secured debt grade of
B+.  
 Corporate bond sales of $17.05 billion through yesterday
compare with $16.6 billion through the first three days of last
week, Bloomberg data show.  
 Following is a description of at least $6.9 billion of
pending sales of dollar-denominated bonds in the U.S.  
 Investment Grade  
 CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG, Switzerland’s second-largest bank,
is selling $1.5 billion of Tier 1 bonds, according to two people
with knowledge of the sale. The notes, callable after five
years, will carry a coupon of 7.875 percent, said the people,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Credit
Suisse is managing the sale of the bonds, which will be issued
through Claudius Ltd, the people said.  
 DOHA BANK QSC, Qatar’s third-largest bank, may raise as
much as $1 billion from bond sales, its chief executive officer
said. The money is likely to be raised for five years and is
meant to “fix the maturity mismatch” on the bank’s balance
sheet,  Raghavan Seetharaman  said in a June 16 telephone
interview from Doha. The bank will sell the bonds by the end of
this year in both dollars and the local riyal currency, the CEO
said in a July 25 interview. The lender said in April that it
planned to sell senior notes in dollars in a statement on the
Qatari bourse, without disclosing the size of the offering.  
 CHILE hired JPMorgan Chase & Co, Citigroup Inc. and HSBC
Holdings Plc to arrange the country’s first international bond
sale in six years, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said. Chile
will use proceeds of the 10-year bonds to help finance
rebuilding after a February earthquake, Larrain said. The
government plans to sell $1 billion of the securities in dollars
and $500 million “denominated in pesos,” Larrain said. Moody’s
upgraded Chile to Aa3 from A1 on June 16, citing “economic and
financial resilience even in the face of major adverse shocks,
including February’s historic earthquake.” S&P graded the
proposed notes A+.  
 FORETHOUGHT FINANCIAL GROUP INC. plans to sell $150 million
of 10-year bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set. S&P assigned the notes a grade of BBB- in a March 24
report.  
 Not Rated  
 BANCO BMG S.A., a Brazilian lender specializing in loans to
state retirees and workers, plans to sell 10-year bonds in
dollars, according to a person familiar with the offering. The
notes may yield about 9 percent, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set. The Belo Horizonte-
based bank hired Banco Bradesco SA, BCP Securities, Morgan
Stanley and Banco Santander SA to arrange the sale, the person
said.  
 STERICYCLE INC.  plans to issue $175 million of 7-year, 3.89
percent notes and $225 million of 10-year, 4.47 percent debt
after receiving commitments from 22 institutional investors to
buy the securities, it said in a statement distributed by
Business Wire.  
 The PROVINCE OF CORDOBA, Argentina, plans to sell as much
as $350 million of bonds in international markets once the
federal government completes a restructuring of defaulted debt,
Banco de Cordoba said. The province hired Citigroup Inc. and UBS
AG to arrange an overseas dollar bond sale, said a person
familiar with the transaction who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  
 High Yield  
 ENERGYSOLUTIONS INC. , the Salt Lake City-based nuclear
services company, plans to sell $300 million of senior unsecured
notes due 2018, the company said a July 28 statement distributed
by Marketwire. The company has amended its credit facilities and
plans to refinance them with borrowings under new loans and the
offering of senior notes, the company said in a July 13
statement. Standard & Poor’s assigned the proposed debt a rating
of BB- on July 15.  
 BANCO PANAMERICANO SA, the lender controlled by media
magnate Silvio Santos, plans to sell $300 million of five-year
dollar bonds, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The Sao Paulo-based bank hired Banco Bradesco SA,
Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Standard Bank Group Ltd. and UBS AG to
arrange the sale of senior unsecured notes, said the person, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Moody’s
rates the notes Ba2, it said in a report.  
 MULTIPLAN INC. may sell $650 million to $675 million of
bonds to help pay for its acquisition by BC Partners Ltd. and
Silver Lake, according to a person familiar with the
transaction. The health-care cost management company also seeks
a $1.3 billion term loan and a $75 million revolving line of
credit, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set.  
 FERRO CORP. plans to sell $250 million of senior notes as
it seeks to repurchase outstanding convertible debt due in 2013.
The company also is negotiating with lenders to enter into a new
credit facility, according to a statement distributed by
Business Wire.  
 KCA DEUTAG DRILLING GROUP LTD., a unit of private-equity
investor First Reserve Corp., is planning to sell $500 million
of eight-year bonds through Turbo Beta Plc, according to Alex
Christou, an Aberdeen, Scotland-based spokesman for the oil-
services company. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is managing the sale
with HSBC Holdings Plc, Lloyds TSB Banking Group Plc, Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and Natixis, a person with knowledge of
the transaction said. The notes may be rated CCC by S&P and Caa2
by Moody’s, according to a statement on the company’s website.  
 MARINA DISTRICT FINANCE COMPANY INC., owner of the Borgata
Hotel Casino & Spa in Atlantic City, plans to sell $725 million
of senior secured debt in two parts, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. The notes will be due in 2015 and
2018, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. Marina District Finance is Boyd Gaming Corp.’s
joint venture with MGM Resorts International. Proceeds will be
used to repay bank debt and fund a dividend, the person said.  
 TRILOGY INTERNATIONAL PARTNERS LLC, the wireless
communications provider, plans to sell $370 million of senior
secured notes, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s
rated the notes Caa1, it said in a report. Proceeds will be used
to refinance debt and finance growth in New Zealand, Moody’s
said. S&P rated the debt an equivalent CCC+. The notes will have
a maturity of six years, according to a person familiar with the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t
set.  
 UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC., the operator of more than
100 U.S. medical facilities that’s buying Psychiatric Solutions
Inc., cut its offering of senior unsecured notes to $250
million, according to a person familiar with the transaction. It
increased the size of the term loans it’s seeking by $100
million, said the person, who declined to be identified because
terms aren’t set. The King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based
company previously planned to issue $400 million of senior
unsecured debt to help finance the acquisition, according to a
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 E-LAND FASHION CHINA HOLDINGS LTD, the Hong Kong-based
apparel products provider, hired Morgan Stanley to help it sell
$200 million of three-year bonds, according to a person familiar
with the matter. The company plans to begin meeting with
investors in Asia, Europe and the U.S. on July 19, said the
person who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
Moody’s Investors Service assigned the proposed notes a Ba2,
citing growing personal consumption in China, E-Land Fashion’s
moderate scale and significant business volatility. Proceeds
will be used for mainly for capital expenditures and general
corporate purposes, Moody’s said in the report.  
 GENTIVA HEALTH SERVICES INC. , the U.S. home-nursing
company that is buying Odyssey HealthCare Inc., plans to sell
$305 million of eight-year notes, the Atlanta-based company said
in a May 24 regulatory filing, without specifying the timing of
the transaction. Proceeds will be used to help fund the
takeover, according to the filing. Standard & Poor’s assigned
the unsecured notes a B- credit rating on June 29. Moody’s
Investors Service rated the notes a grade of B2 and ranked $925
million of loans three steps higher at Ba2, it said in a report.  
 Offerings in Pipeline  
 NATIONAL BANK OF EGYPT, the country’s largest lender, plans
to sell its first international bonds and is meeting with fixed-
income investors, according to three people familiar with the
plan. The Cairo-based bank may offer a benchmark-sized issue,
said a banker, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set. The lender received approval from Egypt’s central
bank to sell as much as $1.5 billion of bonds and is meeting
with investors in Asia, London, Germany, the Middle East, and
Eastern Europe, said a bank official, who declined to be
identified. Benchmark issues are typically for at least $500
million.  
 IDBI BANK LTD., an Indian state-owned lender, is
considering a sale of bonds denominated in U.S. dollars to raise
about $500 million, Executive Director Melwyn Rego said in an
interview on July 21. HSBC Holdings Plc and Barclays Plc have
been hired to oversee the bank’s medium-term note program, Rego
said. BNP Paribas SA, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Standard Chartered Plc will help manage this sale of benchmark
notes, to be done through its Dubai branch, he said. The bonds
may have a maturity of five to five-and-a-half years, said Rego.  
 CZECH REPUBLIC plans to sell as much as $2 billion of
dollar bonds to diversify from koruna and euro debt,  Eduard Janota , former finance minister, said in an interview for Mlada
Fronta Dnes  newspaper .  
 POTASH CORPORATION OF SASKATCHEWAN INC. , the world’s
largest fertilizer company by capacity, filed a registration
statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
$2 billion of debt securities.  
 INDONESIA plans to name three banks to help it sell
approximately $650 million of Islamic bonds in October, Dahlan
Siamat, director for Islamic financing at the finance ministry,
said in a telephone interview in Jakarta. The government sold
its first international Islamic dollar bonds in April 2009.  
 OAO GAZPROMBANK , the lending unit of Russia’s gas export
monopoly, hired Barclays Capital, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, and UBS AG to organize meetings with investors in Europe
and Asia starting July 5, according to two people with knowledge
of the transaction.  
 CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE DESAROLLO SA Peru’s state
development bank known as Cofide, plans to sell as much as $250
million of dollar-denominated bonds, according to Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Linares. Linares said in an interview
in Lima, that the lender is selling long-term debt as it boosts
lending to local infrastructure projects. “Peru’s need for
infrastructure is huge,” Linares said. “The government is
trying to promote foreign investment in a long list of
projects.”  
 SRI LANKA plans to sell dollar-denominated bonds, according
to its central bank. The South Asian country’s third-ever
overseas offering is likely after August, Central Bank of Sri
Lanka Assistant Governor C.J.P. Siriwardena said in a telephone
interview on June 30.  
 JORDAN plans to sell about $500 million of bonds, Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in an interview on June 23.
The sale will be denominated in U.S. dollars “as it’s a stable
currency and the Jordanian dinar is pegged to it,” Abu Hammour
said.  
 URUGUAY may sell as much as $1 billion of bonds in 2011,
including $500 million of dollar-denominated debt,  Carlos Steneri , director of public credit at Uruguay’s Ministry of
Economy and Finance, said June 3 at a LatinFinance conference in
London. The dollar-denominated bonds may have a maturity of 20
years or more, Steneri said.  
 MALAYSIA plans to raise about $1 billion from its first
sale of conventional dollar bonds in eight years after drawing
bids for five times the Islamic debt it offered, a finance
ministry official said. The government may hire the same banks,
including CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and HSBC Holdings Plc, to
arrange the sale by Sept. 30, said the official, who declined to
be named as the discussions are private. Malaysia raised $1.25
billion from a Shariah-compliant dollar bond on May 27. Malaysia
is rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  
 SABIC CAPITAL , a unit of Saudi Basic Industries Corp., will
sell bonds when market conditions and rates are favorable, its
vice president for corporate finance  Mutlaq al-Morished  told al-
Arabiya television in Dubai on June 16. Sabic delayed a bond
sale because of unfavorable spreads, al-Morished said in a May
26 telephone interview. Sabic Capital had hired HSBC Holdings
Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
to manage a benchmark-sized offering.  
 GHANA is considering selling its second dollar bond in 2011
to tap investor demand as the start-up of oil production boosts
economic growth and narrows the budget deficit, Deputy Finance
Minister  Fifi Kwetey  said. The government is considering a “no-
deal roadshow” as early as the fourth quarter to gauge
international investors’ appetite, Kwetey said in a May 26
interview in Abidjan. Ghana sold its first global bond in 2007,
raising $750 million to help fund the construction of roads and
power plants.  
 ANGOLA received credit ratings from Moody’s, S&P, and Fitch
Ratings that put it on par with Nigeria, Lebanon and Belarus,
and paved the way for a planned sale of international bonds. The
southern African nation’s creditworthiness was rated at B+ by
S&P and Fitch, four levels below investment grade. Moody’s
assigned an equivalent ranking of B1.  
 EURASIAN NATURAL RESOURCES CORP. , a London-based iron ore
and alumina producer with operations in China and Russia, said
it delayed its first dollar bond sale. The company is
“postponing meetings with investors regarding a potential bond
issuance under its Euro Medium Term Note program until further
notice,” Charlotte Kirkham, a spokeswoman for ENRC, said in an
e-mail. The company had hired Deutsche Bank AG and Morgan
Stanley to manage the sale, according to a person familiar with
the transaction.  
 CHINA ORIENTAL GROUP CO.  plans to sell senior notes to
provide working capital and possibly to finance the purchase of
steel mills and iron ore assets in China. Deutsche Bank AG will
manage the sale with ING Groep NV, according to a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange.  
 BANK FOR INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM received
approval from the central bank to issue 7 trillion dong ($369
million) of notes and another 3 trillion dong of dollar-
denominated notes in 2010, according to a statement on State
Bank of Vietnam’s Web site.  
 BOLIVIA plans its first international bond sale in more
than 70 years as early as the end of 2011, Finance Minister  Luis Arce  said. He didn’t disclose the size of the offering.  
 POWER SECTOR ASSETS AND LIABILITIES MANAGEMENT CORP. of the
Philippines may sell between $750 million and $1.5 billion of
dollar-denominated bonds “anytime” to help refinance maturing
debt, Vice Chairman  Jose Ibazeta  said. The company manages the
finances of state utility National Power Corp.  
 BRISBANE AIRPORT CORP., owner of Australia’s third-busiest
airport, may sell bonds in the U.S. as it pursues new markets to
help refinance debt and pay for a new runway. The company is
considering a 10- or 15-year U.S. private placement and a five-
to seven-year Australian dollar bond sale in late 2010 or early
2011, Chief Financial Officer  Tim Rothwell  said in a phone
interview from Brisbane.  
 VIETNAM NATIONAL COAL-MINERAL INDUSTRIES GROUP, the state-
owned coal producer known as Vinacomin, plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds overseas to fund mining and energy
projects, according to Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Nguyen Van Hai .  
 FINLAND may sell five-year bonds denominated in dollars,
the Finnish Treasury said in a document posted on its Web site.  
 MONGOLIA plans to raise $500 million selling bonds this
year and the remainder of a planned $1.2 billion program will be
sold according to market conditions,  Batbayar Balgan , director
general of the financial and economic policy department of
Mongolia, said at a forum in Ulan Bator on June 16. The
government scaled back its plans for global bond sales after
Europe’s debt crisis drove up borrowing costs. Investment banks
are advising Mongolia to issue debt with maturities of 5 to 10
years, Bayartsogt said in a Feb. 9 interview. The securities may
yield 8 percent to 11 percent, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        