-- Unipetrol Sees Second-Quarter Ebit `Positive,' `Better' on Economic Gains
-- Douglas Lytle
-- 2010-07-29T08:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/unipetrol-sees-second-quarter-ebit-postive-better-than-in-1st-quarter.html

          
          
             Unipetrol AS , the Czech Republic’s
biggest producer of fuels and refined products, said its
earnings before interest and taxes, or Ebit, for the second
quarter will be “positive” and “better” than the figure
reported in the first three months of the year.  
 “Development of foreign exchange rates” is estimated to
have negatively influenced Unipetrol earnings by about 100
million koruna ($5.3 million), the company  said  today in a
statement on its website.  
 Refining margins dropped “slightly” during the quarter,
compared with the previous three-month period, it said. There
was higher demand for fuels connected with “improving
macroeconomic conditions” and exports and good weather.  
 “The news is positive for the stock,” said  Miroslav Adamkovic , an analyst at  Komercni Banka AS  in Prague. “The
improvement in refinery sales is above our expectations.”  
 Unipetrol rose as much as 7 koruna, or 3.4 percent, to 212
koruna, the biggest one-day jump since June 21. The shares were
trading up 2.9 percent as of 9:35 a.m. in Prague, heading for
the highest close in almost two years. The shares have gained 52
percent this year. The company will report second-quarter and
first-half earnings on Aug. 31.  
 ‘Priced In’  
 “The question is what is already priced in Unipetrol,”
Ceska Sporitelna analyst  Radim Kramule  said in a report today.
“We will definitely adjust our medium-term outlook but still
see the share price as too high.”  
 Kramule has a recommendation of “reduce” on Unipetrol,
with a target price of 140 koruna a share.  
 Revenue in the first quarter rose 24 percent to 18 billion
koruna and Ebit was 517 million koruna, compared with a loss of
127 million koruna a year earlier, the Czech unit of PKN Orlen
SA, Poland’s largest oil refiner, said on May 13.  
 Unipetrol said today petrochemical sales rose 4 percent
year on year during the second quarter and 4 percent quarter on
quarter, while refining sales rose 27 percent on the year and 31
percent on the quarter.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Douglas Lytle  at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        