-- Upfront Fees for Getting Consumers Out of Debt Banned by U.S. Regulator
-- Jeff Bliss
-- 2010-07-29T19:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/upfront-fees-for-getting-consumers-out-of-debt-banned-by-u-s-regulator.html

          
          
             The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
said it will ban companies from charging advance fees to
consumers who seek help paying off their debts.  
 FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said today the restriction is
part of a modified rule that will also require the companies to
estimate how much time and money it would take a consumer to pay
off a debt. The companies also will be barred from exaggerating
their success rates in advertisements and phone calls soliciting
customers, he said.  
 “Too many of these companies pick the last dollar out of
consumers’ pockets,” Leibowitz said in a statement at the White
House announcing the changes. “Far from leaving them better
off,” the companies “push them deeper into debt, even
bankruptcy.”  
 The FTC last year  proposed  the changes to a rule protecting
against telemarketing fraud, a move addressing consumer
complaints and concerns raised in Congress over the increasing
struggle by many Americans to pay bills during the recession.  
 John Ansbach, legislative director of the U.S.
Organizations for Bankruptcy Alternatives, a Houston-based
industry group, called the fee ban “a rather unbelievable,
incredulous misstep by the commission” that may be the “death
knell” for some firms.  
 Without the ability to charge upfront fees, some companies
will be forced to cut staff or go out of business, he said in an
interview. Ansbach said the group supported the requirements for
more disclosure by the companies.  
 Obama Initiatives  
 Today’s announcement was intended to highlight President
 Barack Obama ’s initiatives to protect consumers.  
 “This is part of the commitment President Obama is making
to the American people and that is going to benefit everyone,”
Vice President  Joe Biden  said at the White House gathering.  
 Thirteen million Americans are saddled with at least
$10,000 in credit-card debt, with an average of $16,000 per
household, said FTC Commissioner  Julie Brill  at a Senate
Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee hearing in April.
Debt-relief firms often target these vulnerable consumers, she
said.  
 A federal judge in April, at the FTC’s urging,  banned  eight
companies and their executives from selling mortgage-relief and
credit-repair services, ordering them to pay more than $7.5
million to consumers.  
 The FTC also  resolved  a separate 2008 lawsuit against
AmeriDebt Inc. and DebtWorks Inc., requiring them to send $12.7
million in refund checks to 287,000 people the agency said were
victimized by deceptive practices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington   jbliss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        