-- Turkish Bank Raises Foreign Currency Reserve Ratio to Reduce Liquidity
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-07-29T07:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/turkish-bank-raises-foreign-currency-reserve-ratio-to-reduce-liquidity.html

          
          
             Turkey’s central bank raised the
foreign currency requirement that banks must deposit, reversing
part of a step it took to increase liquidity during the global
financial crisis.  
 The bank in Ankara raised the requirement to 10 percent for
foreign currency loans from 9.5 percent, according to a
directive  published  in the Official Gazette today. The increase
will reduce foreign exchange liquidity by about $720 million,
the bank said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Today’s decision means the bank is halfway to reversing the
two percentage point cut it made to the foreign currency reserve
requirement on Dec. 5, 2008. On April 14 the bank outlined plans
for an exit strategy to unwind liquidity-boosting measures it
took in 2008 and 2009.  
 The bank “aims to kill two birds with one stone,”  Ozgur Altug , chief economist for BGC Partners in Istanbul, said in a
note to investors. “It implements its exit strategy and
reverses the helping measures and second, it tries to limit the
appreciation of the lira against other currencies.”  
 The lira was little changed, trading at 1.5124 per dollar
at 9:34 a.m. in Istanbul. It has strengthened against the dollar
since the start of July, when it was at 1.5845 per dollar.  
 Today’s decision won’t be enough to help Turkish exporters
and the bank should increase the size of its daily purchases of
dollars from the market,  Mehmet Buyukeksi , head of the Turkish
Exporters’ Assembly, told Bloomberg HT television today.  
 The bank holds auctions daily to buy up to $60 million as
it seeks to build up its  reserves , which stood at $72.5 billion
on July 16, according to a July 22 announcement.  
 The bank today left the reserve requirement for local
currency unchanged at 5 percent.  
 During the crisis the bank also lowered Turkish lira
reserve requirements, extended the term of repo auctions to
three months and acted as a broker to allow banks to borrow and
lend foreign currency.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        