-- Usiminas Says `Excessive' Iron-Ore Surge Limited Quarterly Profit Increase
-- Lucia Kassai
-- 2010-07-29T14:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/usiminas-says-net-income-rose-on-brazilian-demand-for-steel-higher-prices.html

          
          
             Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA , Brazil’s second-biggest steelmaker, said second-quarter net
income was little changed after an “excessive” increase in
iron-ore costs eroded gains from soaring sales.  
 Net income  rose to 338.8 million reais ($192 million) from
332.8 million reais in the year-earlier period,  Usiminas , as the
Belo Horizonte-based company is known, said today in a  statement 
on the Brazilian securities regulator’s website. Earnings per
share dropped to 69 centavos from 75 centavos. Net  sales  climbed
49 percent to 3.59 billion reais.  
 “The increase in sales volumes didn’t compensate for
higher iron-ore costs,”  Max Bueno , an analyst at Sao Paulo-
based Spinelli Corretora, said in a telephone interview today.
He rates the stock a “hold.”  
 Surging iron-ore sold in the spot market prompted producers
including  Vale SA  to double prices and replace a 40-year system
of annual contracts with quarterly accords earlier this year.
The spot price of iron ore in China more than doubled from the
prior year to average $159 a metric ton in the second quarter,
according to Steel Business Briefing data.  
 “We face bigger pressure on costs, reflecting the
excessive increase in one of the most important raw materials in
the steelmaking process -- iron ore,” Usiminas said.  
 Usimina’s  domestic sales  increased 54 percent to 3.15
billion reais from the year-earlier period, boosted by Brazil’s
economic growth. Latin America’s biggest economy will expand 7.2
percent this year, according to the median forecast in a central
bank survey of 100 economists published this week.  
 Rising Sales  
 International sales climbed 20 percent to 437 million
reais, Usiminas said.  
 High inventories may make it more difficult for Brazilian
steelmakers to pass rising costs through to customers in the
third quarter,  Felipe Reis , a Sao Paulo-based equity analyst for
Banco Santander SA, said in a telephone interview before the
report. Reis rates the stock a “buy.”  
 Usiminas said July 20 it plans to raise steel prices after
raw-material costs increased. Prices will increase by 3.5
percent to 6 percent as of Aug. 1, the company said.  
 Usiminas rose 1.4 percent to 53.34 reais in Sao Paulo
trading at 11:20 a.m. New York time. It’s up 10 percent this
year, compared with a 1.9 percent drop for the benchmark Bovespa
index.  
 Usiminas agreed to sell a stake in its mining and railroad
businesses to Sumitomo Corp. for $1.93 billion in June.  
 The earnings results were based on International Financial
Reporting Standards. The company didn’t report earnings per
share.  
 Gerdau SA is Brazil’s largest steelmaker.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lucia Kassai  in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        