-- Vale Offers $1.14 Billion for Brazil's Paranapanema to Boost Copper Output
-- Carlos Caminada
-- 2010-07-29T19:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/vale-offers-1-14-billion-for-brazil-s-paranapenama-to-boost-copper-output.html

          
          
             Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-
ore miner, said it plans to buy Brazilian copper producer
Paranapanema SA for 2.01 billion reais ($1.1 billion) as it
seeks to become one of the world’s top producers of the metal.  
 Rio de Janeiro-based Vale offered to buy all Paranapanema’s
voting stock for 6.30 reais a share at an auction on Sept. 1,
according to a Brazilian regulatory filing today. The bid
represents an 8.6 percent premium to yesterday’s closing price.
The offer is subject to the purchase of at least 50 percent plus
one of the company’s voting shares, according to Vale.  
 Vale , which already produces copper in  Brazil  and Canada,
said it aims to become one of the world’s largest producers of
the metal in the medium term, rivaling companies such as Xstrata
Plc and Anglo American Plc. Vale said this month it plans to
invest $400 million with African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. to
develop a new copper mine at Konkola North, northern Zambia.  
 The acquisition is “positive on the strategic front”
because it means Vale wouldn’t need to invest in additional
smelting capacity to process copper from its Salobo and Alemao
projects, Deutsch Bank analysts Rodrigo Barros and  Jorge Beristain  said in a note to clients today.  
 Paranapanema  produces about 220,000 tons of copper cathodes
per year at its Camacari smelter, in Brazil’s northeastern Bahia
state, with an expansion project expected to take that to
277,000 tons. The company also produces 78,000 tons of semi-
processed products such as sheet, tubes and bars at plants in
Sao Paulo and Espirito Santo states.  
 Stock Gains  
 Vale rose 24 centavos, or 0.6 percent, to 42.74 reais in
Sao Paulo trading at 2:49 p.m. New York time. Paranapanema
jumped 7.1 percent to a three-month high of 6.23 reais.  
 Vale currently produces about 300,000 tons per year of
copper from its Sossego mine in Brazil’s Para state and at the
Canadian sites of Sudbury and Voisey’s Bay.  
 Brazilian pension funds Previ and Petros and the
government’s BNDES development bank plan to sell their stakes in
Paranapanema, Valor Economico newspaper reported June 18,
without saying where it obtained the information.  
 Santiago-based Codelco, the world’s largest copper miner,
produced about 1.78 million tons last year. Freeport-McMoran
Copper & Gold Inc. is second, with 1.6 million tons. Xstrata is
ranked as the fourth-largest producer and Anglo sixth, according
to Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Caminada at   ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        