-- Mvelaphanda Holdings's Willcox Advising Zuma's Nephew on Congo Oil Blocks
-- Michael J. Kavanagh
-- 2010-07-29T16:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/mvelaphanda-holdings-s-willcox-advising-zuma-s-nephew-on-congo-oil-blocks.html

          
          
             Mvelaphanda Holdings Ltd., the South
African company founded by former freedom fighter  Tokyo Sexwale ,
is advising  Khulubuse Zuma  on the development of two oil blocks
in eastern Congo, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Willcox  said.  
 Last month, Congo awarded blocks 1 and 2 in Lake Albert to
Caprikat Ltd. and Foxwhelp Ltd. Both companies were incorporated
in March in the British Virgin Islands by Zuma, South African
President  Jacob Zuma ’s nephew.  
 Willcox is working as Zuma’s “strategic adviser” with a
team from Mvelaphanda, Willcox said by phone from Monaco
yesterday. Neither Willcox nor Mvelaphanda are shareholders in
the investment, which Willcox called one of “the most
interesting projects in Africa.”  
 The blocks are located in Albertine Graben along Congo’s
border with Uganda, where an estimated 2 billion barrels of oil
reserves have already been discovered. Congo, which is
recovering from four decades of war and dictatorship, wants to
begin exploration soon.  
 Mvelaphanda’s experience in African oil projects makes it
an ideal adviser to Zuma, Willcox said.  
 “I’ve built a number of substantial investments in South
Africa and Africa over the last 10 years,” Willcox said.
“Khula has asked me to help him and I’m helping him.” he said.
The two were together in the Congolese capital, Kinshasa, last
week to discuss the project, he said.  
 Production Sharing  
 A production-sharing agreement, or PSA, signed between
Zuma’s companies and Congo lists Caprikat’s address at the
Johannesburg office of Ophir Energy Plc, a company part-owned by
Mvelaphanda. An office registered to Sexwale, who is now South
Africa’s housing minister, is listed as the Foxwhelp address.  
 Willcox said Zuma was moving offices at the time of the
agreement and that neither Ophir, Sexwale, nor New Age
Petroleum, another of Mvelaphanda’s energy companies, are
involved in the deal “directly or indirectly.”  
 “Neither Mr. Sexwale nor his trust or any corporate
entities with which he is directly or indirectly associated have
or will receive any benefit from the DRC oil blocks,” Chris
Vick, a special adviser to Sexwale, said in an e-mail today.
Sexwale converted his business interests into blind trusts
when he joined the South African Cabinet, Vick said.  
 Giuseppe Ciccarelli, Zuma’s technical adviser, said
Mvelaphanda was among a number of South African groups that are
“interested” in the project.  
 “This does not mean that this group is involved in
ownership,” Ciccarelli said by phone from Milan yesterday.
“Zuma is the owner.”  
 On July 22, Zuma, Ciccarelli and Congolese Oil Minister
 Celestin Mbuyu  visited Bunia, a town near the oil blocks, to
meet with community leaders and assess a number of social
projects required by the PSA, Ciccarelli said. Mbuyu had his
phone turned off when called for comment by Bloomberg today.  
 Seismic Exploration  
 Caprikat and Foxwhelp will begin seismic exploration and
community development projects as soon as possible, Ciccarelli
said. The two companies will open an office in Kinshasa and
Bunia next week, he said.  
 Oil from the blocks will likely be shipped through a
pipeline from the Ugandan side of Lake Albert through blocks
controlled by London-based  Tullow Oil Plc , Ciccarelli said.
Tullow was given a license for Congo’s blocks 1 and 2 in 2006
and is considering legal action against Congo for giving the
blocks to Zuma, the company said in an e-mail on June 24. Tullow
never obtained a presidential decree to begin exploration.  
 Tullow vice president  Tim O’Hanlon  did not respond to an e-
mail or voice mail requesting comment.  
 Caprikat and Foxwhelp have already begun discussions with
Congo and Uganda about transporting the oil, Ciccarelli said.  
 “It is for sure in the interests of Congo and Uganda, but
also for Kenya because they will have the export terminal at the
port in Mombasa,” he said. “It’s in the interest of all three
countries to figure out a transnational solution, and I think
all three countries will work together.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Kavanagh  in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        