-- Venezuela to Tap $4 Billion of Chinese Credit Line for Development Efforts
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-07-29T19:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/venezuela-to-tap-4-billion-of-chinese-credit-line-for-development-efforts.html

          
          
             Venezuela will tap $4 billion of a
$20 billion long-term credit line with China to finance
development projects, Vice President  Elias Jaua  said today.  
 China agreed to extend the line of credit to Venezuela in
April. Venezuela will repay the $4 billion in part with future
oil shipments, Jaua said today on state television.  
 Venezuela, the largest oil producer in Latin America, is
diversifying its export markets and seeking loans from Russia to
Japan in a bid to boost output and finance social programs. The
financing from China is separate from a $12 billion bilateral
investment fund that Venezuela pays for with about 400,000
barrels of oil a day.  
 “This is one of the most important financing agreements
we’ve made in Venezuela’s history, not only because of the size
but also the conditions of respect and sovereignty,” Jaua said.
“We’re no longer dependent on financing from the International
Monetary Fund. These are reliable, durable credit lines.”  
 The $4 billion will go toward financing 19 development
projects involving electricity, agriculture, mining, technology
and oil, Jaua said. The $20 billion credit line consists of
$10 billion in U.S. currency and $10 billion in Chinese yuan.
Jaua didn’t say which currency Venezuela is tapping.  
 President  Hugo Chavez  said in April that the credit line is
the largest that  China Development Bank Corp.  has extended to
any country. Trade between China and Venezuela surged to
$8.9 billion in 2008 from $85.5 million in 1999, according to
Venezuelan state bank Bancoex.  
 “This loan has a payback mechanism of progressively larger
oil exports to China,” Jaua said today after meeting with a
Chinese delegation in Caracas.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        