-- Victoria's Secret's India Supplier Cheslind May Turn to Profit This Year
-- Jay Shankar
-- 2010-07-29T10:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/victoria-s-secret-s-india-supplier-cheslind-may-turn-to-profit-this-year.html

          
          
             Cheslind Textiles Ltd ., a maker of
cotton yarn that supplies to brands including  Victoria’s Secret 
and Calvin Klein, may turn to profit this year as the company
cuts costs and adds new products.  
 The company based in Bangalore is targeting a gross profit
of 180 million rupees ($3.9 million) in the year ending March 31,
 Prakash Maheshwari , director at Cheslind said. The company has
posted losses for four straight years, according to Bloomberg
data.  
 Cheslind increased production of organic cotton yarn by 33
percent to meet rising demand from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and
lingerie retailer Victoria’s Secret as the global economy
recovers from the worst recession since World War II. The
underwear and nightwear market in the U.S. may grow 2.4 percent
to $12.9 billion this year after declining 8.6 percent in 2009,
according to data from Euromonitor International.  
 “I will fail the banks and institutions that supported
us,” should the company fall short of its  profit  goal,
Maheshwari said in an interview today. “I need to earn gross
profit of at least 50 million rupees every quarter by
introducing various value-added products and through cost
control measures.”  
 Cheslind Textiles makes yarn for Pacific Textiles Holdings
Ltd., which tailors fabrics for Calvin Klein and Victoria’s
Secret.  
 Shares Surge  
 The company’s  shares , which have risen 59 percent this year,
climbed 6.9 percent to 15.50 rupees at close of trading in
Mumbai. The shares surged as much as 9.7 percent intraday.  
 State Bank of India,  India’s largest lender, Canara Bank,
IDBI Bank Ltd. and ICICI Bank Ltd, lent 220 million rupees to
Cheslind in June last year, Maheshwari said.  
 Cotton prices surged 54 percent in 2009, the most since
1975. Prices hit a two-year high on April 26 and have since
fallen 13 percent. India, which halted export registration in
April, will lift curbs in the year starting Oct. 1, Textile
Commissioner  A.B. Joshi  said earlier this month.  
 “We expect Cheslind to turn profitable from the year
ending March 31 onwards on account of improved global textile
demand, better realization and synergies in productivity and
efficiency,”  Kamna Jain , an analyst at SKP Securities Ltd.,
wrote in a report on July 9.  
 The company is exploring markets in Brazil, Peru, South
Africa, Tunisia, Dubai, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia to help boost
growth, Maheshwari said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        