-- Vietnam's Debt Rating Lowered by Fitch on Foreign Borrowing, `Weak' Banks
-- Jason Folkmanis
-- 2010-07-29T08:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/vietnam-s-debt-rating-lowered-by-fitch-on-foreign-borrowing-weak-banks.html

          
          
             Vietnam’s debt rating was lowered by
Fitch Ratings on concern about the nation’s “inconsistent”
economic policy, foreign-exchange reserves and banking system.  
 The country’s long-term foreign and local-currency ratings
were cut to B+ from BB-, with a stable outlook, Fitch said in a
statement today. The new rating is four steps below investment
grade and contrasts with improving creditworthiness this year
among emerging markets from Indonesia to Ukraine.  
 Fitch highlighted a budget deficit it expects to stay
“high” at 7.6 percent of gross domestic product in 2010, which
the government is financing partly by issuing foreign-currency
debt even when the nation is running a current-account deficit.  
 “Vietnam’s sovereign creditworthiness has deteriorated on
the back of weaker external finances and rising external
financing requirements amid an inconsistent macroeconomic policy
framework,”  Ai Ling Ngiam , a director in Fitch’s Asia Sovereign
team, said in today’s release. She also cited a “weak banking
system.”  
 The International Monetary Fund said last month that
Vietnam’s foreign reserves had declined to the equivalent of
seven weeks of imports from less than two-and-a-half months in
December. It estimated the current-account deficit would be 9.9
percent of GDP this year, down from 10.4 percent in 2009.  
 Dong ‘Vulnerable’  
 Fitch said Vietnam’s foreign-exchange reserves had declined
to $13.8 billion in March, before recovering “marginally,”
without giving a figure. It said the Vietnamese dong is
vulnerable to shocks to domestic confidence.  
 The currency, which was devalued in February, was little
changed at 19,075 per dollar at 12:02 p.m. and has fallen 3.2
percent this year. The benchmark Ho Chi Minh stock index closed
little changed at 491.11.  
 “External debt levels for Vietnam look manageable,” said
 Matt Hildebrandt , a Singapore-based economist for JPMorgan Chase
& Co. “The downgrade was appropriate because Vietnam’s credit
quality is weaker than peers such as Indonesia and the
Philippines, but I wouldn’t expect any further downgrades by
Fitch, and I think the risk of a default is very low.”  
 Vietnam’s policy makers have urged banks to reduce lending
costs to bolster the economy even as inflation has held above 8
percent since February. Consumer prices rose 8.19 percent in
July from a year earlier, compared with 8.69 percent in June.  
 Against the Grain  
 “The authorities have gone back and forth on fighting
inflation or supporting growth, and their recent focus on
driving rates lower goes against the grain of other Asian
central banks,” said  Tai Hui , the head of Southeast Asian
economic research at Standard Chartered Plc in Singapore.  
 Vietnam’s move to target growth over managing inflation is
a “dangerous strategy,” given its “low” level of foreign
reserves and a lack of confidence in the dong,  Kevin Grice , a
London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in a July
19 note.  
 Vietnam’s sovereign credit-default swaps rose after Fitch
lowered the country’s rating. The five-year price rose 5 basis
points to 225 basis points, according to Deutsche Bank AG
prices. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. Vietnam raised
$1 billion when it sold its second foreign bond in January, the
first such sale since its initial offering in 2005.  
 “There are no plans for any new government sovereign-debt
sales anytime soon so Fitch’s move wouldn’t have any impact
there, though there may be some negative implications for the
bonds that are already out there,” said  Lawrence Wolfe ,
director of business development at DongA Securities Co. in Ho
Chi Minh City.  
 Trade Deficit  
 Vietnam’s trade deficit widened in July from the previous
month on falling exports. The shortfall reached $1.15 billion
from a revised $742 million in June. For the seven months
through July, the deficit was $7.4 billion, almost twice the
figure for the same period last year.  
 The nation’s economic growth accelerated to 6.4 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier. Outstanding loans rose
10.52 percent in the first six months of the year. The central
bank’s full-year target for credit growth is 25 percent and
Prime Minister  Nguyen Tan Dung ’s government is targeting 6.5
percent GDP expansion in 2010.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Folkmanis  in Berkeley, California at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        