-- Visa Says Justice Department Weighing Antitrust Suit
-- Peter Eichenbaum
-- 2010-07-29T17:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/visa-says-justice-department-is-considering-antitrust-lawsuit-on-payments.html

          
          
             Visa Inc. , the world’s biggest
payments network, fell as much as 5 percent after saying the
U.S. Department of Justice may sue the company over a policy
that bars merchants from charging extra to customers who pay
with credit cards.  
 “The department has indicated that it is considering
filing a civil lawsuit,” Chief Executive Officer  Joseph W. Saunders  said yesterday in a conference call with analysts after
San Francisco-based Visa reported fiscal third-quarter results.
“We are currently engaged in constructive negotiations with the
department to resolve its concerns as it relates to Visa without
litigation or payment of monetary damages.”  
 Visa,  American Express Co.  and Purchase, New York-based
 MasterCard Inc.  disclosed in 2008 that the Justice Department
was investigating the companies over so-called anti-surcharging
policies and rules prohibiting merchants from “steering”
customers to other forms of payment.  
 The Justice Department’s antitrust division is
“investigating whether certain credit-card network rules
regarding merchants’ treatment of various payment forms,
including credit cards, are anticompetitive,” spokeswoman  Gina Talamona  said in an e-mail. She declined to discuss specific
companies.  
 Visa dropped $3.40, or 4.5 percent, to $71.78 at 1:04 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after touching
$71.40. MasterCard declined 1.7 percent and AmEx fell less than
1 percent.  
 ‘Regulatory Uncertainty’  
 The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions that address some of
the complaints raised by the Justice Department and a pending
federal antitrust lawsuit brought by merchants against Visa and
MasterCard. One of the rules pushed by U.S. Senator  Richard Durbin , the Illinois Democrat and majority whip, will allow
merchants to offer discounts for various forms of payment.  
 FBR Capital Markets analyst  Scott Valentin  cited
“regulatory uncertainty” in lowering his forecast for Visa,
saying the shares may climb to $96 within 12 months, down from
$115.  
 “Management commentary lacked specifics regarding the
impact of the Durbin amendment,” Valentin said today in a note
to clients. He continues to rate the shares “outperform.”  
 The legislation and Saunders’s comments may indicate that
Visa also is working to avoid a trial by settling the merchants’
lawsuit, said  Jason Kupferberg , an analyst with UBS Securities
LLC.  
 ‘Differential Pricing’  
 “The Durbin amendment has effectively legalized
differential pricing for all tender types, which may address the
anti-surcharging and anti-steering practices that the DOJ was
examining,” Kupferberg said in an interview.  
 It’s too early to tell whether the legislation and a
Justice Department lawsuit would lead to a settlement in the
merchants’ case, said K.  Craig Wildfang , lead attorney for the
plaintiffs.  
 “Having another government agency conclude that these
things are anticompetitive -- it’s been true around the world --
and to have the DOJ weigh in on this, would be, in the grand
scheme of things, helpful to the private plaintiffs,” Wildfang
said in a telephone interview.  
 MasterCard, which is scheduled to report second-quarter
results on Aug. 3, didn’t address Visa’s comments.  
 “We’ve been cooperating fully with the DOJ since they
issued their civil investigative demand in October 2008,”
MasterCard spokesman James Issokson said in a telephone
interview.  
 Joanna Lambert  of New York-based American Express declined
to comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 29 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
