-- Vision-Ease Lens Sues Transitions Optical on Eyeglass Antitrust Claims
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-07-29T20:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/vision-ease-lens-sues-transitions-optical-on-eyeglass-antitrust-claims.html

          
          
             Vision-Ease Lens Inc., a unit of
IEAP X LP, sued  PPG Industries Inc. ’s Transitions Optical Inc.
and accused it of monopolizing the market for eyeglass lenses
that darken when exposed to sunlight.  
 Transitions, based in Pinellas Park, Florida, controls more
than 85 percent of the light-responsive lens market, IEAP
contends in a July 27 complaint in federal court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  
 In response to competition, Transitions adopted “a general
policy not to deal with any lens manufacturer that sold or
promoted a competing photochromic lens,” and tried, but failed,
to get Vision-Ease to take a license for its technology,
according to court papers.  
 Vision Ease seeks a jury trial and alleges Transitions’
actions increase lens prices, deter competition, reduce
innovation and reduce consumer choice.  
 “The Vision-Ease case seems to us to be lacking in merit,
and we expect to defend it vigorously,” a Transitions
spokesman, Dan McLean, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Transitions agreed  in March to stop alleged anticompetitive
practices under a settlement with the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission. The Delaware lawsuit filed by IEAP, also known as
Insight Equity, seeks unspecified actual and punitive damages.  
 The FTC said the special lenses in 2008 had about
$630 million in wholesale sales.  
 Pittsburgh-based PPG rose 16 cents to $69 at 2:41 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have risen
about 18 percent this year.  
 The case is Insight Equity v. Transitions Optical, 10CV635,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        