-- Volatility Trade Buffett Embraced Backfiring for Hedge Experts
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/volatility-trade-buffett-embraced-backfires-for-wall-street-hedge-experts.html

          
          
             A bullish stock market trade
embraced by the smartest money is backfiring. And that has
investors wondering if what Warren Buffett and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc . know about derivatives is obsolete.  
 Goldman Sachs, the world’s most profitable securities firm,
reported losses from derivatives last quarter after selling
insurance that protected clients against stock swings during the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s biggest retreat in more than a
year. Buffett, the chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc ., underwrote $37 billion of the contracts since
2004, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission show.  
 The combination of hedging by insurance companies, tighter
regulation of bank speculation and reluctance among securities
firms to write derivatives known as variance swaps means
speculators who sold them are now facing losses, according to
Morgan Stanley and Societe Generale SA. Money-losing trades in
both rising and falling markets show the hazards of the business
for even  Wall Street ’s most sophisticated investors.  
 “It’s as extreme as I’ve ever seen,” said Neil Davies,
head of structured equity products at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Capital Markets in Atlanta. “There’s a lot of uncertainty in
the over-the-counter volatility market, illustrated by the fact
that long-dated volatility levels are reminiscent of October
2008. Rumors abound, specifically that some institutions are
closing out short positions.”  
 Playing Volatility  
 Goldman Sachs said its bets that stock swings would narrow
lost money in the second quarter, according to its earnings
statement. While the firm didn’t break out the loss, Goldman
Sachs said revenue in the division arranging the trades slumped
62 percent from a year earlier to $1.21 billion.  Ed Canaday , a
spokesman for the New York-based company, declined to comment.  
 “Primarily in response to our client needs, our equity
derivatives business was short volatility entering the second
quarter and posted poor results,” Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said on a conference call with reporters on July 20. “We
took the other side because you know we deal with our clients
all the time,” he said. “We had that position going into the
quarter and volatility just spiked.”  
 The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
ended the first quarter at 17.59, rose as high as 45.79 on May
20 as the S&P 500 lost 8.4 percent. The VIX, a measure of
investor expectations for stock swings known as implied
volatility, has since decreased to 24.25, or 19 percent above
the average over its two-decade history, while the equity index
has rebounded 3.2 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 ‘Consenting Adults’  
 “Either they took the position on purpose or they took it
because they couldn’t get anyone else to take it,” said Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , which oversees about $57 billion. “There
are two consenting adults to every trade on the over-the-counter
market or on an exchange. They consented at some level, and
maybe their hedges were bad. Maybe they sincerely believed in
the trade and they got hung out to dry.”  
 While demand for insurance against declines in the next 30
days retreated as shares rallied this month, prices for longer-
dated protection surged to a record. Ten-year variance swaps,
contracts that pay buyers when stock swings increase, are
trading at levels that imply S&P 500 volatility is poised to
exceed its rate during the 2008 credit crisis, Paris-based
Societe Generale’s data show.  
 Sellers’ Strike  
 Swaps are agreements between parties to exchange one right
for another, while variance swaps let investors speculate on the
magnitude of movements by an index. They are a type of
derivative, or contract whose value is derived from stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events such as changes in  interest rates  or price fluctuations.  
 Over-the-counter variance swaps have appreciated so rapidly
that firms that sold swaps in January at a volatility level of
28.5 and $1 million per point faced paper losses of as much as
about $8.2 million this month when swap rates rose to a record
38.5 points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Societe
Generale. Their expected gain based on past volatility levels
would have been about $5 million, according to  Societe Generale .  
 Life insurers, which sell retirement products with
guaranteed minimum returns even in declining markets,  rely on 
derivatives to hedge against stock slumps. Variable annuity
sales rose 5 percent in the first three months of the year to
$32.4 billion, the first quarterly increase in two years,
according to Limra International, a trade group.  
 ‘Liquidity Shortage’  
 “Wall Street historically has been able to meet demands for
longer-dated volatility products,” said Pav Sethi, chief
investment officer of Chicago-based hedge fund Gladius
Investment Group, which uses variance swaps. “Regulations,
tighter risk limits at the banks and a limited number of
interested participants have created a large liquidity
shortage.”  
 The financial regulation bill signed into law July 21 by
U.S. President  Barack Obama  strengthens oversight of derivatives
and forces banks to take less risk with their own capital. How
that will affect banks and insurers isn’t clear yet, causing
some institutions to scale back their use of derivatives, Morgan
Stanley analysts said in the July 15 note.  
 “Originally it was large institutions hedging their long-
dated exposures,” said Anand Omprakash, an equity derivatives
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in  New York . “After that started
pushing implied volatility levels up, there were other parties
who started to cover their short positions. This drove the price
up significantly.”  
 Margin Call  
 Berkshire lobbied Congress against a higher collateral
requirement for previously written derivatives trades under the
financial reform law,  David Sokol , the head of the company’s
energy business, said in April. Buffett, who uses derivatives to
speculate on the direction of stock markets, has about $37
billion at risk in equity-linked contracts, whose pricing may be
influenced by the variance swaps market. Buffett didn’t reply to
a request for comment e-mailed to an assistant.  
 “He handcuffed himself during the crisis by selling puts
at the top of the market,” said  Jeff Matthews , author of
“Pilgrimage to  Warren Buffett ’s Omaha,” a Berkshire investor
and founder of hedge fund Ram Partners LP. “His whole company
is a bet on a rising market over a very long period of time. So
to then sell derivatives on the basis of that is doubling the
chips on black. And that limits his flexibility when he gets the
chance to really deploy massive amounts of capital during the
crisis.”  
 Equity Premium  
 Berkshire got premiums of  $4.9 billion  on the equity index
puts and is free to invest that cash over the lifetime of the
contracts, Buffett said in his letter to shareholders last year.
At the time he estimated Berkshire would owe about $9 billion if
the four indexes it covers fell 25 percent from their levels
when the contracts were written. Buffett has said Berkshire sold
the swaps from 2004 to the first quarter of 2008. Buffett’s
contracts mature between  June 2018 and January 2028 .  
 “We are delighted that we hold the derivatives contracts
that we do,” Buffett said in his  letter  to shareholders in
February. “If Berkshire ever gets in trouble, it will be my
fault. It will not be because of misjudgments made by a Risk
Committee or Chief Risk Officer.”  
 Berkshire posted $550 million in collateral on the equity
index derivatives and its credit default swaps at the end of
2008. As markets recovered in 2009, the requirement plummeted to
$35 million at Dec. 31. In the second quarter of 2009, Buffett
renegotiated six of the equity index puts to shorten the
durations and lower the strike prices.  
 More Cash  
 Buffett drew down Berkshire’s $44 billion in cash during
the 2008 credit crisis to finance companies whose traditional
sources of funding pulled back. Deals to inject $5 billion into
Goldman Sachs and $3 billion into General Electric Co. pay 10
percent coupons and boosted Berkshire’s investment income. The
premiums gave Buffett more cash to invest, said  Thomas Russo , a
partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania .  
 “What really did matter was that he had ready cash to
invest, $5 billion of it, during one of the great buying
opportunities of all time,” Russo, a Berkshire shareholder,
said. “He’s been historically unrivaled by his willingness to
take on short-term pain for long-term risks.”  
 The stock market’s retreat from its 2007 peak has led to
billions of dollars of charges against Berkshire’s earnings. As
of March 31, the Omaha, Nebraska-based company listed a
liability of $7.13 billion related to the contracts on its
balance sheet, up about 55 percent from the end of 2007.  
 Investment Income  
 Buffett says Berkshire has no counterparty risk because it
collects premiums at the inception of each contract, and that
the collateral requirements are minimal. The 79-year-old
investor says he expects the contracts to be profitable, even if
Berkshire has to pay out, because of investment income he
expects to generate over the decade or two he holds the premium.  
 “The shadow of Warren Buffett really impacts the
psychology of both positive and negative market bets,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who oversees about $1 billion as chief
investment strategist at YCMNet Advisors in Walnut Creek,  California . “Him exiting these trades will impact variance,
because his movement alone will increase the anxiety levels in
these markets.”  
 
Berkshire Equity Index Options Positions, in Billions:

2010      Assets         Liabilities         Maximum loss
1Q        --               $7.131              $36.760

2009
4Q        --               $7.309              $37.990
3Q        --               $8.012              $38.592
2Q        --               $8.233              $37.480
1Q        --               $10.188             $35.489

2008
4Q        --               $10.022             $37.134
3Q        --               $6.725              $37.042
2Q        --               $5.845              $39.878
1Q        --               $6.171              $40.088

2007
4Q        --               $4.610              $35.043

2006
4Q        $0.016           $2.463              $21.396

2005
4Q        $0.035           $1.592              $14.488

2004
4Q        $0.069           $0.380              $4.626
 
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ,
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Berkshire Hathaway Inc chairman and chief executive officer Warren Buffett. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
