-- Volkswagen Quarterly Profit Quadruples on China, U.S.
-- Andreas Cremer
-- 2010-07-29T14:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/volkswagen-posts-biggest-quarterly-profit-in-two-years-on-golf-a5-demand.html

          
          
             Volkswagen AG , Europe’s largest
carmaker, reported the biggest quarterly profit in two years on
higher demand in China for the namesake brand’s Jetta and Lavida
and the Audi luxury unit’s A6.  
 Second-quarter operating profit in China, VW’s largest
market since 2009, more than doubled to 518 million euros ($677
million) from 193 million euros a year earlier, according to
figures released by the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company today.
Group  net income  in the period quadrupled to 1.25 billion euros.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  needs China to
help achieve his goal of surpassing Toyota Motor Corp. in sales
and profitability by 2018. The CEO in the last two months
announced plans to build two new plants in China, the world’s
biggest automobile market, to double production capacity.  
 “China has become hugely important for VW’s business
targets,” said  Frank Biller , a Stuttgart-based analyst with
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg who recommends buying the stock.
“The margin per car is clearly in the double-digit range.”  
 Volkswagen’s preferred  shares  rose as much as 3.16 euros,
or 4 percent, to 81.75 euros and were up 2.5 percent to 80.55
euros as of 4:39 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained
23 percent in 2010, valuing the carmaker at 35.1 billion euros.  
 Second-quarter net income beat the 721 million-euro median
estimate of nine analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Earnings
before interest and tax more than doubled to 1.99 billion euros
as revenue rose 22 percent to 33.2 billion euros.  
 China Reliance  
 Volkswagen, the first overseas carmaker to enter the
Chinese market three decades ago, is counting on the country to
offset stagnating sales in Europe, where the end of government
scrapping incentives is hitting demand for vehicles. First-half
industrywide sales in Europe rose 0.6 percent. Deliveries of
passenger cars in China in the period soared 48 percent.  
 Revenue  and operating profit this year will be
“significantly higher’ than in 2009, Volkswagen said today, as
China boosts the carmaker to record deliveries in 2010. VW’s
first-half China sales advanced 46 percent to 950,729 vehicles,
accounting for 26 percent of deliveries worldwide.  
 “We’re operating right at the edge of capacity utilization
and have to add capacities as quickly as possible to maintain
our position,” Chief Financial Officer  Hans Dieter Poetsch  said
today on a conference call, citing demand for the Golf compact,
VW’s best-selling model, and the Tiguan SUV.  
 ‘Unbelievably Fast’  
 “China is developing unbelievably fast,” he said. There’s
a risk “of a smart, soft cooling down” of the Chinese economy
in the second half, he said.  
 Rival  PSA Peugeot Citroen , Europe’s second-largest
carmaker, said yesterday its auto unit may lose money in the
second half as demand in Europe, which accounts for two-thirds
of sales, slumps. The European market will shrink 7 percent for
the full year, the carmaker said. Helped by a second Chinese
joint venture announced this month, the Peugeot aims to generate
half its sales outside Europe by 2015.  
 As  Volkswagen’s  reliance on China increases, the risk for
the carmaker rises should the market slow down. China’s car
sales in June advanced 19 percent, the slowest pace in 15
months, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers said
July 9. Auto dealers’ inventories have risen due to a quickening
inflation rate, which rose to an annual 3.1 percent in May.  
 Slowdown Opportunities  
 “A slowdown in China seems negative for VW on first glance
though it actually entails opportunities for future business,”
said  Horst Schneider , a Dusseldorf-based analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc who has an “overweight” recommendation on the
stock. “Chinese carmakers may suffer the most from any
deterioration of the domestic market, that creates chances for
VW and other foreign rivals to gain market share.”  
 Volkswagen’s two new Chinese factories will bring the
carmaker’s total in its biggest market to 11 as VW doubles
 production  in China to 3 million vehicles within four years from
1.4 million in 2009. VW in investing 6 billion euros in the
country to fund the expansion and add new models.  
 Winterkorn is targeting a pretax profit in 2018 that
exceeds 8 percent of sales, compared with 1.4 percent in the
first three quarters of 2009, as well as a medium-term operating
margin of at least 5 percent of  revenue .  
 “A market that absorbs about a fourth of VW’s deliveries
is absolutely indispensable if VW wants to surpass Toyota,”
Biller said. “Without sustained growth in China, this plan will
simply not be feasible.”  
 New China Chief  
 The carmaker two months ago named  Karl-Thomas Neumann , head
of the company’s electric-car division, to take over the Chinese
operations beginning in September from  Winfried Vahland , who
will run the Skoda brand. VW reported increasing profits in
China in the last five years under Vahland, who reversed the
losses and falling market share plaguing the operations when he
took the helm in 2005.  
 Neumann will need to update aging models and create more
cars designed for Chinese consumers to build on Vahland’s
success, analysts said.  
 “Their solid base in China, good reputation and ability to
tailor cars to Chinese buyers’ needs have propelled VW’s success
in that market,” said  Tim Schuldt , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Equinet AG who recommends buying the stock. “All told, I see no
acute need for change.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Volkswagen AG chief executive officer Martin Winterkorn,. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
