-- Wells Fargo's Stumpf Sees New Costs for Customers
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-29T13:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/wells-fargo-s-stumpf-say-customers-will-share-cost-of-new-bank-regulations.html

          
          
             Wells Fargo & Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  John Stumpf  said customers, not just the bank, will bear
the financial burden for U.S. regulations that cover services
ranging from home loans to credit cards.  
 “I can’t guarantee that we won’t pass on some of those
costs,” Stumpf, 56, said in an interview at his San Francisco
office. “We’ll try to tighten our belt and absorb some of the
costs of compliance, but some costs may change and customers
might pay for their financial services in new ways.”  
 Stumpf’s comments add to evidence that new rules mean new
expenses for consumers as banks make up for lost revenue and
increased costs. JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO  Jamie Dimon  said July
15 the legislation may translate into higher fees and credit-
card rates, and  Bank of America Corp. ’s  Brian T. Moynihan  told
shareholders a day later he’s looking for ways to soften the
impact on annual revenue, which the lender said could be $2.3
billion.  
 Wells Fargo, with the biggest U.S. branch network, is
already passing on costs by charging for checking accounts and
raising interest rates on credit cards and loans, said  Richard Bove , a banking analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC. The bank
ended free checking last month by adding a $5 monthly fee for
customers who don’t meet certain conditions.  
 “This bank does not intend to sit there and get nailed,”
said Bove, who recently upgraded Wells Fargo shares to a
“ buy .” “Wells Fargo has moved well ahead of the crowd, and
everyone will follow.”  
 New Rules  
 President  Barack Obama  signed into law last week a 2,300-
page overhaul of financial regulation that gives the government
authority to unwind failing financial firms, imposes new rules
on derivatives markets and creates a consumer-protection agency
to monitor loans and services. Stumpf said it’s too early to
judge the costs for Wells Fargo, in part because the bank is
looking for ways to offset expenses and lost revenue.  
 Even with the bill’s shortcomings, Congress got many parts
of it right, Stumpf said in the July 22 interview. The creation
of a systemic risk regulator will prevent another crisis from
being sparked by the collapse of a large financial firm, he
said. The Financial Stability Oversight Council, a super-
regulator, will monitor Wall Street’s  largest firms  and other
market participants to spot emerging systemic risks.  
 “Too-big-to-fail has been dealt with,” said Stumpf, whose
bank holds $1.2 trillion of assets. “Regulators needed a way to
understand risk at the top of the house and opine on that risk.
They did it in a way that makes a lot of sense.”  
 Not Enough  
 Some of the new consumer protections don’t go far enough
because they contain too many exemptions, Stumpf said. Auto
dealers and banks with less than $10 billion in  assets  may be
exempt from some curbs.  
 Consistent consumer protection rules are “good for
Americans and it’s good for us as providers because we know the
playing field is level,” Stumpf said. “Does it become less
level because the consumer-protection agency has direct
involvement with certain companies and not others, and will rely
on other regulators to do it? I don’t know. That’s where the
trickiness comes up.”  
 Wells Fargo, which ranks fourth by assets and third by
deposits among U.S. banks, has dropped 20 percent since the
middle of 2007 when credit markets began to falter, compared
with 17 percent through yesterday for New York-based JPMorgan
and 71 percent for Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North
Carolina. New York’s Citigroup Inc. slid 92 percent.  
 Wells Fargo rose 18 cents to $28.25 at 9:35 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The biggest  stakeholder 
is Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the insurance and holding company
controlled by billionaire  Warren Buffett .  
 Durbin Amendment  
 Stumpf singled out new curbs on debit interchange fees for
criticism. Under the so-called Durbin amendment, the Federal
Reserve gets authority to limit interchange, or “swipe” fees,
that merchants pay for each debit-card transaction. The measure
pushed by Senator  Richard Durbin  lets retailers refuse credit
cards for purchases of less than $10 and offer discounts based
on the form of payment.  
 “That is a dispute between banks and merchants and it
somehow found its way into regulatory reform,” Stumpf said. He
told analysts on July 21, “I don’t see how debit card fees
between banks and merchants had anything to do with  what
happened  in the last couple of years.”  
 Stumpf isn’t the only financial leader voicing displeasure.
Card industry executives say the legislation amounts to price
controls, and American Express Co. Vice Chairman  Ed Gilligan 
said June 15, before the language was finalized, that the Durbin
amendment “provides no benefit to consumers.” The largest
payment networks,  Visa Inc.  and MasterCard Inc., also opposed
the amendment.  
 Derivatives  
 New rules on derivatives will mandate that swaps between
banks and major users like hedge funds and asset managers be
backed by clearinghouses. Stumpf said moving those trades to
clearinghouses would help show the true size of the derivatives
market, but doesn’t address what happens when a borrower doesn’t
pay or a member of the clearinghouse collapses, he said.  
 “Somebody’s got to take the credit risk,” Stumpf said.
His concern was echoed by  Joel Telpner , a partner with the law
firm Jones Day in New York, who spoke in a July 26 interview.  
 “Maybe we are creating new entities that are too big to
fail and setting up a scenario in the future where we’re going
to be arguing and anguishing about bailing out the
clearinghouses,” Telpner said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     John Stumpf, chief executive officer of Wells Fargo & Co. Photographer: Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
