-- Wynn Resorts Quarterly Profit Doubles After Opening of Second Macau Casino
-- Beth Jinks
-- 2010-07-29T23:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/wynn-resorts-quarterly-profit-doubles-after-opening-of-second-macau-casino.html

          
          
             Wynn Resorts Ltd. , owner of casino
resorts in Las Vegas and Macau, reported second-quarter profit
doubled after it opened a second property in the only part of
China where casinos are legal.  
 Net income climbed to $52.4 million, or 42 cents a share,
from $25.5 million, or 21 cents, a year earlier, Las Vegas-based
Wynn said today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit of
52 cents beat the 42-cent average estimate of 20  analysts 
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 As Las Vegas begins to recover from a record two-year
slump, Macau is booming. Wynn opened Encore Macau in April,
doubling its presence in the world’s biggest casino center,
where overall gambling revenue surged 67 percent in the first
half of 2010. Plans to build a third resort in Macau’s Cotai
area are ahead of schedule, founder and Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Wynn  said on a conference call today.  
 “Business is slightly better in Las Vegas, we’re noticing
a little improvement,” Wynn said. Adding Encore in Macau with
“high-end pits” helped the company attract more than its
“fair share,” he said.  
 Macau revenue soared 74 percent in the quarter, boosting
companywide sales 38 percent to $1.03 billion, which beat the
$983.6 million analysts expected. Casino growth in the Chinese
territory exploded after the government ended Stanley Ho’s 40-
year monopoly and let foreign companies, including Wynn and Las
Vegas Sands Corp., build resorts that attract mainlanders.  
 Las Vegas Attraction  
 Cash flow, measured as adjusted property earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, rose 46 percent
to $281.4 million. It was boosted by an 84 percent jump in Macau
Ebitda, which more than offset a 14 percent decline in Vegas.  
 Resort operators in Las Vegas, the largest U.S. casino and
conference market, have cut room prices, boosted special offers
and increased overseas marketing to attract gamblers and
vacationers. Wynn Las Vegas’s average daily rate fell 9.6
percent in the second quarter to $197, filling 92.6 percent of
rooms, compared with 86.6 percent a year ago.  
 The company is seeing “some modest improvement” in Vegas
room rates as it increases convention and group bookings to as
much as 18 percent of its available nights, from an average of
12.5 percent last year, Wynn Las Vegas President  Andrew Pascal 
said on today’s call. Renovating the resort’s 2,716 rooms and
suites will temporarily reduce supply, helping rates, he said.  
 “We’re a little bit encouraged and we hope that we’ll
continue to see some modest improvement for the balance of the
year,” Pascal said.  
 Wynn Resorts shares slipped 2 cents to $87.85 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock has climbed
51 percent this year. Shareholders will be paid a quarterly
dividend of 25 cents, the company said today.  
 Wynn last week announced preliminary Las Vegas results for
the quarter when the company replaced bonds due in 2014 with
notes due in 2020.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 30 (Bloomberg) -- Larry Haverty, a portfolio manager at Gamco Investors Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for Wynn Resorts Ltd. and Las Vegas Sands Corp., and his investment strategy. 
     Wynn Resorts, owner of the Wynn and Encore casino resorts in Las Vegas and Macau, reported second-quarter profit doubled after the opening of its second property in the only part of China where casinos are legal. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Aaron Fischer, an analyst at CLSA Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for Hong Kong's casino stocks.
     Macau casino gambling revenue may rise 72 percent this month from a year earlier as gamblers who wagered on the World Cup soccer tournament return to betting on card games in the Chinese city, according to CLSA. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
