-- Hyundai Profit Jumps 71% to Record, Beating Estimates on Overseas Demand
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-29T06:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-29/hyundai-profit-jumps-71-to-record-as-new-models-lure-u-s-china-drivers.html

          
          
             Hyundai Motor Co. , South Korea’s
 largest automaker , said it expects to beat its annual revenue
forecast after posting record profit on brisk overseas sales
that offset sluggish domestic demand.  
 The automaker will probably sell more than its initial
plan of 3.46 million vehicles as new models including
revamped Sonata lure buyers, Chief Financial Officer Lee Won
Hee told reporters today, without disclosing a new sales goal.  
 Net income jumped 71 percent to 1.39 trillion won ($1.2
billion) in the three months ended June 30, from 811.9
billion won a year earlier, the Seoul-based carmaker said in
a regulatory filing today. That compares with the 1.13
trillion won average of 31 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 18 percent to 9.56 trillion won.  
 Chairman  Chung Mong Koo  raised second-quarter global
retail sales 13 percent, led by a 33 percent surge in U.S.
deliveries, after Hyundai began selling revamped Sonata
sedans this year. Plans to introduce new Elantra compacts and
Azera premium sedans may ease slumping domestic sales, which
plunged 35 percent in June, and offset  slower growth in China 
and Europe as governments reduce sales incentives.  
 “Global auto demand will likely slow in the second half
as government incentives are removed and there are some
macroeconomic uncertainties,” Lee told reporters in Seoul
today. “Still, we expect our sales to grow from the first
half helped by firm sales in the U.S. and emerging markets.”  
 Operating Profit  
 Operating profit , or sales minus the cost of goods and
administrative expenses, rose 31 percent to 863.3 billion won
from 657.2 billion won, Hyundai said.  
 Hyundai declined 0.7 percent to close at 144,000 won in
Seoul trading, compared with the key Kospi index’s 0.2
percent drop. The shares have gained 19 percent this year.  
 “Brisk overseas sales more than compensated for the
weak home market,”  Kim Do Joon , a fund manager at Hanwha
Investment Trust Management Co. in Seoul, which manages $8.8
billion worth of assets including Hyundai stock, said before
the earnings announcement. “Hyundai’s shares may not
outperform the broader Korean market, but its long-term
structural growth will continue.”  
 Second Quarter Sales  
 Hyundai delivered 916,507 vehicles to global customers
in the second quarter, 13 percent more than a year earlier,
according to company data.  Sales in the U.S.  jumped 33
percent, led by Sonata sedans and Tucson sport-utility
vehicles introduced early this year. Sales in China and India
gained 17 percent each.  
 Deliveries in South Korea, Hyundai’s most profitable
market, fell 18 percent during the quarter after the
government cut incentives and as affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. 
and other rivals won market share.  
 The carmaker sold 144,273 Sonata sedans, Tucson SUVs and
other models in the April-June period in the U.S., compared
with 108,832 units a year earlier, even as it reduced
incentive spending per vehicle 46 percent from a year ago to
an average of $1,760,  Ahn Sang Joon  at Tong Yang Securities
said.  
 Profit contributions from affiliates including Kia, 34
percent owned by Hyundai and other overseas factories nearly
fivefold to 1.3 trillion won in the first half from 271
billion a year earlier, the company said in today’s statement.
It didn’t provide breakdown for second quarter.  
 “It’s not a surprise that Hyundai raised its sales
goal,” after first half sales that were more than halfway to
the full-year target, said Sokje Lee, an analyst at Mirae
Asset Securities Co. in Seoul. “New models are lifting sales
in every market and the growth should continue.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        