-- China Stocks Will Rise 30% in 2007, ABN Amro Predicts
-- Zhang Shidong
-- 2006-11-09T07:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-09/china-stocks-will-rise-30-in-2007-abn-amro-predicts-update1-.html

          
          
             China's stock market will rally as
much as 30 percent next year as surging exports boost profits
and a strengthening  yuan  encourages overseas speculative capital
to buy properties, according to ABN Amro Teda Fund Management Co.  
 Machinery makers, banks and property developers are likely
to lead gains, Liu Qingshan, chief investment officer at the
Beijing-based firm, said yesterday at a conference in Shanghai.
He didn't name specific stocks.  
 ``The market gain may range between 20 percent and 30
percent next year,'' said Liu. ``The themes of rising exports
and the yuan revaluation will continue to prop up the market.''  
 Both the Shanghai Composite Index and the Shenzhen
Composite Index have jumped 63 percent this year, making them
the best-performing benchmarks in the Asia-Pacific region. The
measures are at the highest they've been in more than five years.  
 The Shanghai Composite, which tracks yuan-denominated A
shares and foreign-currency B shares, rose 29.67, or 1.6 percent,
to 1896.48 at the 3 p.m. close today. The Shenzhen Composite,
which tracks the smaller of China's two stock exchanges, gained
5.39, or 1.2 percent, to 455.04.  
 Beijing-based  ABN Amro  Teda is a venture between ABN Amro
Holding NV, the largest Dutch bank, and Tianjin Teda Investment
Holding Co., an investment arm of the Tianjin government. The
company manages six funds with about 9 billion yuan ($1.1
billion) of assets.  
 Machinery Play  
 Machinery manufacturers will sustain their earnings growth
next year as overseas sales increase and economic expansion at
home spurs local demand, Liu said.  
 ``The valuation of machinery stocks isn't high and they
will face a revaluation,'' he said. ``China's machinery makers
have the edge over technology and costs'' against foreign rivals.  
 Exports are expected to account for as much as 50 percent
of total sales of China's machinery industry over the next five
years, up from 20 percent, according to Orient Securities Co.,
the country's eighth-largest brokerage in terms of assets.
 China 's trade surplus surged to a record $23.8 billion last
month, according to the customs bureau.  
 Some machinery manufacturers have already jumped this year
on improved earnings. Yuan-denominated shares of Shanghai
Zhenhua Port Machinery Co., the world's biggest maker of
container cranes, have more than doubled this year. Net income
for the three months through Sept. 30 rose 34 percent from a
year ago. Sales will jump 50 percent this year, said President
Guan Tongxian at a conference last month.  
 Faster Growth  
 Shares of Changsha Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science &
Technology Development Co., a manufacturer of construction
machinery, have advanced 107 percent this year. Third-quarter
profit climbed 66 percent, the company said last month.  
 China's economy , which overtook the U.K. as the world's
fourth largest last year, expanded by 10.4 percent in the third
quarter after growing 11.3 percent in the previous three months.  
 Expectations of a stronger Chinese yuan will continue to
lure speculative money and push up domestic property prices,
benefiting listed real-estate developers, Liu said. Government
measures to rein in property prices that have more than doubled
since 2000 don't seem to be working, he said.  
 ``No matter how the government cracks down on the  property
market , the upside trend cannot be reversed amid the backdrop of
the yuan's revaluation,'' said Liu.  
 Banking Stocks  
 China Vanke Co., the nation's biggest property developer,
last month said profit in the three months to September more
than doubled on a 20 percent rise in property prices in the
southern city of Shenzhen during the quarter. Shares of Vanke
have doubled this year. Poly Real Estate Group Co., China's
largest state-owned developer, said last month third-quarter
profit rose more than fivefold as housing sales increased. The
stock has surged 128 percent since its debut in July.  
 Banking stocks are also among Liu's investment options as
lenders are expected to run more diversified financial
businesses, such as setting up asset management units. ``That
will act as a catalyst for lenders,'' he said.  
 Liu said he will also allocate some of his funds to
consumer, steelmaking and power stocks next year.  
 ABN Amro Teda is marketing an equity fund that will
allocate as much as 95 percent of its assets to stocks. The
company plans to raise as much as 5 billion yuan from the new
fund, Chief Executive Walter Lin said in an interview on Nov. 2.  
 The mainland fund industry was worth 511.4 billion yuan on
June 30, an increase of 9 percent from the end of last year,
according to China Galaxy Securities Co., the country's second-
largest brokerage by assets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        