-- FirstRand Says Law May Pare Fees by 788 Million Rand
-- Vernon Wessels
-- 2006-11-09T16:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-09/firstrand-says-law-may-pare-fees-by-788-million-rand-update4-.html

          
          
             First National Bank , the consumer
banking unit of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , said it may lose as much as 788
million rand ($107.5 million) in fees after South Africa
introduces a new credit law to protect consumers next year.  
 The National Credit Act, scheduled to come into effect
next June, will limit transaction fees, penalty charges and
interest rates that can be charged on loans and credit
agreements. The new law is aimed at preventing consumers from
being over-indebted and protecting them from reckless lending.  
 ``About 788 million rand in fees will actually be wiped
off'' on an annualized basis, Michael Jordaan, chief executive
of FNB, said in an interview after an antitrust hearing on bank
charges in  Pretoria  today.  
 FNB, the nation's No. 3 consumer bank, plans to spend
between 140 million and 230 million rand in the fiscal year
through June, 2007, implementing requirements for the National
Credit Act, adding to regulatory compliance costs that amounted
to almost a 1 billion rand last year, he said.  
 FirstRand will compensate for the loss in fees by cutting
costs, selling new products and providing small loans not
backed by assets of less than 10,000 rand, Jordaan said. The
company will compete against African Bank Investments Holding
Ltd., the No. 1 small-loans provider,  Capitec Bank Holdings
Ltd. (CPI) , and 9,700 other micro-loans companies, Jordaan said.  
 Shares Fall  
 Shares of FirstRand, South Africa's second-biggest
financial services company by market value, fell 22 cents, or
1.1 percent, to 19.58 rand. The six-member FTSE/JSE Africa
Banks Index also dropped 1.1 percent.  
 The National Credit Act for the first regulates loans
under 10,000 rand, making FirstRand ``more comfortable selling
products and services into that market,'' Sizwe Nxasana, the
chief executive of FirstRand's banking unit, said. ``It's
created an opportunity for us.''  
 FirstRand will rather keep building its own small loans
business through FNB than buy an existing company, he said.  
 ``If there is an opportunity to acquire a book from a
micro-lender, and we assessed it, and it's of the kind of
quality that we happy with, then we'd certainly do that,''
Nxasana said.  
 Public Hearings  
 South Africa 's competition regulator is holding public
hearings into bank charges after a study raised concerns about
fees and the lack of competition among the nation's biggest
lenders including Johannesburg-based  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) ,
controlled by Barclays Plc.  
 ``The credit act is introducing enormous amounts of extra
administration work and costs into the system at a time when
banks are under pressure to cut banking fees,'' said Neville
Chester, who helps manage the equivalent of $13 billion at
Coronation Fund Managers, including FirstRand, in  Cape Town .
``It's limiting their revenue opportunities.''  
 Banks plan to spend between 150 million rand and 200
million rand each on information technology systems, loans will
take longer to be approved and the scrapping of credit history
records will limit the ability of banks to provide customers
with competitive  interest rates , he said.  
 Fees and penalties charged by the nation's banks are
hitting the poor the hardest and deterring them from saving in
a nation where less than half the adult population, or about 13
million people, don't have bank accounts, Gabriel Davel, the
national credit regulator, told the inquiry on Nov. 3.  
 Scrap Fee  
 FNB is proposing that all South African banks scrap a fee
that customers are charged for using another lender's automatic
teller machine, Jordaan said.  
 A customer who uses another bank's automated teller
machine is typically charged a transaction fee and the so-called SASWITCH fee to their bank, which then pays a portion to
the bank that owns the machine. A change may cost FNB as much
as 140 million rand a year, and save customers of South African
banks more than 500 million rand a year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        