-- Vale Third-Quarter Net Profit Rises 47% on Ore Price
-- Jeb Blount
-- 2006-11-09T00:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-09/vale-third-quarter-net-profit-rises-47-on-ore-price-update1-.html

          
          
             Cia. Vale do Rio Doce, the world's
largest  iron-ore  producer, said third-quarter profit rose 47
percent to a record after it raised iron-ore prices 19 percent
from a year ago and beefed up output from its mines.  
 `Consolidated net income at the Rio de Janeiro-based
company rose to 3.97 billion reais ($1.85 billion), or 1.64 real
a share, from 2.71 billion reais, or 1.18 real, a year earlier.
Net sales rose 27 percent to 11.23 billion reais in the quarter
from 8.82 billion reais in the third quarter of 2005.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli , 47, is preparing for
talks with customers, led by Chinese steelmakers, that are
expected to begin this month. On Oct. 5 he said world ore demand
outstrips supply and that without increased revenue for mine
expansion, steelmakers face shortages. Rising costs for energy
and mine equipment are also making growth more expensive.  
 ``We believe the company will show strong profit in the
third quarter,'' said Cristiane Viana, steel and mining analyst
with Agora CTVM,  Brazil 's largest stock brokerage, in  Rio de
Janeiro . ``We believe that the company's results will
principally reflect the increase in the volume of sales of iron
ore and the impact of higher mineral prices.''  
 Viana said she expected profit of 3.57 billion reais in the
quarter and net sales of 10.35 billion reais.  
 Vale preferred shares were little changed, rising 1 centavo
to 48.49 reais in Sao Paulo trading. Vale has gained 16 percent
while the Bovespa index of the 55 most-traded stocks on the Sao
Paulo stock exchange, of which Vale is part, rose 24 percent.  
 Other Metals  
 Vale's profit also benefited from expansion and higher
prices for its other metals and minerals such as bauxite and
alumina, two of the main ingredients in aluminum, said Elaine
Rabelo, steel and mining analyst at Coinvalores CCVM, a Sao
Paulo stock brokerage.  
 ``We expect firm results from the strong prices the company
has been able to charge for iron-ore and alumina,'' Rabelo, who
expects a third quarter profit of 3.9 billion reais. ``With
aluminum-related businesses bringing in about 10 percent of
revenue and high world prices for nickel, the importance of
products other than iron-ore should increase.''  
 Vale purchased  Canada 's Inco Ltd., the world's second-
largest nickel producer on Oct. 24. When it finishes buying all
the outstanding stock of the company, the purchase is expected
to cost about $17 billion.  
 Inco results were not included in the third-quarter
results.  
 Profit growth was restrained by the stronger real, which
rose more than 7 percent gain against the dollar from a year a
year earlier, said Rabelo. The currency gain has sliced an
average of 16 million reais of revenue from each $100 million of
company exports in the last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeb Blount in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jblount@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko in  New York  at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        