-- Ceridian Wins Tennessee Trial Over Gift-Card Patent
-- Susan Decker
-- 2006-11-07T21:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-07/ceridian-wins-tennessee-trial-over-gift-card-patent-update1-.html

          
          
             A Ceridian Corp. unit didn't infringe
a  Tennessee  company's patent on gift cards sold at store
checkout stands, a federal jury said.  
 The jury in  Memphis  also found on Nov. 3 that Barry Fiala
Inc.'s patent was invalid, because it covered an obvious
variation of an earlier invention, and unenforceable because an
inventor was omitted. Barry Fiala, named after its founder, will
ask U.S. District Judge Samuel H. Mays Jr. to overturn the
verdict, company lawyer Barry Bretschneider said today.  
 ``Before he put the activated gift cards in Sam's Clubs and
Wal-Marts in late 1995 and 1996, there was no market,''
Bretschneider said in a telephone interview. ``Barry Fiala
created this market.''  
 Barry Fiala Inc. had sought at least $10 million in damages
from Stored Value Systems, part of Ceridian's Comdata unit.
Stored Value makes gift cards for companies including Target
Corp., J.C. Penney Co., Lowe's Cos. and Toys `R' Us Inc., said
the unit's lawyer, Alan Fisch of Kaye Scholer in  Washington .  
 ``Comdata is delighted with this victory,'' the unit's
president, Gary Krow, said in a statement. Minneapolis-based
Ceridian provides U.S. companies with payroll services and
reported sales of $1.46 billion last year.  
 Barry Fiala was part of Memphis packaging company Milton
Sternberger and patented a means of activating gift cards in the
1990s, said Bretschneider, of Morrison & Foerster in McLean,
Virginia. More than a dozen companies have licensed the patent,
he said.  
 Shares of Ceridian rose 19 cents to $25.14 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:01 p.m., valuing the
company at about $3.5 billion.  
 The case is Barry Fiala Inc. v. Stored Value Systems Inc.,
02cv2248, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Tennessee, Western Division.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        