-- Russia May Cancel Licenses Held by Unit of BP Venture
-- Todd Prince
-- 2006-11-07T15:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-11-07/russia-may-cancel-licenses-held-by-unit-of-bp-venture-update1-.html

          
          
             Russian Prosecutor General Yuri
Chaika's office is seeking to cancel extraction licenses held by
a unit of  BP Plc (BP/) 's local venture, the latest setback for foreign
companies in the nation's oil industry.  
 The country's top law enforcement body asked the Federal
Subsoil Agency to cancel two licenses held by ZAO Rospan
International for ``systematic violations,'' the Prosecutor
General's Office said on its Web site today. Nobody at the
Subsoil Agency could be reached for comment immediately.  
 Rospan, a subsidiary of OAO  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , currently
produces 2.5 billion cubic meters of the fuel a year and output
could rise to 15 billion cubic meters if TNK-BP can reach an
accord with the other license holders in the region, including
OAO Gazprom, TNK-BP Chief Operating Officer  Viktor Vekselberg 
said in March.  
 Russia has been urging investors in projects led by Royal
Dutch Shell Plc, Total SA, Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp.,
as well as TNK-BP, to cede some of the control given to them in
the 1990s, when  oil prices  and government revenue were low.
Russia in September threatened to annul a key permit for the
Shell-led $22 billion Sakhalin-2 project, citing environmental
and safety concerns.  
 The Prosecutor General's Office said today its request to
annul the Rospan licenses was filed ``in connection with
systematic violations of the law on resources, license
conditions, and ecological safety, including the carrying out of
works without licenses.''  
 Rospan, once controlled by OAO Yukos Oil Co., is TNK-BP's
second biggest gas project, after Kovykta in eastern Siberia.
OAO Yukos Oil  Co. sold its 56 percent stake in Rospan to TNK-BP
in 2004 to help pay off $30 billion in back taxes and fines
levied by the government.  
 TNK-BP spokesman Alexander Shadrin said he couldn't comment
on the matter immediately.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Moscow at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net 
Todd Prince at   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        