-- Colombia's Economic Growth Isn't Pressuring Inflation, Policy Makers Say
-- Helen Murphy
-- 2010-07-02T16:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-11/colombia-central-bank-says-faster-economic-growth-isn-t-pressuring-prices.html

          
          
             Colombia’s central bank said the
economy’s faster-than-expected expansion isn’t generating
inflationary pressure, according to the  minutes  of the June 18
policy meeting.  
 The seven-member board analyzed economic growth and
inflationary expectations through next year as well as the
European financial crisis before voting to keep the  benchmark
interest rate  at 3 percent.  
 “The increase in exports, fueled by the recovery in global
economic momentum and better terms of trade, confirms the build-
up in the Colombian economy, as do other factors such as the
increase in consumer and producer confidence, the increase in a
number of leading indicators, and the soundness of the financial
system,” the bank said in minutes posted on its  website  today.  
 The board, led by bank chief  Jose Dario Uribe , noted that
while annual  inflation  in May was above April’s level it was
below the forecasts of the market and the bank. Colombia’s
annual inflation rate was 2.07 percent in May, near the bottom
of the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range. The
June inflation report is scheduled to be released tomorrow.  
 South America’s fourth-biggest economy emerged from its
first  recession  in a decade in the fourth quarter. In the first
quarter of 2010, gross domestic product expanded 4.4 percent
from the same period a year earlier. The government forecasts
GDP will grow 3 percent this year.  
 European Crisis  
 The impact of the European crisis is “uncertain” and “it
is worth noting that Latin American economies show an
increasingly stronger recovery accompanied by a build-up in
their currencies,” the bank said.  
 President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos , who won the June 20
ballot, has promised annual growth of 6 percent in two years and
pledged to create 2.4 million jobs. The former defense minister
will replace  Alvaro Uribe , who stands down Aug. 7.  
 Retail sales  rose 7.9 percent in April from a year earlier,
while industrial  output  grew 7.6 percent over the same period.  
 The peso strengthened 0.6 percent to 1886.90 per dollar at
12:48 p.m. New York time from 1898.60 yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        