-- Resolution Says It's in Talks About Potential AXA Transaction
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-06-14T16:09:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-11/resolution-says-it-s-in-talks-about-axa-u-k-life-insurance-transaction.html

          
          
             Axa SA , Europe’s second-biggest
insurer, said it’s in talks to sell part of its U.K. life
insurance unit to  Clive Cowdery’s  Resolution Ltd. for 2.75
billion pounds ($4 billion).  
 Resolution, the investment firm Cowdery started two years
ago, plans to fund the purchase through a 2 billion-pound rights
offer, the company said in a statement today. Axa would receive
2.25 billion pounds in cash and provide 500 million pounds in
loans to Resolution to help finance the transaction, according
to a separate statement from the Paris-based company.  
 European insurers including Axa and  Prudential Plc  are
seeking to free up capital reserves used to back policies in
slower-growing markets like the U.K. to fund growth in Asia,
where margins are wider. Resolution paid 1.9 billion pounds for
Britain’s Friends Provident Plc last year, the first of as many
as four purchases it’s planning as it aims to merge U.K. life
insurers and sell the enlarged group back to investors by 2013.  
 “For Axa, the U.K. wasn’t the most successful and
profitable country,” said  Karim Bertoni , who helps manage $18.5
billion at Banque Syz & Co. in Geneva. “Resolution is very
committed to gain market share in the U.K., and a deal would
allow Axa to move some capital to other regions with better
profitability.”  
 Axa’s life insurance division is the eighth-biggest in the
U.K., according to data compiled by the Association of British
Insurers. Axa plans to keep its wealth management and non-life
insurance operations in the U.K.  
 Wealth Management  
 Axa’s U.K. life and savings operations posted a 33 million-
euro ($39 million) net loss in 2009, compared with a 257
million-euro profit a year earlier. Axa’s gross annual life and
savings sales in the U.K. fell 22 percent to 2.78 billion euros
as investment fees and premiums dropped.  
 Axa SA is trying to acquire Axa Asia Pacific Holdings
Ltd.’s operations in eight Asian countries, including China,
Singapore, Indonesia, and Malaysia. The insurer already owns 54
percent of the Melbourne-based company.  
 Resolution suspended trading of its shares before the
market opened today.  The stock closed  0.3 percent lower at 60.7
pence in London trading on June 11, valuing the company at 1.46
billion pounds.  Axa rose  3.7 percent to 13.6 euros in Paris
trading today, giving the company a market value of 31.1 billion
euros.  
 John Tiner  
 Resolution Chief Executive Officer John  Tiner , who served
as CEO of the  Financial Services Authority  from 2003 to 2007,
said in March he aims to make two or more purchases, adding to
the Friends Provident purchase. After creating a life insurer
worth 10 billion pounds, Tiner intends to sell it by 2013, he
said.  
 “Resolution has been under pressure to do a deal, and this
should take some of that pressure off,” said  Marcus Barnard , an
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London who has a “buy”
rating on the Resolution. “It’s a good deal, good price and
fits well with Friends Provident and seems to be a reasonable
next step for Resolution.”  
 Resolution said in a June 11 statement it plans to
consolidate the U.K. businesses of Axa, France’s biggest
insurer, with its Friends Provident operations. It’s seeking to
reach an agreement on the purchase by the end of this month.  
 Labor union Unite said today it was concerned that
Resolution will cut jobs at the combined company.  
 “Our concern at this time centers on the implications of
the possible sale of this business for the job security, terms
and conditions and pensions of the AXA workforce,” National
Officer Siobhan Endean said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Insurance Sales Rise  
 Resolution posted net income of 1.16 billion pounds in
2009, compared with a 1 million-pound loss in 2008. First-
quarter insurance sales rose 19 percent to 178 million pounds,
as interest rates at record lows pushed British savers to seek
higher returns in pension and savings products rather than hold
their assets in cash.  
 Standard Life Plc , St James’s Place Plc and Legal & General
Group Plc, which also sell life insurance in the U.K., all
posted higher-than-expected sales in the first quarter.  
 Axa was advised by Credit Suisse Group AG. Citigroup Inc.
is working with Resolution. Barclays Capital and RBC Capital
Markets are advising on the right offering.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net 
 Jon Menon  in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Axa SA company logo sits outside the offices of Axa U.K. in London. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 14 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Stovin-Bradford of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the prospects of Axa SA selling part of its U.K. life insurance unit to Clive Cowdery's Resolution Ltd. for 2.75 billion pounds ($4 billion). (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A pedestrian passes the headquarters of Axa U.K. in London. Photographer: Jason Alden/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The bid is part of founder Clive Cowdery to increase Resolution's U.K. life insurance holdings over 18 months. Source: Resolution via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
