-- Agility Net Income Drops 66% as U.S. Government Contracts End Amid Lawsuit
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-11-13T10:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/agility-net-income-drops-66-as-u-s-government-contracts-end-amid-lawsuit.html
Agility Public Warehousing Co. 
reported a 66 percent drop in third-quarter profit as the
Kuwait-based logistics company faces charges in the U.S. of
overbilling on supplies to American troops.  Net income  fell to 13.89 million dinars ($49.5 million)
from 40.6 million dinars, the company said in an e-mailed
statement today. Revenue declined to 405.9 million dinars in the
third quarter, from 413.6 million dinars a year earlier, Agility
said.  Agility, the Middle East’s largest storage and logistics
company, was first indicted in November 2009 for allegedly
overcharging the U.S. government on a multibillion dollar
contract to supply food for troops in Kuwait and Iraq. The
company had said it’s in talks to resolve legal issues with the
U.S. Department of Justice and there’s no guarantee a settlement
will be reached.  “This expected decrease in profitability and revenue is
attributable to the challenges facing Agility’s Defense and
Government Services (DGS) business,” the company said in
today’s statement. “Major U.S. government contracts wind down
and the company is unable to replace them with new government
business due to the legal case with the U.S. government.”  The company said on Oct. 11 that a U.S. magistrate
recommended the dismissal of an indictment against one of its
units in connection with the supply contract.  ‘Transition’  Agility wasn’t properly notified by prosecutors of the
criminal charges against it, U.S. Magistrate  Alan Baverman  said
in a report dated Sept. 2. Baverman is taking a motion to
dismiss the case under advisement, according to a synopsis of
the proceedings in court on Sept. 3 posted on the court docket.  “2010 has been a year of transition for Agility,”
Chairman  Tarek Sultan  said in today’s statement. “Although we
anticipate continued challenges through the middle of 2011, we
believe that we will emerge as a stronger and more flexible
company.”  Agility shares  fell 3.8 percent to 510 fils at the close of
trading in Kuwait City on Nov. 11. The stock lost 11 percent
this year compared with a 0.8 percent decline in the benchmark
 Kuwait Stock Exchange Index . There are 1,000 fils to the dinar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  