-- Ameris Buys Two Banks, Third Closed as U.S. Failures This Year Reach 146
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-11-13T01:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/ameris-buys-two-banks-third-closed-as-u-s-failures-this-year-reach-146.html
Ameris Bancorp  purchased two
shuttered Georgia banks and regulators closed a third in Arizona
as the 2010 failure toll climbed to 146.  Ameris, based in Moultrie, Georgia, added almost $730
million in deposits, according to  statements  on the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. website. The three lenders closed today
had combined assets of $1 billion. The seizures cost the
agency’s deposit-insurance fund $204.4 million.  “It is exciting to gain new locations in and near
established offices that will further complement our existing
presence in these markets,” Ameris’s chief executive officer,
 Edwin W. Hortman  Jr., said in a separate statement. “Customers
can be confident that their deposits are safe and readily
accessible.”  Bank failures are mounting at the fastest pace since 1992,
surpassing last year’s total of 140. The FDIC’s tally of
“problem” banks climbed to 829 lenders with $403 billion in
assets at the end of the second quarter, a 7 percent increase
from the 775 on the list in the first quarter.  Ameris  added eight branches by acquiring the operations of
Darby Bank & Trust Co., of Vidalia, and Tifton Banking Co., of
Tifton, according to the FDIC. The lender, formed in 1971,
picked up $521 million in loans, according to the company’s
statement. The two failed Georgia banks were not associated with
one another, the FDIC said.  Ameris has purchased four banks this year. In October, the
lender acquired First Bank of Jacksonville, in Florida, and in
May, Ameris bought Satilla Community Bank of Saint Marys,
Georgia. Ameris had about $2.4 billion in assets at the end of
September.  Copper Star  The third failed bank, Copper Star Bank of Scottsdale,
Arizona, was purchased by St. Cloud, Minnesota-based Stearns
Bank, the FDIC said. Stearns paid a 1 percent premium to acquire
$190.2 million in deposits, and added three branches.  The FDIC this week began to overhaul the assessment process
for its deposit insurance fund in response to the Dodd-Frank
legislation. On Nov. 9, the FDIC board approved a proposal that
would base the fees on banks’ liabilities rather than their
domestic deposits. The plan would increase assessments on banks
with more than $10 billion in assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  