-- Harbinger Investigated by SEC, U.S. Attorney Over Loan to Founder Falcone
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/harbinger-investigated-by-sec-u-s-attorney-over-loan-to-founder-falcone.html
Harbinger Capital Partners is being
investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
U.S. Attorney’s office over a $113 million loan to founder
 Philip Falcone  and possible preferential treatment of some
investors, according to two people with knowledge of the probe.  Falcone, 48, took the loan from the Harbinger Capital
Partners Special Situations Fund in October 2009 to pay personal
taxes, Bloomberg Markets Magazine reported in September. At the
time, investors were barred from exiting the fund because it had
assets tied up in the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. The New York-based firm disclosed the loan in the fund’s
March 12, 2010, financial statements.  “The loan has been a topic of discussion since it was
disclosed in March,” Falcone said yesterday in an e-mail. “It
was documented and audited by outside accountants and legal
advisers and was done in accordance with our documents. As for
the preferential treatment for certain clients, that is
completely and utterly untrue.”  He declined to comment on whether the SEC and the U.S.
Attorney in Manhattan were investigating the firm. The probes
were reported yesterday by the Wall Street Journal.  The firm’s main Harbinger Capital Partners Fund tumbled 15
percent through Oct. 15, according to investors who asked not to
be named because the information is private. As of September,
about 90 percent of the fund’s $3.4 billion in net assets was
tied up in wireless-telecommunications investments.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. plans to pull $120 million from
the fund, people familiar with the firm’s decision said earlier
this week. Investors in Harbinger’s core fund are limited to
taking out 25 percent of their redemption request per quarter,
so that a full withdrawal is spread out over a year. Goldman
will get back $30 million in January, and receive its final $30
million payment in January 2012.  At the end of 2008, Goldman had $1 billion invested in two
Harbinger funds, according to the people, who asked not to be
identified because the funds are private.  Another investor in Harbinger’s core fund, the New York
State Common Retirement Fund, has asked to redeem $41 million.
 Dennis Tompkins , a spokesman for the state pension system,
declined to comment on the reason the pension fund is
withdrawing the money.  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in Washington,
declined to comment. A call to the U.S. Attorney’s office after
regular business hours wasn’t returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katherine Burton  in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 