-- Asian Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Drop Since August on China Rate Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2010-11-13T01:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/asian-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-drop-since-august-on-china-rate-concerns.html
Asian stocks  fell this week,
dragging down the benchmark index by most since August, on
speculation China will raise interest rates after inflation
accelerated to its fastest pace in two years.  China Vanke Co. , the country’s biggest developer by market
value, tumbled 12 percent in Shanghai.  China Construction Bank
Corp. , the nation’s second-biggest lender, declined 7 percent in
Hong Kong after the central bank ordered lenders to raise their
reserve ratios. Russia’s  United Co. Rusal , the world’s largest
aluminum producer, slipped 3.9 percent in Hong Kong after
reporting profit declined.  “There is no doubt that China is on its way to further
tightening,” said  Danny Yan , a Hong Kong-based fund manager at
Taifook Asset Management, which oversees about $400 million.
“Food inflation in China is getting out of control. The whole
world is flooded with capital that has nowhere to go. Capital
inflows are a serious problem facing China. To tackle the
problem, tightening liquidity control seems unavoidable.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  declined 2 percent to 132.13
this week, the biggest drop since the five days ended Aug. 13.  The measure rose about 12 percent in 2010 as of last week
on speculation corporate profits will weather Europe’s debt
crisis, China’s steps to curb property price gains and concern
about the pace of U.S. economic growth. Shares in the gauge
trade at an average of about 14.5 times estimated earnings,
close to the highest level since June.  Inflationary Pressures  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  declined 5.9 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index slipped 2.6 percent, South Korea’s Kospi
Index fell 1.3 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped
2.3 percent. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 1 percent.  The People’s Bank of China may raise interest rates within
weeks after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 2 years
in October, a Bloomberg News survey of economists yesterday
showed. The central bank ordered lenders on Nov. 10 to increase
the amount of money they set aside as reserves effective Nov. 16.  China Vanke, the country’s biggest developer by market
value, tumbled 12 percent to 8.53 yuan in Shanghai. Poly Real
Estate Group Co., the No. 2 developer, plunged 13 percent to 7.3
yuan.  A record expansion in lending has added to concern that
China’s inflation, now centered on food costs, will broaden. In
October, new lending was a more-than-forecast 587.7 billion yuan
($89 billion), a central bank report on Nov. 11 showed.  Gauges of financial companies and raw material suppliers
posted the  biggest declines  this week among the 10 industry
groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Lenders Drop  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , Australia’s
third-largest lender by market value, slid 3.6 percent to
A$23.22, and  National Australia Bank Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
lender to companies, fell 5.5 percent to A$24.53. The Wall
Street Journal reported yesterday that the Group of 20 ministers
may not exempt the banks from stricter capital requirements as
speculated earlier in the week.  “There is speculation more stringent capital requirements
may be imposed on Asian banks,” said  Daphne Roth , head of Asian
equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking, which oversees
about $14 billion in the region.  China Construction Bank tumbled 7 percent to HK$7.43 in
Hong Kong, Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s third-largest by
market value, slid 6 percent to HK$4.56. Smaller  Bank of
Communications Co.  fell 6 percent to HK$8.59.  Rusal, Genting  Concern China may take additional steps to curb inflation
also dragged down shares of raw material suppliers.  Jiangxi
Copper Co. , China’s biggest producer of the metal, declined 8.8
percent to 41.32 yuan in Shanghai. Aluminum Corp of China Ltd.
slipped 4.9 percent to HK$7.46 in Hong Kong.  Rusal fell 3.9 percent to HK$9.78. The company posted a 55
percent drop in third-quarter profit from a year earlier, to $29
million, as the value of embedded derivatives fell.  Genting Singapore Plc , operator of one of two casinos in
the city-state, declined 6.2 percent to S$2.13 after the company
posted third-quarter earnings that missed analyst estimates,
prompting JPMorgan Chase & Co. to lower its recommendation to
“neutral” from “overweight.”  The earnings “slightly disappointed,” JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst  Kenneth Fong  wrote in a note to clients yesterday.
Genting’s third-quarter earnings before interest, tax
depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, were S$347 million
($267 million), lower than the consensus estimate of S$375
million, he said.  Wilmar International Ltd., the world’s biggest palm-oil
trader, declined 5.1 percent to S$6.35 in Singapore after saying
on Nov. 10 that third-quarter profit fell 60 percent.  Trend Micro Inc. , the world’s third-biggest maker of
security software, lost 1.8 percent to 2,428 yen after
forecasting full-year net income will fall 26 percent to 13
billion yen. The company also booked a 32 percent drop to 9.55
billion yen net income for the April-September period.  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .
 Hanny Wan  in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 