-- Australian PM Gillard Raises BHP's Potash Bid With Harper at G-20 Meeting
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2010-11-13T02:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/australia-s-gillard-raises-bhp-s-potash-bid-with-harper-at-g-20.html
Canada’s decision to block  BHP
Billiton Ltd. ’s acquisition of  Potash Corp . of Saskatchewan Inc.
was discussed at a meeting this week between Australian Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  and Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , a spokesman for the Australian government said.  Gillard raised the issue with Harper during this week’s
Group of 20 summit in Seoul, because the two countries have a
long history of investment, the spokesman said on condition he
not be identified because the meeting was private. He declined
to give further details.  Harper’s government on Nov. 3 rejected Melbourne-based
BHP’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan, saying
the proposal doesn’t provide a “net benefit” to Canada. Under
Canadian law, BHP has 30 days from the date of the ruling to
appeal.  Harper said Nov. 4 the decision “is clearly in the best
interests of the Canadian economy,” and that it was “a rare
case where even a large number, if not most, of the people in
favor of foreign investment opposed this decision.”  Industry Minister Tony Clement, who made the decision, said
the government’s ruling was “principled” and based on Canadian
law, rather than a “political” one.  Dimitri Soudas , Harper’s director of communications, said
in an e-mail to Bloomberg today the industry minister “has made
the Canadian government’s position clear.” Soudas said he was
unaware whether Harper and Gillard had discussed Potash in Seoul.  The Canadian government has declined to give reasons for
its rejection, saying it has to wait until a 30-day appeal
process is completed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Seoul at  targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at   billaustin@bloomberg.net  