-- Australians Will Judge Interest Rate-Rising Banks Harshly, Gillard Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2010-11-13T02:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/australians-will-judge-interest-rate-rising-banks-harshly-gillard-says.html
Australians will harshly judge the
nation’s  four largest banks  after they raised mortgage interest
rates by more than the central bank increased borrowing costs,
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said.  “There is absolutely no justification” for the scale of
the rate increases, Gillard told reporters yesterday in Seoul,
where she attended a G-20 summit, according to a transcript of
the press conference e-mailed today. “People who bank with
those banks will judge them very harshly for it.”  Westpac Banking Corp.  and  National Australia Bank Ltd. 
yesterday announced increases to their standard variable home-
loan rates, following  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. 
and Commonwealth Bank of Australia. All surpassed the Nov. 2
quarter-percentage point move by the Reserve Bank of Australia.  Mortgage rates are a topic of public debate in Australia,
where more than 90 percent of homeowners have  variable-rate home
loans . Interest-rate gains that outpace those of the central
bank have triggered a backlash against Australia’s largest
lenders after they reported higher profits.  Australia’s four biggest lenders avoided state bailouts and
swallowed smaller rivals during the global financial crisis.
Commonwealth Bank,  Westpac,  National Australia and ANZ Bank
account for about 87 percent of the  home lending market ,
according to the  Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.   Gillard said the government was working on changes to the
banking industry that would allow consumers to more easily leave
their bank and find a better deal with smaller lenders.  “We are determined to increase competition in the banking
sector,” Gillard said yesterday. “The message to banking
customers is, I can understand that you’re not happy with the
conduct of the banks, and we will be facilitating your ability
to go out and get a better deal.”  The Australian leader said she intends to meet President
Barack Obama today and discuss the U.S. participation in the
Asia-Pacific region and the countries’ strategy in the
Afghanistan war.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 Jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  