-- Lawmakers Drop Opposition to $100 Million U.S. Military Aid for Lebanon
-- B y   T r a c i   M c M i l l a n
-- 2010-11-13T17:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/lawmakers-drop-opposition-to-100-million-u-s-military-aid-for-lebanon.html
Two U.S. House Democrats dropped
their opposition to $100 million in new military aid to Lebanon
three months after they stalled the package over concern it
could help the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement.  Representatives  Howard Berman  of California, chairman of
the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and  Nita Lowey  of New York
said they were reassured by an investigation into the Lebanese
army’s relationship with Hezbollah, which is classified as a
terrorist group by the U.S. The lawmakers also had voiced
concern over a southern Lebanon shoot-out between Lebanese and
Israeli troops on Aug. 3 that killed four people.  The Obama administration produced classified material from
an inter-agency review that determined Hezbollah wouldn’t
benefit from the aid, Berman said in a statement.  “I am convinced that implementation of the spending plan
will now have a greater focus, and I am reassured as to the
nature and purposes of the proposed package,” Berman said.  “Improving Lebanon’s ability to defend its borders, stop
arms trafficking, build institutions and fight terrorist
elements is imperative to the security and stability of the
region,” Matthew Dennis, a spokesman for Lowey, said in an e-
mail.  The Associated Press reported yesterday that the
congressional holds had been lifted.  U.S. officials said the $100 million in aid would continue
to support Lebanon’s army and assist the government in
controlling the country.  The aid still may face hurdles in the Republican-controlled
House that takes office in January.  “Unanswered questions remain concerning the long-term
impact and long-term strategy of U.S. assistance” to Lebanon’s
military, said Representative  Ileana Ros-Lehtinen , a Florida
Republican who is in line to become chairman of the House
Foreign Relations Committee. “There also appears to be a
disconnect” between parts of the aid plan aimed at fighting
terrorism and helping a government “increasingly influenced by
Hezbollah,” she said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Traci McMillan  in Washington at 
 tmcmillan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  