-- China Assails Monetary Easing, Citing `Imported Inflation,' Bubble Risks
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-11-13T09:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/china-assails-monetary-easing-citing-imported-inflation-bubble-risks.html
China renewed an attack on
quantitative easing, citing the risk of increased prices in
emerging economies, a day after the Group of 20 nations said the
markets can adopt regulatory steps to cope.  China “doesn’t support” the monetary easing that causes
“imported” inflation in developing countries, Commerce
Minister  Chen Deming  told a forum today in Macau, a Chinese
special autonomous region. The capital inflows increase the risk
of “asset bubbles,” Jin Zhongxia, deputy director general of
the international department at the People’s Bank of China, said
at the same forum.  The Group of 20 offered emerging economies cover to limit
currency swings and stem asset bubbles. The U.S. Federal Reserve
fueled concern in emerging economies last week when it announced
plans to buy $600 billion of long-term government bonds to
reduce borrowing costs and spur growth in a second round of so-
called quantitative easing.  “Major reserve-currency issuing countries excessively
print money to get out of their own economic difficulties,
posing a policy dilemma for emerging economies,” Jin said in
Macau today, without naming any countries. “That will impose
greater pressure on capital inflows, bigger bubbles in asset
markets and inflationary pressure.”  Capital flows into emerging markets are running at $575
billion a year, 20 percent higher than before the world
financial crisis, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in September.
The U.S. dollar has weakened over the past three months against
all 16 major market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Investment Restrictions  Countries from Brazil and Indonesia to South Korea imposed
restrictions on investment inflows aimed at defusing the danger
of hot money, or capital seeking short-term gains. The G-20
called on international regulators to compile a report on best
practices on financial-security policies, including capital-flow
tools.  Steps to impose restrictions on capital have increased as
emerging-market currencies strengthened, with Brazil’s real
climbing 21 percent against the dollar in the past 18 months,
Chile’s peso up 18 percent, Thailand’s baht rising 16 percent
and South Korea’s won appreciating 10 percent.  “In circumstances where countries are facing undue burden
of adjustment, policy responses in emerging-market economies
with adequate reserves and increasingly overvalued flexible
exchange rates may also include carefully designed macro-
prudential measures,” leaders of the G-20 nations said in a
statement today following a two-day meeting in Seoul.  China plans to boost cross-border yuan-denominated trade
with other countries 10-fold to 20 percent of total trade, or
more than 2.5 trillion yuan, to reduce reliance on a few reserve
currencies, Jin said, without specifying a target date.  Hu’s Pledge  At the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Yokohama,
Japan, China’s President  Hu Jintao  today pledged in a speech to
business executives a “steady” reform of its exchange rate
policy, a day after U.S. President  Barack Obama  criticized it
for keeping the yuan “undervalued.” China also “aims to
balance the trade gap by boosting domestic demand,” including
by increasing regional development, he said.  Hu’s remarks come as a spat between China and the U.S. over
which country is doing more damage to global trade intensifies.
U.S. officials have complained about the weak yuan giving China
an unfair trade advantage, while Chinese policy makers say the
Federal Reserve’s monetary easing poses risks for financial
stability.  “In the next five years, we would be more open,” Commerce
Minister Chen said in Macau. “We will stabilize existing
exports, actively boost imports, so our trade balance account
would be kept at a basically balanced, reasonable level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  