-- China Pledges `Steady' Currency Reform After Obama's Criticism at G-20
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2010-11-13T05:29:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/china-pledges-steady-currency-reform-after-obama-s-criticism-at-g-20.html
China pledged a “steady” reform of
its exchange rate policy a day after U.S. President  Barack Obama 
criticized it for keeping the yuan “undervalued.”  “China will continue to improve its currency reform at a
steady pace,”  Hu Jintao , the country’s president, said today in
a speech to business executives at the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation forum in Yokohama, Japan. China also “aims to
balance the trade gap by boosting domestic demand,” including
by increasing regional development, he said.  Hu’s remarks come as a spat between China and the U.S. over
which country is doing more damage to global trade intensifies.
U.S. officials have complained about the weak yuan giving China
an unfair trade advantage, while Chinese policy makers say the
Federal Reserve’s monetary easing poses risks for financial
stability.  International policy makers are struggling to bring down
too-large current account surpluses and deficits among major
economies that could fuel protectionism. G-20 leaders at a
summit in Seoul yesterday failed to agree on a remedy for trade
and investment distortions.  Obama said yesterday in Seoul that “China spends enormous
amounts of money intervening in the market to keep it
undervalued.”  Trade Surplus  China has $2.65 trillion of foreign currency reserves, more
than double any other country. It ran up a $201 billion  trade
surplus  with the U.S. in the first nine months of this year,
more than the U.S. deficit with the next seven-largest trading
partners combined, according to Commerce Department data.  The yuan declined 0.2 percent to 6.6370 per dollar as of
5:30 p.m. yesterday in Shanghai, even after the People’s Bank of
China set the reference rate at 6.6239, the strongest level
since a peg ended in July 2005, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency has climbed 0.3 percent in
the past five days, the second weekly gain.  Finance ministers from the G-20 will work next year on a
set of “indicative guidelines” designed to identify large
economic imbalances and the actions needed to fix them,
according to a joint statement released at the Seoul summit. The
indicators will be selected with the help of the International
Monetary Fund and developed next year when France holds the G-20
presidency, the statement said.  “Uneven growth and widening imbalances are fueling the
temptation to diverge from global solutions into uncoordinated
actions,” the statement said. “Uncoordinated policy actions
will only lead to worse outcomes for all.”  Hu said in his speech today that the world community should
fight against trade protectionism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  