-- Comcast Said Close to Naming NBC Team, Showtime’s Greenblatt
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-11-13T02:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/comcast-said-to-be-close-to-naming-nbc-team-showtime-s-greenblatt-at-nbc.html
Comcast Corp. , which is acquiring 51
percent of NBC Universal, plans to announce a new management
team for the entertainment company as soon as next week, two
people with knowledge of the moves said.  Robert Greenblatt , Showtime’s former programming chief,
will oversee NBC entertainment, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the decisions aren’t public.  Jeff Gaspin ,
current chairman of entertainment, has been offered a lesser
role and hasn’t decided whether to stay, they said.  Comcast Chief Operating Officer  Stephen Burke , who will
become NBC Universal’s chief executive officer, is putting his
imprint on the entertainment company as the new owner prepares
to take over from  General Electric Co.  In September, he told NBC
Universal CEO  Jeff Zucker  he would be out of a job when deal
with Philadelphia-based Comcast is completed.  Comcast, the largest U.S. cable company, plans to combine
its pay-TV channels with NBC, which also owns broadcast
networks, a movie studio and theme parks. The company’s purchase
of NBC is awaiting regulatory approval.  Bonnie Hammer , president of cable entertainment and
production at NBC Universal, will retain oversight of networks
including USA and SyFy, and add Comcast’s E! Entertainment, the
people said.  Lauren Zalaznick  will remain head of NBC’s women-
focused Bravo and Oxygen networks, gain NBC’s Spanish-language
Telemundo and add Comcast’s Style network, they said.  Rebecca Marks , a spokeswoman for NBC Universal, declined to
comment.  D’Arcy Rudnay , a spokeswoman for Comcast, declined to
comment.  At CBS Corp.’s Showtime, Greenblatt developed shows
including “Weeds” and “Dexter.” He left the premium-cable
network, a competitor to HBO, in July.  Among those also expected to stay are  Dick Ebersol , NBC’s
longtime sports chairman; NBC News President  Steve Capus , CNBC
President  Mark Hoffman  and  Ron Meyer , president of the
Universal’s theme parks and movie studio, the people said.  The changes were reported earlier, including at theWrap.com
and the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 Rgorver5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  