-- Medvedev Proposes Better Economic Ties to Ease Japan Territorial Dispute
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-13T11:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/medvedev-proposes-better-economic-ties-to-ease-japan-territorial-dispute.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
proposed boosting economic ties in a meeting with Japan’s Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  as a way to ease tensions over a territorial
dispute.  The two men met at Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit
in Yokohama, Japan, and pledged to improve ties hurt by
Medvedev’s Nov. 1 visit to one of four islands claimed by both
countries. The trip reignited a decades-old dispute and Kan
temporarily recalled his ambassador back from Moscow.  Medvedev told Kan that “it’s best to do without emotional
statements and diplomatic gestures as they don’t help the case
at all,” Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said at a
briefing in Yokohama. “The more economic interaction we have,
the more we will have a foundation to build relations in the
future. The task of the leaders is to encourage that.”  Kan replied by saying that economic cooperation is the
“first priority” of improving Japan-Russia ties, Japanese
government spokesman  Tetsuro Fukuyama  told reporters. Medvedev
invited Kan to Russia sometime next year and Kan said he would
consider it.  At the same time, Medvedev told Kan that the islands, known
as the Southern Kurils in Russia and the Northern Territories in
Japan, are “our territory,” Lavrov said. Fukuyama said that
Kan protested Medvedev’s visit and reiterated Japan’s claim.  Sovereignty Dispute  The Soviet Union seized the islands six miles (10
kilometers) from Japan’s Hokkaido Island at the end of World War
II, and the sovereignty dispute has prevented Russia and Japan
from signing a formal peace treaty. About 10,300 people live on
the disputed islands.  Kan began the meeting with Medvedev by saying he hoped to
foster “substantial dialogue on the basis of mutual trust,”
according to a pool report.  “I also hope that in the course of today’s meeting and
other contacts we will lay the foundation for the strengthening
of a dialogue between our two countries,” Medvedev said.  His remarks today reflect Russia’s new foreign policy
doctrine to emphasize business ties with other countries.  Lavrov earlier met with and Japanese Foreign Minister  Seiji Maehara  and agreed to improve ties between their countries.
Lavrov invited Maehara to visit Moscow next year.  Falling Ties  Trade between Japan and Russia fell 50 percent last year to
$14.5 billion, according to Russian Economy Ministry data.  Russian billionaire  Oleg Deripaska  today said Japanese
companies are seeking long-term contracts with his  United Co.
Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum producer, starting next year.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. ,  Sojitz Corp. , both of
Japan, and China National Chemical Engineering Corp. this week
won an order worth more than $1 billion to build at fertilizer
plant in Tatarstan, Russia.  “I think in today’s world that not only does Japan need
Russia, Japan is also important for us as a source of
technologies and a source of demand for our goods,” Deripaska
told reporters in Yokohama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Yokohama at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Harrington at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net  