-- Emanuel Joins Winnowed Field to Replace Daley as Chicago Mayor
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-11-13T17:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/emanuel-joins-winnowed-field-to-replace-daley-as-chicago-mayor.html
Rahm Emanuel , the former White House
chief of staff to President  Barack Obama , formally announced his
plans to replace Chicago Mayor  Richard M. Daley  amid a narrowing
field of candidates.  “Only the opportunity to help President Obama as his chief
of staff could have pried me away from Chicago,” Emanuel, a
former Illinois congressman, said today during an appearance in
a public school gymnasium. “And only the opportunity to lead
this city could have pried me away from the president’s side.”  Emanuel announced his candidacy for the Feb. 22 election a
day before U.S. Representative  Danny Davis  and Illinois state
Senator  James Meeks , minister of one of Chicago’s largest
churches, are scheduled to say they will also run.  Others who have already announced or have said they will do
so soon include City Clerk Miguel del Valle, former Chicago
school board president  Gery Chico , and former U.S. Senator and
New Zealand Ambassador  Carol Moseley Braun .  Emanuel, 50, is the only white candidate, after Cook County
Sheriff Tom Dart decided against running. Non-Hispanic whites
constitute 32 percent of Chicago’s  population .  Emanuel, whose congressional district comprised parts of
the city’s north side and northwest suburbs before joining the
Obama administration, is planning to start a television
advertising campaign Nov. 15, said  Ben LaBolt , a spokesman.  He has begun lining up support from corporate leaders. A
Nov. 15 fundraiser for him will be co-hosted by  Glenn Tilton ,
United Continental Holdings Inc. chairman, and  Miles White , CEO of Abbott Laboratories, among others.  Rival Campaign  Braun has the support of  John Rogers Jr ., the chairman of
Chicago-based Ariel Investments LLC and an early Obama
fundraiser.  Daley said Sept. 7 that he wouldn’t seek re-election to a
seventh term. The contest to replace the leader of the third-
largest U.S. city based on population comes at a time when
Chicago faces an  estimated  $654.7 million deficit. The city had
a 10.6 percent  unemployment rate  in September.  Standard & Poor’s on Nov. 5 said it downgraded the city’s
credit rating one step to A+, the fifth-highest investment
grade, partly because of the Daley administration’s “heavy
reliance on nonrecurring revenues to bridge its 2011 budget gap,
including the use of most of its remaining reserves from the
sale of its parking meters.”  Emanuel referred to those actions in his announcement
speech. “We cannot keep putting off hard choices and hoping
things will get better, while drawing down each year on rapidly
diminishing reserves,” he said. “We must face the fact that
Chicago has a structural deficit and that strong measures are
required to change the unsustainable course we are on.”  Daley Era Ending  Chicago has been led by the current Daley or his father,
the late  Richard J. Daley , for almost 43 of the past 55 years.  Public records show Emanuel earned at least $17 million in
three years as an investment banker after leaving the
presidential administration of  Bill Clinton  in 1998. He served
Clinton as political director and a senior adviser.  Nov. 22 is the last day to file nomination papers for the
election. If no mayoral candidate gets more than 50 percent,
there will be an April 5 runoff for the top two vote-getters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net . 