-- Equity Funds Drew Most Cash Since Second Quarter of 2008, EPFR Global Says
-- B y   R e i n i e   B o o y s e n
-- 2010-11-13T05:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/equity-funds-globally-attracted-most-weekly-inflows-since-2008-epfr-says.html
Equity funds attracted the highest
weekly inflows worldwide since late in the second quarter of
2008 after the Federal Reserve spelled out plans to support the
U.S. economy, according to  EPFR Global .  Investors committed more than $15 billion to equity funds
tracked by EPFR in the week ended Nov. 10, it said in an e-mail
dated Nov. 12. Commodity-sector funds hit a 26-week high, while
flows into Greater China hit their highest since late 2007.
Emerging market inflows of $79.9 billion this year are set to
exceed 2009’s record $83.3 billion.  “The fund flow taps opened after the U.S. Federal Reserve
spelled out its goals for a new round of quantitative easing --
the so-called QE2 -- on Nov. 4,” EPFR said.  Stocks  slid yesterday, extending the biggest weekly slump
in three months for U.S. benchmark indexes, and commodities
tumbled amid speculation China will lift interest rates. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 2.2 percent over the past five
days, its biggest drop since the second week of August. A week
ago, it rallied to a two-year high amid improving earnings and a
Federal Reserve plan to pump $600 billion into the economy
through purchases of Treasuries.  China may increase rates within weeks after inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace in 25 months in October,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Group of 20 leaders agreed to develop indicators to head
off economic turmoil, while officials from Europe’s largest
economies said outstanding debt will be exempt from a crisis-
resolution mechanism that may force bondholders to share costs
of bailouts.  ‘Macro Items Dominate’  “The market wants to go up, but I worry about one thing
and that’s a dominance of the macro picture coming to the
forefront,” said  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $18 billion as chief
investment officer at Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati.
“The market’s largely through the earnings season, so we’re
moving into that quiet stage. We may be moving back into that
environment where the macro items dominate.”  The Shanghai Composite Index sank 5.2 percent yesterday,
the most since August 2009. The Thomson Reuters/ Jefferies CRB
commodities index fell the most in 18 months as oil and copper
lost more than 3 percent.  Flows into bond funds tracked by EPFR were positive for the
24th consecutive week in early November as collective year-to-
date flows surpassed $365 billion. EPFR tracks $13 trillion of
assets globally.  “With U.S. policy makers opening the liquidity taps even
further, investors focused their attention -- and money -- on
emerging markets and other higher yielding debt,” EPFR said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Reinie Booysen  in Singapore at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 Jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  