-- Euro Weakens Most Against Dollar in Three Months on Sovereign-Debt Turmoil
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-11-13T05:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/euro-weakens-most-against-dollar-in-three-months-on-sovereign-debt-turmoil.html
The euro tumbled the most versus the
dollar in three months on concern that so-called peripheral
European countries will struggle to repay their bondholders.  The dollar gained against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts this week as risk-averse investors sought it as a
refuge. The euro trimmed its five-day loss yesterday on
speculation the European Union will bail out Ireland, while the
Group of 20 leaders at a summit agreed to develop early-warning
indicators to head off global economic turmoil. U.S. consumer
prices rose 0.3 percent last month, a report next week may show.  “The focus is all on the periphery,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in New York.
“The issues of the euro zone have come back on the front
burner. There was very little conviction in euro buying to begin
with, and now there’s less of a reason.”  The 16-nation currency dropped 2.4 percent to $1.3691, the
biggest weekly loss since Aug. 13. It more than erased a 0.6
percent advance it made the previous week.  The yen rose 0.9 percent to 113.02 per euro, from 114.03 on
Nov. 5. The Japanese currency declined for a second week against
the  dollar , falling 1.5 percent to 82.53 and touching a one-
month low of 82.80 yen on Nov. 10.  The euro weakened as the extra yield investors demand to
hold 10-year Irish and Portuguese government bonds instead of
benchmark German bunds widened to records and data showed
Europe’s biggest economies are slowing.  The yield difference, or spread, between  Irish 10-year
securities  and comparable bunds reached 652 basis points, or
6.52 percentage points, the highest ever. The spread on 10-year
Portuguese notes and bunds rose to a record 484 basis points.  Spain’s Economy  Spain’s economy stalled, with third-quarter domestic
product unchanged from the previous three months, state
statistics showed. German and French growth slowed in the third
quarter, while the Dutch economy contracted.  Europe’s common currency lost 0.4 percent in the past week
in a measure of 10 developed-nation counterparts, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes show.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, touched a five-week high of 78.479 as Europe’s
sovereign-debt issues overshadowed the Federal Reserve’s plan to
pump more money into the U.S. financial system, debasing the
dollar. The central bank said Nov. 3 it will buy $600 billion in
Treasuries through June under quantitative easing to spur
inflation and employment.  Debt Issues Resurface  “The euro-zone debt issues have resurfaced in the last few
days, and it seems that the market is focusing on that more,”
said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. in New York. “It seems we are only able to
focus on one thing at a time.”  The Australian, New Zealand and Canadian dollars,
currencies linked to global growth, dropped on speculation China
may raise interest rates to curb inflation. Data showed Chinese
 consumer prices  jumped 4.4 percent in October, the fastest pace
in two years.  The Aussie tumbled 3.1 percent from a week ago, the most
since July, to 98.47 U.S. cents, while the Canadian dollar fell
1.2 percent to C$1.0123 and New Zealand’s currency dropped 2.8
percent to 77.33 U.S. cents.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index fell for the first time in
six weeks, retreating 2.2 percent. Crude oil for December
delivery decreased 2.3 percent to $84.88 a barrel in New York,
after touching a two-year high of $88.63.  Capital Inflows  G-20 leaders agreed at their summit in Seoul that emerging-
market nations facing a surge of capital inflows can adopt
regulatory steps to cope, offering them cover to limit currency
swings and stem asset bubbles.  “Weak consensus around the G-20 means the Asian central
banks will still be actively buying and owning dollars,” said
 Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider Foreign
Exchange in London.  The summit also produced an agreement to develop early-
warning indicators to head off sustained current-account
imbalances that risk roiling the global economy. Finance
ministers will work next year on a set of “indicative
guidelines,” according to a joint statement.  The gathering was marked by clashes over whether Chinese or
U.S. policies were more to blame for economic imbalances that
endanger the global recovery. President  Barack Obama  attacked
China’s policy of undervaluing its currency. China took aim at
the Fed’s quantitative easing, saying it poses dangers to
financial stability.  ‘Hot Money’ Crackdown  China’s State  Administration of Foreign Exchange  said Nov.
9 it would crack down on speculative “hot money” flowing into
the country, according to a statement on the regulator’s
website. The agency will “strictly” punish banks that violate
its currency rules, the statement said.  The yuan gained 0.3 percent for the week to 6.6383 per
dollar. The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s reference
rate for trading at 6.6239 yesterday, the strongest since a peg
ended in July 2005.  “The Chinese talk about the internationalization of the
renminbi,” strategists led by  David Bloom , global head of
currency at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, wrote in a report.
“The world economy is, slowly but surely, moving from
greenbacks to redbacks.”  Consumer prices in the U.S. rose 0.3 percent in October,
according to the median forecast of 65 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey before the Labor Department reports the data on Nov.
17. The consumer price index increased 0.1 percent in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  