-- Gazprom, Bulgaria Sign Accord to Build South Stream Pipe Under Black Sea
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2010-11-13T19:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/gazprom-may-cut-gas-prices-for-bulgaria-up-to-7-by-end-of-2012.html
OAO Gazprom , Russia’s gas export
monopoly, agreed to a joint venture with Bulgaria’s state
utility to run the Balkan country’s section of the planned South
Stream gas pipeline to central and southern Europe.  Gazprom Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  and Bulgarian
Energy Holding Executive Director  Maya Hristova  signed the
agreement today in Sofia, Bulgaria’s capital. Miller is part of
a delegation accompanying Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who
discussed energy projects with his Bulgarian counterpart,  Boiko Borissov .  Bulgarian Energy Holding and Gazprom’s 50-50 partnership
will design, build and operate the section of gas pipeline, with
construction slated to start in 2013. The link under the Black
Sea, which bypasses Ukraine, may carry 63 billion cubic meters
of gas a year to the  European Union  as different projects
compete to supply the fuel. Bulgaria and Romania are competing
on land routes to host South Stream.  “We offered to build a pipeline system directly from the
Russian coast to the Bulgarian coast and ensure stable energy
supply to Bulgaria and Southern Europe, and minimize and remove
any transit risks,” Putin told reporters after the signing.
“Material benefit for Bulgaria is obvious.”  Bulgaria may gain 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) a year in
transit fees from the South Stream gas pipeline, Putin said at
the same briefing.  Ahead of Schedule  Bulgaria is also backing the  OMV AG -led Nabucco pipeline
project, which aims to bring gas from the Caspian Sea region and
the Middle East to Austria via Turkey, and reduce Europe’s
reliance on Russian fuel. Ukraine, which ships about 80 percent
of EU-bound Russian gas, has said South Stream is “wasteful.”  The South Stream project may be completed four months
earlier than its current target of Dec. 31, 2015 as work is
ahead of schedule, Miller said at the same briefing. South
Stream’s costs will be determined in the first quarter of next
year, and Gazprom is prepared to advance payment for work on the
Russian-Bulgarian joint venture, Miller said.  The link will boost the amount of Russian gas transported
through Bulgaria by five times, he said, up from the 13 billion
cubic meters shipped in 2009 to Greece and Turkey via the
Soviet-era pipeline that passes through Ukraine and Romania.  Gazprom is considering routes through Bulgaria and Romania
to eastern, central and southern Europe. Romania hasn’t yet
agreed to take part in South Stream.  The Russian gas producer may cut gas prices for supplies to
Bulgaria by 5 percent to 7 percent by the end of 2012, according
to government documents distributed today before Putin’s visit.
Gazprom and Bulgargaz EAD, Bulgaria’s state-run trader, plan to
sign a long-term supply contract by June 30.  “Negotiations are ongoing,” Miller said.  Editors: Torrey Clark, Keith Campbell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Sofia at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Konstantinova  in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  