-- IMF Ready to Help Ireland, If It Makes Request for Aid, Strauss-Kahn Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2010-11-13T07:42:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/imf-ready-to-help-ireland-if-it-makes-request-for-aid-strauss-kahn-says.html
The International Monetary Fund
stands ready to help Ireland if needed, its managing director
said, as market concern about the country’s debt crisis
continues.  “Everybody knows that the situation with Ireland, it’s a
difficult situation,” IMF Managing Director  Dominique Strauss- Kahn  told reporters today in Yokohama, Japan. “So far I haven’t
received any kind of request. I think they can manage well. If
at one point in time, tomorrow, in two months or two years, the
Irish want support from the IMF, we will be ready.”  In a conference call of European Central Bank officials
around noon Frankfurt time yesterday, Ireland was pressed to
seek outside help within days, said a person briefed on the
discussion who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Ireland could draw on the 60 billion euro ($82 billion)
segment of the broader 750-billion-euro fund set up by the
European Union and International Monetary Fund in May, Irish
state broadcaster RTE said, without saying where it obtained the
information. The smaller pool is funded directly by the European
Commission, the EU’s Brussels-based executive branch.  Bailing out Ireland’s financial system could cost as much
as 50 billion euros under a “stress case” scenario compiled by
the Finance Ministry and central bank. The country’s gross
funding need for 2011 will be 23.5 billion euros, falling to
18.6 billion euros in 2014, the nation’s debt agency said
yesterday.  Irish bonds rose from a record low yesterday, gaining for
the first time in 14 days as traders bet a bailout was near.  Strauss-Kahn, who is attending this weekend’s Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation forum, also told reporters today that
Ireland’s debt problems are mostly linked with “one big bank”
and are different from those of Greece.  “It’s not the same thing as Greece’s problem,” which was
caused by a lack of economic competitiveness in addition to
fiscal woes, he said.  The Irish government nationalized  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  in
January 2009 as loan losses spiraled. The government also has
taken a 36 percent stake in  Bank of Ireland Plc  and is preparing
to take a majority stake in  Allied Irish Banks Plc.   EU countries established the bailout fund in May to protect
the euro area from the fallout of the Greek-led debt crisis.
Speculation has grown that Ireland would need it after a
housing-led recession and the need to save its biggest lenders
plunged it into fiscal turmoil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  