-- Indian Oil Profit Surges, Surpassing Estimates, After Subsidy Compensation
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-11-13T11:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/indian-oil-profit-surges-surpassing-estimates-after-subsidy-compensation.html
Indian Oil Corp. , the nation’s
biggest refiner, posted a more than 18-fold increase in second-
quarter profit, beating analysts’ estimates, after the
government compensated it for selling fuels below cost.  Net income  rose to 52.9 billion rupees ($1.18 billion) for
the three months ended Sept. 30, from 2.8 billion rupees a year
earlier, the state-run refiner said in a statement to the Bombay
Stock Exchange today. That compares with the average 10.6
billion rupee  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The profit gain may bolster efforts by Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s administration and the company to sell shares
in the first quarter of next year as record overseas investments
pushed the benchmark Sensitive Index to a record this month. The
government freed gasoline prices from state control in June
while continuing to set rates for other fuels, including diesel.  “State-run refiners depend too heavily on government
support,”  Alex Mathews , head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas
Financial Services Ltd. in Kochi in southern India, said before
the earnings were announced. “The government supported them
this quarter and we don’t know what will happen in the next.”  Shares  of the refiner have gained 32 percent this year,
outpacing the 15 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index . The stock fell 1.3 percent to 402.55 rupees in Mumbai
trading yesterday. The stock market is closed in India today.  Below Cost  Indian Oil, based in New Delhi, sells diesel, kerosene and
cooking gas below cost to help the government curb inflation.
State refiners are partly compensated by the government and oil
producers including  Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  and Oil India Ltd.  The government gave Indian Oil 72.2 billion rupees as
compensation in the quarter, according to today’s statement. The
refiner didn’t account for any payment a year earlier.  Gasoline prices were increased four times since the price
controls were removed on June 25, according to the company’s
website.  “This is a step in the right direction as it helps reduce
the refiners’ dependence on subsidies,” Mathews said.  Crude oil in New York gained 12 percent to an average
$76.20 a barrel in the quarter, boosted by demand from India and
China, Asia’s two fastest-growing major economies. Oil rose to
this year’s high of $88.63 a barrel on Nov. 11. The December
contract fell $2.93 to settle at $84.88 a barrel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange yesterday.  Refining Margins  Indian Oil’s average gross refining margin for the quarter
was $6.63 a barrel compared with $3.62 a year earlier, the
company said. Sales rose 15 percent to 693.4 billion rupees.  Hindustan Petroleum Corp.  reported second-quarter profit of
20.9 billion rupees and Bharat Petroleum Corp. posted net income
of 21.4 billion rupees. Both state refiners had losses a year
earlier.  The government plans to sell a 10 percent stake in Indian
Oil in the three months ending March 31 as part of an asset-sale
program aimed at cutting the budget deficit. The refiner will
simultaneously offer fresh shares equivalent to a similar stake
to reduce debt as it builds a new refinery and looks for
possible ventures overseas.  Indian Oil operates about 33 percent of the nation’s
refining capacity and is building a new 15 million metric ton-a-
year plant in the eastern state of Orissa. The company added 3
million tons of capacity at its Panipat refinery this month.
Before the expansion, Indian Oil and its unit had a combined
capacity of 61.7 million tons a year, according to its  website .  The government holds a 79 percent stake in Indian Oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 Jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  