-- IPO Drought in Chile May End in 2011 Aided by Economy, Merger of Exchanges
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-11-13T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/ipo-drought-in-chile-may-end-in-2011-aided-by-economy-merger-of-exchanges.html
Chile is set for its busiest year of
initial public offerings since 2005 as a rebounding economy and
surging equity prices lure investors, according to the Santiago
securities exchange.  Seafood producer Cia. Pesquera Camanchaca SA is poised to
end Chile’s one-year IPO drought in a sale planned for next
month while five other companies may go public next year,  Jose Antonio Martinez , chief executive officer of the Bolsa de
Comercio de Santiago, Chile’s biggest exchange by trading
volume, said in an interview yesterday.  Chilean companies are returning to the equity market as the
economy expands at the fastest pace in five years, recovering
from last year’s recession and February’s earthquake. Chile’s
 Ipsa index  has surged 39 percent this year to record levels,
beating the  MSCI EM Latin America Index ’s 9.1 percent gain. The
planned integration of securities trading in Chile, Colombia and
Peru will increase volumes and give a further boost to IPO
activity, Martinez said.  “I’ve heard that there will be five companies looking to
do IPOs next year,” Martinez, 52, said from the exchange’s
downtown Santiago offices. “It’s a consequence of the recovery
of the two last years and the recuperation of the economy. That
means new projects, new developments, new investment and
companies consider this option.”  He declined to name companies that may sell shares next
year, saying their plans aren’t set. Chile’s economy will expand
5 percent to 5.5 percent this year, the central bank forecast in
its quarterly monetary policy report published Sept. 8.  Cross Trading  The exchanges in Chile, Peru and Colombia plan to begin a
trial of cross-border trading in stocks such as Cencosud SA,
Southern Copper Corp. and Ecopetrol SA this month and offer
access to clients in January. In a second phase they may
establish a common exchange which at current prices would have a
combined value of $647 billion compared with Mexico’s $462
billion and Brazil’s $1.7 trillion, according to Bloomberg data.  Banco Davivienda SA  was the only company to hold an IPO in
Colombia this year, raising $233 million, while Pesquera Exalmar
SA was Peru’s sole IPO in the last three years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Colombian mining and oil companies may sell shares for the
first time next year,  Juan Pablo Cordoba , president of the
nation’s stock exchange, said in a Nov. 10 interview. Investors
in Peru and Chile have also expressed interest in Colombian
banking stocks, Cordoba.  Mining Stocks  Integration may also entice Colombian and Peruvian
companies to list shares in Chile,  Guillermo Tagle , who oversees
about $1 billion as chief executive officer of IM Trust
Corredores de Bolsa SA, said in an interview from Santiago.  “We are sure that the integration of the three markets
will be attractive for the issuers,” Martinez said. “Once the
integration starts, investors in all three markets will be
immediately available to participate in the IPOs.”  The integrated bourses, to be called MILA, or Mercado
Integrado Latinoamericano, aim to begin a series of common
indexes in the first half of next year before including fixed-
income securities, Martinez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduardo Thomson  in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 