-- Kan Repeated `Firm' Stance on Island Dispute in Talks With China's Hu
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-13T12:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/kan-repeated-firm-stance-on-island-dispute-in-talks-with-china-s-hu.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
reiterated his country’s “firm” stance on disputed islands in
the East China Sea during a meeting with Chinese President  Hu Jintao , while also calling for “mutually beneficial” ties.  “Regarding the Senkaku Islands, Prime Minister Kan
conveyed Japan’s firm stance,”  Tetsuro Fukuyama , Japan’s deputy
chief cabinet secretary, told reporters after the leaders met
for about 20 minutes today in Yokohama, Japan. Still, “I feel
that Japan and China took a major step toward improving ties.”  Tensions between Asia’s two biggest economies increased
after a Sept. 7 collision between a Chinese fishing trawler and
Japanese Coast Guard boats near the islands, known as Senkaku in
Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. Sovereignty over the area
includes rights to undersea natural gas and oil reserves and
China and Japan have yet to implement a 2008 agreement to
jointly develop the gas fields.  The meeting between the leaders of Japan and China at the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation was only agreed upon today.
Fukuyama said that Hu also commented on the island dispute issue
during the Kan meeting. He declined to elaborate on what Kan and
Hu said about the issue.  Hu and Kan agreed that a mutually beneficial relationship
between the two countries in the long term was in both
countries’ interest and was also “extremely important” for
regional and global development, Fukuyama said.  U.S. Support  In a meeting earlier today with U.S. President  Barack Obama , Kan expressed appreciation for American support in
Japan’s territorial disputes with China and Russia.  “In Japan’s relations with China and Russia, we’ve had
some problems and the United States has supported Japan
throughout, so I expressed my appreciation,” Kan said of his
talks with Obama. “For the peace and security of the countries
in the region, the presence of the United States and the
presence of the U.S. military I believe is only becoming
increasingly important.”  China earlier this month rebuffed Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton ’s offer to mediate the island dispute with
Japan and rejected her contention that the area at the center of
the row falls under the U.S. security blanket.  “The Diaoyu islands are Chinese territory, and the dispute
over the islands with Japan is a matter between China and
Japan,”  Ministry of Foreign Affairs  spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  said in
a  statement . Clinton’s position is “extremely wrong” and the
U.S. should “correct its wrongful stance immediately,” Ma
said.  Clinton said at an Oct. 30 press conference that the U.S.
doesn’t take a position on sovereignty in regard to the
uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.  “But we have made it very clear that the islands are part
of our mutual treaty obligations, and the obligation to defend
Japan,” she said.  -- With assistance from  Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo. Editors: Ken
McCallum, Patrick Harrington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  