-- Eight Senators, 35 Economists Win Right to Argue in Health Care Bill Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/nobel-economists-u-s-senators-get-say-in-health-care-suit-judge-rules.html
Eight U.S. senators, along with
Representative  John Boehner  and 35 economists, won the right to
submit their arguments in a lawsuit by 20 states seeking to undo
the Obama administration’s health-care overhaul.  U.S. District Judge  Roger Vinson  in Pensacola yesterday
granted requests by the eight Republican members of Congress and
the economists to offer their views on the administration’s bid
to have the suit thrown out.  Nineteen states have joined lawsuit brought by Florida
Attorney General  Bill McCollum , who claims the health-care
statute is overbroad and unconstitutional. The suit was filed
March 23, the same day President  Barack Obama  signed the
legislation.  The senators said in their filing that they are “in the
best position to underscore where Congress legislates without
authority,” as the states allege was done in mandating
individuals must obtain health care coverage.  The eight senators, including Republican minority leader
 Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky,  John Cornyn  of Texas and Utah’s
 Orrin Hatch , yesterday backed the states’ contention the act is
unconstitutional.  The group of economists includes three Nobel laureates.  “Everyone gets sick, suffers an injury at some point in
their life or must address the vicissitudes of aging and seek
medical care,” Nobel Prize-winning economists  Kenneth Arrow ,
 George Akerlof ,  Eric Maskin  and their colleagues told the court.  ‘Unpredictable Times’  “Those medical costs typically arise at unpredictable
times and, when they occur, often exceed the ability to pay of
all but the very wealthiest of Americans,” they said in their
filing.  The states, in court papers, claim the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, unlawfully forces individuals
to buy health insurance and compels states to participate in a
“greatly expanded and fundamentally transformed Medicaid
program.”  The U.S. has asked Vinson to toss the case, arguing it was
filed prematurely because the bulk of the act doesn’t take
effect until 2014. The administration has also said the states
failed to identify any injury sustained by them or by
individuals compelled to obtain coverage.  Vinson has scheduled oral argument for Dec. 16.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican who is slated to be speaker of
the House of Representatives when the new Republican majority is
seated in January, said in his filing that he could offer the
court perspective on “the negative effects,” the
administration’s position would have on Congressional
legislative practices.  ‘Incentives for Congress’  The Justice Department’s constitutional interpretation
“would create incentives for Congress to pass ill-conceived or
unrealistic statutes,” Boehner said.  Joining Florida in its lawsuit are Alabama, Alaska,
Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan,
Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South
Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Washington.  A spokeswoman for McCollum, Sandi Copes, said the attorney
general will “wait to see whether the court grants these
motions.”  A parallel challenge to the legislation, filed by Virginia
Attorney General  Kenneth Cuccinelli , is pending in federal court
in Richmond.  The Florida case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, 3:10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 