-- Obama Urges Limits on U.S. Congressional Earmarks for Home-State Projects
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-13T11:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/obama-urges-limits-on-u-s-congressional-earmarks-for-home-state-projects.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  said the
nation’s mounting  budget deficit  calls for additional limits on
earmarks “inserted into spending bills by members of Congress
without adequate review.”  Some earmarks “support worthy projects in our local
communities. But many others do not,” he said in his weekly
radio and Internet address. As an example, he cited a
multimillion-dollar project in Alaska, dubbed the “bridge to
nowhere,” that would have connected an island of 50 residents
with Ketchikan, a town of 8,000. Federal funding for the bridge
was eventually dropped because of widespread criticism.  Though “earmarks like these” represent a “relatively
small” part of the federal budget, Obama said, banning such
directed funding items would show how serious the government is
about getting its fiscal house in order.  “When it comes to signaling our commitment to fiscal
responsibility, addressing them would have an important
impact,” he said.  Record deficits prompted Obama to create a presidential
commission which this week  proposed  a $3.8 trillion deficit-
cutting plan that would reduce Social Security and Medicare and
slash government spending. It would increase income taxes by
$100 billion a year through a reduction in marginal rates and an
end to all tax breaks.  Putting new limitations on earmarks, Obama said, would be a
“step towards restoring public trust” that the federal
government can reduce spending and live within its means.  “We have a chance to advance the interests not of
Republicans or Democrats, but of the American people; to put our
country on the path of fiscal discipline and responsibility that
will lead to a brighter economic future for all,” he said.  Republican Address  In the Republican address, Representative  Greg Walden  of
Oregon said his party is going to “run the House of
Representatives differently than it’s been run in the past”
when they take control of the chamber in January.  Walden, who is head of the party’s House transition team,
said Republicans have already decided to televise meetings of
the  Rules Committee , where legislative procedure is decided. In
addition, he said, his team is examining House operations to
ensure that lawmakers have time “to actually read the bills
before they’re voted on” and that “every one of those bills
contains a clear citation of constitutional authority.”  “We’re also tracking down every last rule and roadblock
rigged to keep government’s spending binge on auto-pilot,” he
said. “If we’re ever going to change the broken status quo, we
need to make it easier to cut spending and harder to increase
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Yokohama at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  