-- Obama Welcomes Japan Interest in Trade Talks After APEC Meeting With Kan
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2010-11-13T05:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/obama-welcomes-japan-interest-in-pacific-trade-talks-in-meeting-with-kan.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
welcomes Japan’s interest in U.S.-led Asia-Pacific free trade
negotiations, adding that America’s commitment to the country’s
defense is “unshakable.”  Speaking after meeting today with Prime Minister Naoto Kan
at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in Yokohama,
Japan, Obama said they discussed “the need to expand trade and
open markets” in the region. Kan said the two leaders had
“fruitful discussions” and expressed his appreciation for U.S.
support in recent disputes with China and Russia.  “We are partners in Asia and around the world,” Obama
told reporters, adding that the countries are deepening their
economic relationship. “I expressed my deep appreciation for
the fact that japan is really a model citizen internationally
and works in support of international rules and norms that can
make all of us more prosperous,” Obama said.  The U.S. is pushing Japan to join the nine-nation  Trans-
Pacific Partnership  talks, testing Kan’s ability to overcome
dissension within his own party. While Kan has touted the
benefits of free trade, his Cabinet this week  agreed  only to
begin preliminary discussions on the negotiations amid a
backlash from Japan’s farmers who benefit from tariff
protection.  “I very much welcomed Japan’s interest in the Trans-
Pacific Partnership,” Obama said.  The APEC summit comes a day after the heads of the  Group of
20  nations including Japan and the U.S. failed to agree on a
remedy for trade and investment distortions. The G-20, meeting
in Seoul, promised to “oppose protectionist trade actions” and
heed “the risks of proliferation of measures that would damage
investment and harm prospects for the global recovery.”  ‘Left Behind’  Kan today told business leaders in Yokohama that Japan “is
being left behind” as other Asian countries open up their
economies. He said his government will create “special economic
zones” to encourage overseas investment.  Kyodo News said about 3,000 farmers rallied against the
talks in Tokyo on Nov. 10, putting pressure on Kan, whose
popularity has fallen as he struggles to boost an economy
hindered by deflation and a surging yen. More than 100 lawmakers
in his  Democratic Party of Japan  have expressed concerns because
the accord would lift tariffs on rice and other produce.  APEC trade and foreign ministers this week in Yokohama
agreed to keep from imposing additional trade restrictions until
at least 2013. Japan has concluded agreements with 10 countries
and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. Those deals
apply to 16 percent of its international trade, compared with
U.S. accords that cover 38 percent and South Korea’s 36 percent,
according to Japanese Cabinet Office data.  Global Trade  APEC groups 21 economies including the U.S., Japan, China
and Taiwan, and covers more than 50 percent of the global
economy and almost 45 percent of its trade.  This weekend’s meetings may also touch upon Japan’s recent
territorial disagreements with Russia and China. Kan will meet
with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , who on Nov. 1 visited
one of four islands claimed by both countries.  Kan is also seeking talks with Chinese President  Hu Jintao 
to resolve tension over a diplomatic row sparked by the
collision of a fishing boat with two Japanese Coast Guard
vessels. The incident near disputed islands on Sept. 7 soured
relations between Asia’s two biggest economies.  The Obama administration has backed Japan’s position in
both disputes, helping to ease tensions over an eight-month
disagreement over whether to move a U.S. Marine base off the
island of Okinawa.  ‘Some Problems’  “In Japan’s relations with China and Russia, we’ve had
some problems and the United States has supported Japan
throughout, so I expressed my appreciation,” Kan said of his
talks with Obama. “For the peace and security of the countries
in the region, the presence of the United States and the
presence of the U.S. military I believe is only becoming
increasingly important.”  Obama and Kan said they will move ahead with implementing
the Okinawa realignment plan that includes transferring the
Futenma Marine Air Base to another part of Okinawa, amid
opposition from local residents.  Japanese government reports last month were contradictory
on the benefits of joining the TPP, which includes the U.S.,
Australia, New Zealand, Brunei, Singapore, Chile, Vietnam, Peru,
and Malaysia. The Cabinet Office said the accord would boost
gross domestic product by as much as 3.2 trillion yen ($39
billion), while the agriculture ministry said the size of the
economy might fall by 7.9 trillion yen if tariffs are lifted.  While Kan’s popularity has fallen amid criticism over his
foreign policy, the public favors joining the TPP talks. The
prime minister’s approval rating slumped to 35 percent from 53
percent a month ago, the Yomiuri newspaper said on Nov. 8. More
than 60 percent supported the trade talks, the poll said.  “We shouldn’t expect spectacular success from the
bilateral meetings,” said  Kunihiko Miyake , a former foreign
affairs official and research director of the Tokyo-based Canon
Institute for Global Studies. “If Kan can participate in new
frameworks that will benefit Japan in the long-term, that will
be enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Yokohama at  jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  