-- Obama Tells Business Leaders That U.S. Is `Here to Stay' in Asian Markets
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-11-13T00:45:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/obama-tells-business-leaders-that-u-s-is-here-to-stay-in-asian-markets.html
President  Barack Obama  told Japanese
business leaders that the U.S. is “here to stay” in Asia as he
neared the end of a 10-day trip across the region.  Speaking to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation’s
CEO Business Summit in Yokohama, Japan, Obama said engagement
with Asia is a “jobs strategy,” important to his goal of
increasing U.S. exports and spurring economic growth around the
world.  “We don’t want to lose the opportunity to sell our goods
and services in fast-growing markets. We don’t want to lose the
opportunity to create new jobs back home,” he said according to
the prepared text of the speech. “When it comes to this
growing, sprawling region of the world, the United States is
here to stay.”  Obama is in Japan for the APEC leaders meeting on a trip
that has taken him to India, Indonesia and South Korea. At each
stop he’s highlighted the need to boost exports in Asia’s
rapidly growing economies in order to create jobs at home, where
the  unemployment  rate has been 9.5 percent or higher for the
last 14 months.  Obama told the hundreds of Japanese chief executives
gathered at the conference that he makes “no apologies” for
trying to bring jobs to the U.S. through trade, but that
economic growth in any country is good for others.  ‘Win-Win’  “There’s no need to view trade, commerce, or economic
growth as zero sum games, where one country always has to
prosper at the expense of another,” he said. “If we work
together, and act together, strengthening our economic ties can
be a win-win for all of our nations.”  Obama has used the trip to reach out to the business
community, which has been critical of the administration’s
health care law and regulatory policies. In India, Obama
addressed a summit of chief executive officers that included
 Jeffrey Immelt  of  General Electric Co.  and  Jim McNerney  of
 Boeing Co.  and announced $10 billion worth of commercial deals
that the administration estimates will support 50,000 U.S. jobs.  Obama also used his speech to defend an agreement reached
yesterday at the Group of 20 summit meeting in Seoul that
encourages member nations to reduce their current account
balances and allow the market to set the value of their
currencies.  In addition to the formal APEC schedule, the president will
meet with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev , and Prime Ministers
 Naoto Kan  of Japan and  Julia Gillard  of Australia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Yokohama at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Yokohama at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  