-- Panamericano Said to Be Owed $232 Million From Silvio Santos Card Company
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2010-11-13T19:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/panamericano-said-to-be-owed-232-million-from-silvio-santos-card-company.html
Silvio Santos , the Brazilian media
mogul whose  Banco Panamericano SA  is under investigation for
alleged fraud, sought bailout funds after he discovered his own
credit card company owed the bank 400 million reais ($232
million), a person close to the probe said.  Santos, 79, also needed financing after the central bank
found 2.1 billion reais of losses stemming from the sale of
credit portfolios to other lenders that Panamericano had
recorded as assets, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the investigation is confidential.  Grupo  Silvio Santos  in Sao Paulo controls Panamericano, the
nation’s 21st-largest lender by assets, as well as television
stations, a cosmetics maker, electronics retailer and a credit
card company, Panamericano Distribuidora de Cartoes de Credito.
Prosecutors and the federal police said yesterday they opened a
criminal investigation after the central bank found accounting
inconsistencies going back as many as four years.  The aim is “to investigate eventual crimes related to
facts recently reported on Banco Panamericano and to follow the
central bank supervision of the financial institution,” the
public prosecutor’s office in São Paulo said in a  statement 
posted on its website.  Seven Directors  Grupo Silvio Santos said yesterday that it hired
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to investigate Panamericano’s
accounting irregularities, according to an e-mail from the
group’s press office. Panamericano said in a regulatory filing
yesterday it was suspending publication of its third-quarter
results.  The central bank will probe seven former directors of the
bank and may investigate auditors at  Deloitte & Touche LLP , the
person said. Deloitte declined to comment, according to an e-
mailed statement.  Central bank regulators found that the 1.6 billion reais of
net assets booked by Panamericano was actually negative 900
million reais, Supervision Director  Alvir Hoffmann  said Nov. 10.
The bank was recording as assets loans it had sold to other
institutions and there is evidence that loan portfolios were
sold more than once, Hoffmann said.  At least five banks may be interested in buying a
controlling stake in Panamericano, O Estado de S. Paulo
 reported , citing a source familiar with the negotiations that it
did not identify. Brazil’s deposit insurance fund FGC, which
made a 2.5 billion reais ($1.5 billion) loan to the bank to
shore up capital after accounting irregularities were found,
will analyze the proposals, Estado said, without citing anyone.  Shares Fall  Panamericano shares fell 4.6 percent to 4.76 reais in Sao
Paulo yesterday, extending their loss last week to more than 30
percent. Panamericano’s 8.5 percent dollar bonds due in 2020
declined yesterday, increasing the yield to 9.4 percent from 9
percent. The securities sank to 94.27 cents on the dollar from
110 cents at the end of last week, prices from Trace show.  Banco BVA SA, a Brazilian bank specializing in loans to
mid-sized companies, delayed an international bond yesterday as
the Panamericano probe curbed demand for debt from the country’s
lenders, according to people familiar with the transaction.  Bank regulators noticed six weeks ago that there were
discrepancies between the volume of credit the Sao Paulo-based
bank declared it sold and the amount of loan portfolios banks
said they bought, Hoffmann said at a press conference in
Brasilia this week.  Silvio Santos  Grupo Silvio Santos put up assets as collateral for the 2.5
billion reais of loans it took out from the insurance fund,
which is financed by banks that operate in Brazil, Panamericano
said.  Antonio Carlos Bueno , a director at the fund, said this
week that the assets are worth 2.7 billion reais, and that
Silvio Santos participated in every meeting over the past month
to design the rescue.  State-controlled bank Caixa Economica Federal owns a 35
percent stake in the lender after agreeing to pay 739 million
reais in December 2009. The deal closed in July.  The criminal probe “is positive because it gives a
guarantee that the problem will be resolved as it should be,”
said  Augusto Lange , who helps manage 1.25 billion reais at Neo
Gestao de Recursos in Sao Paulo. “If you don’t resolve the
problem, it’s very bad for the government and for minority
shareholders of Panamericano, independently of what you find in
there.”  New Chief Executive  Panamericano named  Celso Antunes  da Costa as chief
executive officer, replacing  Rafael Palladino  and seven new
executive directors, after uncovering “accounting
inconsistencies” that misrepresented the company’s assets,
according to a regulatory filing on Nov. 9. The cash injection
aims to “preserve current levels of capital,” Panamericano
said in the filing.  Brazil’s federal audit court, similar to the U.S.
Government Accountability Office, may start a probe into the
bailout of Panamericano, said Marinus Marsico, a federal
prosecutor at the court.  Marsico is monitoring a central bank probe into the matter
and may request an investigation of the roles of the central
bank and Caixa ahead of this week’s bailout, he said yesterday
in a telephone interview from Brasilia.  Any action would have to wait for a conclusion of the
central bank’s probe, he said.  Leaders of Brazil’s two biggest opposition parties said
yesterday they will seek to probe  Caixa’s  purchase of a stake in
Panamericano. Caixa’s President  Maria Fernanda Ramos Coelho  and
central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  were invited to a
public hearing before the Senate’s Constitution, Justice and
Citizenship Committee to clarify the deal.  Antonio Carlos Magalhaes Junior, leader of the Democrats in
the Senate, said in an interview he will seek to hold the
hearing Nov. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
 Adriana Brasileiro  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  