-- Pelosi Heads Off Democratic Leadership Fight, Backs Hoyer for No. 2 Post
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2010-11-13T21:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/pelosi-heads-off-democratic-leadership-fight-backs-hoyer-for-no-2-post.html
U.S. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi 
averted a potentially divisive leadership fight between two of
her top lieutenants as Democrats prepared for minority status
next year.  Under an arrangement reached late yesterday,  Steny Hoyer  of
Maryland, the current majority leader, would get the No. 2 job
of minority whip come January.  Jim Clyburn , now majority whip,
would hold the third-ranking position in the newly created post
of assistant leader.  “Should I receive the privilege of serving as House
Democratic leader, I will be very honored to nominate our
outstanding colleague, Congressman Jim Clyburn of South
Carolina, to serve in the number three House Democratic
position,” Pelosi, 70, said in an e-mailed note today to fellow
Democrats. Clyburn’s “strategic leadership as whip was crucial
to our passage of historic legislation on jobs, health care,
veterans and Wall Street reform on behalf of the American
people,” she said.  Hoyer, 71, announced Nov. 8 that he would seek to retain
his No. 2 position in the leadership ranks and Clyburn, 70, the
lone black among the Democratic hierarchy, said he, too, would
run for minority whip.  Clyburn said in a statement today that the arrangement
“honors the diversity and fosters the unity” of House
Democrats by “adding another chair to the leadership table with
a substantive, well-defined portfolio.” Giving minorities
representation is “the road back to the majority” for the
party.  The decision by Pelosi on Nov. 5 to run for minority leader
rather than step aside had set up the potential fight after
Democrats lost their House majority in the Nov. 2 midterm
elections, and with it one of three leadership jobs. No one has
announced a challenge to Pelosi.  Democrats lost at least 60 House seats in the Nov. 2
elections, reducing their caucus to about 188 members and
meaning it would take at least 95 votes, in a secret ballot, to
win a spot in the leadership.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 