-- Treasuries Slump as Federal Reserve Begins Second Round of Monetary Easing
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-11-13T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/treasuries-slump-as-federal-reserve-begins-second-round-of-monetary-easing.html
Treasuries tumbled, with two-year
note yields  rising  the most in 10 months, as government debt
sales received lower-than-average demand even as the Federal
Reserve started a second round of monetary stimulus.  Treasury 10-year notes  rose  26 basis point for the week,
the most since December 2009, ahead of government reports
forecast to show U.S. retail sales and consumer prices
increased, indicators of faster economic growth. The Fed began
buying $105 billion of debt through Dec. 9 to spark the economy
and lift inflation expectations, including as much as $34.5
billion next week.  “We rallied very hard into the Fed announcement and now
with the supply over and the first purchase completed, the
market is giving up some of the gains,” said  Eric Lascelles ,
chief rates strategist and economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s
TD Securities unit in Toronto. “The Fed purchases are still
brand new and will hold the attention to the market, but next
week eyes will also be on retail sales and CPI to see if we have
any more positive economic momentum.”  The  yield  on the two-year note increased 14 basis points,
or 0.14 percentage point, to 0.50 percent in New York, according
to BGCantor Market Data, the most since the week ended Jan. 1.
Benchmark 10-year note yields rose 26 basis points to 2.78
percent and 30-year bond yields gained 16 basis points to 4.28
percent.  Debt Sales  The Treasury’s $16 billion auction of 30-year bonds on Nov.
10 drew a bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, of 2.31, the
lowest since November 2009.  The day before the Treasury sold $24 billion of 10-year
notes at a yield of 2.636 percent, compared with the average
forecast of 2.644 percent in a Bloomberg News survey. On Nov. 8
the government sold $32 billion in three-year debt at a yield of
0.575 percent, compared with the 0.577 percent average forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The yield difference between Treasury 10-year notes and 30-
year bonds  hovered  near unprecedented levels even as it
contracted to 150.7 percentage points, after touching an all-
time high of 160.3 percentage points On Nov. 10. The spread has
averaged 52.8 percentage points since the start of 2000.  Wide Spread  “The spread has widened out with the Fed buying more in
the 10-year sector than the 30-year bond, and inflation
expectations increasing,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA’s BNP Paribas
Securities unit, one of the 18 primary dealers required to bid
at Treasury auctions. “Whether it continues to widen is a
question on the market’s mind.”  Retail sales in the U.S. climbed 0.7 in October, the fourth
consecutive increase, according to the median forecast of 67
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Consumer prices in the U.S.,
for goods other than food and energy, rose 0.1 percent in
October, according to 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Treasuries also fell this week as European finance
ministers sought to reassure investors who have driven bond
yields to records in Ireland and Portugal as leaders at a Group
of 20 summit in Seoul addressed the Irish debt crisis amid
speculation the EU will need to step in with a bailout.  Ireland Talks  Ireland’s Finance Ministry said it isn’t holding talks on
an application for emergency funding from the EU. Reuters
reported, citing euro-zone sources it didn’t name, that Ireland
is in talks about tapping a European rescue fund and it’s very
likely to get aid.  “Ireland is fully funded into the middle of 2011,” the
Finance Ministry said in an e-mail yesterday. “There is no
application for emergency funding from the European Union.”  The Fed yesterday began a second round of unconventional
monetary easing by acquiring $7.23 billion of Treasuries in
attempt to drive down borrowing rates to help reduce
unemployment and avert deflation.  The acquisitions are part of the Fed’s plan to acquire $600
billion of Treasuries through June and reinvest maturing
mortgage holdings. The policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee announced this round of stimulus on Nov. 3.  ‘Some Discomfort’  “There is some discomfort in the market right now because
the QE2 has come under such criticism by a vast array of
sources,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist in New
York at primary dealer Jefferies & Co. Inc. “Once the Fed gets
into its routine -- next week they will be in buying Treasuries
every day -- it will begin to have a positive effect on the
Treasury market.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, measuring price
swings based on over-the-counter options maturing in 2 to 30
years, climbed yesterday to 91.60, the highest level since Nov.
2, the day before the central bank announced that it will buy
$600 billion in additional government debt through June.  “Many expected that volatility would have declined since
QE is a prescription for low and stable rates,”  James Caron ,
head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at primary dealer Morgan
Stanley in New York, wrote in a research note. “We should get
used to the fact that rates may swing around a lot, but
ultimately stay in a range, unless fundamental conditions change
and warrant a break in that range. Perhaps this is the new world
order that QE will usher in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net 
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  