-- S. Korea, Turkey Pause Nuclear Plant Talks After Accord Fails on Pricing
-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-11-13T03:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/s-korea-turkey-pause-nuclear-plant-talks-after-accord-fails-on-pricing.html
South Korea said it will continue
discussions with Turkey after failing to reach an agreement to
build a nuclear power plant on that country’s Black Sea coast.  “We could not reach an agreement this time because of
differences in issues including electricity sales price,” South
Korea’s Ministry of Knowledge Economy said today in an e-mailed
statement.  State-run  Korea Electric Power Corp.  and a Turkish builder
agreed in March to bid jointly for the contract to build the
plant. Negotiations with the Turkish government have been hit by
disagreement over shareholding in the project, Turkish Energy
Minister  Taner Yildiz  said on Nov. 8.  The countries will resume talks as soon as possible after
Turkey reviews South Korea’s proposal, the ministry said,
without giving details of the proposal.  South Korea also faces competition from Japan, which bid to
build the plant in Turkey, CNBC-e television said on Oct. 7,
citing Yildiz. The Japanese bid is an “aggressive one,” the
Istanbul-based news channel cited the energy minister as saying.  In May, Russia signed a $20 billion contract to build
Turkey’s first nuclear power plant consisting of four reactors,
following more than a year of negotiations.  South Korea emerged as a competitor in the global nuclear
market after Korea Electric beat General Electric Co. and  Areva
SA  in December last year to an $18.6 billion order to supply
reactors to the United Arab Emirates.  Potential Markets  South Korea aims to secure $400 billion of contracts by
2030 as demand for nuclear plants increases. Korea Electric has
said it’s seeking to build reactors in India and Malaysia, and
considers South Africa, Thailand, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia as
potential markets.  Demand for nuclear power, the source of 15 percent of the
world’s electricity, has rebounded as nations seek to cut use of
more-polluting energy sources including coal and oil.  The global count of reactors may double by 2030, driven by
demand in India and China, according to the  World Nuclear
Association . About 435 plants are planned or proposed by 2030,
data from the London-based group show.  South Korea operates 20 domestic nuclear plants totaling
the world’s sixth-largest capacity, and plans to complete 18
additional reactors by 2030.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 