-- U.S. Pushes China for Yuan Appreciation Before Hu's January Visit to Obama
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2010-11-13T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/u-s-pushes-china-for-yuan-appreciation-before-hu-s-january-visit-to-obama.html
The U.S. called on China to let the
yuan rise before President Hu Jintao’s planned January trip to
Washington, setting a deadline for results after Group of 20
leaders failed to reach a broad agreement on currencies.  Hu’s U.S. visit “will be an important time to look at
exactly what the quantum of progress has been” on China’s
currency reforms, National Security Adviser Thomas Donilon told
reporters today in Yokohama, Japan. The pace of the moves is a
“sovereign decision” and the U.S. “will certainly be
looking.”  The U.S. push for quick action comes a day after President
Barack Obama ramped up his criticism of China’s policies,
calling the yuan “undervalued” at the G-20 Summit in Seoul.
Leaders failed to agree on a remedy for economic imbalances that
endanger the global recovery as they clashed over whether
Chinese or U.S. policies were more to blame.  “No nation should assume that their path to prosperity is
simply paved with exports to America,” Obama said yesterday in
a speech at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum in
Yokohama, which he attended along with Hu after the leaders left
Seoul.  The yuan has risen about 3 percent against the dollar since
June 19, when China said it was allowing a resumption of
appreciation that was frozen in 2008. China has $2.65 trillion
of foreign currency reserves, more than double any other country.  ‘Steady Pace’  “China will continue to improve its currency reform at a
steady pace,” Hu told reporters in Yokohama.  China ran up a $201 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S. in
the first nine months of this year, more than the U.S. deficit
with the next seven-largest trading partners combined, Commerce
Department data show.  Chinese policy makers say the Federal Reserve’s monetary
easing policy poses risks for global financial stability. More
capital inflows to the region will fuel asset bubbles and
inflation, Jin Zhongxia, a deputy director general of the
international department at the People’s Bank of China, said
yesterday.  “Major reserve-currency issuing countries excessively
print money to get out of their own economic difficulties,
posing a policy dilemma for emerging economies,” Jin said in
Macau, without naming any countries.  ‘Indicative Guidelines’  The G-20 said emerging markets facing a surge of capital
inflows can adopt regulatory steps to cope, offering them cover
to limit currency swings as the U.S. adds $600 billion of
liquidity. The group’s finance ministers will work next year on
a set of “indicative guidelines” designed to identify large
economic imbalances and how to fix them, according to a joint
statement released at the Seoul summit.  “We averted, hopefully, a currency war,”  Mari Pangestu ,
trade minister for Indonesia, a G-20 member, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. Currency issues “cannot be
solved bilaterally or unilaterally,” she said.  Obama and Hu were among 21 leaders meet at APEC in Japan
following two days of talks at the G-20 summit.  The yuan declined 0.2 percent to 6.6370 per dollar as of
5:30 p.m. two days ago in Shanghai, even after the People’s Bank
of China set the reference rate at 6.6239, the strongest level
since a peg ended in July 2005, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency has climbed 0.3 percent in
the past five days, the second weekly gain.  Some Japanese business leaders have backed China’s currency
approach on grounds that an abrupt change could send ripples
through the global economy.  “China’s current policy of moving gradually, carefully,
step by step to a more flexible exchange rate regime is really
the right idea,” Junichi Ujiie, chairman of Keidanren, Japan’s
biggest business lobby, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday. Moving quickly would “cause confusion in
China’s economy, which is going to be really hard for the global
economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  