-- U.S. Stocks Fall as S&P 500 Index Has Biggest Weekly Drop in Three Months
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-11-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/u-s-stocks-retreat-on-concern-china-will-raise-rates-apple-alcoa-slump.html
U.S. stocks fell, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its biggest weekly drop in three
months, as concern about Europe’s debt crisis intensified,
speculation China will boost interest rates grew and  Cisco
Systems Inc. ’s projection missed analysts’ estimates.  Alcoa Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
retreated more than 3.2 percent to help lead losses in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average. Cisco, the world’s largest maker of
computer-networking equipment, tumbled 17 percent for the
biggest weekly slump in two years.  Boeing Co. , the largest
aerospace company, decreased 11 percent after halting flights of
the 787 Dreamliner while investigating a fire on a test plane.  The  S&P 500  lost 2.2 percent to 1,199.21, snapping a five-
week rally. The  Dow  dropped 251.50 points, or 2.2 percent, to
11,192.58, after gaining 14 percent since the end of August and
climbing to a two-year high.  “It’s still a risk-on, risk-off market,” said  Mike Ryan ,
the New York-based head of wealth management research for the
Americas at UBS Financial Services Inc., which oversees about
$641 billion. “There’s a sense of ‘toppiness’ coupled with some
concern about what’s happening in the euro zone. We’ve had this
huge run-up and it’s not surprising when these risk issues
reemerge to see the markets across the globe being affected.”  The  S&P 500  gained as much as 20 percent from its 2010 low
in July amid improving earnings and speculation the Federal
Reserve will stoke growth by pumping more cash into financial
markets. Earnings per share have  topped  estimates at 76 percent
of the 433 companies in the index that reported since Oct. 7,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Significant’ Selloff  Gary Shilling , who predicted the U.S. housing collapse,
says the stock market is overvalued and foresees a
“significant” selloff within a year as the Fed fails to
stimulate economic growth through a technique, also used last
year, known as quantitative easing.  “I don’t think it’s enough to make a great deal of
difference,” Shilling, 73, president of the investment research
firm A. Gary Shilling & Co. in Springfield, New Jersey, said in
a telephone interview. “The earlier QE1 didn’t and I don’t
think this will, either. The economy is weak and it doesn’t take
very much of a shock to push it into negative territory. I don’t
think that’s enough to justify where stocks are now.”  The  MSCI World Index  posted the third weekly decline in a
month and the euro fell to a six-week low versus the dollar as
German, French and British finance ministers held talks at the
Group of 20 nations meeting on Ireland’s debt crisis. The
benchmark for developed nations declined 0.9 percent yesterday
amid speculation China will lift interest rates.  ‘Everything’s Red’  “Everything’s red,” said  John Lynch , chief equity
strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management, which oversees $465
billion. “We’ve gone for quite a sprint. I think fiscal policy’s
the key here now.”  The  S&P 500 Financials Index  had the biggest decline among
10 industries this week, falling 4 percent.  Technology stocks  in the S&P 500 fell 3.2 percent after
Cisco said revenue in the fiscal second quarter will be about
$10.1 billion to $10.3 billion. Excluding some costs, earnings
will be 35 cents a share at most. Analysts projected sales of
$11.1 billion and profit of 42 cents on average, according to
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Cisco stock had the biggest one-day drop since July 1994 on
Nov. 11 and fell 17 percent to $20.15 for the week.  Boeing  Boeing sank 11 percent to $63.09. Chief Executive Officer
 Jim McNerney  said Nov. 11 that the company should know “fairly
quickly” whether this week’s fire aboard a 787 Dreamliner will
affect the plane’s entry into service, which is almost three
years late.  Intel Corp.  gained 1.4 percent to $21.53. The world’s
largest chipmaker said it will increase its quarterly dividend
about 14 percent to 18 cents per share, starting with the payout
to be declared next quarter, as a pickup in personal-computer
demand boosts its earnings.  Quarterly reports scheduled for next week include  Home
Depot Inc.  and Lowe’s Cos., the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailers, and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s biggest
retailer. Dell Inc., the world’s third-largest personal-computer
maker; Staples Inc., the largest office-supply retailer; and
H.J. Heinz Co., the biggest ketchup maker, are also due to
report results.  Retail sales probably rose in October for a fourth month
and factory production rebounded, adding to evidence the U.S.
recovery picked up at the start of the fourth quarter,
economists said before reports next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 