-- U.S. Seeks 90-Day Freeze on West-Bank Settlement Building to Revive Talks
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-11-14T03:28:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/u-s-seeks-90-day-freeze-on-west-bank-settlement-building-to-revive-talks.html
A U.S. proposal aimed at the
resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks urges Israel to
freeze West Bank construction for 90 days in return for American
backing in the United Nations and 20 advanced warplanes,
diplomats said today.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  brought the proposal,
which was made during an eight-hour meeting Nov. 11 in New York
with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , to his inner Cabinet
late yesterday.  The proposed moratorium doesn’t cover building in east
Jerusalem, which the Palestinians seek as the capital of a
future state. The U.S. would commit to refrain from seeking any
further building freeze after the 90 days were up, diplomats
familiar with the offer said.  Philip J. Crowley , the State Department spokesman, said in
an e-mail that Clinton “had a productive meeting” with
Netanyahu on Thursday. “We continue to encourage the parties to
resume negotiations,” Crowley said. “We are not going to
comment on any specific elements under discussion.”  Direct negotiations between Netanyahu and Palestinian
Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , initiated in a Sept. 1 White
House ceremony, stalled less than a month later when a partial
10-month Israeli freeze on West Bank construction came to an end.
Abbas has said he won’t resume talks unless Israel stops all
settlement building.  90-Day Freeze  The new 90-day freeze proposed by the U.S., if approved by
Israel, would include any new construction begun since the
previous 10-month moratorium ended on Sept. 26, the diplomats
said.  Netanyahu and Abbas agreed in September to try to reach an
agreement on the framework for a comprehensive peace accord
within a year. All the issues at the core of the conflict would
be on the table, including the borders of a future Palestinian
state, security arrangements for Israel and the right of
Palestinian refugees to return.  Palestinian leaders have said they will seek recognition of
an independent state from the United Nations Security Council if
Israel doesn’t stop the construction in the West Bank and parts
of Jerusalem captured in the 1967 war and talks don’t resume.  Assured Veto  The American proposal assured Israel of a U.S. veto in the
UN Security Council and other international bodies on any
proposal that would try to impose a Middle East peace agreement
on Israel, delegitimize the Jewish state or negate its right to
self-defense, the diplomats said.  In addition, the Obama administration would ask Congress to
approve supplying 20 advanced warplanes, worth about $3 billion,
to Israel, the diplomats added, without saying when the jets
would be delivered.  Netanyahu’s visit to the U.S. last week was marked by U.S.
criticism of Israeli plans to build some 1,000 new homes in east
Jerusalem, which Israel captured from Jordan in the 1967 Middle
East war and later annexed in a move never internationally
recognized.  President  Barack Obama  on Nov. 9 called Israeli plans to
build hundreds of new homes in east Jerusalem not “helpful when
it comes to peace negotiations.” Netanyahu said Israel has the
right to build everywhere in the city.  Complaints ‘Overblown’  Representative  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican who is in
line to become majority leader when his party takes control of
the U.S. House in January, met with Netanyahu on Nov. 10. He
said Obama’s administration should “make absolutely clear”
that the U.S. would veto any UN measure about establishing a
Palestinian state.  In a Nov. 9 interview with Bloomberg Television, Netanyahu
said Palestinian complaints about Israeli settlement
construction were “a minor issue” that has become “way
overblown.”  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the West Bank and east
Jerusalem since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the  Fourth Geneva Convention  governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to any
country before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  