-- Woods Trails by 10 Heading Into Last Round of Australian Masters Defense
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-11-13T06:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-11-13/woods-trails-by-10-heading-into-last-round-of-australian-masters-defense.html
Tiger Woods  will enter the final
day of his  Australian Masters  title defense 10 shots behind
leader Adam Bland after carding an even-par third round.  The world’s No. 2-ranked golfer struggled with his putter
for the third straight day at a rain-soaked Victoria Golf Club
in Melbourne, making three bogeys and three birdies to remain
at 1-under-par through 54 holes at the par-71 course.  Woods, 34, hasn’t won since his two-shot victory at
nearby Kingston Heath 12 months ago and faces the likely
prospect of finishing the year without a title for the first
time in his professional career.  “Unfortunately I’m so far back that even posting a low
one tomorrow, I still need help from the leaders,” Woods said.
“I’ll try and get off to a quick start and get it going.”  Less than two weeks after winning the 2009 Australian
Masters, the 14-time major champion entered a turbulent 12
months that began with a single-car accident outside his
Florida home in the early hours of Nov. 27.  Since then, Woods has admitted to repeated marital
infidelity, leading to his divorce and the loss of sponsors
including Accenture Plc,  AT&T Inc.  and  Procter & Gamble Co. ’s
Gillette razors. His record five-year run atop the  Official
World Golf Ranking  ended last week.  As constant rain fell at the 6,886-yard (6,297 meter)
course, Woods missed three putts inside 5 feet on his opening
six holes. A birdie on the last after a wayward drive kept him
under par for the tournament with a 54-hole total of 212.  “I didn’t make the putts and you’ve got to make the
putts,” added Woods. “I struggled to get the ball in the
hole.”  Bland, whose three tournament victories came on second-
tier tours in Canada and Australia, heads the 17 players under
the card after three rounds on  11-under-par , a three-shot
advantage over fellow Australian Daniel Gaunt.  Spain’s  Sergio Garcia , who had moved into contention
yesterday after a 6-under-par second round, slipped 12 shots
off the lead with a 6-over-par 77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  at the Victoria Golf Club at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  