-- Yields Fall to Eisenhower Low in Pimco-BofA View of Fed Easing
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2010-09-28T13:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-12/treasury-yields-decline-to-eisenhower-low-in-pimco-bofa-view-of-fed-easing.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest mutual fund at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , said
the planned exodus of hedge-fund icon  Stanley Druckenmiller 
helps mark the end of the “old normal” for investing.  The departure of Druckenmiller, who has run Duquesne
Capital Management LLC since 1980, and fact that Chicago-based
hedge-fund Citadel LLC is considering cutting fees on some funds
as it attempts to attract clients, “are reflective of a broader
trend in capital markets,” Gross wrote in a monthly investment
outlook posted on Pimco’s  website  today. “The new normal has a
new set of rules. Leverage and deregulation are fading from the
horizon and their polar opposites are in the ascendant,” Gross
added.  Druckenmiller told investors last month he’d been worn down
by the stress of trying to maintain one of the best trading
records in the industry while managing an “enormous amount of
capital.”  Citadel LLC, the $11.1 billion firm founded by  Ken Griffin , is said to be considering cutting fees on the
Kensington and Wellington hedge funds, according to two people
with knowledge of the firm’s plans.  The “new normal” will be an environment where “future
investment returns will be far lower than historical averages,”
Gross added. “If bond investors believe that the resplendent
and abundant capital gains of the past 25 years will be
duplicated from yield levels of 2 to 3 percent -- well, they
just haven’t been to Japan, have they?”  Reflation Trade  Even as the best route to economic prosperity is the “good
old-fashioned route,” involving things like investment
production and new technology development, the Federal Reserve
policy makers will resort to “reflation” through a combination
of low interest rates and “quantitative easing,” wrote Gross,
who runs the $248 billion  Total Return Fund .  Pimco reduced  holdings  of government-related debt for a
second consecutive month in August as Treasury yields fell to an
19-month low, according to the  website  of Newport Beach,
California-based firm. The Total Return Fund’s investment in the
debt was cut to 36 percent of assets in August, from 54 percent
the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Liz Capo McCormick  in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net . 