-- Home Depot faces shareholder proposal on strategy
-- 
-- Mon Dec 18, 2006 9:14am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/18/businesspro-homedepot-proposal-dc-idUSWEN127420061218

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc. ( HD.N ), facing falling 
profit and a regulatory probe about its options practices, said 
on Monday an investment firm plans to propose that a special 
committee of independent directors review the company's 
strategy. 

  The planned proposal, by investment firm Relational 
Investors LLC, would call for a committee to review the 
company's strategic direction, the performance of management 
and strategic alternatives.  Relational, which previously lead a proxy battle at 
Sovereign Bancorp Inc. SOV.N, and eventually took one seat on 
that company's board, also said it may seek one or more board 
seats at Home Depot's 2007 annual meeting.  Home Depot said it will oppose Relational's proposal and 
any proxy solicitations by Relational, adding that its board of 
directors recently completed a strategic review and unanimously 
supports the management team.  Home Depot said it has advised Relational that it will 
arrange a meeting early in the new year.  Ralph Whitworth, founder and principal at San Diego-based 
Relational, could not be reached for comment.  Home Depot's profits have been hit this year as the slowing 
housing market has cut into home improvement sales. For the 
quarter ended October 29, the company said net income fell more 
than 3 percent and that sales at stores open at least a year, a 
key measure for retailers, dropped 5.1 percent.  Earlier this month, Home Depot also said that a review by 
outside counsel found that some options from 1981 to 2000 were 
backdated, with grant dates set earlier than the actual time 
the grants were approved.  Errors tied to the grants resulted in unrecorded expenses 
of about $200 million, the company said, adding that the review 
found no wrongdoing on the part of current management of the 
board. The company said in June that the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission had launched an inquiry into its stock 
option practices. The U.S. Attorney for the Southern District 
of New York has also requested information.  Home Depot shares are down more than 1 percent this year, 
but have been boosted lately by takeover speculation.  Also, the company has been aggressively buying back shares, 
announcing on December 14 a $3 billion repurchase that brought 
to $6.7 billion the amount he company has spent on buy backs 
this fiscal year.  Home Depot shares traded at $40.42 on Monday in premarket 
electronic trading after closing Friday at $39.88 on the New 
York Stock Exchange.