-- Mitsui, M'bishi eye cash for Sakhalin-2: sources
-- By  Mayumi Negishi
-- Mon Dec 18, 2006 2:02am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/18/businesspro-russia-mitsui-mitsubishi-dc-idUST4294320061218

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Japan's Mitsui & Co. Ltd. ( 8031.T ) and 
Mitsubishi Corp. ( 8058.T ) are seeking cash from Russia's state 
gas monopoly Gazprom ( GAZP.MM ) in exchange for part of their 
stakes in the $22 billion Sakhalin-2 project, sources close to 
the talks said on Monday. 

  The two Japanese partners, who together hold a 45 percent 
stake in Sakhalin-2, are in talks with majority stake holder 
Royal Dutch Shell ( RDSa.L ) about ceding control of the world's 
biggest LNG project to Russian ownership, the sources said.  "We're not all that sure we want a stake elsewhere," an 
industry source said about exchanging shares in the Sakhalin-2 
project for assets in other projects in Russia.  The Japanese stakeholders are also demanding a guarantee 
that Gazprom will deliver a steady supply of gas to Japanese 
electricity and gas companies, another source said.  Mitsui President Shoei Utsuda and Mitsubishi President 
Yorihiko Kojima met with Shell CEO Jeroen van der Veer in 
Moscow and Russian officials over the weekend to discuss the 
project, due to come onstream in 2008 and supply 9.6 million 
tonnes per year of gas to Japan, South Korea and North America.  Resource-poor Japan has been promised over half that 
supply.  Talks now hinge on how to value the project, the sources 
said, with Shell and Gazprom expected to reach an agreement 
within the week.  Spokesmen from Mitsui and Mitsubishi both said they could 
not disclose the details of the talks. Mitsui added that the 
talks were progressing constructively.  The operating company Sakhalin Energy is 55 percent-owned 
by Shell, with a Mitsui subsidiary holding a 25 percent stake 
and a Mitsubishi unit holding 20 percent.  Negotiations on the Sakhalin project turned bitter after 
Shell doubled its cost estimate for Sakhalin-2 last year, 
angering the Russian government, which will have to wait longer 
for royalties from the project.  The project has since been under attack from threats of 
sanctions, withdrawal of permits and damages claims.  Mitsui shares rose 2.7 percent at 1,730 yen at 0526 GMT, 
while Mitsubishi rose 1.3 percent to 2,275 yen, both 
outperforming the benchmark Nikkei average  .N225 , which rose 
0.25 percent.  (Additional reporting by Osamu Tsukimori)