-- Broadcom says SEC launches formal probe
-- 
-- Mon Dec 18, 2006 12:00pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/18/businesspro-broadcom-options-dc-idUSN182214420061218

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Wireless chip company Broadcom Corp. 
( BRCM.O ) said on Monday that federal securities regulators had 
launched a formal investigation of its stock option practices. 

  The company also said its board of directors had approved 
the findings of an internal probe by its own audit committee, 
including the conclusion that a number of its option grants 
between 1998 and 2003 were improperly dated.  Broadcom said in a statement that "between June 1998 and 
May 2003, its informal option grant procedures and processes 
lacked adequate controls, and that the company's documentation 
and record keeping were insufficient to verify many of the 
original measurement dates."  Broadcom said it was working to file amended annual reports 
for 2005 and an amended report for the first quarter of 2006, 
which will include adjustments to its prior financial 
statements.  U.S. authorities are investigating scores of companies for 
possible manipulation of stock option grants, which has turned 
into a scandal for corporations, particularly those in the 
technology sector.  While the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission had 
previously started an informal inquiry into Broadcom, a formal 
investigation is a more serious undertaking.  Broadcom said all staff who were "actively responsible" for 
picking option grant dates after the fact have left the 
company.  Broadcom, however, said that its audit committee determined 
that all options awarded to its founders and all current and 
former members of the board were properly granted. It added 
that its chairman, chief technical officer, and all outside 
directors "reasonably relied upon management and professionals 
regarding the correct option accounting treatment and grant 
approval process."  Since May 2003, Broadcom has complied with prevailing 
accounting rules and is not subject to restatement, it said.