-- Dutch minister leans toward Euronext/NYSE approval
-- By  Gilbert Kreijger
-- Mon Dec 18, 2006 5:50am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/18/businesspro-euronext-nyse-dutch-dc-idUSL1849584120061218

 

 AMSTERDAM  (Reuters) - Euronext ENXT.PA and NYSE Group 
NYX.N are close to obtaining approval from the Dutch Finance 
Ministry for a $14 billion merger plan to create the first 
transatlantic stock exchange. 

  "On the basis of currently available information ... I am 
minded to grant the requested declarations of no-objections and 
the Exchange License," Dutch Finance Minister Zalm said in a 
letter released by Euronext on Monday.  He said he was still waiting for some information to start 
a formal procedure. A finance ministry spokesman said a 
definite decision is expected in the second half of January.  Approval would remove one of the final hurdles to the 
creation of the first transatlantic stock exchange after a 
two-year industry battle to consolidate to cut costs and 
increase execution speed.  Nasdaq ( NDAQ.O ) last week launched a $5.3 billion hostile 
bid for the London Stock Exchange ( LSE.L ).  Euronext shareholders are due to vote on the plan to merge 
with NYSE on Tuesday in Amsterdam, but several shareholders 
have expressed concerns about U.S. regulatory spillover into 
European markets.  Franco-Belgian bank Dexia DEXI.PA said on Monday it would 
vote against the merger plan. The deal would go against 
Euronext's original vision of a pan-European bourse, and the 
United States is showing a regulatory hegemony, it said.  The Dutch finance minister said the declarations of 
no-objections would contain several restrictions and 
conditions, which, if violated, could lead to a withdrawal of 
the declarations.  The conditions address the prevention of spillover of U.S. 
laws and regulations and the safeguarding of supervision by 
local authorities on the securities exchanges in the 
Netherlands, among other issues.  "If the finance ministry withdraws its non-objection 
declaration, it would mean the merger should be annulled," a 
ministry spokesman said, adding that this was a final step 
after a procedure of consultations and instructions.  As Euronext is legally based in the Netherlands, it needs 
approval from the Dutch authorities for a third party to buy a 
stake in the company.  Shares in Euronext, which separately said it bought a 51 
percent stake in electronic trading platform SecFinex, were up 
0.1 percent at 91 euros by 1045 GMT in Paris after touching 
92.30 euros in early trade.  NYSE shareholders will vote on December 20 on the merger 
plan. They are widely expected to approve the deal, which is 
key to the U.S. group's strategy to diversify its product base 
and geographic reach.  (Additional reporting by  Niclas Mika )