-- Labor cost growth lower than expected
-- By  Alister Bull
-- Tue Dec 5, 2006 10:11am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/05/businesspro-usa-economy-productivity-dc-idUSN0420700920061205

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - U.S. worker productivity rose by a 
weaker-than-expected 0.2 percent in the third quarter, but unit 
labor costs grew less than initially thought in a sign of 
moderating inflation pressure, government data showed on 
Tuesday. 

  The data gave a brief lift to U.S. government bond prices 
and the dollar weakened, as dealers bet the data would ease the 
central bank's inflation concerns and make rate cuts next year 
more likely.  "The bad news is that productivity growth is smaller than 
expected, but the good news is that unit labor costs were 
revised lower than expected," said Christopher Low, chief 
economist at FTN Financial in New York.  "It's important that the Fed is well aware that the economy 
is slowing, but they need to know that the slowdown is taking 
pressure off inflation. Hopefully this is what they will take 
from this report," he said.  Nonfarm business productivity was forecast by analysts 
polled by Reuters to rise at a 0.4 percent annual rate. While 
it fell short of that mark, it was revised up from the flat 
reading initially reported by the Labor Department.  Productivity grew just 1.4 percent from the same quarter 
last year, the weakest year-on-year performance since the 
second quarter of 1997, when it expanded 1.3 percent.  Compensation per hour increased 2.6 percent, versus a 3.7 
percent rise initially reported in the third quarter. The 
milder compensation gain combined with the upward revision in 
productivity to restrain unit labor cost growth to 2.3 percent, 
an increase well under forecasts for a 3.3 percent rise and the 
3.8 percent gain first reported.  The Labor Department also announced it had revised down the 
year-on-year growth in unit labor costs to 2.9 percent in the 
third quarter from 5.3 percent, as it revised the second 
quarter's gain in unit labor costs down sharply.
  RATE HOPES  This news will be welcomed by the U.S. central bank as unit 
labor costs are seen as a gauge of inflation and profit 
pressures that interest rate policy-makers closely watch.  Fed officials worry that mounting labor costs may hinder a 
decline in inflation from levels they have said are too high, 
despite a slowdown in economic growth.  Fed policy-makers next meet on December 12 to review 
interest rates and investors think they will signal no change. 
But many also think will have to start cutting rates next year, 
in the face of a weakening economy.  "We're not in the camp that the Fed is going to ease but it 
definitely bolsters those who are really worried about growth," 
said Rick Klingman, head trader on the U.S. treasury desk at 
ABN AMRO in New York."  "One of the impediments of the Fed to actually reversing 
course was the labor cost picture. It's definitely a bullish 
number (for bonds)," he said.  The Fed in August halted a two-year campaign of lifting 
borrowing costs in gradual quarter percentage point steps and 
has since kept its overnight fed funds rate steady at 5.25 
percent, while warning that risks of higher inflation remain.  Separately, employment consulting firm Challenger, Gray & 
Christmas Inc. said on Tuesday planned U.S. layoffs rose 11 
percent in November to 76,773, led by job cuts in the 
automotive industry.  In another report, the International Council of Shopping 
Centers and UBS Securities said U.S. chain stores sales fell 
2.6 percent last week but were up 3.1 percent from a year ago.  While the economy appears to have downshifted further after 
a third quarter in which it expanded at a lackluster 2.2 
percent annual clip, a survey of small- and mid-sized business 
executives found they have grown more upbeat in recent months.  CEO trade group Vistage International said its CEO 
confidence index rose to 93.0 in the fourth quarter from a 
three-year low of 89.3 in the third quarter.