-- Blockbuster gives free rentals to Netflix clients
-- 
-- Tue Dec 5, 2006 2:00pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/05/businesspro-retail-blockbuster-dc-idUSN0529788120061205

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Blockbuster Inc BBI.N, the No. 1 
U.S. movie rental company, began offering free in-store rentals 
to subscribers of online rival Netflix Inc. ( NFLX.O ) on Tuesday 
as it tries to take market share from Netflix and reach its 
year-end subscriber goal. 

  Netflix subscribers can get one free rental at Blockbuster 
stores for each address label they bring in from their Netflix 
mailing envelopes.  The offer to Netflix subscribers, which runs until December 
21, comes after Blockbuster began allowing subscribers to its 
own online rental service to swap DVDs they received in the 
mail at Blockbuster stores.  The program, called Total Access, highlights the main 
difference between the two competitive services: Blockbuster 
has stores where consumers can immediately satisfy a desire for 
a particular movie.  Netflix boasts overnight delivery of DVDs to most of its 
5.7 million subscribers. Netflix said it will reach 6.3 million 
subscribers by year's end.  The two companies have spent hundreds of millions of 
dollars over the past two years trying to reach the growing 
online DVD rental market, which they believe numbers more than 
20 million subscribers, as the in-store rental business 
contracts.  Netflix spokesman Steve Swasey said the company was 
confident it would continue to grow and add market share 
despite Blockbuster's larger size and aggressive promotions.  "I think most folks know that if you get something free 
you're getting what you pay for," Swasey said. "The very reason 
for online DVD rental is that you don't have to go to the 
store. It's the convenience, selection and value."  Blockbuster also has forecast to analysts that it will add 
about 500,000 subscribers in the current quarter, to reach its 
year-end goal of 2 million total subscribers.  Wedbush Morgan analyst Michael Pachter said he doubted the 
promotion would have much impact on the success of Total 
Access.  "This isn't about subscribers. Subscribers don't matter," 
he said. "What matters is that Blockbuster is not likely to 
ever lose another customer to Netflix (as a result of Total 
Access). Ultimately you look at value for your monthly fee."  Shares of Blockbuster were down 2.16 percent, or 12 cents, 
at $5.43 on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares of Netflix were 
down 0.8 percent, or 23 cents, at $28.70 on Nasdaq on Tuesday.