-- Target seen hitting $95 billion in sales by 2010
-- By  Emily Kaiser
-- Tue Dec 5, 2006 1:59pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/05/businesspro-target-dc-idUSN0529201520061205

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Target Corp.'s ( TGT.N ) sales will 
nearly double to $95 billion by 2010, but it may need to look 
beyond its traditional big-city base and possibly overseas to 
sustain growth, consultants Retail Forward said. 

  The second-largest U.S. discount chain has stood up to 
larger rival Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) by stocking 
trendy-but-affordable merchandise that has made it a top 
destination for fashionable clothing and quirky kitchen gear.  Target's sales growth at stores open at least a year have 
outpaced Wal-Mart in 39 of the last 40 months, and it is 
expected to outperform in December as well.  Retail Forward said Target will likely operate 2,000 stores 
by 2010, up from nearly 1,500 now. Wal-Mart has more than 3,700 
U.S. stores.  Even at $95 billion in sales, Target would still trail well 
behind Wal-Mart, which is expected to reach $500 billion in 
sales by 2010, the consulting firm said. Target's sales were 
$51.27 billion in the fiscal year that ended in January 2006, 
while Wal-Mart's were $312.43 billion.  Retail Forward consultant Jennifer Halterman wrote in a 
report released this week that Target remains "steadfast" in 
its pursuit of U.S. expansion instead of international growth. 
"The question becomes, is there enough room to support Target's 
expansion goals domestically," she wrote.  She said apparel and accessory stores, drug stores, 
supermarkets and department stores should all be on guard and 
ready for increased competition from Target.  Halterman said Target has plenty of room to grow in 
existing markets through 2010, but it will likely need to look 
beyond its stronghold in the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan 
areas after that.  "An initial foray into Canada could be a good way to test 
the global waters," she wrote.
  COPYCATS ABOUND  In a telephone interview, Halterman said Target faces 
growing competition from department stores such as J.C. Penney 
Co Inc. ( JCP.N ), which have followed Target's lead in signing 
up designers to produce exclusive merchandise.  Target pioneered that strategy with designers such as 
Michael Graves, Isaac Mizrahi and Liz Lange. J.C. Penney 
recently launched a clothing line from Nicole Miller.  She said Target remains well ahead of the competition when 
it comes to creating buzz through cutting-edge marketing and 
savvy alliances with up-and-coming designers, and it looks set 
to maintain that lead this holiday season through a 
collaboration with Dutch designer Tord Boontje.  Boontje has designed a contemporary collection of holiday 
merchandise such as dinnerware for Target, and was also 
involved in marketing, advertising and product packaging.  Wal-Mart launched its first celebrity home decor line this 
holiday -- designed by event and wedding planner to the stars 
Colin Cowie -- but Halterman said Wal-Mart has done little to 
advertise it. Target, meanwhile, opened a lighting display in 
New York City's Union Square Park to promote its new line.  While Wal-Mart has grown by expanding its supercenters that 
carry a full line of groceries, Target has had more success 
with its smaller stores that sell only a limited selection of 
food such as milk and snacks. Halterman said Target probably 
won't abandon the supercenter format, but its smaller discount 
stores will be the main growth driver.  Target will need to keep experimenting to maintain its 
growth beyond 2010, and may need to add new categories, she 
said. Home decor and health and beauty care hold big potential, 
while new categories could include designer jewelry collections 
or perhaps gas stations selling environmentally-friendly fuel.  Target's shares are up about 6 percent in the year-to-date, 
outperforming Wal-Mart's, which are down 1 percent. Target's 
stock trades at 16.2 times analysts' profit forecasts for next 
year, compared with 14.4 times for Wal-Mart.