-- Service sector stronger than expected
-- By David McMahon
-- Tue Dec 5, 2006 11:54am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/05/businesspro-usa-economy-dc-idUSN0526739820061205

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Growth in the U.S. services sector 
accelerated unexpectedly in November and third-quarter labor 
costs grew more slowly than forecast, suggesting the economy 
may be weathering a manufacturing slowdown with wage-driven 
inflation coming under control. 

  Tuesday's service sector data from the Institute for Supply 
Management gave a mild boost to stocks and the dollar and 
pushed government bond prices lower. A stronger services 
sector, which makes up the bulk of the U.S. economy, would 
reduce chances the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates in 
coming months to boost the economy.  Other government data showed U.S. worker productivity rose 
0.2 percent in the third quarter, but unit labor costs grew 
less than initially thought, a sign of subdued inflation.  The ISM report helped offset the impact of a 4.7 percent 
slump in new orders at U.S. factories in October, the biggest 
drop in more than six years.  "The service sector is really what is holding the whole 
economy together and providing the impetus for growth," said 
Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Co. 
in New York. "To me it is in line with an economy that is 
slowing but still doing reasonably well."  Some analysts said the softer pace of growth in labor costs 
would take the pressure off the Fed, which has repeatedly 
signaled it could resume raising interest rates if inflation 
showed signs of accelerating.  "That is enormously reassuring to those people who were 
hoping we would have some kind of confirmation that inflation 
is going to slow down and enable, if you will, the Federal 
Reserve to ease," said Jason Bonanca, senior currency 
strategist at Credit Suisse in New York.
  SERVICES STRONG  The Institute for Supply Management's services index rose 
to 58.9 in November from 57.1 in October. The median forecast 
of Wall Street economists was for a decline to 56.0.  The data contrasted sharply with the ISM's report on 
factory activity last week, which showed the manufacturing 
sector contracted in November for the first time in 3-1/2 
years.  In August, the Fed halted a two-year campaign of lifting 
borrowing costs in gradual quarter-percentage-point steps. It 
has since kept its overnight fed funds rate steady at 5.25 
percent, while warning that risks of higher inflation remain.  Fed policy-makers next meet on December 12 to review 
interest rates and investors think they will signal no change. 
But many also think the Fed will have to start cutting rates 
next year in the face of a weakening economy.  Nonfarm business productivity was forecast by analysts 
polled by Reuters to rise at a 0.4 percent annual rate. While 
it fell short of that mark, it was revised up from the flat 
reading initially reported by the Labor Department.  Productivity grew just 1.4 percent from the same quarter 
last year, the weakest year-on-year performance since the 
second quarter of 1997, when it expanded 1.3 percent.  Compensation per hour increased 2.6 percent, versus a 3.7 
percent rise initially reported in the third quarter.  Separately, employment consulting firm Challenger, Gray & 
Christmas Inc. said on Tuesday planned U.S. layoffs rose 11 
percent in November to 76,773, led by job cuts in the 
automotive industry.  In another report, the International Council of Shopping 
Centers and UBS Securities said U.S. chain stores sales fell 
2.6 percent last week but were up 3.1 percent from a year ago.