-- Time Warner sees more Internet deals, CEO says
-- By  Kenneth Li
-- Tue Dec 5, 2006 6:36pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/05/businesspro-timewarner-dc-idUSN0532828620061205

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Time Warner Inc. ( TWX.N ) Chief 
Executive Richard Parsons said on Tuesday it was eyeing more 
Internet deals next year focusing on advertising technology, to 
bolster the transformation of its AOL Internet division. 

  Parsons said AOL was making progress after deciding in the 
summer to give away most of its services for free to boost 
online ad sales. AOL also stopped marketing its dial-up 
Internet service.  "We are looking for horizontal opportunities to strengthen 
our position in the advertising space," Parsons said at the 
Credit Suisse media and telecom conference in New York.  Time Warner shares have risen 24 percent since the 
announcement of AOL's strategy change on August 2. A $20 
billion stock buyback, which Parsons said is likely to be 
completed in the first half of 2007, has helped boost 
confidence in the stock.  Asked by the moderator if there were any "size limitations" 
to its potential acquisition targets, Parsons said, "No. Almost 
anything you could think of other than the really big 
established portals is within striking distance for us."  He declined to specify which companies it would consider. 
But he told Reuters in an interview last week that Time Warner 
was looking at so-called ad insertion technology companies that 
let companies place ads that are relevant to a particular 
viewer's tastes.  In November, the company announced a deal to buy financial 
news search company Relegence. In August, it said it had 
purchased GameDaily, a video game news and review site.  Time Warner also said it was unlikely to sell off its 
Internet access business in the United States, which it had 
done in its European regions.  "I think we've got quite a valuable annuity stream in our 
access business that I'm not sure some private equity player or 
some other access provider would pay for," he said. "From Time 
Warner's perspective, there is still some value that we can get 
out of the connections to homes for our other businesses"
  FORMAT WARS "UNFORTUNATE"  Separately, Parsons talked about its upcoming plans to 
begin selling movies that are downloaded to kiosks in Wal-Mart 
Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) which can then be transferred to DVDs.  Parsons also said the company was seeking a way to offer 
digital movies on a subscription basis. "We're looking at ways 
of working with (movie) studios to have some sort of 
subscription format that's electronically distributed through 
the existing windows."  Time Warner's movie studios have backed the two competing 
high-definition DVD technologies -- Toshiba Corp.'s ( 6502.T ) HD 
DVD and Sony Corp.'s ( 6758.T ) Blu-ray format.  "The format war is unfortunate," he said of the battle 
between Sony and Toshiba.  But Parsons poured cold water on Sony's hopes that building 
its Blu-ray technology into its just-launched PlayStation 3 
video game console would give it an edge in the technology 
fight.  "Do I think that the game console platform is really going 
to drive the conversion? I don't think so," he said. "People 
get those things to play games, not watch movies."