-- U.S. predicts bumper year in arms sales
-- By  Jim Wolf
-- Mon Dec 4, 2006 7:53pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/05/businesspro-aero-arms-summit-arms-sales-idUSN0419095320061205

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The U.S. government is on its way to 
brokering about $20 billion in arms sales in the fiscal year 
that began October 1, steady with last year's near-record 
total, the Pentagon official responsible for such sales said on 
Monday. 

  "We're forecasting in the $20 billion range" for fiscal 
2007, Air Force Lt. Gen. Jeffrey Kohler, director of the 
Defense Security Cooperation Agency, told the Reuters Aerospace 
and Defense Summit in Washington.  In fiscal 2006, which ended on September 30, foreign 
military sales notified to Congress reached $20.9 billion, 
nearly double the $10.6 billion the previous year.  Last year's total was second only to 1993, which topped $30 
billion, swollen by sales to the Middle East after the first 
Gulf War.  Regional security concerns tied to Iran and North Korea 
were helping drive current sales, Kohler said.  He said Saudi Arabia, for instance, was talking to the 
United States about shore-hugging littoral combat ships that 
could cost billions of dollars in coming years.  The ships were of particular interest to the Saudi Navy's 
Eastern Fleet "that would first confront Iranian aggression if 
there is any." The Eastern Fleet also was largely responsible 
for protecting Saudi oil infrastructure in the Gulf, Kohler 
said.  Such ships, costing some $220 million apiece, are designed 
to counter submarines, small surface attack craft and mines in 
heavily contested areas near shore. Different versions are 
being built for the U.S. Navy by teams led by Lockheed Martin 
Corp. ( LMT.N ) and General Dynamics Corp. ( GD.N ).  The United Arab Emirates also was considering purchases 
designed to boost its naval capabilities, missile defense and 
command and control, Kohler said.  Sales to Iraq, including armored personnel carriers, plus 
equipment for Afghan government forces would total about $3 
billion in fiscal 2007, about the same as last year, he said.  North Korea, which defied global pressure this year to 
test-fire missiles and carry out a nuclear test blast, is also 
spurring arms purchases, Kohler said.  Japan had been seeking to buy Patriot Advanced Capability-3 
missiles faster than its original plan, and the United States 
expects South Korea to follow suit, he said.  "We're hoping that will be in their next budget," Kohler 
said. South Korea needs extra Patriot missiles, which could 
cost $50 million to $300 million, to deal with "the threat from 
North Korea."  India, for its part, may be moving closer to becoming a 
U.S. arms client, Kohler said, citing among other things 
relationships he had built in as many as 11 meetings over time 
held with some of his Indian counterparts.  Last month, he wound up "probably the best visit I've had 
out there," thanks to those relationships, he said.  Kohler made clear the United States was balking at Taiwan's 
interest in buying up to 66 advanced Lockheed Martin Corp. F-16 
fighter aircraft until it follows through on a package of 
weapons it requested more than five years ago.  At issue is refusal by the Taiwan legislature, controlled 
by the political opposition, to purchase up to eight 
diesel-electric submarines, 12 P-3C Orion anti-submarine 
aircraft and Patriot anti-missile systems offered by President 
Bush in 2001.  "Until we see some movement on that, the U.S. government is 
reluctant to endorse an F-16 sale," Kohler said.  Taiwan has sought the F-16C/D fighter jets over a 
five-to-10-year period, in a deal that could be worth as much 
as $5.5 billion.