-- UPDATE 3-Disney CFO sees improvements in studios, parks
-- 
-- Tue Dec 5, 2006 4:51pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/05/disney-cfo-idUSN0531798920061205

 

  (Adds closing share price, details in paragraphs 2 and 3) 

  By  Gina Keating LOS ANGELES  Dec 5 (Reuters) - Walt Disney Co. ( DIS.N ) sees
improved margins at its theme parks and better profitability at
its film division in fiscal 2007, its chief financial officer
said on Tuesday.  Disney shares hit a new 52-week high in Tuesday trading,
rising more than 2 percent on the New York Stock Exchange as
CFO Tom Staggs said Disney was confident about fiscal 2007.  "We feel very good about how our business is positioned,"
Staggs, whose comments were monitored via Webcast, told a
Credit Suisse analyst conference in New York. "I think you are
going to see improvement in margins in theme parks ... (and)
continued improvement in profitability in (Walt Disney)
Studios.  He also said the company, whose fiscal year started Oct. 1,
expects the "Cars" DVD to sell as well as its mega-hit "The
Incredibles." The latter animated film, released in 2005, has
sold 16 million to 17 million DVD units domestically, a Disney
spokesman said.  The "Cars" DVD sales were expected to drive retail sales of
"Cars" merchandise to the same levels in fiscal 2007 as in the
prior fiscal year, or about $1 billion, of which Disney gets
royalties, Staggs said.  "That's a pretty strong result," he said.  The company was planning to invest "a little more" in its
theme parks in fiscal 2007 than last year, especially around
attractions derived from its Pixar animated films, he said.  While its theme parks face tough comparisons to takings
during last year's 50th anniversary promotions and Disney would
not make short-term predictions, Staggs said "customers are
looking pretty resilient from the data we have seen."  IPOD REVENUE STREAM  For its television business, Disney's ABC network sees
advance sales for its prime-time advertising rising in the
mid-single digit percentages from last year, he said.  The media networks division was also benefiting from a
strong performance in both viewership and advertising sales
from ESPN's Monday Night Football.  As for newer media strategies, Staggs said Disney would
raise its investment in video games to $350 million per year in
the next five years from last year's $100 million.  Disney, which in September began selling movie downloads
via Apple Computer Inc.'s ( AAPL.O ) iTunes store, expects to
reap $25 million for the first year of the offering.  Staggs warned analysts to keep that growing revenue stream
in perspective, pointing out that it compares to company
expectations of $3 billion in DVD revenue in fiscal 2007.  While the overall DVD market was expected to be "flattish"
in fiscal 2007, Disney was seeing strength in DVD sales for its
animated films, including the newly re-released "The Little
Mermaid," Staggs said.  The company expects to post total digital revenue from
downloads and online advertising and retail sales, not
including travel, of about $700 million in 2007, Staggs said.  Disney shares closed up 2.3 percent, or 76 cents, at $34.20
on Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange.
 (Additional reporting by  Kenneth Li  in New York)


