-- Homeowners Get Easy Money From Green Renovations: John F. Wasik
-- John F. Wasik
-- 2009-10-01T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-09-30/homeowners-get-easy-money-from-green-renovations-john-f-wasik.html

          
          
             Can you profit from being an eco-
investor?  
 There are really only two ways of doing it now. You can buy
a risky sector fund or stock and hold on to it for dear life
over the next few years. Or you can invest in your home.  
 Of the two, I prefer a home investment because the
incentives have never been better and there’s no market risk.
All the green funds got creamed last year.  
 Yet it’s unlikely your broker will tell you about the
multiple tax breaks available through state and  federal 
governments. Nor will he mention that eco-improvements will
lower your cost of living.  
 If you do this right, not only will you be cutting your
energy costs and greenhouse gases, but you can realize immediate
savings in energy costs. Solar panels, for example, will save
you money every year and have a steady rate of return that’s
almost guaranteed, depending on the state incentives.  
 As part of the U.S. stimulus plan, also known as the
 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act , there are a raft of
generous tax breaks for everything from replacing doors to
installing geothermal heating systems.  
 Whether you are contemplating a complete makeover or just
replacing a furnace, you have until the end of next year to put
in service a number of improvements to qualify for the federal
tax credits.  
 What You Can Do  
 Fixing up your home has never made so much economic sense.
Uncle Sam is subsidizing lots of green remodeling this year.  
 The Treasury will give you a tax credit of 30 percent of
the cost (a maximum of $1,500) for energy-efficient windows,
doors, insulation, conventional heating/cooling systems, water
heaters and biomass stoves.  
 As with any tax break, only certain types of improvements
qualify, although this is the most generous range of incentives
in recent memory. See www.energystar.gov/taxcredits for
specifics. Even if you rent or own a condo, apartment or co-op,
you can save on energy costs by buying Energy Star appliances.  
 Even better credits are available on geothermal heat pumps,
solar panels/heaters, small wind energy systems and fuel cells.
There’s no limit on the 30 percent write-off for these items
through 2016.  
 So if you purchase a $20,000 solar-electric system, you can
get federal credit for $6,000 that will knock the price down to
$14,000. And that’s before state tax breaks apply, so this is
not your final price.  
 Although  state programs  vary, there are additional
incentives for installation and actual purchase of the clean
power you generate.  
 Figuring a Payback  
 When doing the numbers on your home-improvement project,
you will need to see what your state is offering you to go green
and make a few assumptions.  
 Let’s say you want to install a 5,000-kilowatt solar
electric system on a full-sun, south-facing roof in  New Jersey ,
which has a generous alternative energy program. The retail
price is $38,000, but after a state rebate of $8,750 and $8,775
federal credit, your net price is $20,475.  
 Since the state will compensate you for the solar power you
generate, you will receive renewable energy credits once you
produce at least 1,000 kilowatt hours of electricity.  
 According to a payback analysis at www.thesolarcenter.com,
you will receive $2,750 in annual state energy credits while
paring about $1,000 in electricity costs for a saving of $3,845.  
 Know Your Energy  
 If power rates drop, then the payback will be less
generous. One reasonable prediction, though, is that climate-
change legislation will penalize fossil-fuel power producers and
force their rates higher, so it also pays to know if your
electricity is generated by nuclear, coal, gas or hydroelectric.  
 Another consideration is the cost of solar equipment, which
has been dropping, so that may also shorten your payback time.  
 No matter which course you choose, I’m generally optimistic
about the future of investing in what I call eco-tech, a
category that includes clean power, energy efficiency, green
buildings, biofuels and nanotechnology.  
 As the nation’s largest venture-capital entity, the Obama
administration has provided more than $37 billion in seed money
for numerous projects in alternative energy, clean fuels and
electric vehicles through the stimulus plan. That means the cost
of these products will come down as they are mass-produced.  
 Few would dispute that eco-tech will gain even more
traction as the United Nations  Climate Conference  convenes in
December and carbon-trading exchanges are established.  
 No matter which eco-technologies win out, one concept won’t
change: If you have a chance to reduce your living costs, why
not do it now?  
 Global climate-change solutions will require time, capital
and mass political acceptance. Paybacks on your home
improvements will materialize at a much less glacial pace.  
 ( John F. Wasik , author of “The Audacity of Help: Obama’s
Economic Plan and the Remaking of America,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John F. Wasik in Chicago at 
 jwasik@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        