-- Ex-Plant Worker Shuster Pleads Guilty in Trading Case
-- David Glovin
-- 2006-10-23T20:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-10-23/ex-plant-worker-shuster-pleads-guilty-in-trading-case-update1-.html

          
          
             A former worker at a  Wisconsin 
printing plant pleaded guilty to charges that he leaked the
names of stocks mentioned in Business Week before the magazine
was mailed out.  
 Nickolaus Shuster, who worked at Quad Graphics Inc. in
Sussex, Wisconsin, told a judge today in  Manhattan  federal court
that he tipped two other people, whom he didn't name, to the
names of the stocks that were to be favorably mentioned in the
Inside Wall Street column.  
 ``I would steal pre-publication copies of Business Week and
call these two people and relay to them the contents of the
Inside Wall Street columns,'' Shuster, 25, told U.S. Magistrate
Judge Debra Freeman. Shuster, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy
and securities fraud, will be sentenced in January.  
 The guilty plea is the third in what prosecutors said was a
three-prong conspiracy involving two ex-employees at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Eugene Plotkin and David Pajcin.  
 In Wisconsin, Shuster stole advance copies of Business Week
for Plotkin and Pajcin, prosecutors said. In  New York , former
Merrill Lynch & Co. mergers analyst Stanislav Shpigelman, who
pleaded guilty in July, leaked secret information about a
pending deal to the pair, authorities said.  
 In Newark,  New Jersey ,  Jason Smith , a mailman sitting on a
grand jury, tipped Pajcin and Plotkin to details of a
confidential U.S. probe of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. accounting,
prosecutors said. Smith pleaded guilty in August.  
 ``I knew what I was doing was wrong,'' Shuster said.  
 Union Square  
 Shuster told Freeman that, during an October 2004 meeting
in the  Union Square  section of Manhattan, his two conspirators
asked him to travel to Wisconsin and get a job at the Business
Week plant.  
 In January 2005, one of Shuster's conspirators bought 3,500
shares of Arbitron Inc., the biggest radio-ratings supplier in
the U.S., after learning of a forthcoming mention in the column,
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Benjamin Lawsky  said in court.  
 Shuster agreed to forfeit $20,000 paid to him as part of
the scheme. The judge said Shuster, who previously lived in New
Jersey, has been cooperating with prosecutors. Charges are
pending against a second printing-plant worker, Juan Renteria,
along with Plotkin.  
 Pajcin has been cooperating with investigators.  
 New York-based Merrill Lynch is a passive, minority
investor in Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .  
 The case is U.S. v. Shuster, 06-cr-389, Southern District
of New York.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin at the federal courthouse in New York at
   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        