-- State Farm close to settling Katrina suits
-- 
-- Tue Jan 9, 2007 3:43am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/09/businesspro-statefarm-katrina-dc-idUSN0943025720070109

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - State Farm, the largest U.S. home 
insurer, said it is close to settling hundreds of lawsuits over 
its payments for homes wrecked by Hurricane Katrina along the 
Mississippi Gulf Coast. 

  A company spokesman confirmed Tuesday's New York Times 
report which cited lawyers briefed on the talks but would not 
provide additional comment.  The paper said the settlement of 639 lawsuits for $80 
million could be the first step in resolving a legal battle 
between homeowners and their insurance companies that has 
threatened to drag on for years.  State Farm has agreed to review and possibly increase 
payments to as many as 35,000 additional homeowners, the NYT 
reported, adding that the homeowners received a few thousand 
dollars for homes that suffered major damage or were destroyed.  State Farm would provide an average of about $125,000 to 
homeowners who filed lawsuits, though payments could range from 
$2,000 to about $2 million, the newspaper reported.  Under the terms of the deal, State Farm would pay at least 
$50 million for claims that were previously closed, and some 
lawyers estimate the cost for the company could run into the 
hundreds of millions of dollars, the paper said.  A State Farm spokesman told the NYT that the insurer had 
been in settlement talks, but said a final agreement had not 
yet been reached.  A similar deal with other insurers could lead to an 
estimated 100,000 other closed claims being re-examined, the 
paper cited lawyers briefed on the talks as saying.  The talks do not apply to homeowners in New Orleans and the 
rest of Louisiana, the paper said.  A federal judge in late December sent back to Mississippi 
state court a lawsuit demanding that insurers pay flood damages 
to thousands of Hurricane Katrina victims, increasing the 
chances of a ruling against the companies.  The insurers, including Allstate Corp ( ALL.N ), State Farm 
and Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., claimed that flood damages 
were excluded from their policies and were covered under 
federal flood insurance.  Nationwide Mutual is the parent of Nationwide Financial 
Services Inc. NFS.N