-- Big 3 see flat U.S. auto market
-- By  Kevin Krolicki
-- Tue Jan 9, 2007 1:36pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/09/businesspro-autoshow-economists-dc-idUSN0948494820070109

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Economists for the Detroit-based U.S. 
automakers on Tuesday detailed their forecasts for flat to 
slightly weaker U.S. vehicle sales in 2007, accompanied by 
declining prices for key commodity prices and oil. 

  The chief forecasters for General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ), Ford 
Motor Co.( F.N ) and DaimlerChrysler AG DCXGn.DE agreed the 
U.S. economy would slow this year, but argued for a number of 
emerging trends that could provide relief to the battered U.S. 
auto industry.  Representatives for all the traditional Big Three agreed 
that prices for key auto-related commodities had peaked and 
would decline, calling the end to a trend that had pressured 
the manufacturers and suppliers throughout last year.  The Detroit automakers also offered forecasts for vehicle 
sales that remain higher than the most cautious Wall Street and 
industry projections.  U.S. light vehicle sales in 2006 totaled 16.55 million, a 
decline of 2.2 percent. That does not include big trucks.  Ford forecast U.S. light vehicle demand of 16.4 million 
units in 2007, or 16.8 million units including larger trucks. 
DaimlerChrysler forecast sales of 16.5 million cars and light 
trucks, or 17 million units including bigger trucks.  GM forecast sales of 17 million units on a combined basis 
and declined to break out its component forecasts.  GM chief economist Mustafa Mohatarem said he expected oil 
prices would drop to near $40 per barrel this year as new 
supplies begin to hit the market and the U.S. economy slows.  DaimlerChrysler chief economist Van Jolissaint said he 
expected that other commodity prices would also trend lower.  "Except for nickel and perhaps steel, we think commodity 
prices have perhaps peaked," Jolissaint said.  Nickel prices, he said, could remain supported by demand 
for the current generation of nickel-metal batteries driving 
hybrid vehicles.  Ford's chief economist Ellen Hughes-Cromwick forecast U.S. 
light vehicle sales would slip to 16.4 million units in 2007, 
down from nearly 16.6 million last year.  But Hughes-Cromwick also said she expected gasoline prices 
and interest rates to decline and auto sales to be sheltered 
from a continued shakeout in the U.S. housing market, where a 
squeeze on home equity loans may hit consumer spending.  "I don't think we're at the end of this (housing) 
downturn," she said. "I think there's a lot of speculative 
activity that has to get washed out of the market, and there 
are some households that are on the edge."  But she added that U.S. auto sales have not mirrored 
housing indicators such as mortgage "cashouts" since 2002, and 
said she expected that such "decoupling" would continue. "I 
don't think there's a heck of a lot of spillover," she said.  Hughes-Cromwick, who expects U.S. GDP growth of between 2 
percent and 2.5 percent in 2007, said she expected the Fed 
would cut its target funds rate to 4.75 percent as evidence 
mounts that inflation is contained.  "That will help the overall pace of economic growth, 
especially as we get to the latter half of the year," she said.  Other forecasters have suggested U.S. light vehicle sales 
could drop as 3 percent or more to 16 million units in 2007.  In a note for clients on Tuesday, Calyon Securities analyst 
Joseph Amaturo said he expected annual sales of just 16 million 
units this year.  A decline in sales to that level, he said, "would have a 
pronounced negative impact on...the Big Three as well as some 
suppliers."