-- Shutterfly chairman quits, attacks Sarbanes-Oxley
-- By  Eric Auchard
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 7:23pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/09/businesspro-shutterfly-clark-dc-idUSN0841295220070109

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Online photo site Shutterfly Inc. 
( SFLY.O ) said on Monday that Chairman Jim Clark, co-founder of 
Web pioneer Netscape Communications, had resigned, saying 
securities regulations had "gone too far." 

  In a letter to management released in a regulatory filing, 
the Silicon Valley veteran said he was resigning from the board 
both because the company has matured from a technology 
developer into a manufacturer and due to constraints imposed on 
major shareholders by the Sarbanes-Oxley securities law.  Shutterfly made an initial public offering of shares in 
September, and Clark held roughly 30 percent of the outstanding 
shares following the IPO, according to the shareholder 
prospectus. Shutterfly shares are trading down 4 percent from 
its initial offering price of $15.  "Sarbox (Sarbanes-Oxley) dictates that I not chair any 
committee due to the size of my holdings, not be on the 
compensation committee because of the loan I once made to the 
company, not be on the governance committee," Clark wrote.  "It even dictates that some other board member must carry 
out the perfunctory duties of the chairman," he wrote in a 
letter dated January 1. "What's left is liability and 
constraints on stock transactions, neither of which excite me."  Clark is echoing a chorus of Silicon Valley critics of 
Sarbanes-Oxley law who argue that regulations introduced after 
the accounting scandals at Enron and World Com have discouraged 
venture-backed companies from going public on U.S. markets.  Shutterfly was founded in 1999 and is based in Redwood 
City, California. The company competes in the online photo 
finishing market with sites run by Eastman Kodak Co. EK.N, 
Hewlett-Packard Co. ( HPQ.N ) and a host of others, including 
retailers Wal-Mart Stores ( WMT.N ) and Best Buy Co. ( BBY.N ).  "As Shutterfly's original investor and chairman of the 
board, Jim has helped guide Shutterfly from its original 
concept as a startup to a successful IPO," Shutterfly Chief 
Executive Jeffrey Housenbold said in a statement. "We wish him 
well in his future endeavors."  Clark, a veteran founder of Silicon Valley start-ups for 25 
years, is the father-in-law of Chad Hurley, the co-founder and 
chief executive of video-sharing sensation YouTube, which late 
last year was acquired by Google Inc. ( GOOG.O ).  "As a technologist, I feel there is little that I can offer 
to guide what has become a manufacturing company," he wrote.  "It seems pretty clear to me that lawmakers have gone too 
far in considering a large shareholder to be inappropriate in 
the roles, but it is equally clear that I have no ability to 
change this in the near term," Clark's letter stated.