-- Wachovia unit to buy European Credit Management
-- By Jonathan Stempel and  Jeffrey Goldfarb
-- Tue Jan 9, 2007 4:58pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/09/businesspro-wachovia-europeancredit-dc-idUSL0926659720070109

 

 WASHINGTON/LONDON  (Reuters) - Wachovia Corp WB.N. said on 
Tuesday that its Evergreen Investments unit will buy a majority 
stake in London-based European Credit Management Ltd. for an 
undisclosed price, adding about 20 billion euros ($26 billion) 
of fixed-income assets under management. 

  The purchase will give Boston-based Evergreen oversight of 
more than $280 billion of assets. Wachovia, the No. 4 U.S. 
bank, said it hoped to benefit from pension funds's growing 
demand for fixed-income investments. Evergreen fixed-income 
managers in London already oversee $17 billion, it said.  "The world is awash in liquidity right now, searching for a 
home," said David Carroll, head of Wachovia's capital 
management unit, in an interview. "At the same time, there is 
more and more demand for certainty about how pension funds will 
meet their obligations."  ECM's employees and strategic shareholders will retain a 30 
percent equity stake in their closely held firm. ECM earned 
17.2 million pounds in the year ended April 30, 2006, and 
employs more than 140 people, Wachovia said.  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Wachovia said it expects 
the purchase will not affect earnings per share in 2007. It 
expects a closing this quarter, pending regulatory approval.  "We view the announcement as a net positive," wrote Kevin 
Fitzsimmons, a Sandler O'Neill & Partners LP analyst. "The deal 
allows Evergreen to expand in the London fixed-income market to 
a degree that would likely have taken five years or so to 
achieve organically." Fitzsimmons rates Wachovia "buy."  Wachovia has been trying to grow in Europe. It is expanding 
in fixed income after a strong year for stocks in many markets.  Founded in 1999, ECM mainly invests in "single-A" and 
"triple-B" investment-grade credits, but has also traded in the 
high-yield and leveraged loan markets.  Wachovia said ECM gives it access to client relationships 
in 40 countries and a distribution network in nine, and a 
specialty in medium-term notes.  ECM management, including Chief Executive Steven Blakey and 
Chief Investment Officer Stephen Zinser, will stay on, Wachovia 
said.  Carroll said Wachovia will consider more asset management 
acquisitions, including specialists in large-capitalization, 
"growth" companies.  Wachovia was in 2006 considered a finalist to buy the MFS 
mutual fund business from Sun Life Financial Inc. before the 
Canadian company took it off the market.  Wachovia shares closed down 7 cents at $56.51 on the New 
York Stock Exchange.