-- Big airlines get boost from jet fuel drop
-- By  Chris Reiter
-- Tue Jan 9, 2007 3:39pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/09/businesspro-airlines-fuel-dc-idUSN0918102020070109

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Jet fuel prices have fallen to their 
lowest levels in a year and a half, providing a welcome boost 
to U.S. airlines, particularly the big ones that were slow and 
cautious in hedging their bets. 

  But companies like Southwest Airlines Co. ( LUV.N ) and 
Alaska Air Group Inc. ( ALK.N ) -- which hedged more aggressively 
against rising oil prices -- stand to benefit less than 
American Airlines, United Airlines and other major carriers, 
which did not.  These bigger airlines haven't locked in prices with 
long-term hedges, which means their fuel costs are closely tied 
to market shifts.  Alaska Air, for example, has hedged 50 percent of its 
first-quarter fuel needs at a price of $58.78 a barrel. That is 
slightly above the current price of $55.60 CLc1, which means 
it is effectively inflating its fuel bill.  "Any of the airlines that didn't hedge that much are going 
to be the airlines that do well," said Helane Becker, an 
analyst with Benchmark Co. "Most of the bigger airlines didn't 
hedge that much."  Still, leading U.S. discount carrier Southwest Airlines has 
proven that long-term hedging can be a formidable advantage, 
and any benefits from falling fuel prices could be quickly 
reversed, if prices spike again.  But the lower fuel prices are broadly expected to stick. 
The welcome decline comes as the U.S. airline industry emerges 
from a long slump following the airborne attacks of September 
11, 2001. Cost cuts, resurgent demand and fare increases have 
greatly improved the industry's financial prospects.  Calyon Securities analyst Ray Neidl expects the industry to 
post $6 billion in profits in 2007 after posting $2.3 billion 
in profits last year -- its first profitable year since 2000. 
He said the estimate doesn't assume falling fuel prices.  With the most bullish outlook for some time, many of the 
sector's stocks are breaking multi-year highs. The Amex airline 
index  .XAL  is up 9 percent from a year ago, while shares of 
American Airlines parent AMR Corp. AMR.N and Continental 
Airlines CAL.N are trading at their highest since August 
2001.  Shares of United Airlines parent UAL Corp. UAUA.O are 
trading at their highest level since relisting after emerging 
from bankruptcy in early February 2006.  Southwest, which stands to benefit less from lower oil 
prices, is the industry laggard, down 32 percent from its 
all-time high in December 2000.  The airline industry is highly exposed to jet fuel prices, 
which vie with labor as its largest expense. A penny change in 
the price of jet fuel costs the industry about $190 million 
annually, according to lobby group the Air Transport 
Association.  Jet fuel JET-USG has dipped below $1.60 a gallon, falling 
to its lowest level since July 2005, after topping $2.25 this 
summer, said Ben Brockwell, editor of Oil Price Information 
Service's jet fuel report.  And the price is expected to stay low. "At this point, the 
prices are likely to remain flat to down," said Jason Schenker, 
an economist at Wachovia Bank in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
"Technical supports remain bearish."  While unseasonably warm weather in the U.S. Northeast has 
weakened oil prices, airlines can also claim some 
responsibility for the drop in jet fuel prices.  Turning off engines more often on the ground, ascending to 
cruising altitude more quickly, and installing fuel-saving wing 
tips have led to a decline in jet fuel demand.  "There's been a lot of downward pressure from increased 
efficiency of usage," said Wachovia's Schenker.  Through October (the latest data available), the U.S. 
airline industry consumed 3.4 percent less fuel than over the 
same period in the previous year, according to data from the 
U.S. Energy Information Administration.