-- Investors dump RIM as Apple launches iPhone
-- By Wojtek Dabrowski
-- Tue Jan 9, 2007 4:26pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/09/businesspro-rim-apple-stock-dc-idUSN0918026220070109

 

 TORONTO  (Reuters) - Investors dumped shares of BlackBerry 
maker Research In Motion Ltd. RIM.TORIMM.O on Tuesday, 
spooked by the entry of Apple Computer Inc.'s ( AAPL.O ) iPhone 
into the fiercely contested smartphone market. 

  RIM, whose shares have soared on the success of its 
consumer-aimed and multimedia-heavy BlackBerry Pearl handheld 
e-mail device, was down C$12.82, or 7.7 percent, at C$154.01 on 
the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock also shed $11.16, or 
about 7.9 percent, to $131.00 on Nasdaq.  Research Capital analyst Nick Agostino said investors were 
reacting to the potential for a tough battle for high-end 
consumers between Apple and the smartphone makers such as RIM, 
Nokia ( NOK.N ), Motorola MOT.N and Palm PALM.O.  "Obviously, there is that level of uncertainty," Agostino 
said. "We won't find out for another six months what real 
impact (the iPhone) is going to have in the channels."  RIM has tied the future of its growth in part to breaking 
into the large and lucrative retail market to diversify its 
business from the segment that caters only to large 
corporations and other professional users.  To that end, it launched the music-playing and photo-taking 
Pearl. Rumors of two more RIM devices in the same vein -- the 
Indigo and the Crimson -- are swirling on fan Web sites and 
among analysts.  But the launch of the iPhone could turn consumer-market 
expansion plans into a tough slog for Waterloo, Ontario-based 
RIM, some analysts say.  "The iPhone will be a stiff competitor in terms of the 
consumer marketplace," said Lawrence Harris, an analyst at 
Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., adding that Apple's move has the 
potential to shake RIM's often volatile share price.  "Apple is going to certainly go after the high-end consumer 
portion of the market and a lot of investors had been assuming 
that Research In Motion would be successful ... in moving 
beyond their core business customers and into the consumer 
marketplace."  RIM wasn't alone in retreating on Tuesday. Palm, which 
makes the Treo line of smartphones, fell 84 cents, or 5.7 
percent, to $13.92 on Nasdaq.  Mobile phone giant Nokia lost 26 cents to $19.38 in New 
York, and Motorola shed 34 cents to $18.26.  While competition appears poised for a spike, both Agostino 
and Harris pointed to the pricing of the iPhone -- at $499 for 
the four-gigabyte device -- as high.  "If you're targeting the consumer market specifically, then 
obviously consumers tend to be more price sensitive," Agostino 
said. "I've got to question the early-day pricing strategy 
here."  While smartphones like RIM's ubiquitous BlackBerry have 
gained widespread acceptance among corporate executives -- 
lawyers, doctors and other professionals -- it has yet to 
breach the broad acceptance enjoyed by cheaper mobile phones 
that don't offer e-mail services.  Cost -- even with RIM's Pearl, which launched at $199 -- 
has been an often-cited reason.  Harris suggested Apple may be pricing high to try to ensure 
that it doesn't hurt sales of its digital music player, the 
iPod.  ($1=1.18 Canadian)