-- CES-Yahoo redesigns Web search to run on mobile phones
-- 
-- Mon Jan 8, 2007 9:12pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/09/electronics-show-yahoo-idUSN0840748620070109

 

  (For more stories from the Las Vegas Consumer Electronics Show
go to
 here ) 

  By  Eric Auchard SAN FRANCISCO  Jan 8 (Reuters) - Yahoo Inc. ( YHOO.O )
unveiled a slew of deals with mobile phone handset makers and
network operators to feature its Web search services on tens of
millions of phones worldwide, the company said on Monday.  In a flurry of announcements with major electronics makers,
officials of the Internet media company introduced software
that mobile phone users can download themselves at a news
conference at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.  Yahoo said it had developed oneSearch, a new mobile search
service that give phone users instant answers. OneSearch
redesigns search to offer potential answers as immediate search
results instead of how computer-based Web search returns lists
of search results.  Yahoo is seeking to outpace archrival Google Inc. ( GOOG.O ),
which dominates the market for computer Web search, by being
the fastest to win over consumers to its mobile phone Web
search and related advertising system. Yahoo will offer mobile
search software directly to phone users to download as well.  The company unveiled new or expanded partnerships with
handset makers Motorola Inc. MOT.N, Nokia ( NOK1V.HE ), Samsung
Electronics Co. ( 005930.KS ), and Research In Motion Ltd.
RIM.TO to include the new software on some of their phones.  A year ago at the same industry trade show, Yahoo unveiled
relationships with Nokia and Motorola to pre-install Yahoo
software on several million mobile handsets as part of its "Go"
effort to expand beyond computer-based Web search onto other
devices including mobile phones and television sets.  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo said it was working with
Sony Corp. ( 6758.T ) to surf Web-based video programming with a
remote control on Sony Bravia TV sets, which come ready to run
Internet video.  Nokia agreed to a follow-on deal that will put Yahoo
services on Nokia's "Series 40" line of mobile phones -- the
most widely available line of Nokia phones in the world,
extending a year-old deal on some advanced "Series 60" models.  Samsung, the world's No. 3 mobile phone maker, agreed to
distribute and pre-load services on "millions" of mobile phones
available in 60 countries of the world.  Research in Motion expanded an existing deal to encourage
millions of Blackberry users to download Yahoo Go for Mobile
2.0 onto their e-mail machines. The agreement calls for tighter
integration between Yahoo and Blackberries by mid-2007.  Yahoo extended a deal with 3 Group, a unit of Hong Kong's
Hutchison Whampoa ( 0013.HK ) that operates advanced mobile
networks in countries across Europe, in which Yahoo Go for
Mobile and oneSearch will be offered to customers in Britain,
Ireland, Sweden and Denmark. More markets will follow in coming
months, the two companies said.  Yahoo said it had agreed to an exclusive partnership with
Norway's Opera Software ( OPERA.OL ) to make Yahoo the provider
of Web search on millions of mobile phones in some 100
countries worldwide. While little known in the United States,
Opera is popular among mobile enthusiasts internationally. The
news sent Opera shares up 3.1 percent in Oslo market trading.  Shares of Yahoo inched up 18 cents to $27.92 on Nasdaq.
 (Additional reporting by  Sinead Carew  in Las Vegas)


