-- Senate Panel Backs GE Rolls-Royce Engine, Boeing
-- Tony Capaccio
-- 2007-05-24T23:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-24/senate-panel-backs-ge-rolls-royce-engine-boeing-update1-.html

          
          
             The Senate Armed Services Committee
for the second year in a row rejected a Defense Department
request to terminate a backup engine made by  General Electric
Co. (GE)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  for the  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
Joint Strike Fighter program, Senate aides said.  
 In a victory for Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and San Diego-based Science Applications International Corp., the committee
also approved the Army's $3.7 billion request for the Future
Combat Systems program of armored vehicles and drones, adding
$115 million to the Pentagon's request, the aides said, speaking
on condition of anonymity.. The House approved a cut of $867
million, or about 23 percent, the largest congressional cut ever
for the Army's No. 1 weapons program.  
 The Senate committee action came during private
consideration today of a $648 billion  defense budget  for the
fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. The overall budget includes $503.8
billion in discretionary spending that undergoes annual review,
an additional $2.9 billion in automatic, mandatory spending and
$141 billion in separate spending for Iraq and Afghanistan. The
committee plans to outline its total defense package tomorrow.  
 The Senate panel also decided to continue the Army's $3.6
billion Armed Reconnaissance Helicopter managed by  Textron
Inc. (TXT) 's Forth Worth, Texas-based Bell Helicopter unit, the aides
said.  
 The House terminated the program, citing concerns that the
cost of the program's development phase has increased to more
than $300 million from $210 million and reached a price of
almost $10 million per aircraft from $5.2 million, Army
officials have said.  
 Vote Next Month  
 The Senate committee's budget will be voted on by the
entire Senate next month and then reconciled in negotiations
with the House before final passage.  
 The Senate committee voted to add $480 million to the Joint
Strike Fighter program, the aides said. The House last week
approved a budget that also restored the second engine, but it
shifted $480 million within the fighter program rather than
adding to the overall request.  
 The Pentagon wants to kill the engine to save money.  Pratt
& Whitney , a unit of Hartford, Connecticut-based  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) , is developing the fighter's primary engine.  
 The panel adopted an amendment by Democratic senators  Ted Kennedy  of  Massachusetts  and Evan Bayh of Indiana and Republican
Senator John Warner of Virginia that directs the Pentagon to
provide the funding necessary to develop and produce the second
engine, the aides said.  
 Development Contract  
 GE, the world's largest aircraft-engine maker, and Rolls-Royce, the second-largest, were awarded a $2.4 billion engine-development contract in August 2005 that included producing 14
test models with the first production model expected in 2012.
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE was responsible for 60 percent
of the contract; London-based Rolls-Royce Group had 40 percent.  
 General Electric has a military engine facility in Lynn,
Massachusetts; Rolls Royce has a facility in Indianapolis.
Warner last year led the Senate's rejection of the Pentagon
request, citing the price advantages he saw when he was Navy
secretary of maintaining two engines in aircraft programs.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Forsythe at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        