-- Swiss Regulator Searches Deutsche Bank, ZKB in Probe
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2007-05-24T15:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-05-24/swiss-regulator-searches-deutsche-bank-zkb-in-probe-update1-.html

          
          
             Switzerland 's banking regulator
searched the Zurich offices of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Europe 's largest
securities firm, and two local banks this week as part of a probe
into the sale of options to foreign investors.  
 ``We have conducted onsite investigations'' at the three
banks, Eveline Oehrli, a spokeswoman for the Bern-based Swiss
Banking Commission, said today.  
 Deutsche Bank, Zuercher Kantonalbank and Neue Zuercher Bank
are being scrutinized for possible breaches of disclosure rules
while trading shares and options of  Sulzer AG (SUN) , a Swiss pump
maker, Oehrli said. ZKB Chief Executive Officer Hans Voegeli and
two other managers quit this month after Sulzer, its customer,
complained that the state-controlled bank sold derivatives to
rivals that enabled them to secretly build up a stake.  
 ``We fully support the banking commission in its
investigation,'' said Klaus Winker, a spokesman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank. He declined to comment further. Calls to the
press offices of ZKB and NZB in Zurich weren't immediately
returned.  
 While ZKB didn't break any laws, its traders ignored an
instruction from bank executives that ``Sulzer shouldn't become
the object of an unfriendly takeover,'' CEO Voegeli said May 7
when he announced his resignation. ``The derivatives team broke
that directive.''  
 ZKB, Switzerland's third-largest bank, is reviewing its
trading policies and this month said it has halted the sale of
options in hostile takeovers. Chairman Urs Oberholzer plans to
replace the bank's three-member governing body with a full-time
president and a board, Bilanz reported today without saying where
it got the information.  
 Banking commission staff searched the three banks with the
help of independent auditors, Oehrli said. ``We want to pursue
this case efficiently,'' she added.  
 Russian billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg  and Austrian investors
Georg Stumpf and Ronny Pecik bought a one-third stake in Sulzer
last month without the company's knowledge. Pecik and Stumpf used
the same strategy to win control of Unaxis Holding AG, change the
Swiss technology company's management and rename it as OC
Oerlikon Corp.  
 To contact the reporter of this story:
Jacob Greber in Zurich at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Adrian Cox at 
 acox2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        