-- Carlsberg Will Buy Stake in Vietnamese Brewer Habeco
-- Meera Bhatia
-- 2008-04-23T12:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-23/carlsberg-will-buy-stake-in-vietnamese-brewer-habeco-update1-.html

          
          
             Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the largest Danish
brewer, will buy a 16 percent stake in Habeco for about $115.6
million to solidify its partnership with the Vietnamese beermaker.  
 The price equates to about $3.10 per share, the Valby,
Denmark-based company said today in a statement. Carlsberg is
becoming a stockholder after Habeco, whose full name is Hanoi
Beer-Alcohol-Beverages Corp., went public last month.  
 Carlsberg and Habeco set up a joint venture last year to
run a brewery in the southern part of Vietnam, whose beer market
is set to expand by about 8 percent a year, according to the
statement. The Danish beermaker and western European competitors
have expanded in  emerging markets  to capitalize on growth that's
stronger than at home.  
 The purchase is ``a crucial step for our businesses in
Vietnam,'' Jesper Madsen, the vice president who heads
Carlsberg's Asian activities, said in the statement.  
 The brewer, which has operated in Vietnam since 1993,
boosted its Asian sales by 25 percent in volume terms last year,
compared with a 1 percent gain in western Europe. Habeco is the
market leader in northern Vietnam, the company said today.  
 Habeco sold shares as Vietnam's government disposes of
stakes in state-owned companies after joining the World Trade
Organization last year. The state gave approval last month for a
planned share sale by state-owned Mekong Housing Bank.  
 Carlsberg is buying shares that Hanoi-based Habeco was
unable to sell in an initial public offering on March 27. The
government raised 198.5 billion dong ($12.3 million) from the
share sale, about 11 percent of the proceeds anticipated by the
brewer. Investors bid for 4 million of the 34.8 million shares
on offer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at   k.campbell@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        