-- French Regulator Faces Appeal of Sacyr's Eiffage Sale
-- Heather Smith
-- 2008-04-23T15:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-04-23/french-regulator-faces-appeal-of-sacyr-s-eiffage-sale-update1-.html

          
          
             The French  market  regulator's
decision to approve  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) 's sale of its stake in
 Eiffage SA (FGR) , which ended a yearlong takeover fight between the
builders, will be challenged by minority shareholder group ADAM.  
 The  Autorite des Marches Financiers  decision to drop its
demand that Sacyr make an offer for Eiffage was ``completely
illegal,'' said Colette Neuville, president of ADAM, a
shareholder-activist group based in Chartres,  France .  
 The AMF ruled in June that Madrid-based Sacyr had formed a
``concert'' with at least six Spanish investors to gain control
of Eiffage and had broken the law by not publicly disclosing it.
Sacyr owned a 33.2 percent stake in Eiffage and controlling the
other investments put Sacyr over the threshold that would
automatically trigger an offer under French law, the AMF said.  
 The AMF allowed Sacyr to sell its stake in the French
construction company after an appeals court earlier this month
questioned how the agency conducted its investigation. While the
court agreed that Sacyr had collaborated with other investors,
it ordered the AMF on April 2 to review its conclusion that a
public offer was required.  
 It would be ``absurd'' to force a new bid based on the size
of stakes in April 2007, when the takeover bid was first
launched, said Christophe Perchet, a lawyer for Sacyr. ``This is
a matter between ADAM and AMF.''  
 A spokeswoman for the AMF declined to comment.  
 `No Grounds'  
 ``The rules on public offers relating to mandatory offers
must necessarily take into account all of the current
circumstances,'' the AMF said in its April 21 decision. Given
that Sacyr sold all of its Eiffage shares, ``there are no
grounds to force a public offer.''  
 Appealing the AMF's decision ``is a matter of principle,''
Neuville said, acknowledging it's unlikely the appeal would
result in Sacyr making a forced bid for Eiffage.  
 ``It is not up to the AMF to decide when it will apply
laws,'' Neuville said. ``Investors make their decisions,
whether to buy or sell or hold shares, believing the laws
governing the markets will be applied.''  
 A criminal probe of the matter gained prominence when Judge
Jacques Gazeaux ordered the Sacyr stake to be frozen to prevent
its sale after the appeals court overturned the AMF. Gazeaux
lifted the freeze on April 16, when he named Sacyr and Chief
Executive Officer Luis del Rivero as targets in his probe into
whether Sacyr concealed the investor concert's existence and
made false statements.  
 Neuville has applied to be considered a civil party to the
on-going criminal investigation. That status may make a damages
award for the shareholders more likely in the event of a guilty
verdict.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        