-- Honduras temporarily grabs Exxon, Chevron terminals
-- 
-- Sun Jan 14, 2007 1:59pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/14/businesspro-honduras-terminals-dc-idUSN1442176620070114

 

 TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras  (Reuters) - Honduras will take 
temporary control of foreign-owned oil storage terminals as 
part of a government import program meant to drive down fuel 
prices, President Manuel Zelaya said late on Saturday. 

  Zelaya ordered the move after failing to reach a deal with 
big oil companies Exxon Mobil ( XOM.N ) and Chevron ( CVX.N ), as 
well as local company DIPPSA, to rent the terminals.  "It is not a nationalization, it's a temporary use of the 
storage tanks through a lease and payment of a reasonable 
price," he said.  Honduras produces no crude of its own and no longer has a 
refinery. Its fuel market, like that of most Central American 
countries, is dominated by Shell ( RDSa.L ), Exxon Mobil and 
Chevron.  The government program takes control of imports away from 
the small group of oil companies that operate service stations 
in the Central American nation. Those companies have opposed 
the new system, saying it is anti-competitive.  A congressional commission set up to study the new system 
has said it could save Honduras -- one of the poorest countries 
in the Western Hemisphere -- about $66 million a year.  Zelaya, a logging magnate, said the decree will allow the 
government to go ahead with a deal reached in November with 
Conoco Phillips ( COP.N ) to import at least 8.4 million barrels 
of gasoline and diesel a year.  Exxon Mobil and Chevron could not immediately be reached 
for comment.  A spokesman for an oil companies group in Honduras, Mario 
del Cid, warned on Sunday the imposition would hurt the 
country's reputation among investors.  "Investment is based on clear rules, and decisions of this 
kind are not a good message," he told Reuters.  Oil companies in Honduras imported some $900 million worth 
of fuel in 2005.  Foreign oil companies' operations in Honduras are much 
smaller than in Venezuela, where President Hugo Chavez said on 
Saturday the country's entire energy sector had to be 
nationalized, reinforcing his socialist revolution.  He said Venezuela was "almost ready" to take over the 
foreign-run oil projects of the Orinoco Belt run by 
heavyweights such as Chevron, Conoco Phillips and Exxon Mobil, 
that produce about 600,000 barrels per day.  (Additional reporting by Nick Zieminski in New York)