-- Circuit City to open new prototype store:exec
-- 
-- Sun Jan 14, 2007 4:36pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/14/businesspro-circuitcity-prototype-dc-idUSN1436793020070114

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Circuit City Stores Inc. CC.N will 
be rolling out a new prototype store in June, John Mulleady, 
vice president for real estate and construction at Circuit 
City, said on Sunday at the National Retail Federation's annual 
conference. 

  Mulleady did not give many details of the prototype, but he 
said it would involve several stores and build on the consumer 
electronics retailer's efforts to continually test new store 
types to better appeal to today's shoppers.  Mulleady made the comments as part of a panel discussion on 
retailers' real estate strategies. James Bersani, Limited 
Brands Inc.'s ( LTD.N ) executive vice president for real estate, 
also spoke on the panel.  The two executives said retailers are constantly testing 
different store formats to accommodate ever-changing customer 
tastes and shopping patterns.  Bersani said that 80 percent of Limited's roughly 3,500 
stores are mall-based and as such, the retailer keeps a close 
eye on the health of the malls it occupies. With no new malls 
being built, he said the healthiest ones are those that 
reinvest in and upgrade their properties.  Bersani said he expects a number of malls to become 
obsolete in the new few years, but he warned that the so-called 
lifestyle centers -- an outdoor shopping area with stores and 
restaurants -- that are so popular today could be following the 
same path as malls.  "I do worry that some of the overbuilding of malls is going 
to repeat itself in lifestyle centers," he said.  Circuit City's Mulleady said he is now working on building 
300 new stores in the next two years -- a jump for a retailer 
that has been building 10 to 12 stores a year, he said.  While Circuit City has stores in Canada, Mulleady said "not 
today" when asked if the retailer was looking at additional 
international expansion.  Mulleady, a former Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) executive, 
said many U.S. retailers run into problems internationally by 
not understanding the local markets.  "They are trying to repeat the model that works in the 
United States overseas," he said.  He said success depends on finding the right local partner, 
and often companies need to be able to absorb many years of 
losses to succeed abroad.  While Limited is buying Canadian lingerie retailer La Senza 
Corp. LSZ.TO, profits are a reason Bersani said the retailer 
has not opened up its stores internationally.  "We all want sales growth," he said, "But we want 
profitable sales growth."