-- Troubled waters for industry as key season opens
-- By  James B. Kelleher
-- Sun Jan 14, 2007 1:48pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/14/businesspro-boatshow-chicago-dc-idUSN1248157420070114

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - The annual North American boat show 
season kicks into high gear this week with five major expos, 
from Atlanta to Toronto, opening nearly simultaneously, 
including one of the year's biggest inside the McCormick Place 
convention center here on Lake Michigan. 

  The next eight weeks will be critical for marine 
manufacturers and retailers. Experts say between 40 percent and 
60 percent of the industry's annual sales come from deals 
signed or leads generated at these events.  "The shows are really the No. 1 marketing tool for the 
industry," said Thom Dammrich, the president of the National 
Marine Manufacturers Association, a Chicago-based trade group.  But coming into this year's crunch show season, the boating 
industry finds itself in troubled waters, beset by rising 
interest rates, a slowing economy and the sharpest housing 
slump in 15 years, which has U.S. consumers nervous.  As a result, the industry saw unit sales decline last year 
-- a trend expected to continue in 2007, according to Dammrich.  In an interview with Reuters ahead of the Chicago show, 
Dammrich said his members hold out little hope that 2007 is 
going to be any better. The reason? Historically, boat sales 
take a dip any time the Fed funds rate gets above 5 percent, as 
it is now, or when U.S. economic growth fall below 3 percent, 
as it did in the third quarter, according to the Commerce 
Department.  "I was just talking with a pretty large group of 
manufacturers earlier ... and, if we get a flat year in '07, 
they'll be very happy," Dammrich told Reuters.  But there are signs that even hopes for a flat year may be 
wishful thinking. MarineMax Inc. ( HZO.N ), the largest U.S. boat 
retailer, has slashed its earnings forecast for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2007.  And Tim Conder, a leisure industry analyst at AG Edwards, 
thinks that, as bad as the story is at MarineMax, it is even 
worse for other retailers because the Clearwater, Florida-based 
company is "the largest and best dealer network" in the 
business and "significantly outperforming the marine industry."  The bad news from MarineMax was the latest sign the 
industry is taking on water. Late last year, Brunswick Corp. 
( BC.N ), the world's largest manufacturer of recreational boats, 
said it would cut more than 600 jobs as it responded to falling 
demand for its products brought on by higher interest rates and 
energy prices and deteriorating consumer confidence.  The cuts came after the Lake Forest, Illinois-based company 
reported in October that its third-quarter earnings dropped 59 
percent from a year earlier as the woes of the Detroit auto 
industry translated into "significant declines" in sales in the 
upper U.S. Midwest -- a key market for the pricey toys 
Brunswick makes.  Scanning the horizon, Dammrich at the NMMA says there are 
signs of light. Chief among them is the recent dramatic plunge 
in oil prices, which promises to lower the cost of all kinds of 
petroleum-based products the industry relies on, including 
fiberglass, resins and foams.  Lower crude prices also translate into lower fuel costs at 
the dock -- a small part of overall ownership costs, but one 
that can discourage first-time buyers from taking the plunge.  What's more, while the overall industry saw sales decline 
in 2006, some segments did quite well, including the ski- and 
wake board boat market, as well as the jet ski and wave runner 
markets.  While personal water craft typically sell for less than 
$10,000, the ski boats can easily top $70,000.  Looking out to 2008, Dammrich said manufacturers are 
optimistic the industry will rebound. That will mark the third 
year of the "Discover Boating" campaign, the industry's first- 
ever TV ad campaign.  Since the boat ads began airing in early April on CNN and 
other cable networks, Dammrich said about 6 percent of the 
target market has moved from being "not interested in boating" 
to "interested."  Since it typically takes two to three years for would-be 
buyers to go from "interested" to outright ownership, 2008 
could be the year the campaign starts lifting sales.  In addition, Dammrich is confident the Federal Reserve will 
have eased rates and the economy begun to grow by 2008, if not 
earlier.  "The combination of those two things bodes very well for 
'08 and '09," he added.