-- Frederick's of Hollywood Goes Public With Acquisition
-- Carol Wolf
-- 2006-12-19T22:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-19/frederick-s-of-hollywood-goes-public-with-acquisition-update4-.html

          
          
             FOH Holdings Inc., the parent
company of intimate apparel chain Frederick's of Hollywood,
agreed to merge with  Movie Star Inc. (MSI)  in a move that will make
Frederick's a public company.  
 Publicly held Movie Star, a maker of women's sleepwear and
lingerie for retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , will buy
Frederick's parent in a $34.6 million deal that leaves Los
Angeles-based Frederick's with a 60 percent stake in the combined
company, the two apparel makers said today in a statement.  
 The transaction effectively makes Frederick's a public
company for the first time since 1997, when it was acquired by
closely held Knightsbridge Capital Corp. for $67.4 million. The
chain, which sells in 130 stores, through catalogues and on line,
emerged from more than two years of  bankruptcy protection  in
2003.  
 Frederick's shareholders will receive 23.7 million shares
of Movie Star common stock, New York-based Movie Star said in a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  filing  today. The
combined company will be called  Frederick's of Hollywood Group
Inc. (FOH)   
 The transaction value is based on Movie Star's shares,
which rose 18 cents, or 14 percent, to $1.46 at 4:23 p.m. in
American Stock Exchange composite trading. Earlier, the stock
reached $1.68, the highest since March 2004.  
 Michael Tokarz, through his closely held Tokarz
Investments LLC, holds a majority stake in Frederick's, whose
only other shareholder is Fursa Alternative Strategies. Tokarz,
a retired Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. partner, also holds a
22 percent stake in Movie Star through his TTG Apparel LLC
affiliate, making him its largest shareholder.  
 Sells to Chains  
 Movie Star will also offer its shareholders an additional
$20 million in new shares. Tokarz and Fursa have agreed to buy
any of the newly issued Movie Star stock not purchased by
existing shareholders, the companies said.  
 In the year ended July 29, Frederick's had revenue of
about $139 million, compared with Movie Star's $51 million in
the year ended June 30. Movie Star posted a loss of $1 million,
or 6 cents a share, in the year through June.  
 Movie Star sells its goods in chains and department
stores, and also operates its own retail outlets. Last fiscal
year, about 25 percent of its sales came from Wal-Mart, while
Target Corp. accounted for about 15 percent of sales, according
to the  SEC filing .  
 The combined company plans to open about 50 Frederick's of
Hollywood stores in the next three years, the filing said. The
transaction is expected to be completed in the second quarter
of 2007.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in  Cleveland  at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Nol at 
 mnol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        