-- United Airlines, Three Carriers, Can Expand Alliance
-- John Hughes
-- 2006-12-19T23:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2006-12-19/united-airlines-three-carriers-can-expand-alliance-update1-.html

          
          
             UAL Corp.'s  United Airlines  and
members of its  Star Alliance , the world's largest airline
grouping, can add three new carriers with antitrust immunity,
the U.S. Transportation Department said.  
 The three are Swiss International Air Lines Ltd., which is
being taken over by  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ; Polskie Linie
Lotnicze LOT SA, Poland's national airline; and TAP SGPS SA,
Portugal's state-owned carrier.  
 Government approval, which is not yet final, would let a
total of eight airlines in  North America  and Europe act more
like a single carrier, coordinating routes, fares and marketing,
without fear of antitrust prosecution. The alliance has 16
international carriers, according to the department.  
 ``The proposed alliance expansion will enhance
competition,'' Andrew Steinberg, the assistant transportation
secretary for aviation and international affairs, said in the
decision today in Washington. The alliance also will expand
airline service, he said.  
 The decision also expands United's existing antitrust
immunity with  ACE Aviation Holdings Inc. (ACE/H) 's  Air Canada (AC/A)  to all
international operations. Previously, United and Air  Canada  had
antitrust immunity only to cooperate on flights between the U.S.
and Canada.  
 Along with United and Air Canada, the three newcomers have
antitrust immunity to cooperate with Lufthansa, Austrian
Airlines Group, owner of the country's largest airline, and SAS
Group's Scandinavian Airlines, the Nordic region's biggest
carrier.  
 American, Continental  
 The decision is a defeat for AMR Corp.'s  American Airlines 
and Continental Airlines Inc. American argued that antitrust
immunity for the carriers would reduce competition at major
European hubs. Continental said the alliance would enhance
market power in the U.S.-London and U.S.-Poland markets.  
 The Transportation Department instead found that the
immunized alliance would boost competition with other large
airline alliances such as SkyTeam and oneworld.  
 The Star Alliance carriers told the department the addition
of the three airlines would add service to 25 cities, and the
expansion of the United-Air Canada alliance would add 59 more.  
 ``It enables us to cooperate more closely and efficiently
with our Star Alliance partners,'' said Robin Urbanski, a
spokeswoman for Elk Grove Township, Illinois-based United. ``We
can offer our customer more international service options.''  
 The Transportation Department will take comments for 21
days before making the decision final.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Versical at   dversical@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        