-- EU backs Airbus in Boeing spat
-- By  William Schomberg  and Darren Schuettler
-- Wed Dec 6, 2006 3:47pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/06/businesspro-airbus-boeing-dc-idUSL0683947220061206

 

 BRUSSELS/BANGKOK  (Reuters) - The EU on Wednesday backed 
Airbus in a row over state subsidies with U.S. rival Boeing Co. 
( BA.N ) while yet another client of the European planemaker 
threatened to cancel orders for the A380 superjumbo. 

  The European Union plans to press on with its case in a 
transatlantic dispute over alleged illegal aid paid to Boeing 
and Airbus, EU trade chief Peter Mandelson said.  "We will proceed with our counter-case until such time 
there is genuine evidence of a willingness on the U.S. side to 
negotiate," Mandelson said.  Airbus President Louis Gallois on Monday attacked Boeing 
for receiving state subsidies for developing new planes, as the 
Toulouse-based group drew a veil over how it would finance the 
A350 extra-wide body jet, seen as vital for its future.  A French government source said recently that Airbus parent 
EADS ( EAD.PA ) would be able to support 6 billion euros for the 
A350 and was seeking external sources for the remaining 4 
billion.  On Friday, the EADS board gave the go-ahead to the A350 
even as financing issues and ownership structures remain 
unclear and France and Germany closely scrutinize possible job 
losses linked to the cost cutting.  Finance Minister Thierry Breton has pledged French support 
for any EADS capital increase while Germany is trying to keep 
Germany's stake unchanged despite a decision by DaimlerChrysler 
DCXGn.DE to cut its 22.5 percent EADS stake to 15 percent.  In a sign of deadlock, EADS was not discussed at a meeting 
between French President Jacques Chirac and German Chancellor 
Angela Merkel in Mettlach, Germany, on Tuesday.
  THAI THREAT, TRADE ROW  Airbus is already hobbled by costly two-year wiring delays 
to the A380 superjumbo and is seeking to slash costs by 
simplifying production as the fall in the dollar hands Boeing a 
competitive edge in the dollar-denominated global market.  Thai Airways International said it would cancel its order 
for six A380s if talks on compensation for delayed delivery 
failed. Thai Airways, 69 percent owned by the government and 
state agencies, will make a final decision after its board 
meets on December 19, airline President Apinan Sumanaseni said.  There have been no fresh cancellations of the A380 since 
FedEx Express, a unit of FedEx Corp. ( FDX.N ), terminated an 
order for 10 of the A380-800F freighter version last month.  German airline Lufthansa ( LHAG.DE ) on Wednesday placed a 
$6.9-billion order for both Boeing and Airbus planes. While it 
would buy seven A340-600s, it selected 20 Boeing 747-800 
aircraft with options for 20 more.  The 747-800 seats more than 400 passenger, less than the 
555 of the A380, of which the German carrier has 15 on order.  The EU and the United States are locked in a row at the 
World Trade Organization (WTO) over the subsidies claims, which 
could be the biggest-ever case handled by the trading body's 
dispute settlement panels.  U.S. lawyers last month filed arguments at the WTO over the 
alleged illegal subsidies paid to Airbus. The EU is likely to 
launch a counter-claim against Boeing early next year.  "It has been clear that the U.S. definition of a 
negotiation is one that sees the total elimination of launch 
investment on the Airbus side, but continuation of healthy 
subsidies for Boeing on their side," Mandelson said.  "That is not an acceptable basis to me for a negotiation."  ($1=.7527 Euro)