-- Taco Bell pulls green onions after food scare
-- 
-- Wed Dec 6, 2006 10:55am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/06/businesspro-yum-tacobell-dc-idUSWNAS489820061206

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Fast food chain Taco Bell said on 
Wednesday it has stopped serving green onions at its roughly 
5,800 restaurants following a recent outbreak of the foodborne 
E. coli bacteria that caused it to temporarily close nine 
restaurants. 

  Taco Bell, a unit of Yum Brands Inc. ( YUM.N ), said 
preliminary tests showed three samples of green onions were 
found to be "presumptive positive" for the E. coli 0157:H7 
strain. Tests were not yet conclusive, the company said.  That strain of E. coli causes an estimated 73,000 cases of 
infection and 60 deaths in the United States each year.  The tests were conducted by an independent laboratory hired 
by Taco Bell, the company said. State health officials are 
conducting their own testing.  Taco Bell had closed eight restaurants on Long Island, New 
York, and one in New Jersey after a suspected E.coli outbreak 
that may have sickened more than 50 people in three states. 
Health officials in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania were 
investigating E.coli cases in people who had eaten at Taco 
Bell, though a source had not been determined.  The company said on Tuesday the eight New York restaurants 
were set to reopen and that it also hoped to reopen the New 
Jersey restaurant that day. A spokesman could not be reached 
Wednesday.  Green onions have been linked to foodborne illness at 
restaurants in the past. In 2003, casual dining chain 
O'Charley's Inc. CHUX.O said about 77 people contracted the 
Hepatitis A virus, which was traced to contaminated green 
onions.  Analysts said on Tuesday that any impact on Yum financial 
results was likely to be fleeting and the stock rallied almost 
3 percent on Tuesday, when the company said it would double its 
cash dividend.  The stock was down 73 cents at $62.53 on Wednesday on the 
New York Stock Exchange.