-- Ford Motor boosts convertible sale to $4.5 billion
-- By  Dena Aubin
-- Wed Dec 6, 2006 4:29pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/06/businesspro-ford-credit-dc-idUSN0643417920061206

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Strong demand allowed Ford Motor Co. 
( F.N ) to boost a convertible bond sale by 50 percent to $4.5 
billion on Wednesday as investors bet that the struggling 
automaker will engineer a successful turnaround. 

  The sale was raised from an original $3 billion and could 
be increased by an additional $450 million at Ford's option, 
market sources close to the deal said.  One of the largest convertible bond sales this year, the 
offering is part of a roughly $22 billion to $23 billion 
financing package to help Ford resuscitate its North American 
operations after a nearly $12.4 billion pretax loss since 
January 2005, including special items.  "You're buying into the peak of the panic," said Glenn 
Reynolds, chief executive officer of New York-based research 
firm CreditSights Inc. "If you're a bull on Ford, owning the 
converts is the way to go because you get equity upside, not 
just equity risk."  Convertible securities pay a fixed interest rate like bonds 
but can be exchanged for shares.  Ford's offering, which is expected to be priced later on 
Wednesday, is the largest convertible issue sold in the U.S. 
market since biotechnology company Amgen's ( AMGN.O ) $5 billion 
two-part deal in February, according to financial data provider 
Dealogic.
  CHEAPER THAN BONDS  In an indication of strong demand, prices on the 
convertibles rose by about 4-3/8 percentage points in the "gray 
market," where securities are traded immediately before a sale, 
a market source said.  By selling convertibles, Ford probably cut its borrowing 
costs by more than half from what it would have paid for 
straight debt, said Shelly Lombard, analyst for independent 
research service Gimme Credit.  "There's a ready-made market in people who already like the 
equity, and this gives them a chance to get a coupon and 
participate in the upside if the company does well," she said.  Strong demand allowed Ford to reduce the coupon to a range 
of 4.25 to 4.75 percent from an initial 4.75 to 5.25 percent. 
The conversion premium is expected to be 23 to 25 percent, down 
from 23 to 27 percent, market sources said.  Even at the revised levels, the convertibles are 
attractive, said Paul Berkman, a convertibles analyst at J. 
Giordano Securities Group in New York.  Ford's common equity holders, for example, could swap into 
the convertibles, paying a 25 percent premium over common 
shares, and make that up in coupon interest in 4.7 years, he 
said.  "If you hold this more than 4.7 years, you're going to be 
ahead by owning the convertibles, no matter what happens," he 
said. "Whether the common stock goes up or down or stays the 
same, you're going to be ahead."  Seven-year call protection also means that investors are 
assured of interest past the 4.7-year break-even point, "almost 
unheard of for a convertible," he said.
  FINANCING PACKAGE SWELLS  Selling by common shareholders to make room for the new 
convertibles likely contributed to a 4.17 percent drop in 
Ford's stock on Wednesday, strategists said. Ford's shares fell 
32 cents to $7.36 on the New York stock exchange.  Struggling with a slide in market share and rising costs, 
Ford is selling the bonds as part of a massive financing plan 
announced last month which also includes a secured loan and 
secured revolving credit line.  The financing marks the first time Ford has pledged assets 
for loans, an indication of its deepening financial troubles.  "They're going to burn through a lot of cash in these next 
few years, and they're just getting ready for that," said Mirko 
Mikelic, portfolio manager and senior credit analyst for Fifth 
Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids, Michigan. "People are 
betting that they're going to become profitable again, but as a 
smaller company obviously."  The next year will probably be an "unmitigated disaster" 
for Ford, "but the view is they're going to come out of it and 
be stronger in 2008," said CreditSights' Reynolds. "They have 
so much liquidity, it's almost impossible to go bankrupt 
without a major work stoppage and union disruption, and that's 
why people are piling in."  In all, Ford on Wednesday boosted its financing package to 
roughly $22 billion to $23 billion from an original $18 
billion. A secured revolving credit line will now be roughly 
$10.5 billion to $11.5 billion, up from an originally planned 
$8 billion. The revolver will replace an unsecured credit line 
of $6.3 billion.  The financing also includes a secured term loan of about $7 
billion whose size was not changed.  The joint book-runners on the convertible sale are 
Citigroup Global Markets, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JP 
Morgan, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley.  (Additional reporting by Caryn Trokie)