-- Best Buy results could give clues on holiday sales
-- By  Nicole Maestri
-- Wed Dec 6, 2006 1:06pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/06/businesspro-bestbuy-outlook-dc-idUSN0638954520061206

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Investors will get a first look at 
whether early strong holiday sales for electronics are 
translating into higher profits when Best Buy Co. Inc. ( BBY.N ) 
reports its quarterly results next week. 

  On Tuesday, the No. 1 U.S. specialty consumer electronics 
retailer will release earnings for its fiscal third quarter, 
which ended in November and included the Thanksgiving weekend 
that marks the kick-off to the holiday shopping season.  Initial reports said consumer electronics, such as flat- 
panel TVs and MP3 players, were hot weekend sellers as 
retailers opened doors early and cut prices on hot items.  While Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) last week posted a 
decline in November sales at stores open at least a year. It 
said electronics were among its strongest categories as it cut 
prices on plasma televisions.  Analysts are now waiting to see how well specialty 
retailers such as Best Buy and Circuit City Stores Inc. CC.N 
-- which will report results December 19 -- were able to stand 
up to pricing pressure from Wal-Mart and each other.  "The central controversy ahead of third-quarter results 
centers on whether acceleration in TV unit growth will fully 
offset faster-than-expected (average selling price) declines," 
wrote Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Colin McGranahan in a note.  "We believe TV sales remained very strong -- albeit slowing 
somewhat -- despite the sharp TV price deflation."  High-definition LCD and plasma TVs are expected to be one 
of the holiday season's hottest selling items.  Retailers are fighting to win sales by cutting prices and 
promoting "price guarantees" -- offering to match competitors' 
prices or refund customers from 110 percent to 125 percent of 
the difference if they buy a TV but then find the same one 
advertised for less elsewhere.  Electronics retailer Tweeter Home Entertainment Group Inc. 
TWTR.O, which reported a quarterly loss on Wednesday, said it 
was seeing a "stunningly promotional, highly competitive 
environment" in flat-panel TVs, with falling gross margins.  Bernstein's McGranahan said aggressive prices on TVs, and 
strong gaming and personal computer demand should drive strong 
sales for Best Buy. But he said increased promotions, margin 
erosion in TVs and a shift toward lower-margin gaming and PC 
categories pose a risk to gross margins.  Best Buy faces an easy comparison with its year-ago third- 
quarter when profit fell short of Wall Street targets on higher 
costs as it converted stores to a "segmented" format that 
tailors products for specific shoppers.  Analysts, on average, are expecting it to earn 35 cents per 
share in the third quarter, according to Reuters Estimates, up 
from 28 cents a year ago.  "We expect Best Buy to report a solid third quarter, likely 
meeting the consensus estimate," wrote William Blair & Co. 
analyst Jack Murphy in a research note.  Murphy expects Best Buy to maintain its full year earnings 
forecast of roughly $35.5 billion in sales and earnings per 
share of $2.65 to $2.80.  "We do not expect management to change its full-year 
outlook heading into the important fourth quarter, which 
accounts for approximately 35 percent of full-year sales and 54 
percent of full-year earnings, by our estimate," he said.