-- Novell posts a profit but outlook disappoints
-- By  Jim Finkle
-- Tue Dec 5, 2006 7:58pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/06/businesspro-novell-results-dc-idUSWEN075320061206

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - Business software maker Novell Inc. 
NOVL.O posted disappointing quarterly results on Tuesday due 
to weak sales of older products, and said it expected to take 
restructuring charges in 2007, driving its shares down 10 
percent. 

  While Novell reported a preliminary fiscal fourth-quarter 
profit, bouncing from a year-ago loss, revenue fell 15 percent 
to $244.9 million, short of the average Wall Street forecast of 
$251.5 million, according to Reuters Estimates.  "Overall these are disappointing results," said Jefferies & 
Co. analyst Katherine Egbert, citing the lower-than-expected 
quarterly sales figure and Novell's 2007 sales outlook.  Novell had warned investors in August that its quarterly 
earnings would miss analysts' forecasts, blaming weakening 
sales of older products, as well as plans to boost spending on 
product development and make changes to its sales force.  A longtime competitor of Microsoft Corp. ( MSFT.O ), Novell 
rose to prominence in the 1980s when it introduced one of the 
first networking systems that connected personal computers.  But sales of those products dried up and Novell has sought 
to reinvent itself in recent years by focusing on the 
open-source Linux operating system and identity-management 
products that help control access to secure data.  Novell said fourth-quarter net income available to common 
stockholders was $23.7 million, or 6 cents a share, compared 
with a loss of $5.0 million, or 1 cent a share, a year earlier 
when it took a $38 million restructuring charge.  For the year ended October 31, revenue fell to $967 million 
from $1.04 billion in the previous year, Novell said.  It forecast fiscal 2007 revenue at between $945 million and 
$975 million. The range was lower than analysts' projections of 
$949 million to $1.05 billion, with the average at $1 billion, 
according to Reuters Estimates.  The company said it will take restructuring charges this 
fiscal year as it looks to end the revenue slide and increase 
profitability. But executives would not discuss the size of the 
charges during a conference call with analysts.  Novell has already taken some $150 million in restructuring 
charges over the past five years. Chief Executive Ron Hovsepian 
said those efforts have failed to realize their full potential 
in boosting profitability.  The company also said it expects to incur an extra $20 
million to $25 million in costs this year as it changes the 
structure of its sales organization and moves some research and 
development to countries with low labor costs.  Analysts said they were concerned that Novell is boosting 
spending at a time when sales are falling.  "I think it's hard for investors to give you credit 
upfront," Banc of America Securities analyst Kirk Materne told 
Hovsepian during the conference call. Hovsepian, a 17-year 
veteran of IBM ( IBM.N ), was named CEO in June.  Novell Chief Financial Officer Dana Russell said he expects 
to book about $20 million in 2007 revenue from a sales 
partnership that Novell set up with Microsoft. The two 
companies have teamed up to sell Novell Linux software and 
technical support, competing with Red Hat Inc. RHAT.O and 
Oracle Corp. ORCL.O, which entered that market in October.  Novell's shares fell to $5.70 in after-hours electronic 
trading from a Nasdaq close of $6.33. The stock has fallen 29 
percent this year on earnings disappointments, while the Nasdaq 
Composite Index has climbed 11 percent.  The company said the fourth-quarter results were 
preliminary because it is conducting a review of its past stock 
options practices, which could lead to accounting adjustments.