-- U.S. judge rules Barclays back in Enron lawsuit
-- 
-- Tue Dec 5, 2006 7:01pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/06/businesspro-enron-barclays-dc-idUSN0532601020061206

 

 HOUSTON  (Reuters) - A U.S. federal judge, who originally 
dismissed claims against Barclays Plc ( BARC.L ) in a $40 billion 
lawsuit, ruled Enron Corp. investors may file an amended 
complaint detailing charges that the bank helped hide financial 
misdeeds that led to the energy giant's collapse. 

  In July, U.S. District Judge Melinda Harmon in Houston 
dismissed Barclays from the civil lawsuit, which has netted 
more than $7 billion for investors, including $2 billion or 
more each from Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce ( CM.TO ), J.P. 
Morgan ( JPM.N ) and Citigroup Inc. ( C.N ).  But on Monday, Judge Harmon wrote in an opinion that the 
plaintiffs, who are represented by powerful class-action 
attorney Bill Lerach, may file another complaint that includes 
more detail about Barclays' transactions with Enron.  The judge's order effectively reinstates Barclays as a 
defendant, Lerach told Reuters, saying the judge was likely 
swayed by additional details on "sham" transactions between 
Barclays and Enron that his firm had uncovered since the 
original lawsuit was filed.  In the 21-page order, Judge Harmon said she would decide 
whether the plaintiffs have enough credible evidence to support 
what they allege based on their amended lawsuit.  "This is a ruling based on the plaintiffs' procedural 
objection," David Braff, Barclay's lead attorney on the case, 
said. "The judge has allowed the plaintiff an opportunity to 
replead. In so doing, she has strongly confirmed the legal 
analysis and reason that supported her dismissal of Barclays in 
July."  Other banks named in the lawsuit include Merrill Lynch 
MER.N, Credit Suisse Group ( CSGN.VX ), Toronto Dominion Bank 
( TD.TO ), Royal Bank of Canada ( RY.TO ) and Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc ( RBS.L ).  A trial is scheduled for April 2007.