-- NYTimes family will not change share structure: CEO
-- By  Robert MacMillan
-- Wed Dec 6, 2006 1:48pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/06/businesspro-newyorktimes-structure-dc-idUSN0643532620061206

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - The Ochs-Sulzberger family will not 
agree to scrap The New York Times Co.'s ( NYT.N ) dual-class 
share structure, which gives them more control of the newspaper 
publisher, Chief Executive Janet Robinson said on Wednesday. 

  The structure has come under fire in the past year from 
shareholders unhappy with the company's performance. Hassan 
Elmasry, who supervises Morgan Stanley Investment Management's 
7.6 percent stake in the Times, has called on the company to 
give all shareholders equal representation.  The family "has no intention of opening any of our doors to 
the action that is tearing at the heart of some of the other 
great journalistic institutions of our country," Robinson said 
at a Credit Suisse media conference in New York.  The Ochs-Sulzberger family, who have controlled the Times 
since the late 19th century, own about 20 percent of the 
company, making them the largest controller, Robinson said.  Their shares give them more of a say in the company's 
future than other shareholders have. Arthur Sulzberger Jr., 
chairman of the board, is also publisher of The New York Times 
newspaper.  The dual-class share structure has been in place since 
before the company went public in 1969, Robinson said, and is 
designed "to protect the journalistic independence and 
integrity of The New York Times."  She said company officials last spoke with Elmasry in 
September, but declined to say if he has changed his stance.  Elmasry filed a proposal to the Times in November asking 
shareholders to approve a proposal giving every share one equal 
vote. He also has asked shareholders to approve his proposal to 
separate the role of chairman from publisher.  In answer to a question on whether the Times would sell the 
Boston Globe newspaper, Robinson said, "We've made it very 
clear that we are constantly evaluating our portfolio. That 
said, it is very important to understand that New England is a 
very important asset for The New York Times Co."  Former General Electric Chief Jack Welch and Boston 
advertising executive Jack Conners are part of an investor 
group interested in buying the Globe.  New York Times shares have fallen by about 9 percent since 
the beginning of the year. The stock was down 52 cents, or 2.13 
percent, at $23.95 on the New York Stock Exchange early 
Wednesday afternoon.  The Times said on Tuesday its Internet revenue could grow 
30 percent in 2007, and that it is trying to cut costs and is 
continuing to rebalance its portfolio of properties in a tough 
media climate.  The online growth forecast is a bright spot in a business 
that is struggling with falling circulation and weaker 
advertising. Robinson said on Tuesday she expected the media 
market to remain "challenging" next year.