-- UPDATE 4-Mitsubishi UFJ faces sanctions in U.S. -source
-- 
-- Wed Dec 6, 2006 2:54am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/06/mitsubishiufj-laundering-idUST27965620061206

 

  (Adds analyst comment, closing share price) 

  By Taro Fuse and Jonathan Soble TOKYO  Dec 6 (Reuters) - U.S. financial authorities are
likely to punish Japan's Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG)
( 8306.T ) this month for slack monitoring of suspected money
laundering, a source close to the matter said on Wednesday.  The sanctions could force MUFG, the world's biggest bank by
assets, to delay plans to reorganise its U.S. operation under a
holding company structure and hurt its ability to make
acquisitions in the country.  Jason Rogers, an analyst at Barclays Capital, said the
earnings impact would be marginal given MUFG's vast size and
mostly Japan-based business. But he added that that could change
if MUFG were forced to put off U.S. expansion plans for an
extended period.  "If it's a matter of months, it's not going to make much
difference, but if it's years ... it could be a blow to the
franchise."  Shares in MUFG closed up 1.4 percent at 1.48 million yen
after falling early in the day. The banking sub-sector .IBNKS.T
rose 0.9 percent and the Nikkei average  .N225  gained 0.65
percent.  MUFG, whose shares are listed in New York as well as in
Tokyo, was ordered to tighten management controls at U.S.
subsidiary Union Bank of California two years ago, also for
failure to take steps against money laundering.  In the current case, according to the Nihon Keizai business
daily, the Federal Reserve believes MUFG was lax in reporting
suspicious money transfers and account openings at the New York
branch of its core commercial bank, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ,
and at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Co., also based in
New York.  The branch and trust unit will likely be slapped with a
business improvement order and fines, as well as forced to submit
fund transfer records for the past few years, but operations will
not be suspended, the newspaper said.  A spokesman for the financial group declined to comment.  U.S. officials have recently visited Japan and held
discussions with MUFG about the terms of its punishment,
according to the source close to the matter.  MUFG and other big Japanese lenders are looking to rebuild
their global presence after unloading most of their overseas
assets in the 1990s, when mounting bad loans crippled their
domestic businesses and prompted massive government bailouts.  Mizuho Financial Group ( 8411.T ), Japan's second-biggest bank,
last month joined MUFG as the second big Japanese lender to list
in New York. Mizuho also plans to establish a holding company in
the United States, a step that requires approval from regulators.  Becoming a financial holding company allows a bank to offer a
wider range of services in areas such as insurance and securities
underwriting.  (Additional reporting by  Nathan Layne  and  David Dolan )




