-- Imax Names Joseph Sparacio as Chief Financial Officer
-- Leon Lazaroff
-- 2007-04-05T20:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-05/imax-names-joseph-sparacio-as-chief-financial-officer-update3-.html

          
          
             Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the Canadian movie-
screen maker whose accounting is under regulatory scrutiny,
named industry veteran Joseph Sparacio chief financial officer
to help the company clear up its bookkeeping.  
 Sparacio, 47, a former CFO of Loews Cineplex Entertainment
Corp., will join the company next month from iN Demand LLC, a
pay-per-view cable-television network, where he became CFO in
2002, Mississauga, Ontario-based Imax said today in a statement.  
 Prompted by securities regulators in the U.S. and  Canada ,
Imax delayed its 2006 annual report for a second time last week
as it expanded a probe into accounting errors. Imax, after
finding mistakes in booking costs, planned to restate earnings
to add $2.5 million in expenses. The latest probe, into  sales 
accounting, may add to the restatements, Imax said last week.  
 Imax hired Sparacio partly because of his ``experience with
commercial theater operations,'' Co-Chief Executive Officer  Rich Gelfond  said in an e-mailed comment. Gelfond also cited
Sparacio's integrity and his ``hands-on attention to detail.''  
 Shares of Imax fell 22 cents, 3.8 percent, to C$5.61 at
4 p.m. in Toronto Stock Exchange trading. They have risen
29 percent this year.  
 Interim CFO Edward MacNeil will remain with the company in
a senior role, Imax said.  
 MacNeil replaced Francis Joyce in August, two weeks after
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission began an informal
inquiry into the company's accounting. Ontario Securities
Commission regulators also began probing Imax last year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma Moody at 
 emoody@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        