-- 
N.Z. Home-Building Approvals Decline to Two-Year Low Amid Quake Disruption

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-03-29T22:58:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-29/new-zealand-s-home-building-approvals-declined-in-march-on-weak-recovery.html
New Zealand’s home-building
approvals dropped to a two-year low in February, a sign
residential construction and  consumer confidence  were sluggish
when last month’s earthquake derailed the economic recovery.  Permits fell 9.7 percent to 1,007 from January, when they
gained a revised 9.1 percent, and were the lowest since 966 in
January 2009,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington today.
Excluding apartments, approvals declined for the seventh time in
eight months, dropping 7.8 percent.  Fewer building approvals and weaker confidence add to signs
that the economy won’t show significant growth until 2012. Gross
domestic product will likely drop in the first quarter after
disruption caused by a magnitude 6.3 earthquake that wrecked
roads and buildings in Christchurch on Feb. 22, the central bank
said this month.  “Every month of very low consent issuance adds downside
risk to our already weak near-term construction outlook,” said
Chris Tennent-Brown, an economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland.
“The increased scale of destruction following the February
quake now means repair work is unlikely to get under way in a
meaningful sense until late this year.”  New Zealand ’s dollar fell after the report. It bought 75.62
U.S. cents at 11:57 a.m. in Wellington from 75.72 cents
immediately before the release.  Quake Effects  In February, the number of approvals in Christchurch and
the surrounding Canterbury province slumped 40 percent to 148,
today’s report showed. It isn’t possible to say how much of the
fall was due to the Feb. 22 temblor, the statistics agency said.  Sixteen approvals relating to previous earthquakes in the
region, including a magnitude 7 temblor on Sept. 4, were
recorded in the month, it said.  Consumer confidence plunged to the lowest level in two
years this quarter, according to an index prepared by Westpac
Banking Corp. and McDermott Miller Ltd. Central bank Governor
Alan Bollard on March 10 slashed his 2011 economic growth
forecast to 1.3 percent from 2.7 percent.  The value of residential consents, which include
alterations, sheds and garages, fell 20 percent from a year
earlier to NZ$389 million ($294 million), today’s report showed.  The value of non-residential building approvals dropped 19
percent from a year earlier to NZ$257 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  