-- Home Depot investors try to halt ex-CEO exit pay
-- By  Karen Jacobs
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 9:28pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/11/businesspro-homedepot-ceopay-dc-idUSN1032571820070111

 

 ATLANTA  (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc. ( HD.N ) investors on 
Wednesday asked a Georgia state court to issue an injunction 
blocking the retailer from paying former Chief Executive Robert 
Nardelli a $210-million severance package. 

  "Nardelli's severance package is a final, indefensible step 
by the board of directors in wrongly over-compensating an 
unsuccessful chief executive," plaintiffs said in papers asking 
for a temporary restraining order.  Darren Robbins of San Diego law firm Lerach Coughlin Stoia 
Geller Rudman & Robbins LLP, a lead attorney in the case, told 
Reuters in a phone interview that the papers requesting an 
injunction were filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County in 
Atlanta.  Shareholders seeking to halt the severance had filed a 
previous lawsuit alleging former Home Depot executives and 
board members had awarded back-dated stock options and approved 
excessive pay.  Nardelli, who resigned from Atlanta-based Home Depot last 
week by mutual agreement with the board, received severance of 
$210 million under his employment contract. The sum included 
cash severance of $20 million, unvested deferred stock awards 
of about $77 million and other payments.  "It's our understanding that the full payments have not 
been made yet," Robbins said. The lead plaintiff in the case 
was the Pontiac, Michigan, retirement system for public 
employees, he added.  Home Depot spokesman Jerry Shields said the company had not 
seen the motion and therefore was not able to comment.  News of the severance further enraged shareholders who had 
long argued that Nardelli was overpaid during his six years at 
the helm of Home Depot, whose stock underperformed smaller 
rival Lowe's Cos. ( LOW.N ) and the Standard & Poor's 500.  U.S. Rep. Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial 
Services Committee, said the severance pact was "further 
confirmation of the need to deal with a pattern of CEO pay that 
appears to be out of control."
  DIRECTORS UNDER PRESSURE  The home improvement industry leader, which named Frank 
Blake as its new chairman and CEO, faces more scrutiny from 
activist shareholders who are pressing the board for corporate 
governance changes.  Last month, Ralph Whitworth, head of San Diego-based 
Relational Investors, said he planned to nominate at least two 
directors for election at Home Depot's annual meeting this 
year.  Other shareholders have said they filed proposals for the 
2007 annual meeting seeking to split the roles of chairman and 
CEO and require investor approval of "extraordinary" retirement 
benefits for officers.  Home Depot said this week its directors had approved a 
change in company bylaws to require that two-thirds of 
independent directors approve CEO pay. Previously, the bylaws 
required that a majority of independent board members approve 
CEO compensation.  Home Depot shares rose 46 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $39.78 
on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday.