-- Lucentis,cancer drugs lift Genentech profit
-- By  Bill Berkrot
-- Wed Jan 10, 2007 10:07pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/11/businesspro-genentech-results-dc-idUSWEN206720070111

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Genentech Inc. DNA.N said on 
Wednesday its fourth-quarter profit jumped 75 percent on 
surging sales of Lucentis, its new treatment for the leading 
cause of blindness in the elderly, and rising demand for its 
cancer drugs, and its shares rose 1.3 percent after hours. 

  Lucentis, which was almost immediately adopted as the first 
treatment option for age-related macular degeneration and has 
been vanquishing the competition since its June approval, had 
sales of $217 million in only its second full quarter on the 
market, topping even the most aggressively raised Wall Street 
estimates for just over $200 million.  Lucentis sales of $153 million in the previous quarter had 
crushed analyst expectations of $32 million to $40 million.  Genentech, which is majority owned by Swiss drug maker 
Roche Holding AG ( ROG.VX ), said in October it expected 2006 
full-year earnings per share growth of 65 percent to 70 
percent, excluding items, and it delivered a 74 percent 
increase for the year.  "We recognize that our recent success has raised the bar in 
terms of what the pipeline needs to look like to drive our 
continued growth," Chief Executive Arthur Levinson said.  "Building our pipeline (of drugs in development) is our No. 
1 priority," he said, noting that Genentech at the end of 2006 
had 30 projects in late stage research.  The company expects earnings per share to grow 25 percent 
to 30 percent in 2007, excluding items.  "It was a totally solid quarter," said RBC Capital Markets 
analyst Jason Kantor. "The highlight here is the guidance on 
top of the fourth quarter beat."  But Geoffrey Porges, an analyst for Sanford Bernstein fully 
expects that earnings forecast to be raised considerably.  Genentech Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman said the 
earnings forecast would indeed be updated "as we move deeper 
into the year."  The world's second largest biotechnology company posted a 
net profit of $594 million, or 55 cents per share, compared 
with $339 million, or 31 cents per share, a year ago.  Excluding items Genentech, earned 61 cents per shares. 
Analysts on average expected 55 cents, excluding the 4 cent 
cost of expensing stock compensation, according to Reuters 
Estimates.  Total revenue for the quarter of $2.71 billion exceeded 
analyst estimates of $2.54 billion, as sales of its key drugs 
all grew by double digits over 2005 levels.  U.S. sales of Avastin, the colon cancer drug that in 
October was approved to also treat lung cancer, surged 36 
percent to $490 million for the quarter, edging Wall Street 
expectations of about $485 million.  The company said it was working on putting together a 
program under which annual Avastin costs per patient would be 
capped at $55,000.  Breast cancer treatment Herceptin saw U.S. sales jump 29 
percent to $322 million for the quarter, topping $1 billion for 
the year for the first time at $1.23 billion. U.S. sales of 
Rituxan for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and rheumatoid arthritis 
rose 16 percent to $560 million.  "This fully demonstrates the strength of this company's 
business model," Porges said of the quarterly results.  "You've got strong performance from Herceptin, pretty good 
performance from Avastin, a tremendous pickup in Lucentis and a 
nice lift in royalties," Porges said. "Everything seems to be 
working and they put up a huge revenue number."  Ian Clark, head of commercial operations, said the most 
significant drivers of future growth are likely to be Avastin 
and Lucentis.  Avastin is currently being tested for use in several other 
types of cancer, including breast and kidney cancers, and in 
combination with other medicines.  The company said Lucentis sales could be impacted by lower 
dose frequency needed in the second year of treatment, but 
added that could be offset by adding new patients.  Genentech shares rose to $84.83 in extended electronic 
trading from their Nasdaq close at $83.73.  (Additional reporting by Deena Beasley in San Francisco)