-- Carrefour Q4 sales disappoint
-- By Caroline Jacobs
-- Thu Jan 11, 2007 4:16pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/11/businesspro-carrefour-sales-dc-idUSN1147242020070111

 

 PARIS  (Reuters) - Carrefour's sales grew at a 
slower-than-expected pace in the fourth quarter of 2006, which 
the French retailer on Thursday blamed on fewer shopping days 
and stiff competition in Europe in October. 

  The world's second largest retailer had already warned that 
the last quarter was tougher than the previous three, but 
analysts were disappointed, wondering if Carrefour was losing 
out to rivals and to what extent profitability would suffer.  Financial director Eric Reiss told an analyst conference 
call that offers and price cuts had been heavier in October 
than in the rest of 2006, chiefly in France, but that Carrefour 
had refused to follow its rivals' aggressive "short-term" 
promotions.  That month, like-for-like sales in Europe dropped nearly 5 
percent against a rise of 2.3 percent in the first nine months 
of the year. E.Leclerc and Intermarche are Carrefour's main 
rivals in France, which represents about half of group sales.  "The numbers aren't good. They show a return to stiff price 
competition and it is worrying that Carrefour does not seem to 
be able to pursue promotions launched by its rivals, even 
though it has invested heavily in price," a Paris-based analyst 
said.  Quarterly sales rose 2.8 percent to 23.527 billion euros 
($30.47 billion), up 3.9 percent at constant exchange rates 
from the year-ago period. The figure compared with the 24.046 
billion euro average of a Reuters poll of 17 analysts.  Closely-watched like-for-like sales in France fell 2.3 
percent to 10.987 billion euros and at Carrefour hypermarkets 
or suburban megastores they were 6.162 billion euros, down 1.7 
percent like-for-like and excluding the sale of petrol.  Both numbers missed the poll's average projection for sales 
in France, which represents about half of the group's revenues, 
of 11.287 billion euros and for hypermarkets of 6.304 billion 
euros.  "I thought the numbers were poor," a London-based analyst 
said. "My question is whether the margin is going to come down 
dramatically in the fourth quarter ... although it sounded they 
were protecting margins by not chasing promotions."  Reiss declined to comment on the group's margin 
development, reiterating only that the growth in operating 
profit would be slower in 2006 than sales at constant exchange 
rates. Carrefour's earnings are due in March.  "We remain confident and determined, our convictions remain 
unchanged," Reiss said, later adding: "We are extremely 
cautious about our competitive environment. We are going to 
keep our price leadership, but we are not going (to) outbid on 
short-term aggressive promotion ... to buy short-term volumes 
and sales."  While October was a "low point," Reiss said the subsequent 
months showed an improvement and that the second half of 
December was "far better" than the first, showing that shoppers 
tend to leave purchases until the last moment.  Oddo Securities analyst Nicolas Champ said the group's 
earnings confirmation for the year showed the past quarter's 
weak performance would have a limited impact on profitability.  Quarterly non-food sales at French hypermarkets fell 4 
percent like-for-like, undermined by a drop in sales of music 
and videos, while the exceptionally mild autumn and winter 
weather held back clothes purchases, the company said. Apparel 
represents one third of Carrefour's non-food hypermarket sales.  The retailer expected efforts to boost non-food sales by 
adding service and changing its product offers to begin paying 
off in the second half of 2007. Non-food rose 1.8 percent in 
the third quarter, but fell in the earlier quarters.  Outside France, like-for-like sales were a mixed picture. 
In Europe, they were down 2 percent as Carrefour's sales took a 
hit in October at its hypermarkets in Spain, its second largest 
market. In Asia, they fell 2.4 percent, while Carrefour sales 
were up 6.8 percent in Latin America, thanks to Argentina.  For the year, group sales rose 6.6 percent, or 6.3 percent 
at constant exchange rates, to 87.422 billion euros. Carrefour 
had forecast sales on that basis would beat the 4.3 percent 
figure posted in 2005. The group's food market share expanded 
0.5 percent in 2006.  Carrefour shares underperformed the retail index .SXRP> by 
0.4 percent this year and closed 1 percent higher on Thursday 
at 46.77 euros. They added 16.1 percent in 2006, but began a 
decline in October.  (Additional reporting by Noelle Mennella)