-- China govt to advance Las Vegas Sands' resort plan
-- 
-- Thu Jan 11, 2007 4:34am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/11/businesspro-lasvegassands-hengqin-dc-idUSHKG25633720070111

 

 NEW YORK/HONG KONG  (Reuters) - Las Vegas Sands' ( LVS.N ) 
proposal to develop a resort on a little-known Chinese island 
had won government support, the firm said on Thursday, after 
its shares surged more than a 10th on an analyst's report that 
the $9-$12 billion project had secured approval. 

  The world's top casino operator by market value had won 
approval to build a resort on Hengqin Island, near the Chinese 
gambling mecca of Macau, Jefferies & Co. analyst Lawrence 
Klatzkin wrote in a research note, citing Sands management.  Such a project would come on top of its elaborate, 
multibillion-dollar plans for casinos in Macau and bolster its 
position as one of the leading resort developers in Asia.  But the corporation stressed on Thursday that the project 
awaited official approval, and that the government of the city 
of Zhuhai -- which oversees Hengqin -- had merely set up a 
group to help "advance" the plan.  Also, the company did not say if the central government -- 
which typically gets involved in multibillion dollar deals 
involving multinationals -- had got involved at this stage.  "While the formation of a Project Coordination Committee is 
a positive step forward, the project remains subject to 
governmental approvals customary for projects of this scale," 
it said in a statement.  Shares of the company closed up 11.3 percent at $102.81 on 
the New York Stock Exchange, setting a fresh 52-week high.  Las Vegas Sands has said its plan for Hengqin Island covers 
roughly 80 million square feet of space, with the company 
expecting the development to cost $9 billion to $12 billion 
over the next 10 years or so.  It has said it plans to spend $400 million initially on the 
resort and have part of it open by the summer of 2008.  The company hoped to break ground on the project -- The 
Venetian Hengqin International Convention and Resort Project in 
Zhuhai -- before the Chinese New Year in February, Klatzkin 
wrote.  The Las Vegas Sands has set up its first casino in the 
former Portuguese enclave of Macau -- now the world's largest 
in terms of tables -- and is months away from opening The 
Venetian Macau.