-- Bies says U.S. lenders should tighten standards
-- 
-- Thu Jan 11, 2007 10:58am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/11/businesspro-usa-fed-bies-dc-idUSN1141709120070111

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Governor Susan Bies 
said on Thursday looser underwriting standards were partly 
responsible for recent rises in late mortgage payments and that 
lenders should tighten risk management practices. 

  Bies was speaking to a risk management conference sponsored 
by the National Credit Union Administration and was referring 
to increasing delinquencies among so-called subprime borrowers 
who are considered higher risks.  "Many industry observers believe the poor performance of 
more recently originated subprime loans is due primarily to 
looser underwriting standards, including limited or no 
verification of borrower income and high loan-to-value 
transactions," Bies said. She added that lenders need to be 
"specially diligent" when making such loans.  Bies said a number of factors, including a significant 
slowing in home price appreciation, meant "some borrowers may 
be having more difficulty in refinancing to avoid foreclosure." 
She said banking supervisors were discussing what could be done 
to make subprime loans safer but in the meantime, lenders need 
to reconsider making loans without adequate documentation.  Bies said regulators were seeing more instances of lenders 
combining nontraditional loans -- those that defer repayment of 
principal and sometimes of interest -- with "risk layering" 
practices, like not evaluating a borrower's ability to pay if 
interest rates rise.  She warned that lenders are at increasing risk of facing 
losses on those loans than in the past. A less buoyant housing 
market raises chances that marginal borrowers may get into 
trouble.  Bies noted that banking regulators had advised lenders last 
September to beware of the risks associated with nontraditional 
loans. She said supervisors "are concerned that current 
risk-management practices may not fully address the entire set 
of risks inherent in nontraditional mortgages -- risks that 
could be heightened by current market conditions."