-- Global interest rates locked in upward mode
-- By  Brian Love
-- Thu Jan 11, 2007 11:51am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/11/businesspro-economy-rates-global-dc-idUSL1171601120070111

 

 PARIS  (Reuters) - An upward shift in global interest rates 
looked more than ever inevitable after a surprise increase by 
the Bank of England on Thursday and signals of more to come 
from the central banks of Switzerland and the euro zone. 

  One thing left open was precisely when the European Central 
Bank plans to pounce but ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet left 
little doubt among economists that the bank is considering 
another rise in March if the economy goes as well as it seems 
to be now.  "We have the sentiment that global growth is still very 
encouraging," he told a news conference after the governing 
council of the European Central Bank met and left its key rate, 
which has risen six times in a year, on hold at 3.5 percent.  After signals in recent days that counter those reckoning 
on a rate cut soon by the Federal Reserve to shore up a slowing 
U.S. economy, Trichet flung his weight behind the Fed view of a 
smooth and manageable deceleration.  "I think the Fed has been vindicated, that the slowing down 
in the U.S. will be an orderly slowing down," he said, adding 
that the outlook for economic growth in the emerging market 
economies of the world was good.
  NOBODY'S DONE JUST YET  The surprise of the day came from Britain, where the Bank 
of England raised interest rates to their highest in nearly six 
years in its third quarter-point rise since August, to 5.25 
percent.  And it predicted inflation rising further before easing 
back toward the target of 2.0 percent that it uses as a 
benchmark.  Swiss National Bank Chairman Jean-Pierre Roth did nothing 
either to dent market expectations for further rises from him 
after a fifth increase in December that took the key rate there 
to 2.0 percent.  By publicly reiterating his concern over the weakness of 
the Swiss franc, which has been hovering near eight-year lows 
of late, Roth's declarations compounded the rationale for 
further rises.  "We are in phase of normalizing rates," he said. "We will 
go on as long as we are not convinced price stability is 
assured on the horizon of two to three years, which it is not 
yet. A weaker franc interferes with the goal of price 
stability," he said.  From Frankfurt, Trichet's message to the financial markets 
was that they were doing nothing very wrong in betting on a 
rise around the end of the first quarter, prompting most 
analysts to interpret that as a likely move if March.  "I would say nothing here that would change expectations by 
the market that we could do something at the end of the first 
quarter," he said.  "I would not say anything that would contradict that..."  After the British hike, economists said more could be 
coming from that side too and futures markets quickly moved to 
reflect the possibility of two more hikes before year-end.  "Markets are going to be wondering if this marks a more 
intensive process of monetary tightening," said Peter Dixon, 
economist at Commerzbank.  "Is the Bank going to raise again? That's the question that 
is going to be ringing round the dealing rooms this afternoon."  Add to that the Bank of Japan -- the timing of the next 
rise there remains hard to gauge but there again the guesswork 
is all about timing rather than the fact that the next move is 
up.  Even if Trichet sounded a little less strident is his use 
of the jargon analysts count on for timing hints, he was 
decidedly bullish about the outlook for growth, the main thing 
that might hold him back from raising rates to curb inflation.  He even went as far as suggesting the global growth for 
this year would be broadly similar if a touch lower than last 
year.  The International Monetary Fund has forecasts 5.1 percent 
growth in global gross domestic product for 2006 and around 4.9 
for 2007, although IMF officials say a slight downward tweak 
for 2007 is possible.  (with reporting from London, Zurich and Frankfurt)