-- Home Depot investors seek more governance changes
-- 
-- Thu Jan 11, 2007 2:55pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/11/businesspro-homedepot-governance-dc-idUSN1137616020070111

 

 ATLANTA  (Reuters) - Investors are turning up the heat on 
the Home Depot Inc. ( HD.N ) board of directors to make more 
corporate governance changes following the departure last week 
of Chairman and CEO Robert Nardelli, who had been under fire 
for his pay package. 

  This week, shareholders asked a Georgia state court to 
block Home Depot from paying Nardelli a $210 million severance 
package.  Richard Metcalf, corporate affairs director for the 
Laborers International Union of North America, a Home Depot 
stockholder, said a scheduled meeting of the company's 
compensation committee on Thursday would be an opportunity for 
the board to show it endorses policies to ensure that big 
severance packages aren't repeated with future officers.  "Our general view is that this board needs to evolve," 
Metcalf said. "There needs to be new independent blood on that 
board, and particularly on the compensation committee."  A Home Depot spokesman said the retailer does not comment 
on internal meetings.  In the wake of Nardelli's exit, Home Depot has changed some 
of its governance practices. This week, it said the board 
approved a bylaw change to require that two-thirds of 
independent directors approve CEO pay, up from majority 
approval previously.  The company also said it had amended its governance 
guidelines to allow it to recoup incentive payments from senior 
executives if they knowingly engage in fraudulent or illegal 
conduct that leads to a change in the metrics on which the pay 
was based.  The retailer said it adopted the so-called "clawback" 
provision based on input from shareholders, including the 
California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers.  Metcalf, whose union is seeking shareholder approval of any 
"extraordinary" retirement benefits for Home Depot officers, 
also took issue with the retailer's decision to waive the 
retirement age of 72 for three directors who were due to step 
down this year.  Home Depot said it waived the age requirement for John 
Clendenin, Claudio Gonzales and Milledge Hart III for one year 
to ensure a smooth transition for the management of new 
Chairman and CEO Frank Blake.  "Frankly, we're not persuaded by that (reasoning)," Metcalf 
said. "It is time to make changes on that board."  Home Depot shares were up 27 cents to $40.05 in afternoon 
trading on the New York Stock Exchange.