-- UPDATE 2-Wal-Mart sees improvment in health plan enrollment
-- 
-- Thu Jan 11, 2007 2:33pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/11/walmart-insurance-idUSN1139215320070111

 

  (Recasts throughout. Adds activist comment.) 

 CHICAGO  Jan 11 (Reuters) - A greater percentage of
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) employees signed up for the
retailer's health plans during the latest enrollment period
than a year earlier, but a majority still opt to be covered
elsewhere or have no insurance, Wal-Mart said on Thursday.  Of Wal-Mart's 1.3 million workers, 47.4 percent are covered
covered by its health plans, up from 46 percent a year earlier,
a Wal-Mart spokesman said.  Another 43 percent have health care coverage through
another source, such as spouses, Medicare, the military or
another employer, Wal-Mart said in a statement.  That still leaves 9.6 percent of Wal-Mart employees without
any coverage, despite efforts the company has made to help
workers understand the importance of coverage, including
enrollment magazines, videos, conference calls and training
sessions.  Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, has long faced
criticism that it pays too little and offers inadequate health
care in the United States, forcing some people onto public
health-care assistance and into emergency rooms.  Wal-Mart said on Thursday that 76.3 percent of its work
force were eligible for health benefits in the most recent
open-enrollment period.  That beats the average of 59 percent of workers in the
retail sector who are eligible for benefits, Wal-Mart said,
citing a 2006 Kaiser Family Foundation survey. During a recent open-enrollment period, 636,391 workers
enrolled in a company plan, up 8 percent from 592,000 on Sept.
16, when the company compiled figures before its open
enrollment period, the spokesman said.  The release of Wal-Mart's insurance data prompted a rebuke
from activist group Wake-Up Wal-Mart, which took issue with
Wal-Mart data, noting media reports that said the company had
638,000 workers enrolled in its plan last year, which would
indicate the number of those enrolled fell.  The group also said the Wall Street Journal reported that
at the end of the enrollment period for last years plan 49
percent of employees were enrolled.  "Given the enormous cost American taxpayers must pay to
subsidize Wal- Mart's health care crisis, we call on Wal-Mart
to stop misleading the American people and our elected leaders
who expect, if nothing else, that America's largest private
employer will live up to it's health care responsibilities,"
Paul Blank, campaign director for the organization, said in a
statement.  The Wal-Mart spokesman, Dan Fogleman said that the 638,000
figure was erroneously reported, but could not account for the
49 percent figure.  Wal-Mart shares were up 36 cents at $47.64 on Thursday on
the new York Stock Exchange..
 (Additional reporting by Robert Macmillan in New York)



