-- Takahashi Goes Six Innings as Mets Shut Out Crosstown Rival Yankees 4-0
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-06-19T04:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/takahashi-goes-six-innings-as-mets-shut-out-crosstown-rival-yankees-4-0.html

          
          
             Hisanori Takahashi  pitched six
shut-out innings for the second time against the New York
Yankees as the Mets defeated their Major League Baseball
crosstown rival 4-0 to earn their eighth straight victory.  
 Takahashi, with 12 consecutive shutout innings against the
Yankees going back to May 21, allowed four hits and two walks,
while striking out three at Yankee Stadium. He improved his
record to 6-2 this season.  
 “It’s not like they have 15, 20 at-bats under their belt
off of him,” Yankee manager  Joe Girardi  said after Takahashi
kept his batters from reaching second base in the first five
innings. “I’m sure he’s even a little bit different now that
he’s stretched out more.”  
 Francisco Rodriguez  got his 16th save as he struck out
 Derek Jeter  and retired  Nick Swisher  on a foulout with the
bases loaded in the ninth inning.  
 The Mets (39-28,) have won three of their four meetings
this season against the (41-26) Yankees, who hold a 43-33 all-
time edge in their interleague games.  
 Ike Davis  put the Mets up 1-0 in the first inning with a
one-run single off  Javier Vazquez  (6-6), who surrendered three
hits, one run and three walks in seven innings for the loss.  
 Angel Pagan  doubled in the eighth inning to score  Ruben Tejada  and  Jose Reyes , while Reyes added a one-run single in
the ninth.  
 Reyes extended his hitting streak to 10 games, while
Yankee  Robinson Cano  snapped his 10-game streak, going hitless
for the 13th time this season.  
 The Yankees, meanwhile, are urging fans to arrive at the
stadium and be in their seats by 12:15 p.m. tomorrow for the
second in the three-game series, to participate in filming of
an Emmy Award-winning primetime television show. The team
declined to disclose the name of the show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        