-- Anadarko Says BP's `Reckless Decisions' Led to Spill
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-06-23T22:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/anadarko-says-bp-s-reckless-decisions-led-to-spill.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the Texas
oil company that owns 25 percent of the damaged well pouring
crude into the Gulf of Mexico, was sued by investors who said
the company made false statements about drilling safety.  
 The proposed class-action, or group suit, filed today in
federal court in New York, alleges Anadarko misled investors
about the safety of the Deepwater Horizon joint venture with  BP
Plc  and as a result, investors lost money on news that the well
couldn’t be capped. The rig exploded on April 20, killing 11
workers and  injuring 17 others.  
 The plaintiffs allege that on June 1, after news reports
about the failure to cap the well, shares fell about 20 percent
in a day, and another 20 percent on June 9, on news that the
company would be responsible for more than $1 billion in cleanup
costs.  
 “In the wake of this tragedy, defendants continued to
issue materially false and misleading statements representing
the company would likely incur only approximately $177.5 million
in liability,” the plaintiffs said. “However, these statements
were materially false and misleading.”  
 Hundreds of Thousands  
 John Christiansen , a spokesman for The Woodlands, Texas-
based Anadarko, said in an e-mail that the company believes the
suit “is without merit.”  
 The plaintiff, Anadarko shareholder  Jerry D. Goodwin ,
seeks to represent a class of hundreds of thousands of Anadarko
shareholders whose shares dropped in value from June 12, 2009
through June 9, 2010. The plaintiffs also allege that the
venture’s oil spill response was a “complete sham” and that
Anadarko knowingly undertook the joint venture despite the
“terrible safety record” of BP.  
 “As a result of these egregious and willful safety
violations, Anadarko, a 25 percent owner, was on notice of its
need to inspect and scrutinize the actions of its business
partner in operating the Macondo/Deepwater Horizon well site.”  
 The suit, which includes claims for securities fraud,
doesn’t specify any damages.  
 The suit is Jerry D. Goodwin v. Anadarko Petroleum, 10-CV-
4905, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net 
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        