-- Australians File Lawsuit Against Singapore Power Local Unit Over 2009 Fire
-- Claire Leow
-- 2010-06-19T09:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/australian-fire-victims-file-lawsuit-against-singapore-power-age-reports.html

          
          
             Some victims of Australia’s Feb. 7
2009, firestorm in Victoria state are suing a local unit of
Singapore Power, alleging poorly maintained electrical wires
sparked a deadly blaze, the Age newspaper reported online today.  
 Singapore Power is the island-state’s utility.  
 Lawyers representing more than 600 plaintiffs lodged a
class-action suit yesterday in Victoria’s Supreme Court,
claiming failure to maintain a 43-year-old power line or to
install a protective device called a vibration damper in a fire-
prone area sparked the firestorm, the report said, citing the
law firm Maurice Blackburn.  
 “SP AusNet’s electricity operating companies, SP Australia
Networks (Distribution) Ltd. and SP Australia Networks
(Transmission) Ltd., have been named as defendants in the
Kilmore East proceedings,” according to a statement from the
Australian unit,  SP Ausnet .  
 “While court proceedings are in progress, it would be
inappropriate for us to discuss any other part of the litigation
process,” it said, adding that the company would wait for the
findings of the Royal Commission report due at the end of July.  
 SP AusNet is listed on the Australian Exchange and
Singapore Exchange. The shares last traded on June 18 at 84.5
Australian cents (73 cents) in Australia, and S$1.02 (74 cents)
in  Singapore .  
 SP Ausnet is majority owned by Singapore Power and supplies
electricity to 620,000 customers in eastern and northern
Victoria, said Natasha Whalley, acting manager for corporate
communications of SP Ausnet, today by e-mail.  
 Link:  http://news.theage.com.au/breaking-news-national/hundreds -
sign-for-bushfire-class-action-20100619-yngh.html  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        