-- Australia Regulator Sets Date for BHP, Rio Finding
-- Elisabeth Behrmann
-- 2010-06-19T02:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/australia-regulator-sets-july-22-for-findings-on-bhp-rio-iron-ore-venture.html

          
          
             Australia’s competition regulator
will announce on July 22 its findings on a proposal by  BHP
Billiton Ltd . and  Rio Tinto Group  to combine Western Australia
iron ore operations, the regulator said on its  website .  
 Both companies this month responded to information
requests from the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission after the regulator delayed announcing its findings
from May 27.  
 Rio and  BHP , the world’s second- and third-largest  iron
ore  exporters, propose combining Australian operations in a 50-
50 venture to save at least $10 billion in costs. Some European
and Asian steelmakers oppose the plan on concern it might
reduce competition in the iron-ore market. The venture, agreed
to in June last year, will also be reviewed by the  European
Commission  and requires shareholder approval as well.  
 Besides regulatory hurdles, higher iron ore prices since
the announcement and Australia’s proposed 40 percent tax on
mining profits may alter the deal, analysts say. Under the
proposed terms, BHP agreed to pay Rio $5.8 billion to equalize
its contribution of assets to the venture. JPMorgan Chase & Co
said in a March report that Rio could ask for between $7.5
billion to $9.8 billion based on higher iron ore price
estimates.  
 Combined Value  
 “The fundamentals of putting the two businesses together
are still there,” UBS AG analyst  Glyn Lawcock  said today by
phone. “The joint venture is the biggest project for both
companies with the biggest upside potential, compared with
other project options.”  
 The combined value of the entity is estimated at about
$135 billion, Lawcock said.  
 Since Australia’s government announced its tax proposal on
mining profits, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton have campaigned
against the levy and want the government to exclude existing
projects and reconsider the rate.  
 “Uncertainty revolving around the resources tax has made
the tie-up less palatable,” said ANZ Banking Group Ltd. Senior
Commodity Strategist  Mark Pervan  by phone. “Valuation
parameters would have changed.”  
 The tax is due to start in 2012, with legislation to be
put to parliament in late 2011 if the center-left government is
re-elected at a national ballot due by April.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        