-- China Signals It Will End Yuan's Peg to Dollar, Citing Economic Recovery
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-20T08:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/china-signals-it-will-end-yuan-s-peg-to-dollar-citing-economic-recovery.html

          
          
             China said it will allow a more
flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old
peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit.  
 The decision was made after the world’s third-largest
economy improved, the central bank said in a statement on its
website yesterday, without indicating a timeframe for the change.
It ruled out a one-time revaluation, saying there is no basis
for “large-scale appreciation,” and kept the yuan’s 0.5
percent daily trading band unchanged.  
 “The recovery and upturn of the Chinese economy has become
more solid with the enhanced economic stability,” the People’s
Bank of China said. “It is desirable to proceed further with
reform of the renminbi exchange-rate regime and increase the
renminbi exchange-rate flexibility.”  
 The move may help deflect criticism from President
 Barack Obama  and other G-20 leaders, who have blamed China for
relying on an undervalued currency to promote exports. It also
affirms Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s policy of
encouraging China to loosen restrictions on the yuan while
resisting calls in Congress for trade sanctions. Geithner in
April delayed a report to lawmakers assessing whether China or
any other country is unfairly manipulating its exchange rate.  
 ‘Very Cautious’  
 A question-and-answer document published by the central
bank on its website today said Chinese companies will have time
to adapt to yuan changes and reaffirmed a government policy of
“gradualism” in exchange-rate reform. Increased yuan
flexibility and “two-way movements” by the currency will aid
management of the economy, it said.  
 Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-based economist at Australia and
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., said today’s statement
acknowledges that the yuan will appreciate and suggests daily
volatility may increase, while highlighting that the government
remains “very cautious” and will control the pace of gains.  
 “This is another small victory for  Tim Geithner ,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Global Economist  Jim O’Neill 
told Bloomberg Television in St. Petersburg, Russia.  
 “It makes it a lot more difficult for Washington and
Congress to do China bashing,” O’Neill said. “The Chinese are
increasingly confident they can make this adjustment to a
domestic-driven economy rather than the one relying on
 exporting  low-value-added stuff to the rest of the world.”  
 Geithner’s Praise  
 Geithner, in a statement, praised China’s decision and
added that “vigorous implementation would make a positive
contribution to strong and balanced global growth.” The Obama
administration received advance notice of the announcement, U.S.
officials said.  
 China, by moving on its currency ahead of the G-20
meeting June 26-27 in Toronto, has shifted attention to the
budget deficits of developed nations, said  Eswar Prasad , a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington.  
 “It can now argue that the G-20 leaders should focus on
the major determinants of global imbalances, especially the
buildup of debt in advanced economies,” said Prasad, a former
head of the China division at the International Monetary Fund.  
 Chinese authorities have prevented the currency from
strengthening since July 2008 to help exporters cope with
sliding demand triggered by the global financial crisis.  
 The currency appreciated 21 percent in the three years
after a peg to the dollar was scrapped in July 2005 and replaced
by a managed float against a basket of currencies
including the euro and the Japanese yen. The yuan is a
denomination of China’s currency, the renminbi.  
 ‘Vote of Confidence’  
 “This move is a vote of confidence in the global recovery
and a reaffirmation of Beijing’s longstanding commitment to a
flexible currency regime,”  Stephen Roach , chairman of Morgan
Stanley Asia Ltd., said in an e-mail. “This shift, however, is
not a panacea for an unbalanced global economy. Surplus savers
like China still need to take additional actions to stimulate
internal private consumption.”  
 Chinese companies focused on the domestic market, including
Beijing-based computer maker  Lenovo Group Ltd. , said in March
that they would gain from lower import costs and stronger
consumer purchasing power should the yuan appreciate. Textiles
makers would stand to lose the most and some would “face
bankruptcy,”  Zhang Wei , vice chairman of the China Council for
the Promotion of International Trade, said then.  
 Freedom to Move  
 A more flexible currency would give China more freedom to
decide on monetary policy and reduce inflationary pressures by
lowering import costs, the World Bank said last week. The
central bank agreed today, saying benefits could include curbing
price gains, asset bubbles and dependence on exports for growth.  
 China’s  inflation  rate jumped to a 19-month high
of 3.1 percent in May. Central-bank dollar buying has left the
nation with $2.4 trillion in currency  reserves , the world’s
largest holding.  
 Global stocks may rise on the potential benefits of the
policy shift for trading partners including the U.S.,  David Cohen , an economist at Action Economics in Singapore, said today.
Societe Generale SA said yuan-denominated A-shares may advance
tomorrow on the likelihood of currency gains boosting Chinese
companies’ purchasing power.  
 BHP Billiton Ltd.  and Rio Tinto Group, the world’s largest
and third-largest mining companies, may benefit from increased
Chinese demand, fund manager  Saxon Nicholls , of Herschel Asset
Management Ltd. in Melbourne, said today.  
 ‘Crisis’ Policy  
 “China has ended its crisis-mode exchange-rate policy as
the economy recovers strongly and inflationary pressure
continues to build,”  Li Daokui , an adviser on the People’s Bank
of China’s policy board, said in an interview yesterday. “The
yuan’s future trend depends on the euro’s movement, and the
trends of other major currencies.”  
 Yuan 12-month forwards rose the most this year two days ago,
gaining 0.5 percent to 6.7125 per dollar. The contracts reflect
bets the currency will appreciate 1.7 percent from the spot rate
of 6.8262. They had been pricing in appreciation of 3.2 percent
on April 30 before a slump in the euro and a worsening of
Europe’s debt crisis eased pressure for appreciation.  
 Geithner postponed an April 15 deadline for a semiannual
review of the currency policies of major U.S. trading partners,
which might have resulted in China being labeled a currency
manipulator. China  owned  $900 billion of U.S. Treasuries as of
April, the largest foreign holdings.  
 Export Rebound  
 China’s  overseas sales  jumped 48.5 percent in May from a
year earlier, the biggest gain in more than six years. A
narrowing balance-of-payments gap indicates that there’s no
basis for “large-scale appreciation” by the yuan, the central
bank said in the English version of yesterday’s statement. The
Chinese version said no “large-scale volatility.”  
 Twelve of 19 respondents surveyed by Bloomberg in April
predicted the central bank would allow the currency to float
more freely this quarter, while the rest saw a move by year-end.
Eleven ruled out a one-time revaluation, while 15 predicted a
wider daily trading range.  
 “Continued emphasis would be placed to reflecting market
supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies,”
yesterday’s statement said. That suggests a looser link to the
dollar, said  Ben Simpfendorfer , chief China economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, in Hong Kong.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 Xchen45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Yuan 12-month forwards rose the most this year yesterday, gaining 0.6 percent to 6.7081 per dollar. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
