-- China Shows Confidence in Recovery With Yuan Decision, Roach, O'Neill Say
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-06-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/china-shows-confidence-in-recovery-with-yuan-decision-roach-o-neill-say.html

          
          
             China’s decision to allow a more
flexible yuan shows the country’s leaders are convinced the
world economic rebound is durable, said economists  Stephen Roach 
and  Jim O’Neill .  
 “This move is a vote of confidence in the global
recovery,”  Roach , Chairman of  Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd. said in
an e-mail. “Markets are going to like” the decision, said Jim
O’Neill, chief global economist for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 China’s central bank said the decision to “increase the
renminbi’s exchange-rate flexibility” was made after the
world’s third-largest economy improved. Chinese authorities had
prevented the currency from strengthening since July 2008 to
help exporters cope with sliding demand triggered by the global
financial crisis.  
 The announcement yesterday may help restore investor
confidence shaken by the European debt crisis, O’Neill said in
an interview in St. Petersburg, Russia.  
 “It could be that China is doing its bit to rescue the
world markets,” he said. “It may allow for attention to be
diverted from the obsession with the European monetary union and
the sovereign currencies in Europe.”  
 China’s decision, a week before Group of 20 leaders meet in
Toronto to consider ways to safeguard the economic recovery, may
deflect criticism that its undervalued currency has added to
lopsided global flows of trade and investment. The announcement
signals an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar.  
 ‘Not a Panacea’  
 Even so, Roach said the shift “is not a panacea for an
unbalanced global economy.” Countries such as China with trade
surpluses will have to take steps to stimulate private demand,
he said, while countries such as the U.S. “need to show a
credible commitment to fiscal consolidation and take actions
that would boost personal saving.”  
 The People’s Bank of China ruled out a one-time
revaluation, saying there is no basis for “large-scale
appreciation,” and kept the yuan’s 0.5 percent daily trading
band unchanged. The yuan is a denomination of China’s currency,
the renminbi.  
 The currency appreciated 21 percent in the three years
after a peg to the dollar was scrapped in July 2005 and replaced
by a managed float against a basket of currencies including the
euro and the Japanese yen.  
 China’s announcement could be seen as a signal that the
“worst of the financial crisis is over, China is growing very
strongly, that this is an auspicious time to go back to the
policy that had initially been announced,”  Nicholas Lardy , a
senior fellow at the  Peterson  Institute for International
Economics in Washington, said in a telephone interview yesterday
with Bloomberg News.  
 Gains Unclear  
 Lardy said it’s unclear how much the currency will be
allowed to strengthen.  
 “I think if they had in mind some indication of a specific
amount, they might have announced that today. I would not
anticipate a second announcement; the markets are just going to
see.”  
 O’Neill predicted the yuan will appreciate 1 percent when
markets open June 21 and predicts a 5 percent appreciation by
year’s end.  
 Chinese exports have helped drive growth in the world’s
third-largest economy.  
 China’s  overseas sales  jumped 48.5 percent in May from a
year earlier, the biggest gain in more than six years. Exports
exceeded imports by $19.5 billion, from $1.68 billion in April
and a deficit of $7.24 billion in March that was the first in
six years.  
 Increasingly Confident  
 “The Chinese are increasingly confident they can make this
adjustment to a domestic-driven economy rather than the one
relying on exporting low-value-added stuff to the rest of the
world,” O’Neill said.  
 It remains to be seen if China’s decision is a “symbolic
move or a true shift in China’s currency policy that will result
in significant currency appreciation,”  Eswar Prasad , a senior
fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington and a former
IMF economist, said in an e-mail.  
 Still, “this move signifies recognition by Chinese
officials that a more flexible exchange rate is in China’s own
interest,” Prasad said.  
 Changes in China’s exchange rate may not have an impact on
the bilateral trade balance,  John Frisbie , president of the  U.S.
China Business Council  said in an e-mail.  
 “Much of what we import from China is stuff that we
imported from elsewhere before,” Frisbie said. “If we didn’t
import it from China, we’d likely just import it from somewhere
else.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net 
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        