-- Duncan Says Ontario Has No Plan to Sell Stakes in Government-Owned Firms
-- Alexandre Deslongchamps
-- 2010-06-19T19:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/duncan-says-ontario-has-no-plan-to-sell-stakes-in-government-owned-firms.html

          
          
             Ontario Finance Minister  Dwight Duncan  said today his province is not contemplating selling
equity in the biggest government-run corporations, including the
Liquor Control Board of Ontario and the Ontario Lottery and
Gaming Corp.  
 “There’s no plan whatsoever -- there’s nothing coming to
cabinet,” Duncan said in an interview before heading to Beijing
as part of a week-long trip to Asia.  
 The Toronto Star  reported  today that Ontario is considering
a proposal to raise as much as C$12 billion ($11.7 billion) by
combining the four largest government-owned corporations and
selling a 20 percent portion to pension funds and the public.
The Star, which didn’t identify the source of its information,
also said Premier  Dalton McGuinty  and his cabinet of ministers
will consider the proposal as early as next week.  
 Ontario last December established a committee to review its
assets and propose ideas to help replenish the province’s
coffers as it forecasts deficits until the 2017-18 fiscal year.
Duncan had said in March he wouldn’t proceed with any asset sale
until a “very robust public discussion” had taken place.  
 “We’ve had the report for some time, looked at the assets
-- we’ve done a good thorough study -- but the part about
selling C$12 billion, it’s just completely inaccurate,” Duncan
said. “Are we looking at smaller things? Possibly, but no
decision’s been made.”  
 Duncan also said Ontario’s economy expanded at a rate
similar to the 6.1 percent  annualized growth  recorded for Canada
in the first quarter and that was the fastest in a decade for
the U.S.’s largest trading partner.  
 “Whether it’s a little bit more or a little bit less, it’s
hard to say, but my sense is that Ontario is doing very well,
even relative to Canada,” Duncan said.  
 Canada’s most-populous province said in March it will issue
C$39.7 billion in bonds in 2010 and the minister said that
number hasn’t been lowered to reflect better-than-expected
growth.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Toronto at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        