-- Euro Has Biggest Weekly Gain Since May 2009 as European Debt Concern Eases
-- Ben Levisohn
-- 2010-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/euro-has-biggest-weekly-gain-since-may-2009-on-european-debt-concern-eases.html

          
          
             The euro rose the most this week
against the greenback in more than year as an easing in concern
over Europe’s debt crisis spurred traders to end bets the shared
shared currency would decline.  
 The euro appreciated for a second week versus the yen, the
first back-to-back weekly gains since March, as increased demand
at a Spanish bond sale and an agreement by European Union
leaders to disclose how banks perform on stress tests damped
investor worries about the region’s financial system. The dollar
fell versus the yen as Japan’s ruling party announced a deficit-
cutting plan and disappointing U.S. data increased speculation
the Federal Reserve would keep interest rates at a record low.  
 “The recent news out of Europe is reassuring,” said
 Camilla Sutton , a Bank of Nova Scotia currency strategist in
Toronto. “Europe will release the results of stress tests and
give the market the clarity it looked for. The U.S. will be on
hold for longer. That helped equities and boosted risk
appetite.”  
 The euro rose 2.3 percent to $1.2388 this week, the biggest
gain since the five days ended May 22, 2009, from $1.2112 on
June 11. It touched $1.2417 yesterday, the highest level since
May 28. Europe’s common currency rose 1.3 percent to 112.40 yen,
from 111 on June 11. The dollar fell 1 percent to 90.71 yen,
from 91.65 a week ago.  
 The common currency gained as futures traders decreased
their bets that the currency will decline against the U.S.
dollar to the lowest level since April, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  
 Short Covering  
 The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 62,360 on June
15, after dropping 44 percent from 111,945 a week earlier.  
 “Seventy percent of the euro’s gain was short covering,”
said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at FOREX.com, a unit of
online currency trading firm Gain Capital in Bedminster, New
Jersey. “The downside had become extreme, and sentiment was
extreme. It’s slow going on the way up. I think we’ll see losses
developing faster than recoveries.”  
 Spain sold 3 billion euros ($3.7 billion) of 10-year debt
on June 17 at an average yield of 4.864 percent, less than the
5.04 percent that the bonds traded at before the sale. Demand
was 1.89 times the amount on offer. It also sold 479.2 million
euros of 30-year debt at 5.908 percent, and the bid-to-cover
ratio was 2.45, higher than the 1.38 at the previous sale on
March 18.  
 ‘Cloud of Suspicion’  
 “We had the credit markets more or less stabilize,” said
 Boris Schlossberg , director of research at online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York. “That’s why the euro continues to
perform well.”  
 European Union leaders this week agreed to disclose how
banks perform on stress tests, seeking to show investors the
financial system can withstand financial shocks.  
 French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  yesterday said a
European Union decision to publish the results of stress tests
will “clear a cloud of suspicion that’s out there.” She made
the comments while attending the St. Petersburg Forum in Russia.  
 The pound gained this week the most versus the greenback
since the week of April 2 before of the U.K.’s announcement of
budget cuts on June 22, which may help it avoid the rising bond
yields afflicting Spain and Portugal.  
 ‘Investor Enthusiasm’  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is set to
outline the deepest spending cuts since at least the 1970s to
tame a budget deficit of 11 percent of gross domestic product
last fiscal year. U.K. government bond yields have fallen 0.339
percentage point since Prime Minister  David Cameron  took office
six weeks ago on expectations his coalition government will step
up the pace of deficit reduction.  
 The pound climbed 1.9 percent to $1.4824 this week from
$1.4552 on June 11. It fell 0.4 percent to 83.59 pence per euro.  
 The yen posted a second weekly gain versus the dollar after
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  pledged to cut the world’s
largest public debt. Kan said he’d consider an opposition party
proposal to raise the consumption tax.  
 BNY Mellon is “seeing net buying of the Japanese yen, not
so much as a risk aversion play, but because of investor
enthusiasm about Japan’s ruling party announcing a new plan to
combat deflation, reduce the budget deficit and restore
growth,”  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the foreign-
exchange group in Boston, wrote in a note to clients. BNY Mellon
is the world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20
trillion in assets under administration.  
 ‘Likely to Decelerate’  
 The greenback fell against all 16 major currencies this
week after the number of American’s filing for jobless benefits
for the first time rose, increasing speculation that economic
growth in the U.S. remains fragile.  
 Initial jobless claims in the U.S. increased by 12,000 to
472,000 in the week ended June 12, according to Labor Department
figures. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected 450,000
claims, according to the median forecast.  
 Futures trading on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a 36
percent chance that the Fed will raise its target rate for
overnight bank lending by at least a quarter-percentage point by
its January meeting, down from 55 percent odds one month ago.  
 The U.S. economy will stagnate in the second half of the
year as households, businesses and state and local governments
trim debt, according to  John Herrmann  of State Street Global
Markets in Boston.  
 “There is an incredible amount of deleveraging going on in
the economy,” Herrmann, a senior fixed-income strategy, said in
an interview June 17 on Bloomberg Radio with  Tom Keene .
“Organic growth in the economy is likely to decelerate” as
government stimulus fades and temporary census workers complete
their contracts, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Levisohn  in New York at 
 blevisohn@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Euro sign sculpture sits outside the European Central Bank (ECB) headquarters in Frankfurt. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
