-- GDF Suez, EDF Join Gazprom-Led Natural Gas Pipelines Projects to Europe
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-06-19T18:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/gdf-suez-edf-join-gazprom-led-natural-gas-pipelines-projects-to-europe.html

          
          
             Electricite de France SA and  GDF
Suez SA , two of France’s largest utilities, agreed to join
planned natural-gas pipelines to Europe, as Russia adds
international partners for its energy projects.  
 EDF will gain “at least” 10 percent in the South Stream
project planned to cross the Black Sea, while GDF Suez will take
a 9 percent stake in the OAO Gazprom-led Nord Stream gas
pipeline, being built under the Baltic Sea from Russia to
Germany.  
 “It is a good achievement,” GDF Chief Executive Officer
 Gerard Mestrallet  said today before the signing ceremony
attended by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and his French
counterpart Nicolas Sarkozy at the St. Petersburg International
Economic Forum.  
 Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas producer, plans to build
pipelines to Europe that will bypass transit countries such as
Ukraine and Belarus. Gas flows to the EU have been disrupted in
the past because of price disputes with the neighboring
countries. Gazprom has threatened to cut shipments to Belarus
supplies by 85 percent on June 21 if the country doesn’t pay a
$192 million for previously delivered fuel.  
 “Investments will be a key element in the security of
supplies,” Mestrallet said. He declined to comment on the price
for the stake.  
 EDF may gain as much as 20 percent in South Stream, Gazprom
Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  told reporters in St.
Petersburg today. The Russian gas producer doesn’t plan to cede
part of its 50 percent stake, he said. Italy’s Eni SpA, which
now holds 50 percent in the project, will transfer a stake to
EDF by the end of this year, he said.  
 BASF SE’s Wintershall AG unit and E.ON Ruhrgas AG had
agreed to sell 4.5 percent stakes in Nord Stream to GDF Suez,
lowering their shares to 15.5 percent each. Gazprom holds 51
percent in the venture, Nederlandse Gasunie NV has 9 percent.  
 The price for the stake isn’t “significant,” while it is
“above 10 million,” GDF Vice President  Jean-Francois Cirelli 
said in April, without specifying euros or dollars.  
 -- With assistance from  Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow and
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg. Editors:  Torrey Clark ,
 Dick Schumacher .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in St. Petersburg via Moscow newsroom at
   ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        