-- Geithner Welcomes China's Yuan Move, Calls for `Vigorous Implementation'
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-06-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/geithner-welcomes-china-s-yuan-move-calls-for-vigorous-implementation-.html

          
          
             U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called for China to follow up on its pledge to allow
more currency flexibility, while a leading Senate Democrat
demanded more details within days to prevent Congress from
pursuing trade sanctions.  
 “This is an important step, but the test will be how far
and how fast they let the currency appreciate,” Geithner said
in a statement yesterday in Washington. “Vigorous
implementation would make a positive contribution to strong and
balanced global growth.”  
 China signaled an end to a 23-month peg to the dollar that
fueled threats of retaliation from U.S. lawmakers, including
Senator  Charles Schumer , who argue that holding down the yuan’s
value unfairly favors Chinese exports. Geithner has urged China
to allow the yuan to appreciate, saying the peg is an impediment
to the global recovery.  
 President  Barack Obama , in a White House statement, called
China’s decision “a constructive step that can help safeguard
the recovery and contribute to a more balanced global economy.”  
 U.S. lawmakers reacted with more skepticism. Schumer, vice
chairman of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress and co-
sponsor of legislation that would allow for duties on Chinese
imports, said he was dissatisfied with a Chinese statement that
didn’t indicate the timing or amount of a yuan adjustment.  
 ‘Statement of Intentions’  
 “This vague and limited statement of intentions is China’s
typical response to pressure,” Schumer, a New York Democrat,
said in a statement yesterday. “We hope the Chinese will get
more specific in the next few days. If not, then for the sake of
American jobs and wealth, which are hurt every day by China’s
practices, we will have no choice but to move forward with our
legislation.”  
 Schumer was among Senate Finance Committee members who told
Geithner during a June 11 hearing that they were losing patience
with China.  
 China’s decision “must be meaningful to ensure American
ranchers, farmers and small businesses are competing on a level
playing field in the global economy,” the committee’s chairman,
Democrat  Max Baucus  of Montana, said in a statement yesterday.  
 Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the committee’s ranking
Republican, said the Obama administration and Congress “need to
keep the pressure on until China takes concrete actions to
appreciate its currency exchange rate in a meaningful way.”  
 More Flexibility  
 The Chinese central bank said yesterday it would increase
the yuan’s flexibility, while keeping its 0.5 percent daily
trading band and finding no basis for “large-scale
appreciation.” People’s Bank of China adviser  Li Daokui  said
the policy would allow exchange-rate “normalization” that
would reflect trends in the euro and other major currencies.  
 Reports this month from the U.S. and China highlighted
concern that trade imbalances, which reached record levels
before the global financial crisis, may be reemerging. Chinese
exports climbed 48.5 percent in May from a year earlier, the
most in six years after adjusting for distortions from the Lunar
New Year holidays.  
 U.S. imports of Chinese goods exceeded exports to China by
$71 billion, a 5.7 percent increase in the bilateral trade gap
from the year-earlier period.  
 China’s decision on the yuan comes the weekend before
leaders of the Group of 20 nations meet in Toronto, and the
European Commission welcomed China’s decision, saying it “sends
a signal of confidence on the strength of the global recovery at
a time when downside risks have increased.”  
 ‘Positive Gesture’  
 The move is “a positive gesture,” said  Jeremie Waterman ,
who oversees the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s China section in
Washington. “We hope it is an indication that China will allow
increased flexibility of its exchange rate in line with the
strength of its economy and its own interest in having a more
independent monetary policy.”  
 A manufacturing trade group shared the lawmakers’
skepticism.  
 “I will believe it when I see it,” Scott Paul, executive
director of the Alliance for American Manufacturing in
Washington, said in an e-mailed statement. “Unless the move is
rapid and significant, China’s announcement is nothing more than
a cynical ploy ahead of the G-20 and in the wake of mounting
congressional pressure.  America’s workers and businesses still
believe that a strong response from Congress is warranted.”  
 Geithner, 48, in April opted to delay a legally required
report to Congress that assesses whether China or any other
country is unfairly manipulating its  exchange  rate, saying he
would revisit the report after the G-20 meetings.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy and trade. 
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for  “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the impact of a change in China's currency policy.
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports on China's currency policy, and implications for the nation's economy and global trade.
     China’s signal of an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar may accelerate a shift toward domestic demand as the prime driver of growth as President Hu Jintao seeks to strengthen household incomes. Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's currency policy. 
     China said on June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Qu, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy and the nation's demand for U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
