-- IBM Creates U.S. Open App to Track Tiger Woods, Showcase Web Technology
-- Ryan Flinn
-- 2010-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/ibm-creates-u-s-open-app-to-track-tiger-woods-showcase-web-technology.html

          
          
             International Business Machines
Corp. , a sponsor of this week’s U.S. Open golf tournament, is
counting on  Tiger Woods ,  Phil Mickelson  and the rest of the
world’s top golfers to showcase its Web technology.  
 The company developed a smartphone app that lets users
track the tournament and players’ statistics. It even shows a
so-called heat map of the course in Pebble Beach, California,
revealing the most challenging holes. IBM also helps manage
security, video and other features for the U.S. Open’s website.  
 IBM’s strategy isn’t about reaching more golf-loving
consumers. Instead, it wants to show business customers how its
technology can handle a huge surge in traffic without breaking
the bank. While the number of people using the  U.S. Open  site
jumped from a year earlier, IBM was able to cut the cost per
user by 25 percent, said John Kent, program manager for the
company’s sponsorship marketing.  
 “When we talk to our customers about that, they have the
very same issues,” Kent said.  
 IBM  declined to say how much it spends on the U.S. Open or
what kind of return it gets from the event. The Armonk, New
York-based company also sponsors the Masters Golf Tournament, as
well as the U.S. Open tennis match and Wimbledon.  
 IBM fell 83 cents to $130.15 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange  trading . The shares are little changed this year.  
 IPad Version  
 This is the second year in a row that  IBM  has offered an
iPhone app for the U.S. Open. About 286,000 people downloaded
the software last year. This time around, it also runs on  Apple
Inc. ’s iPad and other smartphones such as the Droid. IBM already
had 150,000 downloads by the first day of play.  
 The software gives up-to-the-minute scores and data for
each competitor, and the map indicates whether players are
shooting above or below par on each hole. The website also has
high-definition coverage of the tournament.  
 IBM invites corporate customers to see its Web operations
up close by visiting a trailer near the course. A staff of more
than a dozen, supplied with Twizzlers and a mini-fridge filled
with energy drinks, monitors global Internet security threats
and viewership numbers.  
 “Our clients love golf,” said Rick Singer, IBM’s vice
president for client executive marketing. “These relationships
are all about business, and how we can further the perception of
IBM, and really sell stuff.”  
 On the first day of the tournament, the heat map showed the
difficulty of the Pebble Beach course, which is located about
two hours from San Francisco. Woods and Mickelson, the world’s
two best golfers, failed to make a single birdie -- a score
that’s one stroke under par -- during the opening round.  
 Inside  IBM ’s trailer, the heat map was displayed on a 52-
inch flat screen. Kent pointed to a red blob where players were
performing better than expected.  
 “It looks like six is the only ‘easy’ hole out there,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        