-- Kagan E-Mails Show Wide Policy Involvement in Clinton Years
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/kagan-e-mails-show-wide-policy-involvement-in-clinton-administration-years.html

          
          
             Elena Kagan  offered politically
attuned advice on abortion, campaign finance rules and gun
safety when she served in the Clinton White House, thousands of
newly released e-mails show.  
 She also may have used electronic messaging sparingly.
While the National Archives yesterday released 102 boxes of
messages sent to her, there were only 16 filled with e-mails she
composed. Her e-mails were also generally succinct and
businesslike, with occasional exceptions.  
 The  William J. Clinton Presidential Library  made public the
final batch of documents to be distributed before the Senate
Judiciary Committee begins hearings June 28 on Kagan’s
nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court. Republicans said the
material gives them pause on whether she can become an impartial
justice.  
 In a 1997 e-mail, Kagan ridiculed a biblical reference in a
draft of Clinton’s State of the Union address, calling it “the
most preposterously presumptuous line I have ever seen.”  
 His speech that year called on Americans to fight bigotry
and intolerance, quoting a passage from the Book of Isaiah about
being “the repairer of the breach.”  
 Republican Senate leaders said the documents, covering her
time at the White House from 1995 to 1999 when Clinton was
president, have fortified their opposition to the nomination.  
 Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  said lawmakers
must be convinced that a former political adviser and academic
can make the leap to the impartial role of a judge and not be a
“rubber stamp” for President  Barack Obama .  
 ‘Necessary Transition’  
 “The Clinton library documents make it harder -- not
easier -- to believe that Ms. Kagan could make that necessary
transition,” McConnell said in a Senate floor speech yesterday.  
 Senate Judiciary Committee  Chairman  Patrick Leahy  said the
records, including 80,000 newly released e-mails, have produced
an “unprecedented volume of materials” to review.  
 “The evaluation of her record and qualifications has been
the most open and transparent in history,” the Vermont Democrat
said. “There is no chapter from her professional life for which
we do not have significant records.”  
 Obama nominated Kagan, 50, on May 10 to replace retiring
Justice  John Paul Stevens  on the nine-member high court. A
former dean of Harvard Law School, she is now U.S. solicitor
general, the Obama administration’s chief courtroom lawyer.  
 The release marked the first time a former White House
aide’s e-mails will be under broad scrutiny in confirmation
hearings for a high court nominee.  
 Electronic Messaging  
 Electronic messaging wasn’t the primary form of White House
communications when  John Roberts  was working for President
 Ronald Reagan . The chief justice is the only other recent
Supreme Court nominee to have served at the White House.  
 Kagan worked in the counsel’s office for Clinton in 1995
and 1996 before becoming deputy director of the White House’s
Domestic Policy Council, where she stayed into 1999.  
 On June 22, 1998, she received an e-mail saying that
Republican Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah was planning to do an
event with Democratic Senators  Dianne Feinstein  of California
and  Robert Torricelli  of New Jersey on his “juvie” bill, a
reference to a juvenile crime bill. The White House officials
hadn’t yet seen the language.  
 “This hatch-feinstein-torricelli alliance is getting
awfully bothersome,” Kagan wrote back, dispensing with
capitalization.  
 Her political pragmatism was often on display.  
 Satcher Nomination  
 She cautioned in a 1997 e-mail that a White House press
spokesman shouldn’t confirm, even anonymously, that  David Satcher  would be nominated as an assistant health secretary
because “some of his writings might be controversial” and
hadn’t been thoroughly reviewed. Satcher was confirmed to the
position and later appointed U.S. surgeon general.  
 Kagan also said that conflict with the Republican-
controlled Congress had political benefits. In a 1997 memo about
gun safety legislation, she wrote that “the prospect of getting
into a fight with Congress on this one doesn’t strike me as so
bad.”  
 One e-mail indicates that she played a role in the December
1995 White House debate over whether Clinton should veto
legislation to make it harder for shareholders to press
securities lawsuits.  
 Clinton surprised supporters of the measure when he decided
to veto the bill, saying he worried it would thwart individuals
with legitimate cases. He had to make a decision on the day he
issued his veto, or it would have become law without his
signature.  
 The following day, Kagan sent an e-mail to her boss, White
House Counsel  Jack Quinn , thanking him for letting her play a
role.  
 “It was an unbelievable thrill,” she wrote. Congress
later overrode Clinton’s veto.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laura Litvan   in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        