-- Karzai Invites Mitsubishi to Invest in Developing Afghan Mining Projects
-- Sachiko Sakamaki
-- 2010-06-19T09:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/karzai-invites-mitsubishi-to-invest-in-developing-afghan-mining-projects.html

          
          
             Afghan  President  Hamid Karzai 
invited Japanese companies including  Mitsubishi Corp . to invest
in mining projects in his country to express his gratitude for
Japanese aid.  
 “We want to return some of the good Japan has done for
us,” Karzai said today in a speech at Doshisha University in
Kyoto. “I had a meeting with Mitsubishi yesterday for that
purpose.”  
 The Afghan leader has sought to raise global interest in
his country’s mineral wealth while assuring leaders his
government can be trusted. Karzai assured Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  on June 17 that international aid won’t be squandered.  
 The U.S. is promoting development of Afghanistan’s
estimated $1 trillion in untapped mineral wealth as a means to
stabilize Karzai’s government against Taliban insurgents. At
the same time the U.S. and other nations are pushing Karzai to
show he can effectively run the country amid reports of rampant
government corruption.  
 In a joint statement on June 17 Kan asked Karzai to ensure
Japan’s aid money is “effectively utilized.” Japan pledged
last November to provide as much as $5 billion over the next
five years for Afghan reconstruction efforts.  
 Karzai’s visit to Japan is his first since beginning his
second term in November and the fourth of his administration.
Yesterday Karzai told reporters in Tokyo he anticipates an
international “rivalry” to tap Afghanistan’s minerals.  
 U.S. Pressure  
 Kan’s pressing of Karzai to safeguard aid money follows
U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi saying last month that
Congress’s support for more spending on U.S. troops in
Afghanistan hinges on whether he can demonstrate his commitment
to ending government graft.  
 President Barack Obama made an unannounced visit to
Afghanistan in March to meet with Karzai to discuss the issue,
as well as improving government functions so the U.S. can begin
handing over security.  
 In February, Afghanistan said it would start a new bidding
process for one of the world’s richest iron ore deposits, after
allegations that Mohammad Ibrahim Adel, then minister of mines,
took more than $20 million in bribes on a previous license.
Adel, who was replaced, denied that charge.  
 U.S.-Afghan relations became strained last year after the
leak of diplomatic cables from U.S. Ambassador Karl Eikenberry
that were critical of Karzai’s leadership. Karzai was rebuked
publicly by U.S. officials over allegations of widespread
irregularities in last August’s presidential election.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Le  in Osaka at 
 ale14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        