-- Nadal Runs Toward Tennis History at Wimbledon on Path to Career Grand Slam
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-20T23:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/nadal-runs-toward-tennis-history-at-wimbledon-on-path-to-career-grand-slam.html

          
          
             Rafael Nadal  got a running start in
his quest to regain the championship at Wimbledon, his immediate
goal before he bids for a breakthrough U.S. Open title and a
place in one of the most elite groups in tennis.  
 Hours after winning his fifth French Open and returning to
the No. 1 ranking in men’s tennis, Nadal jogged through the Gare
du Nord in Paris to catch a train to London, where he’s seeded
to meet six-time Wimbledon champion  Roger Federer  in the July 4
final on the grass courts of the All England Club.  
 A second championship at Wimbledon, which begins today, is
the 24-year-old Spaniard’s first goal, followed by a first title
at the U.S. Open in September. Victory in New York would
complete his career Grand Slam, something only six men have
managed.  
 “That would make him one of the all-time greats,”  Michael Stich , the 1991 Wimbledon champion and now an analyst for the
British Broadcasting Corp., said in an interview. “The only
thing he has to do is win the U.S. Open and that puts him in a
very rare group of players that have won all four Grand Slams.”  
 The six who have the career slam are Federer,  Andre Agassi ,
 Roy Emerson ,  Rod Laver ,  Don Budge  and  Fred Perry .  
 Federer, the defending champion, is seeded No. 1 and is the
11-8 favorite at British bookmaker  William Hill Plc  to win
Wimbledon. Nadal, the No. 2 seed who missed last year’s
tournament because of knee injuries, is the second choice at 5-
2. Britain’s  Andy Murray  is third at 6-1 and last year’s runner-
up,  Andy Roddick  of the U.S., is fourth at 14-1.  
 Player to Beat  
 Forget the odds and the seedings, said  Brad Gilbert , a
former coach of Agassi, the 1992 Wimbledon champion. Nadal is
the player to beat.  
 “Nadal first, Federer second,” Gilbert, an analyst for
ESPN, said on a conference call last week.  
 Federer will open the tournament today on Centre Court
against  Alejandro Falla  of Colombia. Roddick plays Rajeev Ram of
the U.S., while five-time women’s champion  Venus Williams , the
7-2 second favorite behind her sister Serena, a 2-1 chance,
faces Rossanna De Los Rios of Paraguay. Nadal will play his
first round tomorrow against wild-card  Kei Nishikori  of Japan.  
 A year ago, there were concerns about Nadal’s health as
well as his tennis.  
 He lost to  Robin Soderling  in the fourth round at the
French Open, his only defeat on the clay of Paris, and then
skipped Wimbledon because of tendinitis in his knees. Federer,
beaten by the Spaniard in an epic five-setter in the 2008
Wimbledon final, won his first French Open to complete the
career Grand Slam and outlasted Roddick in London in another
five-set match to break  Pete Sampras ’s record with his 15th
major title.  
 Shorter Schedule  
 Nadal cut back his pre-French Open schedule this year to
reduce wear on his legs. He zipped through the tournament at
Roland Garros without dropping a set and beat Soderling in the
final for his seventh Grand Slam victory.  
 “Last year, all of us following the game were worried
Nadal was in real trouble physically,” said  Mary Carillo , a
former French Open mixed doubles champion and now a television
analyst. “The fact that he’s been able to play every other
tournament now, and take better care with the schedule and is
healthy again has changed everything.”  
 Because he missed so much time a year ago, Nadal, the 2009
Australian Open champion, will solidify his No. 1 spot in the
 ATP World Tour  standings at Wimbledon because he has no ranking
points to defend. Federer, who trails Nadal by 220 points, must
win the Wimbledon title to retain all 2,000 points from the
tournament as he tries to be No. 1 by season’s end.  
 No. 1 Priority  
 “My aim is to be at the top come the end of the year,”
Federer said before the start of a grass-court event in Halle,
Germany, two weeks ago. “Being No. 1 one remains my priority.”  
 Not so for Nadal.  
 “Winning any other tournament would be better for me than
being No. 1 in the world,” he said after beating Soderling on
June 6. “Winning at Wimbledon or the U.S. Open would be
incredible for me.”  
 Federer hasn’t won a tournament since the Australian Open
in January and lost to  Lleyton Hewitt  in the final at Halle, his
first loss there since 2002. Gilbert said the 28-year-old Swiss
right-hander remains a force.  
 “His record is superlative on grass, I wouldn’t worry
about him,” Gilbert said.  
 Nadal’s latest victory in Paris left him one shy of  Bjorn Borg ’s six French Open titles. The Spaniard didn’t dwell on next
year, quickly turning his focus to London.  
 After running to catch his train in Paris, Nadal arrived at
St. Pancras station and took a taxi to the  Queen’s Club , the
west London site of the main men’s tune-up tournament for
Wimbledon.  
 Once there, he pleaded with head groundsman Graham Kimpton
to put the nets back up in spite of rain. Kimpton relented, and
Nadal practiced for 20 minutes as dark clouds gathered.  
 Nadal told a news conference later that he had come to
London with “a very good motivation” to win Wimbledon.  
 “All my life I have watched the tournament on the TV,” he
said. “So for me just to be there was a dream.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Spain's Rafael Nadal plays a backhand  
                       
                         
                           Julian Finney/Getty Images 
                         
                         Spain's Rafael Nadal plays a backhand against Sweden's Robin Soderling during the men's singles final match at the French Open in Paris. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Spain's Rafael Nadal plays a backhand against Sweden's Robin Soderling during the men's singles final match at the French Open in Paris. Photographer: Julian Finney/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Jim Courier, formerly the top-ranked men's tennis player in the world, previews the Wimbledon Tennis tournament which began play today at the All England Club in London.
     Courier talks with Betty Liu and Michele Steele on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Former world No. 1 tennis player says Rafael Nadal has a "slight edge" over Roger Federer at Wimbledon, which begins today at the All England Club in London. Bloomberg's Michele Steele reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Spain's Rafael Nadal celebrates with the trophy after winning the men's singles final match against Sweden's Robin Soderling at the French Open in Paris. Photographer: Julian Finney/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
