-- Netherlands First to Advance to Last 16 After Danish Win; Ghana Tops Group
-- Bob Bensch
-- 2010-06-19T22:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/netherlands-wins-ghana-ties-to-take-group-leads-at-soccer-world-cup.html

          
          
             The Netherlands yesterday became the
first team to qualify for the round of 16 at the World Cup with
a 1-0 win over Japan and Denmark’s 2-1 victory over Cameroon.  
 Wesley Sneijder  scored for the Netherlands, which has won
both of its games in Group E.  Dennis Rommedahl  and  Nicklas Bendtner  had goals for Denmark.  
 The results guarantee the Dutch can’t finish lower than
second in the group. The top two teams in each of the eight
groups after three games advance to the next round.  
 “We’re satisfied with the fact we’ve won our first two
matches,” Sneijder told reporters in Durban, South Africa,
hours before Denmark and Cameroon kicked off last night. “We’ve
yet to play our best football.”  
 Ghana tied 1-1 with Australia in the day’s other game to
move atop Group D. Australia played the final 66 minutes with 10
men after  Harry Kewell  received a red card.  
 “The result was quite good for us because we have four
points now,” Ghana coach Milovan Rajevac told reporters. “We
had so many opportunities but didn’t score.”  
 Today in Group F, Slovakia plays Paraguay, while Italy
takes on New Zealand. In Group G, Brazil meets the Ivory Coast
in the third match.  
 Holland’s Sneijder scored the only goal in the 53rd minute
with a shot from outside the area that goalkeeper Eiji Kawashima
was unable to hold.  
 The victory gives the Dutch six points. Japan and Cameroon
have three points each and face each other in the final group
game on June 24. Cameroon has lost both games and becomes the
first team eliminated.  
 Ineffective  
 “We weren’t effective enough,” Cameroon manager  Paul LeGuen  said at a news conference. “It’s disappointing for us
and the Cameroon people.”  
 Cameroon plays its final game against the Netherlands,
which has twice finished runner-up at the World Cup, in four
days.  
 “It’s very difficult for us because we really thought we
had something to say at this competition, but sport often does
this kind of thing,” said Samuel Eto’o, who scored Cameroon’s
goal.  
 Rommedahl’s goal in the 61st minute gave Denmark the come-
from-behind win in Pretoria. He took the ball on the right side,
cut toward the middle and curled a left-footed shot past Hamidou
Souleymanou.  
 Cameroon had taken the lead in 10th minute on a goal from
 Eto’o , with Bendtner tying it in the 33rd minute by poking in a
cross from Rommedahl. Denmark goalkeeper  Thomas Sorensen  then
made a one-handed save against Achille Emana with 12 minutes
remaining.  
 Spirit  
 “We scored some goals,” Danish coach  Morten Olsen  said.
“We showed spirit.”  
 Australia took a 1-0 lead in Rustenburg in the 11th minute
when Brett Holman put in the rebound after Ghana goalkeeper
Roger Kingson was unable to hold onto the ball after allowing
 Mark Bresciano’s  free kick to bounce in front of him.  
 Ghana pulled even 14 minutes later on Asamoah Gyan’s
penalty kick, which was awarded when Kewell was ruled to have
used his arm to block Jonathan Mensah’s goal-bound shot. The red
card is Australia’s second in the tournament after  Tim Cahill 
was sent off in the Socceroos’ 4-0 loss to Germany in the
opening game.  
 “We were unlucky with the red card,” Australia coach  Pim Verbeek  told reporters. “It was definitely not a red card, it
was a mistake of the referee. It was not intentional.”  
 Ghana has four points, Germany and Serbia have three points
and Australia has one. Ghana plays Germany and Australia faces
Serbia in the final group games on June 23.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        