-- New York's Paterson Wants Higher Tobacco Taxes to Help Narrow Deficit Gap
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/new-york-s-paterson-wants-higher-tobacco-taxes-to-help-narrow-deficit-gap.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson 
wants to raise tobacco taxes and collect levies on cigarettes
sold to outsiders from American Indian reservations.  
 The proposals are part of Paterson’s 12th consecutive
emergency spending plan, scheduled for a June 21 vote, to keep
the government operating for another week. The measure is needed
as lawmakers and Paterson haven’t agreed on a comprehensive
budget that closes a deficit estimated at $9.2 billion when the
fiscal year began on April 1.  
 “Our anticipation is that the budget extender will pass,”
said  Robert Megna , the state budget director, who described the
weekly measure to reporters at the state Capitol in Albany.  
 New York, the nation’s third-most populous state, would
expect to receive about $290 million this year from a $1.60 per
pack increase in the  cigarette tax , to $4.35, and a boost in the
wholesale tax on other tobacco products, such as snuff and
cigars, to 75 percent from 46 percent. Collecting taxes on
cigarette sales from reservations would raise $150 million.  
 The estimated $9.2 billion deficit in Paterson’s $135.2
billion  budget , submitted earlier this year, has been reduced by
about half, Megna said. The additional tobacco revenue, plus
spending cuts and savings in budget bills already passed or
pending, and cuts in agency expenses that Paterson can order
without lawmakers approval, have narrowed the deficit by between
$4.5 billion and $5 billion, he said.  
 June 28 Deadline  
 Paterson earlier this week set a June 28 deadline for
lawmakers to agree on a budget, which he said must not include
borrowing. If there is no agreement, the governor said he would
resubmit his original budget. That includes a 1 cent per ounce
tax on sweetened beverages and larger cuts in school aid that
many lawmakers don’t favor.  
 If legislators don’t approve the weekly spending plan,
which provides appropriations to pay state workers for another
week, they would cause a government shutdown, said  Morgan Hook ,
a Paterson spokesman.  
 New York’s bond rating hasn’t suffered from the late budget
or “very difficult state political process,” Moody’s Investors
Service said yesterday as it affirmed an Aa2 grade, the third
highest, for the state’s general obligation bonds.  
 “It appears likely that the state will solve the
budget gap with some combination of spending cuts, revenue
increases and one-time revenues that will not imperil the
long-term fiscal health of the state,” the rating company
said in a report.  
 Departmental Cuts Made  
 The Assembly yesterday trimmed the deficit by about $1.05
billion in budgets approved for departments including public
safety, transportation and economic development, Megna said.
After the Senate has an opportunity to study the measures, they
“will pass,” said  Travis Proulx , a spokesman for Senate
Majority Leader  John Sampson , a Democrat of Brooklyn.  
 The bills also would cut $302 million from aid for New York
City. The state cut municipal aid payments to other cities by 2
percent to 5 percent, or about $15 million in all, budget
documents show.  
 While Senate Democrats have opposed any tax increases in
spending plans, Megna said they might be swayed to accept higher
tobacco levies as a way to avoid even larger cuts in health-care
programs.  
 “Full consideration has to be given to all responsible
proposals which balance the budget and maintain necessary
funding for health and Medicaid programs,” Proulx said.  
 Politicians of both parties have pushed to resume
collecting revenue on cigarette sales from American Indian
reservations. The state hasn’t tried to make the collections
since the early 1990s, when an attempt resulted in violent
opposition that injured a state trooper and closed the main
Albany-to-Buffalo highway. Court rulings have affirmed the New
York’s right to collect the taxes.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        