-- Osborne Said to Plan Bank Tax in Budget Squeeze
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-20T11:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/osborne-said-to-plan-bank-tax-in-u-k-budget-that-may-hurt-economic-growth.html

          
          
             U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is pushing ahead with plans to tax banks in his
first budget, according to three people with knowledge of the
plans, an announcement to go along with spending cuts that may
prompt forecasters to lower economic-growth estimates.  
 The tax, which may be imposed on assets or liabilities,
could raise at least 2 billion pounds ($3 billion), one of the
people said. Osborne has said the June 22 budget, coming six
weeks after the coalition government was formed, will set the
stage for the deepest spending reductions since the 1980s.  
 The bank-tax announcement would come days before Osborne
and Prime Minister David Cameron travel to Toronto to meet Group
of 20 leaders. G-20 finance ministers this month declined to
endorse a global bank tax, while the U.S. and European
governments said they would introduce some levies on lenders.  
 “I am going to ask the banks to pay a bank levy, so there
will be a contribution from them,” Osborne told BBC
television’s Sunday AM program in  London  today. He didn’t give
further details on the tax or whether the proposal will be
unveiled this week.  
 The Treasury has already reaped benefits from taxing banks.
A one-off tax on bank bonuses introduced last year by Osborne’s
predecessor,  Alistair Darling , raised 2.5 billion pounds.  
 Osborne’s budget, which he’ll deliver to the House of
Commons, will have as its main focus implementing the deficit-
reduction program that the coalition’s policy agreement
described as “the most urgent issue facing Britain.”  
 “The decisions we make will affect every single person in
our country,” Cameron said June 7, discussing the looming cuts.
“The effects of those decisions will stay with us for years,
perhaps decades to come.”  
 Growth Forecast  
 His policies may lead the Treasury’s forecasting watchdog
to trim its growth outlook for the British economy.  
 The  Office for Budget Responsibility  estimated June 14 the
economy would expand by 1.3 percent this year and by 2.6 percent
in 2011, assuming previous plans to squeeze the budget by 40
billion pounds by 2015. Osborne says he wants faster and deeper
cuts to balance the books.  
 The deficit will narrow from 155 billion pounds in this
fiscal year to 71 billion pounds by April 2015, or 3.9 percent
of gross domestic product, the budget office said, without
taking into account new measures. Net debt will increase to 74.4
percent of GDP, the OBR also forecast.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        