-- People's Bank of China Statement on Yuan Exchange-Rate Flexibility (Text)
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-19T12:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/people-s-bank-of-china-statement-on-yuan-exchange-rate-flexibility-text-.html

          
          
             The following is a reformatted
version of the People’s Bank of China  statement  on exchange-rate
policy posted on the central bank’s website today.  
 China’s currency, the renminbi (RMB), or yuan, has been
held about 6.83 per dollar since July 2008 after the government
allowed a 21 percent appreciation over the prior three years.  
 Further Reform the RMB Exchange Rate Regime and Enhance the RMB
Exchange Rate Flexibility  
 In view of the recent economic situation and financial market
developments at home and abroad, and the balance of payments
(BOP) situation in China, the People’s Bank of China has decided
to proceed further with reform of the RMB exchange rate regime
and to enhance the RMB exchange rate flexibility.  
 Starting from July 21, 2005, China has moved into a managed
floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand
with reference to a basket of currencies. Since then, the reform
of the RMB exchange rate regime has been making steady progress,
producing the anticipated results and playing a positive role.  
 When the current round of international financial crisis was at
its worst, the exchange rate of a number of sovereign currencies
to the U.S. dollar depreciated by varying margins. The stability
of the RMB exchange rate has played an important role in
mitigating the crisis’ impact, contributing significantly to
Asian and global recovery, and demonstrating China’s efforts in
promoting global rebalancing.  
 The global economy is gradually recovering. The recovery and
upturn of the Chinese economy has become more solid with the
enhanced economic stability. It is desirable to proceed further
with reform of the RMB exchange rate regime and increase the RMB
exchange rate flexibility.  
 In further proceeding with reform of the RMB exchange rate
regime, continued emphasis would be placed to reflecting market
supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The
exchange rate floating bands will remain the same as previously
announced in the inter-bank foreign exchange market.  
 China’s external trade is steadily becoming more balanced. The
ratio of current account surplus to GDP, after a notable
reduction in 2009, has been declining since the beginning of
2010. With the BOP account moving closer to equilibrium, the
basis for large-scale appreciation of the RMB exchange rate does
not exist. The People’s Bank of China will further enable market
to play a fundamental role in resource allocation, promote a
more balanced BOP account, maintain the RMB exchange rate
basically stable at an adaptive and equilibrium level, and
achieve the macroeconomic and financial stability in China.  
 For Related News and Information:
China’s top stories: TOP CH <GO>
Economy snapshot of China: ESNP CH <GO>
Top currency news: TOP FX <GO>
Yuan’s quarterly performance against dollar:
CNY <Curncy> GP Q <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at TCW Group Inc., talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the impact of a change in China's currency policy.
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Stephen Engle reports on China's currency policy, and implications for the nation's economy and global trade.
     China’s signal of an end to the yuan’s fixed rate to the dollar may accelerate a shift toward domestic demand as the prime driver of growth as President Hu Jintao seeks to strengthen household incomes. Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy and trade. 
     The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for  “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Andrew Colquhoun, director at Fitch Ratings Asia-Pacific sovereign group, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for Japan's credit rating and fiscal policy.
     Colquhoun, speaking from Tokyo, also discusses China's shift in currency policy, and its implications for the nation's economy. The People’s Bank of China two days ago indicated it’s abandoning the 6.83 yuan peg to the dollar adopted during the global crisis to shield exporters. The central bank said while there’s no basis for “large scale” moves in the currency, the exchange rate will be allowed increased “flexibility.” (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 21 (Bloomberg) -- Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin about China's currency policy. 
     China said on June 19 it will allow a more flexible yuan, signaling an end to the currency’s two-year-old peg to the dollar a week before a Group of 20 summit in Toronto. Qu, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for China's economy and the nation's demand for U.S. Treasuries. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
