-- Poles Vote in Presidential Election Seen as Referendum on Economic Policy
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-06-20T07:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/poles-vote-in-presidential-election-seen-as-referendum-on-economic-policy.html

          
          
             Poles began voting today in
elections that may unite the presidency and prime minister’s
office under the ruling party, strengthening the government’s
ability to pursue euro adoption and state asset sales.  
 Bronislaw Komorowski , of Prime Minister  Donald Tusk’s  Civic
Platform, will likely garner the most votes in the first round
of presidential voting, while falling short of the majority
needed to avoid a runoff in two weeks, polls show.  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , brother of the late President  Lech Kaczynski , who was
killed in an April plane crash, is his top challenger.  
 “Poles either pick a man who will represent the government
in the presidential palace or they pick Kaczynski, who will
continue the policy of his brother -- anti-European Union, anti-
Russia and opposition to the government,” said Wojciech
Jablonski, a political scientist at Warsaw University.  
 A victory by Komorowski, who is parliamentary speaker and
has been acting president since Lech Kaczynski’s death, would
end three years of tension between the president and prime
minister. That may allow Poland, the EU’s biggest eastern
member, to present a unified stance on joining the euro and help
Tusk cut the budget deficit to comply with the EU limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product.  
 Voting stations opened at 6 a.m. Warsaw time and close at 8
p.m. Poland’s president represents the country abroad, is head
of the army and can veto legislation. His veto can be overturned
by a three-fifths majority in parliament.  
 Kaczynski, 61, served as prime minister in 2006-2007 during
his brother’s presidency. He is the founder and leader of Law &
Justice, the largest opposition party, which has sought to raise
pensions for miners, increase the minimum wage and lower taxes
for families.  
 ‘Rather Afraid’  
 Some supporters say Civic Platform will have too much power
if Komorowski wins, giving the party control of both the
presidency and the prime minister’s office.  
 “Kaczynski, as prime minister three years ago, wasn’t as
bad as some try to portray him, especially in the view of older
and poorer people, who feel more secure with him,” said Andrzej
Augustyniak, 35-year-old taxi driver from Warsaw. “I’m rather
afraid of the Civic Platform, which is less in touch with
ordinary Poles.”  
 Komorowski, 58, was backed by 42 percent of respondents in
a June 15-16 poll published June 18 by Warsaw researcher GfK
Polonia, while Kaczynski was at 31 percent. The survey of 1,000
likely voters had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  
 A Komorowski victory will steer Poland through Europe’s
debt crisis without leaving the country fiscally vulnerable,
said London-based  Peter Attard Montalto , emerging markets
economist at Nomura International Plc.  
 Policy Conflict  
 The government ended last year with a deficit equal to 7.1
percent of  GDP . The shortfall may widen to 7.3 percent this
year, the European Commission said May 5.  
 Law & Justice last year called for an increase in spending
to offset the impact of the global economic crisis. Poland is
the only EU member to have avoided an economic contraction since
the credit crisis started.  
 The country also struggled to articulate a unified euro
policy while Lech Kaczynski was alive. The late president
opposed setting a date for euro entry and was the last EU leader
before Czech President  Vaclav Klaus  to sign the Lisbon Treaty,
intended to streamline EU institutions and lay the foundation
for the bloc’s enlargement. Tusk’s government plans to adopt the
euro and has said 2015 is a “realistic” date.  
 Parliamentary Elections  
 A cooperative head of state may make it easier for Tusk to
win elections for the Sejm, Poland’s lower house of parliament,
next year. That would allow Poland to continue policy measures
including state asset sales. The government has earmarked units
valued at $10 billion for sale this year to boost revenue.  
 Komorowski as president will “not only free up Tusk to
push forward with privatization more aggressively, but we
believe the government will finally have the political breathing
space before Sejm elections next year to be able to enact the
promised fiscal consolidation,” Montalto said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Candidate for Prime Minister Bronislaw Komorowski. Photographer: John  Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Jaroslaw Kaczynski, former prime minister of Poland, pauses during an interview at his office in Warsaw, on May 12, 2009. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
