-- Swedish Crown Princess Victoria Marries Her Former Personal Trainer Daniel
-- Niklas Magnusson
-- 2010-06-19T16:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/swedish-crown-princess-victoria-to-marry-her-former-personal-trainer-today.html

          
          
             Sweden’s Crown  Princess Victoria  wed
her former personal trainer Daniel Westling in Stockholm’s
Storkyrkan cathedral today, the culmination of almost two weeks
of festivities in the Swedish capital.  
 The ceremony took place just after 3:30 p.m. local time and
was followed by a carriage cortege through central Stockholm as
well as a boat ride across the city’s bay on the royal barge.
The king and queen will host a wedding banquet at the Royal
Palace.  
 The 32-year-old daughter of King  Carl XVI Gustav  and  Queen Silvia , met Westling, 36, almost nine years ago at his gym
Master Training in Stockholm. Victoria is in line to become
Sweden’s first female regent since Ulrika Eleonora, who reigned
1719-1720, and the fourth ever. Sweden’s constitution was
adjusted in 1980 to allow for the oldest child, regardless of
gender, to inherit the throne.  
 “It is a historical moment, it is as joyful as the wedding
between Carl XVI Gustav and Silvia,” said Riitta Kujansivu, who
watched the royal cortege at Stureplan in downtown Stockholm.  
 Victoria Ingrid Alice Desiree is the first of Carl’s
children to get married. She has a younger brother,  Carl Philip ,
and a younger sister, Madeleine. Carl XVI Gustav, 64, became
king in 1973 and is the seventh member of the Bernadotte family
on the Swedish throne. The Nordic country is a constitutional
monarchy and the king’s duties are primarily ceremonial.  
 Princes and Princesses  
 An estimated 500,000 people lined the streets and wharves
of Stockholm, many with Swedish flags, as marching bands paraded
through the Swedish capital ahead of the wedding. Children
dressed up as princesses and princes outside the castle, where
they waited with their parents to get a glimpse of the Crown
Princess and Westling.  
 “As a new Swede, it is a privilege to take part of the
celebration that is the Royal Wedding,” Mikael Hakola, who was
born in Finland and lives in Stockholm, said. “It is wonderful,
it is a day of joy and love.”  
 Warships, the 18th century replica Gothenburg ship and the
Danish and Norwegian royal families’ yachts lined the quay
outside the Royal Castle, where people stood hoping to see the
prominent guests.  
 Daniels Westling’s official title after the wedding is
“His Royal Highness Prince Daniel, Duke of Vaestergoetland.”
He was born in 1973 in Oerebro, the son of social services chief
Olle Westling and postal services employee Eva Westling, and led
an ordinary life until the summer of 2002, when he was caught on
camera kissing Victoria at a restaurant.  
 Kidney Transplant  
 The couple announced their engagement in February last
year. Westling underwent a kidney transplant three months later
with his father as the donor. In an interview with Svenska
Dagbladet on May 22 he said his condition was congenital and not
hereditary, possibly the result of his mother having had a cold
during pregnancy.  
 The couple was married by Archbishop Anders Wejryd.
Victoria’s wish to be escorted down the aisle by her father
caused controversy, because the Swedish tradition is for the
bride and groom to enter the church together. Victoria’s dress
was designed by Paer Engsheden and was made of cream-colored
duchess silk satin, the court said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Wedding Discontent  
 The estimated cost of the wedding, 20 million kronor ($2.6
million), also caused protest among some Swedes, even after the
king said he would pay half of it. The discontent was channeled
into Facebook groups such as “Refuse to pay for Victoria’s
wedding” and “If I’m supposed to pay for Victoria’s and
Daniel’s wedding, I want an invitation.”  
 The share of Swedes that oppose the monarchy has risen
gradually to 25 percent this year from 10 percent in 1996, even
as 46 percent still support the institution, according to a
study published by FSI on June 16. Some 28 percent have a
“negative” view of the royal family, compared with 40 percent
with a “positive” image, the survey showed.  
 The Royal Family will receive a total of 125 million kronor
from the Swedish state this year. About half pays for the costs
of the royal court and the royal family, while the rest is used
for maintenance of the royal castles, Dagens Nyheter reported
June 9. Victoria and Daniel will live at Haga Castle, just north
of Stockholm.  
 Hennes & Mauritz, Handelsbanken  
 The King has an investment portfolio valued at 114 million
kronor, according to Dagens Industri. Victoria’s portfolio,
which includes shares in  Hennes & Mauritz AB  and Svenska
Handelsbanken AB, has gained 14 percent since the summer of 2008
and is now valued at 14.1 million kronor, the newspaper reported
on June 14.  
 About 1,100 guests were present in the church and about
half of them were invited to the dinner at the Royal Castle. The
guest list included Queen  Margrethe II  of Denmark,  King Harald  V
of Norway, Japan’s Crown Prince  Naruhito , King  Albert II  of
Belgium, Queen  Beatrix  of the Netherlands and  Prince Edward  of
the United Kingdom.  
 The Bernadotte family traces its roots back to the French
marshal Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte who was adopted by the
childless Swedish king Karl XIII. He became Karl XIV Johan in
1818.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Sweden's Crown Princess Victoria and Daniel Westling  
                       
                         
                           Jonas Ekstromer/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Sweden's Crown Princess Victoria and Daniel Westling stand at the reception at the Royal Palace in Stockholm, Sweden after the reading of the banns of their marriage on May 30, 2010.Their wedding will take place on June 19. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sweden's Crown Princess Victoria and Daniel Westling stand at the reception at the Royal Palace in Stockholm, Sweden after the reading of the banns of their marriage on May 30, 2010.Their wedding will take place on June 19. Photographer: Jonas Ekstromer/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     An official photo of Sweden's Crown Princess Victoria and Daniel Westling is displayed in a window of the Foreign Ministry Affairs ahead of their wedding in Stockholm on June 17, 2010. Photographer: Attila Kisbenedek/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Plates showing Swedish Crown Princess Victoria and her fiance Daniel Westling are displayed in a souvenir shop ahead of their wedding in Stockholm on May 24, 2010. Their wedding is planned for June 19. Photographer: Olivier Morin/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
