-- Twenty Killed in Turkish Military, PKK Clashes; Aircraft Bomb Inside Iraq
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-06-19T15:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-19/twenty-killed-in-turkish-military-pkk-clashes-aircraft-bomb-inside-iraq.html

          
          
             Ten Turkish soldiers were killed in
attacks by the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, according to
Turkey’s armed forces. The military said 12 PKK members had been
killed in subsequent clashes.  
 PKK gunmen attacked soldiers in the Semdinli region close
to the Iraqi border, killing eight, the military said in a
website  statement . Additional forces were sent into the area and
aircraft staged bombing runs in northern Iraq, according to the
statement. Fourteen troops were wounded, the military said. Two
soldiers also died in Semdinli when they stepped on a landmine
laid by the PKK, the state news agency Anatolia reported.  
 The clashes came the day after Turkish forces warned of an
increase in attacks from the PKK. The organization on June 1
decided to step up attacks because Turkey is ignoring its
demands for constitutionally recognized autonomy, General Fahri
Kir  told  reporters in Ankara. The military has killed 130 PKK
fighters and lost 43 soldiers since March, he said.  
 Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has widened Kurdish
cultural rights, allowing television broadcasts in the language
and increasing investment in Turkey’s mostly Kurdish southeast.
The increase in PKK violence reflects the group’s “efforts to
sabotage the initiative,” Erdogan said yesterday.  
 It was the second time in a week that Turkey attacked the
PKK inside northern Iraq, which the group uses as a base for
attacks on Turkey.  
 Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union classify the PKK as
a terrorist group. The group has been fighting the Turkish state
since 1984 in a conflict that has killed at least 40,000 people.  
 Turkish authorities don’t negotiate with the PKK and its
leader,  Abdullah Ocalan , who’s serving a life sentence on an
island jail in western Turkey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        