-- RealD, Qlik Rise as Demand for Technology IPOs Climbs
-- Lee Spears
-- 2010-07-16T20:17:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/-avatar-3-d-projector-maker-reald-qlik-price-ipos-above-forecast-range.html

          
          
             RealD Inc. , the maker of 3-D movie
projectors used to show  James Cameron’s  “Avatar,” and  Qlik
Technologies Inc.  surged more than 20 percent after pricing
initial public offerings above their forecast range as demand
for technology IPOs picked up.  
 RealD climbed 22 percent to $19.51 in New York Stock
Exchange trading today. The company raised $200 million
yesterday, 24 percent more than sought, a statement and a
Securities and Exchange Commission filing showed. Qlik, which
makes software for BP Plc and Kraft Foods Inc., increased 28
percent to $12.80 on the Nasdaq Stock Market after pricing its
IPO at $10 a share, more than its range of $8.50 to $9.50.  
 The deals came after interactive whiteboard maker  Smart
Technologies Inc.  completed the second-largest U.S. initial sale
of 2010 and pushed the amount raised by IPOs in America above $1
billion this week. Filings for initial offerings climbed to the
highest since 2007 last quarter even as deals worldwide were
canceled at the fastest rate since the collapse of New York-
based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 “There is a perception that technology companies are going
to be able to expand globally,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who
oversees about $1 billion as chief investment strategist at
YCMNet Advisors in Walnut Creek, California. “There are going
to be selective assets if their offerings are compelling that
are going to price above the market.”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray
Cos. led RealD’s offering.  
 ‘Avatar’ Sales  
 RealD, which collects fees from theaters that use its
projectors,  priced  12.5 million shares at $16 each after
offering 10.75 million for $13 to $15, Bloomberg data show. The
Beverly Hills, California-based company has lost money in every
year since 2005, when its equipment was first used to show  3-D
movies , according to its SEC filing.  
 “Avatar,” the futuristic adventure movie that makes use
of RealD’s 3-D projectors and glasses, has taken a record $2.73
billion of worldwide box-office receipts since its December
release, according to  Box Office Mojo , a researcher based in
Sherman Oaks, California.  
 The company, which plans to expand in 3-D televisions,
computers and video games, will use the money to pay debt and
for possible takeovers, the filing showed.  
 At the midpoint price of $14, RealD had an enterprise
value, or the sum of its stock and debt minus cash, of 22 times
estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, a report from London-based  researcher  Independent
International Investment Research Plc showed.  
 Relative Value  
 IMAX Corp. , the Mississauga, Ontario-based operator of big-
screen movie theaters, and Dolby Laboratories Inc. of San
Francisco, which RealD cites as its main competitors, are valued
at 7.5 times and 12 times enterprise value to estimated Ebitda,
respectively, according to the report.  
 Shamrock Capital Advisors, the private equity firm based in
Burbank, California, was selling 1.4 million shares in RealD’s
IPO, the filing showed. The fund is affiliated with Shamrock
Holdings of California Inc., which was founded by  Roy Disney  in
1978, according to the Shamrock  Web site .  
 Qlik  raised $112 million in its IPO. The Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based company had sought $106.4 million. The sale
was managed by Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan of
New York. The stock started trading today under the ticker QLIK.  
  Smart Technologies  of Calgary, which raised $660 million
after seeking as much as $635 million, completed the biggest
initial offering in the U.S. since Houston-based  Oasis Petroleum
Inc.  sold $676 million of shares in June.  
 The offering was also the biggest by a Canadian technology
company in at least a decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristen Scholer  in New York at 
 kscholer@bloomberg.net ;
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        