-- `Fast and Furious' Brazil Bond Market Lures CSN, Gol as Debt Costs Plunge
-- Veronica Navarro Espinosa
-- 2010-07-16T22:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/-fast-and-furious-brazil-bond-market-lures-csn-gol-as-debt-costs-plunge.html

          
          
             Brazilian companies led by  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA  and  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA 
are selling bonds overseas at the fastest pace since April to
take advantage of borrowing costs near the lowest in two months.  
 CSN, Brazil’s third-largest steelmaker, and Gol, the
country’s biggest airline by market value, sold a combined $1.3
billion of bonds this week, the most since issuers raised $1.9
billion in the week ended April 30.  
 Brazilian companies are returning to international markets
after their average  bond yield  dropped 20 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, this month to 6.43 percent, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI index. Sao Paulo-based Banco
Cruzeiro do Sul SA ended on June 30 a two-month drought in sales
that was sparked by concern the global recovery was slowing.
BM&FBovespa SA, the Sao Paulo-based owner of Latin America’s
biggest securities exchange, and Belo Horizonte-based  Banco
Mercantil do Brasil SA  sold debt last week.  
 “They tried to sell as many deals as possible,” said
 Paolo Valle , who co-manages about $1 billion of emerging-market
assets with Federated Investors in Pittsburgh. “We have a large
pipeline of new issues.”  
 CSN  of Rio de Janeiro sold $1 billion of 10-year notes to
yield 6.625 percent yesterday, the biggest dollar-denominated
issue from a Brazilian company since Itau Unibanco Holding SA
sold the same amount on April 8. CSN initially marketed the bond
sale with price guidance of 6.75 percent, said a person familiar
with the offering who declined to be identified because he’s not
allowed to speak publicly.  
 ‘Fast and Furious’  
 Gol , based in Sao Paulo, issued $300 million of 10-year
debt to yield 9.5 percent on July 14. Demand for the notes
reached $1.25 billion, leading the company to cut the yield it
planned to pay from 9.625 percent, according to a person with
knowledge of the sale who isn’t authorized to speak publicly.  
 “We were ready two months ago and were just waiting for a
window of opportunity,”  Leonardo Gomes Pereira , Gol’s chief
financial officer, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Investors are more selective, much more cautious than before
the European crisis deepened.”  
 The sales brought Brazilian corporate bond issuance this
year to $17.4 billion, compared with $7.4 billion in the year-
earlier period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “Everyone wants to use this opportunity, and they don’t
know how long it will be open,” said  Edgardo Sternberg , an
emerging-markets strategist at Loomis Sayles, which manages
about $140 billion in assets. “They come fast and furious.”  
 Spreads Widen  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. securities rose one basis point to 228
today, according to JPMorgan.  
 The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January declined nine basis points to 11.06 percent. The real
fell 1.1 percent to 1.7821 per dollar, the most in more than two
weeks.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps jumped four basis
points to 128 today, the biggest jump in more than two weeks,
according to data compiled by CMA DataVision. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The yield gap on Brazilian corporate dollar bonds over U.S.
Treasuries has climbed 103 basis points from a 2 1/2-year low of
227 basis points on April 5, according to JPMorgan’s  CEMBI
index . It jumped nine basis points yesterday.  
 ‘Cheap and Easy’  
 “It’s definitely not a time of cheap and easy deals,”
Cristiano Gomes, Banco Mercantil’s financial director, said in a
telephone interview. “We had a good window, but it’s clear that
you have to be alert to news” that could roil the market, he
said.  
 Banco Mercantil sold $200 million of 10-year notes to yield
9.625 percent on July 9. Officials at CSN and BM&FBovespa, which
issued $612 million of 10-year securities, declined to comment
on their sales.  
 More companies will try to tap overseas debt markets this
month before August, traditionally the slowest month of the year
as many U.S. investors take summer vacation, said  Natalia Corfield , a corporate debt analyst at ING Groep NV in New York.  
 “There is cash on the sidelines and if we do not see more
shocks, the market can certainly absorb more,” Corfield said in
a telephone interview.  
 JBS SA , the world’s largest beef producer, plans to meet
with bond investors, according to  Vanessa Esteves , a spokeswoman
for the Sao Paulo-based company.  
 Gol Rally  
 Gol’s new securities rose to about 99.75 cents on the
dollar in secondary market trading yesterday from their issue
price of 98.41 cents, according to Gramercy, a Greenwich,
Connecticut-based investment firm with more than $2.6 billion in
assets. The bonds were bid at 99.8 cents this morning, according
to Tradition Asiel Securities Inc.  
 The 6.5 percent bonds sold by CSN traded at around 99 cents
today, down from an issue price of 99.10 cents, according to
Gramercy.  
 “It’s a good opportunity to put cash to work,” said  Rodd Kauffman , head of fixed-income trading at Gramercy. “But it’s
probably a better opportunity to watch these deals that are
coming out and be ready to take advantage of volatility to get
them at the proper price and not necessarily the issue price.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Gol flight departs Congonhas Airport,in Sao Paulo. Photographer: Marcos Issa/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
