-- H&R Block's Thomas Bloch to Quit Board Over Split With Breeden
-- Laura Keeley
-- 2010-07-16T20:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/h-r-block-s-thomas-bloch-plans-to-quit-board-over-differences-with-breeden.html

          
          
             H&R Block Inc.  director  Thomas Bloch , a member of the family that built the biggest U.S. tax
preparer, said he won’t seek re-election because of
disagreements with Chairman  Richard Breeden  and “the intense
pressure from short-term oriented  shareholders .”  
 In a  letter  to the board filed with regulators today, Bloch
cited “fundamental” disagreements with Breeden, a hedge-fund
manager, and said the company was “overly generous” with
compensation for Chief Executive Officer  Alan Bennett . Bloch
said a 2008 stock buyback was “ill-timed,” that the 2010
fiscal plan was “overly optimistic” and that the company
missed its  earnings  guidance.  
 “My father  Henry Bloch , who will turn 88 this month, has
witnessed the company suffer a number of setbacks that could
have likely been avoided or minimized,” the letter said. “He
has watched our customer base contract by a staggering amount --
a loss approaching two million customers in the last two
years.”  
 H&R Block dropped 62 cents to $13.99 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Shares of the Missouri-based
firm have declined 38 percent this year. That’s the  second-worst 
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, behind Nvidia Corp.  
 Unable to Execute  
 “The departure of a longstanding board member will likely
increase investor concerns that the latest version of the
turnaround plan has weak prospects, or that new management will
be unable to successfully execute,”  Vance Edelson , an analyst
with Morgan Stanley, said today in a telephone interview.  
 Thomas Bloch served as CEO from 1992 to 1995. His departure
from the board follows those of three senior executives this
year:  Russ Smyth  resigned as CEO to join a private company on
July 7, general counsel  Brian Woram  left on July 2 and Chief
Financial Officer  Becky Shulman  quit on April 30.  
 H&R Block spokeswoman Jennifer Love said the company won’t
grant any interviews. The firm e-mailed a statement saying, “We
appreciate the more than 10 years of service  Tom Bloch  dedicated
to the H&R Block  board of directors . We wish him well in his
future endeavors.”  
 Bennett was given a base salary of $950,000 with a sign-on
bonus of $900,000 as part of his compensation package, according
to a company  filing  dated July 7. That compares with a base
salary of $450,000 with a guaranteed bonus of $562,500 when he
served as interim CEO in 2007 and 2008, according to a company
 filing .  
 Housing, Car, Jet  
 Bennett is entitled to “reasonable and customary
furnished” housing and rental car expense while in Kansas City
and can use the firm’s Net Jet share for one round trip per week
between his Connecticut or Florida residences and Kansas City,
where the company is based, according to the filing.  
 “I hope Alan, as permanent CEO, will make a commitment to
live in Kansas City, where the company is headquartered,” Bloch
wrote. “Furthermore, I hope he will demonstrate a genuine
commitment to long-term value creation, even though his
compensation package, I believe, may prove to be seriously
flawed with respect to its incentive components.”  
 H&R Block expects to remain an independent company and
plans to step up efforts to win online customers as more returns
get filed electronically, Bennett said in an interview after
returning to the CEO job earlier this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Keeley  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        