-- Lacker Says Data Consistent With Moderate Recovery, Sees Inflation Rising
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/lacker-says-data-consistent-with-moderate-recovery-sees-inflation-rising.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said recent economic reports showing an
uneven recovery are consistent with “moderate” growth that may
cause inflation to “drift upward” in coming quarters.  
 “Consumer spending and business  investment  are going to
continue to be strong enough to keep growth in overall activity
on an upward trajectory, though perhaps at a pace that is less
robust than has been typical of past recoveries,” Lacker said
in a speech yesterday in Norfolk, Virginia. “I would not be
surprised to see somewhat choppy economic reports for a time.”  
 Fed officials expect the expansion will be too slow to
return the economy to full employment in the next two years.
Central bankers saw no need for further measures to boost the
economy even though the outlook “softened somewhat” and the
risks to recovery had risen, according to minutes of their June
meeting released earlier this week in Washington.  
 Responding to audience questions after his speech, Lacker
said that a relapse into a recession is “quite unlikely at this
point” and that the Fed is “far away from needing” to resume
purchases of securities to boost the economy.  
 The Labor Department reported this month that private
employers  added 83,000 jobs  in June, less than the 110,000
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Homebuilders
started building dwellings at the slowest pace of the year in
May, after the expiration of a housing tax credit. Housing
starts fell 10 percent in May to a 593,000 annual pace.  
 Don’t ‘Overreact’  
 “This pattern is not at all inconsistent with moderate
growth -- one can’t always be better than expected, after all --
so it’s wise not to overreact to every crosscurrent in the data
flow,” he said.  
 Reasons for optimism include “robust increases in spending
for business equipment and software this year -- and beyond,”
and “reasonably healthy growth” in consumer spending, which he
said is likely to be sustained.  
 Growth in the world’s largest economy will average 2.8
percent from the current quarter through the second quarter of
2011, according to the median estimate of 52 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News from July 1 to July 8, down 0.1 percentage
point from last month.  
 Lacker said the economy faces headwinds including a
“sluggish pace” of housing construction, nonresidential
construction which could be soft for “an extended period,” and
weak spending from state and local governments. Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis is unlikely to have “major effects” on
the U.S., he said.  
 3% Growth  
 After the speech, he told reporters that he expects growth
of about “3 percent for the whole year,” adding that his
latest outlook is “a bit of a markdown from a couple of months
ago.”  
 The Fed’s preferred gauge for monitoring the trend of
inflation, the personal consumption expenditures index, has
risen 1.3 percent in the past year, below the Fed’s long-term
goal of 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  
 Inflation expectations have been “relatively stable,”
Lacker said. “Barring unanticipated shocks, inflation is likely
to drift upward in coming quarters.”  
 “I just think that the stability of inflation expectations
is going to exert a gravitational pull,” Lacker told reporters.  
 A separate inflation gauge, the core consumer price index,
will increase at an annual pace of 0.9 percent for the third
month in a row, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The Labor Department will release the report today in Washington.  
 Fed Policy  
 Policy makers led by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last
month affirmed a pledge to hold the  benchmark interest rate 
close to zero for an “extended period” and said “tight
credit” is restraining consumer spending.  
 Lacker said yesterday that “the credit market is working
well enough to support productive investment.”  
 The Fed’s exit from extraordinary monetary policy will be
effective when the time comes, Lacker said.  
 “I will be looking for the time at which economic growth
is strong enough and well enough established to warrant raising
our policy rate,” Lacker said, without laying out specific
conditions. “Recognizing the right time to begin normalizing
our monetary policy settings is going to be hard, and reasonable
people can differ about this.”  
 Lacker told reporters he’s waiting to see “sustained
strength in final demand” before concluding that the Fed should
move to boost interest rates.  
 Lacker, 54, has led the Richmond Fed since 2004. Fed
presidents rotate voting on monetary policy with Lacker next
voting in 2012.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Norfolk, Virginia at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        