-- AgriBank Gains in Hong Kong on Debut After $19.2 Billion IPO
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-16T08:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/agricultural-bank-gains-in-hong-kong-on-first-day-after-19-2-billion-ipo.html

          
          
             Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  rose
2.2 percent on its debut in Hong Kong, after posting the
smallest first-day gain among major rivals in Shanghai yesterday
following a $19.2 billion initial stock sale.  
 China’s largest bank by customers climbed to HK$3.27 at the
4 p.m. close from the IPO price of HK$3.20. The shares fell 0.4
percent to 2.69 yuan in Shanghai, giving Agricultural Bank a
market capitalization of $128.6 billion. Hong Kong’s benchmark
Hang Seng Index fell 0.03 percent.  
 Unlike its four largest local  rivals , who went public in
Hong Kong in 2005 and 2006 in the midst of a  five-year bull
market , Agricultural Bank’s debut came after a 7.5 percent drop
in the city’s benchmark stock index this year. Chairman  Xiang Junbo  also had to contend with investor concern that a slowdown
in China’s property market might saddle banks with bad loans.  
 “Investors are worried about local government finances, a
property downturn, about the big credit expansion last year; all
these will produce bad debts,”  Anthony Bolton , president of
investment at Fidelity International, said in a Bloomberg TV
interview today. “That’s why valuations are where they are.”  
 Analysts and fund managers surveyed by Bloomberg had
predicted a first-day gain of 5 percent in Hong Kong, according
to the average of seven estimates. The bank rose 0.8 percent in
Shanghai yesterday, falling short of the average projection for
a 6 percent increase.  
 ‘Very Satisfied’  
 Agricultural Bank’s Xiang said today he’s “very
satisfied” with the share price in Hong Kong.  
 First-day volume in Hong Kong was 3.19 billion shares, or
more than six times the number of shares traded in rival  Bank of
China Ltd.   
 The 32 companies that went public in Hong Kong this year
before today have climbed 7.4 percent on average on their first
day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Chinese policy makers are grappling with the risks posed by
last year’s $1.4 trillion  credit boom  that fueled the nation’s
comeback from the global recession.  
 The China Banking Regulatory Commission said in June that
concerns about lending to so-called local government financing
vehicles “weighs high” on its supervisory agenda and told
banks to report their exposure by the end of last month. China
also ordered local governments to ensure repayment of debts by
their financing units and concentrate on completing projects
already under way.  
 Financing Vehicles  
 The nation’s five largest banks had more than 2.3 trillion
yuan of loans outstanding to such entities by the end of last
year, according to calculations based on company statements.  
 Agricultural Bank, with 533 billion yuan of exposure, is
“more sensitive” to risks of the nation’s crackdown on these
financing vehicles as well as property developers,  Sandra Cai ,
an analyst at Samsung Securities Co., wrote in a note today. She
rates the stock “buy” with a target price of HK$3.50.  
 The IPO of Agricultural Bank, once the weakest lender in
China, makes the nation home to four of the world’s 10 biggest
banks by market value, half a decade after the country’s first
major state-owned lender went public.  
 Agricultural Bank, based in Beijing, has given underwriters
authority to expand the sale by as much as 15 percent to $22.1
billion, which would make it the largest IPO ever.  
 Trading Debuts  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , which completed
a  record $21.9 billion IPO  in October 2006, climbed 15 percent
on its first day of trading in Hong Kong. Individual investors
in the city sought almost 76 times the ICBC shares available to
them, compared with 5.9 times for Agricultural Bank.  
 China Minsheng Banking Corp., the latest mainland lender
listed in the city, fell 3.1 percent when it started trading
last November.  
 Agricultural Bank’s Hong Kong price represents 1.65 times
end-2010 book value as estimated by the IPO underwriters. That
compares with 2.15 times for ICBC, 2.06 times for  China
Construction Bank Corp. , and 1.56 times for  Bank of China.    
 The closing price in Shanghai yesterday valued Agricultural
Bank shares at 1.59 times estimated book value, a 6 percent
discount to the Hong Kong IPO price.  
 China’s economic growth slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from 11.9 percent in the previous three months,
according to a report released yesterday, after the government
succeeded in tempering credit expansion, investment spending and
property speculation.  
 “For Agricultural Bank to be successfully listed and be at
least able to keep above the IPO price in the middle of all this
is already quite an achievement,”  Daniel Jim , managing director
at Tripod Management Ltd., said in a Bloomberg TV interview
before trading started today.  
 Agricultural Bank is the last major Chinese bank to go
public, wrapping up a decade-long overhaul of the nation’s
banking industry that cost an estimated $650 billion.  Bank of
Communications Co. , Construction Bank, Bank of China and ICBC
sold shares between June 2005 and October 2006.  
 Construction Bank had the weakest Hong Kong debut of the
four, closing unchanged on Oct. 27, 2005, while the other three
jumped at least 13 percent on their first day.  
 -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Zhang Dingmin  in Beijing, and
 Susan Li ,  Phillip Yin  and  Frances Liu  in Hong Kong. Editors:
 Joost Akkermans ,  Philip Lagerkranser   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
 Luo Jun  in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Pedestrian walks past a branch of the Agricultural Bank of China in Shanghai. Photographer: Qilai Shen/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
