-- Baht, Singapore Dollar Top Asian Currency Gains This Week on Rates, GDP
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-16T21:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/thai-baht-singapore-dollar-head-for-weekly-gains-on-rate-increase-growth.html

          
          
             Thailand’s baht topped gains in
 Asian currencies  this week as the central bank joined India,
South Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan in raising interest rates,
boosting the yield advantage on the nations’ assets.  
 The region is leading the global economic recovery,
prompting policy makers to withdraw stimulus measures put in
place at the height of the financial crisis. Singapore’s gross
domestic product data this week signaled the city-state may
become the world’s fastest-growing major economy in 2010, as the
pace of expansion in China cooled last quarter. Malaysia’s
ringgit and the Indonesian rupiah are heading the advance in
Asia this year as overseas investors plow funds into stocks.  
 “We had some fabulous numbers out of Singapore and that’s
really helping most other Asian currencies higher,” said
 Charles Han , Hong Kong-based head of foreign-exchange trading at
Newedge Financial HK Ltd. “Overall, we are quite positive on
Asian currencies. Even though China’s numbers were not fantastic,
they were still robust relative to the global economy.”  
 The baht strengthened 0.3 percent this week to 32.24 per
dollar in Bangkok, and reached 32.22, the highest level since
May 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Singapore’s
dollar rose 0.2 percent to S$1.3757 for a third week of gains.  
 Thailand’s currency climbed to a two-month high yesterday
on speculation policy makers will add to its July 14 interest-
rate increase to curb inflation. The central bank said it
expects inflation to rise next year and 2010 economic growth to
beat its current forecast for an expansion of as much as 5.8
percent.  
 Rate Premiums  
 The Bank of Thailand lifted its one-day bond repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent, after
keeping it unchanged for nine meetings. Borrowing costs in South
Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan are 2.25 percent, 2.75 percent and
1.375 percent, respectively, compared with no higher than 1
percent in the U.S. and Europe.  
 “After the central bank hiked rates, the markets are now
trying to price in their next moves, expecting more increases to
come toward the end of the year,” said  Disawat Tiaowvanich , a
Bangkok-based foreign-exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl, the
nation’s biggest lender. “That’s the major driver for the
baht.”  
 The ringgit, Philippine peso and South Korea’s won dropped
this week on concern about the strength of the economic recovery
after the Federal Reserve said on July 15 June manufacturing in
the U.S. contracted by the most in a year. The central bank
trimmed its 2010 economic growth forecast to not more than 3.5
percent versus as much as 3.7 percent predicted in April.  
 ‘Sustainability’ Factor  
 “The data raises questions about the sustainability of the
current pace of recovery and risk appetite suffers along the
way,” said  Julian Chow , head of Asian fixed-income and foreign
exchange at AmInvestment Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. “For
emerging-market currencies, there’ll be more volatility and
resistance to appreciation.”  
 Malaysia’s currency dropped 0.4 percent from a week ago to
3.2100 per dollar, paring this year’s advance to 6.9 percent.
The peso fell 0.3 percent to 46.285 after Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas left the overnight borrowing rate at 4 percent on July
15 for a ninth meeting, and lowered its inflation forecast for
this year and next.  
 Singapore’s dollar advanced for a third week, its longest
winning streak since April, on speculation the central bank may
tighten policy further by seeking a stronger currency. The
Monetary Authority of Singapore uses the exchange rate rather
than interest rates to set policy.  
 China Yuan Bets  
 The government lifted its forecast for the economy to grow
as much as 15 percent this year from an earlier forecast of a
maximum 9 percent. Gross domestic product increased 26 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, compared with a
revised 45.9 percent record pace in the previous three months,
the government reported on July 14.  
 China’s economic growth eased to 10.3 percent from 11.9
percent in the previous three months, the statistics bureau said
on July 15. Traders pared bets for future appreciation in the
yuan on speculation policy makers will temper gains to support
exports as the economy slows.  
 Twelve-month yuan non-deliverable forwards traded at 6.6625
per dollar from 6.6620 at the end of last week, reflecting odds
the currency will strengthen 1.7 percent from yesterday’s spot
rate of 6.7767. The yuan has gained 0.8 percent since a two-
year-old peg was relaxed on June 19.  
 “From a currency perspective, the data suggests there will
be much less anticipation for big yuan appreciation,” Han of
Newedge said.  
 Elsewhere this week, India’s rupee dropped 0.3 percent to
46.7825 per dollar and South Korea’s won fell 0.6 percent to
1,203.39. Indonesia’s rupiah slipped 0.1 percent to 9,051 from
9,043 on July 9 and Taiwan’s dollar was little changed at
NT$32.143 from NT$32.125 a week ago.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        