-- AIG Settles Investor Suit for $725 Million; May Sell Shares
-- Sarah Frier
-- 2010-07-16T21:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/aig-settles-lawsuit-over-stock-decline-for-725-million-may-sell-shares.html

          
          
             American International Group Inc. ,
the bailed-out insurer, agreed to a $725 million settlement with
investors who lost money as the insurer’s stock plunged amid a
New York probe into bid rigging and faulty accounting.  
 The insurer will pay $175 million within 10 days of
preliminary court approval, New York-based AIG said in a
regulatory filing today. The payment of the remaining $550
million depends on AIG’s ability to raise funds in common stock
offerings, according to the filing. If the company is unable to
raise that sum, the agreement may be terminated.  
 AIG, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , is
resolving litigation tied to conduct investigated by then-New
York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer  in 2004. The insurer agreed
in November to settle all legal disputes with former CEO  Maurice “Hank” Greenberg , who was ousted amid the probe in 2005.  
 “The key here is for the company to go forward and make
money and do business and have issues dealing with supervisors
and shareholders all in the past,” said  Ernest “Ernie” Patrikis , a partner at White & Case and a former general counsel
at AIG. “It’s another major impediment behind them.”  
 AIG settled with Spitzer and federal regulators in 2006,
agreeing to pay $1.64 billion. The suit covered by today’s
agreement was filed by plaintiffs including Ohio public pension
funds that invested in the insurer and suffered losses as the
investigations depressed the company’s share price.  
 ‘Restoring the Value’  
 “We are pleased to have resolved this matter,” AIG
spokesman  Mark Herr  said in a statement. “This settlement ends
a long-standing lawsuit, allowing AIG to continue to focus its
efforts on paying back taxpayers and restoring the value of our
franchise for the benefit of all our stakeholders.”  
 AIG last  sold stock  in May 2008, when it needed funds to
cushion losses tied to bad bets on subprime mortgages. The
company dropped to $35.64 today at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. That compares with $767.40 on May
12, 2008, when the last offer priced, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 The insurer was forced in September 2008 to take a
government bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. The U.S. took
a stake of almost 80 percent. Andrew Williams, a spokesman for
the Treasury Department, had no immediate comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Frier  in New York at 
 sfrier@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        