-- AIG, China Sky One, Google, Office Depot, Safeway: U.S. Equity Preview
-- Lu Wang
-- 2010-07-18T16:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/aig-china-sky-one-cognex-office-depot-u-s-equity-preview-for-july-19.html

          
          
             Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading tomorrow. Stock symbols
are in parentheses.  
 American International Group Inc.  (AIG US): The bailed-out
insurer agreed to a $725 million settlement with investors who
lost money as the insurer’s stock plunged amid a New York probe
into bid-rigging and faulty accounting.  
 China Sky One Medical Inc.  (CSKI US): The Chinese
manufacturer of pharmaceutical and medical products said Chief
Financial Officer  Stanley Hao  will be unreachable by investors
for a period of time because of health reasons.  
 Cognex Corp.  (CGNX US): The maker of industrial cameras
used to detect manufacturing defects lost a ruling in its
patent-infringement claims against MVTec Software GmbH.  
 Concur Technologies Inc.  (CNQR US): The developer of
software that helps companies manage travel expenses may double
by the end of next year as its on-demand Internet system draws
clients seeking to pare costs, Barron’s reported, citing
analysts.  
 Google Inc.  (GOOG US): The online-search company may rise
as it expands its mobile-display advertising, broadens its reach
with mobile phones and offers other services after acquiring
companies, Barron’s reported, citing analysts.  
 Office Depot Inc.  (ODP US): The second-largest U.S. office-
supplies retailer said it won’t bid for the new Los Angeles
County office supplies agreement, citing “onerous” terms.  
 Safeway Inc.  (SWY US): The fourth-largest U.S. grocery
chain may gain as much as 50 percent as it benefits from an $8
billion remodeling campaign and a recovering California economy,
Barron’s reported, citing no one.  
 VF Corp.  (VFC US): The world’s largest apparel maker may
rise as much as 30 percent during the next 12 months as it
continues acquisitions and as consumer spending rebounds,
Barron’s reported, citing analysts.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lu Wang  in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        