-- Thailand Sells Sukuk to Serve Minority, Lure Global Funds: Islamic Finance
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-07-16T01:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/thailand-sells-sukuk-to-serve-minority-lure-global-funds-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             The state-run  Islamic Bank of
Thailand  plans to raise 5 billion baht ($155 million) in the
nation’s first sukuk sale, joining borrowers from Singapore to
India targeting investors from minority Muslim populations.  
 The  Thai Securities & Exchange Commission  plans to publish
guidelines next quarter for companies to issue Shariah-compliant
securities, Charuphan Intararoong, a spokeswoman for the
regulator, said in an interview yesterday in Bangkok. The
changes follow Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s pledge last
year to let four southern provinces adopt more Shariah laws.  
 Thailand wants capital-market products because demand for
Islamic services will increase in coming years to serve Thai
Muslims, who account for 4.3 percent of the 67 million
population, Charuphan said. Bangkok-based Ayudhya Fund
Management Co. and Malaysia’s AmInvestment Management Sdn. say
they may buy the sukuk, which will fund lending in a $272
billion economy that expanded 12 percent in the first three
months from a year earlier.  
 “We are looking further to harmonize the system to
accommodate Islamic financial transactions,” Islamic Bank of
Thailand President Dheerasak Suwannayos said in a July 14
interview. “The size of the Thai economy is very large and the
government also has many projects regarding infrastructure,
which is the target of Islamic banks.”  
 Products ‘Welcome’  
 CIMB Thai Bank Pcl, a unit of Malaysia’s biggest investment
bank, will help structure the Thai lender’s sale, Dheerasak said.
Sukuk often derive income to pay their holders from property or
projects such as roads and power stations.  
 “If the rating is good, we will be interested,” Jessada
Sookdhis, who helps manage $2.3 billion at Ayudhya Fund
Management, said in an interview yesterday. “State enterprises
normally get higher ratings.”  
 The nation has a BBB+ credit rating from Standard & Poor’s,
the third-lowest investment grade. Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  raised the 2010 growth forecast on June 29 to as
high as 6 percent from a March estimate of up to 5 percent.  
 Singapore’s central bank published regulations in May 2009
to help foster growth in the industry, while India’s southern
state of Kerala unveiled plans in December to sell sukuk to
finance infrastructure projects. Global sales of sukuk fell 29
percent to $6.6 billion so far this year.  
 Issuance Plans  
 Thailand had about $191 billion of bonds outstanding in
March, second only to Malaysia in Southeast Asia, according to
the Asian Development Bank.  
 “Thailand already has a vibrant conventional bond market
and they have excellent macro fundamentals to develop a sukuk
industry,”  Rohit Chawdhry , who helps oversee $350 million of
investments in Manama at Bahrain Islamic Bank, that country’s
second-largest Islamic lender, said in an interview yesterday.
“This will be advantageous for issuers from Thailand.”  
 The  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , made up of
Islamic bonds from Indonesia to Saudi Arabia, was little changed
yesterday and has returned 6.9 percent so far in 2010. Debt in
developing markets gained 7.4 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  
 The  spread  between the average yield for emerging-market
sukuk and the London interbank offered rate narrowed one basis
point yesterday to 4.16 percentage points, according to the
HSBC/NASDAQ Index. That’s down from 4.67 points at the end of
last year.  
 Market Rally  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 has dropped 50 basis points to 3.27 percent since it
started trading May 28, prices from HSBC Holdings Plc show.
Malaysia accounts for more than 60 percent of the $130 billion
sukuk market.  
 Asian issuers plan $5.8 billion of Islamic bonds in 2010
including a 1 billion ringgit ($312 million) offering from Kuala
Lumpur-based  Cagamas Bhd. , Malaysia’s biggest mortgage buyer.
Indonesia chose three banks this week to manage a sale of as
much as $650 million in sukuk in October.  
 Under a 1946 law, Thailand allows limited use of Islamic
rules in the mostly Muslim Southern provinces for settling
family and inheritance issues. Abhisit has advocated more
development aid for the region, where separatists have fought
for an independent state since Thailand formally annexed the
autonomous Malay-Muslim sultanate in 1902.  
 Thailand is building a sukuk market more than three years
after Krung Thai Asset Management Co. formed its first Shariah-
compliant  retirement fund  in December 2006 for equity investors.
The local unit of Royal Dutch Shell Plc was the first sukuk
issuer in 1990 in Malaysia, a market that has since expanded to
275 billion ringgit.  
 “Diversification is very important and sukuk as an asset
class is short of paper,”  Mohd Farid Kamarudin , who helps
manage 1.3 billion ringgit of Shariah-compliant assets at
AmInvestment said in an interview on July 13. “I hope more
sukuk will be issued from countries” such as the U.S., Thailand
or Australia, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Abhisit Vejjajiva, Thailand's prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Dario Pignatelli/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Abhisit Vejjajiva, Thailand's prime minister. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Abhisit Vejjajiva, Thailand's prime minister. Photographer: Dario Pignatelli/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
