-- Thailand's Economy Shows `Resilience,' May Expand 8% This Year, IMF Says
-- Suttinee Yuvejwattana
-- 2010-07-16T10:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/thailand-s-economy-shows-resilience-may-expand-8-this-year-imf-says.html

          
          
             The International Monetary Fund said
Thailand’s economy may expand as much as 8 percent this year
after deadly political protests ended last quarter without
derailing growth.  
 Gross domestic product will grow between 7 percent and 8
percent in 2010, compared with a previous target of 7 percent,
the IMF said today in a statement distributed in Bangkok.  
 Thailand’s central bank this week raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time in almost two years after
surging exports helped the nation weather two months of anti-
government protests that hurt tourism and disrupted some
 manufacturing . The $272 billion economy grew 12 percent in the
first three months of this year, the most since 1995.  
 “Thailand’s economy has shown remarkable resilience to
shocks over the past year,”  Joshua Felman , assistant director
of the IMF’s Asia and Pacific Department, told reporters today
in Bangkok. “The process of normalization is going to continue
for the rest of the year.”  
 Concerns about the pace of the global economic recovery and
local political uncertainties remain risks to growth, he said.  
 Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has set up committees
to reform the nation’s political system after clashes between
troops and protesters seeking an immediate election earlier this
year led to 89 deaths. Bangkok and other parts of the country
remain under a state of emergency imposed in April.  
 ‘Accommodative’ Policies  
 The  Bank of Thailand  increased the one-day bond repurchase
 rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent on July
14, after keeping it unchanged in the past nine meetings  
 “Fiscal and monetary policies remain accommodative” even
after the rate increase, the IMF said today, adding that the
decision made by policy makers this week was “the right one”.  
 Exports rose 42.5 percent in May, the biggest gain since
July 2008, and the central bank said this week that economic
expansion may be “higher than previously anticipated” after
the protests had a “limited” impact.  
 Thailand’s government in June raised its forecast for gross
domestic product growth this year to as much as 6 percent.  
 The IMF expects the Thai economy to grow 4 percent in 2011,
it said in the statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        