-- Taiwan Existing Home Prices May Drop 10% on Lending Curbs, Citigroup Says
-- Weiyi Lim
-- 2010-07-16T00:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/taiwan-s-existing-home-prices-may-decline-10-on-curbs-citigroup-says.html

          
          
             Taiwan’s existing homes prices may
fall as much as 10 percent in the second half after the central
bank told financial institutions to take steps to prevent
speculation, Citigroup Inc. said.  
 “I think it will definitely hurt the secondary market,”
Citigroup analyst  Dave Chiou  said in a telephone interview in
Taipei. “We are actually seeing a lot of speculators sell their
inventories in the market.”  
 Taiwan’s central bank Governor  Perng Fai-nan  wrote in a
July 2 letter to the chairmen of all financial institutions on
the island to take steps to prevent housing speculation after
complaints from citizens, according to a statement on the
central bank’s website July 11.  
 The monetary authority’s move comes as lending expands and
prices rise, spurred by record-low interest rates. The central
bank raised its benchmark rate to 1.375 percent on June 24 as
the economy recovers and introduced a 70 percent cap on loans
for second homes while ordering banks not to extend further
loans for renovations.  
 Speculators favor existing homes in Taiwan because homes
older than 30 years have a higher built-up space relative to
land space, said Chiou, part of a team ranked first for Taiwan
research by Institutional Investor for 2008 and 2009. That means
that developers will offer higher prices for older homes, he
said.  
 Pre-sale Market  
 The market for new homes may take longer to be affected by
the policies, said Chiou, 32, who has been analyzing the
island’s property market for seven years.  
 “There’s less speculation in the pre-sale market,” said
Chiou. “Most people buying are buying for upgrades, so prices
are going to be fairly stable.”  
 The central bank said July 8 it met with executives from
commercial banks following media reports that some lenders
classified home loans taken out by company executives as
corporate loans, instead of consumer banking, to evade the
stricter rules.  
 “It’s been hard for the central bank to prevent these
actions even after the recent measures,” Perng wrote in the
July 2 letter. “Please explain to your workers to closely guard
against such cases, as effectively controlling this risk is
better for the healthy development of the housing market.”  
 Housing prices in metropolitan Taipei may climb a further
10 percent this year, Lee Jain-ming, a researcher at Sinyi
Realty Co., said in May. Higher interest rates may have little
effect on damping prices as wealthy buyers don’t need to rely on
bank loans to fund purchases, he said at the time.  
 Housing prices in Taipei climbed 4.8 percent in the first
quarter, Lee said. Home prices in Hong Kong have risen almost 40
percent from the beginning of 2009,  Norman Chan , chief executive
of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, said May 20. Private
residential sales in Singapore rose to a nine-month high of
2,208 in April, the Urban Redevelopment Authority said, the
highest since July 2009.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Weiyi Lim  in Taipei at 
 Wlim26@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        