-- Aluminum Premiums Increase in North America on Scarcity of Metal, CRU Says
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-07-16T08:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/aluminum-premiums-increase-in-north-america-on-scarcity-of-metal-cru-says.html

          
          
             Premiums paid for aluminum in North
America climbed this month because of a scarcity of the
lightweight metal, researcher CRU said.  
 The Midwest premium increased to 6.5 cents a pound at the
start of this month,  Marco Georgiou , an analyst at London-based
CRU, said yesterday. That was a five-year high and compares with
5.5 cents at the end of 2009, he said. The premium is added to
the price of metal for immediate delivery on the London Metal
Exchange.  
 Aluminum stockpiles in LME warehouses in the U.S. have
dropped 5.4 percent from this year’s peak in May. Financing
accords have tied up about 80 percent of all inventories tracked
by the LME, according to estimates cited by Sucden Financial
Ltd. Immediate-delivery metal’s discount to the three-month
price has shrunk because of the supply dearth.  
 “The spot market is quite tight,” Georgiou said by phone.
“We still have a lot of metal tied up in financing deals.”  
 Transportation difficulties also have crimped supplies,
according to Georgiou. The number of trucking companies in the
U.S., the world’s second-largest consumer of the metal after
China, slid during the global financial crisis,  William Adams ,
an analyst at Basemetals.com, said on July 14 during a
presentation at Sucden in London.  
 “There have been logistical constraints to get the metal
out of the warehouse and onto the correct kind of truck,”
Georgiou said.  
 Exchange Rule  
 Adams also cited an LME rule that limits deliveries of
aluminum from inventories monitored by the exchange to 1,500
metric tons daily for each warehouse company and each location.
The LME tracks stocks of the metal in the Americas, Europe and
Asia.  
 “There is a limit on how much metal warehouses can let out
per day, and that is also keeping tightness on the market,”
Adams said.  
 Demand for aluminum in North America improved every month
from January to June, according to Georgiou. He predicted,
though, that the current scarcity will ease because more
production is expected to come on stream in the current quarter,
particularly in the Middle East, and demand likely will slow in
the current half.  
 “We probably would expect the premiums to either peak or
be close to it over the next couple of months or so,” Georgiou
said.  
 Aluminum for three-month delivery rose $5, or 0.2 percent,
to $2,021 a ton at 9:30 a.m. on the LME. Immediate-delivery
metal’s discount to the three-month price, the so-called
contango, narrowed yesterday to $16.25, the lowest closing level
since April 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        