-- Apple May Offer IPhone Cases, Rebates to Address Flaw
-- Connie Guglielmo
-- 2010-07-16T14:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/apple-may-offer-iphone-users-cases-rebates-to-address-flaw-analysts-say.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. , looking to avoid a
recall of the iPhone 4, may give away rubber cases or offer an
in-store fix to address a design flaw in the newest version of
its top-selling product, according to analysts.  
 The  company , which is holding a news conference at 1 p.m.
New York time today, doesn’t plan to announce a recall, a person
familiar with the matter said yesterday. Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Jobs  may instead offer the giveaways or refunds to
dissatisfied customers, some analysts said.  
 “The most important thing that Steve has to do is get up
there and admit there’s a problem, tell the truth, and then
apologize for it,” said  Charlie Wolf , an analyst at Needham &
Co. in New York. “People love Apple. All they need is an excuse
to come back. An apology is the way to go.”  
 Apple scheduled the event, at its Cupertino, California,
headquarters, after iPhone 4 users complained about reception
problems. Some customers say calls are dropped when the device
is held a certain way. Apple engineers warned Jobs last year
that the metal antenna surrounding the phone might interfere
with calls, according to another person with knowledge of the
matter.  
 Consumer Reports said this week it wouldn’t endorse the
iPhone 4 following tests that showed problems sending and
receiving calls.  
 Apple rose 41 cents to $251.86 at 10:06 a.m. New York time
in  Nasdaq Stock Market   trading . The shares, up 19 percent this
year before today, have dropped 7.2 percent since June 23, a day
before the iPhone 4 went on sale.  
 Apple declined to elaborate on what will be discussed.  
 In-Store Fix?  
 Maynard Um,  an analyst at UBS AG, said Apple could give
away free  Bumpers  -- rubber and plastic iPhone 4 cases that the
company now sells for $29 each.  Keith Bachman , an analyst with
BMO Capital Markets, said the company might offer refunds to
unhappy customers.  Gene Munster  at Piper Jaffray & Co. said
there is a “50 percent chance” Apple sends iPhone 4 users to
its stores for a free “in-store fix” consisting of a coating
that surrounds the antenna.  
 Katy Huberty  of Morgan Stanley said Apple needs to extend
concessions to disgruntled users to “preserve the brand and
loyal customer base.”  Abhey Lamba,  an analyst at ISI Group
Inc., said Apple has to do something to counter the negative
publicity generated by Consumer Reports’ findings.  
 Product Recall?  
 None of the analysts say a product recall is likely.  
 “Many existing iPhone users are not complaining about the
issue, but the backlash from the issue will limit Apple’s
ability to attract new users,” said Lamba, who is based in New
York. “At the very least, many users might decide to wait for a
redesign to adopt the new phone.”  
 Lamba is one of 44 analysts tracked by Bloomberg that
 recommend  buying the stock. Four rate Apple “hold,” and none
advises selling the shares.  
 Um at UBS estimated that offering free Bumpers would shave
about 2 cents a share off  Apple’s earnings  in the quarter ending
in September. BMO’s Bachman said the Bumper giveaway would have
“a very small financial impact” of less than 2 cents a share.
Both he and Um are based in New York.  
 Salespeople at Apple  retail stores  in New York, San
Francisco, Los Angeles, Houston and Seattle said yesterday that
the iPhone 4 was sold out and that customers should expect a
two- to three-week wait for the device.  
 Recall Odds  
 Apple is telling visitors to its  website  that iPhone 4
models will ship within three weeks. The company sells a 16-
gigabyte model for $199 and a 32-gigabyte version for $299.
Those prices require U.S. customers to sign up for a two-year
service contract with  AT&T Inc.   
 In the three weeks since Apple released the iPhone 4, users
have complained about losing reception when they cover the
lower-left corner. Paddy Power Plc, Ireland’s biggest bookmaker,
said this week that the odds of a recall increased after the
Consumer Reports review, leading to a “betting frenzy.”  
 A recall could cost as much as $900 million if there were a
problem with the device’s hardware,  David McQueen , an analyst at
Informa Telecoms and Media, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “Since its launch it’s been the darling of the
smartphone industry. Apple’s competitors will be hoping it’s a
chink in its armor.”  
 ‘Master of Branding’  
 The iPhone, introduced in June 2007, is Apple’s top-selling
product, accounting for about 40 percent of  revenue . The
company, which reports third-quarter earnings on July 20, sold
1.7 million of its latest iteration in the first three days.  
 The iPhone 4 has a new design, with the antenna built into
a metal band that surrounds the phone, instead of inside the
device. Apple suggested last month that users either buy a case
or avoid holding the lower-left corner of the phone in a way
“that covers both sides of the black strip in the metal band.”  
 “The best thing to do is to address the issue head on,”
said  Marc Benioff , CEO of Salesforce.com Inc. and an iPhone
user. Jobs “will probably want to put this antenna issue behind
him. He’s the master of branding and will show the world how to
deal with this and move on.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Connie Guglielmo  in San Francisco at 
 cguglielmo1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Apple Inc. chief executive officer Steve Jobs. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Doherty, research director for Evisioneering Group Inc., talks about Apple Inc.'s antenna problems with the new iPhone 4.
     Doherty speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The iPhone 4 has a new design  
                       
                         
                           David Paul Morris/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
