-- South African Platinum Mines Told to Limit Mining Panels to Improve Safety
-- Carli Lourens
-- 2010-07-16T16:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/aquarius-platinum-ordered-to-reduce-mining-in-south-africa-for-safety.html

          
          
             South Africa, the world’s largest
platinum producer, ordered mines in the North West region to
limit mining by reducing the size of mineable rock panels and
leaving bigger support pillars behind to improve safety,
 Aquarius Platinum Ltd.  said.  
 The width of each rock panel should be reduced to 6 meters
(20 feet) from 10 meters now, according to an instruction from
the principal inspector of mines in the region, Aquarius said in
a statement today. The directive was given to help prevent
rockfalls and rockbursts, Aquarius said, citing the order.  
 The impact of the directive is that it cuts the amount of
the ore body that the company can mine.  
 Five workers were crushed in Aquarius’s Marikana mine when
about 500 metric tons of rock collapsed on them on July 6. Last
year nine workers died after they were trapped by falling rock
at the world’s largest platinum mine, the Impala Lease area run
by Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. South Africa produces more than
three-quarters of global output of the metal, used in vehicle
emission devices and jewelry.  
 The amount of accidents happening in the platinum industry
“is not something we’re used to seeing,” said  Thabo Gazi ,
South Africa’s chief mines inspector. Mine design rather than
depth is the “fundamental issue,” he said. Mines Minister
 Susan Shabangu  met with 15 platinum company leaders in Pretoria
yesterday to discuss safety.  
 Impala has already implemented the change at its Rustenburg
operations, spokesman  Bob Gilmour  said by mobile phone.  
 All Mines  
 Anglo Platinum Ltd. , the world’s largest producer of the
metal, didn’t immediately respond to phone messages or an e-mail
seeking comment.  
 Aquarius, which said its Kroondal and Marikana mines are
affected by the instruction, fell 1.22 rand, or 3.5 percent, to
close at 34 rand at 5 p.m. in Johannesburg. Aquarius is still
assessing the full effect of the order, spokesman  Gavin Mackay 
said by phone from London.  
 The instruction is to all mines in the region, Mackay said.
Coal and chrome ore is also mined in that region.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        