-- ArcelorMittal South Africa to Shut Saldanha Steel Mill as Kumba Talks Fail
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-16T16:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/arcelormittal-south-africa-initiates-plans-to-close-saldanha-steel-plant.html

          
          
             ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. , a
unit of the world’s largest steelmaker, said it will close its
Saldanha plant and cut all steel exports after failing to reach
an interim iron ore supply agreement with  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.   
 The plans will affect as many as 4,000 temporary and
permanent jobs at the steelmaker and “seriously impact”
industries that depend on its output, the company said in a
statement today. The ArcelorMittal unit employs 10,000 workers.  
 Saldanha is situated in one of South Africa’s poorest
areas, on barren land 109 kilometers (68 miles) north of  Cape
Town , and was opened in 1998 by formerly state-owned Iscor Ltd.
and the Industrial Development Corp., the government development
agency. Iscor’s steel business, which was renamed ArcelorMittal
South Africa, took ownership of the plant after Iscor was split
into separate steel and mining companies.  
 A pact agreed as part of the split entitled ArcelorMittal
South Africa to buy iron ore, a steelmaking ingredient, from the
mining group’s Sishen mine at 3 percent above production costs.
A dispute erupted in February after Kumba, which now controls
Sishen, canceled the nine-year-old supply pact. The dispute is
now in arbitration.  
 The whole of the Saldanha area “will be negatively
affected,” said  Abri Du Plessis , chief investment officer of
Gryphon Asset Management, by phone from Cape Town today.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa, which gets two-thirds of its
ore needs from Kumba, supplies South Africa with about 70
percent of steel requirements.  
 ‘Assessing All Options’  
 The country’s Department of Trade and Industry said it’s
“assessing all options” to ensure the economy isn’t damaged by
the dispute and offered to mediate between the parties. Trade
Minister  Rob Davies  aims to meet both companies on July 19 to
discuss the dispute, department spokesman Sidwell Medupe said.  
 By threatening to close Saldanha, ArcelorMittal South
Africa is trying to “soften” the government’s stance toward
it, Gryphon’s Du Plessis said. The government “has spent a lot
on rail and electricity” in the Saldanha area, he said.  
 “We reject the plant closure by ArcelorMittal and such
comments on jobs borders on being irresponsible,” said Irvin
Jim, general secretary of the National Union of Metalworkers of
South Africa, which represents half of the steelmaker’s workers.  
 “Companies must do everything to make sure jobs are
maintained,” he said by mobile phone.  
 Prepay for Ore  
 South Africa’s unemployment rate rose for a fourth
consecutive quarter in the first three months of the year as
companies shed jobs while waiting for signs that the recovery in
Africa’s largest economy is sustainable.  
 Earlier, Kumba said that from Aug. 1 it will only deliver
ore to ArcelorMittal South Africa if it gets paid for the
shipments 48 hours in advance at the rates proposed, and if back
payments for ore delivered from March 1 are made.  
 That came after ArcelorMittal rejected two options put
forward by Kumba, either that the steelmaker pay the difference
between the original pact and the market price into an escrow
account until the dispute is resolved, or that it pays $50 a
metric ton for ore supplied to Saldanha on the coast and $80 a
ton for Newcastle in KwaZulu-Natal and Vanderbijlpark near
Johannesburg.  
 Threaten Viability  
 “It’s not possible for ArcelorMittal to agree to the
prices being demanded,” it said in today’s statement. The
prices being asked “would threaten the viability” of the
steelmaker’s business.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa,  46.8 percent-owned  by
Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, produced 8 million metric tons
of steel in 2009. Saldanha can produce 1.2 million tons a year
according to the company’s website.  
 Shares  in ArcelorMittal South Africa declined as much as
5.3 percent to 71.33 rand in Johannesburg trading, its biggest
fall in two and half months. The stock closed 4.5 percent weaker
at 72 rand at 5:00 p.m. local time. Shares in the steelmaker
have declined 37 percent since Feb. 26, when Kumba announced
that it was ending the supply agreement.  
 Kumba shares  gained 3.60 rand, or 1.1 percent, to 339.10
rand.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        