-- Harrah's Puts Paulson in `Driver's Seat' for Public Offering
-- Jonathan Keehner
-- 2010-07-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/harrah-s-puts-john-paulson-in-driver-s-seat-for-planned-public-offering.html

          
          
             Harrah’s Entertainment Inc. , the
world’s biggest casino owner, expects to list some shares
publicly in coming months because of the deal owners Apollo
Management LP and TPG struck with billionaire  John Paulson .  
 Paulson won the right to be the first equity holder to
register and may publicly sell his stock as part of his hedge
fund’s $710 million swap of debt for equity with Las Vegas-based
Harrah’s, according to the June 3 investment  agreement . Once
approved by regulators, Paulson’s 9.9 percent stake will be
registered on the New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq Stock Market
“within a matter of months,” Harrah’s Chief Executive Officer
 Gary Loveman  said in an interview.  
 Leon Black ’s Apollo and TPG, run by  David Bonderman , joined
forces in January 2008 to buy Harrah’s in a $30.7 billion deal -
- the biggest casino buyout -- just as the gambling industry
plunged into record declines. After trimming about $4 billion of
debt through discount deals with banks and exchanges with
creditors, Harrah’s offered Paulson new equity in the company
for his debt, with rights other  shareholders  don’t have.  
 “This puts Paulson in the driver’s seat” because his
hedge fund, New York-based Paulson & Co., can push Harrah’s to
register his shares faster than other investors may have
preferred, said  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the University of
Chicago’s Booth School of Business.  
 The agreement with Paulson, who bought some debt at
distressed levels, marks a shift in efforts to salvage the
company from debt restructuring and cost-cutting to equity
capital and growth.  
 ‘Positively Received’  
 “There are investors in this company that have written the
equity to zero,” said Loveman, who is also Harrah’s chairman.
“This transaction has been uniformly, positively received”
because it reduces the  debt load  and is a “demonstration of
confidence in the company’s future,” Loveman said.  
 Apollo and TPG, two of the world’s biggest private-equity
firms, have helped reduce Harrah’s balance sheet over the past
19 months with deals that exchanged bonds for new discounted
notes, paid down loans for a fraction of principal, amended
lender agreements and extended key maturities through 2015. It
also trimmed almost 21 percent of the workforce and slashed
spending to prevent declining revenue from decimating cash flow.  
 Paulson’s fund is the second-biggest shareholder in MGM
Resorts International, after founder  Kirk Kerkorian , and the
fourth-largest owner of Boyd Gaming Corp., investments he
disclosed in May. As part of his bet on a U.S. economic
recovery, Paulson has also invested in Bank of America Corp. and
Citigroup Inc., two of the three largest U.S. banks.  
 A spokesman for Paulson declined to comment on the firm’s
plans for its Harrah’s investment. Apollo and TPG also declined
to comment.  
 Other Investors  
 Harrah’s owners will decide “what other equity among the
equity now in private hands” may also be registered along with
Paulson’s, Loveman said. “Whatever that turns out to be, it
would represent a very small minority of the total equity
ownership of the company that would be traded publicly.”  
 Once casino and securities regulators have approved
Paulson’s stake, “there’s a clock that starts that says from
that point forward at some point there has to be a listing that
allows him to exit if he wishes,” Loveman said, adding the
period was “measured in months.”  
 Harrah’s, whose brands include the Caesars, Harrah’s and
Horseshoe casinos, the  World Series of Poker  and London Clubs,
was the first casino company listed on the New York Stock
Exchange in 1973, two years after its public trading debut on
the over-the-counter market.  
 Bingo Parlor  
 Founded by Bill Harrah as a bingo parlor in Reno, Nevada,
in 1937, Harrah’s today operates 52 properties in seven
countries, becoming the world’s biggest casino company largely
through acquisitions. Harrah’s was bought by Holiday Inns Inc.
in 1980, spun off as part of the Promus Companies in 1990, and
spun off again as Harrah’s Entertainment in 1995. A series of
 acquisitions  including Showboat Inc., Players International
Inc., Harveys Casino Resorts and Horseshoe Gaming Holding Corp.
culminated in the $9.3 billion takeover of Caesars Entertainment
Inc. in June 2005.  
 Paulson’s deal, which exchanges $710 million in Harrah’s
bonds he bought at a discount for the equity stake, together
with Apollo and TPG’s swap of $408 million notes for about 5.6
percent new equity as part of the same deal, suggests a Harrah’s
equity value of about $7.2 billion.  
 Public Price  
 Harrah’s equity holders currently value their stakes in the
company based on marks provided by Apollo or TPG, Loveman said.
If Paulson’s shares began to trade, “there would be a public
market equity price that they would have to take into
consideration.”  
 “I don’t think anybody’s put off by that,” Loveman said.  
 Harrah’s was taken private by Apollo and TPG in a deal
first struck in December 2006 and closed in January 2008, adding
$12.9 billion of debt.  
 Within months of the buyout, Harrah’s said it would pay
interest on $1.5 billion of loans and bonds with more debt
through a so-called payment-in-kind feature. In December 2008,
it asked bondholders to swap debt at a loss or risk seniority.  
 Last year, Harrah’s succeeded with a second distressed bond
exchange, issued notes as markets rallied in June and September
to repay other borrowings, borrowed $1 billion to tender for
near-maturity debt at a discount and bought back some mortgages
for 25 cents on the dollar.  
 This year, the company extended maturities on another $5.5
billion of loans. The measures cleared all significant
maturities through 2015, giving the company about $3 billion in
cash and available credit to expand.  
 ‘More Creative’  
 “Harrah’s has certainly been more creative than some other
gaming companies in reducing its debt,” said  Robert LaFleur ,
who covers casino companies at Hudson Securities. “They avoided
bankruptcy and may now be in a position to take advantage of
acquisition opportunities.”  
 Loveman scooped up Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino from
default in February, giving Harrah’s a Las Vegas Strip property
neighboring its other resorts for less than it would cost to
build. He also bought an Ohio racetrack ahead of legalized slots
and has “dusted off” plans for a Strip retail development
featuring a giant Ferris wheel. Harrah’s is seeking to expand in
Massachusetts and Macau, China, and has sought bids this year
for its Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas.  
 Note Prices  
 The credit crisis proved lucrative in another way to Apollo
and TPG. The funds profited by trading debt in Harrah’s and
other portfolio companies separate from their restructuring
maneuvers. Harrah’s $470.5 million of 10.75 percent notes due in
2016, which fell as low as 13 cents on the dollar as junk
collapsed in February 2009, are now trading at 80.6 cents,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 “They’ve done very well out of it,” Loveman said.
Harrah’s was “never” at risk of bankruptcy, and the market
panic created rare opportunities to eliminate debt, he said.  
 “You file Chapter 11 because you run out of money, but we
never came anywhere near running out,” Loveman said. “There
would be no reason on earth why you would do that unless you had
no possible alternative. We had hundreds of alternatives.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Beth Jinks  in Las Vegas at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Keehner  in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       John A. Paulson, president of Paulson & Co.  
                       
                         
                           Rick Maiman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         John A. Paulson, president of Paulson & Co. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     John A. Paulson, president of Paulson & Co. Photographer: Rick Maiman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
