-- Stocks Tumble as Banks, GE Signal Weak Revenue Growth
-- Saeromi Shin
-- 2010-07-16T07:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/asian-stocks-fall-yen-strengthens-on-weaker-u-s-output-google-earnings.html

          
          
             Asian stocks  declined, led by the
biggest slump in Japanese shares in almost six weeks, after the
yen strengthened and as U.S. manufacturing weakened and Google
Inc. posted disappointing earnings.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  lost 1 percent to 115.78 at
4:05 p.m. in Tokyo and Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average tumbled
2.9 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 increased 0.4 percent to 253.86.
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  futures fell 0.2 percent. The yen
gained versus all 16 of its major counterparts and rose toward
the strongest level this year.  
 Asian markets slid after a Federal Reserve report showed
factory output fell 0.4 percent in June and as  Google  reported
lower-than-estimated earnings. Shares of Japanese exporters
dived as the yen appreciated, reducing their overseas earnings.  
 “Investors are reacting to the negative data that point to
some slowdown in economic activity,” said  Chu Moon Sung , a fund
manager at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co. in Seoul,
which manages $26 billion.  
 Almost three stocks retreated for each that gained among
the MSCI index’s 985 companies.  Nintendo Co.  dropped 2.6 percent
after its U.S. sales fell by a third in June. Sony Corp. plunged
5.1 percent and  Nissan Motor Co.  declined 3.4 percent as the yen
headed for a 1.6 percent gain this week. The Japanese currency
traded at 87.27 per dollar from 87.40 in New York yesterday,
approaching this year’s high of 86.97 set on July 1.  
 Goldman Settlement  
 Stocks  fell in the U.S. yesterday before staging a rebound
in the final hour of trading. Losses were limited as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. agreed to a $550 million settlement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Senate passed a
financial-industry regulation measure and BP Plc said it stopped
the flow of oil at its leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico for
the first time since April. The S&P 500 rose 0.1 percent.  
 Goldman Sachs surged 4.4 percent. That helped overshadow
the 4 percent decline in  Google  after it reported profit
excluding some items of $6.45 a share in the second quarter.
Analysts estimated $6.52 a share, based on a Bloomberg survey.  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  shares  climbed 2.5 percent
on its first day of trading in Hong Kong. The stock fell 0.4
percent in Shanghai, erasing part of yesterday’s gains that
marked the smallest first-day advance among the nine lenders
that have sold shares in the city.  CapitaMalls Malaysia Trust ,
the nation’s second-biggest real estate investment trust that
also debuted for the first time today, fell 2.5 percent.  
 Consumer Prices  
 New Zealand’s dollar strengthened 1.6 percent to 71.81 U.S.
cents from 72.75 cents after Statistics New Zealand said
 consumer prices  rose 0.3 percent in the first quarter. That’s
smaller than the median estimate of a 0.4 percent gain in a
Bloomberg survey of 15 economists, giving central bank Governor
 Alan Bollard  room to raise interest rates at a gradual pace.  
 The U.S. is scheduled to release its consumer price index
today, which may show a 0.1 percent decrease compared with May,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. A separate report may also show U.S. household
sentiment deteriorated this month.  
 Reports yesterday also showed producer prices declined 0.5
percent in June following a 0.3 percent drop the month before
and factories pulled back in the  Philadelphia  and New York
regions this month.  
 “The market is becoming increasingly worried about
downside risks to the U.S. economy,” said  Toshiya Yamauchi , a
senior foreign-exchange analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd.  
 -- With assistance from  Shani Raja  and  Lisa Pham  in Sydney, Nick
Gentle in Hong Kong and  Rocky Swift  in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Gerard Petti works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks slid, wiping out a weekly advance, as revenue at Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and General Electric Co. missed analyst estimates and a gauge of consumer confidence slid to the lowest in a year. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Seery of Olympus Futures and John O'Donoghue, head of equities at Cowen & Co., talk about the outlook for the U.S. stock market.
     Seery and O'Donoghue talk with Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Adam Johnson and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Asian markets slid  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A pedestrian walks past an electronic stock board outside a securities firm in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A pedestrian walks past an electronic stock board outside a securities firm in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
