-- Assaubayev Family Says Polyus Is Diverting Attention From Government Probe
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-07-16T15:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/assaubayev-family-says-polyus-is-diverting-attention-from-government-probe.html

          
          
             The  Assaubayev  family, locked in a
dispute with  OAO Polyus Gold , said Russia’s biggest producer of
the metal is using allegations against the family to divert
attention from a Kazakh government probe of the company.  
 Polyus, which acquired 50.1 percent of  KazakhGold Group
Ltd.  last year from the Assaubayevs, may lose the Kazakh unit’s
mining permits as a result of the investigation, the family said
today in a statement. KazakhGold management, including Chairman
 Evgeny Ivanov , who is also chief executive officer of Polyus,
may face criminal proceedings in Kazakhstan, the family said.  
 “Whether or not KazakhGold will lose its mining licenses
in the country, will totally depend on how active a position the
Kazakh regulators will take in defending the interests of the
Assaubayevs,” Ivanov said today by telephone. “If the licenses
are withdrawn, we will consider this unlawful and take action.”  
 The dispute over KazakhGold may thwart the plans of Russian
billionaires  Mikhail Prokhorov  and  Suleiman Kerimov  to transform
Moscow-based Polyus into a U.K.-listed company, a step towards a
merger with a global mining company, according to  VTB  Capital.
KazakhGold, registered in Jersey and with a primary listing in
London, said in June it intends to acquire its parent Polyus in
a so-called reverse takeover.  
 Approval Annulled  
 Kazakhstan’s Industry Ministry said July 12 it annulled its
previous approval of Polyus’s 2009 acquisition and ruled out the
sale of additional shares by KazakhGold as part of the reverse
takeover.  
 Polyus “does not expect the recent events in Kazakhstan to
result in the reversal of the acquisition of KazakhGold made
last August,” Ivanov said. “Kazakhstan chose last year not to
exercise its pre-emptive right to buy KazakhGold shares before
Polyus, and this now should not be reversed.”  
 Polyus and affiliates filed a lawsuit in London on June 25
against members of the Assaubayev family, who are the former
directors of KazakhGold, Gold Lion Holdings Ltd. and Hawkinson
Capital Inc., seeking damages of more than $450 million over
allegations they misappropriated funds and misrepresented output
and profit figures from 2006 to 2008.  
 The Assaubayevs said July 1 the lawsuit was “without any
foundation” because Polyus had “extensive access” to
KazakhGold books prior to the purchase. KazakhGold was regularly
checked by the energy and mineral resources ministers, the
financial regulation authorities and other Kazakh state bodies
and no discrepancies were found, the Assaubayevs said today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        