-- Tata Consultancy Climbs to Become Asia's Most Valuable Software Company
-- Ketaki Gokhale
-- 2010-07-16T12:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/tata-consultancy-climbs-in-mumbai-after-profit-beats-estimates-on-orders.html

          
          
             Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. 
surged to a record after reporting profit that beat analysts’
estimates helping it top  Infosys Technologies Ltd.  as Asia’s
most valuable software developer.  
 Tata Consultancy  climbed 6.6 percent to 833.65 rupees,
giving it a market value of $34.9 billion and topping Infosys’
capitalization of $34 billion for the first time since April.
Tata Consultancy’s shares lead  gains  on the Bombay Stock
Exchange’s benchmark Sensitive Index, or Sensex.  
 The results, which reflected a surge in orders, eased
concern that rising wages and a weakening euro were eroding
profit at computer services providers. Infosys earlier in the
week reported an unexpected drop in profit that at the time
helped push shares of Indian computer-services companies lower.  
 “We’re seeing momentum pick up, with strong client
additions this quarter,” said  Pankaj Kapoor , an analyst with
the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Mumbai, who has a
“buy” rating on Tata’s stock. “It indicates higher IT
spending going forward, which will eventually flow into
discretionary spending in the second half of the year.”  
 Net income  gained 20 percent to 18.4 billion rupees ($394
million) in the three months ended June 30, from 15.3 billion
rupees a year earlier, Mumbai-based Tata Consultancy said
yesterday after trading hours. Profit beat the 17.6 billion
rupee average of 25 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sales Rise  
 Sales at the company, which provides computer services and
back office support to clients from  Citigroup Inc.  to General
Electric Co., rose 14 percent to 82.2 billion rupees, surpassing
the 80.6 billion rupee average of 36 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  
 Tata Consultancy added 36 clients and won orders during the
quarter from Norway’s  Telenor ASA  and entered into an agreement
with Rolls-Royce Group Plc to set up a design and engineering
services center in Bangalore. The company is in talks to add 15
“large” contracts, Chief Executive Officer  Natarajan Chandrasekaran  said at a press conference in Mumbai.  
 Worldwide information technology spending, which includes
computer equipment and software purchases, will grow 9.3 percent
this year after falling 9.7 percent to $1.4 trillion in 2009,
according to estimates at Forrester Research Inc. The U.S. will
lead the growth, spending $550 billion on information technology
this year, according to the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm.  
 Tata Consultancy added 3,271 employees during the quarter,
raising the total to 163,700. The company, which expects to hire
40,000 people this fiscal year, will raise salaries by an
average 13 percent starting this month to discourage workers
from leaving, said  Ajoy Mukherjee , vice president and global
head of human resources at Tata Consultancy.  
 Employee attrition was 13.1 percent in the quarter, rising
from 11.8 percent the previous quarter, according to the company.  
 Tata Consultancy in April said it would spend $200 million
in the coming fiscal year boosting wages. Infosys raised wages
14 percent to 16 percent, the highest in the industry last
quarter, to its Indian employees, Chief Executive Officer  S. Gopalakrishnan  said in an interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        