-- Hayward to Get `Life Back' as BP Shrinks Following Spill
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-07-17T04:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/hayward-will-get-life-back-as-bp-shrinks-to-pay-for-blowout-s-aftermath.html

          
          
             BP Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward , who drew fire for saying he wanted his life back at the
peak of the U.S. oil spill crisis, may get his wish.  
 With its Gulf of Mexico well under control for the first
time in three months, Europe’s largest oil producer may look to
change  leadership  as it starts rebuilding its reputation,
management experts, industry analysts and investors said.  
 Hayward, 53, has been the focus of criticism for BP’s
handling of a disaster that wiped out 47 billion pounds ($73
billion) of market value and led the U.S. Congress to introduce
legislation that would bar the company from new drilling leases.  
 “It’s much easier to rebuild trust with the public with
some new faces rather than the same ones that are being
mocked,” said David Henderson, a lecturer in corporate
leadership at the London School of Economics. “So much of
investor confidence is based on perceptions of credibility.”  
 Any successor would lead a shrinking BP as the company
sells oil and gas fields to raise cash for the $20 billion fund
Hayward and Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  promised President
 Barack Obama  that will compensate shrimpers, restaurateurs and
other Gulf Coast residents.  
 BP is near the sale of assets including a stake in Alaska’s
Prudhoe Bay field to Apache Corp. for as much as $11 billion,
people familiar with the situation said July 15. Holdings in
Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia and Vietnam may also be sold.  
 BP Spokeswoman  Sheila Williams  said Hayward remains chief
executive and has no plans to step down.  
 Asset Sales  
 BP has been forced to sell assets because of rising costs
from the damaged well that’s spilled millions of barrels of oil
into the Gulf since the April 20 rig explosion. BP has already
spent more than $3.5 billion trying to stop the leak and clean
up the crude.  Liabilities  could reach $60 billion, according to
Oppenheimer & Co.  
 Hayward’s early optimism that the leak could be contained
waned after repeated failures to stop it, prompting the  New York
Daily News  to dub him “the most hated man in America.” On May
30, he said: “Nobody wants this over more than I do. I want my
life back.” The comment prompted criticism from families of the
11 people killed in the rig blast.  
 This month, after handing over responsibility for fighting
the spill to Executive Director  Robert Dudley , Hayward visited
Russia, Azerbaijan, Abu Dhabi and Angola to persuade other
nations where BP operates of the company’s  viability .  
 ‘Restore Credibility’  
 “Hayward has done a lot in the past weeks to restore his
credibility, but it’s still really damaged, particularly in the
States,” said  Dougie Youngson , an analyst at Arbuthnot
Securities Ltd. in London who has a “sell” recommendation on
the stock. “Common sense says that once the well is capped, for
good and permanently, it would probably be an opportunity to
move on.”  
 Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  told Yahoo! News and
the Huffington Post July 8 that Hayward will have to go as CEO
because of the spill.  
 BP shares  plunged  as much as 55 percent since the
explosion, then rallied since bottoming on June 25, as the
company moved closer to capping the well and ending the gusher
of crude. BP rose 5.4 pence to 407.15 in London trading
yesterday.  
 Iain Conn , head of refining and marketing at BP and one of
the main executives under Hayward, said June 29 the chief
executive is backed by the board and is not about to resign.  
 Conn may be a candidate to replace Hayward if he decides to
move aside, analysts said.  Andy Inglis , the head of exploration
and production, may be another, though the accident occurred
within his unit. Dudley also has been identified by analysts as
a possible successor.  
 Job Candidates  
 Outside candidates for the job may include Frank Chapman,
chief executive officer of U.K. oil and gas producer BG Group
Plc, or Charles “Chip” Goodyear, the former CEO of BHP
Billiton Ltd., the Australian mining and oil company.  
 Hayward, who took the top job in 2007, pledged to apply a
“laser like focus” on safety as he sought to lower BP’s
operating costs and bolster production. He took office from John
Browne two years after a deadly explosion at the company’s Texas
City, Texas, refinery.  
 Ending the leak and plugging the well would allow BP to
assess its liabilities and plan a turnaround. That’s likely to
take place without both Hayward and Svanberg,  Colin McLean , who
helps manage about $950 million at SVM Asset Management Ltd. in
Edinburgh and has sold all his BP shares.  
 “It will be easier for them to step down when the well is
killed,” McLean said in an interview. “Hayward has been a very
visible embodiment of the safety record and the problems, but
the company needs to draw a line under the expansion of
liabilities before he goes.”  
 Rivaling Exxon  
 The company plans to raise money to pay those liabilities
through asset sales, primarily oil and gas fields.  
 BP  produced  3.95 million barrels of oil and gas in the
first quarter, second only to Exxon Mobil Corp. among non-state
companies. Selling half of its Prudhoe Bay stake and its 60
percent holding in Argentina’s Pan American Energy LLC would lop
more than 100,000 barrels from that total. A halt to drilling in
the Gulf of Mexico will cut another 50,000 barrels of BP output
next year, according to the company.  
 “They could just become an operator with a declining
 production  profile,” said McLean, of SVM. “There is a real
risk that they can’t grow.”  
 BP reports second-quarter  earnings  on July 27. Production
is likely to have dropped 4 percent from a year earlier because
of field maintenance and less output from the Gulf of Mexico,
according to broker Collins Stewart Plc in London, where BP also
is based.  
 Safety Focus  
 Before the spill, Hayward said he wanted to increase
production by between 1 percent and 2 percent a year. The
biggest stream of new output comes in the U.S. Gulf, home to
about 25 percent of the 40 projects planned by 2015.  
 “Clearly BP’s original production targets are likely to
change,” said  Ivor Pether , who helps manage $9.2 billion at
Royal London Asset Management, including 70 million BP shares.
“It depends on what assets they sell. They might have a lower
production base, but with higher growth prospects.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
 Eduard Gismatullin   in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc, testifies to a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
