-- Bank of America Leads Sales of Structured Notes in What May Be Record Year
-- Zeke Faux
-- 2010-07-16T14:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bank-of-america-leads-sales-of-structured-notes-in-what-may-be-record-year.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. raised $4.7
billion selling structured notes to U.S. investors through June,
the most of any issuer and more than its 2009 total, as sales of
the securities rose to a record pace.  
 Banks have sold $22 billion of structured notes to
individual investors in the U.S. this year, according to data
from regulatory filings compiled by Bloomberg. Sales are on pace
to exceed what was a record $38 billion in 2008, according to
StructuredRetailProducts.com, a database used by the industry.  
 The securities are created by banks, which package their
own debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to investors
while also raising money. Last year, Bank of America sold $4.1
billion of the products, second to Barclays’ $4.5 billion in
sales, according to StructuredRetailProducts.com.  
 “Selling structured notes through brokers helps banks
reach an investor base they normally don’t touch,” said Kevin
Kelly, a trader at Phoenix-based hedge fund Tontine Capital,
which buys and sells the securities. “They like the business
because it’s a way to ramp up their volatility trading volume,”
he said, referring to derivatives whose value depends on
movements in stock prices.  
 Statistics on the industry are incomplete, because many of
the notes are sold in private placements that aren’t reported to
regulators. Definitions of the term “structured note” vary as
well, making comparisons imprecise.  
 Barclays Plc has sold $3.8 billion of notes this year, the
second-biggest total, and  Morgan Stanley  was third at $3.2
billion, the Bloomberg data show. Morgan Stanley has surpassed
its 2009 sales of $2.4 billion, and Barclays is on pace to
nearly double last year’s issuance of $4.5 billion, according to
StructuredRetailProducts.com. Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan
Stanley, declined to comment.  
 Army of Brokers  
 Bank of America acquired Merrill Lynch and its army of
about 15,000 brokers in 2009. Before the merger, Merrill Lynch
was the top issuer of structured notes, with $6.3 billion in
U.S. sales in 2008 according to StructuredRetailProducts.com.
 Selena Morris , a spokeswoman for the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based lender, declined to comment.  
 Firms market new products, such as structured notes, to
their own brokers as they would to outside firms, according to
 Charlie O’Flaherty , a former head of U.S. structured products at
Dutch bank ABN Amro Holding NV.  
 “If you’re going to be successful at inside sales in a
shop like Merrill, you have to be on the road educating brokers
and holding hands,” said O’Flaherty, who is now principal at
Third Reef Holdings, in a telephone interview on July 15.
“Brokers are hesitant to sell something they don’t
understand.”  
 Built-in Profits  
 Bank of America’s brokerage unit earned $89 million in
commissions selling the securities this year, with an average 2
percent fee, the Bloomberg data show. Banks also build a profit
for themselves into the price of structured notes, which is
generally not disclosed.  
 Sales fell 11 percent to $33.9 billion last year, according
to StructuredRetailProducts.com. That’s half the drop of U.S.
stock mutual funds, whose sales fell 22 percent according to
data compiled by the Investment Company Institute, a trade group
in Washington.  
 Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zeke Faux  in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        