-- Bank of Ghana Likely to Cut Benchmark Rate for Fourth Consecutive Meeting
-- Moses Dzawu
-- 2010-07-16T06:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bank-of-ghana-likely-to-cut-benchmark-rate-for-fourth-consecutive-meeting.html

          
          
             Ghana’s central bank will probably
reduce its benchmark interest rate today for the fourth
consecutive meeting, after the inflation rate fell below 10
percent for the first time in two-and-a-half years.  
 The key lending rate will fall 1 percentage point to 14
percent, according to two of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The others forecast reductions of 0.5 to 1.2 points
or declined to specify the size of the cut. The decision will be
announced in the capital, Accra, soon after 11 a.m.  
 “The June inflation reading paves way for an interest rate
cut,” Lisa Lewin, head of sub-Sahara Africa research at
Business Monitor International, said in an e-mailed comment.
Rising wages and electricity costs may limit that reduction to
half a percentage point, she said.  
 The inflation rate fell to 9.5 percent in June, the lowest
since December 2007, compared with a five-year high of 20.7
percent in June last year. Price growth slowed after Ghana’s
currency, the cedi, halted its decline against the dollar last
year. After falling 15 percent in the first six months of 2009,
the cedi has gained 3 percent over the past 12 months.  
 “The outlook on inflation is favorable and the cedi too
has been fairly stable the whole year,” said Collins Appiah,
head of research at Accra-based Gold Coast Securities, who
forecast a 1-point cut.  
 On March 31, central bank Governor  Kwesi Amissah-Arthur 
said inflation is likely to end the year between 9.2 and 9.5
percent.  
 Slowing inflation prompted Amissah-Arthur to make the
central bank’s first rate cut in almost three years in November,
lowering it by 0.5 percentage-point to 18 percent. A second cut
to 16 percent followed in February and a third to 15 percent in
April, in an attempt to get commercial banks to lower their own
lending rates.  
 On April 16, Amissah-Arthur said the average bank rate fell
0.6 percentage point to 32.1 percent following the February cut.  
 For Related News and Information:
On Ghana’s Economy: TNI GHANA ECO <GO>
On Ghanaian Inflation: TNI GHANA INF <GO>
Top Regional Stories: AFTO <GO>  
          
          


  


        