-- Bank of Ireland Says It Plans to Eliminate 750 Positions in Next Two Years
-- Joe Brennan
-- 2010-07-16T12:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bank-of-ireland-says-it-plans-to-eliminate-750-positions-in-next-two-years.html

          
          
             Bank of Ireland Plc  plans to
eliminate about 750 jobs over the next two years in the biggest
cost-cutting initiative since its government rescue last year.  
 The largest Irish lender by market value will reduce its
workforce by about 5 percent through voluntary layoffs, the
Dublin-based bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 Ireland’s government injected 3.5 billion euros
 ($4.6 billion) into the bank last year as bad debts surged
after the country’s decade-long property boom collapsed. The
European Commission yesterday approved the lender’s
restructuring plan, which includes disposing of New Ireland
Assurance, its life and pensions division, Bank of Ireland Asset
Management and ICS Building Society.  
 “This redundancy plan is the next logical step for the
group,” said analyst  Ciaran Callaghan  at Dublin-based NCB
Stockbrokers, who rates the shares a “buy.” “We cannot rule
out further job losses in the future and expect the other Irish
banks to follow suit over the near term.”  
 The bank said it will continue existing pay freezes until a
review in April. Another review is scheduled for December 2011,
it said.  
 Leaders of labor unions at the lender said they will meet
next week to prepare to “engage” with the bank’s management.  
 The Irish Bank Officials Association “will be scrutinizing
any specific proposals for job reductions with a view to
securing alternative arrangements,” Larry Broderick, general
secretary of the union, said in an e-mail statement. “It is
incumbent on senior management to learn the lessons from past
mistakes.”  
 The bank had 14,636 employees at the end of December,
according to its annual report. About 2,200 people have left the
lender since March 2008, mostly as a result of the company not
replacing employees as they left.  
 Bank of Ireland  was unchanged at 71 cents as of 12:51 p.m.
in Dublin, having traded as high as 74 cents.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        