-- Bank Swaps, Waning U.S. Consumer Confidence Push Credit-Risk Gauge Higher
-- Shannon Harrington
-- 2010-07-16T18:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bank-swaps-waning-u-s-consumer-confidence-push-credit-risk-gauge-higher.html

          
          
             A benchmark indicator of U.S.
corporate credit risk rose for the third time this week after
banks reported revenue that missed estimates and U.S. consumer
confidence slumped to the lowest in a year.  
 Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 4.1 basis points to a mid-price of 112 basis points as
of 2:02 p.m. in New York, according to Markit Group Ltd. The
index typically rises as investor confidence deteriorates.  
 Contracts protecting Bank of America’s bonds against
default climbed after second-quarter profit and revenue fell,
and Citigroup Inc. swaps gained after the bank forecast lower-
than-expected revenue. Consumer sentiment soured, heightening
the risk of an economic slowdown, as July’s Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary sentiment  index 
declined to 66.5, the lowest since August.  
 Philippe Graeub , a bond portfolio manager at Union Bancaire
Privée, said the drop in the consumer index from 76 in June was
“clearly a trend of weaker numbers, and that’s the worry for
the market.” On the earnings numbers, “the companies so far
are good at controlling costs and that’s the reason why they
beat expectations, but there are still worries about top-line
growth,” said Graeub, who oversees the equivalent of $3.8
billion at the Geneva-based firm.  
 Most Pessimistic  
 The confidence reading fell short of the most pessimistic
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey, whose median
prediction was 74. The report showed a record-low share of
Americans expect their incomes will rise in the next 12 months,
underscoring the lack of gains in employment.  
 Declining confidence may further restrain consumer
spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy and may
limit the speed of the recovery in coming months.  
 The cost to protect the bonds of Bank of America, the
largest U.S. lender, climbed 9.5 basis points to 145, according
to credit-default swaps broker Phoenix Partners Group. Second-
quarter revenue declined 11 percent, according to a statement
today from the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank.  
 Swaps on  Citigroup  added 8 basis points to 170, according
to data provider CMA data show, after the third-biggest U.S.
bank said  revenue  dropped 33 percent from the year-earlier
quarter, to $22.1 billion. Contracts on Morgan Stanley added 10
basis points to 218, and those on JPMorgan Chase & Co. climbed 5
basis points to 97.5, CMA data show.  
 Goldman Rises  
 Default swaps on Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased 12
basis points to a mid-price of 162, according to Phoenix prices.
Yesterday they dropped 20 basis points after the bank agreed to
settle fraud claims by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, ending the day at the lowest since April 29, Phoenix
data show.  
 Contracts on BP Plc fell after the company stopped the flow
of oil from its leaking Gulf of Mexico well for the first time
since the spill started in April. Five-year swaps lost 21 basis
points to 340 and those on one-year debt dropped to the lowest
since June 8, falling 46 basis points to 387, CMA data show.  
 The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings added 0.5 basis point to 116.8, and the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbed 8 basis
points to 535.3 basis points, Markit prices show.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying security if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        