-- Bank of America Slides as 2nd-Quarter Profit, Revenue Drop
-- David Mildenberg
-- 2010-07-16T13:09:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bank-of-america-net-income-beats-estimates-as-bad-loans-pressure-eases.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. , the largest
U.S. lender, fell 4 percent in early New York trading after the
company reported lower profit and revenue and said stock
buybacks aren’t imminent.  
 Second-quarter net income dropped 3 percent to $3.12
billion, or 28 cents a share before preferred dividends, from
$3.22 billion, or 33 cents, in the same period a year earlier,
according to a statement today from the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank. The average  estimate  of 24 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was 23 cents, adjusted for one-time items.
Revenue declined 11 percent.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 50, is
rebuilding the bank’s image with consumers, Congress and
regulators as he tries to reverse losses from credit cards and
home loans. The U.S.  jobless rate  is likely to remain high and
the company is “about half-way back” in its recovery from
credit losses, he said today.  
 “We’re in a period of muddling along with this economy and
it going to take a few more quarters for you to see sustained
activity,” Moynihan said in an interview on Bloomberg TV.
“We’re sort of in a state of moving through the muck, and yet
we’re moving in the right direction.”  
 Bank of America dropped 63 cents to $14.76 at 9:02 a.m. in
 New York. While JPMorgan Chase & Co.  has been repurchasing
shares, Moynihan said it will be several quarters before Bank of
America will do any buybacks.  
 Loan Provision  
 The bank earmarked $8.1 billion for credit losses, a 17
percent cut from 2010’s first quarter. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie
Dimon discounted his bank’s $1.5 billion gain from cutting loan-
loss reserves yesterday, saying it doesn’t represent “normal
ongoing earnings.”  
 Profit in Bank of America’s second quarter of 2009 included
a gain from  equity investments , mainly proceeds from the sale of
part of the lender’s stake in China Construction Bank.  
 Bank of America  slid  20 percent during the second quarter
on concern that another recession was imminent. The shares then
rebounded 7.1 percent since June 30 to close at $15.39 yesterday
on the New York Stock Exchange.  JPMorgan Chase , the company’s
biggest rival, gained 11 percent over the same span, and
yesterday the New York-based bank reported a 76 percent increase
in second-quarter profit.  
 Bank of America ranks first in the U.S. by deposits and
assets, and second among credit-card and housing lenders. While
the acquisition of Merrill Lynch last year bolstered the
company’s corporate and investment-banking operations, about
half of 2009 revenue was still tied to retail banking and
consumer loans.  
 New Regulations  
 Moynihan has overhauled risk management and simplified
statements, policies and overdraft fees that he said had bred
ill will and stuck some customers with a “$35 cup of coffee.”  
 At the same time, banks are trying to make up for costs
imposed by new regulations in the financial industry overhaul
passed by the U.S. Senate yesterday. The new rules may cut Bank
of America’s annual revenue by $1.9 billion, according to DBRS
Inc., the Toronto-based ratings firm.  
 The company is introducing a checking account on Aug. 6
that imposes an $8.95 monthly fee if the customer wants to use a
teller or receive a monthly statement through the mail.  
 Moynihan wants to change Bank of America’s image from “one
of the banks that American retail banking customers most love to
hate and most desire to leave,” analyst  Nancy Bush  of NAB
Research LLC said in a July 6 report. “We know that this issue
has the highest priority with bank management and its board.”  
 Fixed-Income  
 Revenue in fixed-income, currency and commodity trading
declined to $2.32 billion, according to a supplement
accompanying Bank of America’s earnings release, from a record
$5.52 billion in the first quarter and $2.68 billion in 2009’s
second quarter.  
 The bank’s card-services business swung to an $806 million
profit from a $1.59 billion loss a year earlier, the supplement
said. Overdue card loans fell in June to the lowest level since
September 2008.  
 Home loans and insurance reported a $1.5 billion loss,
compared with $726 million a year earlier, as defaults increased
and the value of mortgage servicing rights declined. Loan
originations increased 3.5 percent from the first quarter as
borrowers sought government tax credits that expired on June 30.  
 “It is hard to build a bull case for Bank of America when
the business is contracting at this rate, but this is typical
throughout the U.S. banking industry,”  Christopher Whalen  of
Institutional Risk Analytics, a Torrance, California-based
research firm, said in a report today. The U.S. economy is
“finding a new run-rate without the availability of excessive
credit,” he wrote, adding, “Get used to it. For those of you
who still believe in ‘normalized earnings,’ this is it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of America Corp chief executive officer Brian T. Moynihan. Photographer: Chris Keane/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Moynihan, chief executive officer of Bank of America Corp., discusses the company's second-quarter profit reported today. 
     The largest U.S. lender said net income dropped to $3.2 billion, or 28 cents a share before preferred dividends, from $3.22 billion, or 33 cents, in the same period a year earlier. Moynihan, speaking from Charlotte, North Carolina, talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Jeffery Harte, an analyst at Sandler O'Neill & Partners LP, discusses Bank of America Corp.'s second-quarter profit reported today and the outlook for bank earnings.
     Bank of America Corp., the largest U.S. lender, posted profit that beat estimates of most analysts as pressure from overdue loans abated. Harte talks with Deirdre Bolton and Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Peabody, analyst at Portales Partners LLC, talks about second-quarter earnings for Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the outlook for the second half of the year. 
     Peabody speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Buzzy Geduld, chief executive officer of Cougar Trading, discusses Bank of America Corp.'s second-quarter profit reported today.
     The largest U.S. lender said net income dropped to $3.2 billion, or 28 cents a share before preferred dividends, from $3.22 billion, or 33 cents, in the same period a year earlier. Geduld also discusses Research In Motion Ltd.'s Blackberry handset. He talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
