-- Bank of America, Citi Fall as Loan Books, Interest Shrink
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-07-16T15:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bank-of-america-citigroup-decline-as-loan-books-interest-income-shrink.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup
Inc.  fell in New York trading after profit reports showed their
loan books shrinking, a sign volatile markets and a stalling
U.S. economy may be keeping borrowers away.  
 Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
declined 8.3 percent, the most in more than a year, in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 11:33 a.m. New York-based
Citigroup  fell  3.7 percent.  
 Consumers and companies are balking at taking on more debt
amid Greece’s debt crisis and concern the U.S. economic rebound
will stall. While Citigroup and Bank of America have slashed
costs for bad loans, second-quarter revenue fell in business and
consumer lending, trading and underwriting.  
 “These companies are a good proxy for a sluggish
economy,”  David Ritter , an analyst at Argus Research, said in a
Bloomberg Radio interview. “Loan numbers continue to decline.”  
 Total loans at Bank of America, the largest U.S. lender,
fell 2 percent from the first quarter to $956.2 billion, pushing
down interest income 6.2 percent, the company said in a
 statement . At Citigroup, the nation’s third-biggest bank, loans
shrank 4 percent to $646 billion and interest income declined
3.6 percent.  
 “I don’t see a great deal of demand in the near term,”
Citigroup Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  said on a
conference call with reporters. Corporate borrowers are
“sitting on the sidelines” and “almost every major company”
has a “decent amount of cash sitting in their balance sheet,”
Gerspach said.  
 ‘Muddling Along’  
 Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian Moynihan  said
the economy is in a period of “muddling along.”  
 “It’s going to take a few more quarters for you to see
sustained activity,” Moynihan, 50, said in an interview today
on Bloomberg TV. “We’re sort of in a state of moving through
the muck, and yet we’re moving in the right direction.”  
 Moynihan and his counterpart at Citigroup,  Vikram Pandit ,
53, are rebuilding their banks’ image with consumers, Congress
and regulators and trying to reverse losses from credit cards
and home loans. They are also contending with financial
regulations approved this week by the U.S. Senate in the largest
rewrite of Wall Street rulemaking in seven decades.  
 A decline in the U.S.  jobless rate  to 9.5 percent in June
helped borrowers keep up with payments.  
 While  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  bought back about $500 million
of shares over the past month to return excess capital to
shareholders, Moynihan and Citigroup’s Gerspach said it will be
several quarters before the two companies can do any share
purchases.  
 Net Income  
 Bank of America’s second-quarter net income dropped to
$3.12 billion, or 28 cents a share before preferred dividends,
from $3.22 billion, or 33 cents, in the same period a year
earlier. The average  estimate  of 24 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 23 cents, adjusted for one-time items. Revenue
declined 11 percent to $29.15 billion from a year earlier.  
 Citigroup’s second-quarter net income was $2.73 billion,
down from $4.39 billion in the same period a year earlier, when
the company had a $6.7 billion gain from the sale of a stake in
Smith Barney. The per-share profit was 9 cents, Citigroup said
today in a statement, exceeding the 5-cent average estimate of
18 analysts in a  Bloomberg survey .  
 Citigroup beat the estimates because of lower-than-expected
costs for bad loans, including a $1.5 billion release from loss
reserves, Barclays Capital analyst  Jason Goldberg  wrote in a
report.  
 Asset Pool  
 Citigroup also got $599 million of mark-ups on loans and
securities in a “special asset pool” of trading positions left
over from before the credit crisis. Citigroup booked a $447
million gain from writing down the value of its own debt, under
an accounting rule that allows companies to profit when their
creditworthiness declines. The rules reflect the possibility
that a company could buy back its own liabilities at a discount,
which under traditional accounting methods would result in a
profit.  
 About $1.2 billion of Bank of America’s revenue came from
writing down the value of obligations assumed from its purchase
of Merrill Lynch & Co., according to the bank’s CFO,  Charles Noski .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Charles Peabody, analyst at Portales Partners LLC, talks about second-quarter earnings for Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. and the outlook for the second half of the year. 
     Peabody speaks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Marshall Front, chairman of Front Barnett Associates LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about bank earnings and the outlook for credit conditions.
     Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. fell in New York trading after profit reports showed their loan books shrinking, a sign volatile markets and a stalling U.S. economy may be keeping borrowers away. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Douglas Ciocca, managing director at Renaissance Financial Corp., talks about Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.'s second-quarter earnings. 
     Bank of America and Citigroup fell in New York trading after profit reports showed their loan books shrinking, a sign volatile markets and a stalling U.S. economy may be keeping borrowers away. Ciocca speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
