-- BIS Proposes Making Banks Hold Extra Capital to Protect Against Losses
-- Simon Clark
-- 2010-07-16T13:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bis-proposes-making-banks-hold-extra-capital-to-protect-against-losses.html

          
          
             The Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision proposed making banks hold more capital during
lending booms to protect against losses in future downturns.  
 National regulators would tell banks 12 months in advance
how much additional capital they would have to hold during times
of “excess credit growth,” the committee, which sets capital
standards for banks worldwide, said in a statement today. Banks
that fail to meet so-called extended capital buffers would be
limited from paying dividends to shareholders.  
 “It should be deployed when excess aggregate credit growth
is judged to be associated with a build-up of system-wide risk
to ensure the banking system has a buffer of capital to protect
it against future potential losses,” the committee, based at
the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, said in a
 consultation document  today.  
 The 36-year-old Basel committee of central bankers and
regulators was asked by the Group of 20 nations to draft new
rules after the worst financial crisis in 70 years caused firms
to write off $1.8 trillion. G-20 leaders urged the committee to
improve the quantity and quality of bank capital, strengthen
liquidity requirements and discourage excessive leverage. They
set a deadline of December for making the rules and originally
gave countries until the end of 2012 to implement them.  
 The committee proposed monitoring the ratio between credit
and gross domestic product as a basis to decide when capital
buffers need to be increased. “The credit-to-GDP ratio tends to
rise smoothly well above trend before the most serious
episodes,” the committee said.  
 Banks were asked to respond to the proposal by Sept. 10.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net 
 Simon Clark  in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        