-- Canada Stocks Fall as Gold Producers Drop on Euro; Financial Shares Slip
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-07-19T20:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bombardier-magindustries-may-move-canadian-equity-preview-for-july-19.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  fell for a second
day, led by gold producers and financial shares, as futures for
the precious metal dropped and a measure of U.S. homebuilders’
confidence fell more than forecast.  
 Goldcorp Inc., Canada’s second-largest producer, declined
1.2 percent as the metal sank to an eight-week low on a stronger
euro. Bombardier Inc., the world’s third-biggest civil-aircraft
maker, slid 6.5 percent as the company failed to announce any
orders for its new CSeries jet at the start of the Farnborough
International Airshow. Manulife Financial Corp., Canada’s
largest insurer, slumped 3.4 percent on an  analyst downgrade .  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  decreased 26.18
points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,543.47.  
 “Sentiment continues to be weak,” said  David Baskin ,
president of Baskin Financial Services Inc. in Toronto, which
manages C$350 million ($332 million). “There are lots of
contrary economic indicators out there. On any given day, you
can read people saying the apocalypse is around the corner.”  
 The S&P/TSX slipped less than 1 point last week as a week’s
worth of gains were wiped out on July 16. An index of U.S.
 consumer confidence  released that day fell more than all 62
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast, while Bank of America
Corp. reported drops in profit and revenue for the second
quarter.  
 The  S&P/TSX Gold Index  slumped to its lowest level since
April 26 as the metal lost 0.5 percent. The euro currency
climbed on speculation the release of European bank stress-test
results this week will ease concern that the region’s sovereign
debt crisis will worsen.  
 Sentiment Shifts  
 “People were very concerned about sovereign debt default
in Europe, and that sentiment seems to be less strong, so the
need for a fallback is reduced,” Baskin said.  
 Goldcorp fell  1.2 percent to C$41.95. Barrick Gold Corp.,
the world’s largest producer of the metal, dropped 1.3 percent
to C$43.41. Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd., which produces gold in
Quebec, declined 1.4 percent to C$58.32.  
 Financial shares retreated across North America after the
U.S. National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence index  decreased to its lowest level since April 2009.  
 Royal Bank of Canada, the country’s biggest bank, lost 0.9
percent to C$53.63. Bank of Nova Scotia, Canada’s third-largest
bank, slipped 1.4 percent to C$51.  
 Manulife , North America’s third-biggest insurance company,
slumped 3.4 percent to a 15-month low of C$14.79 after Toronto-
Dominion Bank analyst  Doug Young  cut his rating on the stock to
“hold” from “buy,” citing the impact of low interest rates.
Young had had a “buy” rating on Manulife since at least 2007.  
 ‘Hesitant’ Customers  
 Bombardier led the S&P/TSX with a 6.5 plunge to C$4.43. The
president of the company’s aerospace unit,  Guy Hachey , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview that many customers are hesitant
to make purchases before the economy recovers. The company is
targeting 50 percent of the market for jets carrying 110 to 130
passengers for its CSeries planes.  
 BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. gained 3.4 percent
to C$57.27 after receiving a “buy” rating in new coverage from
 Dushan Batrovic  of DundeeWealth Inc. In a note, Batrovic told
clients that the rapid growth of the smartphone market means RIM
will continue to increase sales even if it loses market share to
Apple Inc. and devices running Google Inc.’s Android operating
system.  
 Imax Corp., the maker of giant movie screen systems, rose
5.6 percent to C$13.96. The movie “Inception” grossed $7
million at 197 Imax theaters in its opening weekend, the best
ever for a two-dimensional film, according to Hollywood.com Box
Office.  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        