-- Brazil's Bovespa Stock Index Falls as Metals Decline, OGX Oil Well Fails
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-07-16T20:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bovespa-futures-fluctuate-as-inflation-offsets-economic-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index dropped
the most this month, completing a weekly decline, as confidence
in the U.S. economy diminished and falling commodities prices
pushed down producers.  
 OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA , the oil company owned
by billionaire  Eike Batista , fell the most in a week after
saying it drilled its first dry well. Iron-ore producers Vale SA
and Batista’s  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA  dropped for a third
session as metals prices retreated. Vivo Participacoes SA fell
the most in three weeks after a report said Portugal Telecom
SGPS SA’s board meeting ended without an agreement on the offer
expiring today for control of the wireless carrier.  
 The  Bovespa  slid 1.8 percent to 62,339.27 at the 4:15 p.m.
New York time close in Sao Paulo, for a weekly loss of 1.8
percent. Fifty-nine stocks fell on the measure while six rose.
The real weakened 1.1 percent to 1.7818 per dollar.  
 “We’re lacking good news that could reverse the undefined
trend in the market,” said  Emerson Lambrecht , director of
trading at Solidus Brokerage in Porto Alegre, Brazil, which
manages 1 billion reais ($563 million). “We had two or three
good U.S. earnings numbers that gave the market some relief, but
these other ones that came out bring more pessimism for
investors.”  
 Consumer Confidence  
 Stocks in the U.S., Brazil’s second-biggest trade partner,
tumbled today after a gauge of consumer confidence trailed
economists’ forecasts, extending early declines triggered by
lower-than-estimated revenue at General Electric Co., Bank of
America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.  
 Confidence among U.S. consumers slumped in July to the
lowest level in a year. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment decreased to
66.5, the lowest since August 2009, from 76 in June. The reading
was lower than the most pessimistic forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey with a median projection of 74.  
 Most Brazilian  stocks  fell yesterday after reports showed
economic expansion is slowing in China and the U.S.,
overshadowing a rally by homebuilders.  
 OGX fell 1.7 percent to 17.70 reais and earlier fell as
much as 3.8 percent, the most intraday since July 8. The company
said in a filing today that it drilled its first well that isn’t
commercially viable as it moved into more difficult waters in
the Santos Basin off Brazil’s coast.  
 Vivo Drops  
 OGX, which doesn’t yet produce any oil, previously
announced 14 successful wells in the nearby Campos Basin, where
Brazil produces more than 80 percent of its oil.  
 MMX slid 1.1 percent to 10.30 reais, the lowest price since
June 7, while Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer,
declined 1.1 percent to a two-month low of 37.52 reais.  
 Vivo lost 2.9 percent, the most since June 24, to 44.95
reais. Portugal Telecom’s board meeting ended without an
agreement on Telefonica SA’s 7.15 billion-euro ($9.2 billion)
offer to buy the Portuguese company’s stake in the joint venture
that controls Vivo, Diario Economico reported on its website,
without saying where it got the information. Telefonica’s offer
expires today.  
 The  Bovespa index  trades for 11.8 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.6 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.3
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 13.4 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        