-- BP May Saddle Asset Buyers With Suits as Claims Rise
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-07-16T16:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bp-may-saddle-asset-buyers-with-suits-as-claims-rise-toward-100-billion.html

          
          
             BP Plc  may saddle potential buyers
of its assets with lawsuits as Europe’s second-biggest oil
company tries to raise money to pay claims that may reach $100
billion from the Gulf of Mexico spill, lawyers said.  
 Apache Corp.  may agree to pay $10 billion to $11 billion in
cash next week for some of BP’s Alaskan assets, according to
people familiar with the deal.  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc  and Tullow Oil Plc have also said they may be
interested in buying some of BP’s properties.  
 Laws prohibiting fraudulent transfers could allow victims
to sue a buyer to recover money deemed essential to pay claims,
and successor liability could leave a purchaser with BP’s
obligations, if BP files for bankruptcy. A proposed change to
federal bankruptcy laws could force a buyer to wait for BP to
get approval from victims for the sale, or persuade a judge it
will have enough assets to pay claims in full.  
 “Any purchaser will worry about fraudulent transfer and
successor liability issues, and perhaps request part of the
purchase price be kept in escrow for such a contingency,”,”
said New York bankruptcy lawyer  Martin Bienenstock  of Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP in an e-mail.  
 BP said today it found no sign of an oil leak after
stopping the flow from its broken Macondo well yesterday for the
first time since an April 20 explosion at the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig killed 11 workers. The well had dumped as much as
60,000 barrels of oil a day into the Gulf, according to a U.S.
government-led panel of scientists.  
 Apache Falls  
 London-based BP rose 5.40 pence, or 1.34 percent, to 407.15
pence in London trading today. Apache fell $2.50, or 2.9
percent, to $83.63, as of noon in composite trading on the New
York Stock Exchange.  
 Last month BP agreed to deposit $20 billion in an
independent account to pay compensation to victims. BP said it
would sell $10 billion in assets to pay for damage from the
disaster, which has already cost the company more than $3.5
billion.  
 Louisiana Treasurer  John Kennedy  has said the total cost of
the oil spill may be as high as $100 billion. Oppenheimer & Co.
analyst  Fadel Gheit  last month put the financial damage from the
environmental catastrophe as high as $60 billion.  
 While BP could survive a $60 billion liability, “I am less
certain they can survive $100 billion or more,” Gheit said in a
phone interview.  
 BP generated $30 billion in cash flow in the last four
quarters and had $5 billion in available cash, another $5
billion in credit lines and $5 billion in standby loans as of
June 4, said spokesman  Toby Odone . BP has said it won’t file for
bankruptcy.  
 Potential Buyers  
 Odone declined to comment on whether potential asset buyers
or lenders had raised the issue of fraudulent transfer law or
proposed U.S. legislation on asset transfer.  
 Apache declined to comment through spokesman  Robert Dye .
 Alan Jeffers , an Exxon spokesman, wouldn’t comment on BP. “Any
asset purchase agreement has lots of complications that need to
be evaluated,” he said.  Wendel Broere , a Shell spokesman,
declined to comment.  
 Under current law, if BP were to declare bankruptcy, the
company could try to sell assets free and clear of liabilities
through a so-called 363 sale, as  General Motors Co.  and Chrysler
Group LLC did last year.  
 “If I were Exxon or Shell, I would try to buy BP’s assets
out of bankruptcy,” said  Nancy Rapoport , a bankruptcy law
professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “You get
clean title.”  
 Proposed Change  
 If the proposed change in the law, which has passed the
House, is enacted, a bankrupt BP couldn’t do a 363 sale. It
would instead have to get approval for the sale from spill
victims holding two-thirds of unpaid claims, or prove to a judge
it would have enough assets left to pay claims in full.  
 Credit-default swaps traders last month were pricing in
more than 40 percent odds that BP would default within the next
five years, according to data provider CMA.  
 The contracts, which rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves, have dropped the past two
weeks, falling 234 basis points since June 29 to 360 basis
points yesterday, CMA prices show. That implies the market has
priced in a 26 percent probability of default, assuming
bondholders would recover 40 percent of their investment.  
 “Other than bankruptcy, which BP will try to avoid like
the plague, there is no vehicle that will enable BP to clear the
decks and eliminate the cloud of liability hanging over it for
many years to come,” said Bienenstock, who advised GM on its
bankruptcy.  
 Sale Challenges  
 Even 363 sales can be challenged. Defunct Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. and its creditors are trying to recover an alleged
$11 billion “windfall” from Barclays Plc, which bought
Lehman’s brokerage in 2008. Barclays has denied wrongdoing.  
 “The buyer of BP assets will require a discount because of
the uncertainty,” said  John Tucker , a lawyer with Rhodes
Hieronymus Jones Tucker & Gable in Tulsa. “They have to make
certain they’re paying a justifiable price” or else a
bankruptcy court could reverse the deal in the future. Tucker’s
clients include  Thomas Kivisto , former chairman of bankrupt
SemGroup LP.  
 The risk of lawsuits is lower if BP hires investment
bankers to run a bidding process, recording bid prices that
showed the buyer paid a market-tested value for the asset, said
Bienenstock.  
 “Arm’s-length commercial deals are rarely set aside as
fraudulent transfers,” he said. “Courts don’t like to second
guess arm’s-length negotiations.”  
 Independent Appraiser  
 Apache might hire an independent appraiser to write an
opinion letter saying either that the price was reasonable, or
that BP was solvent, said  Stephen Lubben , a bankruptcy law
professor at Seton Hall University School of Law in Newark, New
Jersey. Apache’s purchase if completed will include half of BP’s
stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay oil field, the people familiar
with the deal said.  
 “Either defeats an element of a fraudulent transfer
action,” Lubben said. “Somebody could always challenge the
opinion letter, but it makes it much more costly for the
plaintiffs.”  
 Under some state laws, an oil spill victim could sue to
undo a BP sale that closed four years earlier, said  Lynn Lopucki , a law professor at the University of California, Los
Angeles. New York State law goes back six years, Lubben said.  
 BP sold $289 million of assets to  Magellan Midstream
Partners LP  in a deal that the companies began negotiating in
February. The sale includes oil storage tanks in Cushing,
Oklahoma, and pipelines that connect refineries in southern
Texas, including BP’s plant in Texas City.  
 Lukoil Sale  
 BP also sold its interest in Kazakhstan’s Tengiz oilfield
and the Caspian Pipeline Consortium to Moscow-based  OAO Lukoil 
for $1.6 billion in cash in December. Lukoil, which bought Getty
Petroleum Marketing Inc. in 2000, owns a network of U.S. filling
stations with Houston-based  ConocoPhillips .  
 BP needn’t be insolvent or in bankruptcy for a plaintiff to
sue a buyer of its properties under state law, Lopucki said.  
 “Tort victims could sue because the assets remaining to
pay them have been reduced” by the sale,” he said. “They
might argue the $20 billion fund is not enough.”  
 Even a foreign buyer of BP assets outside of the U.S. might
not be able to avoid U.S. law, Lopucki said. “As long as the
foreign buyer has assets in the U.S., U.S. courts would have
jurisdiction,” he said.  
 BP’s Odone said the company will wait until its next set of
results to decide whether to borrow more money to pay its spill
bills. BP is due to report  quarterly results  on July 27.  
 BP faces more than 300 lawsuits filed by fishermen,
property owners, restaurant operators, environmentalists, local
governments and its own employees. Most of the lawsuits have
been filed as class actions in federal courts in the five states
along the Gulf coast, Louisiana, Alabama, Texas, Mississippi and
Florida.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc, listens during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on the accident in the Gulf of Mexico involving the BP Deepwater Horizon rig in Washington, D.C. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Tony Hayward, chief executive officer of BP Plc, listens during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on the accident in the Gulf of Mexico involving the BP Deepwater Horizon rig in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) Jane Coffey, head of equities at Royal London Asset Management, talks about the outlook for BP Plc shares and the possible sale of assets.
     She talks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
