-- BP Says Gulf Well Pressure Rising, No Sign of Leak
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-16T16:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bp-says-gulf-well-pressure-is-still-rising-with-no-evidence-of-new-leaks.html

          
          
             BP Plc  is “encouraged” after a
pressure test that halted the flow from its Gulf of Mexico well
indicated no sign of an oil leak.  
 Pressure in the well built steadily to about 6,700 pounds
per square inch and is still rising, indicating no leakage from
the wellbore,  Kent Wells , BP’s senior vice president for
exploration and production, said on a conference call with
reporters today. Pressure of at least 8,000 pounds per square
inch is needed to confirm the integrity of the well, he said.  
 “We’ve had no negative information,” Wells said. While
the test, which began yesterday, hasn’t yet confirmed the well’s
integrity, “we’re encouraged by those results,” he said.  
 The disaster, the biggest oil spill in U.S. history,
followed an April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig. The well had been spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels
of oil a day, according to a U.S. government-led panel of
scientists.  
 “This is great news,” Darryl Bourgoyne, director of the
petroleum engineering laboratory at Louisiana State University
in Baton Rouge, said today in an e-mailed message. “Pressure of
6,700 pounds per square inch indicates that if there is any
leak, it is probably deeper than 4,500 feet (1,372 meters) below
the seafloor and won’t reach the ocean.”  
 BP rose as much as 6.2 percent in London trading, reaching
a five-week high, before closing at 4:35 p.m. up 5.4 pence to
407.15 pence.  
 ‘Made Progress’  
 President  Barack Obama  said a new cap BP put in place to
stop the flow shows “there’s no doubt we have made progress.”
Even if the cap isn’t able to prevent the leak for the long
term, it will allow the company to connect more oil-collecting
ships to the well to prevent crude from entering the Gulf, he
said.  
 “When the oil stops gushing, everyone feels like we’re
done, and we’re not,” Obama said today at the White House.
“The data is not all still in and it has to be interpreted by
the scientists.”  
 Final decisions on when the test is complete, and whether
BP can safely stop oil and gas from flowing into the Gulf, will
be made by National Incident Commander  Thad Allen , Wells said.  
 BP expects the test to last 48 hours. The company then will
run a seismic survey looking for any well leak, which will take
about 24 hours to analyze, Wells said.  
 Killing the Well  
 It “remains likely” that BP will have to reopen the flow
of oil from the well, Allen said in a statement yesterday. The
new cap gives the company the capacity to collect as much as
80,000 barrels of oil a day, more than the estimated flow rate,
until the well can be permanently plugged, he said.  
 “We won’t be done until we actually know we have killed
the well,” Obama said.  
 BP has resumed work on a relief well that will intercept
the leak and plug it with cement, permanently ending the risk of
further oil escaping, Wells said.  
 The relief well is within about five feet of the leaking
well and about 100 feet from the planned intercept point,
according to BP and Allen. The well may hit the leak this month
and permanently plug it by mid-August, BP said earlier this
week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama said the new cap BP put in place to stop the flow shows “there’s no doubt we have made progress.” Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
