-- BP's Sordid Behavior Deserves a U.S. Lockout: Edward D. Hess
-- Edward D. Hess
-- 2010-07-16T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bp-s-sordid-behavior-deserves-a-u-s-lockout-commentary-by-edward-d-hess.html

          
          
             Get too many traffic tickets or
drunk-driving convictions and your driver’s license is taken
away. Break the law repeatedly, and you suffer the consequences.
It’s that simple.  
 Should the same rules apply to corporations? For example,
if a company demonstrates a repeated inability to conform to a
country’s laws and to act in the interests of the greater good,
should the government revoke a company’s “license” to operate?  
 As BP Plc ’s well in the Gulf of Mexico gushes oil, feeding
the largest spill in U.S. history, this question becomes more
than just hypothetical once the company’s  record  of behavior is
taken into account. It is one that the U.S. government will have
to answer as it decides what to do about BP.  
 BP’s record is a sordid one. Dating to at least 2001, BP
has had safety and operational deficiencies at its Alaska,
California and Texas operations. In 2006, maintenance issues
with the company’s Alaska pipeline resulted in a 200,000-gallon
spill. In 2005, a blast at its Texas refinery caused 15 deaths.  
 Even though it had publicly announced it would overhaul its
safety processes in the U.S., BP was fined $87 million last year
by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration for
violations at that same Texas plant.  
 Other reports show that since 2007, BP has been cited by
OSHA more than 700 times for safety violations in its U.S.
refineries. Those violations occurred even though BP had agreed
to a five-year probationary plan following the Alaska spill so
that the Environmental Protection Agency wouldn’t revoke the
company’s contracts in Alaska.  
 Gulf Investigation  
 Investigations into the Gulf spill, including a
Congressional  panel , have highlighted other practices by BP,
including a repeated disregard of customary safety standards and
common procedures for deepwater drilling. Of course, there is
plenty of blame to go around. Lax enforcement of regulations has
also been a contributing factor. But BP seems to have known that
its well was a problem and made multiple judgments that valued
cost savings over risk management and safety.  
 So what now? After almost a decade of bad behavior, should
BP’s privilege to do business in the U.S. be revoked for a
period of time until the company demonstrates that it can be a
socially responsible business?  
 Corporate responsibility to society is a matter of endless
debate. Some would say that businesses, while needing to conform
to the letter of the law, have as their sole obligation the duty
to create  shareholder  value.  
 Capitalism’s Principles  
 Yet, the philosophical underpinnings of our capitalist
system don’t support that position. For example,  Adam Smith ’s
theory of capitalism was based on moral principles: self-
discipline, restraint, justice and fair play. Smith never
espoused the belief that the sole purpose of business is to
create shareholder value. Quite the contrary: Smith believed
that business is an integral part of society and thus is obliged
to act in accord with society’s general interests.  
 But what can nations do with companies that repeatedly
behave badly?  
 Arthur Andersen, once one of the most prestigious
accounting firms in the world, provides an important precedent.
For 80 years or more, Andersen was known for values-based client
service. But in the late 1990s things began to unravel. Between
1997 and 2002, the firm was forced to settle five major audit
failures to the tune of more than $500 million.  
 In a 2001 settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission concerning its actions in the case of Waste
Management Inc., Andersen agreed to a permanent SEC injunction
specifying that it wouldn’t violate civil anti-fraud rules. It
also agreed to pay the largest fine ever levied by the SEC
against a public accounting firm.  
 Leadership Choice  
 Yet, Andersen then installed one of the auditors censured
in the case into a leadership position involving standards and
document retention. What followed was Andersen’s indictment in
the Enron case for destroying records related to its audit work.  
 Judging by Andersen’s previous responses to government
sanctions and inquiries, the company wasn’t just making
mistakes. It seems that greed trumped values.  
 Although the U.S. Supreme Court reversed Andersen’s
criminal conviction in the Enron case, the indictment was
effectively a revocation by the government of its privilege to
do business. Andersen went out of business.  
 What kind of sanctions might encourage a company like BP to
straighten up? How about a fine that would make most companies
beg for forgiveness, say $1 billion? Well, BP had $239 billion
in  revenue  in 2009 so that likely wouldn’t work.  
 Biggest Market  
 One sanction that might make a difference is to cut off its
access to the  largest market  in the world -- the U.S. After
being barred from the U.S. for a few years, BP would have to
agree to a probationary period where it would have to prove that
it could be trusted.  
 Too harsh? Certainly the ramifications of such actions
would be extensive to thousands of innocent people, including
BP’s  employees  and contractors. But repeated bad corporate
behavior should have consequences. Business leaders must
understand that good financial metrics aren’t enough if those
results produce negative social costs.  
 Governments and their citizens must require businesses to
act as responsible members of society while they pursue  profits .
Wealth creation and virtuous, disciplined business behavior are
inextricably intertwined. That isn’t a liberal, socialistic, or
big government idea. It is at the heart of capitalism’s essence
and history. Now is the time to go back to the principled basics
of capitalism.  
 ( Edward D. Hess , author of “Smart Growth: Building an
Enduring Business by Managing the Risks of Growth,” is a
professor at the University of Virginia’s Darden School of
Business. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the author of this column:
Edward D. Hess at  HessE@darden.virginia.edu   
          
          


  


        