-- BP Advances After Halting Oil Flow From Gulf of Mexico Well for First Time
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-07-16T15:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bp-surges-after-halting-oil-flow-from-gulf-of-mexico-well-for-first-time.html

          
          
             BP Plc  rose in London trading after
the company stopped the flow of oil from its leaking Gulf of
Mexico well for the first time since the spill started in April.  
 BP closed 1.3 percent higher at 407.15 pence at 4:30 p.m.
in London after earlier gaining as much as 6.2 percent. The
stock is 34 percent higher than the 14-year low reached last
month following the blowout on the Deepwater Horizon rig on
April 20.  
 The producer is evaluating data from a pressure test it
began yesterday that will determine whether the oil well can
remain sealed.  BP  is drilling two relief wells to permanently
plug the leak at the same time.  
 “Even if no oil is released during the test, this will not
be an indication that oil and gas flow from the wellbore has
been permanently stopped,” the London-based company said in a
statement today.  
 The flow of oil was halted after BP shut off valves in a
cap bolted to the top of the Macondo well. The company said
today it is “encouraged” after a pressure test showed no sign
of a leak after the first 17 hours.  
 “While this is clearly good news, we caution that closing
the well is actually the start of the tests not the conclusion,
and BP needs to see pressure maintained,” said  Peter Hutton , a
London-based analyst at NCB Stockbrokers Ltd. He raised his
recommendation on the shares to “buy” from “hold.”  
 Confirmation that the well had been sealed sent BP’s  U.S.
shares  up as much as 10 percent in New York trading yesterday.  
 Reopen Well  
 National Incident Commander Thad Allen said yesterday in a
statement that it “remains likely” that BP will have to reopen
the flow of oil from the well and collect as much as 80,000
barrels of oil a day until the well can be permanently plugged.  
 The blast aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig killed
11 people and started the biggest oil spill in U.S. history. The
well has been spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels of oil a day,
according to a U.S. government-led panel of scientists.  
 Before the test, BP had been sending captured oil from the
well to the Helix Producer I platform and Q4000 rig at the
surface, where the oil and gas was separated, stored and burned
off.  
 Separately, BP may reach an agreement as soon as next week
to sell  assets  to Apache Corp. for $10 billion to $11 billion,
including half its stake in Alaska’s Prudhoe Bay field,
according to two people familiar with the matter yesterday.  
 The deal will probably be an all-cash transaction, said
one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations remain private.  
 The deal would accelerate BP’s plan to sell $10 billion of
assets over 12 months to fund compensation payments for damages
related to the oil spill.  
 -- Jim Polson  in New York and  Katarzyna Klimasinska  in
Houston. Editors:  Stephen Cunningham ,  Jonas Bergman .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Admiral Thad Allen, U.S. Coast Guard National Incident Commander. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) Jane Coffey, head of equities at Royal London Asset Management, talks about the outlook for BP Plc shares and the possible sale of assets.
     She talks with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
