-- BP Can't Rule Out Hidden Leaks in Pressure Test of Gulf Well, Allen Says
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-16T22:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/bp-well-pressure-readings-may-mean-reservoir-depletion-or-leak-allen-says.html

          
          
             BP Plc  can’t yet rule out that its
Macondo well has hidden leaks, a conclusion that would force the
company to reopen the well and resume capturing as much of the
flow as it can, National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said
today.  
 The pressure test that London-based  BP  started yesterday is
giving readings that are slowly rising from the 6,700 pounds per
square inch that the company reported earlier today, Allen said.  
 The company  will continue with the test for at least
another six hours, Allen said. While pressure below 7,500 pounds
may indicate that the well is leaking, the fact that the
pressure is rising might suggest well integrity, Allen said. The
test is aimed at determining whether BP can leave the well shut
before it’s permanently sealed next month.  
 The result so far is “good news, not great news,”  David Pursell , a financial analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. in
Houston, a former petroleum engineer who has conducted well
pressure tests. Allen’s technical team probably will base its
decision on the rate that the pressure increases during the
test, Pursell said.  
 BP temporarily stopped the flow from the Macondo gusher
yesterday for the first time in almost three months. The
company’s main goal in replacing the sealings at the top of
damaged well was to increase the amount of oil captured, Allen
said today.  
 Improved Collection  
 The new cap gives the company the ability to collect as
much as 80,000 barrels of oil a day, more than the estimated
flow rate. This compares with about 25,000 barrels of oil
captured with the previous system.  
 BP has resumed work on a relief well that will intercept
the leak and plug it with cement, permanently ending the risk of
further oil escaping,  Kent Wells , BP’s senior vice president for
exploration and production, said on a conference call with
reporters today.  
 The relief well is within about five feet of the leaking
well and about 100 feet from the planned intercept point,
according to BP and Allen. The well may hit the leak this month
and permanently plug it by mid-August, BP said earlier this
week.  
 The disaster, the biggest oil spill in U.S. history,
followed an April 20 explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig. The well had been spewing 35,000 to 60,000 barrels
of oil a day, according to a U.S. government-led panel of
scientists.  
 BP’s well manager, Donald Vidrine, is scheduled to testify
next week at investigative- panel hearings in Louisiana. The
Deepwater Horizon Joint Investigation issued an e-mailed
statement today with the witness lists. Witnesses will also
include staff from  Transocean Ltd.  and  Weatherford International
Ltd.   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net 
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        