-- Buffett-backed BYD Declines After Government's Illegal Land Use Accusation
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-16T06:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/buffett-backed-byd-declines-after-government-s-illegal-land-use-accusation.html

          
          
                  July 16 (Bloomberg) --  BYD Co ., the Chinese automaker
backed by billionaire  Warren Buffett , fell to its lowest in more
than ten months after the nation’s government said it will ask
local authorities to investigate alleged illegal land usage in
Shaanxi province.  
 The stock fell by as much as 5.7 percent to HK$51.05 in
Hong Kong trading, and changed hands at HK$51.15 at 2:36 p.m.
local time. The stock has lost 26 percent so far this year,
compared with a 7.5 percent decline in the  Hang Seng Index .  
 The  Ministry of Land and Resources  said in a statement
yesterday that BYD used land illegally in Shaanxi, and that it
will disclose findings from an investigation and possible
punishments by the end of September. Investor concerns over the
accusation are dragging down BYD’s shares today, said  Johnny Wong , a Hong Kong-based analyst with Yuanta Securities HK Co.  
 “Unfortunately there is not a lot of information to be had
in terms of what the infraction was and what the possible
penalty is,” said Wong. “Investors are just preparing for the
worst.”  
 BYD, the fastest-growing carmaker by sales in China last
year, increased sales in the nation by 3.3 percent in June from
a year earlier, lagging behind the 23 percent industrywide gain,
according to data from the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers .  
 ”We are handling the issue and we believe it won’t have any
impact on our production and operations,” Paul Lin, BYD’s
Shenzhen-based spokesman said yesterday by phone. He didn’t
immediately answer calls to his cell phone today when contacted
by Bloomberg News for additional comment.  
 Buffett ’s Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
holds a 10 percent stake in BYD. The Chinese company plans to
offer all-electric e6 hatchbacks in the U.S. this year,
following the domestic success of its gasoline-powered F3,
China’s best-selling car last year.  
 -- Tian Ying . Editors:  Kae Inoue ,  Ian Rowley .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        