-- `Supreme Court' Battle Begins Over Consumer Chief
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-16T19:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/business-prepares-for-supreme-court-battle-over-new-consumer-director.html

          
          
             The imminent reshaping of U.S.
banking regulation creates a new center of gravity in
Washington, a consumer chief with thousands of employees, a $400
million budget and power to impose federal rules on mortgages,
credit cards and layaway plans.  
 With the stakes high, business lobbyists who failed to kill
the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in Congress now
hope to influence President  Barack Obama ’s choice of director
and the Senate’s confirmation proceedings.  
 “This is akin to a Supreme Court nominee for financial
services,”  Richard Hunt , president of the Consumer Bankers
Association in Arlington, Virginia, said in an interview. “We
are taking this very seriously.”  
 Public and private conversations in Washington about the
job have centered on the likely candidacy of  Elizabeth Warren ,
chairman of the congressional panel overseeing the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, who is credited with conceiving the
consumer agency.  
 Warren’s criticism of Wall Street’s role in the financial
crisis has given her celebrity status among consumer groups.
Financial industry lobbyists and their political allies have
said that the Harvard University law professor’s activist
approach and lack of business experience are drawbacks.  
 “I don’t think there are 60 votes for Elizabeth Warren.
She’s burned a lot of bridges,” said  Mark Calabria , director of
financial regulation studies at the Cato Institute, a Washington
free-market policy group.  
 Oklahoma Roots  
 Warren, 61, grew up in a working-class Oklahoma household,
graduating from high school at 16 to attend George Washington
University and then the University of Houston. She received her
law degree from Rutgers and in 1992 joined the Harvard faculty,
where she teaches bankruptcy and contract law.  
 As chief watchdog of the government’s TARP spending, Warren
has clashed with banking and administration officials including
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . At a December hearing,
she accused Geithner of favoring Wall Street banks while
neglecting small businesses and homeowners. When Geithner said
the government bailout of insurer American International Group
Inc. was necessary to protect the financial system, Warren
interrupted to tout the benefits of bankruptcy.  
 “Mr. Secretary, I come from a world of Chapter 11. People
default all the time,” Warren said.  
 “You’re a national expert on this basic issue,” Geithner
said. “But banks are different. AIG is effectively a bank.”  
 ‘Driving Force’  
 Through a Treasury Department spokesman, Geithner today
called Warren a “driving force” behind creation of the new
consumer agency.  
 “Given her strong leadership on consumer protection,
Secretary Geithner believes that Elizabeth Warren is
exceptionally well-qualified to lead the new bureau,” spokesman
 Andrew Williams  said.  
 Consumer groups said they see Warren as the obvious choice
to run the new agency. Her vision and zeal put her at the head
of the pack of candidates, said  Ed Mierzwinski , consumer program
director at U.S. PIRG, a federation of state advocacy groups.  
 “Every bank in America set a goal of killing this agency.
We won and they lost,” Mierzwinski said. “Congress created its
skeleton. The first director will create its soul. We will not
be looking for a caretaker.”  
 Through a spokesman, Warren declined to comment.  
 Mandate to Police  
 With a mandate to police financial activity that is
“unfair, deceptive or abusive,” the new bureau may change the
way credit cards, mortgages and other products are designed and
sold. It has the power to investigate consumer complaints,
impose standards on contracts and give purchasers new rights to
sue. Industries within its reach include banks, mortgage
brokers, retailers, credit-card issuers, debt collectors,
credit-scoring companies and payday lenders.  
 “All of that power is in the hands of one person. It’s
going to be the closest approximation to a czar that Washington
has ever seen,” said  Joseph T. Lynyak , a law partner at Venable
LLP who represents financial services companies.  
 “It’s going to be surprising to an awful lot of
constituencies,” he said. “For the first time the jurisdiction
is not based on your charter or licensing but your activity or
product or service, which is a very broad way of capturing an
awful lot of folks.”  
 Hybrid  
 The structure of the bureau raises questions about the
extent of its power that may not be answered for years. It will
be born as an unusual hybrid -- an independent entity living
within another agency, the Federal Reserve. While the Fed has no
role in its rule-making, the law provides that the new Financial
Stability Oversight Council -- a nine-member panel of regulators
that includes the Fed chairman and the consumer czar -- can
override a consumer bureau action if two-thirds of the members
decide the rule threatens the safety or soundness of the
financial system.  
 Last year, Obama declared an independent agency to be a
centerpiece of the financial reform blueprint he sent to
Congress, prompting immediate opposition from industry. The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce produced advertisements featuring fictional
butchers, electricians and cabinet makers who said they would be
hurt by the agency’s authority.  
 Under pressure from Republicans, congressional Democrats
and the White House abandoned the idea of a separate agency and
agreed to house the consumer bureau inside the Fed, while giving
it autonomy from the central bank.  
 The Fed will do nothing more than “accept their mail for
them,” said House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts Democrat who was an architect of the
legislation.  
 Other Names  
 Warren is among those being considered for the job, White
House senior adviser  David Axelrod  told reporters today. “There
are other candidates as well,” he said.  
 Names circulating through industry and consumer groups
include Assistant Treasury Secretary  Michael Barr , Treasury
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Consumer Protection  Eric Stein ,
and  Gene Kimmelman , a former director of Consumers Union who is
chief counsel for competition policy at the Justice Department.  
 Others mentioned in connection with the post, including
 Ellen Seidman , executive vice president for Chicago-based
ShoreBank Corp., which specializes in housing and energy-
conservation loans, and  Nicolas Retsinas , director of Harvard
University’s Joint Center for Housing Studies in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, have said they don’t want the job.  
 FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair , Illinois Attorney General  Lisa Madigan  and Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley , all
put forth as potential candidates, have endorsed Warren, as has
Frank.  
 ‘Start With Her’  
 “All the conversations about who’s going to run it
naturally start with her,” said  Raj Date , a former managing
director at Deutsche Bank AG who now runs the Cambridge Winter
Center for Financial Institutions Policy, a New York-based
research group.  
 Banking lobbyists have raised concerns about Warren’s
preparedness for such a large role.  
 “The Congress has really delegated a great deal of
authority to this agency. That’s quite worrisome to the
community banks,” said  Steve Verdier , a lobbyist for the
Washington-based Independent Community Bankers of America.  
 While Warren “understands the difference” between
community banks and larger institutions, she remains “a
vigorous, vigorous consumer advocate,” Verdier said.  
 ‘Balanced Approach’  
 “We’re for somebody who takes a balanced approach to
ensuring that the consumer is protected in a fashion that allows
lenders to actually extend credit,” said  William Himpler , a
lobbyist for the  American Financial Services Association  in
Washington. “You’re talking about somebody who touches every
segment of consumer credit.”  
 The Senate approved the finance overhaul yesterday and sent
it to Obama, who said he would sign it into law next week.  
 The law instructs the bureau to merge staff members from
consumer units in seven agencies, including the Fed, Treasury,
Federal Trade Commission and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  
 Until a director is in place, the bureau will be managed by
the Treasury Department. Once established at the Fed, it will be
funded with 10 percent of the central bank’s operating budget in
its first year, rising to 12 percent by 2013, giving it start-up
funding of about $400 million. The Fed’s existing consumer
affairs division has a $26 million budget and about 114
employees.  
 During the congressional debate over the financial
overhaul, the Fed’s consumer protection staff came in for
withering criticism about its failure to protect borrowers
during the subprime mortgage boom. “Abysmal”, said Senator
 Jeff Merkley , a Democrat from Oregon.  
 Fed Expertise  
 Still, the new bureau should rely on the expertise of the
Fed’s staff, said  Patricia McCoy , a law professor at the
University of Connecticut and former Fed adviser. The problem in
the past, she said, was not that the staff missed warning signs
about the housing crisis. Rather, “they lacked the political
power to get the Board of Governors to act. They simply didn’t
have that power,” McCoy said.  
 Former Fed Vice Chairman  Alan Blinder , who had called for a
stand-alone consumer agency, said the Fed-based arrangement
could create an “unworkable” bureaucracy that could hobble the
effort.  
 “This is a political compromise between those who wanted
to have an independent agency and those who wanted to denigrate
the importance of the agency by putting it under the Fed,”
Blinder said in an interview. “You start out with a limp for no
good reason.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
   jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Elizabeth Warren, chairman of the Congressional Oversight Panel for the U.S. government's Troubled Asset Relief Program. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama makes a statement on the Senate's passage of a regulatory reform bill outside the White House in Washington. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
