-- Buy Dollar Thrifty Auto Options for 125% Return in Bidding War, MKM Says
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-16T20:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/buy-dollar-thrifty-auto-options-for-125-return-in-bidding-war-mkm-says.html

          
          
             Investors can still profit from a
potential bidding war for  Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. 
by buying bullish options on the rental-car company, MKM
Partners LP said.  
 MKM “has an even higher level of conviction about how
events will play out over the next several weeks” as  Hertz
Global Holdings Inc.  and  Avis Budget Group Inc.  compete to buy
the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based company, options strategist  Jim Strugger  wrote in a note today after meeting with Hertz
management yesterday. “The opportunity still exists to set up a
trade in August expiration that could return more than 125
percent.”  
 Strugger reiterated his June 23 recommendation to buy
August $45 calls on Dollar Thrifty. Buying August $45 calls
while selling August $50 calls, a strategy known as a call
spread that cuts the price of the trade while capping potential
profit, is another way to benefit from a competing bid from Avis
Budget, he said.  
 Dollar Thrifty said on July 6 that  shareholders  will be
given an Aug. 18 vote in a special meeting to decide on Hertz’s
$41 a share, or $1.3 billion, buyout offer.  Avis Budget  has said
it plans a “substantially higher offer” and has asked
creditors to amend a debt agreement that would enable the
company to borrow more money to finance a potential acquisition
of Dollar Thrifty, the Wall Street Journal reported on July 12.  
 Ticking Clock  
 “The scheduled vote set the clock ticking for Avis Budget
to prepare its own bid for Dollar Thrifty and that likely timing
would be between its earnings release, expected the first week
of August, and the voting date,” Strugger wrote.  
 If the stock price reaches $49 by the August expiration
after an Avis Budget counteroffer, then investors will earn the
$4 spread between buying the $45 calls and selling the $50 call
options. The maximum profit from this strategy would be $4 per
contract less the cost of the spread, which traded at about
$1.75 yesterday. This is equivalent to a return of 129 percent.  
 While selling  options  helps finance the transaction and
also caps profit, buying only $45 calls would not cap the
potential upside.  
 MKM’s event-driven strategist  Keith Moore  “expects Avis to
bid $47 to $48 a share for Dollar Thrifty and for the stock to
immediately trade through that level to $49 to $50 on an
expected counter-offer from Hertz,” Stamford, Connecticut-based
Strugger wrote. “Beyond that, the ultimate outcome is unclear,
but Keith believes the top bid could slightly exceed $50 a
share.”  
 Dollar Thrifty rose 0.4 percent to $46.22 at 4 p.m. in New
York. The shares have gained 80 percent this year. Hertz, based
in Park Ridge, New Jersey, decreased 5.4 percent to $10.03 today
while Avis, based in Parsippany, New Jersey, lost 5.9 percent to
$9.89.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        