-- California's Chiang Can Delay Schwarzenegger Minimum Wage Plan, Judge Says
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-07-16T21:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/california-controller-can-delay-schwarzenegger-s-pay-cut-order-judge-says.html

          
          
             California  Controller  John Chiang 
doesn’t have to comply with Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s
order to pay 200,000 state workers the minimum wage during the
state’s budget standoff, a judge ruled.  
 Sacramento County Judge Patrick Marlette said that Chiang,
a first-term Democrat, doesn’t need to immediately begin the
process of reprogramming payroll computers so the cut can take
effect before checks are issued for the Aug. 1 payday.
Schwarzenegger sought an injunction after Chiang refused to
comply pending an appeal of a previous court ruling that said he
had to follow the governor’s order.  
 Marlette said during a hearing today that the damage such a
pay cut would have on state workers outweighed Chiang’s
violation of the law by issuing paychecks without a budget that
authorizes such spending. In 2003, the state’s high court ruled
that California can withhold salaries during budget impasses as
long as it complies with federal law, which requires paying at
least the minimum wage, currently $7.25 an hour.  
 “We are pleased that the judge took into consideration our
arguments and looked at the impact the pay cut would have on
hundreds of thousands of state workers who worked for those
checks and expect full pay,” Hallye Jordan, a spokeswoman for
Chiang, told reporters outside the court.  
 Schwarzenegger, a Republican, issued the order on July 1
after lawmakers failed to send him a budget before the fiscal
year began that day. He and the Democrats who control the
Legislature are in a stalemate over whether to reduce spending
or raise taxes to close a $19.1 billion deficit.  
 Chiang’s Refusal  
 Chiang refused to follow the order, saying he would wait
until he’s exhausted an appeal of another court’s ruling that he
must follow a similar pay cut order from 2008. Chiang has argued
that the state’s 1970s-era payroll computer system isn’t
equipped to make such complex changes and that doing so would
violate federal labor laws requiring employees working overtime
to get paid full salary.  
 There will be another hearing in August in which the judge
wants to rule on the issue of whether the controller has to
comply with the 2003 ruling.  
 The pay cut order is seen by Democrats such as Assembly
Speaker  John Perez  as an attempt by Schwarzenegger to pressure
lawmakers to capitulate to his budget demands and on Democrat-
friendly labor unions to make concessions on pension costs.  
 “This is purely a negotiating tactic and one that I think
has little merit,” Perez, a Democrat from Los Angeles, told
reporters yesterday in his Sacramento office.  
 State’s Authority  
 Schwarzenegger’s press secretary,  Aaron McLear , has
rejected that notion and said the state doesn’t have the
authority to compensate its workers without a budget.  
 “The courts have been clear: In the absence of a state
budget or other available appropriation, the controller does not
have the authority to continue paying regular salaries and
wages,” McLear said in a statement July 6.  
 The 2008 pay cut order came at a time when finance
officials such as Chiang were concerned that they wouldn’t have
enough cash to pay bills. Schwarzenegger signed the budget Sept.
19 of that year, the latest in California’s history. This time,
Chiang has said the state has enough cash to pay bills through
September.  
 Some 37,000 state workers would be exempt from the wage
reduction because their unions struck deals with
Schwarzenegger’s administration to curb pension benefits as part
of new contracts. Included in the contracts is a guarantee that
they wouldn’t have their pay cut when there’s no budget. The
exemption requires legislation to take effect.  
 Democrats are pushing legislation that would guarantee
workers their full remuneration even when there’s no budget. The
legislation, which would need two-thirds approval, passed the
Assembly and is pending in the Senate.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento, California, at   mmarois@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Arnold Schwarzenegger, governor of California, speaks to the state assembly about his proposed budget in Sacramento, California. Photographer: Ken James/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
