-- Callaway, Rambus, Sony, Microsoft, BMG, Iowa State: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-16T11:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/callaway-rambus-sony-microsoft-bmg-iowa-state-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Callaway Golf Co.  and other
manufacturers of high-end golf equipment persuaded Chinese law
enforcement officials to raid warehouses where fake merchandise
was stored.  
 The sporting goods makers, operating as the U.S. Golf
Manufacturers Anti-Counterfeiting Working Group, said yesterday
that the Beijing Hadian District Court convicted five sellers of
fakes. The five were sentenced to jail terms of more than one
year and fined about $54,000, according to a  statement  from the
working group.  
 The seized products included more than 2,300 counterfeit
golf clubs and fake copies of authentic golf caps, bags and
accessories made by members of the working group.  
 In addition to Callaway, other members of the group are
Acushnet Co., Cleveland Golf/Srixon and Never Compromise, Nike
Golf, PING, TaylorMade-Adidas Gold and Ashworth, according to
the statement.  
 Re/Max Sues Orlando Realty Max for Trademark Infringement  
 Re/Max International Inc., a network of real estate
agencies, sued a Florida real estate broker for trademark
infringement.  
 Prism Enterprise of Central Florida Inc., which does
business as  Orlando RealtyMax  is accused of infringing Re/Max’s
trademarks through its use of a “confusingly similar name.  
 Prism’s use of the domain name “orlandorealtymax.com”
causes customers confusion, according to the complaint filed
July 13 in federal court in Orlando, Florida.  
 The Florida brokerage continued to use the domain name
after having been sent four letters by Re/Max beginning in July
2005, according to court papers.  
 Re/Max, of Greenwood Village, Colorado, claims the public
is deceived by Prism’s actions and is likely to believe
mistakenly that an affiliation exists between the two entities.
It says it suffered “irreparable harm, damage and injury” as a
result of Prism’s alleged infringement.  
 It asked the court to order Prism to quit using names that
are “confusingly similar” to Re/Max’s, and for an award of
money damages, including Prism’s profits attributable to the
alleged infringement. Additionally, it asked the damages be
tripled to punish Prism for what RE/Max says is willful
infringement, and for an award of attorney fees and litigation
costs.  
 Co-defendant with Prism is Shalendar Moman of Orlando, an
agent or employee of Prism, according to the complaint.  
 Re/Max is represented by  Gregory W. Herbert  of Miami’s
 Greenberg Traurig PA .  
 The case is Re/Max International LLC v. Prism Enterprises
of Central Florida Inc., 6:10-cv-01047, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Florida (Orlando).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 Patents  
 Rambus Gets 1,000th Patent, With 700 Pending Applications  
 Rambus Inc. , a chip designer that gets 95 percent of its
revenue from patent royalties, received its 1,000th patent, the
Los Altos, California-based company said in a  statement 
yesterday.  
 According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, 740 of those are U.S. patents, with the most recent --
7,755,968 -- issued July 13. That patent covers a chip with
dynamic memory bank count and page size, according to the
database.  
 The company’s patent portfolio covers high-performance
memory and serial solutions, package layout, system design, and
lighting and display technologies.  
 Rambus also has 700 pending patent applications, the
company said.  
 King Sues Novartis’s Sandoz to Block Generic Form of EpiPen  
 King Pharmaceuticals Inc.  sued  Novartis AG’s  Sandoz unit to
prevent sales of a lower-cost version of the EpiPen allergic-
reaction treatment until 2025.  
 Sandoz, the world’s second-biggest generic-drug maker, is
seeking U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval to sell a
generic version of EpiPen, according to the lawsuit filed in
federal court in New Jersey July 14. King wants a court to block
approval until a patent expires.  
 EpiPen Auto-Injector is an emergency treatment for people
suffering allergic reactions to insect stings or food, and is
used by the military for nerve-agent antidotes. King obtained
EpiPen as part of its 2003 purchase of Meridian Medical
Technologies. The unit that gets royalties and other revenue
from EpiPen reported  $252.6 million in sales  last year, King
said in its annual report.  
 Individual EpiPens sell for as much as $ 163.50 for a
single-dose injection  at various pharmacy websites.  
 As part of its FDA application, Sandoz said its version of
the device wouldn’t infringe the patent, or that the patent was
invalid or unenforceable, according to King’s complaint. An
official with Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment.  
 King, based in Bristol, Tennessee, already is suing  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. , the world’s biggest generic-drug
maker, over Teva’s plan to sell a generic EpiPen.  
 The case is King Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Sandoz Inc.,
10cv3568, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Sony Infringed Clark Rockefeller Picture, Photographer Claims  
 Sony Corp .’s Sony Pictures Television unit was sued for
copyright infringement by a Boston photographer.  
 The suit stems from a  photo  Donald A. Harney shot of Clark
Rockefeller and his daughter Reigh. Rockefeller, who was born
 Christian Karl Gerhartsreiter , was convicted of kidnapping his
daughter, and, according to court papers, Harney’s photo was
used by police and the FBI in their search for Rockefeller.  
 Harney  claims Sony’s made-for-television movie “Who is
Clark Rockefeller” used his photo to create the image of the
actors. The image Sony created for the movie “was clearly made
to look like Harney’s photograph,” according to the complaint
filed July 14 in federal court in Boston. The film was
distributed on A&E Television and is also available on the
website of one of its units, www.mylifetime.com, according to
court papers.  
 The image was used without authorization or compensation,
Harney said in his complaint. The “use, distribution and
publication” of the film constitutes copyright infringement, he
said in his pleadings.  
 Harney asked the court to order the seizure of all copies
of the film in any form, that the photograph be deleted from the
movie, and for an award of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  
 He is represented by  Andrew D. Epstein  of Boston’s  Barker,
Epstein & Loscocco .  
 The case is Harney v. Sony Pictures Television Inc., 1:10-
cv-11181, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  
 Microsoft Drops China Software Piracy Suit Against CITIC Kington  
 Microsoft Corp. , the world’s biggest software maker,
dropped an intellectual property lawsuit against a Chinese
company after the two sides reached an agreement on software
purchases.  
 Microsoft agreed to settle a lawsuit it filed against CITIC
Kington Securities at a court in the eastern city of Hangzhou,
the U.S. company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. CITIC
Kington will buy 3.23 million yuan ($477,000) of Microsoft
software as part of the settlement, it said.  
 The maker of the Windows operating system is stepping up
action against Chinese companies for unlicensed software use.
Microsoft is losing billions of dollars to software piracy in
the world’s third-biggest economy, Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said in May.  
 Microsoft said in April it won a decision from a court in
Shanghai against a Chinese insurance company for intellectual
property infringement. Last year, four people were sentenced to
prison terms for distributing pirated Microsoft products.  
 BMG Acquires Rights to Aerosmith, ZZ Top, David Essex Songs  
 BMG Rights Management GmbH, the music-rights venture owned
by  Bertelsmann AG  and  KKR & Co. , agreed to buy independent music
publisher Stage Three Music, the companies said in a statement.  
 Stage Three holds the rights to classic songs and writers,
including songs performed by Aerosmith,  David Essex , ZZ Top and
 Macy Gray , according to the company’s  website . BMG said it was
acquiring those rights from Stage Three shareholders Apax
Partners, Ingenious Ventures and company management. Terms of
the deal weren’t disclosed.  
 Competition is increasing for music publishing catalogs and
the income the lyrics and melodies generate from stores, radio
and Internet play, ads and movies.  
 Unlike recorded music, publishing is buffered from falling
CD sales by its more diverse revenue sources. Owners can earn
cash returns of 7 to more than 20 percent a year, depending on
the songs and how they’re marketed, investors and dealmakers
said.  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 University Technology Transfer  
 Iowa State Spins off Avello With University-Developed Technology  
 Avello Bionergy Inc. , a company aimed at seeking new fuel
sources, has been spun off from research at Iowa State
University, the school said in a  statement .  
 The company, based at the university’s BioCentury Research
Farm near Ames, Iowa, is based on technology developed by
Professor Robert C. Brown of the school of engineering and
director of the school’s Bioeconomy Institute and his students.  
 They use a technology known as “fast pyrolysis,” which is
involved in heating biomass such as corn stalks and leaves in
the absence of oxygen.  
 This produces a liquid known as bio-oil that can be used to
manufacture fuels, chemicals and a solid product that can be
used to enrich soil and remove green house gases from the
atmosphere. According to the school, a patent application has
been filed for the technology.  
 Avello received early stage funding from a Des Moines,
Iowa-based venture firm, according to the company  website .  
 In addition to fuel products,  Avello produces Bio-asphalt ,
a product that can be used to replace petroleum-based liquid
asphalt for roofing and paving applications.  
 IP Moves  
 Bracewell & Giuliani Hires IP Lawyer for New Seattle Office  
 Bracewell & Giuliani LLP  hired Christopher Schenck for its
new Seattle office, the Houston-based firm said in a  statement .  
 Schenck , who previously practiced at Seattle’s  Riddell
Williams PS , will do patent-litigation work at the firm. He will
be representing clients in the software and semiconductor
industries.  
 He has an undergraduate degree in computer science from the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a law degree
from Georgetown University.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        