-- Canada to Spend $8.5 Billion to Buy 65 Lockheed Martin F-35 Fighter Jets
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-07-16T18:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/canada-to-spend-8-5-billion-to-buy-65-lockheed-martin-f-35-fighter-jets.html

          
          
             Canada’s Defence Minister  Peter MacKay  said the country will spend about C$9 billion ($8.5
billion) to buy 65 F-35  Joint Strike Fighter  jets from  Lockheed
Martin Corp. , giving a lift to a program that has faced delays
and rising costs.  
 Delivery is expected to begin in 2016, according to  a
statement  posted today on Canada’s National Defence website. The
contract includes “associated weapons, infrastructure, initial
spares, training simulators, contingency funds and project
operating costs,” the document said.  
 The fighter program is four years behind schedule on key
milestones, including completing the development phase, combat
testing and beginning full-scale production. Its costs are also
growing. Canada is the first foreign partner to announce
purchase of production aircraft.  
 Canada’s decision is a “major plus for the program,”
 Richard Aboulafia , an aerospace analyst at Teal Group in
Fairfax, Virginia, said in an e-mail. “It provides a respected
endorsement and very useful production numbers.”  
 The fighter purchase is part of  Canada’s efforts  to replace
its aging military equipment. Six of the military’s core fleets,
including destroyers, frigates, maritime patrol aircraft, fixed-
wing and rescue aircraft, fighter aircraft and land combat
vehicles, will need to be replaced over the next 20 years.  
 ‘The Best Aircraft’  
 “The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter is the best aircraft we can
provide our men and women in uniform,” MacKay said in Ottawa
today. The plane “will help the Canadian Forces defend the
sovereignty of Canadian airspace, remain a strong and reliable
partner in the defense of North America, and provide Canada with
an effective and modern capability for international
operations.”  
 The ruling Conservative Party says the contract will
benefit the country’s C$17.5 billion aerospace industry, the
world’s  fifth biggest  in 2007. Industry Minister  Tony Clement 
told reporters the purchase will support the Canadian economy by
giving Canadian companies a chance to bid on more than C$12
billion in F-35 related contracts.  
 “These Canadian companies will not only contribute to
their bottom line in the short term, they set in motion
opportunities indeed for decades to come,” he said.  
 The purchase comes over objections from Canada’s three
opposition parties. The Conservatives hold a  minority of seats 
in Parliament, meaning they must get support from at least one
opposition party to pass budgets and avoid getting toppled.  
 Political Opposition  
 Marc Garneau  of the Liberal Party said yesterday his party
would stop the purchase should they come into power in the
future. The New Democratic Party said in a statement that the
decision to buy the planes lacked transparency and that the
ruling Conservative Party didn’t consult with the opposition.  
 Claude Bachand, the Bloc Quebecois’ defense spokesman, said
that while the government should have held a bidding process,
his party will focus on ensuring that Quebec companies like  CAE
Inc. , Pratt & Whitney Canada and  Heroux-Devtek Inc.  get their
fair share of the contracts.  
 Quebec companies “are all pleased about the project, they
already have contacts with Lockheed Martin, and so we say it’s
important that the maintenance contract be given to those
companies,” Bachand said, adding that he estimates that
maintenance will add another C$7 billion to the cost of the
plane.  
 Maintenance Costs  
 Public Works Minister  Rona Ambrose  said today that the
maintenance contract will be negotiated “at the time we
acquire” the planes.  
 Canada has invested C$168 million in the Joint Strike
Fighter  program , allowing it to buy aircraft and to have
domestic firms win contracts. Canadian companies have  received 
contracts valued at more than C$350 million from the program to
date, according to Industry Canada.  
 The projected cost of the program is now $382.4 billion, 65
percent higher than the $232 billion estimated when the program
started in 2002, according to U.S. Defense Department figures
released last month, making it the most expensive U.S. weapons
program. Lockheed Chief Executive Officer  Robert Stevens  said
last month that the company is negotiating orders at a price 20
percent lower than the U.S. official estimate.  
 The delays and cost growth are the consequence of a major
wing redesign, inefficient production, testing problems and slow
deliveries from suppliers, according to findings by Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed Martin, congressional auditors and
Pentagon officials.  
 Rising Price  
 The Pentagon’s  cost-analysis office  reports that the price
per plane -- including research, development and construction
costs -- is now $112.4 million, about 81 percent more than the
original estimate of $62 million. The production cost alone of
each plane is estimated at $92.3 million, almost 85 percent
higher than the $50 million projected when the program began in
2002, the Pentagon told Congress. Lockheed has disputed the cost
estimate.  
 Those estimates are higher than that of the program office
or Lockheed Martin because it’s based heavily on historical data
from other aircraft programs such as the Boeing F-18 and
Lockheed Martin F-22.  
 Asked about the per-plane cost for Canada, which works out
to about C$138 million, MacKay said that total also includes
weapons and other systems. Ambrose said Canada is getting an 8
percent discount on the jets for being a partner in the project.  
 Lockheed Martin  fell $1.73, or 2.3 percent, to $74.22 at
2:16 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Peter MacKay  
                       
                         
                           Jonathan Hayward/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Canada's Defence Minister Peter MacKay speaks with members of the media outside the House of Commons Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Canada's Defence Minister Peter MacKay speaks with members of the media outside the House of Commons Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Photographer: Jonathan Hayward/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
