-- Canadian Dollar Weakens for Third Day on U.S. Economic Slowdown Concern
-- Chris Fournier
-- 2010-07-16T20:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/canadian-dollar-weakens-for-third-day-on-u-s-economic-slowdown-concern.html

          
          
             Canada’s dollar weakened the most
this month versus the greenback and the yen as evidence of a
slowing U.S. economic recovery made the currencies of countries
reliant on commodity exports less attractive.  
 Canada’s currency loss 2.2 percent this week versus its
U.S. counterpart. Analysts forecast Bank of Canada policy makers
will raise interest rates for a second time in two months on
July 20, while the U.S. is expected to keep borrowing costs at a
record low this year as growth wanes.  
 “Global factors could continue to have a negative
impact,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
National Bank of Canada, said by phone from Toronto. An interest
rate rise at the July 20 meeting is “a foregone conclusion. And
it’s fully priced into the currency. The accompanying statement
will have a negative impact if it’s dovish.”  
 The currency, nicknamed the loonie after the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, slid 1.7 percent, the most since
June 29, and traded at C$1.0567 per U.S. dollar at 4:37 p.m. in
Toronto, from C$1.0383 yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 94.63
U.S. cents.  
 The loonie fell 1.6 percent to C$1.3649 versus the euro. It
capped its largest three-day loss since May against the Japanese
currency, falling 4.8 percent to 81.99 yen.  
 “The market has been taking back its long dollars and
taking back its short euro,” said Spitz, meaning covering bets
that the euro would fall and the greenback would rise. “If euro
continues to be short covered, then euro-Canada is likely to go
higher, which will mean a sell of Canada,” he said.  
 Economic Outlooks  
 Confidence among U.S. consumers slumped in July to the
lowest level in a year, signaling the biggest part of the
economy is losing momentum. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment fell to 66.5 in
July from 76 a month earlier. The gauge was projected to fall to
74, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of 62 economists.  
 Canada’s  index  of leading economic indicators advanced for
a 13th straight month in June, on growth in manufacturing and
the money supply. The index rose 1 percent in June, and Ottawa-
based Statistics Canada today also increased the estimated gains
for the previous two months to 1.1 percent from 0.9 percent.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News said the index would rise
0.7 percent, based on the median of 11 estimates.  
 The loonie depreciated this week against all its 16 most-
traded counterparts as reports indicating a slowdown in American
manufacturing underscored the Federal Reserve’s lowered
forecasts for economic growth and inflation.  
 ‘Favorite Trades’  
 “One of the market’s favorite trades was short euro, long
commodity currencies,”  Steve Butler , director of foreign-
exchange trading in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit, said in an e-mail. “With the change in sentiment
from euro-zone sovereign woes to U.S. deflation concerns,
there’s been massive short covering going through this week.”  
 Crude oil for August delivery fell as much as 1.8 percent
today to $75.25 a barrel in New York, the third straight drop.
Oil is Canada’s largest export.  
 The 10-year note’s  yield  fell 8 basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3.16 percent. The 3.5 percent security
maturing in June 2020 rose 64 cents to C$102.90 per C$1,000 face
value.  
 Canada’s government bonds have lost investors 0.4 percent
this month, according Bloomberg data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        