-- CapitaMalls Malaysia Trust Declines in Trading Debut on Economic Outlook
-- Chan Tien Hin
-- 2010-07-16T09:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/capitamalls-malaysia-trust-declines-in-trading-debut-on-economic-outlook.html

          
          
             CapitaLand Ltd.’s  Malaysian property
trust fell on its first day of trading on concern slowing growth
will depress rents at its three malls in Southeast Asia’s third-
largest economy.  
 CapitaMalls Malaysia Trust , the nation’s second-biggest
property trust, raised 852 million ringgit ($266 million) last
week. The stock dropped 2 percent to close at 98 sen, from the 1
ringgit price for shares to institutional investors. Individual
investors paid 98 sen apiece.  
 Eight out of 13 companies that went public on the Kuala
Lumpur stock exchange this year before today’s debut are trading
below their offer prices, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Since
CapitaMall’s pricing, the government raised interest rates, the
government cut fuel and sugar subsidies, as the Malaysian
Institute of Economic Research said the nation’s economic growth
will slow in the second half.  
 “The market is generally not very excited right now,
because the expectations on the outlook is not really that
great,” said  Scott Lim , chief executive officer of MIDF Amanah
Asset Management Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur, which manages the
equivalent of $670 million. “There could be a significant
correction in the second half of the year.”  
 CapitaMalls joins a growing list of companies that
underperformed in their trading debuts, signaling concerns risk
appetite for equities is waning.  
 Sunway, Agricultural Bank  
 Sunway Real Estate Investment Trust , the nation’s biggest
property trust, fell 1.7 percent on its first day of trading on
July 8 and is still trading below its offer price. Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd., the country’s largest bank by customers,
rose 0.8 percent on its debut in Shanghai yesterday, the
smallest first-day gain among the nine lenders that have sold
shares in the city in the past four years.  
 Singapore-based  CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. , owner of shopping
malls in the region, last week priced shares of the Malaysian
unit at the low end of its projected range ahead of today’s
trading. CapitaMalls Asia is a unit of CapitaLand, Southeast
Asia’s biggest developer.  
 For CapitaMalls Malaysia, “the business environment is
expected to be challenging with stiff competition from other
shopping malls,” PM Securities Sdn. said in a report today. The
stock’s fair value is 95.5 sen, it said.  
 Lower Dividend Yield  
 OSK Research Sdn. analyst  Mervin Chow Yan Hoong  said in a
report on July 14 that the dividend yield of 7.5 percent is
“well below” the average 8.5 percent of other Malaysian REITs,
he said.  
 “We expect some retail investors who may not understand
the REIT market to trade a little bit day one,”  Lim Beng Chee ,
chief executive officer of CapitaMalls Asia, told reporters in
Kuala Lumpur today. “But my sense is that it will pick up over
time.”  
 CapitaMalls Asia  plans to set up a 1 billion ringgit fund
within a year to build and prepare a pipeline of assets for the
Malaysian property trust, he said.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., and
Maybank Investment Bank Bhd. jointly managed the sale.  
CapitaMalls Asia  is part of CapitaLand Ltd., Southeast Asia’s
biggest developer, which owns shopping malls in China, India and
Singapore. CapitaMalls Malaysia is the owner of the Sungei Wang
Mall in Kuala Lumpur, The Mines mall, which is south of the city
center, and Gurney Plaza in Penang, according to the company’s
prospectus.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        