-- Carlyle-TPG Consortium, KKR Said to Plan Final Bids for Healthscope Today
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-07-16T03:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/carlyle-tpg-group-kkr-said-to-plan-rival-offers-for-healthscope-today.html

          
          
             KKR & Co.  and a rival private-equity
group that includes Carlyle Group and TPG Capital plan to submit
final offers for Australian hospital owner  Healthscope Ltd. 
today, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  
 KKR, bidding alone, has about 12 lenders backing its offer,
one of the people said, declining to be identified because the
plans are private. Bids for Australia’s second-biggest hospital
owner are due by 5 p.m. today, another person said.  
 Healthscope, which runs the Prince of Wales Private
Hospital in east Sydney, last month allowed bidders access to
its accounts after receiving competing A$1.8 billion ($1.6
billion) proposals.  Blackstone Group LP  pulled out of the
Carlyle bidding group because it couldn’t agree on pricing,
Reuters reported yesterday.  
 Carlyle’s group in May offered A$5.75 for each Healthscope
share, valuing the company at A$1.82 billion, people familiar
with the process have said. KKR was the suitor behind a A$5.80
per-share approach later that month, another person familiar
with the matter said.  
 Healthscope  fell for a second day in Sydney trading, losing
1.1 percent to A$5.35 at 12:34 p.m. local time. The stock has
climbed 5.3 percent this year.  
 Ian Smith, a KKR spokesman in Adelaide, declined to comment,
as did  Dorothy Lee  at Carlyle in Hong Kong. A call to TPG’s
office in Melbourne wasn’t returned.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone
spokesman in New York, didn’t reply to an e-mail after working
hours. Kate Inverarity, an external spokeswoman for Healthscope,
declined to comment.  
 Scarce Credit  
 The reported withdrawal by Blackstone came amid concerns
about the cost and availability of debt to fund a Healthscope
takeover.  
 The  Australian Private Equity & Venture Capital Association
Ltd.  in June said a recovery in Australian buyouts may be
hampered as private-equity firms grapple with scarce credit.
Banks were unwilling to extend more than A$1 billion for a
leveraged buyout even when lending in groups, Avcal said.  
 Tenet Healthcare Corp. of the U.S. in June scrapped a
preliminary bid for the Australian healthcare provider.
Healthscope disclosed the offers but not names of the bidders.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        