-- Chile to Lure Investors With `Revolutionary' Fund Management Rule Overhaul
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-07-16T18:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/chile-unifies-fund-taxes-to-lure-capital-markets-investment-larrain-says.html

          
          
             Chile plans a “revolutionary”
overhaul of fund management legislation aimed at boosting
domestic savings by cutting costs and increasing competition,
Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  said.  
 A bill to be sent to Congress next year will combine
Chile’s existing patchwork of rules on mutual funds, closed-end
investment funds and venture capital, ending regulatory
arbitrage, Larrain said in a  speech  in New York last night.
Funds in Chile manage about $42 billion, Larrain told reporters
today after ringing the New York Stock Exchange’s opening bell.
The changes will increase that “significantly,” he said.  
 “This particular issue -- capital market reform -- will be
one of the important elements in the economic policy of the
current administration,” Larrain, appointed by President
 Sebastian Pinera  who took office in March, said in an interview
at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York yesterday.  
 The government plans to sell its first peso-denominated
global bonds later this year as it seeks to integrate capital
markets with the rest of the world. The proposed fund overhaul,
described in a ministerial statement as “revolutionary,” is
part of the government’s planned measures to increase financial
market access for individuals and companies. Others include
integrating exchanges and developing a high-yield bond market.  
 Best Performer  
 Chile’s main stock index is Latin America’s best performer
this year as the economy rebounds from last year’s slump and
February’s earthquake. The  Ipsa  index rose 0.2 percent to a
record 4,221.61 yesterday, extending this year’s gain to 18
percent. Trading is closed today for a public holiday.  
 The central bank raised its benchmark interest rate for the
second straight month yesterday after the fastest growth in
almost five years pushes inflation back up toward policy makers’
target. The economy grew 7.1 percent in May from a year earlier
and industrial output rose for the first time since the Feb. 27
quake caused as much as $30 billion of damage. The planned bond
sales will form part of financing for repairs. Chile hasn’t sold
international bonds in six years.  
 Investor demand exists for any international bond sale by
the government “in the next few months” after the nation’s
borrowing costs fell, Larrain, 52, said.  
 “I am not concerned about the market if we go in the next
few months,” he said. “At the moment we go, if we go, the
markets will be able to make their judgment and their judgment
will be very positive.”  
 Bond Sale  
 While Larrain wouldn’t give details on the timing or makeup
of any debt offering, he said in April the government plans to
sell $1.5 billion worth of 10-year bonds abroad this year in
dollars and pesos. Chile plans to sell $1 billion of the
securities in dollars and $500 million in pesos, he told
reporters in New York at the time.  
 The cost of protecting Chilean debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps plunged to 90 basis points,
or 0.9 percentage point, from an 11-month high of 112 on June 9,
according to CMA Datavision Inc. in New York. The extra yield
investors demand to hold the government’s dollar bonds over U.S.
Treasuries sank to 135 basis points from 167 over the same
period, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global index .  
 “We have announced our intention to issue bonds, but I
cannot comment any further on that,” he said yesterday.  
 Moody’s Investors Service raised its rating on Chile’s debt
to Aa3, the highest in the region, on June 16, citing the
country’s fiscal savings and “financial resilience” in the
wake of the earthquake.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 Chilean credit-default swaps traded at about 75 basis
points the day before the quake. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent should a government or company fail to
adhere to its debt agreements.  
 One of the factors influencing the government’s decision on
financing sources is concern over the exchange rate, Larrain
said. Chile is interested in making the peso internationally
convertible and meeting investors’ increased demand for local-
currency assets without hurting the nation’s economy, he said.
Chile is the world’s largest copper producer.  
 “We are concerned about the macroeconomic effects of any
type of financing,” Larrain said. “We need a competitive
exchange rate, particularly for small businesses in our country,
and that message has been very clearly stated.”  
 The peso, the worst-performing major Latin American
currency in the past six months with a decline of 7.7 percent
against the dollar, is up 1.7 percent in the past five days. It
gained 0.5 percent to 530.05 per dollar at 11:17 a.m. today.  
 Chile is the region’s highest-rated borrower after it
became a net creditor in 2007 for the first time by paying down
debt and hoarding savings in an offshore wealth fund. Larrain
said the government is considering bond sales even though
Moody’s said the country’s $11 billion in offshore copper
savings would be more than enough to cover its $8.4 billion in
financing needs following the quake.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net ;
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Felipe Larrain, Chile's finance minister, smiles during an interview in New York. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
