-- China Interest-Rate Swaps Decline to One-Year Low on Slower Growth Outlook
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-16T09:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/china-interest-rate-swaps-decline-to-one-year-low-on-slower-growth-outlook.html

          
          
             China’s  interest-rate swaps  dropped
to a one-year low as a slowdown in economic growth prompted
investors to speculate policy makers will favor borrowing costs
that support the recovery.  
 Gross domestic product  grew 10.3 percent in the second
quarter, compared with an 11.9 percent gain in the previous
three months, the statistics bureau said yesterday. The central
bank yesterday allowed the  yield  on three-year bills to drop
three basis points to 2.65 percent at an auction, the first
decline in six weeks.  
 “The figures missed people’s estimates, causing concern
among investors who were previously optimistic about the Chinese
economy,” said  Ye Yuzhang , a Shanghai-based interest-rate
trader with Industrial Bank Co., a Chinese lender backed by a
unit of HSBC Holdings Plc.. “The swaps also moved lower across
all maturities because easier interbank liquidity helped push
down the floating repo rates a lot.”  
 The five-year interest-rate swap, the fixed rate to receive
the floating seven-day  repurchase rate , fell 11 basis points
this week to 2.89 percent as of 5:30 p.m. in Shanghai, the
lowest since June 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The
one-year swap also fell 10 basis points to 2.13 percent,
approaching a two-month low.  
 Industrial production  in June rose 13.7 percent from a year
earlier, following a 16.5 percent gain in May and inflation
cooled to 2.9 percent from 3.1 percent, the government reported
yesterday. The data prompted economists to rein in expectations
for central bank interest-rate increases, with HSBC Holdings Plc
and Barclays Capital abandoning calls for such a move by year-
end. In a Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists, nine expected
rates to stay unchanged this year.  
 Money Markets  
 The People’s Bank of China added a net 49 billion yuan
($7.2 billion) of cash into the money market via  open-market
operations , injecting funds for an eighth consecutive week. The
additions have helped lower the seven-day repo rate from a 19-
month high on June 2.  
 The seven-day repurchase  rate , which measures lending costs
between banks, slumped 55 basis points this week to 1.87 percent,
according to a fixing rate published daily by the National
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Ye predicted the five-year swap rate may slide as much as
10 basis points to 2.8 percent before rebounding.  
 “Slower growth in June doesn’t definitely mean we’ll see a
worse economy in the second half,” Ye said. “I don’t think the
swap rates will fall continuously. That could signal a double-
dip in the economy.”  
 Bonds, Yuan Gain  
 Government bonds advanced this week on banks’ rising demand
for debt after a cash shortage eased. The yield on the 3.25
percent note due in May 2020 dropped six basis points to 3.28
percent, and the price of the security rose 0.51 per 100 yuan
face amount to 99.70, the funding center data showed.  
 China’s yuan climbed against the dollar in two weeks as
signs the U.S. economy is losing momentum bolstered demand for
the local currency.  
 The greenback was poised for a third weekly decline against
the euro before reports today that economists said will show U.S.
household sentiment deteriorated this month and consumer prices
fell in June.  
 “The yuan’s move today is simply following the euro and
other currencies in the basket,” said  Liu Dongliang , a
Shenzhen-based analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the
country’s fifth-largest lender by market value.  
 Managed Currency  
 The yuan rose 0.05 percent to 6.7750, from 6.7785 yesterday,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It was
little changed this week.  
 China’s central bank said on June 19 it will manage the
yuan against a basket of currencies and expand the exchange
rate’s flexibility after keeping it little changed since July
2008.  
 The managed float of the yuan’s exchange rate will help
curb inflation and ease asset bubbles, central bank Deputy
Governor Hu Xiaolian,  said  in a statement on the monetary
authority’s website yesterday.  
 -- Belinda Cao ,  Judy Chen . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,  James Regan   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        