-- China, Germany Sign 10 Agreements on Trade, Relations During Merkel Visit
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-16T09:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/china-germany-sign-10-agreements-on-trade-relations-during-merkel-visit.html

          
          
             China and Germany signed 10
agreements worth at least $4.4 billion during Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s visit to Beijing as the two countries seek to bolster
trade and diplomatic relations.  
 Siemens AG  and Shanghai Electric Group Company today signed
a $3.5 billion agreement for research and development of steam
and gas turbines, state-run Xinhua News Agency said. Daimler AG,
Europe’s biggest truck maker, said it signed a 6.35 billion yuan
($937 million) contract with  Beiqi Foton Motor Co .  
 The two countries are aiming to build a “comprehensive
strategic partnership,” Premier  Wen Jiabao  said at a joint
press conference in Beijing. China’s biggest European trading
partner is  Germany , exporting an average of $3.8 billion in
products a month while  importing  $3.3 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  
 “While confronting the international financial crisis,
both countries worked closely together and have become an
example of active cooperation under the new situations between
developed countries and developing countries,” Merkel told
reporters.  
 The other eight agreements include a 2009 Intergovernmental
Fiscal Policy Cooperation Accord, a memorandum of understanding
in climate protection and electric transportation cooperation, a
MOU in export credit agency cooperation, and one to hold a
“Chinese Culture Year” in Germany in 2012, according to the
signing ceremony held this morning in Beijing.  
 “We hope Germany will participate more in the development
of China’s western areas,” Wen said. Merkel is scheduled to
visit the city of Xi’an tomorrow, and meet businessmen together
with the premier, he said.  
 -- Yidi Zhao , with assistance from  Tian Ying ,  Zhe Huang  in
Beijing. Editors:  John Brinsley ,  Mark Williams   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        