-- China Wind Power Priorities Offers Europe Opportunities, Oxford Study Says
-- Jeremy van Loon
-- 2010-07-16T09:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/china-wind-power-priorities-offers-europe-opportunities-oxford-study-says.html

          
          
             China’s changing priorities for wind
power are creating opportunities for European companies as the
world’s biggest polluter seeks to boost wind-park efficiency, a
study by researchers at Oxford University said.  
 Wind park siting, or picking the best site for the turbine
to gain the most wind energy, and grid development are among
opportunities for collaboration between European and Chinese
companies,  Benito Mueller , director of Oxford University’s
 Institute for Energy Studies , and colleagues wrote in a study.  
 China erected more turbines last year than any other
country and may install a record 18 gigawatts of wind power
capacity this year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.
Second-quarter financing of renewable energy in China surged 72
percent to $11.5 billion, more than Europe and the U.S.
combined, New Energy Finance said on July 13.  
 The European Union and China should explore more ventures
to collaborate on wind park development, operations and
transmission, the authors wrote. Additional cooperation may help
China establish targets for carbon-dioxide reductions through
wind power expansion, they said.  
 China has enough wind-energy potential to generate seven
times its current power consumption, said  Michael McElroy , a
researcher at  Harvard University  in a study published last
September in  Science .  
 Wind turbines now operating in China are turning 23 percent
of the time compared with 35 percent in the U.S. because of
lower-quality equipment, limitations by the electric grid and
not having windmills in the best sites, McElroy and his co-
authors wrote at the time.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeremy van Loon  in Berlin at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        