-- China's NAFMII Says Investors Should Pay for Credit Ratings, Not Borrowers
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-16T03:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/china-s-nafmii-says-investors-should-pay-for-credit-ratings-not-borrowers.html

          
          
             Investors rather than borrowers
should pay for credit ratings to ensure the impartiality of
corporate and sovereign risk assessments, according to a China
debt market regulator.  
 “There’s only one type of pay model for China’s rating
agencies at the moment and they all receive money from the
issuer,” the National Association of Financial Market
Institutional Investors, or  NAFMII , said in a draft 94-page
report seen by Bloomberg News. “This model causes a strong
beneficial alliance between the issuer and the ratings agency
that cannot avoid influencing the agency’s independence.”  
 Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have drawn criticism from investors and officials
including Financial Crisis Inquiry Chairman  Phil Angelides  for
assigning top rankings to mortgage-linked securities that blew
up when the U.S. housing market collapsed in 2007. Senator  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat, said in May that there’s a
“staggering” conflict of interest in the credit ratings
industry, where issuers “shop around” for the best ranking.  
 Dagong Global Credit Rating Co., based in Beijing, gave
China’s government a higher debt rating than the U.S., U.K. or
Japan in a report covering 50 nations it published this month.  
 The new ratings are a step towards reform of an
“irrational international rating system” that “cannot truly
reflect repayment ability,” Dagong Chairman Guan Jianzhong said
in a statement.  
 Credit Expansion  
 China is seeking to develop its bond market as an
alternative source of corporate funding after banks extended a
record 9.59 trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion) of loans last year.  
 NAFMII was formed by the People’s Bank of China in 2007 to
help develop the country’s over-the-counter financial markets,
which span bonds, loans, foreign-exchange, commercial paper
market and gold.  
 The association may set up China’s first state-owned credit
rating company to give investors more independent ratings,
Caixin magazine reported in May, without saying where it got the
information.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top China Stories: TOP CH <GO>
Top Financial News: FTOP <GO>
Top Corporate Finance: TOP DEAL <GO>
Bond Market News: TOP BON <GO>  
          
          


  


        