-- N.J. Property-Tax Cap Earns Wealthy Town a Downgrade
-- Dunstan McNichol
-- 2010-07-16T19:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/christie-s-2-tax-cap-earns-affluent-new-jersey-town-a-moody-s-downgrade.html

          
          
             North Haledon, a northern  New Jersey 
suburb where the median family income is 162 percent of the U.S.
 average , had its debt rating cut amid concerns that the state’s
new 2 percent property-tax cap will strain borough finances.  
 Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the town of 9,000
residents one level to A1, the fifth-highest investment grade,
from Aa3, and assigned a negative outlook, which means a further
cut is possible. The moves affect $7.8 million in general
obligation bonds rated by Moody’s out of $21.4 million in debt.  
 North Haledon’s finances have been stretched since New
Jersey placed a 4 percent cap on property taxes in 2007, Moody’s
said in a report today. Governor  Chris Christie ’s 2 percent
limit, signed into law July 13, will challenge North Haledon’s
ability to increase reserves that might drop to $50,000, or less
than 1 percent of revenue, by next June, even with salary
freezes for two fiscal years, according to the ratings firm.  
 “They haven’t implemented an adequate plan to restore
financial flexibility,” Josellyn Yousef, an author of the
Moody’s report, said in a telephone interview. The 2 percent cap
“will restrict their ability” to replenish reserves, she said.  
 Christie, speaking to reporters in Trenton today, said the
Moody’s action on North Haledon shows the need for lawmakers to
pass his proposed “toolkit” that would help local officials
cut spending. His  proposals  include capping pay for school
superintendents and eliminating civil-service protection for
government workers. Democrats control the Legislature.  
 Paying Debts  
 “If there’s anyone down the hall in the Legislature who
had any doubts about the fact that the toolkit has to be done
and that it needs to be a vigorous, aggressive and effective
job, and not a half-hearted job, they will see what starts to
happen in terms of the ratings agencies,” Christie said. “We
expected that folks were going to look at this and say the
toolkit is absolutely necessary.”  
 North Haledon Mayor Randy George, a Republican like
Christie, and the community’s auditor, Chuck Ferraioli, rejected
Moody’s conclusions.  
 “I have zero respect for Moody’s,” Ferraioli said in a
phone interview from his office in Pompton Lakes. “We’re paying
our debts and we always will. Moody’s is so out of touch.”  
 North Haledon, which has a AA rating from Standard &
Poor’s, that firm’s third-highest, is the latest New Jersey
municipality to get a Moody’s downgrade in the face of declining
state aid and limits on increasing the nation’s highest property
taxes. Since Dec. 1, the firm has reduced its ratings on at
least 18 New Jersey communities, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Highest in the Nation  
 The average property-tax bill in North Haledon, located 25
miles (40 kilometers) west of New York City, was $9,001 last
year, according to  data  from the state Department of Community
Affairs. Statewide, the average was $7,281, and the levies
increased 72 percent from 1991 to 2009.  
 The law signed this week by Christie, 47, reduces the
current 4 percent limit on real-estate tax increases, the prime
funding source for schools and local governments, and cuts the
number of exemptions to four from 14. Local governments are
eligible for exceptions to cover bond payments, higher health
insurance or pension costs and natural disasters.  
 The 2 percent cap takes effect in 2011. George, North
Haledon’s mayor for the past 12 years, said the borough will be
able to operate within the terms of the new law.  
 “I know for a fact we can manage,” he said in a telephone
interview from his Borough Hall office today. “Whatever the
governor sends us, we will fulfill it.”  
 Trenton, Newark  
 Trenton, New Jersey’s capital, was downgraded to A3, four
levels above investment grade, from A2 on May 26 after the city
lost $42.5 million in state aid under Christie’s budget for the
fiscal year that started July 1.  Newark , the state’s largest
city, was given a negative outlook by Moody’s on June 2, over
diminishing reserves and a $16 million state aid cut.  
 Wall Township School District, a 25,000-resident district
that has above-average incomes similar to North Haledon’s, was
dropped to Aa3 from Aa2 June 30 amid state aid cuts and the
property-tax cap. Lyndhurst, 8 miles west of New York City, was
given a negative outlook today by Moody’s, which said the
township of 19,300 people faces less state funding and higher
pension costs.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Chris Christie, governor of New Jersey, speaks during an event at the Statehouse in Trenton, New Jersey. Photographer: Tim Larsen/Office of the Governor via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
