-- Churchill Ends Suit Accusing Former Analysts of Passing Secrets to Aviate
-- Andrea Tan
-- 2010-07-16T08:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/churchill-ends-suit-accusing-former-analysts-of-passing-secrets-to-aviate.html

          
          
             Churchill Capital Ltd. , a hedge fund
adviser and brokerage, ended a lawsuit filed against two of its
former equity analysts in Singapore accusing them of passing
confidential client data to rival Aviate Global LLP.  
 A notice to discontinue the lawsuit was filed with the
Singapore High Court yesterday.  
 Churchill had accused  Jonathan Foster  and  Charles Nave  of
breaching their employment contract, which prohibited them from
poaching clients and employees for a year, according to the
April 29 suit. Bermuda-based Churchill said in the suit it found
evidence that the two, who quit at the end of 2009 to join
Aviate, conspired to download several files from the company’s
system.  
 “The matter has now been amicably resolved,” a founding
partner  Patrick Churchill  said in a telephone interview from
Monaco. He declined to disclose settlement terms. Foster and
Nave declined to comment. Aviate wasn’t a party to the suit.  
 Churchill faced a “real and imminent danger” that the duo
may disclose trade secrets to competitors including Aviate,
according to court papers, adding that it would be
“catastrophic” if that happened. Its rivals would then be able
to unfairly compete and have an immediate marketable product or
service that would have otherwise taken months to develop, the
financial advisor said.  
 Foster had failed or forgotten to close his Skype online
international calling account on his office computer while he
was on so-called gardening leave, exposing the duo’s
communication over the data retrieval, according to court
papers. The two men were also in touch with another ex-Churchill
employee who had joined  Aviate .  
 Churchill has offices in U.S., U.K., Australia, Monaco,
Bermuda and Singapore. Religare Enterprises Ltd., an Indian
financial-services company, on June 30 agreed to acquire Aviate
Global (Asia) to bolster its equities business in the region.  
 Churchill was represented by ATMD Bird & Bird LLP while Tan
Peng Chin LLP acted for Foster and Nave.  
 The case is Churchill Singapore Pte. v Jonathan Foster and
Charles Nave S298/2010 in the Singapore High Court.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Tan  in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        