-- Clean Technology Lifts Venture Funding to Highest in 2 Years
-- Ari Levy
-- 2010-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/clean-technology-biotechs-lift-venture-investment-to-highest-in-two-years.html

          
          
             Venture capital funding in the
second quarter jumped to the highest level in almost two years,
as investors increased their bets on alternative energy and
biotechnology.  
 Firms invested $6.52 billion in the U.S. during the period,
a 53 percent increase from a year earlier and the most since the
third quarter of 2008, the  National Venture Capital Association 
and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC said today in a report. The
number of deals rose 29 percent to 906.  
 Clean-technology financing almost tripled to a record $1.47
billion, led by investments in companies that are promoting
electric vehicles and solar power. Startups are attracting
hundreds of millions of dollars in venture financing to build
plants and make products that customers are waiting to buy, said
 Suzanne King , a partner at New Enterprise Associates in Chevy
Chase, Maryland.  
 “The nice thing is that it’s not like build it and hope
they will come,” King said on a conference call yesterday with
reporters. “We’re building to orders that are already in place.”  
 The appetite for initial public offerings in the industry
may be improving after  Tesla Motors Inc. , maker of the $109,000
electric Roadster, sold shares last month. That was the first
IPO for a U.S. clean technology company since September, when
electric car-battery manufacturer A123 Systems Inc. went public.  
 A total of 91 companies filed for IPOs with the Securities
and Exchange Commission last quarter, the most since 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the April-to-June
period, 50 offerings worldwide were shelved, the most in six
quarters, as global stock markets tumbled.  
 Better Place, BrightSource  
 Clean-technology investment has been spurred partly by
President  Barack Obama’s  administration, which said last year
that $80 billion in stimulus spending on renewable-energy
initiatives would help create more than 700,000 jobs.  
 The biggest financing in the quarter was a $350 million
investment in  Better Place Inc. , led by HSBC Holdings Plc,
Morgan Stanley and Lazard Ltd. Better Place, based in Palo Alto,
California, is building networks of battery-swapping and
charging facilities for electric vehicles.  
 BrightSource Energy Inc., an Oakland, California-based
manufacturer of solar panels, raised $150 million from investors
including France’s  Alstom SA , the California State Teachers
Retirement System and VantagePoint Ventures. Miles Electric
Vehicles Inc. in Santa Monica, California, received $57 million,
and San Francisco-based SunRun Inc., which helps homeowners
finance solar power, got $55 million.  
 Biotechnology Financing  
 The trend is continuing in the third quarter. This week,
 General Electric Co.  and a group of venture firms committed to
invest $200 million and initiated a 10-week contest for startups
that are helping speed global power-grid upgrades. Trilliant
Inc., a developer of so-called smart meters for electric
utilities, raised $106 million yesterday from investors
including GE, ABB Ltd. and VantagePoint.  
 “There’s been an avalanche of requests from utilities,”
Trilliant Chief Executive Officer Andrew White said in an
interview this week. “We’re getting about one a week.”  
 Biotechnology investing rose 43 percent to $1.3 billion.
The biggest deal was a $50 million investment in Pacific
Biosciences Inc., a Menlo Park, California-based company that’s
competing to build faster, cheaper gene-mapping machines. The
money came from  Gen-Probe Inc. , a maker of tests for sexually
transmitted diseases.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        