-- Climate Bill Would Reduce U.S. GDP by $452 Billion, Energy Department Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-07-16T19:28:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/climate-bill-would-reduce-u-s-gdp-by-452-billion-energy-department-says.html

          
          
             Proposed Senate legislation to limit
greenhouse gases from power plants, refineries and factories
would cut U.S. gross domestic product by $452 billion, or 0.2
percent, between 2013 and 2035, the  Energy Information
Administration  said today.  
 A cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gases “increases
the cost of using energy, which cuts real economic output,
reduces purchasing power, and lowers aggregate demand for goods
and services,” the agency said in a report on legislation
released May 12 by Senators  John Kerry  and  Joseph Lieberman .  
 The legislation, which aims to cut the greenhouse gases
scientists have linked to global warming 17 percent from the
2005 level by 2020, would cost the average household $206 a
year, the EIA said in the report.  
 Kerry, a Massachusetts Democrat, and Lieberman, a
Connecticut independent, are working on a scaled-back proposal
that targets pollution from power plants. Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has said he wants to include a
carbon-cutting program for power plants in energy legislation to
be debated the week of July 26.  
 Under cap-and-trade, the government issues a declining
number of carbon dioxide allowances which companies can buy and
sell. Allowances carrying the right to release one metric ton of
carbon dioxide into the atmosphere would cost $32 each by 2020
under Kerry and Lieberman’s May proposal, called the American
Power Act, the EIA said.  
 Using Offsets  
 The legislation would let companies use offsets to meet 57
percent of their greenhouse gas reduction goals, according to
the EIA. Offsets are pollution cuts from unregulated sources
such as farms, clean-energy projects in developing countries and
efforts to preserve tropical rainforests.  
 If companies in a U.S. cap-and-trade system couldn’t use
imported carbon offset credits, prices in the market for
government-issued pollution allowances would climb to a range of
$59 to $89 each, according to the report.  
 Under the American Power Act, most of the pollution
reductions that occur within the U.S. come from the electricity
sector. Coal’s share of U.S. power generation would fall from 48
percent to 25 percent, according to the report’s core scenario,
with gains by sources that release little or carbon dioxide,
such as wind farms, geothermal plants and nuclear reactors, the
EIA said.  
 Gas Generation  
 Electricity generation from natural gas, which produces
roughly half as much carbon dioxide per megawatt-hour as coal,
is likely to increase, especially if new nuclear reactors,
renewable power sources and technology to capture and store
smokestack emissions aren’t developed quickly enough to keep
pace with the American Power Act’s pollution cuts, according to
the report.  
 Electricity prices would be as much as 9 percent higher
than usual in 2020 under the American Power Act, according to
EIA’s report. By 2035, when regulated power distribution
companies no longer get free allowances to cushion the cost of
pollution cuts to consumers, electricity prices would be 18 to
42 percent higher than without the American Power Act, the EIA
said in the report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        