-- Commodity Shipping Rates Rise, Snapping Longest Slump in Almost 15 Years
-- Alaric Nightingale
-- 2010-07-16T13:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/commodity-shipping-rates-advance-snapping-longest-losing-run-in-15-years.html

          
          
             Commodity shipping rates measured by
the  Baltic Dry Index  ended their longest losing streak in almost
15 years on speculation owners are refusing to offer vessels at
current hire rates.  
 The index rose 20 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,720 points,
according to the Baltic Exchange in London. That ended a run of
35 consecutive drops, the longest since November 1995, during
which the measure lost 60 percent of its value. Daily rates for
capesizes, typically iron-ore carriers and the biggest tracked
by the gauge, gained 3.5 percent to $12,495.  
 “The underlying market has gone a long way down,”
 Philippe van den Abeele , London-based managing director of
Castalia Fund Management (U.K.) Ltd., said by phone. “At
$12,000 or thereabouts on capes, there will be owners who will
say I’m not showing ships, I’m not giving rates.”  
 The market weakened as new ships entered the fleet,
swelling supply, and on a reduction in Chinese imports of iron
ore. The steelmaking raw material accounted for 29 percent of
all dry-bulk goods hauled at sea in the first quarter, according
to  Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd.  in London.  
 Total bulk fleet capacity will grow 16 percent this year,
twice the rate of demand, according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s
biggest shipbroker. China, the biggest buyer of iron ore,
will cut annual imports for the first time since 1998, Mysteel
Research Institute forecasts. Imports fell in April, May and
June compared with the previous month, according to customs
data.  
 Steel demand from carmakers will slow in the second half
from the first six months,  Xu Lejiang , chairman of Baosteel
Group Corp., China’s second-largest steelmaker, said on July 15.
That may signal that a decline in the world’s biggest metal
market will continue.  
 Chinese Steel Demand  
 “We interpret the recent weakness in the Baltic Index as
reflecting the early stages of a slowdown in Chinese steel
demand,”  Daniel Brebner , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
London, said in a note e-mailed today. “A slowdown in orders
for steel products has resulted in a slowdown in orders for iron
ore over the past month, resulting in a decline in shipping.”  
 Some capesize owners are ready to idle vessels,  Guy Campbell , head of dry bulk at London-based  Clarkson Plc , the
world’s largest shipbroker, said on July 13. That may start next
week with one or two owners looking to anchor ships in
Singapore, he said. Operating expenses for the vessels, once
financing is taken out, are about $7,000 a day, he said.  
 Daily rates for smaller panamaxes, which compete for coal
and iron-ore cargoes and also transport grains, gained 3.1
percent to $16,839 a day. Supramaxes, used on routes that
include carrying Indian iron ore to China, fell 0.8 percent to
$17,448 and  handysizes  that carry grains fell 0.4 percent to
$13,859, the lowest since Nov. 12, 2009, exchange data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alistair Holloway  in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net 
 Alaric Nightingale  in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        