-- Confidence Slides, Heightening Risk of a Slowdown
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-16T20:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/consumer-confidence-declines-more-than-forecast-to-66-5-in-michigan-index.html

          
          
             Confidence among U.S. consumers
tumbled in July to the lowest level in a year, heightening the
risk of a slowdown in economic growth.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment decreased to 66.5, the lowest since
August and less than the most pessimistic forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report showed inflation
cooled last month.  
 The sentiment figures showed a record-low share of
Americans expected their incomes will rise in the next 12
months, underscoring growing pessimism over employment
prospects. Declining confidence may further restrain consumer
spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy, and
hinder the recovery in coming months.  
 “It feels like a wipeout all of a sudden,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in New York who had the
lowest forecast in the Bloomberg survey. “We’ve basically wiped
out all the gains we’ve had for some time. It builds the case
for moderate growth in consumer spending in the second half.”  
 Stocks dropped, wiping out a weekly advance, as revenue at
Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and General Electric Co.
fell short of analyst estimates. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
dropped 2.9 percent to close at 1,064.88 in New York. The S&P
 Consumer Discretionary  Index, which includes Home Depot Inc. and
Comcast Corp., fell 3.5 percent.  
 Range of Estimates  
 The  estimates  for the confidence measure ranged from 71 to
78, according to the survey of 62 economists. The  9.5-point
decline  from June’s final reading of 76 was the biggest since
October 2008.  
 Second-quarter sales at stores open at least a year were
unchanged at  Yum! Brands Inc. , the owner of Taco Bell, Pizza Hut
and KFC restaurants, because of a “challenging consumer
environment” in the U.S. Rising overseas demand prompted the
Louisville, Kentucky-based company to raise its annual profit
forecast.  
 “In the U.S., we are still facing sustained unemployment
and a concerned U.S. consumer,”  Richard Carucci , chief
financial officer, said on a conference call with investors on
July 14.  
 More than 7 out of 10 Americans believed the economy is
mired in recession, according to a Bloomberg National Poll
conducted July 9-12. Just 1 in 6 believed they are personally
better off than they were 18 months ago, when President  Barack Obama  took office.  
 Inflation Cools  
 A report from the Labor Department showed consumer prices
fell 0.1 percent in June, a third consecutive decrease. The
decrease brought the gain in the cost of living over the past 12
months down to 1.1 percent from 2 percent in the year ended May.  
 Costs of goods and services  excluding  food and energy were
up 0.2 percent, more than forecast and the biggest gain since
October.  
 The report showed rents, the biggest component of the
consumer-price index, stabilized, while the cost of clothing and
used cars climbed, diminishing the risk of deflation, or a
protracted drop in prices. The lack of inflation gives Federal
Reserve policy makers scope to leave the benchmark interest rate
near zero in coming months to help reinvigorate the economy.  
 “Inflation will be tame because there is so much slack in
the economy, but this number should lessen deflation fears
somewhat,” said  James O’Sullivan , chief economist at MF Global
Ltd. in New York.  
 Sentiment Breakdown  
 The Michigan report’s gauge of  current  conditions, which
reflects Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and
whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
fell to an eight-month low of 75.5 from 85.6 in the prior month.  
 The index of consumer  expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of spending, dropped
to 60.6, the lowest since March 2009, from 69.8.  
 The share of consumers anticipating income gains during the
coming year dropped to 39 percent, the lowest on record. Three
of four Americans surveyed said they expected no decline in
unemployment in the next 12 months.  
 Retail sales  fell in June for a second month, a Commerce
Department report showed this week.  Target Corp. , the second-
largest U.S. discount chain, reported a June same-store sales
gain that included strong demand for food and clothing and
“particularly soft” purchases of electronics and music.  
 Government Policy  
 Today’s sentiment report also showed confidence about the
government’s economic policy fell to the lowest level since the
start of the Obama administration. The proportion that said
economic policies were unfavorable rose to 42 percent in July,
almost twice the low of 22 percent in May 2009, the report said.  
 Consumers in the survey said they expect an inflation rate
of 2.9 percent over the next 12 months, compared with 2.8
percent in June.  
 Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Fed policy
makers, prices were projected to climb 2.9 percent compared with
2.8 percent the prior month.  
 Economists trimmed projections for 2010 consumer spending
to an average 2.4 percent from 2.5 percent predicted in June,
according to a Bloomberg survey taken July 1 to July 8. They
forecast the jobless rate, which reached a 26-year high of 10.1
percent in October 2009, will average 9.6 percent this year.  
 One source of relief for households is fuel prices. The
cost of  regular  unleaded gasoline averaged $2.72 a gallon at the
pump in the first half of July, unchanged from the June average,
according to AAA.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Stocks tumbled after the report  
                       
                         
                           Jin Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer sentiment fell to 66.5 in July from 76 a month earlier, below forecasts. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had a median projection of 74. Bloomberg's Mike McKee reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
