-- Copper Falls Most in Two Weeks on Concern Slowing Economy Will Curb Demand
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-07-16T18:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/copper-may-slide-in-london-on-concern-economic-rebound-in-u-s-might-stall.html

          
          
             Copper futures in New York fell the
most in two weeks on concern that a slowing global economy will
limit demand for metal used in homes, cars and appliances.  
 U.S. manufacturing contracted in June by the most in a
year, and second-quarter growth  slowed  in China, according to
separate reports this week. China and the U.S. are the world’s
top metals users. Copper prices have slumped 12 percent this
year.  
 “The fears of a double-dip recession are still out
there,” said  Matthew Zeman , a trader at LaSalle Futures Group
in Chicago. “We’re not going to see a whole lot of upside from
copper in the near term.”  
 Copper futures for September delivery fell 8.25 cents, or
2.7 percent, to $2.9295 a pound on the Comex in New York. That
marked the biggest drop for a most-active contract since June 29
and put this week’s decline at 4.1 percent.  
 A Labor Department report today showed the cost of living
in the U.S. fell in June for a third straight month. The
consumer-price index slipped 0.1 percent, dragged down by
plunging energy costs.  
 “People are still worried about deflation and what that
will mean for the commodities,” Zeman said.  
 Confidence Tumbles  
 Confidence among U.S. consumers tumbled in July to the
lowest level in a year, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of sentiment. Consumer
spending accounts for 70 percent of the U.S. economy.  
 “The slow recovery in demand outside China, coupled with
growing concerns over the global economic recovery, will keep a
check on copper prices,” First Global analysts, led by London-
based Chief Investment Strategist  Devina Mehra , said today in a
report.  
 On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months lost $195, or 2.9 percent, to $6,485 a metric ton ($2.94
a pound).  
 Aluminum, zinc, nickel, lead and tin prices also fell.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        