-- Countrywide Financial, JPMorgan, HSBC, Skilled Healthcare in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-16T12:17:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/countrywide-financial-jpmorgan-hsbc-skilled-healthcare-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  agreed to
pay $550 million and change its business practices to settle
U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in collateralized
debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.  
 The penalty is the largest ever levied by the Securities
and Exchange Commission against a Wall Street firm, the agency
said in a statement announcing the accord yesterday. Under the
deal, Goldman Sachs acknowledged it made a “mistake” and that
marketing materials for the instruments had “incomplete
information,” the agency said.  
 “This settlement is a stark lesson to Wall Street firms
that no product is too complex, and no investor too
sophisticated, to avoid a heavy price if a firm violates the
fundamental principles of honest treatment and fair dealing,”
SEC Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami said in the statement.  
 Goldman Sachs created and sold the CDOs in 2007, as the
U.S. housing market faltered, without disclosing that hedge fund
Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying securities and bet
against the vehicles, the SEC said in an April 16 lawsuit.
Billionaire John Paulson’s firm earned $1 billion on the trade
and wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  
 “It was a mistake for the Goldman marketing materials to
state that the reference portfolio was ‘selected by’ ACA
Management LLC without disclosing the role of Paulson & Co. Inc.
in the portfolio selection process,” the SEC’s statement quoted
Goldman Sachs as saying in settlement documents.  
 The bank, based in New York, didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing under the accord, the SEC said. The payment includes
a $300 million fine and $250 million as restitution to
investors. The settlement is subject to a judge’s approval.  
 For more, click here.  
 New Suits  
 Firefighters Flooded Rig, Caused Oil Spill, Suit Says  
 The worst oil spill in U.S. history was triggered by
firefighting boats that flooded the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig with water, causing it to sink into the Gulf of Mexico and
damage  BP Plc’s  well, a lawsuit claims.  
 Commercial fishermen, waterfront property owners and oil
industry workers who have lost jobs because of the oil spill
yesterday sued 17 companies whose fireboats responded to the
explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon on April 20. The rig was
still attached to the subsea well when it sank two days later.  
 “It was the flooding of the Deepwater Horizon and the
resulting sinking of the rig that directly caused the piping to
break and begin spewing millions of gallons of oil into the
ocean,” Lloyd Frischhertz and Gerald Maples, lawyers for the
spill victims, said in a complaint filed in federal court in New
Orleans.  
 The lawsuit doesn’t seek damages from BP, rig-owner
 Transocean Ltd.  or the U.S. Coast Guard, which helped direct the
firefighting effort. The plaintiffs claim the fireboats violated
industry standard procedures that warn against using water
cannons to attack pressurized oil fires aboard marine vessels.  
 “Any request or encouragement by U.S. Coast Guard, British
Petroleum or Transocean to pump water and use water cannons”
for extended periods to fight the fire “should have been met
with protest and refusal,” according to the complaint.  
 As many as eight fireboats each shot “10,000 to 50,000
gallons of seawater on the rig per minute,” according to the
complaint. They flooded the rig’s upper compartments and
destabilized it, causing it to tip over and sink, the plaintiffs
said.  
 Molly Hottinger, a spokeswoman for Seacor Holdings Inc.,
parent of defendant Seacor Marine, declined to comment. Les Van
Dyke, a spokesman for Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc., a unit of
which is also a defendant in the suit, didn’t immediately return
a call for comment.  
 The case is Robin v. Seacor Marine LLC, 2:10-cv-01986, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 Countrywide ‘Disregarded’ Guidelines, Lawsuit Says  
 Countrywide Financial Corp. , the mortgage lender acquired
by Bank of America Corp., systemically disregarded lending
guidelines in the loans it underwrote, according to a revised
lawsuit by investors.  
 Documents for mortgages originated by Countrywide and later
securitized contained misrepresentations and omissions, and
didn’t follow the lender’s own guidelines, the investors said in
the 146-page complaint.  
 “Despite assurances by the defendants in the offering
documents that mortgage loans collateralizing the certificates
were originated pursuant to stated guidelines, nothing could
have been further from the truth,” the plaintiffs said.  
 The complaint, which seeks group status on behalf of
investors who claim to have purchased $351 billion of mortgage-
backed securities, was filed yesterday. A copy was posted on a
 website  by lawyers representing the plaintiffs and couldn’t be
independently verified.  
 The suit, which alleges violations of federal securities
laws, was first filed in January.  
 Shirley Norton, a Bank of America spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  
 The case is Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide,
10-cv-00302, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  
 For more new lawsuits, click here. For copies of civil
complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 BP Suits Top 300 on Claims by Workers, Mall, Sheriff  
 BP Plc  faces more than 300 lawsuits seeking billions of
dollars in potential claims as damage from the worst oil spill
in U.S. history ripples through the nation’s Gulf Coast economy.  
 A regional shopping mall in southern Louisiana sued July 12
in New Orleans federal court over the loss of customers, a
parish sheriff filed suit there July 9 to recover lost business
tax revenue, and growing numbers of BP employees and investors
lodged claims over alleged corporate mismanagement that caused
BP’s share price to fall by half. The complaints surpassed 300
July 14, according to court records compiled by Bloomberg.  
 These lawsuits join scores of proposed class actions filed
by commercial fishing companies, beach-front property owners,
restaurant owners and environmentalists claiming harm from the
drifting oil. Legal experts said the number of suits will
continue to rise after the damaged well has stopped gushing oil.  
 “There are more than 100,000 individual damage claims
filed in the BP claims process, so we’ll probably see a multiple
of that number of court cases before it’s all said and done,”
Houston attorney  Brent Coon  said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  
 Coon said he’s filed “very few” lawsuits so far on behalf
of the 100 spill-related clients he represents, because he’s
waiting to see whether London-based BP pays claims from the $20
billion fund the company created for that purpose.  
 Michael Salt, a spokesman for BP, declined to comment.  
 Estimates of BP’s ultimate payout over the spill are rising
along with the number of lawsuits. Analysts in May estimated
costs of judgments and claims wouldn’t exceed $20 billion. A
June 2 Credit Suisse report assessed BP’s liabilities at $37
billion in cleanup and potential litigation expenses. Three
weeks later, oil analyst  Fadel Gheit , at Oppenheimer & Co., put
the financial hit from the Deepwater Horizon rig disaster as
high as $60 billion.  
 Lawyers will ask a panel of federal judges in Boise, Idaho,
on July 29 to consolidate the cases into two multidistrict
litigations, or MDLs, to streamline pretrial rulings, evidence-
gathering and organization.  
 One MDL would cover economic loss and environmental damage
claims in a dozen states. Most of these cases also name as
defendants  Transocean Ltd. , Halliburton Energy Services, Cameron
International Corp. and Anadarko Petroleum, all of whom
allegedly played a role in the spill. BP has asked the Boise
panel to consolidate the cases in federal court in Houston,
while attorneys for multiple plaintiffs are seeking assignment
to New Orleans.  
 The other MDL will cover lawsuits by investors in BP U.S.
 shares  who claim the company’s officers failed to disclose
safety problems, artificially inflating stock value, or that
management failures led to the spill.  
 “BP’s procedures for minimizing its financial losses from
drilling rig problems were no more than fantasies,” according
to a complaint in a shareholder class action filed in Lafayette,
Louisiana. “BP was simply not the enterprise that its public
communications pictured.”  
 For more, click here.  
 JPMorgan Wins Dismissal of Madoff Fraud Victim’s Lawsuit  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-largest U.S. bank by
assets, won dismissal of a lawsuit by a victim of Bernard L.
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme claiming the bank knowingly participated
in the fraud.  
 U.S. District Judge Barbara S. Jones in New York yesterday
threw out a suit filed by MLSMK Investments Co., which said the
New York-based bank in September 2008 investigated Madoff,
determined he was a fraud and liquidated its $250 million
investment in a Madoff-linked fund.  
 “While it might have been possible for defendants to
determine that Madoff was committing fraud from the ‘red flags’
that plaintiff points out, plaintiff alleges no facts to
demonstrate that defendants actually did make such a
discovery,” Jones wrote in an opinion released yesterday.  
 MLSMK, a Palm Beach, Florida, partnership, claimed it lost
$12.8 million to Madoff from October to December 2008, the month
Madoff was arrested and charged in history’s biggest Ponzi
scheme.  
 “We thought we laid out enough of a factual basis, at the
pleading stage, to show that Chase knew at least by September
2008 that Madoff was committing fraud, but continued providing
services that enabled him to continue the fraud,” said Howard
Kleinhendler, a lawyer for MLSMK.  
 Kleinhendler said his client is considering an appeal.  
 The case is MLSMK Investments Co. v. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
09-cv-04049, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For more lawsuit news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Conrad Black Not Entitled to Bail, U.S. Tells Appeals Court  
 Conrad Black, the imprisoned ex-Hollinger International
Inc. chief executive officer found guilty of fraud and
obstructing justice, isn’t entitled to bail as an appeals court
reviews his conviction, prosecutors argued.  
 Black, 65, last week asked the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Chicago to free him while it reviews his conviction in light of
last month’s Supreme Court ruling that narrowed the scope of a
federal law making it a crime to deprive someone of the right to
“honest services.”  
 The government said yesterday in court papers that Black’s
trial jury had proof that the former CEO committed fraud
involving money, not just the deprivation of honest-services.  
 Prosecutors “presented the honest-services fraud theory to
the jury based on the same fraudulent conduct that supported the
money-fraud theory,” the Justice Department told the court. The
jury had sufficient evidence to convict either way, they said.
Black shouldn’t be freed because he’s unlikely to win the
appeal, they said.  
 The honest-services fraud law was used to prosecute
corporate officers and public officials who the government said
had cheated shareholders and taxpayers. Ex-Illinois Governor Rod
Blagojevich is facing honest-services fraud charges in a
criminal trial in the U.S. courthouse where Black was convicted.  
 Black and former Enron Corp. CEO Jeffrey Skilling were
convicted after trials based in part on that charge. Since March
2008, Black has been serving a 6 1/2-year sentence at a federal
prison in Coleman, Florida.  
 “The Supreme Court has now unanimously ruled that a
violation affecting Mr. Black’s Sixth Amendment jury trial right
occurred,” wrote defense attorney Miguel A. Estrada of the
Washington office of Los Angeles-based Gibson Dunn & Crutcher
LLP.  
 Estrada told the court Black’s conviction must be set aside
unless the court is certain the jury’s verdict couldn’t be
attributed to instructions they received from the trial judge on
the honest-services law.  
 Black and three associates were found guilty in the theft
of $6.1 million from Hollinger International as they engineered
its sale of assets. The company was once the world’s third-
largest publisher of English-language newspapers.  
 The case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. Seventh Circuit
Court of Appeals (Chicago).  
 For more trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Swiss Lawyer Indicted for Conspiring With HSBC Client  
 A Swiss lawyer was indicted on U.S. charges that he helped
a Virginia surgeon use an  HSBC Holding Plc  account to hide
assets from the Internal Revenue Service.  
 Felix Mathis, a Zurich-based attorney at Froriep Renggli
LLP, is alleged to have used a sham Liechtenstein trust to
conceal assets that the surgeon, Andrew Silva, held at HSBC. The
federal grand jury in Virginia also accused Mathis in two
“structuring” counts of helping Silva secretly import $235,000
into the U.S. without reporting it to the government.  
 Silva was sentenced on June 11 to two years of probation
after pleading guilty to conspiring with a Swiss banker and a
Zurich attorney to defraud the IRS. As part of his guilty plea,
Silva, who is cooperating with prosecutors, implicated Mathis.  
 The U.S. Justice Department is also conducting a criminal
investigation of HSBC clients who may have failed inform the IRS
of accounts in India or Singapore, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  
 A call to Mathis’s office in Zurich after business hours
wasn’t returned. He faces up to 25 years in prison if convicted.  
 Silva in 1997 inherited from his mother a bank account held
at the Zurich branch of an “international bank” in the name of
the Liechtenstein trust, prosecutors said. Two years later, he
met with Mathis, who managed the account and advised the surgeon
not to disclose it to U.S. authorities, they said.  
 Told the bank was closing the account in September 2009,
Silva made two trips to Zurich to meet with Mathis and the Swiss
banker late last year, prosecutors said. They refused to wire
the funds to the U.S. because it would “leave a trail” for law
enforcement and instead gave him $200,000 in two individually
wrapped “bricks” of $100,000 each, prosecutors said.  
 To avoid U.S. requirements that he report the importation
of amounts exceeding $10,000 in currency, Silva mailed the cash
home in 26 packages, they said. He had Mathis’ help, prosecutors
said.  
 Mathis is not in U.S. custody.  
 The case is USA v. Mathis, 10-cr-260, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  
 Dole Banana Workers Jury Award Tossed Due to Fraud  
 Dole Food Co. , the world’s biggest  producer  of fresh fruit
and vegetables, won dismissal of a $2.3 million California jury
award to Nicaraguan banana workers who claimed exposure to
pesticides.  
 California Court of Appeal Judge Victoria Chaney, at a
hearing yesterday in Los Angeles, threw out the 2007 verdict and
the underlying lawsuit, after hearing arguments last week by
Dole lawyers that the plaintiffs had lied about becoming sterile
because of pesticides used at Dole’s banana farms in Nicaragua
in the late 1970s.  
 “The judgment is vacated” Chaney said, citing “blatant”
fraud, active concealment and witness tampering by lawyers in
Nicaragua that deprived Dole of its right to gather evidence in
the Central American country. “Retrial is not an option.”  
 Chaney’s ruling follows her order last year dismissing two
related cases by groups of purported banana workers before they
had gone to trial. She found that the lawsuits were the result
of a pattern of “deliberate and egregious misconduct” by
lawyers in Nicaragua who had recruited the plaintiffs.  
 Steve Condie, a lawyer for the Nicaraguans, said he will
appeal the decision. The judge’s ruling was based on testimony
from secret, so-called John Doe witnesses who the plaintiffs’
lawyers weren’t allowed to interview, Condie said after the
hearing. Some of those witnesses later admitted they had been
paid by  Dole , according to the lawyer.  
 Chaney said in her decision that she wasn’t persuaded by
the allegations of bribery.  
 Scott Edelman, a lawyer for Dole, said after the hearing
that the judge had approved the expenses the company paid for
the protected witnesses. Chaney allowed Dole to introduce
evidence of fraud provided by the anonymous witnesses after the
2007 trial. Dole claimed that the witnesses would be in danger
in Nicaragua if their identities became known.  
 “It’s never been about banana workers,” Edelman said.
“This case was brought by fake banana workers.”  
 Most of Dole’s records in Nicaragua were destroyed in the
aftermath of the Sandinista revolution, opening the door to the
fraudulent claims, according to lawyers for the company, based
in Westlake Village, California.  
 The 2007 trial has been the only one in the U.S. by foreign
workers claiming sterility from DBCP exposure. Thousands of
similar claims from workers in Central American countries are
pending in state court in Los Angeles.  
 The case is Tellez v. Dole Food Co., BC312852, Superior
Court of California, Los Angeles County.  
 Fundraiser Nemazee Gets 12 Years for Citigroup, HSBC Fraud  
 Hassan Nemazee, a fundraiser for President Barack Obama and
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, was sentenced to 12 years in
prison for cheating  Citigroup Inc.,   HSBC Holdings Plc  and  Bank
of America Corp.  of $292 million.  
 U.S. District Judge Sidney Stein in New York yesterday
imposed the punishment, including restitution of $292 million to
the three banks. Nemazee can remain free until he reports to
prison by Aug. 27, Stein said.  
 “Pride, ego, arrogance, self-image, self-importance -- all
of this and more are among the reasons why I turned down this
destructive path,” Nemazee told the judge before he was
sentenced.  
 Nemazee, 60, pleaded guilty in March. The government asked
for a prison term of 15 1/2 to 19 1/2 years, saying he ran a
Ponzi scheme that used proceeds from one bank loan to pay
others.  
 “Part of the manner in which the defendant was able to
dupe the banks into lending him substantial sums of money was to
trade on his substantial reputation in political circles as a
prodigious fundraiser,” the government said in court papers.  
 Prosecutors have hired a forensic expert to help locate
Nemazee’s assets. They are investigating whether he stashed
assets overseas. The government assailed him in court papers for
failing to cooperate in its investigation.  
 Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Lockard valued Nemazee’s
Manhattan apartment on Park Avenue at $16.5 million, his estate
in Katonah, New York, at $2.1 million, and two other New York
apartments at more than $2 million each. Nemazee also owns real
estate in Italy.  
 Prosecutors recovered $93.5 million in cash and securities,
including $75 million that Nemazee took from an HSBC line of
credit shortly before his arrest last August, they said. The
government is seeking the return of political and charitable
donations to more than 100 organizations, Lockard said.  
 Sheila Nemazee, the defendant’s wife, and other family
members are contesting part of the forfeiture efforts, claiming
assets such as the Park Avenue apartment as their own.  
 The case is U.S. v. Nemazee, 1:09-cr-00902, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Ryanair, O’Leary Settle EasyJet Founder’s Suit on Pinocchio Ad  
 Ryanair Holdings Plc  and Michael O’Leary, its chief
executive officer, apologized to the founder of rival  EasyJet
Plc  and agreed to pay about 50,000 pounds ($77,000) to settle a
lawsuit over an advertisement that likened him to  Pinocchio .  
 At a hearing yesterday at the High Court in London, lawyers
for O’Leary withdrew allegations made against Stelios Haji-
Ioannou, who prefers to go by Stelios, in a series of
advertisements.  
 In a half-page advertisement in the Daily Telegraph
yesterday, O’Leary and Ryanair apologized “unreservedly” for
tagging a photograph of Stelios as “Easyjet’s-Mr. Late Again”
in a prior advertisement carried in the newspaper.  
 “It is not very often that someone as arrogant and as
powerful as O’Leary is forced to apologize to someone else in
public,” Stelios said in an e-mailed statement. “I took this
legal action to protect my reputation. I am not a liar and that
statement was libelous.”  
 The contested ads, published in January and February, said
EasyJet hadn’t published its on-time flight statistics for 37
weeks and showed a picture of Stelios with his nose elongated
like the character Pinocchio, Stelios’s lawyer Chris Scott said
at the hearing yesterday.  
 When Stelios asked for an apology, Ryanair refused and said
the dispute should be settled with a sumo wrestling contest or a
race around London’s Trafalgar Square, Scott said, reading a
joint statement signed by both Stelios’s and Ryanair’s lawyers.  
 The case is Haji-Ioannou v. O’Leary, HQ10X00565, High Court
of Justice Queens Bench Division.  
 For more, click here.  
 Skilled Healthcare Agrees to Mediation to Settle Verdict Award  
 Skilled Healthcare Group Inc. , which was ordered by a
California jury to pay $671 million for improperly staffing
nursing homes, agreed to try to settle the case in mediation.  
 Skilled Healthcare and the plaintiffs in the suit agreed to
end all litigation during the mediation, the Foothill Ranch,
California-based company said in a statement yesterday.  
 The plaintiffs  accused  Skilled Healthcare of improperly
staffing 22 facilities in the state. A Humboldt County jury on
July 6 found the company liable for $613 million in statutory
damages, the maximum allowed by state law, and $58 million for
restitution.  
 The lawsuit was filed in 2006 on behalf of current and
former residents of 22 Skilled Healthcare operations in
California.  
 The verdict is the largest jury award in the U.S. this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Skilled
Healthcare said the award exceeds the policy limits of its
insurance. The company had a  net loss  of $133 million last year
on revenue of $759.8 million.  
 Skilled Healthcare also agreed not to file for bankruptcy
protection during the mediation period, which is scheduled to
end Aug. 9. The proposal must be approved by a judge.  
 The case is Lavender v. Skilled Healthcare Group, DR060264,
Superior Court, Humboldt County, California (Eureka).  
 Telkom South Africa to Pay $80 Million to End Telcordia Dispute  
 Telkom South Africa Ltd. , Africa’s largest fixed-line phone
company, said it will pay U.S. software maker Telcordia
Technologies Inc. $80 million to settle a nine-year dispute over
a canceled contract.  
 The companies reached an agreement based on an arbitration
ruling, Pretoria-based Telkom said in a statement yesterday.
Telkom made a provision of $77 million for the dispute in March.  
 The dispute arose in 2001 when Telkom terminated a contract
placed with Telcordia for the supply of a customer-care
management system. Telcordia claimed damages of $128 million
plus interest at an annual rate of 15.5 percent.  
 Telcordia, based in Piscataway, New Jersey, was acquired in
2005 by private-equity firms Providence Equity Partners Inc. and
Warburg Pincus LLC from Science Applications International
Corp., according to the software maker’s website.  
 For more verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 Court News  
 Specter Says He Will Back Kagan’s U.S. Supreme Court Nomination  
 Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Democrat, said he
will support Elena Kagan’s nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court
even though he has misgivings about her “non-answers” to
questions at her confirmation hearings.  
 Specter, a member of the  Senate Judiciary Committee , said
in a USA Today opinion column he will vote for Kagan in part
because she has endorsed one of his pet causes, allowing
television cameras at Supreme Court arguments.  
 He also applauded her high regard for the late Supreme
Court Justice Thurgood Marshall. That suggests Kagan, a Marshall
law clerk, will “protect individual rights in the
congressional-executive battles,” Specter wrote.  
 “In addition to her intellect, academic and professional
qualifications, Kagan did just enough to win my vote by her
answers that television would be good for the country and the
court and by identifying Justice Marshall as her role model,’ he
said.  
 The Judiciary Committee will vote July 20 on  Kagan’s 
nomination, putting it on track for confirmation about two
months before the beginning of the next court term. Jim Manley,
a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, said the full
Senate will vote the week of Aug. 2.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        