-- Daimler Posts Second-Quarter Earnings Before Interest, Tax of $2.7 Billion
-- Chad Thomas
-- 2010-07-16T14:43:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/daimler-posts-second-quarter-earnings-before-interest-tax-of-2-7-billion.html

          
          
             Daimler AG , the second-largest
luxury-car maker, raised its full-year profit forecast after
quarterly earnings beat analysts’ estimates on a surge in demand
for Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks.  
 Daimler will announce a new target for 2010 earnings before
interest and taxes when it releases detailed quarterly results
July 27, the Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker said in a
statement today. The current projection is for more than 4
billion euros ($5.2 billion) in Ebit. Second-quarter Ebit
reached 2.1 billion euros as sales climbed 28 percent.  
 “These numbers exceed expectations in all segments,” said
Aleksej Wunrau, an analyst at Frankfurt-based BHF-Bank AG who
recommends buying the shares. “The turnaround in the trucks
market is unfolding more rapidly than thought. Same for cars, a
much better development than expected.”  
 Like market leader  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , which also
increased its forecast this week, Daimler is benefitting from a
jump in luxury-car demand in China. Daimler, also the world’s
largest maker of heavy trucks, raised projections for the group
in April and for the Mercedes unit twice in the past quarter as
the global economic recovery spurred demand.  
 Daimler  rose  as much as 1.43 euros, or 3.3 percent, to
44.70 euros and was 0.3 percent lower at 43.13 euros as of 4:42
p.m. in Frankfurt. BMW lost 1 cent to 42.25 euros.  
 Truck Sales  
 The second-quarter Ebit compared with an operating loss in
the year-earlier period, Daimler said. Revenue increased 28
percent to 25.1 billion euros. The company had been projected to
report Ebit of 1.5 billion euros on sales of 22.7 billion euros,
according to the average estimates of  analysts  compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Mercedes-Benz Cars’ operating profit reached 1.38 billion
euros, compared with a loss of 340 million euros a year earlier.
The truck unit posted an Ebit of 300 million euros compared with
a loss of 508 million euros.  
 Daimler is seeking to close the gap with Munich-based BMW
and fend off Volkswagen AG’s Audi. The Mercedes-Benz maker aims
to gain market share this year by introducing an extended
version of its full-size E-Class sedan, its first vehicle
targeted at the Chinese market.  
 Mercedes-Benz second-quarter production output of “well
over” 300,000 vehicles will be close to the volumes achieved
before the start of the financial crisis,  Daimler  said May 28.  
 Deliveries of Mercedes-Benz vehicles in China, which
overtook the U.S. as the largest auto market last year, more
than doubled in the first quarter.  
 “The second-quarter Ebit was especially carried by
Mercedes-Benz,” Daimler said. “The main factors for this
excellent result were a positive sales development, especially
in China and the U.S., an advantageous product mix as well as
better price penetration and positive exchanges effects.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Helsinki at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        