-- David Plate Pleads Guilty in Galleon Insider-Trading Case, Will Cooperate
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-07-16T17:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/david-plate-pleads-guilty-in-galleon-insider-trading-case-will-cooperate.html

          
          
             David Plate , who is charged in the
Galleon Group LLC insider-trading case, pleaded guilty to two
criminal counts and is cooperating with the government.  
 The plea came in a hearing today before U.S. District Judge
 Richard Sullivan  in New York. Plate, who admitted to securities
fraud and conspiracy to commit securities fraud, told Sullivan
that he bought 50,000 shares of Axcan Pharma Inc. in November
2007, based on insider information that originated with two
lawyers at the law firm  Ropes & Gray .  
 The counts Plate pleaded to carry a combined maximum
sentence of 25 years in prison. Sullivan didn’t set a date for
sentencing.  
 Plate, a former trader at Schottenfeld Group LLC, is among
21 people charged in two overlapping insider trading cases
involving Galleon Group founder  Raj Rajaratnam . Plate is one of
12 who have pleaded guilty. Most but not all have agreed to
cooperate with prosecutors and testify against others.  
 The first wave of arrests in the case came on Oct. 6, when
Rajaratnam was among six people accused by federal prosecutors.
Four of those have pleaded guilty. Rajaratnam has denied
wrongdoing.  
 Plate’s Arrest  
 Plate’s was arrested Nov. 5, when prosecutors announced a
second round of charges in an alleged insider trading ring led
by former Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer . Plate, Goffer and five
others were indicted in January. Plate is the only defendant
among those seven to plead guilty.  
 Among the alleged sources of information for the so-called
Goffer ring were lawyers at Ropes & Gray.  Arthur Cutillo , an
attorney at the firm, was indicted along with Plate and Goffer
and has pleaded innocent. Another former lawyer at the firm,
 Brien Santarlas , has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with
prosecutors.  
 Santarlas admitted in his Dec. 10 plea that he passed along
tips about transactions on which Ropes & Gray worked.  
 In the hearing today, Plate also admitted getting tips on
 3Com Corp.  from Goffer. Plate said that Goffer told him to keep
his research file on 3Com to help cover his tracks.  
 The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-56, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        