-- Demand for U.S. Long-Term Financial Assets Weakened in May
-- Vincent Del Giudice
-- 2010-07-16T14:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/demand-for-u-s-long-term-financial-assets-weakened-in-may-on-stock-sales.html

          
          
             Global demand for long-term U.S.
financial assets slowed in May from a month earlier as investors
abroad sold stocks and foreign central banks reduced their
holdings of Treasury bills.  
 Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$35.4 billion for the month, compared with net purchases of
$81.5 billion in April, the Treasury Department reported today
in Washington. Including short-term securities such as stock
swaps, total net flows were $17.5 billion, compared with $13
billion the previous month.  
 While the European debt crisis led investors to buy
American securities as a safe haven, a slower pace of growth in
the U.S. may deter investment in the second half of the year.
The report showed net selling of U.S. stocks for the first time
since February 2009, and a 12th straight month in which
investors were net buyers of U.S. government notes and bonds.  
 “There’s still such a healthy appetite for Treasuries,”
said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at CIBC World Markets in
Toronto. “There are some worries about the budget deficit
driving yields through the roof, but we can see for now those
concerns are premature.”  
 Economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  projected long-term
U.S. financial assets would show a net increase of $40 billion
in May, according to the median of six economists’ projections.
The estimates for net buying ranged from $25 billion to $132.9
billion.  
 U.S. Securities  
 The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities captures
international purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks,
corporate debt and securities issued by U.S. agencies such as
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , which buy home mortgages.  
 China, the biggest foreign investor in Treasuries, lowered
its holdings by $32.5 billion in May to $867.7 billion.  
 In a report to Congress released July 8, the Treasury
Department said China’s currency, the yuan, “remains
undervalued” after the nation last month ended its peg to the
dollar. It also said China took a “significant step” when it
began to allow markets to drive the currency higher.  
 Japan, the second-largest owner, lowered its holdings by
$8.8 billion in May to $786.7 billion.  
 Total net foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds
were $15 billion in May, the weakest level since May 2009 and
down from $76.4 billion in April.  
 Bill Selling  
 Net selling of bills totaled $9.1 billion, after net sales
of $3.6 billion a month earlier.  
 China’s holdings of short-term Treasury obligations,
including  bills , dropped to $6.8 billion in May from a peak of
$210.4 billion a year earlier and were at the lowest level since
April 2006, the report showed.  
 U.S. Treasuries returned 1.7 percent in May, according to
an index compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 Foreign demand for U.S. agency debt from companies such as
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac registered net buying of $27.4
billion in May, the highest since June 2008, after purchases of
$14.3 billion in April.  
 Net foreign sales of equities were $432 million in May
after net buying of $9.6 billion in April.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  in May declined 8.2
percent, the steepest monthly fall since February 2009, while
the  Dollar Index , a gauge of the U.S. currency’s strength
against six other major currencies, rose 5.8 percent during the
month.  
 Investors also sold a net $9 billion in corporate debt in
May after buying totaled a net $10.1 billion a month earlier.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Vincent Del Giudice  in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        