-- Denway Shareholders Accept Buyout, Paving Way for Guangzhou Auto Listing
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-16T06:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/denway-shareholders-accept-buyout-paving-way-for-guangzhou-auto-listing.html

          
          
             Guangzhou Automobile Group Co.  moved
closer to a listing in Hong Kong when shareholders of its Hong
Kong unit  Denway Motors Ltd.  approved a buyout offer from the
Chinese automaker.  
 A “big proportion” of investors voted in favor of the
buyout plan, Denway Chairman  Zhang Fangyou  said after a
shareholders’ meeting in Hong Kong today. Denway investors will
receive shares in Guangzhou Auto under the deal.  
 Guangzhou Auto, a partner of Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda
Motor Co. in China, has applied to begin trading its shares on
the Hong Kong stock exchange’s main board on August 30. The deal
offers access to Denway’s factories in southern China and opens
more fund-raising channels to help Guangzhou Auto compete with
 SAIC Motor Corp.  and  Dongfeng Motor Group Co.  in the world’s
largest auto market.  
 “By becoming a publicly traded company, Guangzhou Auto
will be freed up to raise more funds,” said  Zhang Jing , an
analyst at Phillip Securities (HK) Ltd. in Shanghai. “The deal
is good for Denway shareholders too, because Guangzhou Auto has
greater business scope and is more competitive.”  
 The Guangzhou, south China-based company said on June 8 it
would raise a bid for the 62 percent of shares in Denway that it
doesn’t already own. It will exchange about 0.47 share for each
share in Denway, up from 0.38 it offered in May, Guangzhou Auto
said. The unlisted carmaker said May 19 its shares are worth as
much as HK$14.49 apiece.  
 Denway  rose 0.3 percent to HK$3.78 yesterday before trading
in the shares was suspended pending the shareholder vote. The
stock, which has declined 23 percent this year, has climbed 6.8
percent since the June 8 announcement of the improved offer.  
 Li Nian Brand  
 Denway holds 50 percent of Guangqi Honda Automobile Co., a
venture with Honda Motor that is adding production of the Accord
Crosstour wagon this year. The venture has announced plans to
introduce the Everus sedan, the first car made under its new Li
Nian brand, in 2011.  
 Buying Denway would create a company with a combined value
of as much as $10.6 billion, based on estimates last month by
Anglo Chinese Corporate Finance Ltd., an adviser on the deal.
Shanghai-listed SAIC Motor’s market capitalization is 118
billion yuan ($17.4 billion).  
 Guangzhou Auto may record a profit of 3.76 billion yuan
this year, without taking into account the offer for Denway
shares, the company said on May 19. Guangzhou Auto’s net income
was 2 billion yuan last year.  
 The automaker aims to boost annual production capacity to
more than a million vehicles by the end of this year, from
606,600 in 2009.  
 Guangzhou Auto also makes Camry sedans and Highlander
sport-utility vehicles in a partnership with  Toyota Motor Corp. ,
the world’s largest automaker, in Guangzhou.  
 -- Sophie Leung ,  Tian Ying . Editors:  Mark McCord ,  Suresh Seshadri .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net 
 Tian Ying  in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        