-- DiCaprio Steals Dreams, Flees Snowy Shootout; Dublin Kids: Film
-- Rick Warner
-- 2010-07-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/dicaprio-steals-dreams-flees-snowy-shootout-one-eyed-brute-rick-warner.html

          
          
             “Whose subconscious are we going
into, exactly?” asks a puzzled Ellen Page in “ Inception .”  
 Her confusion is understandable.  Christopher Nolan ’s movie
about a tormented fugitive ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) who steals
secrets from people’s dreams is an indecipherable thriller that
left me in a stupor.  
 It’s highfalutin bunk, psychobabble propped up by car
chases, shootouts, explosions and other action staples. Nolan
effectively played mind games in “ Memento ” and showed a flair
for blockbusters in his two Batman movies, but his attempt to
combine the two genres is a disaster.  
 The premise is deceptively simple: When we dream we’re
locked in a deep subconscious state that makes our thoughts
vulnerable for pilfering by psychic thieves. The process is
known as “extraction.” The flip side is “inception,” whereby
ideas are planted in, rather than stolen from, a dreamer’s
brain.  
 How this is done is explained ad nauseam in pseudo-
scientific gobbledygook. There’s talk of dreams within dreams,
subconscious security and “finding a way home.” I still have
no idea what they’re talking about.  
 Family Dream  
 What I do know is that Dom Cobb (DiCaprio, looking grim and
disgruntled) is haunted by a dark secret involving his late wife
Mal ( Marion Cotillard , looking gorgeous) and that he desperately
wants to reunite with his two young children, who keep appearing
in his dreams. To get there, he must do a favor for a powerful
businessman ( Ken Watanabe ) -- invade the dreams of Robert
Fischer (Cillian Murphy), the heir to a corporate empire, and
plant an idea that will make him destroy it.  
 Cobb assembles a dream team of subliminal espionage agents:
organizer Arthur ( Joseph Gordon-Levitt ), architecture student
Ariadne (Page, in a wooden role), forger Eames (Tom Hardy) and
chemist Yusuf (Dileep Rao). Together, they embark on an
international adventure -- the movie was shot in six countries,
including Morocco, Japan, England and France -- that takes them
from snowy mountains to tropical streets.  
 All the elements are in play here. There’s a gunfight in
the snow, a car chase in the rain, a van crashing into the water
and people floating in the air like astronauts in space. But no
amount of frenzied activity could awake me from this nightmare.  
 “Inception,” from Warner Bros., is playing across the
U.S. Rating: *1/2  
 ‘Kisses’  
 The Irish accents are so thick in “ Kisses ” that some of
the dialogue includes English subtitles. Fortunately, this
poignant story about two young runaways in Dublin requires
little explanation.  
 Neighbors Dylan (Shane Curry) and Kylie (Kelly O’Neill)
flee abusive homes, hop a barge to Dublin and spend Christmas in
the big city. They skate around a mall on roller sneakers,
listen to a street musician and meet a  Bob Dylan  impersonator
( Stephen Rea ) outside a nightclub. (Dylan’s music is sprinkled
throughout the movie.)  
 They also experience the dark side of the city, narrowly
escaping from a kidnapper and waking up in an alley next to a
dead man. Their shared traumas and triumphs lead to some preteen
bonding -- and a tentative kiss.  
 Writer/director Lance Daly captures the various moods by
switching from black-and-white to color, and Curry and O’Neill
are blissfully natural in their screen debuts.  
 “Kisses,” from Oscilloscope Laboratories, is playing in
New York and Los Angeles. Rating: ***1/2  
 ‘Valhalla Rising’  
 The star of “ Valhalla Rising ” is a one-eyed, scar-faced
ancient warrior who is caged like an animal and forced to fight
to the death, gladiator-style, against other brutes. He kills
his captors and, accompanied by a young boy, journeys to a
strange land where they encounter a group of fanatical
Christians preparing for a holy mission to Jerusalem.  
 Danish director Nicolas Winding Refn, whose last film was
the brilliant “Bronson,” has followed it up with a gorgeous-
looking but empty epic. There’s little dialogue and virtually no
plot, though the appropriately named  Mads Mikkelsen  looks
fearsome with a tattoo-covered body and an iron collar around
his neck.  
 “Valhalla Rising,” from IFC Films, is playing in New
York. Rating: **  

 

What the Stars Mean:

****          Excellent
***           Good
**            Average
*             Poor
(No stars)    Worthless
 
 ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Rick Warner  in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Leonardo DiCaprio in "Inception." Photographer: Stephen Vaughan/Warner Bros. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Shane Curry and Kelly O'Neill in "Kisses." The film was directed by Lance Daly, whose previous films include "Last Days in Dublin" and "The Halo Effect." Source: Oscilloscope Laboratories via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Actor Mads Mikkelsen in "Valhalla Rising." Mikkelsen plays a one-eyed, tattooed mute warrior with supernatural strength. Source: IFC Films via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
