-- Dow Chemical Agrees to Worldwide Sponsorship of Olympics Through 2020
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2010-07-16T21:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/dow-chemical-agrees-to-worldwide-sponsorship-of-olympics-through-2020.html

          
          
             Dow Chemical Co. , the world’s
second-largest chemical maker, agreed to become a worldwide
sponsor of the Olympics through 2020 to gain construction sales
in host cities and boost brand awareness in emerging markets.  
 Dow will be the official chemical company of the Olympics
for the next decade in a partnership with the International
Olympic Committee, the Midland, Michigan-based company said
today in a statement. Terms of the sponsorship weren’t
disclosed.  
 Dow’s sponsorship makes a total of 10 companies paying an
average of $90 million each for the four-year cycle ending in
2014,  Gerhard Heiberg , chairman of the IOC’s Marketing
Commission, said today in an interview in New York. Dow declined
to say how much it will pay for its 10-year commitment. Other
top-tier sponsors include  General Electric Co.  and Visa Inc.  
 Dow’s board approved the sponsorship after  Heinz Haller , an
executive vice president, pitched it as a $1 billion sales
opportunity, mostly for materials used to build facilities in
host cities, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said at an
event in New York with the IOC. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization may reach $180 million, he said in
an interview.  
 “All the things that go into making the equipment, we can
be a big part of that,” Liveris said. “You can be guaranteed
that nothing gets approved by the board of the Dow Chemical
Company unless it generates shareholder value.”  
 Dow Products  
 The deal requires Olympic hosts to give Dow products
preference as long as they meet a project’s technical
requirements and are price competitive in the region,  Bob Plishka , a Dow spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  
 Dow is creating an Olympics unit to coordinate sales from
30 businesses, including insulation, urethane foam for stadium
seats, solar shingles and wire and cable, Liveris said. Dow’s
sponsorship of the games may also increase consumer awareness,
which “is sheer bonus” for a company that mainly sells to
other businesses, he said.  
 Dow also sponsored the Olympics to reach customers in
emerging markets, including Russia, where the 2014 winter games
will be held, and Brazil, which is hosting the 2016 summer
games, Haller said at the New York event. The 2012 summer games
will be in London.  
 “What this does is, it brand associates Dow, like GE and
others, with the games,” Liveris said.  
 Worldwide Sponsor  
 Dow, which got 68 percent of its $44.9 billion of sales
outside North America  last year , is the first new worldwide
sponsor since Acer Inc., the largest supplier of notebook
computers, agreed to a four-year contract that took effect with
the 2010 winter games in Vancouver.  
 The so-called Worldwide Olympic Partners get exclusive
marketing rights in their product category.  
 Liveris first discussed the prospect of a Dow sponsorship
with the IOC over lunch at the Beijing games two years ago, the
IOC’s Heiberg said. The financial crisis delayed a commitment
until the subject was revived over breakfast at the Vancouver
games in February, he said.  
 Dow has been affiliated with the games since it donated
Styrofoam insulation for ice-skating rinks and bobsled runs at
the 1980 winter games in Lake Placid, New York. Dow was an
official supplier to Vancouver’s Olympic organizing committee.  
 Dow fell $1.46, or 5.5 percent, to $25.17 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares  have
declined 8.9 percent this year.  
 BASF SE  is the world’s biggest chemical maker by sales,
according to Chemical & Engineering News. Dow is the biggest
U.S. chemical maker.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        