-- Ecuador Banks Increased Loans Spurring Rebound, Policy Minister King Says
-- Nathan Gill
-- 2010-07-16T14:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/ecuador-banks-increased-loans-spurring-rebound-policy-minister-king-says.html

          
          
             Ecuador’s economy is “in a recovery
phase” and growth picked up in the second quarter as commercial
lending increased and businesses boosted output and added
workers, Economic Policy Minister  Katiuska King  said.  
 Loans to construction, retail and agricultural companies
grew as much as 54 percent in April and May over the same period
a year earlier, fueling an expansion in the country’s non-oil
industries and raising government tax revenue, King said
yesterday in an interview in her offices in Quito.  
 South America’s seventh-biggest economy won’t meet the
government forecast for a 6.8 percent expansion in 2010 and the
estimate will be cut after the steepest decline in oil revenue
since 2007 in the first quarter, King said. Lower-than-predicted
government spending and investment by private oil companies have
also curtailed gross domestic product, she said.  
 “The outlook for the second quarter is more favorable than
the first,” King, a 34-year-old economist, said without giving
exact figures. “There’s been a reactivation in industrial
loans, there’s more production and consumer demand is also
increasing.”  
 Ecuador’s GDP grew 0.33 percent in the  first quarter  from
the previous three-month period and 0.6 percent from the same
period a  year  earlier, according to the central bank. Second-
quarter economic data is scheduled to be published in October.  
 Construction lending rose 29 percent in April and May from
the same two-month period in 2009, according to a report
provided by the minister. Wholesale and commercial retail
credits rose 54 percent, transportation and storage lending
increased 119 percent and loans to agricultural companies rose
38 percent in the same time period, according to the report.  
 Ecuador’s  unemployment rate  fell to 7.7 percent in the
second quarter from 9.1 percent in the three months ending in
March, the National Statistics and Census Institute said
yesterday.  
 “We’re seeing an improvement in credit, and credit is
fundamental in order to generate and reactivate the productive
machine,” King said. “We are in a recovery phase.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        