-- Rangers, Lehman, Movie, Truvo, Tronox,: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-16T13:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/lehman-truvo-tronox-lexington-w-new-york-extended-stay-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             The bankruptcy judge for the  Texas
Rangers  professional baseball club had barely given formal
approval yesterday for auction procedures before secured lenders
filed a motion asking for reconsideration.  
 Unless the lenders, owed $525 million, succeed in
persuading the judge to change his mind, the auction will take
place on Aug. 4, followed the same day by a confirmation hearing
for approval of the team’s Chapter 11 plan.  
 The lenders contend in papers filed yesterday afternoon
that they were ambushed at a hearing on July 13 when they
thought the subject was a motion by the purchaser to compel the
team to move forward with a contract signed just before the
bankruptcy filing on May 24. Instead, the lenders say they were
met in court by the judge who on his own was proposing rules
governing an auction to take place Aug. 4.  
 The lenders say they had no chance to digest the proposed
auction rules. They argue the rules “serve only the purpose of
overlaying the façade of an auction process over a case that has
been fundamentally flawed from the beginning.”  
 The first bid at auction will be a $306.7 million cash
offer from the group that signed a contract just before
bankruptcy. The group includes current team President Nolan Ryan
and sports lawyer  Chuck Greenberg . The pre-bankruptcy contract
price was increased by $2.7 million.  
 The procedures formally approved yesterday by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Michael Lynn require competing bidders to post
a $15 million deposit if they don’t have financing commitments.
Bidders must also be approved in advance by Major League
Baseball.  
 The judge said that approval of a bidder may not be
“unreasonably withheld.” The procedures say that Jim Crane and
Jeff Beck were already approved by the MLB. If either Crane or
Beck is denied approval by MLB, the judge said he would
“rebuttably presume that such denial is not in good faith and
is unreasonable.” Bids initially are due Aug. 3.  
 Evidently concerned that someone may try to sandbag the
process, Lynn said in his order that everyone is “enjoined from
taking any action whatsoever” that would “in any way
frustrate, delay, hinder or interfere with implementation of the
bidding procedures.”  
 The lenders say in their papers yesterday that that
property was transferred into and out of the team on the eve of
bankruptcy, leaving competing bidders in the dark about exactly
what assets and liabilities are being acquired.  
 If the Ryan-Greenberg group are outbid, they will receive a
$15 million breakup fee.  
 The lenders have security interests in the partnerships
that own the team. The lenders opposed the original contract
with the Ryan-Greenberg group and believed there would be a
higher offer if there were an auction on a level playing field.
Under the May contract, the lenders would recover $256 million,
according to the team’s disclosure statement.  
 The Rangers moved from  Washington  to Texas in 1972. The
team defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill Rochelle,
is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The partnership that
owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Updates  
 Swedbank and ISDA File Briefs on Lehman Swaps Appeal  
   Swedbank AB  filed its brief on July 14 appealing a May 5
ruling in the  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . case where U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James M. Peck held that an ISDA agreement
doesn’t allow setting off a post-bankruptcy deposit against a
pre-bankruptcy debt.  
 After the Chapter 11 filing, $11.7 million was deposited
into Lehman’s account at the Stockholm-based bank. Relying on
the ISDA agreement, Swedbank claimed it was entitled to set the
$11.7 million in deposits off against $32 million Lehman owed
from before bankruptcy.  
 Peck disallowed the right of setoff, ruling there wasn’t
the required “mutuality.” Peck relied on the traditional
concept that the company after bankruptcy is a different entity
from the pre-bankruptcy company. Thus, debts from before
bankruptcy cannot be set off against credits after bankruptcy.  
 In its brief, Swedbank argues that setoff is permitted by
2005 amendments to bankruptcy law covering so-called safe-harbor
provisions for swap agreement. The bank argues that Peck’s
ruling “created precisely the kind of uncertainty that Congress
sought to prevent through its enactment” of the safe harbor
provisions allowing setoffs in swaps and similar transactions.
Absent the safe harbor, the automatic stay arising in bankruptcy
would have precluded setoffs.  
 Peck addressed the issue in his 19-page opinion on May 5
and concluded that Congress didn’t intend to end the mutuality
requirement for swap agreements.  
 ISDA refers to the International Swaps and Derivates
Association Inc. ISDA filed a friend-of-the-court brief on the
bank’s side, arguing that Peck’s ruling “undermines the legal
certainty Congress intended to provide swaps market
participants, and threatens to stir up the very turmoil in the
financial markets that Congress intended to prevent.”  
 There won’t be a decision on the appeal before September.
Lehman and the creditors’ committee are to file their briefs by
Aug. 18. The bank can file a reply brief by Sept. 1.  
 Lehman filed a Chapter 11 plan and explanatory disclosure
statement. For details on both, click here and here for the
April 15 and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in  New
York  on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later.  
 The Lehman brokerage operations went into liquidation on
Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage is in the
control of a trustee appointed under the Securities Investor
Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Truvo Files Plan for Aug. 5 Disclosure Hearing  
 Subsidiaries of Truvo Luxemburg Sarl, a Belgium-based
international publisher of directories, missed a June 1 interest
payment on two issues of second-priority notes, sought Chapter
11 protection on July 1, and submitted a reorganization plan on
July 14.  
 The plan was negotiated with holders of 80 percent of the
778 million euros ($1.007 billion) of first-priority senior debt
and holders of 15 percent of the second-priority debt. The
hearing for approval of the disclosure statement explaining the
plan is scheduled for Aug. 5.  
 The senior lenders under the plan are to receive the new
equity plus 600 million euros in new debt. The disclosure
statement estimates the senior lenders’ recovery will range
between 63.8 percent and 84.1 percent.  
 In return for the 595 million euros on two issues of
second-priority notes, the holders are to be given 15 million
euros and warrants for 14 percent of the stock at a 150 million
euros strike price. The estimated recovery is 2.8 percent to 4.8
percent. If the class votes against the plan, they are to
receive nothing.  
 For the 174 million euros on pay-in-kind third-priority
notes, holders will receive warrants for 1 percent of the stock,
said in the disclosure statement to be worth a 0.5 percent
recovery. If the class votes against the plan, they are to
receive nothing.  
 The new debt for the senior lenders is to consist of 350
million euros in first-lien debt, 100 million euros in second-
lien debt, and 150 million euros in pay-in-kind debt.  
 The petition lists assets for 1.04 billion euros against
liabilities totaling 1.67 billion euros.  
 Truvo is the leading directory publisher in Belgium,
Ireland and Romania. Through a joint venture, it is the leading
directory publisher in Portugal.  
 The case is In re Truvo USA LLC, 10-13513, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Movie Gallery Files Plan, $5 Million for Unsecureds  
   Movie Gallery Inc ., the liquidating movie-rental chain,
filed a Chapter 11 plan this week where secured lenders are
giving up $5 million cash to be put in trust for unsecured
creditors.  
 Movie Gallery didn’t yet file a disclosure statement with
details about the plan and the predicted percentage recovery.
Absent the disclosure statement, creditors don’t know the size
of the claims or the proceeds from liquidating assets.  
 The plan will create two trusts, one for secured creditors
and the other for unsecured creditors. The lenders will be paid
cash on confirmation of the plan derived from the liquidation of
their collateral. Other collateral converted to cash later will
go into the lenders’ trust.  
 Under the plan, the term loan lenders won’t assert any
deficiency claims against the trust for unsecured creditors.  
 The plan calls for substantive consolidation where all
assets and all liabilities from the five Movie Gallery companies
are thrown into one pot. Although substantive consolidation is
often a contentious issue, it may not matter much with Movie
Gallery because unsecured creditors might receive nothing at all
absent the give-up by secured creditors.  
 Movie Gallery liquidated the last 1,028 movie-rental
stores. It had some 2,600 stores in operation on filing under
Chapter 11 again in February. The new filing was less than two
years after the previous bankruptcy reorganization. When the new
case began, debt included $100 million on a secured revolving
credit, $394 million on a first-lien facility, and $146 million
in claims held by second-lien creditors.  
   Great American Group Inc . liquidated the last 1,028 stores
by guaranteeing $74.2 million.  
 Movie Gallery operates under the names Movie Gallery,
Hollywood Video and Game Crazy. It had 3,490 stores before the
first bankruptcy, which concluded with a confirmed Chapter 11
plan in May 2007. For details on the second filing, click here.  
 The new case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 10-30696, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District Virginia (Richmond). The
prior case is In re Movie Gallery Inc., 07-33849, in the same
court.  
 Visteon Considering Stock Sale to Unsecured Creditors  
 Auto-parts maker Visteon Corp. prevailed over a group of
dissident unsecured creditors and was given an extension until
Oct. 15 of the exclusive right to propose a Chapter 11 plan. A
company lawyer said in court yesterday that talks are being
conducted about giving unsecured creditors the right to buy
$15.75 million of new stock. To read Bloomberg coverage, click
here and here.  
 Visteon has a confirmation hearing for approval of the
reorganization plan scheduled to begin Sept. 28. The judge set
aside 10 days in view of opposition. In addition to shareholders
and some creditors who are opposed, a group of trade suppliers
say they have enough “no” votes to block approval by the
unsecured creditor class. For details on Visteon’s plan, click
here for the June 15 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For a summary
of the positions by various parties before the judge approved
the disclosure statement, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to  Ford Motor
Co . Visteon was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township,
Michigan-based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for
borrowed money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan,
$862 million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  
 The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Tronox Says Anadarko Throwing a ‘Wrench’ into Case  
 Kerr-McGee Corp. and its parent  Anadarko Petroleum Corp .
are engaged in “a transparent attempt” to “throw a wrench”
into the reorganization, according to papers filed July 14 by
Tronox Inc., the world’s third-largest producer of the white
pigment titanium dioxide.  
 Tronox was responding to a motion from late June where
Kerr-McGee and Anadarko are asking the bankruptcy court to
compel assumption of one of the agreements when Tronox was spun
off from Kerr-McGee, the former parent.  
 Tronox says that the agreement is at the heart of the
lawsuit where it is hoping to recover environmental remediation
costs it was given when spun off from Kerr-McGee in March 2006.
Tronox says the agreement was among the transactions that can be
voided as fraudulent transfers.  
 A hearing on the dispute is set for July 21.  
 Tronox filed a reorganization plan on July 7 where
unsecured creditors with an estimated $471 million in claims
will realize a recovery from 80 percent to 100 percent by
receiving most or all of the new common stock.  
 To deal with environmental claims estimated for as much as
$5.2 billion, the plan will create trusts to be funded with 88
percent of proceeds from the lawsuit against Anadarko. The
trusts will also have $50 million in preferred stock convertible
into 7.2 percent of the stock in five years.  
 The environmental trust will also have warrants for 15.7
percent of the stock, based on total enterprise values between
$1 billion and $1.2 billion. The trust will also have insurance
policies.  
 Personal injury tort claimants, if they accept the plan,
will have 12 percent of the proceeds from the Anadarko lawsuit
plus $7 million cash and insurance policies. If the class
rejects the plan, they will be treated like other unsecured
creditors.  
 General unsecured creditors will have all the new stock,
subject to dilution by the warrants.  
 The company will be financed after bankruptcy by rolling
over the $335 million loan for the Chapter 11 case into a term
loan. There will be a $125 million revolving credit and a
separate term loan up to $150 million to fund the environmental
trust and for working capital.  
 The hearing for approval of the disclosure statement
explaining the plan is set for Aug. 10.  
 In March Tronox mostly defeated a motion by Kerr-McGee and
Anadarko to dismiss the lawsuit. Anadarko acquired Kerr-McGee
for $18.4 billion in August 2006.  
 The Chapter 11 petition by Tronox in January 2009 listed
assets of $1.56 billion against debt totaling $1.22 billion.
Debt includes $213 million on a secured term loan and revolving
credit, $350 million in 9.5 percent senior notes, and a $40.7
million accounts receivable securitization facility. Tronox’s
products are used in paints, coatings, plastics, paper and
consumer products. The operations outside of the U.S. didn’t
file.  
 The case is In re  Tronox Inc ., 09-10156, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Lexington Rubber Group Unsecureds Vote ‘No’ on Plan  
 When  Lexington Precision Corp ., a manufacturer of rubber
components for autos and medical devices, begins the July 21
confirmation hearing to approve the Chapter 11 plan, it will
face opposition from unsecured creditors of the operating
company Lexington Rubber Group who voted “no.”  
 To confirm the plan will require using the so-called
cramdown procedure. The plan calls for the class to be paid in
full over ten quarterly installments.  
 The unsecured creditors’ committee filed papers yesterday
saying that the proposed interest rate, 6.02 percent, is too
low. The plan provides that the judge will determine the proper
interest rate if cramdown is necessary.  
 The committee is urging the judge to impose a 15.5 percent
rate post bankruptcy, the same rate to be given one of the
secured term loans under the plan.  
 In a cramdown, unsecured creditors must be paid in full,
with interest, else lower classes of debt and equity can receive
nothing. All other creditor classes voted for the plan,
including unsecured and subordinated note creditors of the
parent Lexington Precision.  
 The plan will be funded in part by the sale of $22 million
in stock, at $10 a share, to Commercial Finance Services 407
LLC. Subordinated noteholders are being given the chance to
change their votes to “no” because they were only told this
week that their stock recovery would be diluted by 5.4 percent
on account of equity given to the so-called plan investors.  
 The plan reduces debt by more than $50 million while giving
holders of senior subordinated notes an estimated 51 percent
recovery. Subordinated noteholders, owed $34.18 million in
principal, may elect between taking 51 percent in cash or swap
for stock at roughly $20 of debt for each new share.  
 General unsecured creditors of Lexington Precision are
estimated to have an 85.4 percent recovery, according to the
disclosure statement. They are to have 8 percent in cash on
implementation of the plan, with the remainder paid 8.6 percent
in cash at each of the ensuing nine quarters. The disclosure
statement says that the present value of the payments is 80
percent.  
 Alternatively, unsecure creditors can elect to receive 51
percent paid in cash.  
 Asbestos claims are to be paid in full with insurance
proceeds. If insurance is insufficient, the remainder will be
paid over time like general unsecured creditors. Secured debt
under the company’s plan is to be paid in full through revised
credit agreements.  
 Lexington filed under Chapter 11 in April 2008 after
workout negotiations failed with an ad hoc committee of holders
of the senior subordinated notes. The detailed lists of assets
and debt show property with a value of $42 million against
liabilities totaling $41.3 million, including $36.4 million in
secured claims. Revenue in 2008 was $88.5 million. Manhattan-
based Lexington has three plants and more than 650 workers.  
 The case is In re Lexington Precision Corp., 08-11153, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 W Hotel in New York to Change Hands in Chapter 11 Plan  
 Ownership of the  W New York Union Square  hotel in Manhattan
is to change hands under a Chapter 11 plan filed on July 14 by
the hotel’s indirect owners, Hotels Union Square Mezz 1 LLC and
Hotels Union Square Mezz 2 LLC.  
 The plan calls for selling the ownership interest in the
hotel to a partnership led by  Host Hotels & Resorts Inc . Many of
the details regarding the sale and the underlying settlement are
being kept secret.  
 Because all affected creditors are parties to the
settlement, the plan calls for creditors to vote even before
approval of the disclosure statement. The proposed schedule
calls for holding one hearing in late August both to approve the
disclosure statement and to approve the plan with a confirmation
order.  
 An affiliate of Dubai World purchased the hotel in 2006.
The $285 million acquisition of the hotel was financed by a $115
million first mortgage, three mezzanine loans totaling $117
million, and a $53 million equity investment.  
 After the mezzanine loans went into default, an affiliate
of Lubert-Adler Real Estate Funds, which acquired the $20
million of third-tier mezzanine debt, foreclosed the so-called
Mezz 3 entity. Mezz 1 and Mezz 2 filed Chapter 11 petitions in
March to prevent their own foreclosures. Mezz 1 is the owner of
the entity that owns the hotel. Mezz 2 owns Mezz 1, and Mezz 3
in turn owns Mezz 2. Dubai World previously owned Mezz 3
indirectly.  
 The plan allows Union Square Real Holding Corp., the
current owner of the claims against Mezz 2, to purchase an
interest in the newly formed Host entity that will buy the hotel
out of bankruptcy. The settlement and plan will end disputes
over whether USRHC is properly the owner of the Mezz 2 interest.  
 DekaBank Deutsche Girozentrale, currently the owner of the
$60 million in first-tier mezzanine debt against Mezz 1, will be
paid $61 million cash under the plan plus money it advanced
since March to cover debt service on the $115 million first
mortgage.  
 The Lubert-Adler fund will receive $9.25 million cash and a
note on account of its ownership of the Mezz 2 entity that has
$37 million in debt. The fund in turn has an obligation to pay
expenses of the Chapter 11 case, priority claims, claims of
unsecured creditors, and any miscellaneous secured claims.  
 Unsecured creditors at all levels will be paid in full.  
 USRHC paid $3.6 million in March to buy the $37 million
Mezz 2 loan. USRHC made the new investment to protect its $53
million investment in the hotel.  
 The case is In re Hotels Union Square Mezz 1 LLC, 10-10971,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Prepack Coming  
 Nexity Says Prepack on Way for $36 Million in Debt  
   Nexity Financial Corp ., which describes itself as a leading
provider of capital and support services for community banks,
said it reached agreement on a restructuring with holders of 88
percent of $36 million in debt.  
 On account of the 12 percent holding out, the Birmingham,
Alabama-based company said in a statement yesterday that it will
file a so-called prepackaged Chapter 11 case to complete the
restructuring.  
 Nexity say the restructuring will be accompanied by a $175
million private placement of common stock.  
 The company hasn’t filed quarterly reports with the
Securities and Exchange Commission since the quarter ended
September 2008. The bank subsidiary, Nexity Bank, is operating
under a cease and desist order issued by regulators.  
 The stock sporadically traded since May around 15 or 16
cents a share in the over-the-counter market.  
 Briefly Noted  
 Station Casinos Plan Going Out to Creditors for Vote  
 Casino operator Station Casinos Inc. prevailed on the
bankruptcy judge at a hearing yesterday in Reno, Nevada, to
approve the disclosure statement explaining the reorganization
plan. The confirmation hearing for approval of the plan is set
to begin Aug. 27. A company lawyer said in court that
discussions are ongoing with unsecured creditors that could
produce agreement so contested confirmation turn into consensual
confirmation. For Bloomberg coverage of the hearing, click here.  
 Confirmation will be preceded by an auction on Aug. 6 for
some of the casinos. The first bid of $772 million will come
from a group including current owners Frank and Lorenzo
Fertitta. The plan incorporates an agreement structured around
the auction. For details on the auction, the appeal being taken
by unsecured creditors, and the Station Casinos reorganization
plan, click here for the June 11 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.
Station Casinos filed under Chapter 11 in July 2009. It has 13
properties in  Las Vegas  plus five joint ventures. It also
operates casinos for American Indian tribes. Station’s debt was
the result of a leveraged buyout in November 2007 by Fertitta
Colony Partners LLC.  
 The case is In Re Station Casinos Inc., 09-52477, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  
 AbitibiBowater Disclosure Hearing Put Off Again  
   AbitibiBowater Inc ., the largest newsprint maker in North
America, once again put off the hearing to approve the
disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan. Originally
set for July 7, the hearing was pushed back to July 15 and
yesterday was adjourned to a date to be determined, court
records say. Aurelius Capital Management LP and Contrarian
Capital Management LLC believe they have a blocking position
preventing approval of the plan because they own notes
representing more than one-third of unsecured claims against
Bowater. The indenture trustee for notes issued by Abitibi is
opposed to the disclosure statement until it is revised to
explain how value was allocated between Abitibi and Bowater.  
 The disclosure statement tells creditors of each of the
more than 30 affiliated companies how much they could recover.
For details about the plan, click here for the May 25 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  
 AbitibiBowater was formed in October 2007 through a merger
between Montreal-based Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. and Greenville,
South Carolina-based Bowater Inc. Abitibi is a producer of
newsprint, uncoated mechanical paper and lumber. Bowater also
makes newsprint along with papers, bleached kraft pulp and
lumber. The Montreal-based company began reorganizing with 24
pulp and paper mills plus 30 wood-product plants. Revenue in
2008 was $6.8 billion. In Chapter 11 petitions filed in April
2009, the combined AbitibiBowater companies listed assets of
$9.9 billion and debt totaling $8.8 billion as of September
2008.  
 The case is AbitibiBowater Inc., 09-11296, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Extended Stay Has $16.2 Million Net Loss in June  
 Extended Stay Inc., the operator of more than 680 long-term
lodging properties in 44 states, reported a $16.2 million net
loss in June on total revenue of $77.9 million. Operating income
in the month was $4.1 million while interest expense was $17.5
million.  
 Extended Stay’s reorganization plan is scheduled for
approval at a July 20 confirmation hearing. The plan is founded
on a sale for $3.925 billion cash to Centerbridge Partners LP,
Paulson & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP . For details about the
company’s plan and the auction won by the Centerbridge group,
click here to read the June 10 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.
Extended Stay’s Chapter 11 petition in June 2009 listed assets
of $7.1 billion against debt totaling $7.6 billion, including
$4.1 billion in mortgage loans and $3.3 billion in 10 different
mezzanine loans.  
 Based in Spartanburg, South Carolina, Extended Stay says
it’s the largest operator of midpriced extended stay hotels in
the U.S. The properties are nearly all managed by HVM LLC, an
affiliate that didn’t file in Chapter 11.  
 The case is In re Extended Stay Inc., 09-13764, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Proliance Case Convert to Liquidation in Chapter 7  
 The Chapter 11 case of  Proliance International Inc . was
converted this week to a liquidation in Chapter 7. Although the
manufacturer of auto and truck aftermarket heat exchange and
temperature control products had a liquidating Chapter 11 plan
on file, there wasn’t enough cash to cover administrative and
priority claims that must be paid in full. The bulk of the
domestic assets were sold for $15 million cash to Centrum
Equities XV LLC, the company that owns the aftermarket business
spun off in 2008 from Visteon Corp. The Dutch affiliate went for
17.7 million pounds ($27.27 million.)  
 From the asset sales, $410,000 was carved out by secured
creditors to pay unsecured and priority claims. Proliance’s
petition in July 2009 listed assets of $160 million against debt
totaling $134 million, including $40.1 million owing on a
secured term loan and revolving credit. Trade debt amounted to
$51.7 million, according to a court filing. Proliance’s 20
locations outside the U.S. weren’t in bankruptcy. Sales in 2008
were $350 million.  
 The case is In re Proliance International Inc., 09-12278,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Daily Podcast  
 BP, Brown, Lucien Piccard, and Bank Contempt: Audio  
 Legislation passed by the House of Representatives
affecting  BP Plc , an attack on  Brown Publishing Co.  liens, the
filing by the  Lucien Piccard  watch brand, and an important
decision where banks are at risk of being in contempt are
discussed in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg
terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        