-- Telefonica Tops Mexico Airwave Auction Bids to Compete With America Movil
-- Crayton Harrison
-- 2010-07-16T22:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/telefonica-tops-mexico-airwave-auction-bids-to-compete-with-america-movil.html

          
          
             Telefonica SA , seeking to challenge
 America Movil  SAB with high-speed mobile Internet access, placed
the highest bids in a government auction for airwaves that cover
Mexico City, the nation’s capital and largest urban area.  
 Telefonica,  Grupo Iusacell SA  and a joint venture between
 NII Holdings Inc . and Grupo Televisa SA submitted the highest
bids on airwaves elsewhere in the country in the 1.9 gigahertz-
spectrum auction, the Federal Telecommunications Commission
 said . The agency has 30 days to review the auction, which ended
yesterday, and officially declare the winners.  
 The airwaves would allow Madrid-based Telefonica to offer
3G, or third-generation, services such as video downloads in
Mexico City for the first time. That would mean more competition
for current 3G providers  America Movil , the nation’s biggest
mobile-phone carrier, and Iusacell, the third-largest.
Telefonica is No. 2.  
 America Movil , controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , fell
66 centavos, or 2.1 percent, to 31.07 pesos at 4 p.m. New York
time in  Mexico City trading .  Telefonica   dropped  26 cents to
16.17 euros in Madrid.  
 While Mexico City-based America Movil qualified to
participate in the auction, it didn’t place any winning bids.  
 Mexico City Airwaves  
 Telefonica  bid 2.76 billion pesos ($213 million) for 30
megahertz of spectrum in the Mexico City area and an additional
100 million pesos on airwaves in almost all the rest of the
country.  
 Iusacell  had the top bids for other swaths of spectrum in
every available region of Mexico except the capital. The Mexico
City-based company offered a total of 65.4 million pesos for
those airwaves.  
 The bids don’t include 18.9 billion pesos in annual usage
fees that the winners must pay over two decades.  
 NII , based in Reston, Virginia, bid 48.3 million pesos on a
single block of 10-megahertz spectrum in a region that includes
Monterrey, Mexico’s third-biggest city. NII, the smallest of
Mexico’s four wireless carriers, is planning to package its
mobile-phone plans with  Televisa’s  cable and satellite services
to attract more users.  
 A separate auction of 90 megahertz of airwaves in the 1.7
gigahertz spectrum band continued today and has generated 5.18
billion pesos in bids through 78 rounds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        