-- Tesla, Toyota Sign Contract, Begin Developing Electric RAV4 Sport-Utility
-- Bill Koenig
-- 2010-07-16T21:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/tesla-toyota-sign-contract-begin-developing-electric-rav4-sport-utility.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Tesla Motors
Inc. , the electric-car maker, agreed to develop a battery-
powered version of the RAV4 compact sport-utility vehicle that
may go on sale in 2012.  
 Tesla built a prototype that’s undergoing testing and plans
to deliver more this year, the companies said in a statement
yesterday. Chief Executive Officers  Akio Toyoda  of Toyota and
 Elon Musk  of Tesla announced a partnership in May that included
Toyota buying a $50 million stake in the Palo Alto, California-
based company and Tesla purchasing Toyota’s former joint-venture
assembly plant in Fremont, California.  
 The arrangement lets Toyota “go in different directions at
the same time,”  Jim Lentz , president of Toyota’s U.S. sales
unit, said in an interview July 15. “A lot of our electric
vehicle work has been in small, commuter-type cars, because
that’s the direction we think most consumers will want to go. If
that’s not right, we need to have alternatives in play.”  
 Automakers including Toyota are under pressure in the U.S.
and other markets to develop models that consume little or no
petroleum and emit fewer gasses linked to global warming. The
project with Tesla is separate from a previously announced, two-
passenger electric car Toyota plans to sell by 2012.  
 Tesla sells the $109,000 Roadster, an electric sports car
powered by 1,000 pounds of lithium-ion battery cells. The
company aims to make the $57,000 Model S electric sedan in
Fremont by 2012.  
 Battery Pack  
 Tesla said July 10 it will deliver prototypes to  Toyota ,
the world’s largest automaker, without identifying the models.
While Toyota also aims to test an electric Corolla compact
sedan, the RAV4 is better-suited for the weight of Tesla’s
battery pack, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  
 The companies also may develop an electric Lexus RX luxury
SUV, said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
vehicles hadn’t been announced yet.  
 Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, fell $1.65, or 2.3 percent, to $70.75
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading . Tesla
rose 75 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $20.64 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
 Bill Koenig  at   wkoenig@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        