-- ESun's $2.4 Billion Claim Against Macau Casino Project Investors Dismissed
-- Debra Mao
-- 2010-07-16T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/esun-s-2-4-billion-claim-against-macau-casino-project-investors-dismissed.html

          
          
             A Hong Kong court dismissed an  eSun
Holdings Ltd.  unit’s $2.39 billion claim against investors in
its Macau casino project including  Oaktree Capital Management LP 
and Silver Point Capital LP.  
 High Court Judge A.T. Reyes ruled yesterday that East Asia
Satellite Television (Holdings) Ltd.’s attempt to sue them is
“untenable” under Macau and Hong Kong laws. He allowed a
separate claim for $88.6 million against Oaktree and Silver
Point for “inducing breach” of an agreement to proceed.  
 East Asia Satellite last October sued New Cotai LLC, owned
by Oaktree, Silver Point and former  Las Vegas Sands Corp. 
executive  David Friedman , and its directors, accusing them of
systematically hindering the development of their Macao Studio
City project in order to force a renegotiation of the terms of
their joint venture.  
 Calls to  eSun  executives requesting comment weren’t
returned.  Peter Lam , chairman of eSun parent Lai Sun Development
Co., wasn’t available for comment after office hours in Hong
Kong.  
 Friedman, New Cotai’s chief executive, said in a statement
he was pleased the High Court dismissed “so many” of East
Asia’s claims.  
 “We will vigorously defend the remaining claims and are
confident that when the Court has the opportunity to consider
the remaining claims, our position will be vindicated,” he said.  
 Playboy Mansion  
 East Asia Satellite and the group of investors announced
the casino project in 2007. It was slated to include a film
studio and million-square-foot shopping mall, and attracted
Playboy Enterprises Inc., which signed a licensing agreement to
build a Playboy mansion on the site.  
 ESun has sold a one-third stake in East Asia Satellite to
Singapore’s CapitaLand Ltd. for about HK$659 million ($85
million).  
 By November, both Playboy and shopping mall developer
Taubman Group had terminated their agreements.  Taubman  in
October said Asia President  Morgan Parker  resigned, without
saying who would replace him.  
 Friedman,  Skardon Baker ,  Parag Vora  and  Gary Moross  were
among the New Cotai directors sued by East Asia Satellite.  
 The case is East Asia Satellite Television (Holdings) Ltd.
and New Cotai LLC, HCA 2189/2009 in the Hong Kong Court of First
Instance.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        