-- European Stocks Post Weekly Drop After China, U.S. Global Growth Reports
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-07-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/european-stocks-post-weekly-drop-after-china-u-s-global-growth-reports.html

          
          
             European  stocks fell this week as
economic reports in China and the U.S. signaled the global
recovery may falter and as  Bank of America Corp.  and Citigroup
Inc. reported sales that trailed analysts’ estimates.  
 Credit Suisse Group AG,  Deutsche Bank AG  and Barclays Plc
declined more than 3 percent as concerns grew about the
performance of some U.S. banks in the second quarter. Rio Tinto
Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  led raw-material shares to the
largest drop among all 19 industry groups on the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  
 The Stoxx 600 fell 0.8 percent to 248.11, paring last
week’s 5.4 percent rally, the biggest gain in a year. The gauge
remains 8.8 percent below this year’s high on April 15 on
concern that the global economic recovery is losing steam as
indebted European governments slash spending and China takes
steps to tame inflation.  
 “Recent worries about the strength of the economic
recovery have come back to the forefront of investors’ minds,”
said  David Jones , chief market strategist at IG Markets in
London. “The past quarter may well have been good for business
but at the moment the future still looks fragile and it is
difficult to see much real headway being made by stock markets
in the short to medium term.”  
 Growth Eased  
 China’s economic growth eased to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter after the government succeeded in tempering credit
expansion, investment spending and property speculation. The
gain in gross domestic product was less than an 11.9 percent
increase in January-March from a year earlier.  
 In the U.S.,  consumer confidence  slumped in July to the
lowest level in a year, a sign that the biggest part of the
world’s largest economy is losing momentum. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment fell to 66.5 from 76 a month earlier. The gauge was
projected to fall to 74, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 62 economists.  
 “There has been a definite change in perception of the
U.S. being somehow insulated from what is happening in the rest
of the world,” said  Gary Baker , head of European equity
strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch at press briefing in London this
week. “Investors are starting to question those assumptions.”  
 Cash Balances  
 Asset allocators have scaled back their forecasts for
global growth, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Research survey of respondents who together manage about
$530 billion. A net 12 percent of those surveyed predicted a
weaker economy in the next 12 months compared with 42 percent
who said they expected a stronger economy two months ago.
Respondents raised their cash balances from the previous month.  
 National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index lost 1.5 percent and
Germany’s DAX Index retreated 0.4 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
gained 0.5 percent.  
 U.S. companies began reporting quarterly results this week.
Citigroup and Bank of America joined  General Electric Co. 
reporting revenue that missed analysts’ estimates, triggering
declines among European lenders. Companies on the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  are projected to increase profits by 34 percent
in 2010 and 18 percent in 2011, the fastest two-year gain since
1995, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Banks Retreat  
 Credit Suisse lost 3.4 percent. Deutsche Bank, Germany’s
largest lender, slid 3.2 percent. Barclays, the U.K.’s third-
biggest, slipped 5.3 percent.  
 Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company,
declined 5.3 percent and BHP Billiton, the biggest, slid 2.2
percent. Copper traded on the London Metal Exchange for delivery
in three months dropped 4 percent this week.  
 Acergy SA, which designs and delivers oil services in harsh
and remote offshore environments, fell 7.6 percent. BP Plc’s
Macondo well leak in the Gulf of Mexico may delay deepwater
projects beyond 2011, according to Acergy Chief Executive
Officer  Jean Cahuzac .  
 Roche Holding AG  declined 3.9 percent. Avastin paired with
chemotherapy treatments didn’t help patients survive longer than
use of the other drugs alone, according to a U.S. Food and Drug
Administration staff review. FDA advisers will meet July 20 to
evaluate the drug and consider whether use in breast cancer
should be continued, expanded or halted.  
 Halted Flow  
      BP  surged 12 percent, a third straight weekly rally, as the
company temporarily halted the flow of oil from its Macondo well
and as people familiar with the matter said the company is
negotiating the sale of assets in Alaska for up to $11 billion.
BP said yesterday that it is “encouraged” after a pressure
test that halted the spill indicated no sign of an oil leak
after the first 17 hours.  
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s biggest maker of
luxury cars, surged 7.7 percent after saying higher volumes in
2010 will boost profit. The carmaker forecast 2010 sales volumes
will rise by about 10 percent to more than 1.4 million units,
with a full-year profit margin of more than 5 percent expected
for the automobiles segment.  
 Ferrovial SA jumped 9.3 percent after Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board made a A$3.47 billion ($3.05 billion) offer for
toll-road operater Intoll Group.  
 Piraeus Bank SA  surged 16 percent as Greece’s fourth-
largest lender offered to buy government stakes in two banks for
701 million euros. Piraeus Chief Executive Officer  Michalis Sallas  said the bank would purchase 77 percent of Agricultural
Bank of Greece SA and 33 percent of Hellenic Postbank SA to
create Greece’s biggest bank. Greece’s Finance Ministry said it
is studying the offer.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        