-- Euro to Gain 6% as China Moves Reserves Away From U.S., Faros Trading Says
-- Candice Zachariahs
-- 2010-07-16T06:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/euro-to-gain-6-as-china-moves-reserves-away-from-u-s-faros-trading-says.html

          
          
             The euro and the yen are likely to
extend gains as China moves its foreign-exchange holdings away
from U.S. Treasuries and toward liquid bond markets such as
Europe and Japan, said Faros Trading LLC.  
 Europe’s common currency will gain 6 percent to the highest
since April over the next two months after China’s June 19
decision to end a yuan peg to the dollar gave it the flexibility
trim Treasuries holdings, said  Douglas Borthwick , Stamford,
Connecticut-based head of trading at Faros, which executes
currency transactions on behalf of hedge funds and institutional
clients. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said today Europe is a major market
for China to invest its foreign-exchange reserves.  
 “China has made this decision to get more involved in the
more liquid currencies that have very deep bond markets for
example Japan, Europe and certainly the U.K.,” said Borthwick
in a telephone interview. “Essentially that means selling euros
right now doesn’t make a lot of sense.”  
 China’s foreign-exchange  reserves , the world’s largest,
totaled $2.45 trillion at the end of June and the country has
the biggest overseas holdings of U.S. Treasuries.  
 Those holdings mean China is “overweight” the dollar,
said Borthwick. The U.S. accounts for a fifth of China’s trade,
with the European Union making up a further 20 percent and Japan
16 percent, Faros analysts wrote in a report dated July 15.
“They need to change that somewhat,” he said.  
 Yuan Flexibility  
 China bought a net 735.2 billion yen ($8.3 billion) of
Japanese bonds in May, doubling purchases for this year as it
heads for the biggest annual increase since at least 2005,
according to data from Japan’s Ministry of Finance on July 8.  
 Spain benefited this month as China bought “several
hundred million” euros of the nation’s bonds last week, the
Financial Times reported July 12.  
 China said June 19 that it will allow a more flexible yuan,
signaling an end to the currency’s 23-month-old peg to
greenback. It also said “continued emphasis” would be placed
on reflecting market demand and supply with reference to a
basket of currencies.  
 “It’s an opportune time as the U.S. has been calling for a
weaker dollar,” said Borthwick. “If China is trading against a
basket of currencies as they’ve said, certainly by making the
euro and yen go higher, that makes dollar-yuan go lower.”  
 The euro was at $1.2907 as of 7:43 a.m. in London, rising
for a third week in a gain of 2.1 percent. It fell as low as
$1.1877 on June 7, the weakest level since March 2006.  
 The euro will gain toward its 200-day moving average of
$1.3684 over the next two months, Borthwick said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        