-- Ex-Chairman Rivero to Hold Gecina Stake Until He Can Get 120 Euros a Share
-- Esteban Duarte
-- 2010-07-16T10:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/ex-chairman-rivero-to-hold-gecina-stake-until-he-can-get-120-euros-a-share.html

          
          
             Joaquin Rivero , the former Gecina SA
chairman who resigned after sparking a shareholder revolt, said
he will hold onto his 16.1 percent stake in the French landlord
until he can sell it for the 120 euros a share he paid.  
 Rivero, who also held the post of chief executive officer,
said he may have to wait a long time for what amounts to a 58
percent increase in value. Gecina shares closed at 76.60 euros
in Paris trading yesterday.  
 “It’s unlikely that the  shares  will rise in the short term
given the uncertainty surrounding Metrovacesa’s holding in the
company,” Rivero said in an interview at his Madrid office.  
 Metrovacesa SA, Spain’s third-largest property developer by
market value, has broken its covenants on a 3.2 billion-euro
($4.1 billion) syndicated loan backed by its 26.9 percent
holding in Gecina. It also has liabilities that outstrip the
value of its assets, which could prompt lenders to demand
repayment early, according to a May 10  report  by its auditors.  
 “If Metrovacesa’s banks execute its loans, it’s likely
that its Gecina stake will pass to the banks who may sell in the
market,” Rivero said. “As a consequence, the shares will
suffer.”  
 A spokesman for Metrovacesa, who declined to be identified
by name, confirmed that the company’s stake in Gecina has been
pledged as a guarantee against the loan. The developer is in
talks to renegotiate the debt and doesn’t expect the banks to
execute the loan, he said. A Gecina spokeswoman declined to
comment.  
 Debt Struggle  
 Metrovacesa, the Madrid-based real estate company that
reported a loss of 879.8 million euros in 2009, is negotiating
the terms of its loans with banks after the credit-market slump
and falling values made it more difficult to repay debt.  
 Rivero exchanged his stake in Metrovacesa in 2007 for
Gecina shares at a value of 120 euros apiece. He said he wants
to divest after shareholders rejected his plan to expand the
business outside of Europe and attempted to oust him after he
decided to sell a 49 percent stake in his Spanish real estate
company Bami to Gecina for 108 million euros. He resigned as CEO
in May 2009 and left the chairmanship in February of this year.  
 “Gecina is no longer a strategic investment, but a
financial one for me since I can’t expand the company as
initially planned,” said Rivero, who expects to sell his stake
over the next five years. “My plan was to make Gecina a pan-
European real estate company, but the board decided that the
company should focus on France only.”  
 In May, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services cut its rating
for Gecina by one step to BB-, three levels below investment
grade. The firm cited “weak governance practices” after the
purchase of the stake in Bami, the owner of 12 office buildings,
five office developments and two sites in Madrid. Rivero still
owns 35.4 percent of Bami.  
 Gecina shares  trade 13 percent below the net asset value of
88.3 euros a share  reported  by the company in March. The stock
has advanced 46 percent in the last 12 months, giving the
company a market value of 4.8 billion euros. Gecina reached a
peak share price of 145 euros on Dec. 29, 2006.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sharon Smyth  in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        