-- Ex-Goldman Programmer Wants Theft Charges Tossed
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-16T21:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/ex-goldman-programmer-wants-theft-charges-tossed.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  former
computer programmer  Sergey Aleynikov  said a judge should dismiss
charges he stole trading software from the bank because the acts
described by U.S. prosecutors don’t constitute crimes.  
 Aleynikov, 40, was arrested last July and indicted Feb. 11
in what a prosecutor called the “most substantial” theft New
York-based Goldman could recall. The programmer stole a code for
Goldman’s high-frequency trading business on his last day at the
bank in June 2009, prosecutors said in the indictment.  
 “The acts of which Aleynikov stands accused -- copying,
transporting and accessing proprietary computer source code for
an investment bank’s high-frequency trading business -- do not
constitute the federal crimes for which he was indicted,”  Kevin Marino , Aleynikov’s lawyer, said in court papers.  
 He is charged with theft of trade secrets, transportation
of stolen property in foreign commerce and unauthorized computer
access. He faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted.
Aleynikov pleaded not guilty to the charges. U.S. District Judge
 Denise L. Cote  in New York, who is presiding over the case, set
a Nov. 29 trial date.  
 Aleynikov, who started at Goldman in May 2007, left on June
5, 2009. That day he transferred “hundreds of thousands of
lines of source code for Goldman’s high-frequency trading system
from its computer network” to an outside server in Germany,
according to the indictment.  
 Trading Platform  
 That trading platform isn’t “a product that is produced
for or placed in interstate or foreign commerce” as described
by the statute, according to Aleynikov.  
 The allegedly stolen code didn’t constitute “goods, wares,
merchandise, securities or money” as defined by federal law,
Marino said in the filing.  
 “The statute is obviously designed to criminalize the act
of stealing a trade secret embodied in a product that is
produced for, if not actually placed in the stream of
commerce,” Marino said. “Goldman’s high-frequency trading
platform does not meet that description by anyone’s lights.”  
 Janice Oh , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , had no comment. She said prosecutors are expected to
file a reply by July 23.  
 The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 -- With assistance from  Thom Weidlich  and  David Glovin . Editors:
 Andrew Dunn ,  Michael Hytha   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        