-- Ex-U.S. State Department Official Sentenced to Life for Spying for Cuba
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-07-16T17:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/ex-u-s-state-department-official-sentenced-to-life-for-spying-for-cuba.html

          
          
             A former U.S. State Department
official was sentenced to life in prison and his wife got 81
months after they admitted to giving classified information
about U.S. national defense to Cuba for three decades.  
 U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  in Washington heard
arguments for more than an hour before making his ruling.
Prosecutors had suggested life in prison for  Walter Kendall Myers , 73, and 90 months for his wife, Gwendolyn, 72, after both
pleaded guilty in November 2009.  
 Kendall Myers, the great-grandson of  Alexander Graham Bell 
and grandson of longtime National Geographic editor Gilbert
Grosvenor, had admitted to three counts of conspiracy to commit
espionage and two counts of wire fraud, while his wife pleaded
guilty to one conspiracy count.  
 “I see no sense of remorse,” Walton said as he issued the
sentence. “As the government said, you’re proud of the things
you did.”  
 As part of a plea deal, Kendall Myers agreed to a life
sentence and to cooperate in U.S. probes of criminal and
intelligence activity.  
 The couple agreed to forfeit $1.74 million in salary earned
from the U.S. government while spying and surrender an apartment
in Washington, a 37-foot yacht, a car and bank accounts to meet
this obligation, the government has said.  
 Driven by Ideals  
 Wearing a navy blue prison uniform, Kendall Myers told the
judge he and his wife were driven by ideals and didn’t profit by
their espionage. Their spying was a result of the “love and
solidarity” with the Cuban people, Kendall Myers said.  
 “Our overriding objective was to help the Cuban people
defend their revolution,” he said.  
 Walton dismissed Myers’ view of Cuba, citing news reports
of political prisoners and journalists being held in unsavory
prisons. Walton referenced his own family history as the great-
grandson of a slave and grandson of a sharecropper who was able
to move beyond the U.S.’s flaws and become a federal judge.  
 “America is not the devil you believe it is,” Walton told
Myers, scolding him for having given information that could have
led to the loss of American lives.  
 Kendall Myers, who retired in October 2007 as a senior
Europe analyst for the State Department, had access to
classified intelligence reports on Cuba, the Justice Department
said. He viewed more than 200 intelligence reports related to
Cuba in 2006 and 2007, prosecutors claim. He was arrested in
June 2009.  
 ‘Agent 202’  
 Known as “Agent 202,” Kendall Myers has been given a
medal from the Cuban intelligence agency and had met with former
Cuban President  Fidel Castro , prosecutors said. Myers would
receive coded messages from Cuban intelligence by shortwave
radio. The couple allegedly traveled to Brazil, Jamaica, Mexico
and other countries for meetings with Cuban representatives.  
 Myers first traveled to Cuba in December 1978 at the
invitation of a Cuban government official who had made a
presentation at the State Department. He kept a diary of his
two-week trip in which he explicitly declared his affinity for
Castro and the Cuban government, prosecutors said.  
 In 1979, Kendall Myers and Gwendolyn Myers were visited in
South Dakota by the same Cuban official who had invited Kendall
Myers to Cuba. During the visit, the official recruited them to
be clandestine agents for Cuba, and directed Kendall Myers to
pursue jobs at the State Department or the Central Intelligence
Agency to gain access to classified information.  
 “He is a traitor,” Assistant U.S. Attorney G. Michael
Harvey told the judge. “He is finally being held accountable
for his crimes.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Myers, 09-cr-150, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        