-- Mexico May Keep Rate at 4.5% to Fuel Consumer Demand After Prices Decline
-- Jens Erik Gould
-- 2010-07-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/mexico-may-keep-rate-at-4-5-to-fuel-consumer-demand-after-prices-decline.html

          
          
             Mexico’s central bank will probably
keep its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged for an eleventh
straight meeting, matching the bank’s longest pause, after
consumer prices declined for the past three months.  
 Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
 Agustin Carstens , today will keep its overnight rate at 4.5
percent, according to all 17 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
The bank’s decision is scheduled for 10 a.m. New York time.  
 Mexico’s domestic economy is lagging behind Brazil and
Chile as it recovers from last year’s contraction. That has kept
a lid on inflation as surging retail sectors elsewhere in Latin
America threaten to push up prices, said  Douglas Smith , chief
economist for the Americas at Standard Chartered Bank.  
 “Mexico is not seeing any domestically driven demand,”
Smith said from New York. “Brazil and Chile have much more
domestic consumption and investment at the moment.”  
 Mexico’s consumer prices rose 3.69 percent in June from a
year ago, the lowest reading since December. Annual inflation
will end 2010 at 4.66 percent, according to the median estimate
in a central bank survey of economists published July 1.  
 Muted internal demand is keeping prices contained, bringing
annual inflation within the central bank’s target range of 2
percent to 4 percent, according to  Sergio Martin , chief
economist for Mexico at HSBC Holding Plc. That may lead the bank
to keep rates on hold through the end of the year, he said.  
 ‘Weak’ Demand  
 “Domestic demand remains weak, and consumer credit is just
now starting to open up again,” Martin said.  
 The central bank will probably keep the overnight rate
unchanged until March 2011, when it will increase borrowing
costs by a quarter point, according to the median estimate of
analysts in a July 6 survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  
 The central bank kept borrowing costs unchanged at 7
percent for 11 straight months ending in April 2007.  
 “Consumption and private sector investment will continue
to lag, even though they’ve recently shown a certain
improvement,” the bank’s board wrote in its June statement.  
 Consumer prices in the $1.09 trillion economy fell 0.03
percent in June from a month earlier, led by lower costs for
tomatoes, onions and grapes, the central bank said. Core
inflation, which excludes some food and energy prices, was 0.13
percent in June.  
 Investors in Mexico face a “contained risk” that the bank
may cut rates in 2010, even as regional peers such as Brazil and
Chile started raising, said  Alejandro Cuadrado , a Latin America
economist at Societe Generale SA in New York.  
 U.S. Risks  
 “The balance of risks in Mexico in the past couple of
months has changed significantly because of the good inflation
numbers and the increased risks from the U.S.,” Cuadrado said.  
 Sales at U.S. retailers dropped in June for a second month
on consumers’ concern about a lack of jobs and a loss of income,
indicating the economic recovery dissipated heading into the
second half of 2010. Mexico sells about 80 percent of its
exports to the U.S.  
 ING Groep NV’s Mexican pension fund, the nation’s  best
performer  in the past three years, is buying fixed-rate bonds as
it bets that inflation will keep slowing, which may lead the
central bank to cut interest rates, according to a  Enrique Solorzano , who manages 161 billion pesos ($12.6 billion) at the
fund.  
 Chile’s central bank raised its benchmark rate to 1.5
percent at its monthly monetary policy meeting yesterday. Last
month, Chile increased its benchmark rate for the first time
since 2008.  
 Brazil’s central bank last month raised the benchmark Selic
rate 0.75 percentage point for the second consecutive mmeeting,
to 10.25 percent.  
 Retail Sales  
 Mexican retail sales fell 0.1 percent in April from the
same month a year earlier, the country’s statistics agency said
June 18. The agency will report May retail sales on July 21.  
 By contrast, Chile had year-on-year retail sales gains of
22.4 percent in April and 19.1 percent in May, while Brazil’s
retail sales increased 9.1 in April and 10.2 percent in May from
the same year-earlier periods.  
 The central bank estimates Mexico’s economy will grow as
much as 5 percent this year after it  contracted  6.5 percent in
2009, its biggest slump since 1932.  
 Mexico’s gross domestic product expanded 4.3 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier.  
 Regional Growth  
 That compares with Brazil’s 9 percent first-quarter GDP
expansion, Peru’s 6 percent growth and a 1 percent increase in
Chile, which was ravaged by an 8.8-magnitude earthquake in
February.  
 Bank of America forecasts that Mexico’s GDP will grow 4
percent this year, while Brazil’s will expand 7.3 percent and
Peru’s by 6 percent. Chile’s economy will grow 4 percent even as
first-quarter growth was hurt by the earthquake.  
 Mexico’s peso fell 0.4 percent to 12.7762 per dollar as of
5 p.m. New York time yesterday. It has strengthened 2.5 percent
in 2010, the second-best performance against the dollar among
the 16 most-traded currencies.  
 The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due in 2024 fell
7 basis points yesterday to 6.94 percent, according to Banco
Santander SA. The price of the security rose to 127.8 centavos
per peso.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        