-- Mexico Central Bank Keeps Overnight Rate at 4.5% on Deflation, Slow Growth
-- Jonathan J. Levin
-- 2010-07-16T14:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/mexico-central-bank-keeps-overnight-rate-at-4-5-on-deflation-slow-growth.html

          
          
             Mexico’s central bank kept its
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged for an eleventh straight
meeting, matching the bank’s longest pause, after consumer
prices declined for the past three months.  
 Banco de Mexico’s five-member board, led by Governor
 Agustin Carstens , today held its overnight rate at 4.5 percent.
The decision matched the forecasts of all 17 economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg.  
 Mexico’s central bank remains on hold because Latin
America’s second-largest economy is recovering more slowly than
regional peers Brazil, Peru and Chile, which have all started
raising borrowing costs, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Mexico City.  
 “They’re signaling that they’re comfortably on hold,”
Casillas said in a telephone interview. “Banxico doesn’t have a
pretext to lower rates or raise them.”  
 The peso fell 0.8 percent to 12.8708 at 10:27 a.m. New York
time. The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent peso bond due 2024 rose
four basis points to 6.98 percent, according to Banco Santander
SA. The price of the security fell to 127.35 centavos per peso.  
 Consumer prices in the $1.09 trillion economy fell 0.03
percent in June from a month earlier, led by lower costs for
tomatoes, onions and grapes.  
 Annual Inflation  
 That pushed the annual inflation rate down to 3.69 percent
in June, the lowest reading since December. Annual inflation
will end 2010 at 4.66 percent, according to the median estimate
in a central bank survey of economists published July 1.  
 Muted internal demand is keeping prices contained, bringing
inflation within the central bank’s target range of 2 percent to
4 percent, according to  Sergio Martin , chief economist for
Mexico at HSBC Holding Plc. That may lead the bank to keep rates
on hold through the end of the year, he said.  
 “Domestic demand remains weak, and consumer credit is just
now starting to open up again,” Martin said.  
 Still, the bank said in a statement accompanying its
decision today that domestic demand is starting to improve.  
 “Consumption and investment in the private sector continue
at relatively low levels, although the trend seems to be showing
a favorable change,” the bank said.  
 Banamex Survey  
 The central bank will probably keep the overnight rate
unchanged until March 2011, when it will increase borrowing
costs by a quarter point, according to the median estimate of
analysts in a July 6 survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.  
 The central bank kept borrowing costs unchanged at 7
percent for 11 straight months ending in April 2007.  
 Investors in Mexico face a “contained risk” that the bank
may cut rates in 2010, even as regional peers such as Brazil and
Chile started raising, said  Alejandro Cuadrado , a Latin America
economist at Societe Generale SA in New York.  
 “The balance of risks in Mexico in the past couple of
months has changed significantly because of the good inflation
numbers and the increased risks from the U.S.,” Cuadrado said.  
 Sales at U.S. retailers dropped in June for a second month
on consumers’ concern about a lack of jobs and a loss of income,
indicating the economic recovery dissipated heading into the
second half of 2010. Mexico sells about 80 percent of its
exports to the U.S.  
 Chile’s central bank raised its benchmark rate by a half-
point to 1.5 percent at its monthly monetary policy meeting
yesterday. Last month, Chile increased its benchmark rate for
the first time since 2008.  
 Brazil’s central bank last month raised the benchmark Selic
rate 0.75 percentage point for the second consecutive meeting,
to 10.25 percent.  
 Retail Sales  
 Mexican retail sales fell 0.1 percent in April from the
same month a year earlier, the country’s statistics agency said
June 18. The agency will report May retail sales July 21.  
 By contrast, Chile had year-on-year retail sales gains of
22.4 percent in April and 19.1 percent in May, while Brazil’s
retail sales increased 9.1 in April and 10.2 percent in May from
the same year-earlier periods.  
 The central bank estimates Mexico’s economy will grow as
much as 5 percent this year after it  contracted  6.5 percent in
2009, its biggest slump since 1932.  
 Mexico’s gross domestic product expanded 4.3 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier.  
 That compares with Brazil’s 9 percent first-quarter GDP
expansion, Peru’s 6 percent growth and a 1 percent increase in
Chile, which was ravaged by an 8.8-magnitude earthquake in
February.  
 Bank of America forecasts that Mexico’s GDP will grow 4
percent this year, while Brazil’s will expand 7.3 percent and
Peru’s by 6 percent. Chile’s economy will grow 4 percent even as
first-quarter growth was hurt by the earthquake.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        