-- FAA Inspector Urged Gulfstream Be Grounded for Violations
-- John Hughes
-- 2010-07-16T15:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/faa-inspector-urged-gulfstream-be-grounded-in-2008-over-safety-practices.html

          
          
             A U.S. aviation inspector
recommended grounding regional airline  Gulfstream International
Group Inc.  in 2008 for violations including giving pilots too
little rest, deferring plane maintenance and falsifying records.  
 The Federal Aviation Administration inspector’s
recommendation, which hasn’t previously been disclosed, was
rejected by FAA attorneys who concluded there wasn’t enough
evidence to warrant the sanction, agency spokeswoman  Laura Brown 
said. The FAA instead sought a $1.3 million fine and accepted
$550,000 under a settlement announced by Fort Lauderdale,
Florida-based Gulfstream this week.  
 Safety practices at regional carriers, which account for
about half of all scheduled U.S. passenger flights, have drawn
scrutiny from regulators and Congress since a flight operated by
Pinnacle Airlines Corp.’s Colgan unit for Continental Airlines
Inc. crashed in February 2009 in Clarence Center, New York,
killing 50 people.  
 The inspector’s report alleged “intentional” violations
by Gulfstream, showing “an attitude of non-compliance.” The
inspector’s name wasn’t disclosed in the documents.  
 The report is “filled with hyperbole, simply inaccurate
statements of fact and law, and recommendations that are
ludicrous,” said  Andrew Steinberg , a partner at Jones Day in
Washington who represents Gulfstream in the FAA case.  
 The inspector said in his report that in 155 instances,
dispatchers for Gulfstream were scheduled to work longer than 10
hours, which the FAA allows only in emergencies or circumstances
beyond a carrier’s control.  
 ‘False Entries’  
 “Gulfstream International Airlines made false entries into
required records, scheduled flight crewmembers that did not have
the required rest and failed to maintain accurate flight and
rest time records for company pilots,” the inspector also
wrote.  
 Gulfstream, which operates 23 19-seat aircraft and provides
flights for  UAL Corp. ’s United Airlines and  Continental , was
founded in 1988 and has never had a fatal accident.  
 It flies out of Cleveland and Florida cities such as Fort
Lauderdale, including routes popular with business travelers,
such as Fort Lauderdale-Tallahassee, Florida. It carries more
than 500,000 passengers a year, according to an investor
presentation by the company last month.  
 The FAA opened its investigation of Gulfstream in response
to a whistleblower complaint by a former pilot, agency
spokeswoman Brown said.  
 Kenny Edwards said in an interview last year that he was
the former pilot who brought his concerns to the FAA in December
2007 after he was fired for refusing to fly a plane with a
malfunctioning collision-avoidance system. He said he had
already given two weeks’ notice he was leaving Gulfstream at the
time he was fired.  
 Maintenance Deferred  
 The inspector, part of a reviewing team, said seven of nine
aircraft examined had maintenance deferred, including work on an
altitude-alerting system. Six crew members’ records showed they
didn’t receive required rest, and Gulfstream made false entries
into a record system so that short work periods by pilots could
later be entered as a single workday, the inspector said.  
 The inspector recommended “revocation of their air carrier
certificate,” meaning Gulfstream wouldn’t be able to operate
flights until it successfully re-applied for a license.  
 FAA spokeswoman Brown said in an interview yesterday that
the record falsification described in the report was the “only
part of the allegations that would have met the threshold for
revocation.” She said “there wasn’t sufficient proof” of
falsification.  
 “The rest of the charges were sufficient for a civil
penalty, but we couldn’t support a revocation based solely on
the other charges,” Brown said.  
 ‘Not Justified’  
 Grounding of carriers by the FAA is infrequent, according
to Brown, who said she couldn’t immediately provide statistics.
The FAA in March 2005 ordered Platinum Jet Management, the
operator of a corporate jet that crashed that year at New
Jersey’s Teterboro Airport, to halt operations, according to
documents provided by federal prosecutors at the time.  
 Steinberg, Gulfstream’s attorney, said maintenance
deferrals weren’t included in the final penalty, so FAA
“lawyers and higher-ups figured this was not justified.” While
the carrier acknowledged two instances of crew members exceeding
work-hour limits, the inspector misread records in suggesting
there were broader infractions, he said.  
 Dispatchers were never scheduled longer than 10 hours,
though some worked beyond that time under exceptions allowed
under FAA rules, Steinberg said. The inspector confused
notations used to track employee pay as records of pilot flight
and duty time, he said.  
 ‘Largely Incorrect’  
 “We feel as strongly today as ever -- even more so -- that
the findings of the FAA were largely incorrect, but we are a
small company and we don’t have the resources to continue to
fight the federal government,” Gulfstream said in a statement.  
 Gulfstream  had revenue  of $87.3 million last year, a 17
percent decline from the previous year, and a loss of $7.55
million, or $2.45 a share, narrowing by almost half the loss of
$14.8 million, or $5 a share, the year before.  
 The company said in  regulatory filings  this year that it
needed to improve financially or would probably “be unable to
fund continued operations or meet our financial obligations.”  
 Gulfstream shares fell 3 cents, or 3 percent, to 94 cents
yesterday and have dropped 53 percent in the past year.  
 Continental spokeswoman  Mary Clark  declined to discuss the
inspector’s report on Gulfstream. “Safety is Continental’s top
priority, and we expect the same from the regional partners we
work with,” she said.  
 “All of our code-share partners meet FAA and our own high
standards,” United spokeswoman  Megan McCarthy  said in an e-
mailed statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kenny Edwards, a former Gulfstream pilot, poses in Phoenix on Oct. 15, 2009.    Photographer: Reed Rahn/Bloomberg Markets via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
