-- Federated Investors to Buy SunTrust Money Funds With $17 Billion in Assets
-- Christopher Condon
-- 2010-07-16T14:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/federated-investors-to-buy-17-billion-of-money-market-funds-from-suntrust.html

          
          
             Federated Investors Inc ., the third-
biggest manager of money-market funds in the U.S., agreed buy
$17 billion in money fund assets from  SunTrust Banks Inc .  
 Federated will pay as much as $8.75 million immediately and
up to $30 million more over the next five years, the Pittsburgh-
based company said today in filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The assets, overseen by Atlanta-based
SunTrust’s RidgeWorth Capital Management unit, will shift into
six similar Federated funds by year-end.  
 Money-market fund managers have been waiving fees for more
than two years to maintain  positive yields  for investors amid
record low  interest rates  set by the Federal Reserve to combat
declining credit and job losses. The waivers reduce fund
managers’ profits.  
 “This definitely shows there is significant pressure on
midsized providers of money funds to either scale up or consider
outsourcing,”  Peter Crane , president of Crane Data LLC, a
money-fund research firm in Westborough, Massachusetts, said in
a telephone interview.  
 Federated, which managed $272.3 billion in money fund
assets as of March 31, waived $69.5 million in fees in the first
quarter, according to spokeswoman  Meghan McAndrew .  
 SunTrust Bailout  
 “We’re going to be in this business for a long time, and
we’re regularly looking for these kinds of transactions,”
McAndrew said today in a telephone interview.  
 SunTrust, the largest recipient of federal banking rescue
funds among U.S. regional lenders, has unsuccessfully tried to
sell RidgeWorth, which managed about $65.5 billion in total
assets as of March 31. Talks with Henderson Group Plc, the
U.K.’s third-largest independent money manager ended in June
without an agreement.  
 SunTrust was among firms including Bank of America Corp.,
Wachovia Corp. and Legg Mason Inc. that propped up money funds
after losses during the credit crisis. SunTrust’s money fund
bailouts contributed to $555 million in writedowns in the
fourth-quarter of 2007. The bank received $4.85 billion under
the Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 Federated managed $349.9 billion in total assets as of
March 31.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        