-- Fidelity National Settles FTC Charges After CEO Touts Industry `Oligopoly'
-- Inyoung Hwang
-- 2010-07-16T21:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/fidelity-national-settles-ftc-charges-after-ceo-touts-industry-oligopoly-.html

          
          
             Fidelity National Financial Inc. ,
the title insurer that called the industry an “oligopoly,”
agreed to sell assets in Oregon and Michigan to settle a
regulatory review into anticompetitive practices.  
 The insurer’s 2008 purchase of bankrupt rival  LandAmerica
Financial Group Inc.  reduced competition in five Oregon regions,
including the Portland area, and in Detroit, the Federal Trade
Commission said in a  statement  today. The settlement will
require the Jacksonville, Florida-based insurer to sell assets
including data used for underwriting in those regions.  
 “Fidelity’s acquisition of the LandAmerica assets was
anticompetitive in several local markets for the provision of
title insurance information services,” the regulator said in
the statement.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Alan Stinson  said in September 2009
that the declining number of companies selling title insurance
has created an oligopoly, allowing insurers to raise prices to
more profitable levels. The company posted its fourth straight
 quarterly profit  increase in the period ended March 31,
recovering from three straight losses.  
 The insurer  declined  58 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $13.27,
at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange intraday trading. The
stock had declined 1.4 percent this year.  
 The title insurance industry is dominated by No. 1
Fidelity,  First American Financial Corp.,   Stewart Information
Services Corp.  and  Old Republic International Corp.  The four
have a combined 89 percent market share, according to first-
quarter  data  compiled by the  Washington-based American Land
Title Association , an industry group.  
 ‘Best Rate Environment’  
 “We are probably in the best rate environment and best
regulatory environment that we’ve been in for a long time,”
Stinson said Sept. 16 at a Barclays Plc conference. “We are
seeing some rationality in pricing. I think you’d expect that as
the industry consolidates,” he said “The industry has become
more or less an oligopoly.”  
 The settlement requires the company to notify the FTC
before acquisitions of databases in California, Colorado,
Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon and Texas.  
 Title insurers use their records and public documents to
verify a seller is the home’s true owner and that the property
is free from liens. They collect a one-time premium at the
closing of the purchase and pay costs that may arise if someone
disputes the new owner’s right to the property -- claiming, for
instance, that the boundaries weren’t properly recorded.  
 Fidelity spokeswomen  Marcia Danzeisen  didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Inyoung Hwang  in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        