-- Congress's Approval of Finance Bill Shifts Focus to Regulators
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-07-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/financial-bill-s-passage-shifts-focus-of-industry-efforts-to-shape-rules.html

          
          
             U.S. Senate approval of the biggest
overhaul of Wall Street oversight since the Great Depression
will shift the financial industry’s focus to the regulatory
agencies charged with writing rules to implement the measure.  
 The Senate vote that sent the bill to President  Barack Obama ’s desk yesterday ended a year of partisan wrangling among
lawmakers over new protections for consumers and investors in
the wake of the 2008 credit crisis. Obama’s signing of the
measure, which may come next week, is likely to launch a new
round of efforts to reshape the rules to the industry’s liking.  
 “Implementation of this legislation will be challenging
for regulators, and we stand ready to work with them to ensure
that they have the information they need to make certain that
the regulatory process is carried out as effectively and
efficiently as possible,”  Edward Yingling , president of the
American Bankers Association, said in a statement yesterday that
expressed his group’s disappointment with the bill.  
 The 2,300-page measure will create a mechanism for
liquidating failing financial firms whose collapse could roil
markets, a council of regulators to police firms for threats to
the economic system and a consumer bureau at the Federal Reserve
to monitor banks for credit-card and mortgage lending abuses.
Some provisions require study and interpretation by regulators
that could take years to complete.  
 ‘Supervisory Framework’  
 Rob Nichols , president of the Financial Services Forum, a
trade group representing the chief executive officers of the
largest financial firms, said in a statement yesterday that his
group plans to work with regulators “to create a financial
supervisory framework that ensures institutional safety and
soundness and systemic stability, while also fostering the
conditions necessary to fuel economic growth and job creation.”  
 “There’s always that possibility” that Wall Street
lobbyists will succeed in weakening the bill’s provisions during
the rule-making process, Senate Banking Committee Chairman
 Christopher Dodd , who helped write the legislation, said at a
news conference yesterday. Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat, said he
will hold hearings to have regulators explain how they will
implement the new rules.  
 Senate approval of the legislation completed a victory for
Obama, who proposed the regulatory overhaul last year in
response to the 2008 financial crisis sparked by the collapse of
the U.S. mortgage market. The House of Representatives approved
the bill on June 30.  
 ‘Wall Street’s Mistakes’  
 The legislation contains “the strongest consumer-financial
protections in history,” Obama said yesterday at the White
House. “The American people will never again be asked to foot
the bill for Wall Street’s mistakes.”  
 Obama will likely sign the measure into law toward the end
of next week, White House spokesman  Robert Gibbs  said.  
 The bill aims to prevent a repeat of an economic collapse
that led to the failures of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  and
Washington Mutual Inc. and a $700 billion bailout for companies
including  American International Group Inc.  and  Citigroup Inc.   
 Senate passage came less than two hours before the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission announced that Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., which got $10 billion in bailout funds, will pay a
record $550 million to settle claims it misled investors in
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime  mortgages .  
 Tinkering  
 Some analysts saw the bill as tinkering at the edges of
banking practices rather than forcing major changes to the
industry in response to Wall Street excesses that nearly toppled
the global financial system two years ago.  
 “There is little in this legislation that will
fundamentally change the way that Wall Street does business,”
said  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center for Economic and
Policy Research in Washington. “There is probably no economist
who believes that this bill will end the risks of too-big-to-
fail financial institutions. The six largest banks will still
enjoy the enormous implicit subsidy that results from the
expectation that the federal government will bail them out in
the event of a crisis.”  
 To others, such as  Douglas J. Elliott  of the Brookings
Institution, the bill named for Dodd and House Financial
Services Committee Chairman  Barney Frank  empowers regulators to
curb risk-taking and protect consumers in a way that will
mitigate, if not prevent, the next financial crisis.  
 “I am confident that the vicious recession we just lived
through would have been much milder if the Dodd-Frank bill had
been in place a few years ago,” said Elliott, a former
investment banker with  JPMorgan Chase & Co . “The bill will not
eliminate financial crises, but it will make them less frequent
and considerably milder.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Christopher "Chris" Dodd, a Democrat from Connecticut and Senate Banking Committee chairman, talks during a hearing in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about the Senate's passage of the biggest overhaul of financial industry since the Great Depression.
     Senators voted 60-39 today in favor of the top-to-bottom rewrite of rules governing Wall Street firms, ending a year of partisan wrangling over protections for consumers and investors. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Steve Bartlett, president of the Financial Services Roundtable, talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman and Peter Cook about legislation overhauling the financial regulatory system.
     The U.S. Senate passed the biggest overhaul of financial-industry regulation since the Great Depression, sending the bill inspired by the 2008 credit crisis to the White House for President Barack Obama’s signature.(Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Martin Baily, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about legislation to overhaul U.S. financial regulation.
     The Senate voted today to clear the path for final action on the biggest rewrite of Wall Street rules since the Great Depression. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
