-- Financial Transaction Tax Might Fix Host of Ills: Ralph Nader
-- Ralph Nader
-- 2010-07-16T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/financial-transaction-tax-may-fix-host-of-ills-commentary-by-ralph-nader.html

          
          
             Why is Congress running away from a
financial transactions tax? The intensifying struggle on Capitol
Hill over revenue, spending and  deficits , coupled with the
widely felt, reckless behavior of Wall Street, would seem to
provide an ideal atmosphere to debate a major source of new
income that also helps to restrict rampant speculation.  
 A bill to impose such a tax, introduced by Democrat
Representatives  Peter DeFazio  and  Peter Welch , is going nowhere.
Apart from sporadic mentions at various Congressional hearings
on the financial meltdown, this levy, with antecedents back to
Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War, is a taboo subject.  
 Lawmakers will say their hands are full with the struggle
to enact financial reform. Republicans, in their customarily
indiscriminate fashion, say an economic recovery is no time to
increase any taxes, notwithstanding the large budget deficit.  
 Democrats are smarting from the daily lobbying against
their lenient treatment of hedge fund managers’ so-called
carried interest as ordinary income. They aren’t ready to incur
the full wrath of private-equity managers and other industry
executives. This is especially true in an election year when the
Democrats are craving for what is already a declining amount of
campaign money from Wall Street.  
 Nonetheless, the case is a strong one from a taxation,
economic and political standpoint. Growing support among
economists is reawakening an old debate over whether the tax
burden should fall more on work -- the present income and
payroll taxes -- or shift more to a variety of unearned income.  
 Tax Questions  
 In 1909, Winston Churchill made his preference known when
he argued successfully for passage by the British Parliament of
a special tax on gains from land. He said, “Formerly the only
question of the tax gatherer was, ‘How much have you got?’ Now
we also ask, ‘How did you get it?’”  
 In contrast to the more widely discussed value-added tax,
which is opposed by most Republicans and Democrats in Congress,
the financial transactions tax is simpler to administer,
involves a far smaller number of taxpayers, and unlike the
recessive, complex VAT, can raise large sums of revenue.  
 The U.K. has had a  tax on stock trades  for decades, mostly
collected by brokers. The cost of collecting the tax, which is
about 0.05 percent of the revenue stream, is one 10th the cost
of collecting the income tax, which is 0.7 percent. Japan is one
of several other countries with financial transaction taxes.  
 $353 Billion  
 Recently, economists  Dean Baker  and  Robert Pollin  estimated
that the impost could raise $353 billion annually in the U.S.,
based on 2008 trading volumes. This figure was based on a tax of
0.5 percent on stock trading; 0.01 on bonds for each year to
maturity; and a 0.01 percent on trades in swaps for each year of
maturity. If there is a 25 percent reduction in trading volume,
the revenue would be $265 billion annually.  
 High-velocity computer-trading volume is likely to increase
over time, as it has dramatically in the past. Brokers active in
the mid-1950s viewed a 3 million-share day on the New York Stock
Exchange as heavy  volume . Now it can reach 1.5 billion or more
on the exchange, not to mention others such as the  Nasdaq . The
volume in derivatives has gone from almost nothing in 1980 to
$600 trillion in notional value in 2008 and, once over the
recent dip, really shows no sign of appreciably diminishing.  
 The authors recognize that a transactions tax could reduce
the amount of financial trading “in the U.S. economy relative
to the economy’s level of productive activity.” They say that
would be a good development, both damping short-term,
destabilizing speculation and getting investors in “financial
markets to focus more on longer-term investment opportunities.”
This would “more effectively allocate capital” for long-term
growth, they say.  
 International Support  
 Baker and Pollin contemplated many of the expected
criticisms of such a tax, citing a consistently growing
technical literature in this country and abroad, especially in
Germany and the U.K.  
 On the issue of more or less market efficiency, they argue
that computer technology has cut trading costs dramatically
since 1980, so a transactions tax at the suggested levels would
replace those savings just since 1990 in most markets. Markets
today would be no less efficient than back then, when there were
no financial transaction taxes.  
 During the past century, prominent economists have urged
financial transaction taxes.  John Maynard Keynes  was a supporter
in his classic “The General Theory,” believing that increasing
incentives for longer-term investment is more productive than
having capital markets looking like casinos.  
 ‘Tobin Tax’  
 In 1978,  James Tobin  proposed what is now known as the
“Tobin tax” on foreign-exchange transactions. In 1989, both
 Joseph Stiglitz  and  Lawrence Summers , who is now President
 Barack Obama ’s chief economic adviser and a former Treasury
secretary, recommended a securities transaction tax.  
 In 2009, more than 200 economists from universities,
colleges and research centers in our country issued an  open
letter  in support of financial transaction taxes.  
 There is also the serious matter of equity. When people,
who pay 6 percent to 8 percent in sales taxes on necessities
every day, learn that there is zero sales tax on daily purchases
of billions of shares, bonds and derivatives, they
understandably get upset. It doesn’t matter whether they are
conservatives or liberals, or whether it is during normal years
on Wall Street or the recent massive collapse and bailout.  
 If anything, the political climate for a financial
transactions tax has never been better. It is time for a robust
public initiative to replace the stagnant taboos now plaguing
Congress and the White House.  
 ( Ralph Nader  is the founder of Public Citizen and author of
the book “Only the Super-Rich Can Save Us!” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the author of this column:
Ralph Nader at  info@nader.org   
          
          


  


        