-- Congress Should Take Up $90 Billion Bank Tax, Frank Says
-- Alison Vekshin
-- 2010-07-16T17:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/frank-wants-congress-to-take-up-90-billion-bank-tax-to-recoup-bailout-aid.html

          
          
             U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , an
architect of the financial-overhaul bill lawmakers sent to
President  Barack Obama  yesterday, said he wants Congress this
year to take up the White House plan for a $90 billion bank tax
to recoup government bailout funds.  
 Frank said Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  had urged
him not to look for bank fees, which Frank had sought to help
pay for the legislation, because the administration plans a
major push for a broader tax.  
 “I don’t understand how members can say they’re for
reducing the deficit and then let Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan
Chase off the hook entirely. They were the major beneficiaries
of the intervention,” Frank, the chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With Al Hunt” airing
this weekend.  
 Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, also said he plans to
begin writing legislation in September on a system to replace
housing finance companies  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac.  
 The structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as companies
with private shareholders that have a public mission “doesn’t
work,” Frank said. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been under
federal conservatorship since September 2008 because of their
losses.  
 “I’m more on the side now of trying to separate out this
hybrid thing,” Frank said. “I believe we should go out of here
with a version of what’s going to replace it.”  
 Confidence in Regulators  
 On the overhaul bill, Frank said he was worried that if a
Republican wins control of the White House in 2012, the
provisions could be weakened. He said he was confident existing
regulators, including Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
 Sheila Bair  and Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro , would be able to resist efforts by banking lobbyists
to dilute the rules because they helped shape the bill.  
 “They will all be people who have a commitment to make
this thing work the way it was supposed to and who helped draft
it,” Frank said.  
 He said he supported appointing  Elizabeth Warren , chairman
of the congressional panel overseeing the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, as the first leader of the consumer financial
protection bureau the legislation creates at the Federal
Reserve.  
 Frank dismissed a call by House Republican Leader  John Boehner  of Ohio to repeal the bill as “right-wing rhetoric.”  
 He also rejected criticism the legislation would restrict
lending, saying that some forms of credit, including subprime
mortgage loans, should be constrained.  
 Less Credit  
 “Will there be less credit? I hope so,” Frank said. “We
are going to restrict the amount of leverage that can go out
there.”  
 Frank praised former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan ’s comments this week that  George W. Bush ’s 2001 tax
cuts should be allowed to expire at the end of this year.  
 “I think Alan is being an intellectually honest
conservative here,” Frank said. “I honor Alan Greenspan for
breaking with the right-wing, knee-jerk ideology in saying so.”  
 Frank said yesterday’s settlement by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  of U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages was
“clearly an acknowledgement by Goldman that they had done some
things they shouldn’t have done,” Frank said.  
 Goldman Sachs agreed to pay $550 million and change its
business practices to settle the matter.  
 Frank said “it’s possible” he’ll schedule hearings in his
committee to examine the SEC settlement.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Washington at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative Barney Frank, a Democrat from Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, waits to start a House-Senate financial overhaul conference in Washington. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
