-- Gannett Second-Quarter Revenue Misses Analysts' Estimates on Print-Ad Drop
-- Brett Pulley
-- 2010-07-16T20:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/gannett-second-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-on-ad-market-improvements.html

          
          
             Gannett Co. , the owner of USA Today
and television stations, reported second-quarter revenue that
fell short of some analysts’ estimates as print advertising and
circulation sales continued to decline.  
 Revenue dropped to $1.37 billion, Virginia-based company
said today in a statement. That compared with the $1.39 billion
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Shares
tumbled as much as 11 percent, the largest decline in more than
two months.  
 “People were disappointed in the print revenue,” Derek
Maupin, an analyst at Dallas, Texas-based  Hodges Capital
Management , said in an interview. “Media companies have been
getting punished by the market here lately.”  
 Gannett, the first large newspaper publisher to report its
results for the quarter, is watched by investors as an indicator
of how the industry at large is faring. Revenue at Gannett has
declined for  the past three years .  
 Revenue in Gannett’s publishing business fell 6 percent in
the second quarter, while broadcasting and digital sales
increased. The decline in publishing revenue was due in part to
discontinued operations and fluctuating currency prices, said
Chief Financial Officer  Gracia Martore  in a conference call.  
 “Currency dropped off a bit towards the end of June,” she
said. On a pro forma basis, Martore said, publishing revenue was
down 3.8 percent.  
 Profit, excluding some costs, was 61 cents a share, the
company said. That compared with  the 57-cent average  analyst
estimate.  
 Positive Tone  
 “The market overreacted,”  Michael Kupinski , an analyst at
Noble Financial in Boca Raton, Florida, said in an interview.
“The company, on the tone of the call, was actually pretty
positive going into the third quarter. We think, overall, the
numbers are going to be coming up.”  
 Gannett fell $1.61, or 11 percent, to $13.50 at 4:02 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
slid 9.1 percent this year.  
 Net income rose to $195.5 million, or 81 cents a share,
from $70.5 million, or 30 cents, the year before.  
 Gannett also said it had entered into a local advertising
partnership with  Yahoo! Inc.  The agreement calls for Gannett’s
81 local news publishing operations and seven of its broadcast
outlets to sell Yahoo advertising inventory and provide local
content for programming across the Yahoo Web properties.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        