-- Gazprom, Shell Sakhalin Gas Venture Reports Unexpected Profit on Shipments
-- Anna Shiryaevskaya
-- 2010-07-16T07:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/gazprom-shell-sakhalin-gas-venture-reports-unexpected-profit-on-shipments.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom  and  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc ’s Sakhalin-2 venture in Russia posted an unexpected profit
last year after oil and liquefied natural gas shipments beat
targets to offset losses from a delay in the project.  
 Sakhalin Energy , operator of Russia’s only LNG plant, had
net income of $582 million, compared with an expected loss of
$870 million, according to a company presentation to investors
obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 The partners had estimated a loss because a delay in the
start of LNG output forced them to compensate customers for
contracted volumes, two people familiar with the results said,
declining to be identified in line with company policy. The
Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Sakhalin Island-based venture doesn’t report
financial results. Sakhalin is off Russia’s far eastern coast.  
 Sakhalin Energy loaded the first commercial LNG cargo in
March 2009, a delay from a planned start in the second half of
2008. A total of 81 cargoes of LNG and 59 cargoes of oil were
loaded, beating targets for the year by more than 47 percent and
11 percent, respectively.  
 The LNG plant has allowed Russia, the holder of the world’s
biggest gas reserves, to break into Asia Pacific markets and 65
percent of the volume contracted for Japan. LNG is gas cooled to
a liquid for transportation by ship.  
 Capex, Expenses  
 Sales reached $3.6 billion last year and the venture cut
operating expenses to $1.56 billion and capital expenditure to
$846 million from a planned $2 billion and $1.14 billion,
respectively, according to the presentation.  
 Gazprom, the majority shareholder, declined to comment on
the presentation as did  Ivan Chernyakhovsky , a spokesman at
Sakhalin Energy. Vera Surzhenko, a Shell spokeswoman in Russia,
confirmed the venture posted a profit before interest and after
taxes last year. She declined to provide figures or comment on
the presentation.  
 The venture reached operational profitability last year,
Shell Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser said in an interview
with newspaper Vedomosti published yesterday.  
 The Sakhalin-2 partners had $21.3 billion in capital
expenditure from 2001 through 2009, while total costs exceeded
$24 billion, according to the presentation.  
 In 2005, Shell, then majority owner, said the second phase
of the project, which involved year-round crude output and
production of LNG, would cost $20 billion, double an original
estimate. The announcement stirred controversy with the Russian
government, which will share royalties only after the investment
is recouped. The dispute on costs and environmental damage led
the Hague-based company to agree to cede control of the project
to state-run Gazprom in 2006.  
 Russia in 2007 approved a second stage of investment for
Sakhalin-2, allowing the spending of $19.4 billion until 2014.
That level refers to costs which under production sharing
agreement can be recovered.  
 Gazprom controls Sakhalin Energy and Shell owns 27.5
percent. Mitsui & Co. holds 12.5 percent and Mitsubishi Corp. 10
percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        