-- GE Profit Beats Estimates as Health Care, Finance Improve
-- Rachel Layne
-- 2010-07-16T16:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/ge-profit-snaps-seven-quarters-of-decline-as-health-care-finance-improve.html

          
          
             General Electric Co.  profit
increased 14 percent in the second quarter as the finance unit
stabilized and the health-care division improved. The shares
fell as sales dropped and missed analysts’ estimates.  
 Profit from continuing operations rose to $3.3 billion, or
30 cents a share, from $2.88 billion, or 26 cents, a year
earlier, GE said today. That beat the 27-cent average of 12
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “People were prepared for a GE Capital revenue miss,”
said  Jeffrey Sprague , co-founder of Vertical Research Partners
LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “But industrial revenues missed
my estimate by $1 billion and cash flow is down.” He  rates  GE
as “hold.”  
 GE’s profit gain snapped seven declines as Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  stemmed loan losses and boosted reserves
over the past two years at GE Capital, where he said today that
earnings are rebounding. Sales decreased in the technology and
energy divisions.  
 Revenue  slid 4.3 percent to $37.4 billion, trailing the
$38.3 billion average estimate of 9 analysts. The decline was
“right in line with our expectations,” Chief Financial Officer
 Keith Sherin  said in an interview.  
 Shares Fall  
 GE fell  59 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $14.66 at 12:23 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The  shares  dropped
21 percent last quarter as investors shunned stocks tied to the
U.S. financial-overhaul bill and Europe’s sovereign credit
crisis.  
 Net income increased 16 percent to $3.11 billion, the
Fairfield, Connecticut-based company said.  GE Capital  had pretax
profit of about $700 million, Immelt said.  
 Total equipment orders rose 17 percent, while the backlog
held steady at about $172 billion, according to GE. Sales were
damped by a drop in large turbine shipments and in so-called
progress payments for gas turbines, or payments made as the
equipment is being built, GE said. Immelt said he expects to
generate $13 billion to $15 billion in cash from industrial
businesses.  
 “We have positives and negatives,” he said on a
conference call. “We’re still positioned for attractive
earnings growth in 2011.”  
 Immelt said in May that full-year results would exceed GE’s
original December projection, and today repeated his expectation
for an increase in the dividend next year. GE cut its  dividend 
in 2009’s first quarter, the first reduction since the Great
Depression, to preserve cash and shore up the finance division.  
 Earnings Framework  
 GE doesn’t provide per-share forecasts, instead giving
investors a framework of information to devise their own.
Earnings for 2010 will be $1.09 a share, based on the average of
14 analysts’ estimates.  
 The finance unit has improved to the point that GE doesn’t
expect to have to add capital in 2011 as initially planned, CFO
Sherin said. The division’s traditional payout to the parent
company may resume in 2012. GE said previously it expected to
inject about $2 billion into GE Capital in 2011.  
 “GE is, I think, on track again,”  James Hardesty ,
president of Baltimore-based Hardesty Capital Management, which
owned about 508,000  GE shares  as of March 31, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “It’s been reinventing itself
for some time because it became somewhat overdependent on
financial services.”  
 Division Results  
 Profit  in the GE Technology Infrastructure segment fell 11
percent on a 6 percent sales decline because of fewer locomotive
shipments and a drop in the aviation division. Earnings and
revenue increased in the unit’s health-care segment.  
 Growth in health-care equipment orders may continue through
the end of 2010, partly because of easy comparisons with the
first three quarters of 2009,  Steven Winoker , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a note to clients.  
 GE Energy Infrastructure sales fell 9 percent as profit
increased 3 percent, driven by oil and gas equipment and service
contracts. GE is the world’s biggest maker of jet engines,
power-plant turbines and medical-imaging equipment.  
 “By and large the results are good,” said  Joel Levington ,
managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment
Management Inc. in New York. “Technology and Energy
outperformed expectations for sales and profitability. Capital
remains a work in progress -- particularly in real estate, but
data points are building that the worst is behind the unit.”  
 GE Capital Outlook  
 GE Capital profit rose 93 percent, overcoming a drag from
its commercial real estate unit, while comparisons in its other
divisions improved amid an economic recovery. Revenue declined 3
percent as the stronger U.S. dollar ate into overseas sales.  
 While regulators may take months to craft the rules for
Congress’s Wall Street oversight bill, GE has prepared to have
the finance unit supervised by the Federal Reserve and plans to
fill the likely capital requirements, CFO Sherin said on the
conference call.  
 “For the risks that we take in our business, we feel like
we’re very strongly capitalized,” Sherin told investors.
“Whatever is going to come at us, we’re going to be able to
deal with on our own.”  
 GE plans to shrink the unit to as little as 30 percent of
profit as it trims parts of the business, including real estate
and consumer finance, and should reach $500 billion in assets by
the end of this year, Sherin said on the call. That means the
company expects to reach its 2012 goal of $440 billion in net
earning investment, a measure of assets, he said.  
 GE said yesterday it would sell its BAC-Credomatic unit to
Grupo Aval Acciones y Valores SA, Colombia’s biggest financial
holding company, for $1.9 billion.  
 NBC Universal, in which GE plans to sell a majority stake
to Comcast Corp., improved in the quarter, posting gains of 5
percent in revenue and 13 percent in profit. The deal still
requires regulatory approval.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     General Electric Co. chief executive officer Jeffrey Immelt. Photographer: Aaron M. Sprecher/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
