-- Gillard to Call an Australian Election Tomorrow for Aug. 28, ABC Reports
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-16T04:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/gillard-to-set-aug-28-australia-election-after-ouster-of-rudd-abc-says.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will call an Aug. 28 election, the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. said, as she seeks to benefit from a surge in
public support after taking office last month and settling a
dispute with the mining industry.  
 Gillard, 48, will announce the decision after meeting
Governor-General  Quentin Bryce  tomorrow, ABC said, citing
sources in the ruling Labor Party it didn’t name. Bryce must
dissolve parliament before a vote can occur.  
 “I’m not engaging in election speculation,” Gillard told
reporters in Tasmania state today when asked if she would visit
Bryce tomorrow. “Whenever the election is called, there will be
a very clear choice about whether Australia moves forward or
back.”  
 Gillard ousted  Kevin Rudd  as prime minister and Labor Party
leader on June 24. Rudd’s popularity plummeted after he shelved
plans to combat climate change and announced a 40 percent tax on
resource profits, giving  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National
coalition an election-winning lead in some polls.  
 Gillard, who emigrated from Wales when she was four after
contracting bronchial pneumonia, has boosted the government’s
appeal. The Labor Party’s support stood at 52 percent in a
Nielsen poll published July 12. The Liberal-National’s
popularity was 48 percent.  
 “It looks like Labor is going to win but I can’t see them
holding on to the size of their majority,” said  Rick Kuhn , a
political scientist at Canberra-based Australian National
University. “Not unless Tony Abbott puts his foot in it.”  
 Modified Tax  
 Since replacing Rudd, Gillard has scaled back the
government’s proposed tax on companies such as  BHP  Billiton Ltd.,
the world’s largest miner. She has also vowed to open a regional
center to process asylum seekers to curb the rising number of
refugees from Southeast Asia arriving by boat.  
 The Labor Party party has 83 lawmakers in the 150-member
House of Representatives, compared with 63 Liberal-National
coalition lawmakers, according to the parliament’s  Web site .
There are four independents.  
 Gillard announced an agreement with resources companies
July 2, cutting the proposed tax to 30 percent from 40 percent
on coal and iron-ore earnings. Abbott, 52, has said he’ll repeal
any mining tax legislation if he wins power.  
 Climate Plans  
 The prime minister has not yet announced her policy on
climate change, the last of three areas she has vowed to address.
She has said the government will review plans for a carbon-
trading system in 2012, and that the market should set the price
for carbon.  
 Gillard has come under fire for suggesting East Timor
should house the refugee center before fully negotiating the
plan with officials from that country. East Timor’s parliament
on July 12 rejected having the facility there in a unanimous
vote, the ABC said.  
 Abbott, who won two boxing Blues while studying at Oxford
University, is a swimmer, surfer and cyclist who took part in an
“Iron man” competition in March. He won the leadership of the
Liberal Party in December last year, ousting  Malcolm Turnbull , a
former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive, when party lawmakers
rejected Turnbull’s support for Rudd’s climate change plan.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gemma Daley  in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Gillard ousted Kevin Rudd as prime minister  
                       
                         
                           Ian Waldie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Australia's prime minister Julia Gillard. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australia's prime minister Julia Gillard. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
