-- Global Settlements Are Here to Stay, Serious Fraud Director Alderman Says
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-07-16T09:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/global-settlements-in-u-k-fraud-cases-here-to-stay-sfo-s-alderman-says.html

          
          
             U.K. Serious Fraud Office  Director
 Richard Alderman  said recent criticism by judges of its use of
global settlements in corporate prosecutions won’t deter the
agency from using such deals.  
 While prosecutors “haven’t found the right way” of doing
the agreements yet, that won’t stop the SFO from trying,
Alderman said yesterday at a round-table discussion at the law
firm  Eversheds LLP  in London.  
 “Some people have questioned whether or not the criticism
we received on one or two cases means that we won’t do global
settlements again and that is totally wrong,” Alderman said.
“Global settlements are here to stay.”  
 A U.K. judge in March approved the SFO’s first plea bargain
in an overseas corruption probe involving fuel-additives maker
 Innospec Inc. , while saying the agency shouldn’t make such deals
in the future because it doesn’t have power to do so. The SFO’s
proposed 30 million-pound ($46.2 million) plea bargain with BAE
Systems Plc, Europe’s biggest defense company, still must win
court approval.  
 Alderman also said the SFO will continue to rely on
whistleblowers.  
 “We are very committed to getting whistleblowers to come
talk to us,” Alderman said. “The courts are getting their
heads around this, they’re giving us guidance. It’s something we
want to encourage.”  
 In May, the Court of Appeal in London said the SFO
overstepped its power by reaching a sentencing agreement with
Robert John Dougall, a former employee at Johnson & Johnson’s
U.K. unit who was involved in a scheme to bribe Greek doctors.  
 “A plea agreement or bargain between the prosecution and
the defense, in which they agree what the sentence should be, or
present what is in effect an agreed package for the court’s
acquiescence, is contrary to principle,” the judges wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        