-- Goldman's Grand Delusions Finally Hit Reality: Jonathan Weil
-- Jonathan Weil
-- 2010-07-16T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/goldman-s-grand-delusions-finally-hit-reality-jonathan-weil.html

          
          
             At least for one day, after years of
milquetoast responses to financial depredations, the Securities
and Exchange Commission finally can boast that it’s doing God’s
work again.  
 Here’s the real beauty of the SEC’s settlement agreement
yesterday with Goldman Sachs. The next time Goldman Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  goes on television and is
asked by some reporter if Goldman committed securities fraud, as
the SEC alleged, he won’t be allowed to say no.  
 He won’t be able to repeat any of the factually improbable
denials Goldman issued just three months ago after the SEC  sued 
it for ripping off a hapless German bank named IKB as part of a
bond deal called Abacus 2007-AC1. He’ll just have to suck it up
and take the hit. It’s “the right outcome for our firm, our
shareholders and our clients,” as Goldman said in a  press
release  after the settlement was disclosed.  
 More incredibly, the SEC even got Goldman to admit it made
“a mistake,” which might be the strangest thing ever to happen
on Wall Street. Next thing you know, Blankfein will grow wings
for his trip to the heavens, and Goldman will surrender its
charter as a bank-holding company to become a nonprofit center
for religious studies.  
 State of Mind  
 So here’s where the case stands now. The SEC’s April 16
complaint accused Goldman of committing securities fraud with
scienter, meaning with intent or knowledge of wrongdoing. Had it
been so inclined, the SEC could have filed an amended complaint
accusing Goldman of a less serious offense instead, rather than
fraud, as part of its settlement with the bank. The commission
didn’t do that, though.  
 While Goldman isn’t admitting the SEC’s fraud allegations,
it isn’t denying them either, because it’s prohibited from doing
so under the settlement terms. Oh yes, and Goldman will have to
pay $550 million, much of which will go to the investors Goldman
allegedly fleeced.  
 What a difference a few months makes. Back on April 16,
after the SEC filed its suit, Goldman issued a  press release 
wailing that “the SEC’s charges are completely unfounded in law
and fact, and we will vigorously contest them and defend the
firm and its reputation.” Looking back, it seems Goldman made a
typographical error by omitting a few words at the end of that
sentence: “until July 15.”  
 Designed to Fail  
 For those who have forgotten the details, the SEC’s lawsuit
accused Goldman and a vice president,  Fabrice Tourre , of making
false and misleading statements to investors about a synthetic
collateralized debt obligation that was designed to fail. The
SEC said the firm’s main offense was telling IKB that a company
called ACA Management had selected the portfolio of mortgage-
related investments underlying the deal, when actually the
selection process was heavily influenced by Paulson & Co., a
hedge fund that later made $1 billion shorting Abacus.  
 Back in April, Goldman insisted that ACA “selected the
portfolio,” just as its sales materials said.  
 Now, as part of the settlement, Goldman has  admitted  “it
was a mistake for the Goldman marketing materials” to omit
“the role of Paulson & Co. Inc. in the portfolio selection
process and that Paulson’s economic interests were adverse” to
the bond’s investors. The consent decree added: “Goldman
regrets that the marketing materials did not contain that
disclosure.”  
 Pay Attention  
 So all that stuff Goldman told the public in its defense a
few months ago was just PR bluster. As for Tourre, who has
denied the SEC’s allegations, he still hasn’t settled, and now
Goldman has agreed to cooperate with the SEC in its case against
him. He should have paid closer attention to my colleague
 Michael Lewis ’s column two years ago on how to save your skin in
a Wall Street massacre.  
 Rule No. 1: Betray your employer before your employer
betrays you.  
 We can only hope all this will prove to be a humbling
experience for Goldman, though that may be wishful thinking. The
SEC accord, if approved by a federal judge, mandates new
internal bureaucratic hoops for Goldman’s mortgage department to
jump through before issuing mortgage securities in the future.
Each person involved in structuring or marketing mortgage bonds
will be required to attend training seminars on how to comply
with the federal securities laws. (Talk about humiliating.)  
 Hear No Evil  
 What remains to be seen is whether Blankfein and the rest
of Goldman’s bosses can pull off this settlement while at the
same time saving face. Just 11 weeks ago, Blankfein was asked
during a daylong Senate hearing on Abacus and other Goldman
deals if he had any “legal, ethical or reputational” concerns
about any of the activities undertaken by Goldman employees. “I
heard nothing today that makes me think anything went wrong,”
Blankfein said.  
 It’s hard to imagine Blankfein believed that then. It may
take a miracle for the public to accept anything he says at face
value now. That’s a heck of a liability for a company whose most
valuable asset is supposed to be trust.  
 ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        