-- Gold Falls Most in Two Weeks in N.Y. as Euro Strength Trims Haven Demand
-- Pham-Duy Nguyen
-- 2010-07-16T15:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/gold-falls-most-in-two-weeks-in-n-y-as-euro-strength-trims-haven-demand.html

          
          
             Gold futures fell the most in two
weeks as the euro’s rebound against the dollar reduced demand
for the precious metal as a haven against European debt
concerns.  
 The euro was little changed after topping $1.30 for the
first time since May 10. Gold rose to a record $1,266.50 an
ounce on June 21 and surged to all-time highs in euros, U.K.
pounds and Swiss francs last month amid Europe’s fiscal crisis.  
 “There’s continued unwinding of the gold-euro trade,”
said  Frank McGhee , the head dealer at Integrated Brokerage
Services LLC in Chicago. “As the euro firms up, the risk
premium comes off.”  
 Gold futures for August delivery fell $15.70, or 1.3
percent, to $1,192.60 at 10:55 a.m. on the Comex in New York. A
close at that price would mark the biggest drop for a most-
active contract since July 1. Before today, the metal gained 10
percent this year.  
 The euro headed for the third straight weekly gain. Gold
traditionally moves in tandem with the euro as an alternative to
the dollar. This year, as Europe’s sovereign-debt woes unfolded,
investors sold euros and bought gold and dollars as stores of
value.  
 “Gold in euro terms may now be a broken trade,” said
 Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the Suffolk,
Virginia-based Gartman Letter. Earlier this year, he recommended
holding gold priced in other currencies.  
 ‘Running for Exits’  
 Precious metals with wider industrial applications fell on
speculation the U.S. economic recovery will slow, eroding demand
for raw materials.  
 “Investors are running for the exits,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at Lind-Waldock, a
broker in Chicago. “The slowdown in consumer spending and the
worse-than-expected earnings are taking some of the bullishness
out of commodities.”  
 Silver futures for September delivery fell 51.7 cents, or
2.8 percent, to $17.845 an ounce on the Comex.  
 Platinum futures for October delivery dropped $15.70, or 1
percent, to $1,518 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  
 Palladium futures for September delivery declined $13.70,
or 2.9 percent, to $453.50 an ounce.  
 U.S. equities tumbled after General Electric Co., Bank of
America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. reported revenue that trailed
estimates by analysts. Consumer confidence declined in July to
the lowest level in a year.  
 Copper prices dropped as much as 2.7 percent. Energy
futures also declined. The Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw
materials fell as much as 0.9 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pham-Duy Nguyen  in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        