-- Gold ETF Assets May Grow Eightfold in Japan in Year, Mitsubishi UFJ Says
-- Yasumasa Song
-- 2010-07-16T07:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/gold-etf-assets-may-grow-eight-fold-in-japan-in-year-mitsubishi-ufj-says.html

          
          
             Assets held in Japan’s first
exchange-traded funds backed by gold and other precious metals
may increase eight-fold in a year as investors seek to protect
their wealth in the country with the world’s biggest  public debt ,
its largest publicly traded bank said.  
 ETFs backed by gold, silver, platinum and palladium stored
in Japan may hold as much as 30 billion yen ($337 million) in
July next year, from the initial 3.5 billion yen, said Osamu
Hoshi, deputy general manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and
Banking Corp., a member of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc .
The yen-based funds from the bank were listed on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange on July 2.  
 Concern that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis would spread
sent gold to a record high of $1,265.30 an ounce on June 21.
Japanese individuals with combined financial assets of 1,453
trillion yen, as well as institutional investors, may shift some
of their money into physical metals as a store of value, he said.
Public  debt  in Japan amounts to $80,000 a person.  
 About 10 million people who have accounts in securities
houses in Japan for trade in equities and bonds will now have
access to physical metal markets, Hoshi said. Bullion for
immediate delivery was little changed at $1,207.05 an ounce at
4:11 p.m. Tokyo time.  
 Gold held by exchange-traded products advanced to an all-
time high this year and coin sales from mints accelerated as
investors sought to protect their wealth. Gold ETF inflows
surged more than 11-fold in the U.S. and Europe to $11.6 billion
in the second quarter, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  
 Popular Investment  
 “Owning physical gold has become popular among individual
investors,” said Paul Yamamura, a Tokyo-based trader with
Sumitomo Corp. “It appears difficult though for demand to grow
at that pace because it will take time for people to take a
serious look at the market. Traditionally, people don’t like to
invest in commodities in Japan.”  
 The products may also attract pension funds and other
institutional investors seeking alternative investments, Hoshi
said. According to data from the Bank of Japan, assets held by
insurance companies and pension funds reached 466 trillion yen
as of March 31.  
 Investment in commodities represented 0.13 percent of
assets managed by Japan’s corporate pension funds in the year
ended March 31, 2009, data from  Pension Fund Association  show.  
 Mitsubishi Corp. , Japan’s largest trading company, supplies
the metals to the ETFs through imports or recycling. The
products can be exchanged with bars of at least 1 kilogram in
Japan. They are linked to precious metals futures prices on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange, Japan’s largest raw material bourse.  
 Itsuo Toshima , regional director in Tokyo of the World Gold
Council, a producer-funded group, said they recommend Japanese
institutional investors increase gold allocation to as much as 5
percent of their assets for diversification.  
 Bonds to Gold  
 “Institutional investors who put a large part of their
funds into the Japanese government bonds are showing interest in
gold investment,” Toshima said by phone.  
 Japanese investors were net sellers of gold in 2009 for the
fourth straight year, amid higher prices. The volume of sales
reached 30.8 metric tons last year, from 39.4 tons in 2008,
according to London-based research company GFMS Ltd.  
 Gold has gained 10 percent this year, heading for a 10th
straight annual increase, the longest run since at least 1920.  
 Net gold exports by Japan fell 9.6 percent to 54.7 tons
last year from 2008, when yen-based retail prices of bullion
reached 3,339 yen per gram, the highest level since 1983,
according to Japanese bullion house Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo.  
 The Tokyo Stock Exchange, Japan’s largest securities bourse,
also lists precious metal ETFs from London-based  ETF Securities 
and  SPDR Gold , the biggest fund backed by bullion. The Osaka
Securities Exchange lists fund managed by Nomura Asset
Management that invests in gold-linked bonds.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
 Yasumasa Song  in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         Audio Download:  RBC's George Gero Likes Gold ETFs: Audio 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
