-- Goldman Settlement `Victory' Ushers Change to Wall Street
-- Joshua Gallu
-- 2010-07-16T08:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/goldman-sachs-settlement-victory-ushers-in-change-may-cost-wall-street.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ’s $550
million settlement with U.S. regulators yesterday will benefit
the firm by ending three months of uncertainty at an affordable
price. Now the rest of Wall Street begins calculating the cost.  
 Investors welcomed the deal with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, saying the company won key points: The cost
was below some analysts’ estimates of at least $1 billion; no
management changes were required; and Goldman Sachs said the SEC
indicated it doesn’t plan claims related to other mortgage-
linked securities it examined. The stock’s late surge on
anticipation of a settlement yesterday added more than $3
billion to the company’s market value, and it climbed further
after New York trading closed.  
 “You’d have to look at it as a victory for Goldman,” said
 Peter Sorrentino , senior portfolio manager at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati, which manages $13.3 billion including
Goldman Sachs shares. “This takes a cloud off the stock.”  
 In the settlement, unveiled less than two hours after the
Senate passed legislation to reform the financial system and
avert future crises, Goldman Sachs acknowledged that marketing
materials for the 2007 deal at the center of the case contained
“incomplete information.” In its April 16 suit, the SEC
accused the firm of defrauding investors in a mortgage-backed
collateralized debt obligation by failing to tell them that
hedge fund Paulson & Co., which was planning to bet against the
deal, had helped to design it.  
 ‘One of the Worst Days’  
 In its original public response, Goldman Sachs had called
the SEC’s case “unfounded in law and fact” and maintained that
it made all disclosures about the CDOs that should be material
to the “sophisticated” investors who lost money on the deal.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein , who said
the day the suit was filed was “one of the worst days in my
professional life,” said in May that the bank established a
committee to review the firm’s business standards.  
 The settlement requires the New York-based company to
increase training for employees who structure or market mortgage
securities, and to bolster the vetting and approval process.
Those changes will probably lead to a new industry standard for
disclosures in private sales of securities, even to the most
sophisticated investors, analysts said.  
 “All of the firms are going to adjust their internal
standards for this,”  Brad Hintz , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, said in an interview. The agreement
means “a private placement doesn’t absolve you from the
accuracy of the disclosure and you’d better have very, very good
compliance watching what your sales people are saying.”  
 ‘Best Practices’  
 Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s director of enforcement, said at
a news conference yesterday that his agency means to send a
signal to the entire industry.  
 “We would strongly encourage other institutions to adopt
any kinds of best practices that they see across the street in
order to prevent this kind of wrongdoing,” said Khuzami, 53.
“The deterrence, and preventing a fraud before it occurs, is a
much better outcome than picking up the pieces afterwards.”  
 The SEC is still investigating other companies and a range
of products that fueled losses during the financial crisis,
Khuzami said. Last month, the agency sued New York-based ICP
Asset Management LLC on claims that it improperly traded assets
in CDOs it managed. ICP has denied wrongdoing.  
 Goldman Sachs said in a statement that the SEC doesn’t plan
to target the firm over any other products that the agency has
reviewed.  
 Case Against Tourre  
 “We understand that the SEC staff also has completed a
review of a number of other Goldman Sachs mortgage-related CDO
transactions and does not anticipate recommending any claims
against Goldman Sachs or any of its employees,” the firm said.  
 The SEC’s case continues against  Fabrice Tourre , the only
Goldman Sachs employee the agency sued over the CDO. Tourre, 31,
is due to respond to the complaint by July 19. He told a Senate
subcommittee in April that he “categorically” denies the SEC’s
allegations and will fight them in court.  
 The SEC’s deputy enforcement director,  Lorin Reisner , said
Goldman Sachs agreed to cooperate in the case against Tourre,
who is on leave and whose legal expenses are being paid by the
company. Tourre’s attorney,  Pamela Chepiga  at Allen & Overy LLP,
didn’t reply to an e-mail and phone message.  
 Blankfein, 55, and the firm’s other senior managers may not
emerge from the SEC case unscathed, even if they weren’t forced
to resign.  
 ‘Repair Their Reputation’  
 “Within a decent interval, you’re probably going to see a
new CEO,” said  Christopher Whalen , a New York Federal Reserve
official in the 1980s and co-founder of Institutional Risk
Analytics, in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “They still
have a lot of work to do with clients and may face claims and
litigation going forward, and they have to repair their
reputation.”  
 William Cohan , an author and former investment banker who
is writing a book about Goldman Sachs, said that Blankfein’s
position is secure for the “foreseeable future.” Cohan expects
the next CEO will come from an investment banking background
rather than trading, the business drawing regulators’ scrutiny.  
 “I will predict that this is the last trading-oriented CEO
of Goldman Sachs for a while,” Cohan said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television.  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , 55, has previously denied
speculation that the lawsuit was filed to support financial-
reform legislation backed by President  Barack Obama  by casting
Goldman Sachs, the most profitable securities firm in Wall
Street history, as a villain. There was “absolutely no
consideration” to the bill, Khuzami told reporters, hours after
the bill cleared the Senate. Still, the timing raised some
eyebrows.  
 ‘Highly Suspicious’  
 “It is highly suspicious, and it makes the SEC now look
like it is totally politicized,” said  Paul Atkins , a former
Republican SEC commissioner who is now a financial services
consultant.  
 While the SEC touted the $550 million settlement as the
largest it ever levied against a Wall Street firm, it fell short
of some analysts’ estimates for a $1 billion fine. Hintz, who
estimated the agreement will shave 93 cents from the firm’s
 earnings , said he had predicted it would cost $1.05 per share.  
 For Goldman Sachs, the cost represents about 14
days’ worth of earnings, based on first-quarter profit.
Blankfein, who was awarded a record-setting $67.9 million bonus
for 2007, has stock in the firm that’s worth almost $490
million, based on the firm’s last proxy statement.  
 Shares Gain  
 The SEC’s disclosure yesterday that it planned a
“significant announcement” fueled speculation that a deal was
imminent, sending the firm’s shares up 4.4 percent to $145.22 at
the end of New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock,
which had lost more than 20 percent since the suit was filed, is
likely to rise further, said Hintz.  
 “I’m jumping up and down and telling my dad to buy it,”
Hintz said of Goldman Sachs’s stock.  
 Bank of America Merrill Lynch said it upgraded its rating
on Goldman Sachs to “buy” in a note to clients following the
agreement yesterday.  
 The settlement is “palatable” and the “probability of
further action against Goldman Sachs” is much lower, said
analysts led by New York-based  Guy Moszkowski  in the note.  
 Goldman Sachs rose 5.1 percent to $152.59 at 9:50 a.m. in
German trading.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., at a  Business Council in Washington. Photographer: Ron Sachs/Pool via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami talks with Bloomberg's Peter Cook about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to pay a $550 million settlement on claims it misled investors about collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Atkins, a former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission, talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s $550 million settlement with U.S. regulators yesterday and the outlook for the SEC.
     Goldman Sachs was accused by the SEC of defrauding investors in a mortgage-backed collateralized debt obligation by failing to tell them that hedge fund Paulson & Co., which was planning to bet against the deal, had helped to design it. Atkins speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Christopher Whalen, managing director of Institutional Risk Analytics, talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s agreement to pay $550 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
     Whalen speaks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s $550 million settlement with U.S. regulators to settle an SEC lawsuit that alleged the bank misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
     Levitt talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- William Cohan, author of "House of Cards" and a Bloomberg Television contributing editor, talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s agreement to pay $550 million and change its business practices to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
     The penalty is the largest ever levied by the Securities and Exchange Commission against a Wall Street firm, the agency said in a statement announcing the accord today. Cohan speaks with Pimm Fox, Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Suzanne McGee, author of the book “Chasing Goldman Sachs,” discusses Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s $550 million settlement of a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit that alleged the bank misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
     McGee talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Ron Geffner, a partner at Sadis & Goldberg LLP, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s agreement to pay $550 million and change its business practices to settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages. 
     Under the deal, Goldman Sachs acknowledged it made a "mistake" and that marketing materials for the instruments had "incomplete information," the agency said. Geffner speaks from New York. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 15 (Bloomberg) -- Daniel Alpert, managing director at Westwood Capital, discusses Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s agreement to pay $550 million to settle a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit accusing the company of misling investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
     Whalen talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
