-- Google Declines as Research, Marketing Crimp Profit
-- Brian Womack
-- 2010-07-16T20:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/google-s-shares-decline-after-research-marketing-expenses-eat-into-profit.html

          
          
             Google Inc.  dropped the most in
three months in Nasdaq trading after reporting second-quarter
profit yesterday that missed estimates, weighed down by a surge
in spending.  
 Google, grappling with slowing growth for its traditional
search-based ads, has boosted spending on  acquisitions  and staff
to tackle new markets, including mobile marketing and display
advertising. The company’s expenses climbed 22 percent to $4.46
billion in the period, a steeper gain than the 18 percent rise
in the first quarter. The trend marks a shift from Google’s
belt-tightening regimen during the recession, said  Andy Miedler ,
a St. Louis-based analyst for Edward Jones.  
 “Investors want to see the revenue upside fall to the
bottom line,” said Miedler, who  recommends  buying the shares and
doesn’t own them himself. “Google’s is known for its free-
spending ways, and when profitability takes a hit in the
quarter, it reminds investors of the pre-recession Google.”  
 Net income rose 24 percent to $1.84 billion, or $5.71 a
share, from $1.49 billion, or $4.66, a year earlier, the company
said. Excluding some items,  profit  was $6.45 a share, compared
with an average estimate of $6.52 in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts.  
 Google, based in Mountain View, California, fell $34.42,
or 7 percent, to $459.61 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market  trading , the biggest drop since April 16. The shares have
lost 26 percent this year.  
 Why Not?  
 Google is investing in industries that could produce its
next billion-dollar businesses, Chief Financial Officer  Patrick Pichette  said in an interview. Those projects may require more
engineers to develop, he said.  
 “We do have controls -- we do manage the company very
responsibly,” Pichette said. “The question for me is actually
the opposite, which is: In this kind of environment, where we
know the digital economy is really going gangbusters, why would
we not invest?”  
 Unlike profit, Google’s  sales  topped analysts’ projections.
Excluding revenue passed on to partner sites, sales rose to
$5.09 billion last quarter. The average  estimate  was $4.98
billion.  
 Estimates for the quarter declined in the past four weeks
as the dollar strengthened against other currencies, including
the euro, fueling concern that overseas revenue would be worth
less when brought back to the U.S. Analysts cut  sales estimates 
by an average of $21.8 million, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Bonds Approved  
 Google also announced its first bond offering yesterday,
saying its board had authorized the company to borrow as much as
$3 billion to fund general corporate expenses. Moody’s Investors
Service assigned Google an Aa2 rating, the third-highest
investment grade.  
 The ranking reflects Google’s leadership in Internet search
and online advertising, as well as the potential growth from
YouTube, mobile advertising and operating systems, the ratings
company said. Moody’s also cited Google’s $30 billion of cash
and lack of debt.  
 It doesn’t hurt to have the option to use bonds, said
 Richard Lane , an analyst with Moody’s in New York.  
 “To the extent there’s a need for money, whether it’s a
short-term purpose or a long-term purpose, having different
options in terms of how to finance business activity is better
than having fewer options,” he said. “The cost of debt, should
they chose to raise debt, is very attractive right now.”  
 The company’s cash and short-term investments rose to $30.1
billion during the second quarter. Google had $26.5 billion in
the first quarter, up from $24.5 billion at the end of 2009.  
 Using Its Cash  
 Google is putting its  cash  to work to find future sources
of revenue growth. Search-based online ad spending will rise 16
percent this year, then decelerate to 8.6 percent in 2011,
according to EMarketer Inc. of New York.  
 The company increased  its staff  by almost 1,200 to 21,805
people during the quarter. Google, which gained around 300
workers from acquisitions, is using many of the new hires for
sales and engineering projects.  
 Even so, the original search business still accounts for a
majority of Google’s sales and profit.  
 “At some point you would like to see stronger revenue
growth from the non-search areas pick up,” said  Aaron Kessler ,
an analyst with ThinkEquity LLC in San Francisco. He rates the
stock a buy and doesn’t own it.  
 Acquisition Strategy  
 Acquisitions  are a growing part of Google’s expansion
plans. It has announced or completed more than a dozen purchases
this year. The company said on a blog today that it bought San
Francisco-based  Metaweb Technologies , a company with databases
that cover subjects from movies and books to companies.  
 In May, Google wrapped up its $750 million deal to buy
AdMob Inc., a provider of display ads that go on mobile
applications and websites, following approval by the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission.  
 This year, AdMob and Google together may generate more than
$100 million in U.S. mobile-ad sales, according to  IDC  in
Framingham, Massachusetts.  
 Earlier this month, Google said it had agreed to buy
flight-information provider ITA Software Inc. for $700 million.
The deal gives it more of the online travel business and helps
it compete with rivals  Microsoft Corp.  and Kayak.com.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Womack  in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Patrick Pichette, chief financial officer of Google Inc. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Meeks, principal at Winsor Asset Management, talks about Google Inc.'s second-quarter profit reported yesterday, which missed estimates. 
     Google, owner of the world's most popular search engine, said profit was $6.45 a share. Analysts had estimated $6.52, according to a Bloomberg survey. Net income rose 24 percent to $1.84 billion, or $5.71 s share, from $1.49 billion, or $4.66, a year earlier. Meeks talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
