-- Government Delays Wheat Import Tenders as State Stockpiling System Ends
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-07-16T08:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/government-delays-wheat-import-tenders-as-state-stockpiling-system-ends.html

          
          
             Japan, Asia’s biggest wheat buyer,
is delaying import tenders until local flour millers decide how
much they will buy under the system that will replace state
stockpiling on Oct. 1.  
 The  Ministry  of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, which
tenders almost every week to purchase milling wheat from the
U.S., Canada and Australia, skipped buying so far this month
because end-users are cautious about setting their requirements
under the new system, Shirara Shiokawa, director at the
ministry’s grain trade division, said in an interview.  
 The government, which controls overseas purchases and
domestic sales to stabilize supply, will end the state
stockpiling system, which holds 1.8 months of demand. Millers
will have to boost grain inventories to at least 2.3 months, or
about 70 days, in reserves from 15 days previously.  
 The delay in Japanese purchases comes as global wheat
prices have surged 23 percent this month, sapping the appetite
of other Asian buyers, said  Nobuyuki Chino , president of Unipac
Grain Ltd. in Tokyo. “A rally in wheat surprised end-users as
the market tends to decline in July under harvest pressure from
the U.S.,” Chino said by phone today. “They may wait for
better prices to come,” potentially curbing prices, he said.  
 September-delivery wheat declined 0.4 percent to $5.94 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 5:32 p.m. Tokyo time. It
advanced yesterday to the highest since Nov. 23, 2008, on
speculation that a prolonged dry spell will widen crop damage in
Russia, the fourth-largest exporter.  
 Next Tender  
 In the next regular tender, the ministry will buy cargoes
for shipment in September, which are expected to arrive in
Japanese ports in October, Shiokawa said. The date of the next
tender hasn’t been set, he said.  
 “It takes time for us to adjust to the new method,”
Shiokawa said in Tokyo yesterday. The ministry will set wheat-
purchasing plans based on hearings with 96 millers across the
nation about their monthly demand, he said.  
 The ministry has so far bought 1.29 million metric tons of
milling wheat through regular tenders for shipment by Aug. 10
this fiscal year. It purchased 4.26 million tons in the year
ended March 31, 2010.  
 Japan, which imports almost 90 percent of its wheat, hasn’t
changed its March 30 forecast that it will boost imports by 3.3
percent to 4.96 million tons this fiscal year, Shiokawa said.
This would be the largest volume in four years as domestic
production was cut by wet weather last year.  
 State Trading  
 The state trading system was designed to ensure supplies
for consumers and protect domestic growers from competition from
overseas shippers.  
 The government may ease control over imports by raising the
volume it buys under the so-called simultaneous buy and sell
system, or SBS, creating opportunities for exporters such as
Russia and France to sell to Japan.  
 About 7.7 percent of food wheat imports last fiscal year
were through the SBS system, which started in April 2007 and
allows purchases from any country. Food makers and trading
companies jointly bid for grain under the system, which was
introduced to loosen the government’s grip on imports.  
 The agriculture ministry plans to hold regular tenders
three times a month and a SBS tender once a month under the new
stockpiling system, Shiokawa said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        