-- Greenspan Says Congress Should Let Bush Era Tax Cuts Expire (Transcript)
-- 
-- 2010-07-16T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/greenspan-says-congress-should-let-bush-era-tax-cuts-expire-transcript-.html

          
          
             Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
“Conversations With  Judy Woodruff ,” airing today, that
Congress should let former President George W. Bush’s 2001 tax
cuts expire as scheduled at the end of this year.  
 (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  
 JUDY WOODRUFF: Doctor Alan Greenspan, thank you for talking
with us.  
 ALAN GREENSPAN: My pleasure.  
 WOODRUFF: Fresh evidence this week of a slowdown in the
economic recovery. You’ve said recently that you think this is a
typical pause. When do you think the economy is going to start
strongly going again? What is it going to take?  
 GREENSPAN: Well, let me add to that, because I also said in
a quasi-qualification that we have just been through, and indeed
are still in the throes of, the greatest financial crisis
globally ever. We have never seen a shutdown in the availability
of short-term credit of the extent to which that occurred around
the world following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in
September 2008.  
 So this is a different world. I nonetheless do conclude on
the basis of all the balance of the evidence that what we are
going through now is the typical pause that usually is
associated with recovery. But this is not going to be a full-
blown recovery.  
 WOODRUFF: So what do you think the GDP is going to be this
year and next year?  
 GREENSPAN: Well, it is going to be slow. The second
quarter, which looked to be in April fairly robust, now looks to
be down to 2.5 percent growth rate. And we have not yet got all
the figures for the month of June. We are estimating and
guessing at certain of these numbers.  
 But there is no evidence that there is a big pick up
coming, but there is also no evidence of an actual double dip.
So, I think it is sluggish. We should be in the area maybe of 3
percent growth for the rest of this year, after we come out of
this temporary slump.  
 WOODRUFF: And when do you -- what do you think the jobless
rate, which is now 9.5 percent, is going to be a year from now?  
 GREENSPAN: It will be lower, but not all that much lower.
The strange fact about this is that what has kept the -- part of
the reason why the unemployment rate has stayed high, as the
economy has come back, is there was an extraordinary amount of
squeeze going on in the corporate sector having as is invariably
the case a major expansion of output. They were not looking at
their cost structure. They are now, and they squeezed it down to
the point where probably it cannot go much lower.  
 WOODRUFF: So how long before we get back to even 6.5, 7
percent unemployment?  
 GREENSPAN: That is not this year and probably not next.  
 WOODRUFF: Befitting a central banker, you have always --
you have long expressed concern about deficits. They are bigger
now than ever before.  
 Everybody seems to be worried about the long term deficit
issue, but in the short term, there is a debate about whether
something should be done right now. The chief economist for
Goldman Sachs,  Jan Hatzius , for one, is saying the economy
clearly needs a boost now from a government stimulus. Is he
wrong?  
 GREENSPAN: No, he is not wrong, but it is less conclusive
than he stipulates. The reason is we do not really know the full
impact of government stimulus. We can estimate the number of
dollars of GDP which are created by certain government
expenditures, because they are part of our actual GDP. And we
probably could measure it, to a certain extent, the gross
additions to jobs from that.  
 WOODRUFF: Would that argue then for a government stimulus
now?  
 GREENSPAN: No, it would not largely because of the fact
that the argument goes -- and it is again difficult to prove --
that one of the reasons why there is such uncertainty and risk
aversion in the business community is fearful, of the inability
on their part to judge what actions are coming next, and
uncertainty is the death knell of capital markets.  
 WOODRUFF: And you are saying government intervention --
government spending would be uncertainty?  
 GREENSPAN: It is the size of government, it is the issue of
the fact that an ever-increasing part of the American economy in
the last year or so has moved under the aegis of government. And
because it is very difficult to forecast what the actions of
government is going to be, that creates an attitude on the part
of the business community which is retrenchment, and you can see
it everywhere.  
 WOODRUFF: Is the United States more likely, Doctor
Greenspan, to experience a debt crisis like what Greece has gone
through, or a slow growth deflationary crisis like what we see
Japan experiencing?  
 GREENSPAN: It is going to depend very much on what we do
from here. There is a growing fear, political set of pressures
to come to grips with the deficit. I think it going to be far
more difficult than anybody imagines. We are in a state of years
-- a decade -- of major increases in federal spending and major
tax cuts, none of which other than with borrowed money.  
 WOODRUFF: Financial reform -- President Obama is shortly
going to be signing a sweeping reform of financial regulation.
You said last week that unless significant changes were made in
that legislation, that you would be uncomfortable with it
becoming law, in part because these new consumer protections in
your view would reduce lending. But my question is, if everybody
is following the rules, why would you expect that there would be
less financial activity than before?  
 GREENSPAN: Well, first of all, it is quite apparent that if
you are making more stringent rules -- and I am not against
that, I think that is the right thing to do -- you are
restricting the amount of credit. We have not had a single
subprime mortgage loan since January 2008. That market at the
moment is dead.  
 I mean, I have always thought it was very useful to have
what turned out to be a very small, but very effective, subprime
market until securitization took hold in 2004. And it expanded
minority home ownership and I thought that was all to the good.
That has now come to a dead halt.  
 There are a lot of loans made currently by the banking
system which are marginal. These loans will be eliminated and
those marginal loans are largely the lower credit risks, lower
income groups, and people who before would be going to pawn
brokers. I do not think that is necessarily a good trend.  
 WOODRUFF: Can this consumer agency be truly independent if
it is housed inside the Federal Reserve?  
 GREENSPAN: I do not know, but there is a much broader
question here which relates to this. And that is, we in fact do
not know what the consequence of this legislation is going to
be. And the reason that an inordinately large part of it
relegates to the regulators the -- it empowers them to make all
sorts of rules on the principles put forward in the legislation.
That is a very broad discretionary range.  
 And I can go read through the 2,000-plus pages, which I
have not done, and I will learn a lot about what the act is
about. That will tell me a lot less than you might imagine as to
what it actually is mandating, because until you get a
regulation essentially promulgated by the individual regulators
who are empowered to do so, you have no idea what the impact is
going to be.  
 WOODRUFF: Do you believe that this reform legislation
leaves the Fed stronger or weaker?  
 GREENSPAN: Well, it leaves it slightly weaker in the sense
of its structure.  
 And I was very concerned early on, when there was
discussion of taking away supervisory authorities of the so-
called community banks in this country, or some of the
community, I should say, some of the community banks. I thought
that would have been a very bad mistake. They did not do that.  
 And the type of structural changes they made in the nature
of the Federal Reserve banks is minimal. I would prefer they did
not do it, but overall I would say it is a wash. Strangely, the
additional power that the Fed has been given, I had not been in
favor of. I do not think they can actually prevent the next
crisis.  
 What the mistake -- fundamentally, in a regulatory
structure was -- is we misjudged the amount of capital financial
institutions needed to have to meet the provisioning for losses.  
 If we had adequate capital, Lehman Brothers would not have
failed. And if they had, for example, 15 percent capital instead
of 3 percent, and if Bear Stearns had similar numbers, they
would have lost a great deal of money, but it is their
shareholders who would have lost the money, not their lenders.
What causes contagion is default of debt, and if you had
adequate capital, by definition you prevent that.  
 WOODRUFF: Quick follow -- do you think banks today are
adequately capitalized?  
 GREENSPAN: No, I do not. By that, I mean that they are not
lending freely, and the reason they are not lending freely is
they do not believe they are going to get their money back. And
what that is essentially saying is that until you get capital up
-- in my judgment -- a couple of percentage points more than it
is, at least, you are going to find that banks are not going to
feel sufficiently free to lend.  
 And there is -- two concepts here, which I think is
important to recognize. One of regulatory capital; the other is
what the market requires. The market right now is requiring more
than they actually have. Regulators are moving up to where the
market requirements are. They are not there yet, but they will
get there. And that is where we should be because, right now,
our financial institutions are undercapitalized.  
 WOODRUFF: Looking back for a moment, you get asked this
question all the time, are there one or two decisions you made
when you were Fed chairman, in light of this financial crisis,
that you would have made differently?  
 GREENSPAN: Well, the major mistake that I made, in
retrospect -- and indeed, unfortunately, most everybody made
pretty much the same mistake -- is we misjudged what economists
call the negative tail of the probability distribution of risk.
I know that is pretty highfalutin and complex. But it is very
critical, because how you made that judgment as to what that
tail was, and we had no historic evidence of what it was, was
critical that the amount of capital required.  
 We all acknowledge the fact that it was probably what we
called a fat tail, which meant there was more risk than usual.
What we did not recognize is that it was really obese.  
 WOODRUFF: You embraced the tax cuts of former President
Bush,  George W. Bush , in 2001, with the caveat that this hinged
on keeping the deficit under control. In retrospect, do you wish
that you would have spoken out any louder as it became clear
that that deficit was growing?  
 GREENSPAN: Well, I thought I did. In fact, there are all
sorts of hearings. I remember conversations between  Barney Frank 
and myself, where he was saying, in a sense that, do I
understand you essentially saying that effectively unless the
second tranche of the tax cut -- which was then occurring in the
context of deficits -- was adjusted by pay-go -- meaning
financed -- that you would not support it. And the answer was I
would not support it. And I did not support it.  
 The trouble is, there is a very selective reading of
history out there. I mean, I find it unfortunate, but there are
a lot of things that happened which I discussed in great detail
and it sort of is -- my main concern myself is the fact that we
ought to go back and look at the records.  
 You know, for example, the Federal Reserve has been accused
of being lacking in regulation of subprime mortgages. That is
actually not accurate. We did everything that Congress requested
us to do, because we had very little discretion in the
regulatory area. So the Fed is being tarred as being lax in the
subprime area, where in effect we were doing everything that
Congress was asking us to do.  
 WOODRUFF: On those tax cuts, they are due to expire at the
end of this year. Should they be extended? What should Congress
do?  
 GREENSPAN: I should say they should follow the law and let
them lapse.  
 WOODRUFF: Meaning what happens?  
 GREENSPAN: Taxes go up. The problem is, unless we start to
come to grips with this long-term outlook, we are going to have
major problems. I think we misunderstand the momentum of this
deficit going forward.  
 This argument of stimulus versus non-stimulus, in my
judgment, is not a critical issue, in one sense. We are going to
be doing very well if we can keep the deficit to where we are
now projecting it. The notion that we are somehow going to bring
it in far more sharply is just utterly, politically unrealistic.  
 So it is not a question, do you have more stimulus now or
do you have basically a significant contraction in the deficit?
We are going to have continued expansion in government spending
and increasing debt, because there is no evidence that we are
closing the debt -- the gap between receipts and expenditures
yet. And it is going to be very tough to go up against the
momentum that is currently going on.  
 WOODRUFF: So to those interests who say but wait a minute,
if you let these taxes go my taxes go up, it is going to depress
growth?  
 GREENSPAN: Yes, it probably will, but I think we have no
choice in doing that, because we have to recognize there are no
solutions which are optimum. These are choices between bad and
worse.  
 WOODRUFF: You and  Paul Volcker  -- the two men probably most
associated with the Federal Reserve, the central bank in this
country -- seem to have vastly different views now on Wall
Street, the banking industry, financial regulation, the economy.
Has one of you changed or has this always --  
 GREENSPAN: Oh, no, I think we are sticking to our basic
long-term positions. I would disagree with much of what Paul
Volcker is saying, but you have to understand that if you take
the whole array of bankers and central bankers, you will find we
are a largely independent lot and the coming together on all
issues is unlikely. And I would say that in many respects -- I
would say that the vast majority of issues, I say we probably
agree -- we agree.  
 WOODRUFF: Democrats like  Larry Summers ,  Tim Geithner , Paul
Volcker; Republicans like  Henry Paulson , current bank regulators
like  Sheila Bair  - all seem to have a more favorable view of
financial regulation. Is Alan Greenspan the outlier here?  
 GREENSPAN: Partly, but not wholly. I mean, I have changed
my view. In other words, I have essentially argued, as indeed
the vast majority of people in the financial sector are arguing,
that counterparty surveillance, meaning the individual financial
institutions, would have a far better understanding of what the
risks are in lending than the regulators.  
 You have to remember, regulators cannot do all that much
beyond what is done with the internal auditors of banks, the
outside auditors. We bring to bear a broad issue. Now, what has
in fact turned out to be the case is, that fundamental premise
has turned out to be wrong. You cannot, and we were not able to,
do that, and one of the reasons is we had inadequate capital.  
 So does that mean we have to change? Yes, we do have to
change. And I am in favor of change. It is just the question, I
want to make sure that the change makes sense, addresses the
problems that really exist and not those which are fantasy.  
 WOODRUFF: I gather you do not think about this a great
deal, but how do you think the events of the last few years will
change or shape the Greenspan legacy?  
 GREENSPAN: Well, most -- I think other people worry about
that more than I. That is not something over which I have
particular control. And the fact of the matter is, I just go on
doing what I am doing, say what I think is correct.  
 I will be wrong a significant amount of the time because I
am a professional forecaster. If we get it right in forecasting
where the economy is going, or where the markets are going,
better than 50 percent of the time, we are doing very well. And
I do very well. I have done very well since I have been in this
business, for over 60 years.  
 So there were ups and downs. There were adulation that I
was given years back which I did not deserve. There is criticism
I am getting today which I do not deserve. So it balances out.  
 WOODRUFF: Doctor Alan Greenspan, we are delighted to have
you as a guest. Thank you very much.  
 ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  
 THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100 PERCENT ACCURATE AND MAY
CONTAIN MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS
PROVIDED “AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY
KIND. BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND
PROVIDES IT SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE.
BLOOMBERG, ITS SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO
LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS,
PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION
NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A
SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE OF SECURITIES OR (END)
COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT
NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  
 #<617948.54916.2.1.46.17993.25>#
-0- Jul/16/2010 04:00 GMT
  
          
          


  


        