-- Greece Sells 13-Week Bills as Demand for Debt Exceeds Last Week's Auction
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-20T09:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/greece-to-auction-13-week-bills-on-july-20-after-banks-drive-26-week-sale.html

          
          
             Greece sold 1.95 billion euros
($2.53 billion) of 13-week Treasury bills, with demand topping
that at last week’s auction on signs the European Union is
giving the government room to tackle its budget deficit.  
 Demand for the bills was 3.85 times the securities offered,
compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 3.64 times at an auction
of 26-week securities a week ago, data from the debt agency in
Athens showed today. The bills were sold at 4.05 percent. It was
the country’s second sale since it received an EU rescue package
in May to stave off the threat of default.  
 “The last auction nurtured some hope in the market that
Greece can come back,”  Glenn Marci , a fixed-income strategist
in Frankfurt at DZ Bank AG, said before the sale. “They are on
the way back, but it’s going to be a slow and long process.”  
 Greece is trying to restore investor confidence after Prime
Minister  George Papandreou ’s government cut wages, postponed
retirements and raised taxes to trim the euro area’s second-
highest budget deficit. Greece’s largest union for private-
sector workers, the General Confederation of Labor, agreed last
week to a three-year pay deal, which included a pledge to freeze
salaries this year.  
 The debt agency sold the 26-week bills at a yield of 4.65
percent on July 13. About 4.5 billion euros of short-term
securities come due this month and the rollover isn’t fully
funded by the 110 billion-euro lifeline received in May,
according to an International Monetary Fund document.  
 Spain, Irish Sales  
 Spain sold 6 billion euros of bills today, the maximum
target for the auction, as increased demand pushed down the
country’s borrowing costs. Ireland auctioned 1.5 billion euros
of securities. Demand for the 2016 bonds exceeding supply by 3.6
times, compared with 3.1 times at a sale in June.  
 Papandreou, 58, pledged to overhaul Greece’s pension system
to secure the emergency loans from the EU and the IMF. The
government has adopted budget cuts and additional revenue-
raising measures worth more than 14 percent of gross domestic
product since it took office in October. Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said July 5 the country may beat a target to
reduce the budget deficit to 8.1 percent of GDP this year from
last year’s 13.6 percent of GDP, the second highest in the euro
region.  
 Europe’s sovereign debt crisis was triggered after
Papandreou’s Pasok party took power and said the deficit was
more than 12 percent of GDP, twice the previous government’s
estimate. That sparked a surge in bond yields, while Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s credit
rankings to below investment grade.  
 Previous Greek Sale  
 Greece last sold 13-week bills in April 20, when it raised
2.4 billion euros at an interest rate of 3.65 percent, the
highest for the debt of this maturity since an auction on Sept.
30, 2008.  
 Papaconstantinou said on July 13 the government decided not
to roll over 52-week bills because an indicated rate of 7
percent would have been too high. He also said he was satisfied
with the results of that day’s auction, and that the government
may resume bond sales next year.  
 The nation’s unemployment rate rose to an annual 11.9
percent in April from 11.6 percent in March, the  Hellenic
Statistical Authority  said on July 15, as austerity measures
deepened a year-long recession.  
 Over 130,000 more people were without work in April
compared with the same month in 2009, the agency said.  
 Greek  bond yields still show elevated concern among
investors that the country won’t meet its debt obligations. Ten-
year bonds  yield  775 basis points, or 7.75 percentage points,
more than German debt. While that’s down from a record 965 basis
points on May 7, just before a 750 billion-euro EU-IMF regional
rescue was announced, it’s about three times the average of 263
basis points since the Lehman failure.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Greece is trying to restore investor confidence after Prime Minister George Papandreou’s government cut wages, postponed retirements and raised taxes to trim the euro area’s second- highest budget deficit. Photographer: Peter Foley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 20 (Bloomberg) -- Gary Jenkins, head of credit research at Evolution Securities Ltd., talks about sovereign bond sales in Europe and the outlook for bond investments.
     Jenkins speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's 
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
