-- Gross Boosts Government Debt Holdings of Total Return Fund to 8-Month High
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-16T18:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/gross-boosts-government-debt-holdings-of-total-return-fund-to-8-month-high.html

          
          
             Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond  fund  at  Pacific Investment Management Co. , boosted
holdings of government-related debt to the highest level in
eight months as the U.S. recovery showed signs of waning.  
 The $234 billion  Total Return Fund ’s investment in the debt
was increased to 63 percent of assets in June, from 51 percent
in the previous month, according to the  website  of Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco. Emerging-market debt was raised
to 10 percent, breaking the 9 percent record set last month. The
firm doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in portfolio
holdings.  
 Gross said last month that most investors are ignoring
signs that “global financial market returns stand at the
threshold of mediocrity.”  
 Bond markets pricing in depression and government securities
yielding less than 3 percent are a “forerunner of returns to
come,” Gross wrote in his July investment outlook posted June
30. Stocks face “low single-digit” prospects as well because
they haven’t adjusted to the slower growth that will come from
deleveraging, regulation and de-globalization, he wrote.  
 An overdependence on debt has the global economy entering a
period of fundamental transformation that Gross calls the “new
normal.”  
 Brazil, China  
 Emerging-market nations such as Brazil and China, with
stable levels of government debt and expanding middle classes,
should continue to thrive, Gross says. Mounting deficits and
tighter financial regulation will damp growth in the U.S. and
the euro zone for the next three to five years, he says. Gross
cut non-U.S. developed-nation debt to 3 percent in June, the
lowest since October 2009.  
 U.S. government debt continues to draw strong demand,
pushing the two-year  note yield  to a record low of 0.5765
percent today, on evidence of a slowing global economic recovery
and low inflation.  
 Federal Reserve policy makers at their meeting last month
noted that risks to the recovery had increased, according to
minutes released on July 14. They trimmed their outlook for
inflation this year to a range of 1 percent to 1.1 percent, down
from 1.2 percent to 1.5 percent in April, and cut the central
tendency forecast for 2010 growth to a range of 3 percent to 3.5
percent, from 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent in April.  
 ‘Risk of Deflation’  
 “The economic outlook had softened somewhat and a number
of members saw the risks to the outlook as having shifted to the
downside,” the Federal Open Market Committee minutes said. “A
few participants cited some risk of deflation,” they said.  
 Treasuries gained 5.8 percent in the first six months of
the year, the biggest rally since 1995, when the Fed was
preparing to cut interest rates to encourage growth, according
to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The 10-year yield
dropped below 3 percent on June 29 for the first time since
April 2009.  
 The fund has returned 13 percent in the past 12 months,
beating 63 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 2.07 percent over the past month, a
performance superior to 80 percent of competitors. Pimco, a unit
of Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, managed $1.07 trillion of
assets as of March 31.  
 Gross held the Total Return Fund’s mortgage composition in
June steady for the fourth consecutive month at 16 percent and
its high-yield holdings at the 3 percent level for the second
straight month. It reduced its net cash-and-equivalent position
to negative 15 percent from negative 4 percent, the lowest since
April 2009.  
 Pimco’s U.S. government-related debt category can include
conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency debt,
interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options and bank
debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
the firm’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        