-- ICICI, Indian Lenders May Grow 2.5-Times as Economy Expands, Kochhar Says
-- Ruth David
-- 2010-07-16T07:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/icici-indian-banks-may-grow-2-5-times-as-economy-expands-kochhar-says.html

          
          
             ICICI Bank Ltd. , India’s second-
largest lender, and its local rivals may grow to 2.5 times their
size in five years as economic growth accelerates, Chief
Executive Officer  Chanda Kochhar  said.  
 “The Indian banking sector can grow at at least twice the
GDP growth rate,” Kochhar said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in London. “I’m actually quite confident that India
can very soon get to the double digit growth rates, so move from
maybe a 9 percent  growth rate  in the GDP in the immediate future
and then get on to 10 percent.”  
 ICICI aims to tap rising demand for credit as Kochhar
forecasts that Indian companies are likely to invest $250
billion in manufacturing and infrastructure projects in the next
three years. India’s growth potential is attracting overseas
rivals such as Standard Chartered Plc, which listed shares in
what may be the U.K. bank’s most profitable market this year.  
 “Clearly there is a huge growth opportunity awaiting us,”
Kochhar, 49, said yesterday.  
 Still, the entire  Indian banking system ’s 33.1 trillion
rupees ($707 billion) in outstanding loans last month is less
than the $895 billion in loans that Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd., the world’s largest lender, had at the end of the
first quarter. Mumbai-based ICICI reported total loans of about
$39 billion as of March 31.  
 Stock Performance  
 Shares of ICICI  rose 1.9 percent to 898.2 rupees as of
12:22 p.m. local time today, extending its gains for the past
year to 30 percent. That compares with a 47 percent advance in
India’s Bankex index, which tracks 14 lenders, in the past 12
months.  
 The South Asian nation’s $1.2 trillion economy has averaged
8.5 percent growth in the past five years. Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government, which forecasts expansion exceeding
10 percent in the next five years, has doubled its target for
infrastructure spending in the country to $1 trillion in the
five years starting 2012.  
 ICICI, whose  overseas  branches account for 25 percent of
its total loans, will also aim to extend more credit to
companies in Europe since banks there may have less capital to
commit following the global financial crisis, Kochhar said.  
 The Indian bank will be part of syndicated-loan deals,
instead of buying assets or entering joint ventures, she said.  
 ICICI is “very well capitalized” to handle growth in the
next few years and doesn’t need to add to its  capital base  “any
time soon,” said Kochhar. The bank’s capital adequacy ratio is
19 percent, she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Francine Lacqua  in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net ;
 Ruth David  in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        