-- Thierry Henry Says Winning With Red Bulls Will Sell Soccer to New Yorkers
-- Barry Rothbard
-- 2010-07-16T19:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/thierry-henry-says-red-bulls-winning-will-sell-mls-soccer-to-new-yorkers.html

          
          
             Thierry Henry , the four-time English
Premier League scoring champion, says he will sell soccer to New
Yorkers by winning.  
 Henry signed with Major League Soccer’s New York Red Bulls
this week. The 32-year-old striker was on the 1998 French World
Cup winning team and has scored more goals than any player in
London club Arsenal’s 97-year history.  
 He follows  David Beckham  -- the former English national
team captain -- in coming to MLS. Beckham joined the Los Angeles
Galaxy in 2007, and helped the team reach the championship game
last season, where it lost to Real Salt Lake.  
 “The most important thing for me is if the team plays well
and we can manage to compete and contend for the title, then I
would like to think the people would come along,” Henry said in
an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  
 Henry will make his debut for the Red Bulls in an
exhibition match against North London club Tottenham Hotspur on
July 22 at Red Bulls Arena in Harrison, New Jersey.  
 Henry, who grew up outside of Paris, was signed by AS
Monaco in 1990. He joined Italian Serie A team Juventus, where
he played for one season before joining Arsenal, where he played
until 2007. He had been with FC Barcelona since.  
 MLS Commissioner  Don Garber  said one of his biggest goals
of adding Henry to the league, now in its 15th season, is to
boost soccer in the area.  
 “He’s coming to the United States to hopefully help grow
the game in our country, but very, very importantly in the New
York and Metropolitan area, a market we’ve been challenged to
build the sport for over the past decade,” Garber said in a
telephone interview.  
 Red Bulls Attendance  
 League spokesman Sean Dennison said MLS doesn’t release
attendance figures. The website  MLS Daily  says the Red Bulls are
sixth out of 16 teams in league attendance, averaging 16,277
people per game this season, a 43 percent increase over last
year.  
 Team spokesman Brian Tsao said in an e-mail that Henry’s
signing increased ticket sales, but wouldn’t disclose how much.  
 While adding players like Beckham and Henry are helpful,
MLS can’t solely rely on European players to boost its
popularity, said  Robert Tillis , managing partner of Inner Circle
Sports LLC. The North American Soccer League attempted to build
itself with foreign players, then folded in 1984.  
 “You can’t put all your eggs in the go buy lots of high-
priced players basket and hope that it works,” said Tillis,
whose firm advises sports franchises on major financial
transactions. “We’ve seen that model before in soccer and it
didn’t work.”  
 Beckham Signing  
 Garber said Beckham, who is out for the season after
injuring his Achilles while on loan to Inter Milan, raised the
league’s international profile.  
 “MLS is clearly far more respected and has a much broader
awareness than we ever had before David Beckham came to the
league,” Garber said. “This league is on the map in the
world.”  
 Alexi Lalas , a former U.S. national team player and Galaxy
general manager, said Henry is a good signing for the league and
the Red Bulls.  
 “This was a calculated risk, but one that I think will pay
off on and off the field, at least in the short term,” Lalas
said in a telephone interview. “He still has the ability to
make an impact.”  
 The Red Bulls have never won an MLS championship. The team
is in second place in the MLS Eastern Conference with an 8-5-2
record.  
 “I want to see Red Bulls successful, not me successful,”
Henry said. “That’s the most important thing to me.”  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Barry Rothbard  at   brothbard@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Thierry Henry of the New York Red Bulls practices with the team for the first time at in Montclair, New Jersey. Photographer: Chris Trotman/Getty Images for New York Red Bulls  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
