-- IPhone Users Unite to Break Free of AT&T Handcuffs: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-07-16T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/iphone-users-unite-to-break-free-of-at-t-handcuffs-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             Love your iPhone and hate the AT&T
service it chains you to? Tired of calls dropped in mid-
sentence? There is a suit for that.  
 As the cacophony of complaints about vanishing calls from
the newest iPhone was reaching a fever pitch last week, a
federal judge in California quietly ruled that iPhone owners --
all of you out there -- can join a case against Apple Inc. and
AT&T Mobility LLC.  
 The class-action suit claims unfair, monopolistic practices
lashed you to the phone service. U.S. District Judge  James Ware 
earlier ruled there is enough evidence for the case to proceed.  
 If the iPhone users win, they would get some money out of
it and the chance to unhitch their devices from AT&T. That
chance could come sooner rather than later.  
 Lawyers for the plaintiffs are considering asking the judge
to order Apple to give its customers the code needed for them to
leave AT&T for another service, according to lawyer  Mark Rifkin .  
 As it is, T-Mobile is the only one in the U.S. that would
be a technological match with the iPhone, says Rifkin, a partner
in Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz.  
 The other side of the case isn’t talking. AT&T declined
comment through spokesman  Mark Siegel . I got no response at all
to a phone message for Apple spokeswoman  Natalie Kerris .  
 But Apple is talking about the problem that has captured
more attention of late: The new iPhone 4 handsets lose even more
calls than the earlier models did. Apple is holding a press
conference today to respond.  
 Antenna Design  
 The new antenna design gets blamed, but that isn’t the
whole story. AT&T lacks the capacity to keep up with all that
traffic, making it a victim as well as a beneficiary of the
iPhone’s phenomenal success.  
 Wouldn’t it be nice to let some of it migrate elsewhere? T-
Mobile may not  have  as much  coverage , but some customers might
want to make that change if only they could.  
 Lack of competition lies at the heart of the lawsuit. To
buy an iPhone, Apple requires you have to sign a two-year
contract with AT&T. If you want out of that contract, you can
pay the hefty early termination fee. But your phone won’t let
you go to any other carrier.  
 If you are patient enough to wait out the two years, you
still have to re-up with AT&T. Your phone won’t let you do
otherwise.  
 There is no technological reason for that, except for the
one created by  Apple  and  AT&T  to keep competitors out.  
 Business Decision  
 “It was a business decision AT&T made to monopolize what
we call the aftermarket for voice and data service,” says
Rifkin. That is a secondary market created from and dependent on
the first.  
 The companies have never confirmed it, but a secret, five-
year exclusivity contract with each other is widely reported.
Court filings from the companies refer to the contract as if
it’s a matter of fact.  
 So what? If you don’t like AT&T, there are plenty of other
carriers that will service other smart devices. It’s just that
you can’t use them with an iPhone.  
 Apple plans to unveil a phone next year to be serviced by
Verizon Communications Inc., according to news reports. But it
hasn’t happened yet, and it’s been three years since the iPhone
was introduced.  
 The suit contends that when customers buy their iPhones,
they unknowingly and involuntarily sign up with AT&T for at
least five years and possibly longer. If they leave AT&T after
two years, they have a useless device they paid a lot of money
to own.  
 Shopping Around  
 Because the contracts limit a customer’s ability to shop
around for voice and data service after that first purchase,
they are unfair, anticompetitive, monopolistic and, according to
legal precedent, impermissible under the antitrust Sherman  Act ,
the suit says. Ware ruled the class can try to prove that in
court.  
 And while he threw out other claims, the judge also ruled
the plaintiffs can try to show that Apple ran afoul of the
 Sherman Antitrust Act  in its initial handling of applications.
It kept users from downloading unapproved applications, although
it has since become tolerant.  
 That Apple and AT&T will appeal Ware’s rulings seems
certain. But the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals doesn’t have
to hear this type of appeal, Rifkin says.  
 And there’s nothing like a class certification order to
bring opposing parties to the settlement table.  
 In the meantime, I humbly offer this advice. If you don’t
want to be chained to AT&T, don’t buy an iPhone.  
 Hello? Can you hear me out there?  
 (Ann Woolner is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        