-- Iran Mosque Attacks That Killed 27 Claimed by Sunni Muslim Group Jundullah
-- Caroline Alexander
-- 2010-07-16T09:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/iran-mosque-attacks-that-killed-27-claimed-by-sunni-muslim-group-jundullah.html

          
          
             The Sunni Muslim group Jundallah
said it carried out two suicide bombings at a mosque in
southeastern Iran that killed 27 people and injured 200.  
 Jundallah, Arabic for “soldiers of God,” said it targeted
members of the military’s Revolutionary Guard Corps who were
marking the annual Guards Day at the Jame Mosque in Zahedan,
according to a  statement  on its website.  
 The first blast went off outside the mosque in the capital
of Sistan-Baluchistan province at about 21:20 p.m. local time
yesterday, with the second following minutes later, the state-
run Islamic Republic News Agency  said . The agency didn’t give
details of the dead and injured.  
 Iran executed Jundallah leader Abdolmalek Rigi on June 20
after he was convicted of “enmity toward God” and ties to the
U.S. and Israel. Jundallah’s new chief, Haj Mohammad Zaher
Baluch, was designated on the same day.  
 Jundallah, based along Pakistan’s border with Iran, says it
is fighting for the rights of the Baluchi people and the Sunni
minority in Shiite Muslim-led Iran.  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  condemned the
bombings and called for the perpetrators to be held to account,
according to a State Department statement.  
 The attack, together with others in Uganda, Pakistan,
Afghanistan, Algeria and Iraq, “underscores the global
community’s need to work together to combat terrorist
organizations,” Clinton said.  
 Iran has accused the U.S. and U.K. of supporting Jundallah
to promote an insurgency by ethnic minorities and destabilize
the government, an allegation both countries deny.  
 Sistan-Baluchistan, which also borders Afghanistan, is one
of Iran’s poorest provinces. Jundallah has been behind other
attacks in the province, including a bombing at a mosque in
Zahedan in May last year that left 21 people dead.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        