-- Argentine Corporate-Bond Drought Ends as Government's Swap Reduces Yields
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-07-16T21:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/irsa-s-150-million-bond-shows-defaulted-debt-restructuring-boosting-sales.html

          
          
             IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones
SA’s sale of international bonds ended a three-month drought in
offerings from Argentine companies after benchmark borrowing
costs fell to a two-month low.  
 IRSA , the country’s biggest real estate developer, issued
$150 million of bonds due in 2020 to yield 11.875 percent
yesterday, the first overseas sale since Pan American Energy LLC
sold $500 million of 11-year debt on April 30. Yields on
Argentine government  dollar debt , a benchmark for corporate
borrowing costs, have dropped 82 basis points in the past two
weeks to 10.92 percent and touched the lowest since May 4 on
July 14, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  
 Corporate rates are falling after the country completed a
restructuring of defaulted debt, paving the way for the
government’s first international bond sale since 2001.  YPF SA ,
the Buenos Aires-based unit of Spain’s largest oil company
Repsol YPF SA, and  Pampa Energia SA , Argentina’s biggest energy
holding company, say they’re considering overseas sales.  
 “There is good market momentum in general and especially
for Argentine corporate bond issuers,” said  Jim Harper ,
director of corporate research at BCP Securities in Greenwich,
Connecticut. “Yields continue to decline and corporates have
begun tapping markets.  
 YPF is monitoring market conditions as it plans its first
sale since 1999 as part of a program to borrow $1 billion,
according to a person familiar with the matter who declined to
be identified because he’s not authorized to speak publicly.
Pampa Energia is prepared to tap markets, Chairman  Marcelo Mindlin  said in a June 14 interview in Buenos Aires.  
 Yield Spread  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold  Argentine  dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries slid 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 741 at 4:36 p.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan. It’s down from 846 on July 1. The cost of
protecting Argentine debt against non-payment for five years
with credit-default swaps rose 12 basis points to 923, according
to data compiled by CMA DataVision.  
 Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 The yield on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015
rose one basis point to 11.74 percent, according to pricing from
Deutsche Bank AG. Warrants linked to economic growth rose 0.05
cent to 8.4 cents on the dollar. The peso climbed 0.1 percent to
3.9326 per dollar.  
 Brazil Sales  
 Argentine corporate bond sales, while picking up, remain a
fraction of those in neighboring Brazil, where companies sold
more than $2 billion worth of debt the past two weeks. Those
offerings top what Argentine companies have issued since January
2008, according to BCP’s Harper.  
 Argentina’s local corporate debt market dried up after
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  nationalized private
pension funds in 2008, said Daniela Cuan, a senior corporate
debt analyst with Moody’s Investors Service in Buenos Aires.  
 “Without the pension funds, companies will continue to
issue small amounts of short-term debt,” Cuan said in a
telephone interview from Buenos Aires yesterday. The
restructuring “doesn’t fundamentally change the situation for
most companies in Argentina,” she said.  
 Last month, five companies sold a total of $80 million of
domestic debt maturing in three years or less, Argentina’s
central bank reported on July 13.  
 2007 Offering  
 IRSA last sold overseas bonds in 2007, when it issued $150
million worth of 10-year bonds to yield 8.5 percent. The
securities yielded 9.92 percent yesterday, or about 200 basis
points below the rate the 2020 bonds fetched in the offering,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Citigroup Inc., Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Banco
Santander SA managed the sale.  
 IRSA and the government are rated B, five levels below
investment grade, by Fitch Ratings.  
 The government postponed plans to sell $1 billion of 2017
dollar bonds as part of its restructuring after yields soared
following credit-rating downgrades in Greece, Spain and
Portugal. Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said the country will
wait for its yields to fall below 10 percent.  
 Argentina’s defaulted debt “was something negative that has
been removed for the most part; the exchange was an important
step forward,” said  Francisco Velasco , an analyst with Exotix
Ltd. in Buenos Aires. “If the sovereign manages to return to
international markets with a global bond sale, that will further
bolster companies’ ability to go to market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
     
         Attachment:  IRSA Bond Sale Results 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
