-- Israel Faces Growing Threat as Foes Improve Rocket Technology, U.S. Says
-- Viola Gienger
-- 2010-07-16T19:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/israel-faces-growing-threat-as-foes-improve-rocket-technology-u-s-says.html

          
          
             Improvements in war-fighting
technology by adversaries make it more difficult to guarantee
Israel’s security and require new approaches to maintain the
country’s military edge, a U.S. State Department official said.  
 In addition to the potential threat should Iran develop
nuclear weapons, conventional arms pose increasing dangers, said
 Andrew Shapiro , assistant secretary of state for political-
military affairs.  
 “Advances in rocket technology require new levels of U.S.-
Israel cooperation,” Shapiro told an audience at the Brookings
Institution in Washington today. “Despite efforts at
containment, rockets with better guidance systems, radar range
and more destructive power are spreading across the region.”  
 Shapiro cited developments such as the “tens of
thousands” of short- and medium-range rockets amassed on
Israel’s northern border by the Lebanese militant group
Hezbollah. These and other threats to Israel’s security are
“real, growing and must be addressed,” he said.  
 The U.S. commitment to Israel’s security prompted President
 Barack Obama  this year to pledge $205 million for a rocket-
defense system called “Iron Dome,” beyond the annual $3
billion the U.S. provides Israel in military assistance.  
 ‘Layered’ Defense  
 The system will be part of a “comprehensive, layered
defense” against the threat of short-range rockets, which the
Hamas militant group in the Gaza Strip also uses to fire on
Israel, Shapiro said.  
 The yearly funding is part of a 10-year, $30 billion
package of arms sales to Israel outlined in 2007 under President
 George W. Bush  that increased funding by 25 percent a year over
previous levels. At the same time, the U.S. pledged $13 billion
over 10 years to Egypt and $20 billion to Saudi Arabia and five
other Gulf countries.  
 The U.S. has sought for years to strengthen the defenses of
Saudi Arabia and other Gulf nations against the potential threat
from Iran.  
 Israel has expressed concern to the U.S. over a planned
sale of  Boeing Co.  F-15 fighter jets to Saudi Arabia, the
Israeli newspaper Ha’aretz reported on July 4, two days before
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s visit to Washington.  
 Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and other Israeli officials
have raised the issue in meetings in Washington and Tel Aviv,
according to Ha’aretz. Netanyahu and U.S. officials have
declined to comment on the report.  
 American Help  
 While Netanyahu was in Washington, he met with Gates in
part on the rocket threat. Gates pledged U.S. assistance in
deploying systems to protect against ballistic missile and
rocket attacks.  
 The $3 billion a year the U.S. spends makes up more than
half the $7 billion annual total for foreign military financing
spread among 70 countries, Shapiro said. Israel also is the only
country allowed to spend 25 percent of the funding outside the
U.S. so that the Middle East nation can shore up its own
industrial defense capacity, he said.  
 Shapiro defended U.S. financing of Israel’s military
development, citing a 2008 law that requires assurance of the
country’s “qualitative military edge” and the benefit at home.  
 “We are fully committed to Israel’s security because it
enhances our own national security and because it helps Israel
to take the steps necessary for peace,” Shapiro said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        