-- Japan's Bonds Have Biggest Weekly Gain in Eight Months on Slowdown Signs
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-16T21:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/japan-s-bonds-have-biggest-weekly-gain-in-eight-months-on-slowdown-signs.html

          
          
             Japanese  bonds  rose the most this
week since November as signs the global economy is slowing
boosted demand for the relative safety of government debt.  
 The benchmark 10-year  yield  dropped to the lowest level in
two weeks after reports showed U.S. wholesale prices dropped
more than economist forecast and China’s economic growth slowed.
Bonds also advanced this week as the Bank of Japan kept its
benchmark interest rate near zero and reduced its economic
growth forecast.  
 “The U.S. economic slowdown is becoming clearer,” said
 Shinji Hiramatsu , who helps oversee the equivalent of $16
billion as senior investment manager at Sompo Japan Asset
Management Ltd. in Tokyo. “Along with a decline in the stock
market, there is no catalyst for investors to sell bonds.”  
 The  yield  on the 10-year bond dropped 6.5 basis points this
week to 1.085 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.1 percent bond due June
2020 rose 0.580 yen to 100.134 yen. This week’s retreat in yield
was the most since the period ended Nov. 13. It fell to 1.065
percent yesterday, matching the lowest since July 1.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery increased 0.45
to 141.66 this week at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 U.S. producer prices slid 0.5 percent last month, the Labor
Department said July 15, greater than the 0.1 percent decline
forecast by economists surveyed by Bloomberg. China’s economic
growth cooled to 10.3 percent last quarter, from 11.9 percent in
the previous three months, the statistics bureau said in Beijing
the same day.  
 Economies Will ‘Stall’  
 Minutes of the Federal Reserve’s June meeting released on
July 14 showed some officials saw “some risk of deflation.”
Deflation enhances the value of the fixed payments from bonds.  
 “Economies are going to slow down and stall for a longer
period, especially in the U.S.,” said  Satoshi Yamada , chief
quantitative analyst in Tokyo at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.
“That means central banks will keep monetary easing for a
longer time. I expect investors to keep buying bonds.”  
 The BOJ, which has been grappling with deflation for 12
years, kept its key rate at 0.1 percent on July 15 and cut next
year’s growth forecast to 1.9 percent from 2 percent.  
 The Ministry of Finance sold 2.2 billion yen ($24.9
billion) of five-year bonds on July 13 with a lowest price 0.01
yen below the average, half that of the previous auction in
June. The so-called tail is the difference between the lowest
and the average price. The longer the tail, the less bids are
clustered around the average price.  
 “The auction result is resilient, reflecting excess cash
that is flooding domestic financial companies,” said  Makoto Noji , a senior market analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 The Finance Ministry will auction 1.1 trillion yen of 20-
year bonds on July 22.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        