-- Stocks Decline the Most in Almost Six Weeks on U.S. Manufacturing, Prices
-- Akiko Ikeda
-- 2010-07-16T07:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/japanese-stocks-retreat-on-decline-in-u-s-manufacturing-canon-sony-drop.html

          
          
             Japanese  stocks  fell, dragging down
benchmark indexes by the most in almost six weeks, on concern
the global economic recovery may falter after U.S. reports
showed manufacturing contracted and wholesale prices dropped.  
 Sony Corp. , an electronics maker that gets 22 percent of
sales in the U.S., tumbled 5 percent. Canon Inc., a camera maker
that gets about 80 percent of its revenue outside Japan, sank
3.2 percent as the dollar weakened to its lowest level this year
against the yen. Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest maker of
portable video-game players, slumped 2.7 percent as U.S. sales
of its DS consoles declined.  
 “Expectations for the economic recovery were strong, but
the momentum is weakening,” said  Kenji Sekiguchi , general
manager of strategic research and investment at Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Co., which oversees $73 billion in assets. “It
seems spending by both companies and households has leveled off.
We can’t be very optimistic about the economic prospects yet.”  
 The Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 2.9 percent to 9,408.36
at the 3 p.m. close in Tokyo. The broader  Topix  index sank 1.9
percent to 840.58, with more than six stocks retreating for each
that rose. Both gauges declined the most since June 7. This week,
the Nikkei has lost 1.8 percent and the Topix, 2.4 percent.  
 The Nikkei 225 closed below 10,000 points for the ninth
consecutive week, the longest such streak since June 2009, and
it slumped the most today among equity benchmarks in the Asia-
Pacific region. It has fallen 17 percent from its 52-week high
on April 5, approaching the 20 percent threshold that some
analysts consider as signaling the beginning of a bear market.  
 U.S. Manufacturing, Jobs  
 U.S. factory output fell 0.4 percent in June, the most in a
year, according to a Federal Reserve report yesterday. The Labor
Department said producer prices declined 0.5 percent after a 0.3
percent drop the month before. Other reports showed factory
output pulled back in the New York and Philadelphia regions in
July. Consumer prices will be announced today in the U.S.  
 Another report showed initial claims for jobless benefits
declined last week, reflecting a smaller number of factory
closings for this time of year.  
 “I’m concerned that the improvement in the labor
environment is not leading to very much growth in consumer
spending,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in Tokyo
at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which oversees about $104 billion.
“A slowdown in price increases is also raising fears.”  
 Yen Hurts Exporters  
 Electronics makers were the heaviest drag on the Topix
among its  33 industry groups , followed by carmakers. All but two
groups declined.  
 Sony, the maker of Bravia televisions and Cyber-shot
cameras, plunged 5 percent to 2,404 yen, the biggest drop since
May 25. Canon, the world’s largest camera maker, lost 3.2
percent to 3,380 yen.  Toyota Motor Corp. , the largest carmaker
worldwide and which gets 30 percent of revenue in North America,
slid 1.3 percent to 3,135 yen.  
 The yen appreciated to its highest level since December
against the dollar, reaching 86.98 today in Tokyo from 88.11 at
yesterday’s close of stock trading. A stronger yen reduces the
value of overseas income at Japanese companies when converted
into their home currency.  
 “The dollar weakened against the backdrop of mounting
anxieties about the U.S. economy,” said  Yumi Nishimura , an
equity-market analyst at Daiwa Securities SMBC Co. “We’ll need
to find out how Japanese exporters will change their forecasts
for the yen.”  
 Nomura Yen Estimate  
 Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage, lowered
the exchange rates it will use to estimate corporate earnings
this year. The brokerage estimated the yen will trade at 89 yen
against the dollar, compared with its earlier estimate of 90 yen.
The Japanese currency will trade at 113.3 yen against the euro,
compared with 120 yen projected earlier.  
 Nintendo lost 2.7 percent to 24,350 yen, its lowest close
since June 10. U.S. sales of Nintendo’s DS handheld video-game
player fell by a third.  
 Yaskawa Electric Corp.  sank 4.4 percent to 676 yen. The
servomotor maker tripled its first-half profit forecast, while
maintaining its earnings outlook for the full year.  
 Yaskawa must have left its annual earnings projections
unchanged because there are “many opaque factors for the
second-half,”  Masayasu Noguchi , an analyst at Nomura, said in a
note to investors today.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        