-- Apple `Working Our Butts Off' to Fix IPhone, Jobs Says
-- Rochelle Garner
-- 2010-07-16T22:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/jobs-says-apple-learned-of-antennagate-22-days-ago-working-to-fix-flaw.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. ’s  Steve Jobs  said the
company knew the iPhone 4 can lose reception when held a certain
way and didn’t think it would be a major issue for users. He
offered customers a free case to fix the flaw.  
 “We tested it -- we knew that if you gripped it a certain
way, bars would go down a little bit,”  Apple ’s chief executive
officer said today at a press conference in Cupertino,
California. “We didn’t think it would be a big problem because
every smartphone has this problem.”  
 Apple, which scheduled the event after customers complained
about losing signal strength, is “working our butts off” to
address the glitch and will let dissatisfied buyers return
phones for a full refund, Jobs said. He apologized to users
affected by the issue, which some bloggers have called
“Antennagate.”  
 Apple, the world’s biggest technology company by market
value, aims to burnish the iPhone’s image after Consumer Reports
opted not to recommend the device, citing difficulty sending and
receiving calls. Apple was stunned, upset and embarrassed by the
magazine’s review, Jobs said today. The iPhone accounts for
about 40 percent of revenue, making it a bigger  moneymaker  than
the Macintosh or iPod.  
 The glitch can occur when users hold the lower-left corner
of the iPhone 4 a certain way. Less than 1 percent of users have
complained about a reception flaw, based on calls to Apple’s
customer service center, Jobs said.  
 ‘Won’t Stop’  
 “We care about all of our users, and we won’t stop until
every one of them is happy,” Jobs, dressed in his trademark
jeans and black turtleneck, told reporters at the event. “This
is blown so out of proportion that this is incredible.”  
 Every iPhone 4 buyer will either get a free rubberized case
called a  Bumper  or the option to choose another case if  Apple 
Bumpers aren’t available, Jobs said. People who already bought a
$29 Bumper will get a refund.  
 Customers can also return their undamaged iPhone 4 within
30 days of purchase for a full refund if they’re still
unsatisfied.  AT&T Inc. , the iPhone’s exclusive U.S. carrier,
will provide refunds and cancel service contracts, Jobs said.  
 “That’s everything we can do to make every customer
happy,” he said.  
 ‘We Are Human’  
 Bloomberg reported this week that an  Apple  engineer warned
Jobs last year that the new external antenna design chosen for
the iPhone 4 might interfere with calls, citing a person with
knowledge of the matter.  
 Jobs said today he didn’t know about the antenna concerns
early on. He called the article a “total crock.”  
 “We are human,” he said. “And we make mistakes
sometimes. But we find out pretty fast and we work to make our
customers happy.”  
 Apple has tested other smartphones to see if gripping them
a certain way hurts reception. It found the same shortcoming on
 Research In Motion Ltd. ’s BlackBerry Bold, HTC Corp.’s Droid
Eris and  Samsung Electronics Co. ’s Omnia II, Jobs said.  
 The Bumper giveaway will last until Sept. 30, when  Apple 
will revisit the policy. The company may have a better idea of
what to do about the phone then, Jobs said.  
 Consumer Reports said today that the free-case offer was “a
good first step.” The magazine didn’t change its rating, saying
it would wait for a long-term fix.  
 Gene Munster , an analyst with Piper Jaffray & Co. in
Minneapolis, estimates that the Bumper and case giveaway will
cost Apple $40 million between now and Sept. 30. If Apple
decides to extend the free offer through the next 12 months, it
may cost $178.5 million, he said.  
 Shares Drop  
 Apple fell $1.55 to $249.90 at 4 p.m. New York time in
 Nasdaq Stock Market   trading . The shares have declined 7.8
percent since June 23 -- a day before the iPhone 4 went on sale.
While Jobs apologized to those customers experiencing reception
issues with the iPhone 4, he said he wouldn’t apologize to
investors. Apple reports third-quarter earnings on July 20.  
 “People don’t see this as a long-term problem,” said
 Kenneth Schapiro , president of Condor Capital Management in
Martinsville, New Jersey, whose biggest holding is Apple.
“They’re seeing it as something the company is going to
solve.”  
 Antenna Spending  
 Apple  has invested $100 million in antenna technology over
the past five years, including building 17 special antenna
testing chambers, he said.  
 The company has sold more than 3 million iPhone 4s, and
it’s still the “best product we’ve made,” Jobs said.  Apple  has
found that just 0.55 percent of customers have called to
complain about the reception issue, he said.  
 The new phone also drops less than 1 additional call per
100 calls than the iPhone 3GS, which was released last year.  
 The iPhone 4 has a new design, with the antenna built into
a metal band that surrounds the phone. To lessen the chance of
losing reception, Apple suggested last month that users either
buy a case or avoid holding the lower-left corner of the phone a
certain way.  
 Last year, Ruben Caballero, a senior engineer and antenna
expert, informed Apple’s  management  that the device’s design may
hurt reception, Bloomberg reported this week. A carrier partner
also said the external antenna might interfere with reception,
according to another person familiar with the situation.  
 Bezel Choice  
 Apple ’s industrial design team, led by  Jonathan Ive ,
submitted several iPhone designs before Jobs and other
executives settled on the bezel antenna, said the person
familiar with the discussion. Caballero, the antenna expert,
voiced concern in early planning meetings that it might lead to
dropped calls and presented a serious engineering challenge, the
person said. Apple chose the design because it yielded a
thinner, lighter phone.  
 “We have healthy debates about everything, and I’m sure in
some corners of the antenna world, that was debated hotly,”
Jobs said today. “But if anyone had said, ‘Look this antenna
has questions. We’re concerned about it,’ we clearly would have
dispatched that to the right people to go get the data.”  
 Jobs said today that return rates for the iPhone 4 are
lower than for the 3GS. The early return rate through  AT&T  was
1.7 percent, less than a third of the previous model’s number.  
 ‘Support Their Decision’  
 “We support their decision to offer a free Bumper and a
waiver of the usual restocking fee,”  Mark Siegel , an AT&T
spokesman, said in an interview. Details of the return process
at Dallas-based AT&T would be available soon, Siegel said.  
 The glitch hasn’t prevented iPhone 4 inventory from selling
out. Salespeople at Apple  retail stores  in New York, San
Francisco, Los Angeles, Houston and Seattle said yesterday that
the iPhone 4 was out of stock and that customers should expect a
two- to three-week wait for the device.  
 Apple has been telling visitors to its  website  that iPhone
4 models will ship within three weeks. The company sells a 16-
gigabyte model for $199 and a 32-gigabyte version for $299.
Those prices require U.S. customers to sign up for a two-year
service contract with  AT&T.   
 Apple can’t make iPhone 4s fast enough, Jobs said today.
“We are way behind demand,” he said.  
 Jobs’s remarks, along with the free Bumpers, helped restore
the company’s image, said Mike Aponte, an  Apple  customer who
visited the San Francisco store after hearing about the offer.  
 “It’s probably the cheapest way to get out of this PR mess
they got themselves into,” said Aponte, an information
technology administrator. “They redeemed themselves a bit
today.”  
 The company also said it released an update to the iPhone
operating system software yesterday to more accurately display
signal strength. Earlier this month,  Apple  said it was
“stunned” to discover it was using a flawed mathematical
formula to calculate and display the number of signal bars. That
meant the iPhone 4’s reception might look better than it was.  
 “We’re not perfect,” Jobs said. “We know that, you know
that. And phones aren’t perfect. But we want to make all of our
users happy and if you don’t know that about Apple, you don’t
know Apple.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Connie Guglielmo  in San Francisco at 
 cguglielmo1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rochelle Garner  in San Francisco at 
 rgarner4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Appple CEO Steve Jobs talks about the Apple iPhone 4 at a news conference in Cupertino. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Cris Valerio reports on Apple Inc.'s news conference today where Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs acknowledged the company knew the antenna of the iPhone 4 would weaken if the phone was gripped in a certain way. Kenneth Schapiro, president of Condor Capital Management, also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Ashok Kumar, senior technology analyst at Rodman & Renshaw, speaks about antenna issues with Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4 and the outlook for Google Inc.'s Android mobile operating system. 
     Kumar talks with Matt Miller, Carol Massar and Cris Valerio on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Marshall, an analyst at Gleacher & Co., and Paul Sagawa, an analyst at Sector & Sovereign LLC, talk about a design flaw in the antenna of Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4.
     Apple Chief Executive Officer Steve Jobs apologized to users affected by the so-called Antennagate, saying Apple is “working our butts off” to correct it. He offered customers a case to fix the flaw. They talk with Matt Miller, Carol Massar and Cris Valerio on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
