-- KGB Successor Law Approved as Russian Human Rights Organizations Protest
-- Lyubov Pronina
-- 2010-07-16T14:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/kgb-successor-law-approved-as-russian-human-rights-organizations-protest.html

          
          
             Russian lawmakers approved a measure
that expands the powers of the  Federal Security Service , or FSB,
the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, as human rights
activists called on President  Dmitry Medvedev  not to sign it.  
 Three hundred and fifty-four lawmakers in the 450-seat
lower house of parliament, the State Duma, voted in a final
reading for a measure that will allow the FSB to issue warnings
to people about actions that “create the conditions for a
crime.” Failure to observe a legal ruling or accede to a demand
from an FSB employee entails “arrest for up to 15 days,” the
 text  of the bill on the Duma website shows.  
 A draft law was submitted to the Duma in April as the
government attempted to clamp down on terrorism following two
suicide-bomb attacks on the Moscow metro the previous month that
claimed 40 lives. It sparked protests from human rights groups,
with more than 80 activists today appealing to Medvedev in an
open  letter  that asks him to make a “final choice between the
supremacy of law” and “abuse of power.”  
 “You constantly talk about the necessity to ensure the
priority of law as the main condition for development of our
country,” they said in the letter, posted on the website of the
For Human Rights movement. “Today, it depends on you whether
the adoption of a bill which destroys key principles of law --
presumption of innocence and legal certainty -- is stopped.”  
 Against Nihilism  
 Thirty-one percent of respondents in a  poll  by Moscow-based
research company Levada Center published on July 9 said the law
will illegally expand FSB authority, allowing it to violate
civil rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. The
law will be used to crack down on the opposition and independent
journalists, 19 percent of respondents said.  
 More than 60 percent said they hadn’t heard about the law
while 3 percent said they had closely monitored the debate.
Forty percent said it was in line with Medvedev’s policy.  
 Medvedev, 44, a former lawyer who has declared fighting
“legal nihilism” a priority for his presidential term that
began in 2008, has had more active dialog with human rights
groups than his predecessor and now Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin . Fielding a question from a reporter at a press conference
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Medvedev said yesterday
that changes to the law on the security services was a result of
his “direct order.”  
 Merkel said that in Germany, public debate on the issue
“would have been different, understandably.”  
 Under Suspicion  
 The bill was toned down for its second reading this month,
striking out a provision that would have entailed punishment for
ignoring an invitation from the FSB for a “preventative”
conversation, one of the bill’s authors, Vladimir Vasilyev,
chairman of the Duma’s Security Committee, told reporters on
July 6.  
 Vasilyev said people under suspicion, yet not charged with
a crime, could still be invited for a talk aimed at persuading
them to mend their ways.  
 Under the text passed today and submitted to the Federation
Council, the upper chamber of the Parliament, the form and the
process of the official warning will be regulated by the FSB.  
 Valentin Gefter, head of the Moscow-based  Human Rights
Institute , said the bill is too loose, and that punitive
measures could be added in procedural directives after its
adoption that would be off-limits for public control.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        