-- Komatsu Plans to Double Machine Production on Construction Demand in Asia
-- Yasumasa Song
-- 2010-07-16T07:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/komatsu-plans-to-double-machine-production-on-construction-demand-in-asia.html

          
          
             Komatsu Ltd. , the world’s second-
largest construction-equipment maker, plans to double production
this financial year to meet demand from  China  and Indonesia.  
 About 85,000 building and mining machines will probably be
manufactured in the year ending March 31, compared with 44,000 a
year earlier, Executive Officer Masahiro Uegaki said in an
interview at the company’s Tokyo headquarters. That’s 60 percent
higher than its outlook released in April.  
 Komatsu, which raised its first-half profit forecast 41
percent this month, is relying on growth in Asia and the U.S. to
combat  Caterpillar Inc. , its larger rival. China, Komatsu’s
largest market, yesterday reported the fastest drop in
 industrial-production growth  since 2008.  
 “Komatsu faces the risk of a further slowdown in the
Chinese economy, which would lead to a drop in its stock
price,” said  Yasuhiro Matsumoto , a senior analyst at Shinsei
Securities Co. in Tokyo. Komatsu will likely benefit from long-
term expected growth in China, its largest market, he said.  
 Shares  of Komatsu, which declined 11 percent this year,
fell 2 percent to 1,731 yen at the close of trading in Tokyo.
Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction-machinery maker,
dropped 0.3 percent yesterday to $66.51 in New York, paring its
gain for the year to 17 percent.  
 Komatsu set up a buying department in China in April,
sending more than 20 executives and managers from Japan to fend
off competition from Caterpillar, Japan’s  Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co.  and China’s Sany Heavy Industry Co. Komatsu is the
largest overseas supplier of excavators, wheel loaders and other
heavy machines to China.  
 Easing Expansion  
 China’s  economic expansion  eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter. June industrial production growth was 13.7
percent, down from 16.5 percent in May. Analysts had expected
growth of 15.1 percent. The nation remains the fastest growing
large economy.  
 “China’s strength is outstanding,” Uegaki said yesterday
before the China growth figures were released. “Indonesia is
also strong, the markets for the country’s mining, agriculture,
forestry and construction sectors are all good.”  
 The company raised its estimate for global steel buying for
this fiscal year to about 99,000 metric tons a month from 57,000
tons, Uegaki said. About 48,000 tons of steel will be consumed
in Japan every month, he said.  
 Local Purchases  
 Komatsu buys steel from local suppliers for use in the
exterior and arms of excavators sold in China, Uegaki said.
Japanese steel is used in high-pressure tubes and in large
mining dump trucks sold worldwide, he said.  
 Komatsu’s suppliers include  Nippon Steel Corp.  and  JFE
Holdings Inc. , Japan’s two largest steelmakers, and Baosteel
Group Corp., China’s second-largest mill.  
 Net income at Komatsu may climb to 52 billion yen ($594
million) in the six months to Sept. 30, compared with its April
estimate of 37 billion yen, the company said July 13. Komatsu
earned 8.2 billion yen a year earlier. Sales may reach 870
billion yen, beating its forecast by about 7 percent.  
 China surpassed Japan as Komatsu’s largest market last
fiscal year, accounting for 19 percent of its sales, as the
country’s investment in roads, railway and buildings drove
demand for construction, especially in the hinterland.  
 Indonesia’s economy may have expanded more than 5.7
percent in the second quarter bolstered by growth in investment
and exports, Diffi A. Johansyah, a spokesman at the nation’s
central bank told reporters in Jakarta July 2.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A Komatsu Ltd. excavator  
                       
                         
                           Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A Komatsu Ltd. excavator works in front of commercial buildings at a construction site in Tokyo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Komatsu Ltd. excavator works in front of commercial buildings at a construction site in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
