-- Anglo American's Kumba Demands ArcelorMittal Prepay for Ore as Talks Stall
-- Antony Sguazzin
-- 2010-07-16T09:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/kumba-iron-ore-says-no-agreement-is-reached-in-talks-with-arcelormittal.html

          
          
             Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , a unit of Anglo
American Plc, demanded that  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd.  pay
for ore before it’s delivered because the steelmaker rejected
options it put forward to resolve a dispute over supply.  
 The Pretoria-based company, which provides ArcelorMittal
South Africa with two-thirds of its ore needs, canceled a nine-
year-old supply agreement from March 1 under which the
steelmaker bought ore at 3 percent above production costs.  
 The disputed contract was agreed as part of the split of
formerly state-owned Iscor Ltd. into separate steel and mining
companies. While at the time the pact was deemed necessary for
the steelmaker’s survival, it now limits Kumba’s ability to
benefit from higher iron ore prices. ArcelorMittal South Africa
has warned of possible plant closures if it pays market-related
prices for the steelmaking ingredient.  
 Kumba proposed two options to the steelmaker, that it pay
the difference between the old agreement and the market price
into an escrow account until the dispute is resolved, or that it
pays $50 a metric ton for ore supplied to its coastal Saldanha
plant and $80 a ton for its “inland” plants, the miner said in
a stock exchange statement today.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa, 46.8 percent-owned by
Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, will make a statement
“shortly,” spokesman  Julian Gwillim  said by phone. He declined
to comment further.  
 ‘Abuse of Dominance’  
 The steelmaker introduced a surcharge on steel products
from the beginning of May to cover its higher ore costs. The
decision resulted in a probe by South African competition
authorities concerned about “abuse of dominance and excessive
pricing.”  
 Kumba’s first option isn’t viable for the steelmaker
because of government opposition to the surcharge, meaning the
levy could be ended by authorities leaving the company unable to
meet its commitments to Kumba, Afena Capital fund manager  Andrew Joannou  said by phone from Cape Town.  
 The second option isn’t feasible because it will cut
profit, he said. The steelmaker would be “under serious
pressure and it’s understandable why they haven’t agreed.”  
 Since ArcelorMittal South Africa hasn’t accepted either of
the options, Kumba said it will from Aug. 1 only deliver ore if
it gets paid for the shipments 48 hours in advance at the rates
proposed and if back payments for ore delivered from March 1 are
made.  
 Mineral Rights  
 Kumba scrapped its supply deal with ArcelorMittal South
Africa after it failed to renew its 21.4 percent mineral right
in Sishen, Africa’s largest iron ore mine. Kumba said the
contract hinged on the steelmaker owning the rights and its
subsidiary, Sishen Iron Ore Co., owning the remaining rights.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa Chief Executive Officer,
 Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita  said on May 11 that the contract was
separate from the ownership of the mineral right. The dispute is
now in arbitration.  
 Shares  in Kumba gained 6.52 rand, or 1.9 percent, to 342.02
rand at 11:39 a.m. in Johannesburg, while ArcelorMittal South
Africa fell 22 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 75.13 rand, paring
earlier gains.  
 “The market has already priced this in,” said  Andrew Todd , a derivatives trader with Imara Holdings Ltd., by phone
from Johannesburg. “This hasn’t come as a huge surprise.”  
 The steelmaker’s  shares  have dropped 34 percent since Kumba
announced it was canceling its supply contract on Feb. 26.  
 For Related News and Information:
Top South African Stories: TOP ZA &lt;GO&gt;
Top African Stories: AFTO &lt;GO&gt;
Top Commodity Stories: CTOP &lt;GO&gt;
Top Metals Stories: METT &lt;GO&gt;
Metal Markets: METL &lt;GO&gt;  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        