-- National Envelope Wins Court Approval for $25 Million Bankruptcy Financing
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-07-16T19:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/national-envelope-wins-court-approval-for-25-million-bankruptcy-financing.html

          
          
             National Envelope Corp. won court
permission to borrow as much as $25 million to fund its
bankruptcy while the envelope maker organizes an auction of
itself.  
 The financing is part of a $135 million package being
provided by the company’s pre-bankruptcy lenders, company
attorney  Josef S. Athanas  said. About $110 million of their old
debt is being refinanced as part of the new bankruptcy loan,
Athanas said in an interview today.  
 NEC, based in Uniondale, New York, filed bankruptcy last
month after being pursued by competitor Cenveo Corp., a
specialty printing and envelope maker. Last week, NEC agreed to
sell itself at an auction, with Gores Group LLC acting as the
lead bidder with an offer of $134.5 million.  
 “We look forward to spirited bidding at the auction,”
Athanas said.  
 The company will return to U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington, Delaware July 22 to seek approval of its proposed
auction rules. The company wants to hold an Aug. 20 auction to
see if anyone will offer more than Gores.  
 All other bids are due Aug. 16, and a hearing to approve
the proposed sale is set for Aug. 23, under the proposed auction
rules.  
 If a court approves the rules, Gores would be entitled to a
breakup fee of $2.65 million should someone else win the
bidding.  
 Cenveo has said in court papers it will offer $140 million
in cash if it is allowed to participate in the sale process.  
 NEC listed assets and debt of as much as $500 million each
when it filed for bankruptcy June 10 along with 26 affiliates.  
 The lead case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        