-- Neuberger Reprises Lehman Team for Hedge-Fund Deals
-- Miles Weiss
-- 2010-07-16T15:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/neuberger-reprises-lehman-team-to-invest-1-billion-in-hedge-fund-managers.html

          
          
             Neuberger Berman Group LLC, the
money manager that was part of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
reassembled a team of executives to invest as much as $1 billion
in firms that run hedge funds.  
 The investments will be made through a new private-equity
fund, Dyal Capital Partners LP, the New York-based firm said in
a regulatory filing. Dyal is led by Michael Rees, chief operating
officer of Neuberger’s alternative-investments business, who
</a>worked in the Lehman unit that bought stakes in hedge-fund
managers including D.E. Shaw Group and Ospraie Management LLC.  
 The U.S. financial-overhaul legislation approved yesterday
by Congress may limit the ability of banks and brokerages to
invest in hedge-fund advisers. That would make funds like
Neuberger’s more attractive to hedge-fund principals looking for
capital, according to  Aaron Dorr , a managing director in the
financial institutions group at Jefferies & Co., a New York-
based securities firm.  
 “At a minimum, there may be less competition for these
assets if the banks are not buyers,” Dorr said in a telephone
interview.  
 Randall Whitestone , a spokesman for Neuberger, a 71-year-
old money-management firm that Lehman purchased in 2003,
declined to comment. Lehman, which filed for bankruptcy
protection in September 2008, issued a majority stake in
Neuberger to the unit’s employees last year in return for
contractual guarantees that they would remain in their jobs.  
 Hedge-fund firms, which oversee $1.7 trillion globally,
usually charge management fees of 2 percent of assets and
performance fees equal to 20 percent of investment gains.  
 Sharing Revenue  
 Dyal will invest in 12 to 15 established hedge-fund firms
with assets ranging from $1 billion to $6 billion, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter. Dyal’s share of fee
income will be distributed to its investors, providing an annual
yield that could exceed 25 percent, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the fund is private.  
 Private-equity firms including TPG Inc. and  KKR & Co.  have
bought or invested in asset managers, focusing mostly on mutual
funds because they generate more predictable fees than hedge
funds.  
 “Hedge funds are challenging to value for starters because
they have such a huge proportion of their revenues from
performance fees, which are volatile,” said  Michael Wilson , a
managing director in the financial-services group at TA
Associates, a Boston-based private-equity firm that has made 13
investments in asset managers since 1989. “The other thing is
hedge funds tend to be run by big personalities with big egos,
and they like their independence.”  
 Cantilever Capital  
 David Ballard , the former co-head of convertible-bond
origination at Merrill Lynch & Co., plans a fund called
Cantilever Capital LLC that will also raise capital to invest in
money managers, according to a June 8 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Cantilever, based in
Norwalk, Connecticut, will acquire stakes of as much as 25
percent in managers through the purchase of convertible-debt
securities that mature in 20 years.  
 Ballard declined to comment on the filing, which said that
the convertible notes acquired by Cantilever will have a
“participation-based” payment structure that is based on the
revenue of the underlying money manager or its assets under
management.  
 “The notes will not be actively or publicly traded,” the
filing said, adding that Cantilever will buy the securities “in
highly negotiated ‘one-off’ private transactions.”  
 Past Deals  
 Prior to its bankruptcy, Lehman invested about $2 billion
in hedge-fund firms including D.E. Shaw, founded by  David E. Shaw , and  Dwight Anderson ’s Ospraie. The New York-based bank
also acquired minority stakes in money managers including
Spinnaker Capital Group of London; Marble Bar Asset Management
LLP, a London-based firm founded by Hilton Nathanson; and GLG
Partners Inc., a New York firm that is now publicly traded.  
 Rees helped select many of these investments while at
Lehman. He’s joined at Dyal by Andrew Komaroff, Neuberger’s
chief operating officer;  George Walker , the firm’s chief
executive officer; and  Anthony Tutrone , head of alternative
investments. All worked together on the Lehman team.  
 Neuberger had raised $150 million for the fund, according
to its filing with the SEC last month. The minimum investment is
$10 million for Dyal, which will focus on investing in firms
that can attract money from large pension funds, according to
the person familiar with the partnership.  
 Market Opening  
 Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse
Group AG have units or funds that invest in hedge-fund managers.
Goldman Sachs’s $1 billion Petershill Fund LP, run by  Jonathan Sorrell , has reported buying stakes in Winton Capital Management
and Capula Investment Management LLP, both based in London.  
 The financial-services overhaul bill could prevent banks
and brokerages from making minority investments in outside
advisers, according to  Kevin Petrasic , an attorney in the
Washington office of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP.  
 “This is one of those provisions where the devil is in the
details of how the regulators apply that rule,” Petrasic said
in an interview. “The regulators will take a close look at this
issue” of whether banks can make minority investments in
outside managers.  
 Sovereign wealth funds of countries such as China and Dubai
took minority stakes in hedge-fund managers that went public in
2006 and 2007, only to suffer big losses during the market crash
that they have yet to recoup. Dubai International Capital LLC
paid about $1.2 billion to acquire a 10.8 percent stake in Och-
Ziff Capital Management Group LLC in November 2007. The stake’s
current market value is about $511 million.  
 “The ground is littered with the wreckage of these
minority-stake ventures, in part because talent is far, far
rarer than capital,” said  Donald Putnam , a managing partner for
Grail Partners LLC, whose $100 million Chalice Fund LP has
invested in money managers such as Creighton Capital Management
LLC of Sausalito, California, and Munder Capital Management in
Birmingham, Michigan. “Adverse selection is rampant.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Miles Weiss  in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     D.E. Shaw Inc co-founder David Shaw. Photographer: Kimberly White/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
