-- New Zealand's Dollar Slides After Inflation Report; Australia's Declines
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-16T15:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/new-zealand-s-dollar-weakens-as-slower-inflation-eases-rate-rise-pressure.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s dollar fell for the
first time in two weeks after a government report showed
consumer prices rose at a slower pace than economists forecast,
easing pressure on the central bank to raise interest rates.  
 The kiwi weakened against all 16 of its major counterparts
as swaps traders cut their predictions for the size of rates
increases by central bank Governor  Alan Bollard  over the next 12
months. Australia’s dollar weakened for a second day as signs of
slowing growth in China, the South Pacific nation’s largest
trading partner, damped demand.  
 The inflation data “buys the Reserve Bank a bit more time
and that’s why we’re seeing this reaction in the kiwi,” said
 Khoon Goh , a senior markets economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd.
in Wellington. “The market should start to focus on the fact
that some of the domestic momentum in the New Zealand economy
seems to be easing.”  
 New Zealand’s dollar fell 2.6 percent to 71.012 U.S. cents
at 11:54 a.m. in New York from 72.97 cents yesterday, its first
decline since July 2. The currency dropped 3.6 percent to 61.47
yen. The so-called Aussie slid 1.5 percent to 87.09 U.S. cents,
and lost 2.6 percent to 75.29 yen.  
 The kiwi pared its second weekly gain after Statistics New
Zealand said  consumer prices  rose 0.3 percent last quarter from
the previous three months, less than the 0.4 percent gain
forecast by economists.  
 Rate Bets  
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Bollard raised the
official cash rate to 2.75 percent on June 10, the first
increase since 2007. Traders are betting he will boost the
benchmark by 1.22 percentage points over the next 12 months,
after wagering on a 1.30 percentage point advance at the start
of the week, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  index .  
 The New Zealand and Australian dollars also weakened as
Asian stocks dropped, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.
The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index  of shares fell 0.6 percent, a second
day of losses.  
 “We have seen a fairly indifferent performance on Asian
equity markets which has taken some buying momentum away from
the Australian dollar,”  Tim Waterer , a foreign-exchange dealer
at CMC Markets in Sydney, wrote in a note. “Market sentiment
remains fickle which does lend itself to higher volatility
trading for the Aussie in the near-term.”  
 A gauge of consumer sentiment dropped to 66.5 in July from
76 in the previous month, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index. The median
forecast of 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
drop to 74. China’s economic growth slowed to 10.3 percent last
quarter, from 11.9 percent in the prior three months, the
statistics bureau said yesterday.  
 The New Zealand dollar still had a weekly gain against the
U.S. currency, adding 0.04 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        