-- New York City to Be Hit by Another Heat Wave Starting Today Into Next Week
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-16T15:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/new-york-city-to-be-hit-by-another-heat-wave-starting-today-into-next-week.html

          
          
             New York City is starting out on
another heat wave today that will likely last into at least
early next week, according to the National Weather Service.  
 A heat advisory has been issued for New York and an air-
quality alert stretches from Connecticut to Maryland and
Delaware, according to the weather service. An advisory is
issued when temperatures are expected to reach 95 Fahrenheit (35
Celsius) for at least two days or are likely to hit 100 or more.  
 “The heat continues into Monday in the low- to mid-90s,”
said  Brian Ciemnecki , a weather service meteorologist in  Upton,
New York . “We have a shot at falling below 90 on Tuesday, but
there will be at least four hot days here.”  
 A heat wave is defined as at least three days of 90-degree
or higher readings.  
 Above-normal temperatures have been gripping a large part
of the U.S. for the past few weeks, as well as portions of Asia
and Europe including Germany, France, China and Japan, taxing
utilities and setting temperature records. New York broke daily
heat records last week when the temperature passed 100 two days
in a row.  
 Natural gas for August delivery lost 4.3 cents, or 0.9
percent, to $4.543 per million British thermal units at 10:20
a.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The futures have
fallen 18 percent this year.  
 One of the culprits for the heat has been the Jet Stream, a
narrow band of strong winds in the atmosphere, which has been
farther north than usual, said  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy
meteorologist at  Planalytics Inc.  in Berwyn, Pennsylvania.  
 The Jet Stream divides northern cool air and warm southern
air as it circles the world. Along its twisting edge,
disturbances develop that help moderate temperatures.  
 Abnormal Path  
 “The problem is that over the past six weeks the Jet
Stream has been abnormally far north and it hasn’t had any drops
that would support cold switches,” Rouiller said by telephone
yesterday. “It has allowed warm air to push steadily north and
intensify, and once this happens it persists.”  
 For the second time in two weeks,  Consolidated Edison Co .
today urged its 3.2 million customers in the New York City area
to conserve power during the day.  
 “With the next heat wave looming and temperatures expected
to stay in the 90s this weekend, Con Edison is again emphasizing
energy-saving steps to conserve,” according to a statement
posted on the company’s website.  
 Degree Days  
 Since June 1, the cooling degree days value in Central Park
has been 542, or 156 above normal, according to the weather
service.  
 Cooling degree days , calculated by subtracting a base of 65
degrees from the average daily temperature, is a value designed
to show energy demand, according to the weather service. The
higher the value, the warmer the weather, and thus the more
energy is probably consumed to cool homes and businesses.  
 An excessive heat watch also has been issued for
Philadelphia, parts of eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey
and northern Delaware for later this weekend.  
 “The combination of hot temperatures and high humidity
will combine to create a  dangerous situation  in which heat
illnesses are possible,” according to a weather service
bulletin. The advisory warns against leaving pets outside.  
 Temperatures are forecast to be in at least the mid-90s in
Baltimore, Washington and Philadelphia into next week, according
to the weather service. The high in Baltimore today is forecast
to reach 99, and in Washington it may hit 97.  
 The cooling degree days value at Washington Reagan National
Airport since June 1 is 727, or 207 above normal, and in
Baltimore, 650, or 239 above normal. Philadelphia’s value has
been 647 or 231 above normal.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Boats travel around the tip of the financial district of Manhattan in this aerial photograph taken over New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
