-- Yankees Honor `Shining Stars' Steinbrenner, Sheppard Before Comeback Win
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-07-17T05:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/new-york-yankees-honor-shining-stars-steinbrenner-sheppard-before-game.html

          
          
             The New York Yankees honored late
owner  George Steinbrenner  and former public-address announcer
 Bob Sheppard  with a come-from-behind victory yesterday
following a pre-game ceremony in which they were remembered as
“shining stars of the Yankee universe.”  
 The Yankees showed a video tribute to Steinbrenner and had
a moment of silence for both prior to the team’s first game
since Major League Baseball’s All-Star break, a home contest
against the Tampa Bay Rays.  
 Nick Swisher’s  two-out single in the bottom of the ninth
inning drove in  Curtis Granderson  to give the Yankees a 5-4 win.
Swisher also hit a solo home run off  Joaquin Benoit  to tie the
game at 4-4 in the eighth inning.  
 After trailing 3-1 through five innings, New York tied it
at 3-3 when  Robinson Cano  and  Jorge Posada  hit solo home runs
off  James Shields  in the bottom of the sixth.  
 “On a day like this when we celebrate his life, got to
take him out on a W,” Swisher told reporters after the game.
“Today was Mr. Steinbrenner’s day. Regardless of the situation,
regardless of anything, we went out there and we played that
game as best we could for him.”  
 Sheppard’s voice opened the 15-minute pre-game ceremony:
“Good evening ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Yankee
Stadium.”  
 That was followed by a 4-minute video tribute to
Steinbrenner and an almost 90-second standing ovation by the
fans, players, coaches and executives in attendance.  
 ‘Shining Stars’  
 “We gather here tonight to honor two men who were both
shining stars of the Yankee universe,” Yankees captain  Derek Jeter  said in a speech given after relief pitcher  Mariano Rivera  placed two roses at home plate. “They’ll forever be
remembered in baseball history and in our hearts. Simply put,
Mr. Steinbrenner and Mr. Sheppard both left this organization
in a much better place then when they first arrived. They’ve
set the example for all employees of the New York Yankees to
strive to follow.”  
 After a moment of silence, U.S. armed forces played
“Taps” and the national anthem.  
 After the final out, Sheppard’s voice was heard again over
the stadium’s speakers. “Thank you for coming to the game,”
he said in a recording.  
 Another ceremony will be held today during the team’s Old-
Timers’ Day. A video tribute to Sheppard will precede the
introduction of more than 64 former Yankee players and coaches.
There will also be a performance to recognize Sheppard during
the seventh-inning stretch.  
 Uniform Patches  
 A patch commemorating Steinbrenner was placed on the front
left of the Yankees’ uniforms -- over the heart --and another
patch honoring Sheppard adorns the left sleeve of the team’s
jerseys. The patches will be worn for the rest of the season.  
 Following Sheppard’s July 11 death, Steinbrenner said in a
statement that his departure left a “lasting silence.” The
Yankees owner himself passed away two days later in Tampa,
Florida. He was 80.  
 Steinbrenner, known as “The Boss,” led an investment
group that spent $8.6 million to buy the club from CBS Corp. in
1973. The team is now worth $1.5 billion, the most in baseball,
according to Forbes magazine.  
 The Yankees won seven of their record 27 World Series
titles during Steinbrenner’s 37-year tenure as owner. Last year,
they beat the Philadelphia Phillies in six games to win the
championship in the inaugural season at the new Yankee Stadium.
New York is 56-32 this season, the best record in baseball.  
 Flags Lowered  
 Following Steinbrenner’s death, Major League Baseball
Commissioner  Bud Selig  said that the former owner will always
be as much a New York Yankee as Hall-of-Famers  Babe Ruth ,
 Mickey Mantle  and DiMaggio.  
 Flags at New York’s City Hall were lowered on July 13 in
Steinbrenner’s honor, while Yankees players and coaches wore
black armbands in his memory that night at baseball’s All-Star
Game in Anaheim, California.  
 “It’s huge, a huge a loss,” Rivera said in an interview
with the YES Network before the ceremony. “Irreplaceable.
There will never be another boss.”  
 Sheppard died at the age of 99. He stepped away from the
Yankees’ public-address booth in 2007, ending a 57-season
career with the American League franchise.  
 Perfect Diction  
 Known for his perfect diction and dignified delivery,
Sheppard began working for the Yankees in 1951 and introduced
players from  Joe DiMaggio  to  Derek Jeter  before a bronchial
infection during the 2007 season forced a long hospital stay
and his eventual retirement.  
 Jeter continues to use a recording of Sheppard’s
introduction: “Now batting for the Yankees, the shortstop, No.
2, Derek Jeter, No. 2.” The introduction was also used prior
to Jeter’s speech.  
 Sheppard’s funeral was July 15, while Steinbrenner’s will
be held privately. A public memorial for the Yankees’ former
owner is being planned, according to his family.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        