-- Nigerian Inflation Slowed to Annual Rate of 10.3% in June as Lending Eased
-- Paul Okolo
-- 2010-07-16T11:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/nigerian-inflation-slowed-to-annual-rate-of-10-3-in-june-as-lending-eased.html

          
          
             Nigeria’s inflation rate declined to
10.3 percent in June after annual lending growth to private
industry slowed for the second consecutive month in May and the
money supply dropped from the month earlier.  
 Inflation slowed from 11 percent in May, the National
 Bureau of Statistics  in the capital, Abuja, said today in a
statement.  
 Credit to private industry rose an annual 17.7 percent in
May, down from 20.1 percent the month before, while the M2 money
supply dropped 1.9 percent in May from April, the  Central Bank
of Nigeria  said on July 7. Banks remain unwilling to lend after
the central bank was forced to bail out much of the financial
system last year to avoid a collapse.  
 “No new money is coming into the system either through
foreign investments or government spending,” Pabina Yinkere, an
analyst at Access Bank Plc, said last week by phone from the
commercial hub, Lagos.  
 The central bank injected 620 billion naira ($4.1 billion)
into the banking industry last year and sacked the chief
executive officers of eight of the 24 commercial banks for their
handling of the crisis.  
 A stable exchange rate has also helped to moderate
inflation. The naira has traded between 149 to the dollar and
153 all year. It closed at 150.47 to the U.S. currency on July
14.  
 While inflation will probably slow over the next few
months, “upside risks exist in the form of public-sector wage
hikes,” Alan Cameron, an analyst at London-based  Business
Monitor International , said in an e-mail before today’s
announcement. The famine in neighboring Niger may also stretch
food supplies and push up prices, said Cameron.  
 In May, the central bank’s Sanusi said that the inflation
outlook remained “uncertain” because of the expansionary
fiscal policy and an injection of funds to deal with toxic debt
in the banking system.  
 Nigeria is Africa’s top oil producer and the fifth-largest
source of U.S. crude imports.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Okolo  in Abuja   pokolo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        