-- Toyota, Nissan Invest $1.2 Billion to Expand Production in Latin America
-- Makiko Kitamura
-- 2010-07-16T02:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/nissan-to-invest-600-million-to-make-march-two-other-models-in-mexico.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Nissan Motor
Co.  will invest a combined $1.2 billion to expand production in
Latin America amid growing regional and export demand.  
 Toyota is spending $600 million on a new car plant in the
Brazilian state of Sao Paulo, the company said in a  statement ,
and Nissan is spending the same amount to expand Mexican
production to build three new models, Chief Executive Officer
 Carlos Ghosn  said in Mexico City yesterday.  
 Mexican vehicle production more than doubled in June from a
year earlier as the country exported a record number of vehicles,
mostly to the U.S. and Europe. Earlier this month General Motors
Co. said sales in Brazil may surge 68 percent to 1 million
vehicles by 2014 as growth in Latin America’s largest economy
stokes demand.  
 Toyota will start building 70,000 units a year of a new
compact car from the second half of 2012 at the Sao Paulo plant.
Nissan will produce 300,000 units of the March compact, a four-
door sedan and a five-door multipurpose vehicle a year in Mexico,
80 percent of which will be distributed in the Americas, Ghosn
said. Production of the March will begin next year, he said.  
 Twenty percent of the new models will be sold in Mexico,
Ghosn said, boosting Nissan’s 23.5 percent market share there.
Nissan has the largest share in Mexico and was the No. 1
producer of vehicles there last year, with 355,414 units.  
 “This market share is not only sustainable but should
continue to grow,” Ghosn told reporters in Mexico City.  
 “Record Year”  
 While globally automakers will have a “record year” in
2010, producing as many as 70 million vehicles, industry sales
in Europe will drop 7 percent to 9 percent, Ghosn said. He
forecast Nissan and partner Renault SA, which has a controlling
stake in the Japanese automaker, will sell a combined 7 million
vehicles worldwide this year.  
 Ghosn also said Mexico’s rising drug-fueled violence is
“not an obstacle” to investing in the country. The company has
taken “minor” precautions, he said.  
 GM surpassed Nissan as the largest producer of autos in
Mexico this year. In the first five months, GM produced 234,940
vehicles compared with 190,173 for Nissan, according to
statistics from the Mexican Auto Industry Association.  
 For the first five months of the year, Nissan produced
56,162 autos for sale in Mexico. GM produced 48,216 in Mexico
for sale in the local market.  
 Supply Disruption  
 Ghosn declined to say how much Nissan will lose in sales
from a parts-supply disruption that caused it to halt production
at plants in Japan and the U.S. for three days.  
 “I hope that the damage and shortage of sales and
production will be very limited,” he said. “When we reach a
number that is solid, we’ll communicate it.”  
 The carmaker, based in Yokohama, is losing 15,000 units of
production from the shutdown in Japan. The disruption was caused
by a supplier to  Hitachi Ltd.  that couldn’t deliver integrated
circuits for engine control units on time, Tokyo-based Hitachi
said earlier this week.  
 The company is conducting an inquiry on the root cause of
the supply disruption, Ghosn said, adding that Nissan’s just-in-
time production system of taking delivery of components without
stocking inventories is unlikely to be challenged.  
 Nissan plans to resume production at the plants in Japan on
July 19 and the following day at the U.S. factories, Yokohama-
based spokesman  Toshitake Inoshita  said by phone today.  
 Geneva-based STMicroelectronics NV, a maker of microchips,
is the vendor to Hitachi, the Nikkei newspaper reported July 14.
Keiko Sako, a spokeswoman for STMicroelectronics in Tokyo,
declined to confirm the company’s supply contract to Hitachi.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;  Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
8482 or  mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Carlos Ghosn, chief executive officer of Nissan Motor Co. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
