-- Obama Appointees May Solidify `Worrisome' Partisan  U.S. High Court Split
-- Greg Stohr
-- 2010-07-16T18:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/obama-court-appointees-may-solidify-worrisome-partisan-supreme-split.html

          
          
             The  U.S. Supreme Court  has long had
ideological divisions. Senate confirmation of  Elena Kagan  may
give it a partisan split as well.  
 Kagan’s arrival could create an unprecedented party-based
alignment, with five Republican appointees often outvoting their
four Democratic colleagues. She would succeed the retired
Justice  John Paul Stevens , a Republican appointee who defied
party labels by aligning with the court’s liberals on abortion,
the death penalty, terrorism, campaign finance and gun rights.  
 A partisan divide would punctuate a decades-long trend
fueled by the increasingly contentious appointment and
confirmation process. It would be a new dynamic for a court that
has traditionally sought to keep its distance from the
partisanship that pervades the other two branches of government.  
 “To an astonishing extent, a Republican appointment versus
a Democratic appointment is going to explain a lot about their
votes,” said  Christopher L. Eisgruber , the provost of Princeton
University in New Jersey and the author of a  book  on the Supreme
Court appointment process. “And that’s worrisome when the court
becomes an extension of partisan politics.”  
 Confirmation of Kagan, President  Barack Obama ’s second high
court nominee, would put four Democratic appointees on the court
for the first time since 1971. It would come a year after Obama
nominee  Sonia Sotomayor  succeeded  David Souter , another
Republican selection who often voted with his Democratic
colleagues.  
 Partisan Divide  
 Kagan would join a court that divided almost along party
lines this year in 5-4 rulings that struck down limits on
corporate campaign spending -- prompting criticism from Obama in
his State of the Union address -- and required states and cities
to respect gun rights.  
 In each case, the majority consisted of five Republican
appointees -- Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices  Antonin Scalia ,  Clarence Thomas ,  Samuel Alito  and  Anthony Kennedy  --with
Stevens and Democratic appointees Sotomayor,  Stephen Breyer  and
 Ruth Bader Ginsburg  in the minority. Barring illness, that five-
vote majority is likely to hold sway for some time given that no
Republican has voiced interest in retiring.  
 Until now, the court has always had justices who crossed
party lines. When the court struck down parts of Democratic
President  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal in the 1930s, it did so
over objections from Republican appointees  Benjamin Cardozo  and
 Harlan Fiske Stone .  
 Supporting Civil Rights  
 And when the court buttressed civil rights and limited
police power starting in the 1950s, Republican appointees
including Chief Justice  Earl Warren  and Justice  William Brennan 
were in the vanguard -- at times over the dissent of Democratic
appointee  Byron White .  
 President  Dwight Eisenhower  nominated Warren, the
Republican governor of California, in 1953 and four years later
selected Brennan, a Democrat. President  John F. Kennedy 
appointed White in 1962.  
 “Presidents have always paid attention to ideology,”
Eisgruber said. The difference now is that “they’re paying more
attention to it and they’re getting better at predicting what
their nominees will do.”  
 Sotomayor so far is a prime example. The newest justice
agreed with fellow Democratic appointees Breyer and Ginsburg in
about 80 percent of the non-unanimous cases during her first
term, according to the  Scotusblog  website, which  tracks  the
court. By comparison, Sotomayor agreed with Scalia, Thomas and
Alito in about 40 percent of those cases.  
 Democratic Group  
 Kagan’s career suggests she will join the Democratic group
more often than not. She served for four years in President  Bill Clinton ’s White House, working to support abortion rights,
bolster weapons restrictions and authorize federal regulation of
tobacco.  
 “My views are generally progressive,” the lifelong
Democrat said at her confirmation hearing in June.  
 Unity among Republican appointees can be more elusive,
largely because of Kennedy, who has joined the liberals in
backing some restrictions on the death penalty and in bolstering
the rights of wartime detainees.  
 Perhaps more so than any other justice, the 74-year-old
Kennedy will determine the depth of the partisan divide. Kennedy
may be decisive should the court take up cases involving gay
marriage and Obama’s health-care overhaul.  
 The partisan divide is a product of the ideological
uniformity that has developed within the two parties, said  Mark Tushnet , a constitutional law professor at Harvard Law School.
Conservative Southern Democrats and liberal-to-moderate
Republicans no longer are enough of a force in their respective
parties to secure a Supreme Court nomination, he said.  
 Confirmation Votes  
 “The phenomenon reflects what’s happening in the
parties,” Tushnet said. “And probably the best evidence of
that is the emergence, seemingly permanent, of sharp partisan
divisions in the Senate’s confirmation votes.”  
 Indeed, Sotomayor  received  only nine Republican votes and
Alito got just four Democratic votes, and so far no Republican
has announced support for Kagan. Roberts received 22 Democratic
votes in 2005.  
 Of course, justices always have the potential to surprise,
and Kagan is no exception. The 50-year-old may serve for
decades, giving her plenty of time to diverge from Obama and
from her fellow Democratic appointees on at least some issues.  
 “Sotomayor and, if confirmed, Kagan, have not weighed in
on many of these questions,” said Adam Winkler, a
constitutional law professor at the University of California at
Los Angeles. “We may assume they will vote a particular way,
but that’s just an assumption.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Stohr  in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court Elena Kagan. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
