-- Batista's OGX Reports First Dry Hole After Move to More Risky Brazil Site
-- Peter Millard
-- 2010-07-16T14:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/ogx-drills-first-non-commercial-well-in-brazil-s-off-shore-santos-basin.html

          
          
             OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
the oil company controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , reported
its first dry well after striking crude at all of its previous
sites as it moved into more difficult waters off Brazil’s coast.  
 Data from the 1-OGX-12-SPS well in the BM-S-57 block in
shallow waters of the Santos Basin show “the occurrence of
hydrocarbons isn’t commercial,” OGX said today in a regulatory
filing. OGX holds 100 percent of the concession for the field.  
 OGX fell 1.5 percent to 17.73 reais at 11:49 a.m. in Sao
Paulo. The company, which doesn’t yet produce any oil and has a
market value of 58.2 billion reais ($32.9 billion), has mostly
focused on the nearby Campos Basin, where more than 80 percent
of Brazil’s oil is pumped. The concentration of salt in Santos
fields makes it harder to read seismic data, said Wagner Freire,
a former Petroleo Brasileiro SA exploration manager.  
 OGX “is very speculative -- it doesn’t produce anything,”
said  Luiz Augusto Pacheco  an analyst at Omar Camargo Corretora
in Curitiba, Brazil. “It’s like buying an apartment before the
construction. There’s a risk that the construction isn’t
completed.”  
 Shares Fall  
 Before today,  OGX  shares rallied 64 percent in the past
year, more than twice the 30 percent gain for Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa index. OGX has previously announced 14 successful wells.  
 “It’s quite difficult to have a 100 percent successful
campaign,”  Andres Kikuchi , an analyst at brokerage Link
Corretora, said in a telephone interview. “If it had happened
in Campos, that could be a concern for the company.”  
 OGX, which first sold shares in 2008, assembled a team of
former geologists from Petrobras when it sought to drill its
first exploration well in 2009. OGX, betting it could replicate
the state-run company’s success in the area, has set a
production target of 1.4 million barrels a day by 2019, more
than half of Brazil’s current output.  
 Petrobras has said its Tupi field, in the Santos Basin, may
hold as much as 8 billion barrels of crude oil, making it the
biggest discovery in the Americas since 1976.  
 OGX plans to drill 27 wells this year, according to its
website. The company’s exploration plan includes 79 wells at 29
blocks through 2013, including five in the Santos Basin.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Millard  in Rio de Janeiro at  at
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        