-- Oil Adviser Giffen to Return to Court for 20th Time in Kazakh Bribe Case
-- David Glovin
-- 2010-07-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/oil-consultant-giffen-returns-to-court-in-delayed-kazakhstan-bribery-case.html

          
          
             Oil consultant  Jim Giffen  was told
by a U.S. judge six months after his 2003 arrest in an
international bribery scheme that he would go on trial in the
fall of 2004. He’s still waiting.  
 Since his arrest 7 1/2 years ago as he was preparing to
board a flight to Kazakhstan, Giffen, 69, has denied federal
charges that he paid bribes to leaders of the former Soviet
republic to facilitate oil transactions. Giffen, an American
citizen, says U.S. intelligence agencies condoned his actions or
gave him reason to believe they did.  
 Now, his lawyers and prosecutors are fighting over whether
the defense is entitled to see classified U.S. documents that
may help Giffen at a trial. The delay has spawned conspiracy
theories from critics of the Kazakh government, which in 2002
sought to limit the U.S. probe according to court records.
Lawyers outside the case speculate whether the U.S. remains
committed to it.  
 “It’s wholly inappropriate,”  Michael Perlis , a lawyer at
 Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP  in Los Angeles, said in an
interview. Perlis helped draft the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act, the U.S. anti-bribery law at the center of the Giffen case,
while at the Securities and Exchange Commission in the 1970s.
“Either get your case going or get rid of it.”  
 Giffen, who worked as an intermediary in Kazakhstan in the
1990s for U.S. companies including Mobil Oil Corp., was
scheduled yesterday to appear for at least the 20th time in
federal court in Manhattan. That court conference was
rescheduled for July 29.  
 A resident of the New York suburb of Mamaroneck in
Westchester County, Giffen was charged in March 2003 with
funneling $84 million to leaders of the Central Asian republic,
including current President  Nursultan Nazarbayev . Mobil, now
part of Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. , isn’t accused of
wrongdoing.  
 Tengiz Field  
 According to prosecutors, Giffen paid bribes to facilitate
six oil deals, including Mobil’s purchase of a stake in
Kazakhstan’s Tengiz field, one of the world’s largest.
Prosecutors in 2004 publicly identified Nazarbayev, a U.S. ally,
as a recipient of Giffen’s alleged payments.  
 The case was among the largest FCPA prosecutions ever when
prosecutors launched it, signaling the expansion of U.S. anti-
corruption efforts worldwide. The American law bars companies or
individuals working in the U.S. from paying bribes to foreign
officials to win business.  
 Last year, the Justice Department won convictions in three
FCPA prosecutions: a 2005 case over bribes in Azerbaijan, a 2007
case dealing in part with payments to a high-ranking Nigerian
official, and a 2008 case over bribes in Thailand.  
 Daimler, ENI  
 In March, Daimler AG, the Stuttgart, Germany-based maker of
Mercedes-Benz cars, agreed to pay $93.6 million to settle a U.S.
bribery probe. Alcatel-Lucent SA, the world’s biggest supplier
of fixed-line phone networks, agreed to pay $137.4 million in
February.  
 On July 7,  ENI SpA  and a former Dutch subsidiary agreed to
pay $365 million to resolve claims that they bribed Nigerian
government officials to win construction contracts.  
 The Giffen case, which predates all of those prosecutions,
remains stalled. Five scheduled trial dates have passed without
action.  
 The delays included a one-year hiatus while an appeals
court weighed whether Giffen may claim at his trial that U.S.
intelligence services, including the Central Intelligence
Agency, authorized him to pay off Kazakh leaders. Since then,
prosecutors have fought to withhold or redact scores of
classified documents, forcing the trial judge to launch a review
of each one without the participation of Giffen or his lawyers.  
 ‘Speaking in Tongues’  
 “I recognize that we might as well be speaking in tongues
for the defendant,” U.S. District Judge  William Pauley  said at
the last court conference, on April 13, as prosecutors offered
vague details about the possible disclosure of 80 documents.  
 There’s also a dispute over whether Giffen himself may read
documents once they are turned over to the defense, as Pauley
wrestles with provisions of the federal Classified Information
Procedures Act. Meanwhile, U.S. agencies have moved very slowly
in turning over documents to Justice Department lawyers,
according to statements in court by the judge and prosecutors.  
 “The government started this prosecution,” Pauley said in
court on April 13. “And the government agencies can’t sit back
and be recalcitrant about their obligations.”  
 Giffen’s lawyer,  William Schwartz  of  Cooley LLP  in New
York, declined to comment. In court in September 2008, Schwartz
raised the possibility that he would seek a dismissal because
the delay in document disclosure has compromised Giffen’s right
to a speedy trial. He hasn’t done so.  
 ‘Very Unsettling’  
 In court in April, Schwartz refused to consent to a
prosecutor’s request for another postponement, called the
process “very unsettling.” He urged Pauley to summon lawyers
for government agencies to a meeting to hash out whether Giffen
may see specific documents.  
 The issue is expected to be addressed again at the July 29
conference. Yusill Scribner, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara  in Manhattan -- the fifth top prosecutor to
oversee the case since Giffen’s 2003 arrest -- declined to
comment, as did Paula Weiss, a spokeswoman for the CIA.  
 Richard Dean, a lawyer at  Baker & McKenzie LLP  in
Washington whose practice focuses on the FCPA and isn’t involved
in the case, said there’s a growing sense among attorneys that
the Giffen case will never reach a jury.  
 ‘String it Out’  
 “The general lesson is the longer you can string it out,
the better the chances the government will lose interest, that
it becomes too hard,” Dean said in an interview. “It’s almost
always the case that delay is the friend of the defense.”  
 Perlis, who also isn’t involved in the Giffen case, said it
has taught him that, while prosecutors will be tenacious in
pursuing FCPA allegations, it’s possible for individual
defendants to fight charges.  
 “If you can afford it, and if you have an arguable case,
fight,” he said.  
 Unnamed officials in Kazakhstan urged the U.S. to limit the
Giffen probe, according to court records and a judge’s ruling in
2002 in a related dispute before the charges were filed. Reid
Weingarten, a lawyer for Kazakhstan, told the Justice Department
in a letter that year that the country’s relations with the U.S.
would deteriorate if prosecutors pursued an investigation of
Kazakh officials.  
 Peter Zalmayev, who heads the  Eurasia Democracy Initiative ,
a New York-based non-governmental organization that promotes
human rights in Central Asia, said he began to suspect that
delays in Giffen’s case were intentional after President  George W. Bush  met with Nazarbayev in 2006 to discuss ways to expand
U.S. access to Kazakh oil. He believes the prosecution is
stalled because of the influence of  GlobalOptions Group Inc. , a
crisis management firm.  
 GlobalOptions  
 Morton Taubman , an attorney for GlobalOptions, said the New
York-based company didn’t interfere with Giffen’s case.  
 He said GlobalOptions was hired by a London-based firm that
represented a Kazakh company controlled by Nazarbayev’s
daughter, World Media Corp., to retain lawyers to monitor the
Giffen case.  
 “We weren’t representing Kazakhstan,” Taubman said in a
phone interview.  
 Zhanbolat Ussenov, a spokesman for Kazakhstan’s embassy in
Washington, declined to comment on the Giffen case.  
 Zalmayev said in an interview that Giffen’s case should
“send a signal to corrupt dictators elsewhere in the region
that they will be scrutinized.”  
 He said he fears corrupt officials may draw a different
conclusion. “You can buy expensive lobbyists in Washington to
absolve you, and that will be a crying shame.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Giffen, 03-CR-00404, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        