-- Mortgage-Bond Yields That Guide Home-Loan Rates Decline to Record Low
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-16T18:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/mortgage-bond-yields-that-guide-home-loan-rates-decline-to-record-low.html

          
          
             Yields on  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
mortgage securities that guide home-loan rates dropped to a new
low, as companies from Bank of America Corp. to General Electric
Co. reported revenue that missed estimates and a slump in
consumer confidence fanned concern the economic rebound is
slowing.  
 Fannie Mae’s current-coupon 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage 
bonds tumbled 0.1 percentage point to 3.54 percent as of 2 p.m.
in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
down from this year’s high of 4.67 percent on April 5.  
 Yields on agency mortgage securities fell more quickly than
those on benchmark 10-year Treasury rates as investors sought
the safest types of debt. Spreads moved closer to a record low
set when the Federal Reserve bought $1.25 trillion to bolster
housing and financial markets under an unprecedented program
that ended in March.  
 “Mortgage performance remains resilient as demand
continues to outpace rather limited origination,” Barclays Plc
analysts led by  Ajay Rajadhyaksha  in New York said today in a
report. “While the recent rally in rates has spurred concerns
that issuance could pick up sharply, these fears have thus far
failed to materialize.”  
 The difference between yields on the Fannie Mae securities
and 10-year Treasuries narrowed 0.05 percentage point to 0.61
percentage point, Bloomberg data show. The spread reached 0.59
percentage point, the lowest on record, on March 29, two days
before the Fed’s program ended.  
 The $5.2 trillion market for agency mortgage securities is
made up of those guaranteed by government-supported Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, or federal agency Ginnie Mae. Current-coupon
bonds, or those trading closest to face value, are guiding rates
on almost all new U.S. home lending following the collapse of
the non-agency market and a retreat by banks.  
 The  average rate  on a typical 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
held at a record low 4.57 percent in the week ended yesterday,
down from this year’s high of 5.21 percent in April, according
to McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        