-- Total Fined $9.5 Million for 2005 Explosion at Buncefield Depot in U.K.
-- James Lumley
-- 2010-07-16T12:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/total-fined-5-5-million-over-2005-explosion-at-buncefield-u-k-oil-depot.html

          
          
             Total SA , Europe’s third-largest oil
company, must pay 6.2 million pounds ($9.5 million) in fines and
legal costs for its part in a 2005  explosion  at an oil storage
depot outside of London.  
 Five companies must pay a total of 9.43 million pounds in
fines and costs, Judge  David Calvert-Smith  said in the criminal
case at St. Albans Crown Court, near London, today.  
 The depot, 25 miles (40 kilometers) north of London, blew
up Dec. 11, 2005, in what the British government described as a
blast “of massive proportions.” More than 20 tanks of jet fuel
and gasoline exploded, injuring 40 people and causing widespread
damage to buildings in the surrounding area.  
 “The failures which led in particular to the explosion
were failures which could have combined to produce these
consequences at almost any hour of any day,” Calvert-Smith
said. The fact that the accident occurred at “one minute past 6
on a Sunday morning was little short of miraculous.”  
 Hertfordshire Oil Storage Ltd., a joint venture of Total
and  Chevron Corp.  that ran the facility, was also fined 1.45
million pounds and must pay an additional 1 million pounds in
legal costs.  
 Paris-based Total said in a statement that it fully accepts
responsibility “for the events that took place at Buncefield in
2005.”  
 Devastating Consequences  
 “We fully accept and recognize the devastating
consequences that the incident has had on the surrounding
communities and businesses,” Lee Young, Total U.K. Head of
Legal and company secretary, said in the statement. “This was
an unprecedented incident from which we and the industry have
learnt many lessons.”  
 The company’s fine, of 3.6 million pounds, was reduced by
40 percent for pleading guilty in the case. It must also pay 2.6
million pounds in legal costs.  
 The explosion caused around 1 billion pounds of
damage, Kevin Myers, deputy chief executive of the Health &
Safety Executive, said in a press briefing July 14.  
 It was caused when the safety mechanisms on a storage tank
failed, causing it to overflow and spill about 250,000 liters of
gasoline, according to the Health & Safety Executive and the
 U.K. Environment Agency .  
 “Accidents like the explosion at Buncefield are
exceptionally rare, but they shouldn’t happen at all,” said
 Gordon MacDonald , a director at the Health & Safety Executive,
said after the verdict. “The industry should be in no doubt
that we will always seek to prosecute those who put lives at
risk and cause serious pollution.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        