-- House's Frank Says Congress Should Press $90 Billion Bank Tax (Transcript)
-- Editors: [bn:PRSN=1] Lawrence Roberts []
-- 2010-07-16T20:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/house-s-frank-says-congress-should-press-90-billion-bank-tax-transcript-.html

          
          
             House Financial Services Committee
Chairman  Barney Frank  said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this
weekend that Congress should pursue President  Barack Obama ’s
plan for a $90 billion bank tax to recover funds from the $700
billion bailout fund.  
 (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  
 AL HUNT: And we start the program with Chairman Barney
Frank of the House Financial Services Committee. Thank you, for
being with us, Mr. Chairman.  
 REP. BARNEY FRANK: Thank you.  
 HUNT: We’re going to talk about this landmark bill in a
minute. But on Thursday, the SEC and Goldman Sachs settled the
fraud suit. Goldman paid $550 million. That’s pocket change for
the firm, though, two weeks’ profits. You’ve now had time to
read and hear about the case. Did Goldman get off too easy?  
 FRANK: Well, I have not read in great -- with specificity.
I’m aware of it in general. I would say this. First of all, it
is clearly an acknowledgement by Goldman that they had done
things they shouldn’t have done, the original notion.  
 And by the way, if you remember, there was this Republican
view that this was all a plot by the Obama administration to get
us votes for the financial reform bill. And I assume everybody
understands how nonsensical that charge was. That is if this was
a wholly-made-up-for-political-purposes case, Goldman would not
have given in. Beyond that, I have to look at the specifics,
including what in addition to the fine is there. Are there any…  
 HUNT: Would you hold any hearings on it? You are the -- you
are the committee with oversight on it.  
 FRANK: After the fact, it’s possible. Look, we just
recovered from the financial bailout, and I have just now begun
-- I’m still in Washington today because we’re still trying to
work it out.  
 You know, I ran into this period where every time  Chris Dodd  called me, all I thought was, “Oh, my God, he’s got another
senator with a problem because I’m not going to reopen the
conference again, am I?” So, I’m just now starting to focus
on...  
 HUNT: On that bill, the biggest rewrite of Wall Street
rules since the Depression, critics - you’ve heard this, say
unintended consequences, maybe consumers will pay more for
checking accounts, mortgages, and there may be less credit.  
 FRANK: Oh, absolutely not. Well, first of all, will there
be less credit? I hope so. I hope there’ll be subprime loans. I
hope there will be less credit default swaps. And I don’t
understand when people say there should be less credit, do they
not understand that unrestricted credit without any backup was a
big part of this problem?  
 AIG was engaged in too much credit. And, yes, we are going
to restrict the amount of leverage that can go out there.
Subprime loans, many of us have been trying for years to
restrict subprime loans.  
 HUNT: But, it’s not going to hurt small businesses who need
…  
 FRANK: No. There’s nothing in there that hurts small
business that -- in the first place, the Consumer Bureau is
going to be dealing with the individuals. By the way, when we
passed the individual bill to restrict credit-card abuses, one
of the most conservative organizations in America generally, the
National Federation of Independent Business, the small-business
…  
 HUNT: Right.  
 FRANK: … endorsed the bill, gave the members credit for
voting for that bill and discredit for voting against it. So,
small businesses are also hurt by these practices.  
 HUNT: And yet,  John Boehner , your Republican leader, says
what we’re going to do is we have to repeal this bill. If
Republicans get control of the House, do you think they’ll
repeal this bill?  
 FRANK: No. I think Mr. Boehner’s reflexive right-wing
rhetoric isn’t taken seriously by anybody.  
 But as far as small-business lending, I do agree there’s
been a constriction there, but not because of anything we did
legislatively.  
 In fact, we have done some things that will help the
smaller banks. The independent community banks, for example, the
Independent Community Bankers association put out a statement
noting the extent to which this bill helps the community banks,
which have been unfairly blamed because they -- they didn’t do
any of -- very much of the bad stuff vis-a-vis the bigger banks.  
 So we are trying to encourage that, and we are trying to
get the regulators -- here’s our problem with the smaller bank
loans -- I’ll finish with this, Al. The regulators -- the bank
examiners have been told to be tough.  
 No bank examiner has ever been yelled at for a loan that
should have been made and wasn’t made. They get blamed when
loans that shouldn’t have been made were made. There’s a culture
of bank examiners, I think, that’s too much on the tight side,
and now we need to get them to loosen up a little.  
 HUNT: Well, that -- that gets to the question of
implementation of this bill, which is critical. Already, bank
lobbyists are calculating they’re going to do better behind
closed doors. What -- what worries you here the most? And what
are you going to do to keep the regulators’ feet to the fire?  
 FRANK: Well, what worries me is the Democrats might lose
the 2012 election because, to be honest, this is a part …  
 HUNT: 2010?  
 FRANK: No, ‘12.  
 HUNT: 2012, okay …  
 FRANK: Because, I say ‘12 because these are things that are
now in the hands of executive branch officials. And I say that
because who’s going to implement this? A new appointee to
Consumer Bureau, I hope it’s  Elizabeth Warren , a thoughtful …  
 HUNT: Do you think it will be?  
 FRANK: I don’t know, but I am pushing hard for that.
Whoever it is, it will be someone who takes this seriously. You
have  Sheila Bair  at the FDIC, a tough, smart regulator. You have
 Mary Schapiro  at the SEC. I believe you have regulators in place
now. That is the people who are going to implement this at first
are people who believe in it, who helped shape it,  Gary Gensler 
at the CFTC.  
 So, that’s why I say I worry about 2012. I am completely
confident that the current regulators, and there’ll be a new
national bank regulator, they will all be people who have a
commitment to make this work the way it was supposed to and who
helped draft it.  
 HUNT: Mr. Chairman, any chance Congress will act on the
Obama proposed $90 billion bank tax?  
 FRANK: I hope so.  
 HUNT: This year?  
 FRANK: I hope so. I don’t understand how members can say
they’re for reducing the deficit and then let Goldman Sachs and
JPMorgan Chase off the hook entirely. They were the major
beneficiaries of the intervention. Now, it was to do the whole
economy, not them, but they benefited.  
 Many of them had engaged in activities they shouldn’t have.
Look, you just said, Al, $500 million, that’s pocket change for
Goldman Sachs. Well, I agree. We were talking about asking all
of them to put up a couple of billion here collectively.  
 Yes, there’s money there that could go forward that would
not hurt the economy, and I hope it will go forward. I --
unfortunately, some of the Republicans opposed the book. You saw
what happened. We couldn’t get 60 Republicans in the Senate …  
 HUNT: Right.  
 FRANK: … for a 19 -- so the senators, for a $19 billion
thing. But, I’ve talked to  Sandy Levin . I’m urging him to go
forward. And let me put this -- I just had a conversation with
the Secretary of the Treasury about, frankly, whether or not we
should renew the effort to get some fees out of our bill. And
the answer I got was, “No. Hold off, because we’re trying to get
a -- rewrite of our bank text.”  
 HUNT: So, they’re going to push hard?  
 FRANK: That’s it -- I mean, I literally withheld trying to
get back that $19 billion…  
 HUNT: Right.  
 FRANK: … because it could -- it would be better to get the
larger amount.  
 HUNT: Let me ask you this. Separate issue, but the Bush tax
cuts expire this year. Should they be extended?  
 FRANK: Many of them not, I think for the middle-income and
below, yes, but I was very pleased to see that Bloomberg
interview with  Alan Greenspan  where he said, “No.” I think
Alan is being an intellectually honest conservative here.  
 Look. We had this test, but does it hurt the economy if you
raise taxes by a fairly small amount, 3 percent, from 36 percent
to 39 percent on income above $200,000?  
 HUNT: Right.  
 FRANK: When  Bill Clinton  asked us to do that in 1993 and we
did, we got these predictions that it would be terrible for the
economy. They were simply, flatly wrong. There was no negative
effective whatsoever from raising the top marginal rate.  
 Bush got it lowered and we got no economic benefit, unless
you happen to have that money. I believe that that’s absolutely
right, that with regards to the estate the tax and with regard
to incomes above $200,000, and I honor Alan Greenspan for
breaking with the kind of right-wing, knee-jerk ideology in
saying so.  
 HUNT: You’re going to deal with Fannie and Freddie next
year. The emerging consensus it seems is, “Let’s not get rid of
them, but let’s allow private banks to compete with them for
government guarantees.” Is that where you’re headed?  
 FRANK: Well, I’m - I’m not - I may be a little harsher
toward them.  
 Here’s the problem with keeping them. This hybrid form in
which you have private-share, holder-owned entities that also
have a public mission doesn’t work. I think you have to separate
them out. Yes, there’s room for a shareholder-owned corporation.
To the extent that we want subsidy, I think we have to separate
it out.  
 I - I think I’m more on the side now of trying to separate
out this hybrid thing. But, we will start it - I’ll tell you,
make an announcement now. When we come back in September, we’ll
have several weeks, not enough time to pass a bill but enough to
time to write one, I believe we should go out of here with the
version of what’s going to replace it.  
 We will now begin with the rhetoric of politics behind us
as this bill is passed figure out what set of arrangements
replaces it current one.  
 HUNT: No time for rest, Chairman Frank. Thank you so much
for being with us today.  
 FRANK: Thank you, Al.  
 For Related News and Information:
Government relief programs: GGRP <GO>
Stories on Congress: CNG <GO>
Stories on banks: NI BNK <GO>
Today’s top financial stories:  FTOP <GO>
  
          
          


  


        