-- Toymaking Delay in China Narrows Naphtha's Premium to Oil: Energy Markets
-- Ann Koh
-- 2010-07-16T03:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/toymaking-delay-in-china-narrows-naphtha-s-premium-to-oil-energy-markets.html

          
          
             Asian prices for  naphtha  fell to a
10-month low relative to crude oil as Chinese toy manufacturers
hold back orders for raw materials used to make plastic and wait
for consumer spending in Europe to rebound.  
 The price of benchmark naphtha for delivery to Japan fell
0.8 percent to $631.25 a ton yesterday, making it $57 more than
Brent crude, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
premium is down 61 percent from $147 in December and is the
lowest for any July since 2005.  
 Demand for naphtha, which is used to make chemicals and
plastics in keyboards and  Barbie dolls , typically rises at the
start of August as Asian toymakers boost production for the
year-end holidays, according to Washington-based PFC Energy Inc.
This year, manufacturers are holding off as tax increases and
 unemployment  sap orders from Europe, the destination for about
20 percent of China’s exports.  
 “The production ramp-up is expected to occur toward the
end of August or beginning of September this year as poor demand
from Europe is weighing on Asian producers,” said Nathan
Schaffer, a director at PFC Energy.  
 The difference, or crack spread, for naphtha relative to
crude has widened in August in three of the past four years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The exception was in
2008, at the height of the global financial crisis.  
 Naphtha prices have fallen 14 percent this year, while
crude futures in New York have lost 3.2 percent. Prices of
injection-grade polypropylene, a resin used in toy production,
are down 11.5 percent, data from ICIS pricing showed.  
 ‘Hate’ Cutting Toys  
 The decline in demand for plastics may still be limited as
purchases pick up toward the end of the year, according to  Sean McGowan , a New York-based analyst at Needham & Co. who covers
toymakers including Hasbro Inc. and Mattel Inc.  
 “Parents hate to cut back on toys,” he said.  
 Traders may send shipments of naphtha  to Asia from Europe 
should the crack spread widen, adding to a glut of the commodity,
said  Jim Weinrauch , an industry consultant at Naphtha
Information Services Pte in Singapore.  
 “Asia doesn’t need the West for supply,”  Weinrauch  said.
“It’s always a possibility, of course, that the Asian crack
will rise at least temporarily if the region sees too many Arab
Gulf cargoes heading to the West.”  
 Asian and Middle East naphtha production has increased as
refiners resume operations following maintenance last month. JX
Holdings Inc. said on July 8 it will restart a 145,000 barrel-a-
day crude distillation unit at its Sendai, Japan, refinery on
July 11 following a month-long stoppage. Kuwait National
Petroleum Co. said on March 24 it may resume output at units in
Mina Abdulla after maintenance in April and June.  
 Europe Slowdown  
 Naphtha demand remains weak as retail  spending  in the 16-
nation euro region fell 0.4 percent in the first five months of
the year, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said on July 5.  Unemployment  jumped to 10.1 percent in April,
the highest level in 12 years, the office reported on June 1.  
 Demand has also been hurt by evidence of slowing growth
outside Europe. China’s government said yesterday that  gross
domestic product  rose 10.3 percent in the second quarter, less
than the rate forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The
U.S. Federal Reserve said in minutes of its June meeting
published this week the risks to the outlook “shifted to the
downside.”  
 “Aside from the bank-related concerns in Europe, the major
issues are an apparent slowdown in the growth rate in China and
fear that falling consumer confidence and decreasing money
supplies in the U.S. may result in a deflationary cycle,”
analysts at Purvin & Gertz Inc. led by Singapore-based  Ravi Narayanaswamy  wrote in a monthly report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ann Koh  in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Barbie dolls, made by Mattel Inc., Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
