-- Toyota Educates Customers as Floor Mat Alert Ignored
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-16T20:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/toyota-focuses-on-customer-education-as-drivers-ignore-floor-mat-warnings.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp. ’s U.S. sales
chief said many owners still ignore warnings not to stack floor
mats beneath accelerator pedals and wants dealers to familiarize
buyers with model features so they’re not mistaken for flaws.  
 The world’s largest automaker has discussed unintended
acceleration concerns with as many as 7,000 owners in the months
following record vehicle recalls for floor mats that could slip,
jamming accelerators, and for sticky gas pedals, said  Jim Lentz ,
president of Toyota’s U.S. unit. In some cases, people weren’t
familiar with how automatic cruise control worked, didn’t know
air-conditioners could boost engine revving or failed to remove
extra mats, he said in an interviewyesterday.  
 “A large number, I don’t know the exact result, but I’m
going to peg it at 15 percent, of vehicles we’re seeing have
multiple numbers of stacked floor mats, even now,” Lentz said.
“Six months ago we talked to customers about taking the floor
mat out, and six months later it’s still there.”  
 Toyota recalled more than 8 million autos worldwide in the
11 months since an off-duty California Highway Patrol officerand
his family were killed in August 2009 when the Lexus ES350 sedan
he was driving sped out of control near San Diego. Reviews by
Toyota and government investigators pinned the cause to a gas
pedal trapped by the floor mat, leading to a September 2009
warning that owners should remove driver’s side mats.  
 Subsequent recalls and four congressional hearings hurt the
Toyota City, Japan-based company’s reputation as a leader in
vehicle quality.  
 ‘Hit Bottom’  
 “There’s no question it hit bottom,” Lentz said. Still,
in the past 90 days, surveys conducted by Toyota of how
consumers view its quality show “a fairly strong recovery,”
particularly among repeat Toyota buyers, he said.  
 Toyota’s American depositary receipts, equal to two
ordinary shares, fell $1.65, or 2.3 percent, to $70.75 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They’ve
declined 16 percent this year. Toyota shares  fell  1.3 percent to
3,135 yen today in Tokyo.  
 “Toyota’s priority is to regain customers’ trust and
satisfy them with how they are handling safety,” said  Tadashi Usui , an analyst at Moody’s K.K. in Tokyo. “Educating customers
is one reasonable way to achieve that, but it may be difficult
to bring home the message.”  
 Rather than running through all features immediately after
the sale of a vehicle or expecting customers to read the owner’s
manual, Toyota wants dealers to be more flexible, Lentz said.
This includes making more information available on an owner
website and arranging follow-up training sessions at dealerships
around a customer’s schedule, he said.  
 Quality Control  
 Toyota President  Akio Toyoda  has pledged a comprehensive
overhaul of quality control steps.  
 “Even if the customer makes a mistake, we never want to
blame the customer,” Toyoda told reporters last week in Nagoya,
Japan. “If they make some error, it should not lead to any
fatal accident. That’s our ultimate goal.”  
 The company this week said that in accidents involving
unintended acceleration where motorists said they’d pressed the
brake pedal, in “virtually all” cases drivers pushed the
accelerator instead, based on reviews of data collected by
vehicle computers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     James "Jim" Lentz, president and chief operating officer of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc., speaks during an automotive forum in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
