-- Pakistan, India Foreign Ministers Expose Deep Divisions Over Peace Talks
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-07-16T11:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/pakistan-india-foreign-ministers-expose-deep-divisions-over-peace-talks.html

          
          
             The foreign ministers of Pakistan
and India today publicly exposed the gulf between their
countries’ positions on how to rebuild a peace process
struggling to recover from the 2008 Mumbai attacks.  
 Pakistan’s  Shah Mahmood Qureshi  and his Indian counterpart,
 S.M. Krishna , yesterday held seven hours of talks in Islamabad,
and while they agreed to meet again, no date was set. A joint
press conference was devoid of any new trust-building
announcement.  
 “During the discussions, we received an impression that
India was not psychologically prepared,” Qureshi told reporters
at an unexpected briefing in Islamabad today. “They were
selective in topics, while we wanted to discuss all the
issues,” including the disputed Siachen glacier, Jammu and
Kashmir and terrorism.  
 Arriving in New Delhi, Krishna said that, while the two men
discussed a range of issues, he told Qureshi that an “all out
effort” to stop guerrillas from attacking India would go a long
way to restoring trust. Not doing so would render “futile” all
other efforts to improve relations, he said.  
 India maintains that no return to the full-fledged talks of
2003 to 2008 is possible until Pakistan fully dismantles
terrorist groups on its soil, especially the Lashkar-e-Taiba
outfit that India blames for the Mumbai attacks. Still, recent
meetings between the two countries’ prime ministers, home
ministers and foreign secretaries were evidence of a thaw.  
 ‘State Actors’  
 Yesterday’s talks were clouded by fresh Indian claims of
official Pakistani involvement in the siege of its financial
center, a three-day assault by 10 Pakistani gunmen that killed
166 people.  
 While India blames Lashkar for the raid and has previously
suggested it may have been aided by “state actors,” Indian
Home Secretary G.K. Pillai was quoted in the  Indian Express 
newspaper July 14 as saying that officers from Pakistan’s main
spy agency “were literally controlling and coordinating it from
the beginning till the end.”  
 Qureshi said yesterday that Pillai’s claims were “uncalled
for” and undermined efforts to restore the peace process. “On
the eve of this dialogue, tell me to what extent” Pillai’s
remarks help, Qureshi said.  
 Improved ties between the nuclear-armed neighbors and
rivals of 60 years are key to U.S.-led efforts to fight
militancy in Pakistan and Afghanistan, where India and Pakistan
compete for influence.  
 Headley Probe  
 “As expected there was no breakthrough,” said D.  Suba Chandran , deputy director of the New Delhi-based Institute of
Peace & Conflict Studies. “Both sides are really not sincere to
take the peace process forward at this stage. They are holding
talks because of U.S. pressure.”  
 Krishna said yesterday that he would return to India in the
hope that the Pakistani government would follow up leads
provided by David Coleman Headley, a suspect in the Mumbai
attacks who is in U.S. custody.  
 If the talks focus only on the issue of terrorism, then it
will be difficult for Pakistan to “move forward,” Qureshi said,
adding he won’t call yesterday’s talks a “deadlock.”  
 Headley in March pleaded guilty in the U.S. to charges
arising from terrorism training and spying missions that he said
helped Pakistani militants linked to al-Qaeda plan attacks
abroad, including the one in Mumbai.  
 Economy Hit  
 Economic development in South Asia has suffered because of
rivalry between India and Pakistan, which account for four-
fifths of the region’s economy. India accuses Pakistan of
supporting armed extremists in Jammu and Kashmir, its only
Muslim-dominated state. Pakistan denies the charges and says it
offers only moral support to separatists.  
 Divided Kashmir, the cause of two of the neighbors’ three
wars, and the threat posed by militants remain the biggest
flashpoints. “It is not possible to delink Kashmir from the
negotiations,” Qureshi said today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        