-- Pakistan Says India's Spy Agency Claim Over Mumbai Attacks `Uncalled For'
-- Khaleeq Ahmed
-- 2010-07-16T05:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/pakistan-says-indian-accusation-spy-agency-plotted-mumbai-attack-unhelpful.html

          
          
             Pakistan Foreign Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi  said Indian claims its spy agency plotted the
2008 attacks on Mumbai were “uncalled for” and undermined
efforts to restore the peace process.  
 Qureshi and Indian counterpart  S.M. Krishna  yesterday held
seven hours of talks in Islamabad and agreed to meet again,
without setting a date. The session was extended in a sign of
warming ties, delaying a planned press briefing.  
 Indian mistrust of its neighbor intensified after the
Mumbai assault in which Pakistani gunmen killed 166 people.
Improved ties are key to U.S.-led efforts to fight militancy in
Pakistan and Afghanistan, and foster peace in the region.  
 “As expected there was no breakthrough,” said D.  Suba Chandran , deputy director of the New Delhi-based Institute of
Peace & Conflict Studies. “Both sides are really not sincere to
take the peace process forward at this stage. They are holding
talks because of U.S. pressure.”  
 Krishna said he would return to India in the hope that the
Pakistani government would follow up leads provided by David
Coleman Headley, a suspect in the Mumbai attacks who is in U.S.
custody. Krishna is the most senior Indian politician to visit
Pakistan since the Mumbai assault, which set back five years of
peace negotiations.  
 Pillai Accusation  
 Indian Home Secretary G.K. Pillai was quoted in the  Indian
Express  newspaper before the talks as saying that the Headley
interrogation showed Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence spy
agency had played a more significant role in the siege than
previously thought. Its officers “were literally controlling
and coordinating it from the beginning till the end,” the paper
quoted Pillai as saying.  
 “On the eve of this dialogue tell me to what extent”
Pillai’s remarks help, Qureshi said.  
 Headley in March pleaded guilty in the U.S. to charges
arising from terrorism training and spying missions that he said
helped Pakistani militants linked to al-Qaeda plan attacks
abroad, including the one in Mumbai.  
 India’s Home Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  visited
Pakistan last month as the nations sought to rekindle the peace
process. The U.S. wants better relations between the two
countries to support its strategy to defeat the Taliban in
Afghanistan, where India and Pakistan compete for influence.  
 “Pakistan would take the leads provided by the home
minister very seriously because we want to move on,” Qureshi
said.  
 Lashkar-e-Taiba  
 India has maintained that no return to full-fledged talks
is possible until Pakistan fully dismantles terrorist groups on
its soil, especially the Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit that India
blames for the Mumbai attacks.  
 Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  and Pakistani
counterpart  Yousuf Raza Gilani  agreed to step up dialogue during
a meeting in April in the Bhutanese capital.  
 Economic development in South Asia has suffered because of
rivalry between India and Pakistan, which account for four-
fifths of the region’s economy. India accuses Pakistan of
supporting armed extremists in Jammu and Kashmir, its only
Muslim-dominated state. Pakistan denies the charges and says it
offers only moral support to separatists.  
 Kashmir and the threat posed by militants remain the
biggest flashpoints. The five-year peace process restored
diplomatic, sporting and transport links, improving prospects
for progress on contentious issues such as the sharing of water
from major rivers.  
 Pakistan says it has begun a closed trial of some members
of Lashkar, formed to fight Indian rule in the divided Himalayan
territory of Kashmir, which is claimed in full by both countries.
India wants Pakistan to target the militant outfit’s chief,
 Hafiz Saeed .  
 “There are important issues including terrorism and they
should be addressed and we have to discuss them,” Qureshi said.
“We have agreed on the need to discuss important issues to make
the process meaningful.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
 Khaleeq Ahmed  in Islamabad at 
 paknews@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Economic development in South Asia has suffered  
                       
                         
                           Asad Zaidi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Pakistan's foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pakistan's foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi. Photographer: Asad Zaidi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
