-- Petrol's Expansion Program in Croatia Will Go Ahead, CEO Svetelsek Says
-- Boris Cerni
-- 2010-07-16T09:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/petrol-s-expansion-program-in-croatia-will-go-ahead-ceo-svetelsek-says.html

          
          
             Petrol Group d.d. , Slovenia’s
biggest energy company, said its expansion plans in Croatia
won’t be hampered if it loses the battle to buy Crobenz d.o.o.,
according to Chief Executive Officer  Aleksander Svetelsek .  
 “This won’t affect Petrol’s plans as this year we should
complete construction of up to seven new gas stations and
storage facilities in Croatia” he said in an interview in
Ljubljana yesterday after opening a petrol station. “We have
taken very seriously the bid for Crobenz and we have offered an
optimal price. If we lose, it will be a fair game.”  
 Petrol is vying with Russia’s  OAO Lukoil  and Slovakia’s
Slavia Capital Group for Crobenz, which has 14 motor-fuel
stations in the Adriatic Sea nation and is being sold by Ina
Industrija Nafte d.d. Lukoil offered the best price for Crobenz,
while Petrol’s bid was “too low,” Zagreb magazine Nacional
 reported  this week, without saying where it got the information.
Crobenz’s value is estimated at as much as 21 million euros ($27
million), analysts at Hypo Alpe-Adria Bank d.d. said in report.  
 Petrol , which has been buying rivals in the Balkans and
opening facilities, is seeking to benefit from Croatia’s coming
entrance into the European Union to increase sales with an aim
of becoming the leading motor-fuel retailer in former
Yugoslavia. Croatia is set to join the EU in 2012.  
 Profit Doubles  
 Slovenia’s  largest listed company  by revenue yesterday
reported profit in the first half more than doubled as losses on
its holding in Istrabenz d.d. weren’t repeated. Net income rose
to 22 million euros from 8.7 million a year earlier.  
 “The figures show that the company is on a good way to
recovery and building up a second profit source with the energy
business is an important risk diversification measure,”  Philipp Chladek , an analyst at Austria’s Raiffeisen Centrobank AG, wrote
in a note. “We expect a positive  market reaction  from this
publication and consider a potential recommendation upgrade.”  
 Petrol’s core oil-products trading business “shows a nice
sign of recovery” because of the gradual recovery of  industrial
production  in Slovenia, Chladek said.  
 Slovenia’s industrial output rose an annual 11.8 percent in
May, after a 9.7 percent gain the month before, statistics show.  
 Petrol’s Svetelsek expects the economies in the Balkan
region to grow as much as 2 percent, on average, this year.  
 “I will be very happy if the recovery is indeed slow,” he
said. “I would fear a quick rebound which would very likely
signal another steep economic decline in the near future.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Boris Cerni  in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        