-- Philippine Equities to Surpass Records This Year on Growth, Macquarie Says
-- Ian C. Sayson
-- 2010-07-16T03:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/philippine-equities-to-surpass-records-this-year-on-growth-macquarie-says.html

          
          
             The  Philippine stock index  will
extend a 30-month high and reach a record this year after
remittances accelerated and the central bank kept interest rates
unchanged, the nation’s biggest foreign-owned stock broker said.  
 The  benchmark  will rise to 3,900 in 2010 as economic
expansion gathers pace through next year, said  Alex Pomento , a
strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Manila unit. Banks and
builders will beat the index as record-low borrowing costs and
increased repatriation of funds from overseas Filipinos drive
demand for loans and homes, he said.  
 “Faster growth means stronger corporate earnings, robust
loan growth and a buoyant property market,” Pomento said in an
interview today. Macquarie handled 11 percent of Philippine
stock trades last month, the most among foreign brokerages.  
 The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  has risen 14 percent
this year, the second-best performer among the 12 biggest Asia
Pacific markets. The measure has retreated 0.8 percent from a
30-month high on July 14, and remains 11 percent below its all-
time high of 3,873.50 on Oct. 8, 2007.  
 Remittance growth quickened to 6.5 percent in May, the
first acceleration in five months, the central bank said
yesterday. It kept the  benchmark interest rate  at 4 percent and
cut its  inflation  forecast for this year to 4 percent from 4.7
percent and lowered it to 3 percent from 3.6 percent for 2011.  
 Investors should “overweight” property and banks, Pomento
said.  Ayala Land Inc. , the largest builder, and  Megaworld Corp., 
the fourth-biggest developer, are among his most recommended
stocks this year. Other picks are  Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. , the
biggest bank by asset,  Bank of the Philippine Islands , the No. 3
by assets, and Alliance Global Group Inc., owner of Megaworld
and the largest Philippine casino.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        