-- Polish Plane-Crash Probe Becomes `Brazilian Soap Opera' as Elections Near
-- Dorota Bartyzel
-- 2010-07-16T13:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/polish-plane-crash-probe-becomes-brazilian-soap-opera-as-elections-near.html

          
          
             The plane crash that killed Polish
President  Lech Kaczynski  and 95 others spurred weeks of public
mourning in April and triggered calls for national unity. Now
it’s a political dogfight.  
 Jaroslaw Kaczynski , Lech’s twin and leader of the largest
opposition party, on July 14 blamed the disaster on the
government’s “criminal policy” of not buying new aircraft. The
next day, a leaked transcript of cockpit recordings suggested
Lech Kaczynski ordered the pilot to land in bad weather.  
 The exchange came 10 days after Kaczynski won a better-
than-expected 47 percent of the vote in a presidential runoff,
boosting his Law & Justice Party before local and parliamentary
elections over the next year. Kaczynski’s strength may hamper
efforts to control the budget deficit, analysts said last week.  
 “My country and the government behave worse than in a
Brazilian soap opera,” Marek Siwiec, a European parliament
member from the Left Democratic Alliance, said today on his
blog. “Responsibility for the catastrophe has become a top
theme of the political fight. When it will end? Shame.”  
 The April 10 air disaster was Poland’s worst national
tragedy since World War II. Central bank Governor  Slawomir Skrzypek  and the country’s four top military commanders, as well
as Kaczynski were killed when a Soviet-era Tupolev-154 crashed
in Smolensk, Russia, while trying to land in heavy fog. The
dignitaries were on their way to honor 22,000 Polish prisoners
killed by Soviet secret police in 1940.  
 Public Mourning  
 Crowds lined the streets of Warsaw as Kaczynski’s funeral
cortege passed through the city the day after the crash, and a
week later thousands filled the capital’s Pilsudski Square where
a memorial service was held.  
 The crash returned to the headlines this week, with Gazeta
Wyborcza saying, “Smolensk Is Back,” and Rzeczpospolita
asking, “Who Benefits From the War Over Smolensk?”  
 Zbigniew Girzynski, a lawmaker from Kaczynski’s Law &
Justice Party, said the leaked transcript showed that the
government’s investigation of the crash is being manipulated for
political purposes.  
 “It was a controlled leak from offices supervised
by the ruling party, giving a short and out of context
fragment that could only fuel speculation and help
manipulate public opinion,” Girzynski said in an interview.  
 Pawel Gras , a spokesman for Prime Minister  Donald Tusk ’s
government, rejected suggestions that the crash investigation
was tainted by politics.  
 “Any accusations that the government didn’t handle the
investigation properly are just absurd,” Gras said in an
interview with TVN24 television.  
 Martyred Brother  
 After his surprise showing in the July 4 runoff, the 61-
year-old Kaczynski told supporters they “must stay united in a
movement built on my martyred brother for future victory.”  
 In an interview published July 14 by the newspaper Gazeta
Polska, Kaczynski said the government was acting “strangely”
in its investigation of the crash and that any politicians found
responsible for the disaster should leave office.  
 Kaczynski said he told Foreign Minister  Radoslaw Sikorski 
that the crash was the government’s fault when the minister
informed him about the crash.  
 “That’s because of your criminal policy,” Gazeta Polska
quoted him as telling Sikorski. “You didn’t buy new planes.”  
 Poland has considered buying new planes to carry top
officials because of maintenance concerns about its Tupolevs,
which were bought before the collapse of communism. Sikorski
told Gazeta Polska that a tender for replacements was canceled
when Jaroslaw Kaczynski was prime minister from 2005-2007.  
 ‘He’ll Kill Me’  
 A day after Kaczynski’s comments were published, TVN24
television reported on previously unreleased transcripts from
the cockpit voice recorder.  
 “If I don’t land, he’ll kill me,” the pilot said seconds
before the crash, TVN24 reported.  
 The sentence, which hasn’t been officially confirmed, may
add to speculation Lech Kaczynski pressured the pilot to land.  
 The theory arose after Polish media outlets reported that
Kaczynski had criticized the pilot of another plane for refusing
to land in the Georgian capital, Tbilisi, during the August 2008
conflict with Russia.  
 Kaczynski told journalists on the Georgia flight that
someone who decides to be an officer “cannot be timid,” Gazeta
Wyborcza reported. Arkadiusz Protasiuk, the senior pilot in
Smolensk, was the co-pilot on the Tbilisi flight, Gazeta
reported July 15.  
 ‘Basis to Decide’  
 A 40-page transcript released by the government on June 1
showed the Smolensk pilots were warned about “horrible”
weather and poor visibility 30 minutes before they tried to
land. The document was incomplete because Russian experts
weren’t able to decipher all of the recordings. Since then, the
Institute of Forensic Research in Krakow and police laboratories
have been continuing to fill in gaps.  
 Justice Minister  Krzysztof Kwiatkowski  wasn’t able to say
whether the transcript reported by TVN24 was accurate, according
to an interview with the  Polsat News  TV channel.  
 “While I still cannot confirm the newest reading of the
transcript, I’d see such a sentence as giving a strong basis to
decide whether there was a pressure or not,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A procession transports the coffins of Polish President Lech Kaczynski and his wife Marta on the day of their funeral in Krakow on April 18, 2010. Photographer: Joe Klamar/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Hundreds of thousands of Polish people gather as they bring candles and flowers in front of the presidential palace in Warsaw on April 11, 2010. Photographer: Joe Klamar/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Soldiers salute the coffin of Polish President Lech Kaczynski upon its arrival at Warsaw's airport on April 11, 2010. Photographer: Joe Klamar/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
