-- Posco Invests in Australian Iron Ore Mine, Seeks Stake in Brazilian Mill
-- Sungwoo Park
-- 2010-07-16T08:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/posco-plans-to-invest-162-million-in-western-australia-iron-ore-project.html

          
          
             Posco , the world’s third-biggest
steelmaker, will invest in an iron ore project in Western
Australia and seek a stake in a Brazilian mill to expand markets
and raw material supplies outside of South Korea.  
 Posco will spend 194.7 billion ($162 million) to buy a 24.5
percent stake in the Australian Premium Iron project, the Pohang,
South Korea-based company said today in a statement. It wants to
buy about 20 percent of a steel venture planned by  Vale SA  and
 Dongkuk Steel Mill Co. , it also said.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Chung Joon Yang  is building plants
and investing in mines in countries including Indonesia, setting
aside a record $8.7 billion for capital spending this year.
Posco, which gets 70 percent of sales from the domestic market,
will gain a foothold in the South American nation and be able to
supply the U.S. from the Brazilian venture, it said.  
 “The iron ore mine investment is very positive,” Um Jin
Seok, an analyst with Kyobo Securities Co., said in Seoul. “The
Brazil venture is not a bad deal because Brazil is a
fast-growing market. It’d be better to join an existing project
instead of starting from the beginning.”  
 Posco shares  rose 0.9 percent to close at 491,500 won in
Seoul trading today, outperforming a 0.7 percent loss in the
local benchmark  Kospi index.   
 The investment in the Australian project, being developed
by American Metals and Coal International Inc. and  Aquila
Resources Ltd. , will boost Posco’s self-sufficiency ratio of the
material to 34 percent from 18 percent, the company said. Posco
will receive 9.8 million metric tons of iron ore a year from the
mine, about a fifth of its annual needs, it said.  
 Iron Ore  
 Posco will buy its stake from American Metals and Coal,
whose holding will drop to 25.5 percent. Aquila Resources will
retain its 50 percent stake.  
 The Korean steelmaker will discuss investment terms in the
proposed Brazilian mill with Vale, the world’s biggest iron-ore
producer, and rival Dongkuk before making a final decision, the
company said.  
 “Since we hope Posco will join the project, we think it’s
positive,”  Kim Sun Hong , a spokesman for Seoul-based Dongkuk,
said by phone today. “We expect some synergy in that Posco has
the world’s best expertise in terms of furnace construction and
operations and we can also diversify investment funding for the
project.”  
 The mill in Ceara is expected to produce 3 million tons of
slabs a year after completion by 2014, Posco said.  
 Posco earlier this year agreed to buy as much as 15 percent
of the Roy Hill iron ore project in Australia and a 7.8 percent
stake in a coal mine in Mozambique. Posco’s Australian unit
today increased its shareholding in  Murchison Metals Ltd.  to
13.91 percent, making it the iron ore miner’s largest
shareholder.  
 Separately, Posco said today in a regulatory filing it will
pay a mid-year dividend of 2,500 won.  
 Posco is ranked as the world’s third-biggest steelmaker by
the  World Steel Association , with ArcelorMittal and Baosteel
Group Corp. rated above it. According to the American Institute
for International Steel, the South Korean mill comes fourth,
after ArcelorMittal, Hebei Iron & Steel Group and Baosteel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sungwoo Park  in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        