-- Prices Excluding Food, Energy in U.S. Rise More Than Forecast
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-16T13:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/prices-excluding-food-energy-in-u-s-rise-more-than-forecast.html

          
          
             The  cost  of living in the U.S.,
excluding food and energy prices, climbed in June more than
forecast, easing concern that a slowdown in growth will spur
deflation.  
 The so-called  core  rate of the consumer-price index
increased 0.2 percent, the most since October and exceeding the
0.1 percent gain projected by the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department
showed today in Washington. Prices overall fell 0.1 percent, a
third straight decrease and matching the median forecast.  
 The report showed rents, the biggest component in CPI,
stabilized, while the cost of clothing and used cars climbed,
diminishing the risk of deflation, or a protracted drop in
prices. The lack of inflation gives Federal Reserve policy
makers scope to leave the benchmark interest rate near zero in
coming months to help invigorate the economy.  
 “Inflation will be tame because there is so much slack in
the economy, but this number should lessen deflation fears
somewhat,” said James O’Sullivan, chief economist at MF Global
Ltd. In New York.  
 Treasury securities fell after the report, erasing earlier
gains, and stock-index futures were little changed. The yield on
the benchmark 10-year note was 2.99 percent at 9:02 a.m. in New
York compared with 3 percent late yesterday.  
 Survey Median  
 Consumer prices were forecast to decline 0.1 percent,
according to the median forecast of 76 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Estimates ranged from a drop of 0.4 percent to a gain of
0.1 percent.  
 In the 12 months ended in June, prices rose 1.1 percent
following a 2 percent year-over-year gain the prior month.
Economists had forecast a 1.2 percent rise in the 12 months to
June, according to the survey median.  
 The core rate rose 0.9 percent from June 2009, matching the
smallest year-over-year gain since 1966.  
 Compared with a month earlier, energy costs decreased 2.9
percent, and food costs were unchanged.  
 The European debt crisis has weighed on the value of the
euro may keep damping U.S. inflation in coming months. At the
same time, American exports to Europe may slow as a stronger
dollar holds down the cost of imported goods.  
 Rents Stabilize  
 Owners-equivalent rent, one of the categories designed to
track rental prices, rose 0.1 percent, the first increase since
August 2009.  
 “The dramatic slowing in rents seems to have run its
course, coinciding with the improvement in the labor market,”
said MF Global’s O’Sullivan.  
 Apartment vacancies in the U.S. dropped in the second
quarter from the previous three months, the first quarterly
improvement in two years, according to Reis Inc., a real estate
research firm.  
 The vacancy rate for apartment properties was 7.8 percent,
down from a 30-year high of 8 percent in the first quarter and
up from 7.7 percent a year earlier, according to a July 8 report
from Reis. First-quarter vacancies were the highest since 1980,
when the company began tracking the data.  
 Some companies are reducing prices to spur sales.
Amazon.com Inc., the world’s largest online retailer, last month
cut the cost for its Kindle electronic reader 27 percent to
$189, accelerating a price war with Barnes & Noble Inc., the
bookstore chain that earlier announced a discount on its own e-
book device, the Nook.  
 Controling Prices  
 Retailers are also taking steps to lure in shoppers.
Staples Inc., the largest U.S. office-supply retailer, has
increased inventory and is offering more discounts while
spending more on advertising, said Demos Parneros, president of
U.S. retail at the Framingham, Massachusetts-based company.  
 “We are being very aggressive with good offers,” Parneros
said. “It worked last year and customers responded. We need to
generate more traffic into the stores.”  
 The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price gauges from
Labor, because it includes goods and services. Almost 60 percent
of the CPI covers prices consumers pay for services ranging from
medical visits to airline fares and movie tickets.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- The cost of living in the U.S., excluding food and energy prices, climbed 0.2 percent in June more than forecast, easing concern that a slowdown in growth will spur deflation. Prices overall fell 0.1 percent, a third straight decrease and matching the median forecast. Bloomberg's Michael McKee reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
