-- Treasury Yield Curve May Have Peaked, Pimco's Crescenzi Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-16T17:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/treasury-yield-curve-may-have-peaked-pimco-s-crescenzi-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             The extra yield Treasury investors
get for 10-year notes over 2-year debt probably won’t break the
record reached in February, according to  Anthony Crescenzi  of
Pacific Investment Management Co.  
 “We may have seen the peak in the yield curve,” said
Crescenzi, whose company runs the world’s largest bond fund, in
a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 The difference in yields has fallen from the record on
concern the U.S. economic recovery is stalling, wrote Crescenzi,
a strategist and portfolio manager at Newport Beach, California-
based Pimco, in a July 1 report.  
 The spread dropped 0.04 percentage point today to 2.35
percentage points, the lowest level since July 7. It widened to
the record 2.94 percentage points on Feb. 18 as reports showed
evidence of a U.S. recovery from the worst economic slump since
the Great Depression.  
 The  yield  on the two-year Treasury note dropped today to a
record low of 0.5765 percent as economic reports indicated a
heightened risk of a slowdown in U.S. growth.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of U.S. consumer sentiment decreased in July to 66.5, the
lowest since August and less than the most pessimistic forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. A report from the
Labor Department showed inflation cooled last month.  
 While the yield curve won’t surpass this year’s high, it
will remain relatively steep as long as Federal Reserve policy
remains accommodative to growth, according to Crescenzi.  
 Cleveland Fed’s View  
 The spread signals almost no chance of the economy slipping
into another recession, according to a July 1 report from the
Cleveland Fed. The gap between yields on 2-year and 10-year
Treasuries is more than double the 20-year average and about the
same as in 2003, just before gross domestic product rose 3.6
percent, the report said.  
 Growth won’t slow to less than 1 percent, and there’s about
a 12 percent chance of a recession in the next year,  Joseph G. Haubrich , head of the banking and financial institutions group
at the Cleveland Fed, and Kent Cherny, a researcher, wrote in
the report.  
 Because inflation historically lags behind the business
cycle by two years and the recovery began about a year ago,
Crescenzi said, inflation will be slow into 2011.  
 “The risk of disinflation turning to deflation has
increased because we still haven’t closed the so-called output
gap,” said Crescenzi, referring to the difference between how
fast the economy is growing and how fast it can grow.  
 Pimco on Inflation  
 Pimco expects annual core inflation, which is at a 44-year
low, will slow to 0.5 percent from 0.9 percent, Crescenzi said.
The gauge of consumer prices excluding food and energy may sink
even lower if enough jobs aren’t created, he said.  
 The company has boosted holdings of government-related debt
to the highest level in eight months as the U.S. recovery showed
signs of waning. The $234 billion Total Return Fund’s investment
in the debt increased to 63 percent of assets in June, from 51
percent in the previous month, according to the company’s
website. The firm doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in
portfolio holdings.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        