-- Treasuries Rise as Asian Stocks Decline Before U.S. Consumer Prices Report
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-16T11:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/treasuries-head-for-weekly-gain-before-data-to-show-consumer-prices-fell.html

          
          
             Treasuries rose and were headed for
a weekly gain before reports that are forecast to show a U.S.
inflation gauge matched the lowest in four decades and consumer
confidence deteriorated.  
 The 10-year note advanced for a third day and two-year
 yields  were near a record low. Consumer prices likely dropped in
June for a third straight month, showing inflation is contained
as the recovery cools, economists said. Former Bank of England
policy maker  David Blanchflower  said risks of a deflation
“nightmare” mean officials including Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  should keep measures in place to spur growth.  
 “Low inflationary pressures may confirm some concerns of a
double-dip in the U.S. economy, and that’s supportive for
Treasuries,” said  Peter Chatwell , an interest-rate strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London.
“Treasuries benefit in bouts of risk aversion as investors seek
the safest assets.”  
 The benchmark 10-year  yield  dropped less than 1 basis point
to 2.99 percent at 7:26 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 3.5 percent security due May 2020 rose 1/32, or
$31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 104 9/32. Yields declined
six basis points this week.  
 The two-year note yield was at 0.60 percent, versus the
record low of 0.5767 percent reached yesterday.  
 Consumer Prices  
 The U.S. consumer-price index fell 0.1 percent in June, a
third monthly decline, according to the median forecast of 75
economists in a Bloomberg survey before the Labor Department
report today. Excluding food and energy, prices increased 0.9
percent from a year earlier, matching the smallest annual gain
since 1966, a separate survey showed.  
 A report from the University of Michigan will show its
preliminary consumer sentiment  index  for July fell to 74 from 76
in June, according to the median forecast of 61 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 “There is very little inflation pressure at present
against a backdrop of no more than a moderate economic
recovery,” analysts at WestLB AG, including  John Davies  in
London, wrote today. “There is likely to be a downturn in the
University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment.”  
 International demand for long-term U.S. notes, bonds and
stocks probably fell in May, according to the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Treasury
Department reports the figure today.  
 TIPS Spread  
 Net purchases declined to $40 billion from $83 billion in
April, the survey shows.  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, narrowed to 1.80 percentage points from
this year’s high of 2.49 percentage points in January.  
 Deflation is “Bernanke’s and my nightmare,” Blanchflower
said in an interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio. Most of
the global economic recovery “is being driven by stimulus,” he
said. “Caution to you if you start to take it off.”  
 Fed policy makers last month cut their outlook for
inflation this year to a range of 1 percent to 1.1 percent, from
1.2 percent to 1.5 percent in April. A few policy makers
expressed concern last month about some risk of deflation.  
 ‘No Hurry’  
 “The perception is that there is an economic slowdown,”
said  Andy Richman , who oversees $10 billion as a strategist in
Palm Beach, Florida for SunTrust Bank’s private wealth-
management division. “The Fed is in no hurry to raise rates.”  
 The central bank has kept its  target  for overnight lending
in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Futures
on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a 13 percent chance of the
Fed raising its target lending rate for overnight bank loans by
at least a quarter-percentage point by December, compared with a
27 percent likelihood a month ago.  
 The bulls are in a minority. A Bloomberg survey of banks
and securities companies shows the 10-year yield will rise to
3.35 percent by year-end.  
 Recent economic reports showing an uneven recovery are
consistent with “moderate” growth that may cause inflation to
“drift upward,” Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said yesterday in Norfolk, Virginia.  
 Long-term Treasuries are getting too expensive, said  Colin Embree , a trader in Singapore at Bank of Nova Scotia Asia Ltd.,
part of Canada’s third-largest lender.  
 Seeking Safety  
 Embree said he’s considering setting bets against the
securities if yields fall another 15 basis points. Ten-year
yields dropped to 2.88 percent on July 1, a level not seen since
April 2009.  
 Investors are seeking safety in shorter maturities because
of concern global growth is slowing, keeping the difference
between two- and 10-year yields at a steep level, he said. The
 spread  was 2.38 percentage points, more than double the average
over the past 20 years.  
 “People are still piling into short-term Treasuries
because of the global uncertainty,” Embree said. “This is
probably not an area where you want to own long-term
Treasuries.”  
 Thirty-year bonds, among the most sensitive to costs in the
economy because of their long maturity, have outperformed
shorter-term notes this year. Long bonds returned 14 percent,
versus 6 percent for the broad market, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  
 30-Year Yields Attractive  
 Investors should buy 30-year bonds because their yields are
attractive relative to 10-year notes, Barclays Capital analysts
including  Leef Dierks  in Frankfurt wrote in a report today.  
 Thirty-year bonds  yielded  almost 1 percentage point more
than 2020 notes, the most in 2010.  
 A $13 billion 30-year auction on July 14 drew a yield of
4.08 percent, less than the average forecast of 4.108 percent in
a Bloomberg survey of eight of the Fed’s 18 primary dealers.  
 The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount offered, was 2.89, the most since
March. Sales of three- and 10-year securities this week drew
yields that were higher than forecast. The three auctions
totaled $69 billion.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        