-- Treasuries Climb as Data Show Consumer Confidence Dropped, Inflation Low
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-16T20:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/treasuries-head-for-weekly-advance-as-report-shows-increase-in-core-prices.html

          
          
             Treasuries  rose for a third day as
reports showed consumer sentiment in July slumped to the lowest
level in a year and inflation was restrained, stoking demand for
the safety of government debt.  
 U.S.  two-year  note yields fell to a record low, dropping
for the seventh straight week, amid speculation the Federal
Reserve will keep borrowing costs near zero into next year as
unemployment persists and consumers remain reluctant to spend.
Data for June showed the year-over-year gain in core consumer
prices matched the smallest since 1966.  
 “The low inflation and weakness in the consumer-confidence
number are supporting the Treasury market today as the data
continues to be choppy,” said  Sean Simko , who oversees $8
billion at SEI Investments Co. in Oaks, Pennsylvania. “The
unemployment rate is still abnormally high and the growth
picture is still uncertain, so consumers are feeling the
pressure.”  
 The benchmark 10-year  yield  fell 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.93 percent at 4:38 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. It slid 13 basis points for
the week. The two-year  note  yield declined 2 basis points to
0.59 percent and touched its lowest level ever, 0.5765 percent.
For the week, it decreased 4 basis points.  
 Stocks tumbled, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index
plunging 2.9 percent.  
 Pimco Holdings  
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., boosted holdings of
government-related debt to the highest level in eight months.  
 The $234 billion Total Return Fund’s investment in the debt
was increased to 63 percent of assets in June, from 51 percent
in May, according to the website of Newport Beach, California-
based Pimco. The firm’s U.S. government-related debt category
can include conventional and inflation-linked Treasuries, agency
debt, interest-rate derivatives, Treasury futures and options
and bank debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
according to the website.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer confidence fell to 66.5 this month, the lowest
since August, from 76 in June. The forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey was for the reading to decline to 74.  
 The consumer price index slipped 0.1 percent in June, Labor
Department data showed, a third straight monthly decrease. The
so-called core rate, which excludes food and energy prices,
increased 0.2 percent from May, versus a 0.1 percent gain
projected by economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  
 The year-over-year core rate rose 0.9 percent.  
 ‘Underlying Theme’  
 “Inflation is very low and consistent with the idea that
the Fed is continuing to shift their broader concerns to a
potential disinflationary environment,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut. “It’s all part and parcel of the same underlying
theme of a low inflation story, which suggests the Fed leaves
the zero interest-rate policy in place for longer.”  
 Central bank policy makers last month cut their outlook for
inflation this year to a range of 1 percent to 1.1 percent, from
1.2 percent to 1.5 percent in April. A few officials expressed
concern at last month’s policy meeting about “some risk of
deflation,” according to minutes released July 14.  
 The Fed has kept its benchmark interest  rate  in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. Futures on the CME
Group Inc. exchange showed a 12 percent chance it will raise the
 target rate  for overnight bank loans by at least a quarter-
percentage point by December, compared with a 27 percent
likelihood a month ago.  
 Global Demand  
 Global demand for long-term U.S. financial  assets  slowed in
May from a month earlier as investors abroad sold stocks and
accumulated Treasuries at the weakest pace in a year.  
 Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$35.4 billion for the month, compared with net purchases of
$81.5 billion in April, the Treasury Department reported today.
Total net foreign purchases of  Treasury notes  and bonds were $15
billion in May, the weakest level since May 2009 and down from
$76.4 billion in April.  
 Long-term Treasuries are getting too expensive, said  Colin Embree , a trader in Singapore at Bank of Nova Scotia Asia Ltd.,
part of Canada’s third-largest lender.  
 Embree said he’s considering setting bets against the
securities if yields fall another 15 basis points. Ten-year
yields dropped to 2.88 percent on July 1, a  level  not seen since
April 2009.  
 Investors are seeking safety in shorter maturities because
of concern global growth is slowing, keeping the difference
between 2- and 10-year yields at a steep level, he said. The
spread was 2.34 percentage points, more than double the  average 
over the past 20 years.  
 “We’ve moved a long way in a short period of time,” said
 Tom Roth , senior Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc. “To maintain these low levels, we need a
diet of bad news. Some days we get it.”  
 The U.S. lost jobs in June for the first time this year,
government data showed July 2. The jobless rate is 9.5 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        