-- Roche Avastin Studies Didn't Show Same Benefit as Earlier Trial, FDA Says
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-07-16T16:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/roche-s-avastin-not-as-good-in-new-studies-as-early-data-showed-fda-says.html

          
          
             Roche Holding AG’s  top-seller
Avastin didn’t slow breast tumors in new studies as much as in
earlier tests used to win approval, according to U.S. regulators
weighing whether to permit sales to continue for this purpose.  
 Avastin paired with chemotherapy didn’t help patients
survive longer than use of the other drugs alone, and those
receiving the Roche medicine had more serious side effects,
according to a  Food and Drug Administration  staff review today.
FDA advisers will meet July 20 to evaluate Avastin and consider
whether use in breast cancer should be continued, expanded, or
halted. The shares fell the most in more than a year.  
 Roche, Europe’s largest drugmaker, won FDA approval of
Avastin for breast cancer in 2008 under an accelerated review
that required the company to complete trials proving the
treatment, with $5.97 billion in sales last year, extends
survival or enhances quality of life. Withdrawal of approval may
trim as much as $1 billion from annual sales by 2015, said  Jack Scannell , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London.  
 “My gut feeling would be that it doesn’t look good for
Avastin,” said  Nick Turner , an analyst at Mirabaud Securities
in London, in a telephone interview today. “The real worry here
may be that the adverse events associated with Avastin are
overriding any anti-cancer effect.”  
 Roche, based in Basel, Switzerland, fell 6.3 Swiss francs,
or 4.2 percent, to 144.5 francs at the 5:30 p.m. close in
Zurich, the most since April 22, 2009. The stock has lost 18
percent this year.  
 Blood-Vessel Growth  
 Avastin is the first medicine to fight cancer by blocking
the growth of blood vessels that feed tumors, a process called
angiogenesis. It targets a chemical signal known as vascular
endothelial growth factor, or VEGF. Avastin was developed by
Roche’s San Francisco-based Genentech unit, fully acquired by
the European drugmaker last year for $46.8 billion.  
 Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in females and
strikes about 1 million women a year globally, according to the
Geneva-based World Health Organization. Avastin is approved for
about three quarters of women whose breast cancer has been
recently diagnosed as having spread to other organs. It doesn’t
include women who have a mutation to the HER2 protein, a known
risk factor. Patients with HER2 mutations are eligible for
another Roche drug, Herceptin.  
 The FDA clearance of Avastin for breast cancer overruled an
advisory panel that concluded the benefit of slowing the spread
of tumors wasn’t worth the risk of side effects including high
blood pressure and death. The drug, also approved for brain,
lung and colon tumors, costs about $50,000 a year.  
 Early Trial  
 Approval was based on a clinical trial, called E2100, which
showed Avastin slowed the spread of breast cancer by an
additional 5.5 months when paired with paclitaxel chemotherapy,
compared with the other drug alone, the FDA said today.  
 One trial completed since then, called Avado, showed that a
high dose of Avastin paired with docetaxel chemotherapy extended
the time patients lived without their disease worsening by 0.9
months, compared with treatment with chemotherapy alone, the FDA
report said. A lower dose of Avastin gave patients 0.8 months.  
 A second trial finished after approval, called Ribbon-1,
found that Avastin combined with taxane or anthracycline-based
chemotherapies stalled tumor growth by 1.2 months, compared to
treatment with chemotherapy alone, the report said. Patients who
got Avastin combined with Xeloda lived 2.9 months longer without
their disease progressing, compared to chemotherapy alone.  
 ‘Consistent’ Benefit  
 “What we have learned through these trials is that there
is a consistent magnitude of benefit,” said Philippe Bishop,
Roche’s vice president of clinical development for Avastin, in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There was no significant
increase in overall survival, but what is important in our
understanding is that there was also no added detriment.”  
 Drugs that win conditional clearance through the FDA’s
accelerated-approval program can later be pulled from the market
if subsequent data fails to show that a treatment increases
long-term survival or slows progression of the disease while
improving quality of life.  
 Avastin was effective in keeping the disease at bay, though
studies have been unable to show a quality-of-life improvement,
Citigroup analyst  Mark Dainty  said in a July 8 research note.  
 “The key question is whether FDA will accept this
progression-free survival benefit as a clinical benefit in
absence of an improvement in measured quality of life and
without a proven extension of survival,” Dainty said.  
 Mylotarg Withdrawn  
 Pfizer Inc.’s leukemia treatment Mylotarg last month became
the first drug with accelerated approval to come off the market
after studies linked it to deaths from liver and lung
complications and failed to prove it works. New York-based
Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, voluntarily halted sales
of the drug, which won accelerated FDA approval 10 years ago
based on preliminary data showing improved remission rates.  
 “We are cautiously optimistic on the outcome for Roche,”
Scannell, the Bernstein analyst, said in his research report
yesterday. “The drug works less well than people would have
hoped several years ago and it is very expensive. Nonetheless,
the overwhelming majority of breast cancer specialists think it
has a use in certain patients.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Molly Peterson  in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net :
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Roche Holding AG chief executive officer Severin Schwan. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
