-- S&P Overhauls Analyst Team for Citigroup, Goldman Two Years After Crisis
-- Bradley Keoun
-- 2010-07-16T19:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/s-p-overhauls-analyst-team-for-citigroup-goldman-two-years-after-crisis.html

          
          
             Standard & Poor’s changed its team
of analysts covering Wall Street firms, almost two years after
the credit crisis led to government bailouts and downgrades for
companies including Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 Craig Parmelee , previously a managing director covering the
gaming industry and rival Moody’s Corp., took over last month as
head of North American  financial institutions  analysis,
according to a memo from  Jay Dhru , the group’s global head. He
replaced  Rodrigo Quintanilla , who became head researcher within
Parmelee’s group, according to the memo, confirmed by S&P
spokesman Jeff Sexton.  
 Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley all had S&P
ratings of A+ or better in mid-2008, months before they took a
combined $65 billion in bailout funds in a government effort to
bolster confidence in the financial system. In March, S&P said
it would review bank ratings to gauge whether they properly
account for the risks of funding runs and the potential for
future government bailouts.  
 “Standard & Poor’s is consistently looking at how we can
improve the quality of our credit ratings,” the New York-based
 McGraw-Hill Cos.  unit said in an e-mailed statement yesterday,
responding to a query about the changes. “This includes
providing opportunities for our staff to pursue new
opportunities within our organization that will help broaden
their skill set and increase the perspective and approach they
bring to their day-to-day roles.”  
 Sprinzen’s Shift  
 Among those who shifted was  Scott Sprinzen , who published
an A rating on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. on Sept. 12, 2008,
three days before the U.S. securities firm filed the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history.  
 Sprinzen, the lead analyst for Citigroup, Goldman Sachs,
JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley, decided to move to the S&P division
that handles ratings on  non-financial industries , Dhru wrote in
his note. Those include energy, aerospace, media, machinery,
retailing, health care, transportation and utilities.  
 Sprinzen has been “skillfully rating financial
institutions through a very challenging time,” Dhru wrote in
the memo. “He will continue to coordinate with the team during
the transition phase.”  
 In the statement, S&P said ratings decisions are made by
committee and do not represent “the actions of an individual
credit analyst.”  
 Vandana Sharma , previously lead analyst on mortgage-finance
company  Freddie Mac , took over in late June as lead  analyst  for
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.  Stuart Plesser , who was the
backup analyst on State Street Corp. and previously worked as an
equity analyst at S&P covering regional banks and mortgage
lenders, is now lead analyst for JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Citigroup.  
 Azarchs Retires  
 Tanya Azarchs , who was head researcher in the North
American financial-institutions group and served as lead analyst
for  Wells Fargo & Co.  and U.S. Bancorp, retired last month after
28 years with S&P, according to Dhru’s memo.  
 “Tanya has made significant contributions to the FI Group
and we will miss her wisdom, energy and deep understanding of
the financial markets,” Dhru wrote. Sharma took over coverage
of Wells Fargo, and Plesser is handling U.S. Bancorp, Sexton
said.  
 John Bartko  continues to cover Bank of America Corp., the
biggest U.S. bank.  
 Parmelee joined S&P as an analyst in 1998, according to a
biography provided by Sexton. Previously he worked in the
banking industry for almost 10 years, and was a vice president
at State Street lending to medium-size companies, according to
the bio.  
 The personnel moves “should not result in a change to a
credit rating,” according to the statement from S&P. Sharma and
Plesser issued statements this week saying that second-quarter
earnings results from Citigroup, JPMorgan and Bank of America
wouldn’t result in an immediate change in ratings.  
 The review announced in March of bank-rating criteria “is
ongoing and a definitive timetable has not been set,” S&P said.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Bradley Keoun  in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        