-- Scaled-Back Carbon Emission Plan's Prospects Slim, Senator Harkin Says
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-07-16T21:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/scaled-back-carbon-emission-plan-s-prospects-slim-senator-harkin-says.html

          
          
             Scaling back legislation to cap
carbon dioxide from power plants rather than most of the U.S.
economy might not win enough votes for a new greenhouse gas law
to pass the Senate this year, two senators said.  
 “I don’t think that’s going to fly,” Senator  Tom Harkin ,
an Iowa Democrat, said yesterday of the plan for cutting power-
plant carbon dioxide that may be included in an energy bill to
be debated later this month.  
 Cap-and-trade legislation, in which power plants, factories
and refineries would buy and sell a declining number of carbon
dioxide allowances, narrowly passed the U.S. House last year and
stalled in the Senate. The House cap-and-trade plan would
regulate sources responsible for roughly 85 percent of U.S.
greenhouse gases.  
 Senators  John Kerry  and  Joseph Lieberman  released a
revamped cap-and-trade plan in May, which they now have scaled
back to the electricity sector, in the hopes of winning the
support of lawmakers who worry about the impact of carbon caps
on energy prices, the cost of manufacturing and job growth.
Power plants produce about one-third of U.S. greenhouse gases.  
 Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has
said he wants to include a carbon-cutting program for power
plants in energy legislation to be debated the week of July 26.
The legislation, which is still under negotiation, should also
overhaul offshore drilling regulation, boost alternatives to
fossil fuels and curb energy consumption, he said.  
 Democrat Appointed  
 It usually requires 60 out of 100 votes to pass major
legislation through the Senate. Democrats had a 59-41 margin
until Senator  Robert Byrd  of West Virginia died last month.  
 They are expected to regain their 59th seat after West
Virginia Governor  Joe Manchin , a Democrat, said today he’ll
appoint  Carte Goodwin , a Charleston lawyer, to succeed Byrd.  
 Goodwin told reporters today that House and Senate cap-and-
trade proposals “simply are not right for West Virginia” and
he won’t vote for legislation that “threatens the long-term
economic security of this state.” West Virginia is the second-
highest coal-producing state in the U.S., according to the
Energy Information Administration. Wyoming is first.  
 West Virginia’s other Democratic senator,  Jay Rockefeller ,
also opposes cap-and-trade legislation and said July 14 that it
“cannot get 60 votes.”  
 Pryor’s Reservations  
 Senator  Mark Pryor , an Arkansas Democrat, said in an
interview yesterday he also doubts there are enough votes to
pass an electricity sector cap-and-trade bill right now.  
 Pryor said he’ll wait to see a final proposal from Kerry, a
Massachusetts Democrat, and Lieberman, a Connecticut
independent, before deciding whether to support the plan.  
 Kerry and Lieberman have produced a discussion draft of the
electricity sector cap-and-trade plan that leaves room for
further talks with industry groups, environmentalists and other
senators. Pryor said he has reservations about their approach.  
 “I’ve never been a huge fan of cap-and-trade,” Pryor
said.  
 Harkin said the Senate should focus on legislation approved
last year by the Energy and Natural Resources Committee that
requires power companies to buy more from renewable sources such
as wind farms. He said the bill’s renewable electricity
standard, which calls for 15 percent of power generation to come
from low-pollution sources by 2021, should be increased.  
 Lieberman Confident  
 Lieberman told reporters yesterday that he and Kerry are
still confident the “utilities only” cap-and-trade bill can
win enough support to pass. Reid has said he wants an energy
bill to pass the Senate before lawmakers leave Washington in
early August for a month to campaign in their home states ahead
of elections in November.  
 Lieberman said he would be open to starting the Senate’s
debate on the energy bill before the August recess and
completing it when the senators return in September if more time
was needed to build support for curbing the greenhouse gases
that scientists have linked to climate change.  
 Some Senate Democrats from Midwestern U.S. states are
holding back their support for the power-plant cap-and-trade
bill until it shields factories from higher electricity prices.  
 Under previous House and Senate cap-and-trade proposals,
the U.S. manufacturing sector was regulated, so factories got
free carbon dioxide allowances to cushion the cost of cutting
their own emissions and higher electricity prices from power
plants that were required to make pollution cuts.  
 Aid for Manufacturers  
 While pollution from factories won’t be regulated in the
scaled-back cap-and-trade bill, U.S. manufacturers still need
some form of assistance to cope with higher electricity prices,
Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said yesterday.  
 Supporters of the economy-wide carbon dioxide limits
“can’t just make it smaller” and think it will win more votes,
Levin said. “If the small package has impacts on the parts that
are left out, then you’ve got to worry about the parts that are
left out.”  
 Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, told reporters
yesterday that carbon tariffs on goods from countries without
greenhouse gas limits, which were included in past cap-and-trade
proposals, also must be added to the new plan.  
 “The utilities-only doesn’t work for manufacturing at this
point,” Brown said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        