-- Shadow Banking Debt Still Tops Regular Banks', Fed Report Says
-- Christine Richard
-- 2010-07-16T13:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/shadow-banking-debt-levels-still-exceeds-regular-banks-fed-report-says.html

          
          
             Liabilities of shadow banks, or
institutions without access to central bank loans or permanent
federal guarantees, still exceed the traditional banking
system’s three years after the financial crisis began, according
to a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  
 The shadow banking system had about $16 trillion of
obligations in the first quarter, compared with $13 trillion for
banks, the  report  said. The gap has narrowed from 2008, when
obligations were $20 trillion and $11 trillion, respectively.  
 The U.S. had to lend, spend or guarantee $11.6 trillion to
bolster financial markets and fight the longest recession in 70
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of last
September. That included agreeing to backstop obligations such
as asset-backed commercial paper, collateralized debt
obligations and money market funds that helped finance home
mortgages, credit card borrowing and auto loans.  
 “The shadow banking system was temporarily brought into
the ‘daylight’ of public liquidity and liability insurance --
like traditional banks -- but was then pushed back into the
shadows,” Fed researchers including  Zoltan Pozsar  and  Tobias Adrian  wrote in the report issued earlier this month.  
 Given the size of this parallel banking system and its
vulnerability to further panics, “it is imperative for policy
makers to assess whether shadow banks should have access to
official backstops permanently, or be regulated out of
existence,” the researchers wrote.  
 The report is being released in stages for comment and is
intended to aid regulators and policymakers in considering how
much oversight is required for financial markets.  
 Government Backstop  
 Shadow banking, which converted risky assets such as
subprime mortgages into seemingly risk-free, short-term
securities, began to break down in August 2007, requiring a
near-complete government backstop, the Fed researchers wrote.
This included measures to prop up American International Group
Inc. and funding for investors to buy asset-backed securities
such as bonds backed by car-loan payments.  
 “Their most powerful observation is that such protection
had to be provided ex post, in order to prevent Depression
2.0,” said  Paul McCulley , a managing director at bond fund
manager Pacific Investment Management Co., in an e-mail.
McCulley coined the term shadow banking in 2007 to describe the
web of financing sources outside the traditional network of
deposit-taking banks.  
 Transformation  
 The transformation of high-risk, 30-year mortgages into AAA
rated securities held by  money market funds  involved multiple
transactions along an interconnected chain as shadow banks were
highly specialized, according to the report. The typical
transformation required seven steps, the report said.  
 “Over the past decade, the shadow banking system provided
sources of inexpensive funding for credit by converting opaque,
risky, long-term assets into money-like and seemingly riskless
short-term securities,” according to the report’s authors, who
also included  Adam Ashcraft  and  Hayley Boesky .  
 The shadow banking system also helped to finance a
significant part of the U.S. current account deficit by creating
trillions of dollars of top-rated securities that were purchased
by foreign investors, according to the researchers.  
 Traditional banks are shielded from bank runs by access to
loans at the Federal Reserve and through the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.’s protection of deposits.  
 Promises  
 Before the crisis, the shadow banking system was protected
by promises from banks to be buyers of last resort if investors
couldn’t sell their securities, and by companies such as bond
insurer Ambac Financial Group Inc. and AIG Financial Products to
cover credit losses in loan pools. That allowed the securities
to get AAA ratings, considered risk-free to many investors.  
 “Once private-sector put providers’ solvency was
questioned, even if solvency in some cases was perfectly
satisfactory, confidence in the liquidity and credit puts that
underpinned the stability of the shadow banking system vanished,
triggering a run,” according to the report.  
 “It’s an interesting historical document, but if anything
it’s a great illustration of what the Fed did wrong,” said
 Christopher Whalen , managing director at Institutional Risk
Analytics. The Fed, along with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, allowed banks to create virtually unlimited
securities via shadow banking, he said.  
 Fading  
 Rule changes by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
and the SEC are requiring banks to bring many of these
obligations onto their own balance sheets. As that happens, the
shadow banking system will disappear, according to Whalen.  
 “The report is a reminder that we’ve taken trillions of
dollars of financing out of the economy,” said Whalen. “It’s
going to run off in four to five years and it’s not being
replaced.”  
 A diagram detailing the entities that make up the shadow
banking system requires enlargement to read.  
 “We recommend printing the accompanying map of the shadow
banking system as a 36” by 48” poster,” the report said.  
 “When you look at the confused mess of transactions on the
map, you have to ask how this was allowed to exist in the first
place,” Whalen said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Pacific Investment Management Co managing director Paul McCulley. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
