-- TSMC to Spend About $9 Billion on Taichung Plant to Open in Early 2012
-- Tim Culpan
-- 2010-07-16T05:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/tsmc-to-spend-about-9-billion-on-taichung-plant-to-open-in-early-2012.html

          
          
             Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. , the world’s largest custom manufacturer of chips, will
spend NT$300 billion ($9.3 billion) on its Taichung factory, a
sign it expects increasing global demand for components used in
phones and computers.  
 The chipmaker will hire as many as 8,000 workers at the
central Taiwan plant, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Morris Chang  said at a ground-breaking ceremony at the site,
attended by government and company officials.  
 “The spending plan shows TSMC is very confident about the
industry outlook and expects a global shortage of chips in the
long term,”  Jack Hung , an analyst at Mega Securities Co., said
by telephone in Taipei. “As TSMC has the capital and its
smaller rivals do not, its investment in a new plant has the
potential to increase its market share.”  
 Taiwan Semiconductor, whose clients include  Qualcomm Inc. 
and Nvidia Corp., is expanding after posting record sales last
quarter that beat analyst estimates as global demand for
computers and digital electronics climbed. The Hsinchu, northern
Taiwan-based company’s spending this year of $4.8 billion will
be equal to 15 percent of the global chip equipment market,
according to data from industry group SEMI.  
 ‘Gigafab’  
 Taichung will be TSMC’s third so-called Gigafab, with
capacity to make 100,000 12-inch wafers of chips per month,
Chang, 79, said today. The new facility will incorporate solar
power, and light-emitting diode lighting with a goal of zero
greenhouse gas emissions, he said.  
 The Taichung factory adds to  plants  in Hsinchu, Tainan,
southern Taiwan and China and the $9 billion spending on the new
facility will be spread over coming years.  
 TSMC expects to hire up to 4,000 engineers at the site,
Senior Vice President of Operations  Mark Liu  said before the
ceremony in Taichung today.  
 Taiwan Semiconductor  shares  fell 0.5 percent to NT$60 at
12:56 p.m. in Taipei. The stock has lost 7 percent this year,
compared with a 6.3 percent drop in the benchmark Taiex index.  
 Chang on June 15 raised his industry sales growth forecast
to 30 percent from 22 percent, citing the global economic
rebound and rising demand in emerging markets. Chang, who
founded Taiwan Semiconductor 23 years ago, is closely followed
as a market forecaster because his company has wide access to
the chip industry.  
 SMIC Stake  
 Taiwan Semiconductor last month received Taiwan government
approval to take possession of an 8 percent stake in
Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. which it
accepted as settlement for a trade-secrets lawsuit it brought
against the Shanghai-based company.  
 Intel Corp., the world’s biggest chipmaker, posted record
second-quarter revenue, topping analysts’ estimates, driven by
corporate spending. ASML Holding NV, Europe’s biggest maker of
chip equipment, had  profit  for the period that surpassed
analysts’ predictions and forecast record revenue for the year.  
 Global sales of semiconductor equipment will more than
double to $32.5 billion this year and climb 9 percent next year,
San Jose-based SEMI said in a July 13  statement .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Culpan  in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        