-- Snaking Winds May Bring New York Heat to Tokyo, Boost Power Use
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-16T08:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/snaking-winds-may-bring-record-new-york-heat-to-tokyo-increase-power-use.html

          
          
             Weather patterns that caused heat
waves from New York to China may bring above-normal temperatures
to Tokyo this month, prompting Japan’s largest utility to
predict a surge in power demand for cooling homes and offices.  
 A narrow band of strong winds in the atmosphere, known as
the Jet Stream, which moves from the west to east is meandering
in an unusual pattern this year and causing heat waves, said
Hisashi Nakamura, an atmospheric scientist at the University of
Tokyo. The city had its warmest day of the year today and the
Japan Meteorological Agency has forecast hotter weather in the
Tokyo region for the week starting July 18.  
 “Snaking east-bound winds are an element of the chain
reaction around the globe that is bringing extreme weather from
the U.S. east coast through Europe to Asia,” Nakamura said in
an July 14 interview at the university campus.  
 Temperatures in New York broke daily records this month and
reached above 100 degrees (38 Celsius) for two days for the
first time since 1999 while northern China experienced the
hottest weather in six decades, boosting power consumption.
 Tokyo Electric Power Co.  expects peak intraday demand in the
Japanese capital and its surrounding areas may reach the third-
highest level since 1951, spokesman  Ryo Shimizu  said yesterday.  
 Asia’s largest utility rose 0.5 percent to close at 2,379
yen in Tokyo, while the Topix index fell 1.9 percent. Tokyo
Electric has declined 1.3 percent in the past year compared with
a 3.6 percent decline in the benchmark.  
 Power Sales  
 “A hotter summer would give a sense of reassurance to
shareholders of Tokyo Electric and Japanese utilities,” said
 Tomohiro Jikihara , an analyst at Deutsche Securities Inc. in
Tokyo. Power sales volume rose 3.3 percent in June because of
hotter weather and on industrial demand, the utility said in a
statement today.  
 The Jet Stream divides cool air in the north and warm air
to the south as it circles the world and usually bends north and
south like a  sine wave , or in a pattern resembling a snake, said
 Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at  Planalytics Inc. 
in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. Disturbances that develop along the
band help moderate temperatures.  
 “The problem is that over the past six weeks the Jet
Stream has been abnormally far north and it hasn’t had any drops
that would support cold switches,” Rouiller said by telephone
yesterday. “It has allowed warm air to push steadily north and
intensify, and once this happens it persists.”  
 ‘Heat Domes’  
 High pressure systems develop south of the Jet Stream and
turn into heat pumps. These “heat domes” further act as a
barrier preventing the jet stream from dipping south, and it
becomes a self-perpetuating system for a time, he said.  
 “Once they form, whether they form over Russia, or Europe
or the U.S., it usually means prolonged periods of heat,”
Rouiller said. “I have seen this pattern set up before and we
will probably be in it for a while.”  
 Warmer-than-average weather persisted across northwest
Europe last week, boosting power demand for air-conditioning
in Germany, the U.K. and France. European parts of Russia also
experienced hot and dry weather this month, forcing the
government to declare drought emergencies in several regions.  
 The Pacific high-pressure systems that bring warmer summer
weather to Japan are gaining in strength this month and can
increase Tokyo’s intraday-high temperature by 5 degrees above
normal, said Motoaki Takekawa, a forecaster at the country’s
meteorological agency.  
 Tokyo Weather  
 In Tokyo’s Otemachi financial district, the highest
intraday temperature was recorded at  39.5 Celsius  on July 20,
2004, according to data compiled by the agency. Temperature in
the district reached 31.9 degrees Celsius today, the highest
this year, according to the agency.  
 Tokyo Electric predicts peak power demand may reach 61,500
megawatts and the utility can supply as much as 65,200 megawatts,
spokesman Shimizu said by telephone.  
 Tokyo Electric  recorded  its highest intraday-high demand of
64,300 megawatts on July 24, 2001, and the second-highest at
63,200 megawatts on Aug. 1 the following year, according to data
on the utility’s Website.  
 A rise of 1 degree in temperatures on an early afternoon
during summer could bolster power demand in Tokyo by as much
as 1,700 megawatts, or the equivalent of requirements of about
340,000 homes in the city, Shimizu said.  
 Asia’s best hope for relief from the heat could be typhoons,
which are called hurricanes in the western hemisphere, Rouiller
of Planalytics said. While typhoons can increase temperatures
for short periods of time as they arrive, the big storms also
bring moisture, which can mitigate some of the heat, he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net 
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A man looks at electric fans displayed for sale  
                       
                         
                           Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A man looks at electric fans displayed for sale at an electronics store in Tokyo. Heat waves will likely hit the capital city this summer. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A man looks at electric fans displayed for sale at an electronics store in Tokyo. Heat waves will likely hit the capital city this summer. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
