-- South Africa Rand Falls on Gold, Stock Drop, Concern About Global Recovery
-- Garth Theunissen
-- 2010-07-16T15:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/south-africa-rand-falls-on-gold-stock-drop-concern-about-global-recovery.html

          
          
             The rand weakened against the dollar
for a second day, reversing earlier gains, as the price of gold
slumped and concern the global recovery is faltering prompted
investors to reduce holdings of higher-yielding assets.  
 South Africa’s currency declined 0.2 percent to 7.6012 by
5:28 p.m. in Johannesburg, from a previous close of 7.5852,
reversing an earlier advance of as much as 0.7 percent to
7.5295. The move reduced rand’s weekly gain to less than 0.1
percent.  
 Gold futures fell the most in two weeks as the euro’s
renewed strength against the dollar curbed demand for the
precious metal as an alternative investment. Stocks tumbled from
London to New York and oil fell for a third day as lower-than-
estimated revenue at companies including General Electric Co.
and Citigroup Inc., combined with a slump in U.S. consumer
confidence raised fears the global economic recovery is slowing.  
 “The gold price got crunched today and there are also
concerns about global growth, which isn’t good for the rand,”
said  Marlene Miller , a senior dealer at Peregrine Quant, a hedge
fund in Cape Town. “Concerns about global growth and weaker
earnings also add to the negatives.”  
 The euro is headed for the third straight weekly gain
against the dollar, prompting investors to dump holdings of the
metal bought as an alternative to currency depreciation as
Europe’s debt crisis unfolded.  
 Gold Futures  
 Gold futures for August delivery fell 1.4 percent to $1,191
as of 4:29 p.m. in London. A close at that price would mark the
biggest drop since July 1 and leave the metal down 1.6 percent
for the week.  
 Declines in the rand were capped on bets foreign capital
inflows into South Africa may boost the currency. Nippon
Telegraph & Telephone Corp.’s $3.2 billion acquisition of
Dimension Data Plc is “rand positive,”  John Cairns , head of
foreign-exchange research at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg,
wrote in a client note today. Dimension Data, known as Didata,
estimates half of the $3.2 billion will flow to South Africa.  
 The deal is “positive” for the rand but gains in the
currency have been limited because the foreign capital inflows
won’t be immediate,” said  Ian Cruickshanks , head of research at
Nedbank Treasury in Johannesburg. The deal concludes in October,
 Brett Dawson , chief executive officer of Didata, said yesterday.  
 Government bonds in South Africa snapped two days of
declines, with benchmark 13.5 percent security due September
2015 gaining 10 cents to 124.05 rand, taking its third straight
weekly advance to 15 cents. The yield on the bond declined 2
basis points today to 7.73 percent for a weekly drop of 5 basis
points.  
 Investors increased bets that South Africa’s central bank
may lower its 6.5 percent benchmark interest rate when it next
meets on July 22, forward-rate agreements show. The cost of
 three-month contracts for cash in one month  declined 1 basis
point to 6.41 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        