-- South Korea's Honam Acquires Malaysia's Titan Chemicals for $1.25 Billion
-- Seonjin Cha
-- 2010-07-16T07:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/south-korea-s-honam-acquires-malaysia-s-titan-chemicals-for-1-25-billion.html

          
          
             Honam Petrochemical Corp.  will
acquire Malaysia’s  Titan Chemicals Corp.  in an all-cash deal
valued at $1.25 billion in South Korea’s biggest overseas
acquisition this year.  
 South Korea’s second-largest ethylene maker will buy all of
Titan’s stock for 2.35 ringgit (73 cents) a share, the Malaysian
company said in a statement today. That’s a 27 percent premium
to Titan’s closing price of 1.85 ringgit yesterday. Honam will
pay 1.5 trillion won ($1.25 billion) for the purchase, the
Seoul-based company said in an e-mailed statement.  
 South Korean chemical companies are increasing investment
overseas as a global economic recovery boosts demand for
ethylene, a raw material used to make plastics and synthetic
fibers. Honam said it expects the Titan acquisition to bolster
its presence in Southeast Asia, China, the Middle East and
Central Asia, and raise its revenue to 12 trillion won this year.  
 “The acquisition will help Honam become Asia’s largest
ethylene maker,” said  Yoo Young Kuk , an analyst at KTB
Securities Co. “The increased ethylene output capacity will
boost Honam’s medium to long-term growth forecast as the global
economic recovery will increase chemical demand.”  
 The South Korean ethylene producer has enough cash reserves
to finance the Titan acquisition, though it may raise some funds
in the market, Roger Lee, a company spokesman, said by telephone,
without specifying whether the money would be raised through
debt or equity.  
 Honam has signed an agreement to acquire a 37.3 percent
stake in Titan from Chao Group and a 35.3 percent interest from
 Permodalan National Bhd. , Lee said. Honam is required to make an
unconditional takeover offer to the remaining holders at a cash
consideration of 2.35 ringgit a share, Titan said.  
 Overseas Sales  
 Shares of  Honam  advanced 8.8 percent to close at 161,500
won, the highest since Oct. 18, 2007. The benchmark Kospi index
declined 0.7 percent. Trading in  Titan  was halted in Kuala
Lumpur today.  
 Overseas sales account for 55 percent of Honam’s total
revenue, Lee said. The company plans to increase the ratio, he
said, without giving a target.  
 Honam’s annual capacity to produce ethylene will rise to
2.47 million metric tons after the acquisition, from 1.75
million tons currently, the company said.  
 Titan is Malaysia’s biggest producer of olefins and
polyolefins, used in making plastic parts in appliances and
automobiles, and reported sales of $1.64 billion last year.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc is the international financial adviser
for Honam and RHB Investment Bank Bhd. is the company’s
Malaysian adviser, the chemical producer said.  
 South Korea’s  Hanwha Chemical Corp.  last year formed a
venture with  Saudi International Petrochemical Co.  to build a 4
billion-riyal ($1.1 billion) plant in the Middle East’s biggest
economy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net 
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        