-- South Africa Says It Has Halted Series of Attacks on Foreign Nationals
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-16T12:10:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/south-africa-says-it-has-halted-series-of-attacks-on-foreign-nationals.html

          
          
             South African authorities said they
had halted a series of attacks on foreign nationals, preventing
a recurrence of widespread xenophobic violence in May 2008 that
claimed more than 60 lives and drove thousands from their homes.  
 Police and soldiers were deployed to potential flashpoints
this month after community organizations warned of migrants
coming under renewed threat from local residents, who see them
as competition for jobs and housing. Several Somali-owned shops
were looted over the past few days, while scores of foreigners
vacated shack settlements in Cape Town and nearby towns.  
 “What could have been mass displacement has been minimal
displacement and the strategy of keeping people in their homes
and in their social environments has worked,”  Helen Zille ,
premier of the Western Cape Province, told reporters in Cape
Town today. “Mediation teams have been doing an extremely good
job, the early-warning systems have been working and the police
have been out there doing what they have to do.”  
 Millions of economic migrants, many from neighboring
Zimbabwe, live and work in South Africa, which has the
continent’s largest  economy .  
 “South Africans in their nature are not xenophobic,”
Police Minister Nathi Mthethwa told reporters. “You may have
sporadic incidents. All the public figures have to stand up and
prevent what could be xenophobia.”  
 Zille, Mthethwa and State Security Minister Siyabonga Cwele
were unable to provide data on how many migrants had been
attacked or displaced by xenophobic violence this year.  
 “Most of these incidents happen in poor areas,” Cwele
told reporters. “The information at our disposal points to the
root cause being socioeconomic, nothing political.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        