-- Standard Chartered to Start Agricultural Bank Cooperation in Hong Kong
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-07-16T00:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/standard-chartered-to-start-agricultural-bank-cooperation-in-hong-kong.html

          
          
             Standard Chartered Plc , which
invested $500 million in Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s
initial public offering, plans to start a cooperation agreement
with the Chinese lender by offering advice on capital markets
business in Hong Kong.  
 “We’re planning to initiate the first phase in the Hong
Kong market,”  Jaspal Bindra , chief executive officer for Asia
at Standard Chartered, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV on
July 14. “That’s the market where there are most advanced talks
and we would like to go further. It’s a home market for us.”  
 Agricultural Bank’s IPO makes China home to four of the
world’s 10 biggest banks by  market value , half a decade after
the country’s first major state-owned lender went public. The
investment allows Standard Chartered, which makes most of its
profits from emerging markets, to speed up growth in the world’s
most populous nation by partnering with China’s largest bank by
customers.  
 “Standard Chartered has always held the philosophy that we
are not one for passive investment,” said Bindra. “So we would
only like to make an investment where we can leverage that with
some level of participation, and I think Agricultural Bank
offered us that opportunity.”  
 London-based Standard Chartered aims to boost its branch
network in China to about 70 by the end of the year, Bindra said.
The bank currently has 56 outlets in the country.  
 Agricultural Bank has “a high appetite both for
internationalization and expanding their product range,” he
said. The Chinese lender will gain access to the global network
of Standard Chartered, which includes operations in 14 African
countries, according to the executive.  
 Agricultural Bank  rose  0.8 percent on its debut in Shanghai
yesterday, the smallest first-day trading gain among the nine
lenders that have sold shares in the city in the past four years.
The bank starts trading in Hong Kong today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        