-- Sugar Futures Rise in `Bubble' on Near-Term Shortage, Sucden's Penney Says
-- Elizabeth Campbell
-- 2010-07-16T18:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/sugar-futures-rise-in-bubble-on-near-term-shortage-sucden-s-penney-says.html

          
          
             A near-term shortage of sugar,
rising demand and an export bottleneck in Brazil have created a
bubble, lifting prices to the highest level in three months,
according to  Nick Penney , a trader with Sucden Financial Ltd.  
 Demand is rising as “refiners want to ship in raw sugar
quickly to take advantage of the high premium of white sugar
over raw,” Penney said today in an e-mail. There’s a
“logistical nightmare” at Brazil’s main ports with ships lined
up for cargoes of the sweetener, Penney said in a telephone
interview yesterday from London.  
 “This is creating a bit of an artificial, short-term
bubble in the market, a short-term squeeze,” Penney said.
“Once shipments are complete, we don’t anticipate demand will
be as great in the second half of the year and it may well be
that prices will come down.”  
 Loading operations were halted in Brazil’s Santos port
after rain was forecast, Penney wrote yesterday in a report.
Brazil, the top producer, accounts for 54 percent of the world’s
exports, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  
 Sellers are seeking additional supplies in advance of the
Islamic holy month of Ramadan, which starts in August, he said.
During the month, Muslims gather at sunset for a meal, breaking
a daylong fast. Ramadan culminates in the Eid al-Fitr festival.
Both events boost sugar consumption as people tend to eat more
sweets.  
 Raw sugar for October delivery fell 0.28 cent, or 1.6
percent, to 17.11 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.
Earlier, prices reached 17.61 cents, the highest level for a
most-active contract since April 15. The sweetener has dropped
44 percent from a 29-year high of 30.4 cents on Feb. 1.  
 Refined-sugar futures for October delivery dropped $8.50,
or 1.6 percent, to $520 a metric ton on London’s Liffe exchange.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        