-- BP Oil Spill Undermines SunPower, Vestas as Energy Bill Trips
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-07-16T13:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/sunpower-vestas-lose-more-than-big-oil-from-spill-as-energy-bill-fails.html

          
          
             SunPower Corp. and Vestas Wind
Systems A/S, the biggest solar-panel supplier in the U.S. and
the world’s largest wind turbine maker, are losing more than Big
Oil from BP Plc’s spill in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Their  shares  have fallen as much as 22 percent since the
leak began April 20, compared with a 12 percent decline in the
52-member  Bloomberg World Oil & Gas Index  that includes BP.  
 A bill in U.S. Congress to expand alternative energy in the
biggest oil-consuming nation was set aside by legislators until
they can review offshore-drilling safety. Investors in turn sold
wind and solar stocks as support waned for the bill and as
Europe considered cuts to clean-energy subsidies, said  John Hardy , an analyst at Gleacher & Co. in Greenwich, Connecticut.  
 “There’s a lot of rhetoric out there on the possibility
that the spill could help renewable energy,” Hardy said in an
interview. “I see it delaying clean-energy legislation until
the Senate’s ready to deal with offshore drilling.”  
 Before the spill, the legislation’s authors included an
expansion to offshore oil exploration to win the Republican
votes needed to pass a law that caps the greenhouse gases. Such
limits would have helped shares of emissions-free wind and solar
energy compete with generators that burn coal and natural gas.  
 The compromise, underpinned by increased offshore drilling,
collapsed after the spill. Democrats who wanted emissions
legislation have since threatened to pull their support if the
bill continued to call for more oil drilling.  
 Disaster’s ‘Irony’  
 “It’s ironic that this disaster is jeopardizing energy
legislation when it’s clear that we need it more than ever,”
said  Kevin Landis , who manages $260 million at Firsthand Funds
including SunPower and competitor Suntech Power Holdings Co.
“It’s definitely a drag on the renewable sector.”  
 Denmark’s  Vestas  has lost 16 percent since the rig
explosion that triggered the spill, knocking 11.08 billion
Danish krone ($1.92 billion) from its market value.  SunPower  has
dropped 22 percent, almost twice the loss of the oil index,
whose members were hit by drilling bans in other nations after
the BP spill and predictions of higher insurance premiums by
explorers including Brazil’s Petroleo Brasileiro SA.  
 Vestas and SunPower underperformed the 88-member  WilderHill
New Energy Global Innovation Index . It lost 12 percent in the
period, helped by gains in companies more focused on non-U.S.
markets or energy-saving products like light-emitting diodes.  
 Canada Oil Sands  
 The losses contrast even more with gains of Canada’s
largest oil-sands producers, which tap deposits of crude mixed
with earth in a method that can scar landscapes and add to
global warming pollution. Canadian energy stocks are trading at
their highest  premiums  to global oil stocks in five years.  
 Investors may be concerned with declining government
incentives from Germany to the U.S. as nations seek to save
money, said  Roger Ballentine , president of Green Strategies
Inc., a consulting company Washington.  
 “We’re heading into a long-term period of fiscal
austerity,” Ballentine, a climate adviser to the Clinton
Administration, said at a conference in New York on June 29.  
 The reaction by U.S. Congress to promote environmental
rules has been less than in 1969, when a public backlash against
oil drilling ensued from the much smaller spill off  Santa
Barbara . The movement led lawmakers to devise the Clean Air Act
and the Environmental Protection Agency, the foundation of
hundreds of regulations on the energy industry today.  
 Santa Barbara Spill  
 The Gulf oil spill probably won’t create the same societal
shifts that occurred after the Santa Barbara oil spill in 1969,
said Joshua Schimel, chairman of the environmental studies
program at the University of California at Santa Barbara, which
was created as a result of the 1969 spill.  
 “The Santa Barbara spill happened at time when people were
already waking up to pollution and to the damage we were doing
to the environment and to its habitability,” Schimel said.  
 Also, the oil fouled a beach of a politically connected,
affluent and highly educated community that did not have strong
economic ties to the oil industry, Schimel said. “In Santa
Barbara, oil was not really part of our economy. In the Gulf,
there are lots and lots of communities that depend on it.”  
 Most Americans oppose President  Barack Obama ’s ban on
deepwater oil drilling in response to the spill, holding the
company responsible for the “freak accident,” according to a
Bloomberg national poll conducted July 9-12. BP said yesterday
it stopped the flow from the leaking well for the first time and
may know within two days whether it is safe to leave a new
sealing-cap system installed over it in place.  
 State Incentives  
 San Jose, California-based  SunPower , which has more panels
installed in the U.S. than other manufacturers, is building
solar plants from California to Florida in states that provide
incentives. The company needs a renewable energy and climate
protection bill to boost orders for its high-efficiency panels,
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Werner  said at a conference in New
York on June 9.  
 Solar panel and wind turbine manufacturers said they will
continue to press for a national standard that would build upon
efforts in 30 states that require utilities to get an increasing
share of power from renewable energy. They just aren’t depending
on that happening this year.  
 “We aren’t counting on that oil leak to increase demand
for solar,” said  Peter Xie , president of Solarfun Power
Holdings Co., a Chinese maker of solar power cells and modules.
He made the comments during an interview in New York on June 14.
“We need to get costs down so that we can compete without
subsidies.”  
 Vestas Plan  
 Vestas was counting on a U.S. mandate for utilities to buy
renewable energy and a price set on carbon emissions that would
help the industry compete with coal and natural gas. They were
central to its plans to spend $1 billion to expand U.S.
manufacturing to gain a bigger share the American market.  
 To gain support from Republicans, lawmakers said they next
may strip a climate-protection provision to pass an energy bill
that would require utilities to get 15 percent of their
electricity from renewable sources by 2021.  
 The compromise would fail to address the environmental
costs of oil drilling and coal mining that a carbon cap would,
leaving fossil fuels with an ongoing advantage, according to
 Lewis Hay , Chief Executive Officer NextEra Energy Inc., the
largest U.S. producer of wind and solar energy.  
 “I really would like for us to pass comprehensive climate
and energy legislation,” Hay said in a June 23 interview.
“We’re all investing less dollars until we get greater clarity
and that’s not good for the economy and it’s not good for
jobs.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Firsthand Funds co-founder and fund manager Kevin Landis. Source: Firsthand via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
