-- Swiss Stocks Fall for Second Day as Roche Retreats; Lonza Shares Decline
-- Adam Ewing
-- 2010-07-16T15:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/swiss-stocks-fall-for-second-day-as-roche-retreats-lonza-shares-decline.html

          
          
             Swiss stocks tumbled for a second
day as a slide in health-care shares overshadowed a gain in
offshore drilling company  Transocean Ltd.  after BP Plc
temporarily stopped its Gulf of Mexico oil leak.  
 Roche Holding AG , the world’s biggest maker of tumor drugs,
fell 4.2 percent, the most in 15 months, after a U.S. review
said its top-seller Avastin didn’t slow breast tumors in new
studies as much as in earlier data used to win approval. Bank
stocks retreated after  Citigroup Inc . reported revenue that
missed analysts’ estimates and U.S. consumer confidence slumped.
Transocean jumped 2 percent.  
 The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  fell 106.7, or 1.7
percent, to 6,184.37, down 0.4 percent this week. The SMI has
retreated 11 percent from this year’s high on April 15 amid
speculation that Europe’s debt crisis may derail the economic
recovery and concern that Chinese authorities are cooling their
nation’s rate of growth. The broader  Swiss Performance Index 
dropped 1.6 percent today.  
 “The overriding focus now is on potential downgrades to
forecasts on the prospects of a weakening macro environment,”
said  Anthony Robertson , a fund manager at BlueBay Asset
Management Plc in London, which oversees about $38 billion.
“Earnings are likely to remain robust against easy comparables
this time last year as European corporates benefit from the
weaker euro, but I’m skeptical the economy will improve much.”  
 Roche Retreats  
 Roche sank 4.2 percent to 144.5 Swiss francs. Avastin
paired with chemotherapy treatments didn’t help patients survive
longer than using the other drugs alone, according to a U.S.
Food and Drug Administration staff review released today.
Outside advisers to the FDA will meet July 20 to evaluate
Avastin and consider whether use in breast malignancies should
be continued, expanded, or halted.  
 Lonza Group AG , the largest maker of drug ingredients,
retreated 3.1 percent to 71.25 francs, its first loss in four
days.  
 Transocean, the owner of the Deepwater Horizon offshore rig
which sank in April, increased 2 percent to 55.8 francs, paring
two days of declines. BP said after the close of European
trading yesterday that oil has stopped flowing into the Gulf of
Mexico for the first time in about three months. BP is
evaluating data from a pressure test it began yesterday that
will determine whether the Macondo well can remain sealed.  
 Shares declined as Citigroup and  Bank of America Corp .
topped analyst estimates for per-share earnings while missing on
sales. Stocks extended a drop after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of U.S.
consumer sentiment fell to 66.5 in July from 76 a month earlier,
the lowest level in a year.  
 UBS AG , Europe’s largest bank by assets, fell 2.2 percent
to 15.04 francs, while  Credit Suisse Group AG  lost 2.7 percent,
sliding to 43.03 francs, declining for a third day.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        