-- British Gilts Advance, Pound Declines Amid Signs the Recovery Is Fading
-- Paul Dobson
-- 2010-07-16T15:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/u-k-pound-declines-versus-dollar-yen-euro-amid-signs-recovery-is-fading.html

          
          
             The pound dropped the most in a
month and U.K. government bonds rose as signs of a fading global
recovery curbed demand for assets that are correlated to
economic growth.  
 Sterling pared a weekly gain versus the U.S. currency and
traded at the weakest level in more than six weeks against the
euro as reports showed U.S. consumer prices and sentiment fell.
British house prices are set to drop through 2012 as government
spending cuts and tighter credit deter buyers, Capital Economics
Ltd. said.  
 “We’re leaning toward a risk-off environment and the pound
tends to suffer when the world moves to risk-off,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund sales at Mizuho Corporate
Bank Ltd. in London. House-price data “is pointing toward
stagnation, and that can be pound-negative,” he said.  
 The pound fell 1 percent to $1.5307 as of 4:38 p.m. in
London, its biggest decline since June 11. Sterling slid 2.1
percent to 132.36 yen and depreciated as much as 1 percent to
84.59 pence per euro, the least since June 1.  
 The U.S. consumer-price index fell 0.1 percent in June, a
third monthly decline, the Labor Department said today.  
 The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment fell to 66.5 in July from 76 a month
earlier. The gauge was projected to fall to 74, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 62 economists.  
 Gilts Gain  
 The pound has still risen 1.6 percent for the week against
the dollar after reports showed a greater-than-estimated drop in
U.K. jobless benefits and stronger-than-forecast inflation.
Sterling has gained 7.6 percent since reaching a low for the
year of $1.4231 on May 20, as confidence rose that the
government formed after the May 6 election will reduce Britain’s
deficit without sending the nation back into recession.  
 The pound was set for a 0.6 percent decline against the
euro this week as growing optimism that the Greek debt crisis
may be contained boosted the European currency.  
 Ten-year U.K. government bonds jumped in afternoon trading
after the U.S. confidence report was released, sending the yield
four basis points lower to 3.33 percent, compared with 3.34
percent on July 9.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold U.K. 30-year bonds
instead of equivalent-maturity German securities may narrow as
Britain refrains from selling similar-maturity debt this
quarter, BNP Paribas SA said.  
 “We find tactical long gilt 30-year positions versus
Germany tempting, particularly ahead of the launch of the new
bund 2042” on July 21,  Matteo Regesta , a fixed-income
strategist in London, said by e-mail today. “The June inflation
data still pointed to a continuation of the downward path” in
the U.K. that started in May, he said.  
 “The issuance calendar does not include further long-end
issuance until at least October,” apart from one sale of a 2030
gilt, Regesta wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        