-- U.K. Is `Junior Partner' to U.S., Cameron Says Before Visit to Washington
-- Robert Hutton
-- 2010-07-16T16:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/u-k-is-junior-partner-to-u-s-cameron-says-before-visit-to-washington.html

          
          
             David Cameron , preparing for his
first visit to the U.S. as U.K. prime minister, said he sees
Britain as America’s “junior partner.”  
 “President Obama and I have a very good relationship, we
get on well,” Cameron told  Time magazine  in an interview
published today before next week’s trip to Washington. “I
believe in the special relationship. Britain is, of course, the
junior partner. I hope we bring things to that relationship.”  
 Cameron has faced criticism at home for the way he handled
President  Barack Obama ’s criticism of BP Plc over the Gulf of
Mexico oil leak. In June, one newspaper told him to “Stand up
for your country” after he said he understood the president’s
“frustration.”  
 “This all fits in with what Cameron has been saying since
2006, that he wants to have a more measured, balanced and less
emotional approach,” said  Robin Niblett , director of London-
based foreign affairs institute Chatham House. “We as Brits
need to understand that we’re no longer just sitting in the same
sandpit looking out on the world from a Cold War perspective.”  
 The Senate Foreign Relations Committee said yesterday it
will call BP executives to testify to address their concerns
that the company’s business interests and last year’s release of
Lockerbie bomber  Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi  were linked. Britain’s
ambassador to the U.S.,  Nigel Sheinwald , wrote to the panel’s
chairman,  John Kerry , saying he wanted to reject
“inaccuracies” that were “harmful” to the U.K.  
 ‘Troubled’  
 “I am troubled by the claims made in the press that
Megrahi was released because of an oil deal involving BP, and
that the medical evidence supporting his release was paid for by
the Libyan government,” Sheinwald wrote.  
 It was  Winston Churchill  who enshrined the term “special
relationship” in the aftermath of World War II to describe the
closeness of Britain’s ties with the U.S., which won
independence from its colonial master in 1783.  
 Churchill stepped out of the bath in front of  Franklin D. Roosevelt  to declare he had “nothing to hide,” according to
the premier’s wartime secretary Patrick Kinna.  
 Harold Macmillan , the Conservative prime minister from 1957
to 1963 whose portrait hung on Cameron’s wall in opposition,
said he hoped to “play Greece to their Rome,” offering culture
and sophistication to America’s might.  
 Margaret Thatcher  and  Ronald Reagan  were close personally
as well as politically. More recently,  Tony Blair  found himself
derided at home as a “poodle” to  George W. Bush , after he
declared there was a “blood price” to the U.S.-U.K. alliance.  
 ‘Full and Frank’  
 Blair’s successor  Gordon Brown  distanced himself from Bush,
wearing a suit to their Camp David meeting, and describing the
discussions as “full and frank.”  
 Cameron’s spokesman  Steve Field  told reporters today that
the prime minister was attempting to be realistic about the
nature of the relationship.  
 “Clearly the U.S. is a larger country,” Field said. “Its
economy is five times the size of the U.K.’s as is its
population. It has a larger army. We need to understand the
dynamics of the relationship, and to understand our role. That’s
the best way to bring our influence to bear.”  
 In addition to “of course” discussing BP, Europe’s
second-biggest energy company by market value, when he meets
Obama at the White House, the prime minister said he expected to
talk to the president about Afghanistan, Iran, the Middle East
and Turkey’s entry to the European Union.  
 Americans may take offense at the prime minister’s
characterization of the U.S. role in D-Day, on June 6, 1944,
when Allied forces landed in Normandy to begin the liberation of
Europe from Nazi Germany.  
 “I think of my grandfather going ashore at D-Day, with the
Americans in support of the British,” Cameron said. The U.S.
landed 73,000 troops on the day, to 83,000 British and Canadian
forces. The  estimated American casualty number  for the day,
around 6,600, was more than twice the British figure.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. prime minister David Cameron. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
