-- U.K. Prosecutors Charge House of Lord's Member Taylor Over Expense Claims
-- Erik Larson
-- 2010-07-16T15:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/u-k-prosecutors-charge-house-of-lord-s-member-taylor-over-expense-claims.html

          
          
             Prosecutors in Britain charged
Conservative House of Lords member  John David Beckett Taylor 
with improperly claiming more than 11,000 pounds ($16,871) in
expenses over a two-year period.  
 The lawmaker, known as Lord Taylor, was reimbursed for car
mileage and overnight stays while working in Parliament in 2006
and 2007 because he wrongfully claimed to live outside London,
the  Crown Prosecution Service  said today in an e-mailed
statement. Taylor, who didn’t immediately return a call to his
office for comment, is scheduled to appear in court August 13.  
 Taylor “actually resided in London,” CPS lawyer  Keir Starmer  said in the statement. “We concluded that there is
sufficient evidence and it is in the public interest to bring
criminal charges against Lord Taylor.”  
 Prosecutors have charged six lawmakers, and dropped
investigations of two others, since a series of stories about
parliamentary expenses started appearing in the Daily Telegraph
newspaper on May 8, 2009. Hundreds of lawmakers were later asked
to repay expenses to defuse the scandal.  
 Lawmakers submitted expense claims for items ranging from a
floating house for ducks to the cost of clearing a moat.  
 Last month a judge ruled that Britain’s criminal
courts are the right venue to try U.K. politicians for false
accounting over their expenses, rejecting a claim by four
lawmakers that “parliamentary privilege” meant they could only
be tried by Parliament.  
 The four men,  Elliot Morley ,  David Chaytor  and  Jim Devine ,
Labour members of the House of Commons, and  Paul White , a Tory
member of the House of Lords, pleaded not-guilty in March. The
same month, prosecutors said they didn’t have enough evidence to
charge Labour House of Lords member  Manzila Pola Uddin  with
expenses violations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        