-- U.S. Highland Names Long Operating Chief After Officers Killed Plane Crash
-- Theo Keith
-- 2010-07-16T16:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/u-s-highland-names-long-operating-chief-after-officers-killed-plane-crash.html

          
          
             U.S. Highland Inc. , the maker of
Motocross performance motorcycles, named parent company AB
Highland Group’s Director of Asia Operations Darin Long as chief
operating officer among moves to replace three executives who
died in a plane crash July 10.  
 Martin Lind was appointed vice president of operations, and
Michael La Lond became interim finance chief, U.S. Highland said
yesterday in a  filing  with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  
 The men will replace President  Mats Malmberg , 41; Chief
Operating Officer  Chase Bales , 51; and Chief Financial Officer
 Damian Riddoch , 37, who died when their twin-engine Cessna
smashed into a wooded area in Tulsa, Oklahoma.  
 Long and  Christer Wagenius  were named to the company’s
board by Chairman  Bengt Andersson , who was the sole remaining
director after the crash, U.S. Highland said.  
 La Lond, 60, is a director at Southbridge Advisory Group, a
Tulsa consulting firm, and Lind, 36, was Mounds, Oklahoma-based
U.S. Highland’s research and development director. Wagenius, 69,
is a partner at a Swedish law firm. Long, 44, also has been a
director of Millennial Research Corp. since 2008.  
 U.S. Highland will issue a statement on the leadership
changes today, Long, who is serving as the company’s spokesman,
said in a telephone interview.  
 A report on the cause of the crash may be available late
next week,  Keith Holloway , a National Transportation Safety
Board spokesman, has said.  
 The men were returning from Detroit when an emergency
landing at Tulsa’s airport was requested. Bales, who shared
ownership of the plane, was in the pilot’s seat during the crash
and routinely flew on business trips, Long said July 13.  
 The executives had been with U.S. Highland, which employs
35 people, since it was created in March 2009. Malmberg founded
the parent company 14 years earlier in his native Sweden.  
 U.S. Highland was unchanged at $1.25 as of 10:52 a.m.
 in over-the-counter  trading .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Theo Keith  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 tkeith6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        