-- U.S. House Committee Said to Consider Reducing Ethanol Subsidy by 20%
-- Mario Parker
-- 2010-07-16T18:53:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/u-s-house-committee-said-to-consider-reducing-ethanol-subsidy-by-20-.html

          
          
             The U.S. House Ways and Means
Committee has proposed reducing the tax credit that helps
support the ethanol industry by 20 percent to cut spending,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  
 Refiners and blenders would receive 36 cents for every
gallon of ethanol blended into gasoline from the 45 cents they
currently pocket, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the proposal hasn’t been made public. The tax credit
expires this year and the committee is proposing to extend it an
additional year.  
 Reducing the credit was a way to compromise with members of
the committee who didn’t want to extend the incentives, the
people said, and it could be attached to a legislative package
for so-called green jobs within the next three weeks. The bill
would also extend the 54-cent tariff slapped on Brazilian
imports for one year.  
 The one-year extension and reduction would be short of the
five years sought in a bill that Senators  Charles Grassley , an
Iowa Republican, and  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat,
introduced in April.  
 Shimkus-Pomeroy Bill  
 Congressmen  John Shimkus , an Illinois Republican, and  Earl Pomeroy , a North Dakota Democrat, introduced companion
legislation in the House in April for the ethanol incentives, a
bill that was endorsed by the Washington-based Renewable Fuels
Association, the industry’s largest trade group.  
 “The RFA continues to support the legislation introduced by
Earl Pomeroy and John Shimkus that extends the current tax
incentives through 2015,”  Matt Hartwig , a spokesman for the
group, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Ethanol industry advocates have pushed to avoid what
happened to biodiesel. Production of biodiesel has ground to a
near-halt since its $1-a-gallon incentive expired at the end of
last year, according to the National Biodiesel Board.  
 Growth Energy, the ethanol lobby that last year asked the
U.S. to raise the allowable limit of the fuel in gasoline,
requested yesterday that the tax credits be redirected to
building out distribution infrastructure, such as pumps,
pipelines and flex-fuel vehicles.  
 Poet LLC, in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, is the largest U.S.
ethanol producer, followed by  Archer Daniels Midland Co.  in
Decatur, Illinois.  Valero Energy Corp. , in San Antonio, is the
third-biggest U.S. ethanol company.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        