-- NCAA Must Face Ticket Lottery Suit, U.S. Appeals Court in Chicago Rules
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-16T19:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/u-s-appeals-court-revives-fans-ncaa-championship-ticket-lottery-case.html

          
          
             The National Collegiate Athletic
Association must face a lawsuit by consumers claiming the
organization unlawfully profited from a lottery for tickets to
sports tournaments.  
 A U.S. appeals court in Chicago today reversed a federal
judge’s 2009 dismissal of the case, ruling that the consumers --
residents of New York, Arizona and Oregon -- adequately alleged
that the lottery may violate Indiana law.  
 The Indianapolis-based NCAA sells tickets for its top-rank
Division I college basketball and hockey championships by
accepting applications for more tickets than are actually
available. The association keeps a $6 to $10 “handling” fee for
each entry, even if the applicant doesn’t get a ticket, the
appeals court said.  
 “Win or lose, the service fee was forfeited by all
entrants and retained by the NCAA,” the court said in a 2-1
decision. The judges sent the case back to the lower court for
further proceedings.  
 Keeping the money, and awarding some applicants a thing of
greater value than its price -- the ticket -- may violate
Indiana’s law barring any entity other than the state from
running a lottery, the judges said.  
 “The NCAA is disappointed by and disagrees with the
court’s decision, and we are considering our options,”
spokesman  Erik Christianson  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 ‘Fair and Legal’  
 “The NCAA provides an appropriate, fair and legal
mechanism to distribute tickets that gives fans the opportunity
to participate in championship events,” he said.  
 The consumers are seeking class-action status, to sue on
behalf of anyone who has paid the fee since May 1998. They are
demanding compensatory and punitive damages.  
 “The court recognized that customers ordering on the NCAA
website were not knowingly gambling,” said plaintiffs’ attorney
Rob Carey, a Phoenix-based partner at Seattle’s Hagens Berman
Sobol Shapiro LLP, via e-mail.  
 “The entire process would have been legal if the NCAA would
have refunded the so-called handling fee” to applicants who
were rejected, he said. The NCAA no longer charges a fee to
unsuccessful applicants, Carey said.  
 The lawsuit, initially filed in federal court in Los
Angeles in May 2008, was transferred to Indianapolis in December
of that year.  
 Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc., originally named as a
defendant in the case, settled in 2009, agreeing to refund
handling fees to unsuccessful applicants for preliminary rounds
of that year’s NCAA basketball tournament. Ticketmaster is now
part of Live Nation Entertainment Inc.  
 In dismissing the case, U.S. District Judge  William T. Lawrence  in Indianapolis last year said consumers were aware of
the “essential features” of the system and applied willingly
for the tickets, and that they had had not been deceived.  
 Dissenting from today’s opinion, U.S. Circuit Judge  Richard Cudahy  said the plaintiffs participated, “knowing that a ‘blind
lottery’ was possible.” He also said the state’s lottery law
didn’t apply to sales pursuant to a valid contract.  
 The case is George v. National Collegiate Athletic
Association, 09-3667, 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        