-- Stocks Tumble as Banks, GE Trail Revenue Estimates
-- Elizabeth Stanton
-- 2010-07-16T20:08:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/u-s-stock-futures-advance-after-goldman-sachs-settles-subprime-lawsuit.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks slid, wiping out a
weekly advance, as revenue at Bank of America Corp., Citigroup
Inc. and General Electric Co. missed analyst estimates and a
gauge of consumer confidence slid to the lowest in a year.  
 Bank of America tumbled 9.2 percent, the most since June
2009, while Citigroup retreated 6.3 percent and GE lost 4.6
percent. Google Inc. sank 7 percent after earnings trailed the
 average analyst estimate  following a surge in spending. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., the most profitable firm in Wall Street
history, rallied 0.7 percent after agreeing to pay $550 million
and change its business practices to settle federal government
claims it misled investors.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 2.9 percent to
1,064.88 at 4 p.m. in New York, the biggest drop this month. It
fell 1.2 percent this week, erasing its gain after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment fell
more than economists estimated. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
lost 261.41 points, or 2.5 percent, to 10,097.90 today.  
 “Companies have been exceeding or meeting earnings
expectations on cost cuts, not on demand for their products and
services,” said  Terry Morris , who manages $2 billion at
National Penn Investors Trust Co. in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania.
“I think the market is pricing in more than we’re going to
see” in the way of revenue growth.  
 Beating Estimates  
 The S&P 500 climbed 7.2 percent from July 2 through
yesterday amid optimism that corporate earnings would signal the
economic recovery is sustainable. S&P 500 companies are
projected to increase profits by 34 percent in 2010 and 18
percent in 2011, the fastest two-year gain since 1995, according
to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Of the 23 companies
in the S&P 500 that reported since July 12, all but three have
topped forecasts for earnings-per-share, Bloomberg data show.  
 Revenue for the group that has reported so far has
increased 2.6 percent, with 17 of 23 companies beating analyst
estimates, according to the data.  
 Bank of America, the largest U.S. bank by assets, slid 9.2
percent to $13.98 to lead  financial companies  to the biggest
decline among 10 industry groups in the S&P 500. Citigroup, the
third-biggest, retreated 6.3 percent to $3.90. GE, the world’s
largest maker of jet engines and power-plant turbines, fell 4.6
percent to $14.55. The three companies beat analyst estimates
for per-share earnings while missing on sales.  
 “Revenue is more of a challenge when the economy’s not
growing very fast,” said  Robert Lutts , president of Cabot Money
Management in Salem, Massachusetts, which oversees $500 million.
“I’m more impressed that there’s been no real extreme negative
future guidance.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Stanton  in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     General Electric Co. chief executive officer Jeffrey Immelt. Photographer: Aaron M. Sprecher/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks slid, wiping out a weekly advance, as revenue at Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and General Electric Co. missed analyst estimates and a gauge of consumer confidence slid to the lowest in a year. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Seery of Olympus Futures and John O'Donoghue, head of equities at Cowen & Co., talk about the outlook for the U.S. stock market.
     Seery and O'Donoghue talk with Carol Massar, Matt Miller, Adam Johnson and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart". (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Moynihan, chief executive officer of Bank of America Corp., discusses the company's second-quarter profit reported today. 
     The largest U.S. lender said net income dropped to $3.2 billion, or 28 cents a share before preferred dividends, from $3.22 billion, or 33 cents, in the same period a year earlier. Moynihan, speaking from Charlotte, North Carolina, talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt talks about Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s $550 million settlement with U.S. regulators to settle an SEC lawsuit that alleged the bank misled investors in collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.
     Levitt talks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
