-- U.S. Stocks Will Advance This Month Before New Decline: Technical Analysis
-- Anna Kitanaka
-- 2010-07-16T08:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/u-s-stocks-will-advance-this-month-before-new-decline-technical-analysis.html

          
          
             The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
Dow Jones Industrial Average will advance this month before
declining again in August, according to an analysis of chart
patterns by DMG & Partners Securities Pte.  
 The S&P 500 will likely rise 3.1 percent to its 100-day
moving average of 1,130.35 from yesterday’s close of 1,096.48,
said  James Lim , an analyst with DMG & Partners. The Dow Jones
will climb 5.4 percent to 10,920.27, a level last reached May 13,
from the last close of 10,359.31, according to the analyst.  
 “We have room to appreciate,” Singapore-based Lim said in
a telephone interview today. “The indexes were oversold and
they’re on the verge of rebounding. For the short term until
August, the various markets will be bullish.”  
 The S&P 500 has  fallen  1.7 percent this year as U.S. data
on home sales, manufacturing and unemployment, Europe’s debt
crisis and slowing economic growth in China hurt sentiment. The
Dow Jones Industrial Average has lost 0.7 percent this year.  
 Both gauges are on the upward step called Wave B in the
Elliott Wave pattern, Lim said. The S&P 500’s moving-average
convergence/divergence, or  MACD momentum  indicator, and the Dow
Jones’ Bollinger bands also show a bullish trend, he said.  
 The Elliott Wave is based on a theory developed by the
accountant Ralph Nelson Elliott during the Great Depression and
says that prices move in a pattern of five steps followed by
three steps. The so-called three-wave corrective phase is down-
up-down, and Wave B corresponds to the upward move. Bollinger
bands are based on price variations to designate possible
support and resistance levels.  
 Technical analysts observe price charts to forecast
resistance levels, or ceilings restricting further price
increases, and support levels, or floors limiting declines. They
use trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        