-- Ukraine Drops First Eurobond Sale Since 2007 After Investors Seek 9% Yield
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-16T09:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/ukraine-abandons-first-eurobond-sale-since-2007-after-arranging-imf-loan.html

          
          
             Ukraine abandoned plans to sell its
first Eurobond since 2007 as investors demanded higher yields
than the government was willing to pay after it struck a second
loan agreement with the International Monetary Fund.  
 Investors sought yields of more than 9 percent, Deputy
Prime Minister  Serhiy Tigipko  said in an interview in the
Georgian capital Tbilisi today. “We don’t want money at that
price,” he said. “Our position isn’t so difficult that we need
to borrow at these interest rates.”  
 The government of Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  spent last
week on a roadshow trying to drum up interest for its planned $2
billion Eurobond, which had been intended to have a maturity of
eight to 10 years. Ukraine agreed to a $14.9 billion loan with
the IMF on July 3, struck an accord with Russia to subsidize its
gas payments, and last month received a $2 billion loan from
Russia’s  VTB Bank , reducing the government’s borrowing needs.  
 The administration “decided not to proceed with a new
transaction at this time, given other immediate sources of
financing and its liquidity position,” the Kiev-based ministry
said in a  press release  late yesterday. It will consider
international capital market financing on an “ongoing basis.”  
 Olena Bilan , chief economist at Kiev-based Dragon Capital,
said the government has enough resources to cover the budget
deficit “but they will have to borrow more by the end of the
year.”  Tigipko said today the government may turn to
international capital markets later this year.  
 Fair Yield  
 The Eurobond, had it gone to market, would have had a fair
yield of in the range of 8.125 percent to 8.375 percent,
according to Renaissance Capital. The sale was being managed by
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Morgan Stanley  and VTB Capital.  
 The government, which started its road show for the
Eurobond in Munich on July 6, would consider an interest rate of
8.5 percent too high, Finance Minister  Fedir Yaroshenko  told
reporters on July 7.  
 “Investors’ thinking might have been: you’re printing a
jumbo bond of $2 billion, you should give us a significant
premium,” said  Nikolai Podguzov , a fixed-income analyst at
Renaissance Capital in Moscow. Ukraine’s government “could
probably borrow $1 billion at a better price.”  
 Lebanon, rated B by Standard & Poor’s, the same as Ukraine
and five levels below investment grade, sold $1.2 billion of 10-
year bonds at a yield of 6.375 percent in March. The notes
yielded 6.339 percent today. Senegal, rated B+ at S&P, one notch
above Ukraine, sold $200 million of five-year bonds in December
with an 8.75 percent coupon. The notes yielded 9.1 percent
today, Bloomberg data show.  
 ‘On the Curve’  
 Ukraine’s 6.58 percent government bonds maturing in 2016
rose to 94.5 cents on the dollar as of 12:45 p.m. in Kiev,
compared with 94 cents yesterday, Bloomberg data show. The yield
fell to 7.66 percent from 7.80 percent yesterday. Credit default
swaps on the country’s five-year debt fell eight basis points
today to 573, according to London-based data provider CMA
DataVision.  
 “The market perception for the five-year bond would have
been around 8.5 percent and for the 10-year somewhere around 9
percent, a discount to the current bonds,” said  Ian McCall , a
director at Argo Capital Management in London, managing $500
million of emerging market debt. “Ukraine thought it wanted to
borrow right on the curve -- this is just not going to happen
with any borrower in the current environment.”  
 Ukraine is paying interest of 6.7 percent on a $2 billion
loan from Russia’s VTB Bank, Yaroshenko said on July 7.  
 Window Shutting  
 Ukraine’s government “will probably seek a bilateral loan
and funds from international financial institutions” and may
return to international markets later this year to try to sell
Eurobonds at a lower yield, Bilan said.  
 “The market is getting less liquid by the day, the window
is shutting so if they decide to revisit this we are talking
about late August or September at the earliest,” said McCall.
“But it is going to be challenging for them to issue something
unless they are willing to pay up.”  
 Fitch Ratings on July 6 raised Ukraine’s credit grade one
level to B, with a stable outlook, citing the IMF agreement and
better prospects for financial stability.  
 The government yesterday said it has received applications
for about $2.2 billion in hryvnia-denominated bonds to cover its
debt to exporters stemming from unpaid value-added tax refunds.
Those bonds will also trade on the secondary market, the
government has said.  
 The VAT bond agreement was a condition for Ukraine to be
able to proceed with its IMF loan.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kateryna Choursina  in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ukrainian Prime Minister Mykola Azarov. Photographer: Alexey Druzhinin/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
