-- Hungarian Battle for Central Bank Independence Means Policy Split to 2013
-- Balazs Penz
-- 2010-07-16T06:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/hungarian-battle-for-central-bank-independence-means-policy-split-to-2013.html

          
          
             Hungarian central bank President
 Andras Simor  will survive government attempts to oust him,
including a drive to cut his salary by 75 percent, according to
a survey of analysts and investors.  
 Fourteen of 21 people who follow the Hungarian market told
Bloomberg News they expect Simor, 56, to complete his term,
prolonging a split with Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  until 2013.
Orban’s government, which this week rejected a European Central
Bank request to drop the attack on Simor’s pay, has criticized
the Hungarian bank for being slow to cut interest rates and
failing to stop the spread of foreign-currency loans.  
 The battle has raised investor concern that Orban is trying
to undermine central bank independence after winning more than
two-thirds of the seats in parliament in April. The government
is struggling to restore confidence after ruling party officials
last month raised the specter of a Greek-like crisis.  
 “Markets are rushing to his defense, especially because
this can be interpreted as the government pushing through its
will very aggressively,”  Gyorgy Barta , an economist at the
Budapest unit of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, said of Simor. “Markets
have noticed this new style and are watching closely.”  
 The forint has lost 5.7 percent against the euro in the
past three months, the worst performance among the more than 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Hungary has failed to raise the
planned amount at three debt auctions since Orban took over.  
 Simor Policies  
 Under Simor, the central bank cut its benchmark rate by
6.25 percentage points to 5.25 percent from Nov. 24, 2008,
through April. Before the easing cycle, the bank raised rates
four times in seven months, including a 3 percentage point
increase in October 2008 to stem a selloff in Hungarian assets.  
 “He’s clearly liked by markets because of the way he
handled the central bank through the crisis,” said  Peter Attard Montalto , an analyst at Nomura International Plc in London.
“It’d be a big loss to have him go and a severe dent on the
independence of the central bank.”  
 Members of the ruling Fidesz party have called on all of
the central bank’s policy makers to quit. They criticized the
bank for keeping interest rates too high, too long and for not
restricting access to foreign-currency loans that left thousands
of people at risk of losing their homes after the forint fell as
much as 34 percent against the Swiss franc. Simor was singled
out for having held investments in Cyprus.  
 Tensions flared when the government proposed cutting
Simor’s salary.  
 “Political propositions attacking” the central bank’s
independence “are dangerous and prone to fail,” Simor said June
21 in Budapest. “Every political attack has a price and the
citizens are the ones who have to pick up the tab.”  
 ‘Mutual Responsibility’  
 According to the cabinet, the wage cut is part of a wider
push to limit executive pay at government agencies and state-
owned companies at a time when Hungary is under pressure to
control its  budget deficit .  
 The government plans to cap all state salaries at 10 times
the average gross wage, or 24 million forint ($107,920). Simor’s
salary is $458,000, more than twice as much as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  
 “In the spirit of mutual responsibility and real burden
sharing, nobody can exclude themselves from addressing the
economic difficulties caused by the previous government,” Orban
spokesman  Peter Szijjarto  said July 14 in defending the salary
plan, according to the Hungarian news website Portfolio.hu.  
 Simor headed the Hungarian unit of Deloitte & Touche LLP
before he became central bank president in 2007. Prior to that
he was head of the Budapest Stock Exchange and worked at
Creditanstalt AG, now part of Unicredit AG.  
 IMF Review  
 Investors are waiting for the  International Monetary Fund 
to approve Orban’s economic program as an IMF delegation reviews
the country’s progress on a 2008 bailout package for the first
time since the new government took power.  
 Simor urged the government on June 21 to reveal details of
its fiscal plan to improve Hungary’s risk assessment. Policy
makers refrained from  cutting interest rates  last month partly
on concern the cabinet will loosen budget controls, he said.  
 Orban, 47, has no legal means to remove Simor without
changing the Constitution, which his parliamentary majority
would allow.  
 “This is going to be extended into other fronts,” said
 Luis Costa , an emerging-market debt strategist at Citigroup Inc.
in London. “The big question is, how comfortable or
uncomfortable Mr. Simor is.”  
 The next battle may be over the composition of the rate-
setting Monetary Council, Costa said. The terms of four of the
seven policy makers will expire March 1.  
 The cabinet nominates council members, who are then vetted
by lawmakers and approved by the president.  
 “After Fidesz came into power, investors knew some kind of
reshuffle would be happening in most of the places, but this has
been faster than expected,” said  Kubilay Ozturk  a London-based
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Simor is the most important that
markets are watching.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Andras Simor, president of the Central Bank of Hungary, poses during the Central and Eastern European Forum (CEE) in Vienna on Jan. 16, 2008. Photographer: Vladimir Weiss/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Viktor Orban, gives a press conference in Budapest, on April 12, 2010. Photographer:Attila Kisbenedek/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
