-- UniCredit, Nationwide Capital Notes Flag Demand for Riskier Debt in Europe
-- Sonja Cheung
-- 2010-07-16T10:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/unicredit-nationwide-capital-notes-flag-demand-for-riskier-debt-in-europe.html

          
          
             UniCredit SpA , Italy’s biggest bank,
and Nationwide Building Society raised 1.25 billion euros ($1.6
billion) from junior notes this week, as demand for riskier
assets drove yield spreads on the debt to a two-month low.  
 UniCredit issued 500 million euros of so-called Tier 1
notes, while Nationwide raised 750 million euros from lower-Tier
2 bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Financial
firms led issuance in Europe, accounting for 3 billion euros of
the week’s 5.6 billion euros of sales.  
 The yield premium on Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities that
banks issue as regulatory capital fell 17 basis points this week
to 481 basis points over government debt, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. Banks are tapping demand buoyed by
robust company earnings, signs that European lenders will pass
stress tests and successful bond sales from nations including
Spain, Portugal and Greece.  
 “The issuance of subordinated debt from Nationwide and
UniCredit is a positive sign, testing demand for the riskier
assets,” said  Benjamin Bennett , who helps manage the equivalent
of $125 billion of corporate bonds as credit strategist at Legal
& General Investment Management in London. “The mood is upbeat
so it seems a good time for companies to make hay ahead of the
summer slowdown.”  
 The yield on investment-grade company debt relative to
government securities narrowed 4 basis points this week to 193
basis points, the tightest gap since May 20, Merrill Lynch index
data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Spreads Shrink  
 Spreads shrank as companies including JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
U.K. homebuilder Barratt Developments Plc and General Electric
Co. posted earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. Meantime,
stress tests of Europe’s biggest banks are likely to show
favorable results for most lenders, analysts at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. wrote in a note published today.  
 UniCredit’s undated Tier 1 notes were priced to yield 9.375
percent. If Milan-based  UniCredit  chooses not to redeem the
securities after 10 years it must pay an increased interest rate
known as a step-up, according to the sale prospectus.  
 Nationwide in Swindon, England, priced its lower Tier 2
notes to yield 422 basis points over government bonds, or 6.84
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bonds were trading
8 basis points tighter at a spread of 414, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices on Bloomberg show.  
 Credit Agricole SA, France’s largest bank by branches,
issued 1 billion euros of five-year senior bonds at a spread of
148 basis points, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Summer Lull  
 Total corporate bond sales dropped to a quarter of last
week’s 22 billion euros amid the start of Europe’s summer
vacation season and as companies reported earnings, according to
 Rajeev Shah , a credit strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London.  
 “European corporate issuance is running at a normal run
rate similar to between 2006 and 2008,” Shah said. “It’s still
a favorable environment for companies to issue, as the absolute
cost of funding is close to historic levels. Lower yields
reflect the lack of refinancing risk.”  
 Thames Water Utilities Ltd., London’s water supplier, sold
550 million pounds ($843 million) of so-called Class B bonds due
2025, callable after seven years. The subordinated notes, sold
through Thames Water Utilities Cayman Finance Ltd., were priced
to yield 285 basis points more than U.K. government debt,
Bloomberg data show.  
 Great Rolling Stock Co., a U.K. railway company, issued 300
million pounds of 10-year bonds at a yield of 295 points more
than gilts, and 500 million pounds of 25-year amortizing notes
with an average life of 14 years at a spread of 310 basis
points.  
 Care U.K. Plc , a nursing home operator, raised 250 million
pounds from the sale of high-yield notes due in seven years. The
securities, yielding 9.75 percent, are callable after four years
were issued through Care U.K. Health & Social Care Ltd.  
 “Companies are taking the opportunity to raise debt now in
case the market is hit by negative shocks come September when
the market will be looking to reopen after the summer,” said
 Simon Ballard , senior credit strategist at RBC Capital Markets
in London.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        