-- Municipal Bond Defaults Continue at Triple the Typical Rate, Lehmann Says
-- Darrell Preston
-- 2010-07-16T19:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/municipal-bond-defaults-continue-at-triple-the-typical-rate-lehmann-says.html

          
          
             Municipal borrowers defaulted at
three times the typical rate even as the pace fell from records
the past two years when Jefferson County, Alabama, and Lehman
Brothers Holding Inc.’s failure sustained historic levels.  
 Thirty-five municipal bond issues totaling $1.5 billion
defaulted in the first six months of 2010, the Miami Lakes,
Florida-based Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter reported in
its July edition. That annualized $3 billion pace is triple the
rate of $1 billion or less a year going back to 1983,  Richard Lehmann , publisher of the newsletter, said in a phone interview
today.  
 “I wouldn’t start celebrating just yet,” said Lehmann.
“I wouldn’t think things are getting better. A lot of issuers
are on the brink.”  
 At least 60 so-called dirt districts in Florida with about
$1 billion of debt that may default have managed to stay afloat
because of reserve funds, Lehmann said. The “dirt bonds”
finance infrastructure for housing developments, and districts
in California, Arizona and Nevada continue to struggle with
lower revenue and costs they can’t control, he said.  
 New defaults this year include Crawfordsville,  Indiana ,
which missed a July 1 payment on a $16.6 million debt issue sold
to build a high-speed Internet system and the Carter Plantation
Community Development District in Louisiana, which missed a May
1 payment on a $23.5 million bond issue for a golf resort,
according to the newsletter.  
 Last year, 194 municipal borrowers defaulted on $6.9
billion of bonds, compared with 162 issues totaling $8.2 billion
in 2008.  
 Jefferson County  
 High levels of defaults in those years were led by
Jefferson County, which is trying to restructure more than $3
billion of sewer debt after almost being bankrupted by it during
the credit crisis, and Main Street Natural Gas Inc. in Georgia,
which failed to pay after Lehman Brothers, which backed its
bonds, sought bankruptcy protection, Lehmann said.  
 The cost of insuring against default on July 15 fell to
$222,890, the  annual sum of buying protection on $10 million of
municipal bonds for five years, from $266,500 on June 30, the
highest level since March 2009, according to an index of swaps
for 50 local government issuers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        