-- Venezuela Rejects Colombian Charge of Giving Rebels Refuge, Recalls Envoy
-- Helen Murphy
-- 2010-07-16T19:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/venezuela-rejects-colombian-charge-of-giving-rebels-refuge-recalls-envoy.html

          
          
             Venezuela rejected accusations that
it’s safeguarding leaders of Colombia’s biggest rebel group and
will recall its ambassador to Bogota for consultations.  
 Venezuela would expel any members of the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia discovered in the country, the Foreign
Ministry said today in an  e-mailed statement . The charges are
another of Colombian President  Alvaro Uribe ’s attempts to
“destroy” relations between the countries, the statement said.  
 “Venezuela rejects this new attack by outgoing President
Uribe in his desire to destroy relations, which he has attempted
to do with a sick obsession,” the ministry said.  
 Foreign Minister  Nicolas Maduro  said Venezuela will recall
its ambassador from Colombia for consultations after Colombian
Defense Minister  Gabriel Silva  provided reporters yesterday with
what he said was photographic evidence that key leaders of the
FARC, as the rebel group is known, are living freely in
Venezuela. President  Hugo Chavez  has repeatedly sparred with
Uribe over claims he provides assistance to the FARC, leading to
a freeze in relations and a plunge in trade.  
 Among the rebel leaders living in Venezuela are those known
by their aliases as Ivan Marquez, Rodrigo Granda, Timochenko,
Grannobles and Pablito, Uribe’s office said in a statement
yesterday. Several leaders from the smaller National Liberation
Army are also in Venezuela, it said.  
 The peso fell 0.4 percent, its biggest drop in more than a
week, to 1,877.85 per dollar at 3:30 p.m. in New York.  
 Satellite Images  
 Silva yesterday showed some members of the media satellite
images of FARC camps, Caracol Radio said. Ivan Marquez, part of
the FARC’s seven-man high command, appeared in a photograph
beside two French poodles, Caracol said.  
 Bloomberg News wasn’t permitted access to the news
conference.  
 Colombia may take its complaint about the guerrilla
presence in Venezuela to “international bodies,” Uribe’s
office said in a statement today.  
 “For six years the Colombian government held a patient
dialogue with the Venezuelan government, and on various
occasions gave information about the location of terrorists in
that territory,” the statement said. “It was all unfruitful.”  
 Venezuela called Silva’s presentation yesterday a
“pathetic media spectacle.”  
 New President  
 Chavez said today that the accusations are an attempt by
Uribe’s government to strain ties before President-elect  Juan Manuel Santos  takes office Aug. 7. Venezuela will continue to
work to improve relations with Santos as long as there is mutual
respect, he said on state television.  
 “I know very well what has caused the desperation of Uribe
-- he’s leaving,” Chavez said. “Hopefully the new president,
despite his past, can honor his word.”  
 The accusations will likely escalate tensions and amount to
a “poisoning of the well” after Santos had sent reconciliatory
signs to Chavez by inviting him to his inauguration next month,
 Adam Isacson , senior associate at the Washington Office on Latin
America, said in a phone interview.  
 Rebel Ties  
 Concern about the extent of the rebels’ involvement with
Chavez, a self-described revolutionary socialist long suspected
by Colombia of supporting the FARC, was heightened after March
2008 when Colombia launched an air-raid into Ecuador, killing
the group’s second in command,  Raul Reyes .  
 Colombia’s military, led by Santos at that time, found a
computer that it said contained correspondence between the
guerrillas and Chavez’s government.  
 Chavez ordered troops to Venezuela’s border with Colombia
in response to the attack on his ally, Ecuador. He then cut
trade ties after Uribe agreed last year to expand U.S. access to
seven military bases. Chavez has denied aiding the rebels.  
 Exports to Venezuela plunged 69 percent in May compared
with the same period a year ago. Before relations soured,
Venezuela was Colombia’s biggest export market after the U.S.  
 The FARC, which is classified as a terrorist organization
by the U.S. and the European Union, was founded in 1964 as a
rural, peasant, Marxist insurgency.  
 The group, which a decade ago numbered about 18,000, has
been whittled down to half that since 2002, when Uribe ordered
an offensive on the rebels.  
 The FARC traffics in cocaine for the bulk of its revenue,
according to the U.S., which has sent Colombia $7 billion in the
past 10 years for its anti-insurgency campaign. More than 80
percent of the cocaine sold in the U.S. comes from Colombia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net 
 Helen Murphy  in Bogota at 
 Hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        