-- Waiter-in-Chief Prepares Last Drink for Argentina's Ministers
-- Eliana Raszewski
-- 2010-07-16T03:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/waiter-in-chief-to-peron-prepares-last-drink-for-boudou-as-argentina-cries.html

          
          
             The man known as Miguelito has
provided soda and coffee to 41 Argentine  economy ministers  since
1965. He waited on three-time President  Juan Peron  and  Domingo Cavallo , who as minister oversaw a 2001 default on $95 billion
in bonds, the biggest ever.  
 The 64-year-old Miguel Wolbann is weighing retirement just
as his country tries to put its latest debt crisis behind it.  
 “I’ve met so many economy ministers, it’s hard to remember
them all,” the blue-suited Miguelito said in a June 4
interview. His long tenure at the ministry’s fifth-floor kitchen
results from being “discreet,” he said.  
 Economy ministers tend to have much shorter careers in
Argentina. The country’s history of financial turmoil and
suspicions of manipulation of official statistics are signs of
institutional weakness that concern investors, said  Sebastian Briozzo , an analyst at Standard & Poor’s in Buenos Aires.  
 “This is a problem in Argentina going back for several
governments -- they change policies along with the ministers,”
said  Pablo Cisilino , an Argentine who helps manage $14 billion
in emerging market debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners in
New York. “In countries such as Mexico, Brazil and Chile they
change governments and ministers but there are certain economic
policies that are respected and maintained and that’s why the
risk perception is different.”  
 45 Years  
 Miguelito says one of his most memorable experiences came
amid a 1976 military coup, when soldiers blocked him from
entering the ministry. The junta began a seven-year fight
against guerillas that killed as many as 30,000 and undertook a
failed invasion of the U.K.-controlled Falkland Islands.  
 In 1985, two years after the return of democracy, President
 Raul Alfonsin  created a new currency, the austral, in a bid to
contain accelerating  inflation .  
 Four years later Miguelito told Economy Minister  Jesus Rodriguez  how price increases heading toward 5,000 percent were
eating into the currency’s purchasing power. He recalled the day
Rodriguez gave him 50 australes to buy coffee. When Rodriguez
gave him the same amount a few days later, he explained that it
wasn’t enough.  
 “The minister stared at me and said ‘What do you mean,
are prices rising? What is the economy minister doing?’”
Miguelito said.  
 Rodriguez, 55, remembers Miguelito as a “polite,
attentive” employee.  
 “They were unhappy times, but the work had to be done,”
Rodriguez said about his two-month tenure in a July 7 telephone
interview in Buenos Aires.  
 Alfonsin stepped down in July 1989, five months before his
term was due to end, as inflation, recession and rising
 unemployment  provoked looting across the country.  
 Brown Paper Bag  
 The austral survived until the early 1990s, when Cavallo
replaced it with a peso that was worth the same as the U.S.
dollar. The fixed rate lasted until early 2002, when a financial
crisis led the government to abandon the peg, leaving the peso
to lose about two-thirds of its value.  
 Since then, Miguelito has witnessed the coming and going of
five ministers, including  Felisa Miceli , who was sacked after
about $60,000 was found in a brown paper bag in her office
bathroom. Two who left were appointed by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner , 57, who took office in December 2007.  
 The first,  Martin Lousteau , stepped down after four months,
following nationwide protests against his plans to increase
agricultural export taxes. His successor,  Carlos Fernandez ,
resigned a year later, after the president’s party lost its
Congressional majority in mid-term elections.  
 Amado Boudou , 47, succeeded Fernandez at the ministry in
2009 and was asked to restructure $18.3 billion in defaulted
bonds from the 2001 crisis.  
 Inflation Doubts  
 Any improvement in the country’s B- credit rating, six
levels below investment grade, depends on Argentina’s ability to
tap international markets after last month’s restructuring of
$12.9 billion of the eligible debt, Briozzo of Standard & Poor’s
said. Argentina’s benchmark 7 percent dollar bonds due in 2015
yield 11.74 percent.  
 The extra yield, or spread, that investors demand to hold
Argentine bonds over U.S. Treasuries is 733 basis points, or
7.33 percentage points. For Brazil and Mexico the spread is 223
and 173 basis points, respectively, according to JPMorgan
indexes.  
 The debt swap results prompted Fitch Ratings to upgrade the
country to a B rating on July 12. Moody’s Investors Service is
considering raising its B3 credit rating on Argentina, analyst
 Gabriel Torres  said in a telephone interview from New York.  
 Doubts about the accuracy of official statistics since
2007, when Fernandez’s husband and predecessor Nestor Kirchner
changed personnel at the National Statistics Institute, known as
Indec, may be an obstacle, he said.  
 ‘High Volatility’  
 “What remains to be resolved is Indec,” Torres said. “We
wonder whether the swap alone is sufficient reason to raise the
rating.”  
 The unpredictability of a country that has restored
government control of state-owned companies, including the
national airline and Buenos Aires water company, which were sold
in the 1990s, also deters investors, Torres said.  
 “Historically, Argentina is a country with high volatility
in its public policies,” Torres said. “In neighboring
countries such as Chile, Uruguay and Brazil you can clearly
foresee where they are heading, but with Argentina it’s much
more difficult.”  
 Pension Fund Takeover  
 In 2008, the government seized about $24 billion in private
pensions, ending a system designed to replace the state-run
retirement program 14 years earlier.  
 Miguelito, who started working at the ministry when he was
19, said he’s concerned he won’t be able to live off his
pension.  
 “I’ll need to keep working,” he said. “I may sell goods
from my house, both for economic reasons and because I would
need to do something to entertain myself.”  
 Miguelito doesn’t display any such worries at work,  Boudou 
said in a June 7 interview. “Miguelito is a character who is
part of the ministry’s history,” said the current economy
minister. “He’s always in a good mood.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Miguel Wolbann, head waiter at Argentina's Economy Ministry. Photographer: Eliana Raszewski/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
