-- Yara Profit Triples on Fertilizer Demand, Exceeds Estimates; Shares Climb
-- Amanda Jordan
-- 2010-07-16T16:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/yara-profit-triples-on-fertilizer-demand-exceeds-estimates-shares-climb.html

          
          
             Yara International ASA , the largest
publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, said second-quarter
profit more than tripled on higher demand and a one-time gain on
a divestment.  
 Net income  rose to 3.72 billion kroner ($600 million) from
1.12 billion kroner a year earlier, the Oslo-based company said
today in a  statement . That beat the 3.61 billion-krone average
estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The shares
climbed to the highest price in almost three months.  
 “Fertilizer margins improved and production ran at close
to optimal capacity utilization,” Chief Executive Officer
 Joergen Ole Haslestad  said in the statement. Earnings also were
helped by a 2.6 billion-krone after-tax gain from selling Yara’s
shares in Brazilian phosphate maker Fosfertil, he said.  
 Yara  rose 5.2 percent to 222.5 kroner in Oslo trading, the
highest closing price since April 23.  
 Yara is seeking acquisitions as an expanding global
population boosts demand for food, fuel and fiber. The company,
which in March failed to buy U.S.-based  Terra Industries Inc. 
after CF Industries Holdings Inc. topped its bid, said today it
will consider acquiring assets around the world.  
 “We are interested and we will look at all assets that come
up for sale,” Haslestad said on a conference call. “Eastern
Europe is one area that we’re definitely watching very
carefully.”  
 Demand Recovery  
 Yara last year scaled back production and shut factories in
Lithuania and Hungary as the global economic slump slashed
demand and banks curbed loans to farmers used to buy fertilizer.
A recovery in consumption and declining stockpiles have since
boosted global nitrogen prices.  
 “European nitrate prices have started substantially higher
than at the beginning of the previous season, supported by low
inventories,” Yara said in the statement. “Fertilizer demand
is backed by strong consumption growth for agricultural products
and concerns that last year’s record yields following favorable
weather may not be repeated.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Amanda Jordan  in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        