-- Yen Approaches 2010 High Versus Dollar on U.S. Slowdown
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-16T11:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/yen-heads-for-weekly-gain-on-u-s-slowdown-kiwi-drops-on-inflation-report.html

          
          
             The yen rose toward its strongest
level this year against the dollar as signs the U.S. economy is
losing momentum added to speculation that the Federal Reserve
will keep interest rates at almost zero this year.  
 Japan’s currency gained versus all of its most-traded
counterparts on demand for safety before a U.S. report forecast
to show consumer prices fell. New Zealand’s dollar slid for the
first time in two weeks versus the greenback after a government
report showed inflation was slower than economists forecast,
easing pressure on the central bank to raise borrowing costs.  
 “There’s still a lot of nervousness in the market, and it
seems the yen can do no wrong in this kind of environment,”
said  Michael Derks , chief strategist in London at FXPro
Financial Services Ltd., a foreign-exchange trader. “The yen is
a Teflon currency. When people are worried about a double-dip
scenario, they buy the yen. When they are worried about European
sovereign debt, they buy the yen.”  
 The yen appreciated 0.3 percent to 87.17 per dollar at 7:06
a.m. in New York, from 87.40 yesterday. It reached 86.97 on July
1, the strongest level since Dec. 2. The yen traded at 113.03
per euro, compared with 113.17. The dollar erased its earlier
gain versus the euro, trading at $1.2964, compared with $1.2950.  
 The  MSCI Asia  Pacific Index of shares fell 1 percent in a
second day of losses.  
 U.S. consumer prices dropped 0.1 percent in June in a third
monthly decrease, according to the median forecast of 75
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The report from the Labor
Department is due at 8:30 a.m. New York time.  
 U.S. Sentiment  
 U.S. consumer sentiment fell to 74 this month from 76 in
June, according to a separate Bloomberg News survey of
economists before today’s release of the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary  index .  
 The dollar has lost 2.6 percent against the euro this week
and fallen 1.6 percent versus the yen. The euro has appreciated
1 percent versus Japan’s currency.  
 Traders cut bets to 14 percent that the Fed will increase
its  benchmark rate  by its December meeting, down from 27 percent
odds a month earlier, according to CME Group Inc. futures.  
 “The poor economic data has helped weaken expectations for
any increases in U.S. interest rates,” said  Yuichiro Harada ,
senior vice president of the foreign-exchange division in Tokyo
at Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-largest publicly
traded bank in terms of assets. “The market is gradually
leaning toward a ‘sell the dollar’ mode.”  
 Yield Spread  
 The yen also rose against the dollar as the extra yield
investors demand to hold Treasuries over Japanese debt shrank.
The difference between two-year yields was 0.45 percentage
point, compared with this year’s low of 0.44 percentage point,
set on June 29.  
 “A narrowing in yield spreads between Japan and the U.S.
notes also creates the basis for yen appreciation,” said
 Masaaki Kanno , chief economist in Tokyo at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and a former official at the Bank of Japan.  
 New Zealand’s dollar dropped 1.7 percent to 71.73 U.S.
cents and lost 1.9 percent to 62.52 yen on slower inflation.  
 Consumer prices  rose 0.3 percent last quarter, less than
the 0.4 percent gain forecast by economists.  
 The Reserve Bank of New Zealand raised the official cash
rate to 2.75 percent on June 10 in the first increase in three
years. Traders are betting policy makers will boost the
benchmark by 1.24 percentage points over the next 12 months,
after wagering on a 1.30 percentage point advance at the start
of the week, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  index .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 yseki5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond president Jeffrey Lacker. Photographer: Chris Keane/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Barton about the outlook for the global economy and financial markets.
     Kowalczyk, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses Chinese government economic policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
