-- Zayat Stables Emerges From Bankruptcy With a Promise to Pay 100 Percent
-- Nancy Kercheval
-- 2010-07-16T04:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/zayat-stables-exits-bankruptcy-with-undertaking-to-repay-debts-in-full.html

          
          
             Zayat Stables LLC, the third-highest
earner in North American thoroughbred horse racing last year,
will repay creditors in full after emerging from bankruptcy.  
 The U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey
yesterday approved the company’s reorganization when creditors
including  Fifth Third Bancorp . voted in favor of the plan.  
 Zayat Stables sought protection from creditors in February
after Fifth Third said it defaulted on a $34.2 million loan.
Under the reorganization, Fifth Third will be paid by 2014 and
unsecured creditors will get their money back over two years
without interest.  
 “While Chapter 11 was a necessary step to take, Zayat
Stables has emerged stronger and we are excited about building
on our many recent successes in the racing industry,” stables
owner  Ahmed Zayat  said in a statement.  
 Kentucky-based Keeneland Association Inc., which holds the
world’s biggest thoroughbred auction, is owed $2.4 million,
while $1.2 million will be paid to other creditors.  
 “Accomplishing a successful reorganization with unanimous
creditor approval in less than seven months is remarkable in a
case this size,” Zayat’s counsel  Joseph Vann  said in a
statement.  
 Fifth Third spokeswoman  Debra Decourcy  didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  
 Debt, Assets  
 The Stables , which said it had as much as $50 million in
debt and the same amount in assets when it entered bankruptcy,
earned $6.3 million from 113 wins in 573 starts last year.  
 The Hackensack, New Jersey-based company, formed in 2005,
has 203 horses valued at $37 million. Zayat had revenue of $21
million in 2009 and the owner said in court papers he has
invested $40 million in the company.  
 Zayat’s Pioneerof the Nile was second behind Mine That Bird
in the 2009 Kentucky Derby, the first leg of the Triple Crown.  
 Eskendereya, another Zayat horse, was the early favorite in
the 2010 Derby before being retired with a leg injury.
California vintner  Jess Jackson , owner of two-time Horse of the
Year Curlin and reigning Horse of the Year Rachel Alexandra,
purchased an interest in Eskendereya.  
 Ahmed Zayat made his money by purchasing Al-Ahram Beverages
Co. from the Egyptian government in 1997 and selling the brewer
to  Heinekin NV  for $287 million five years later.  
 His stables was third in earnings last year behind Darley
Stables and Godolphin Stables.  
 The case is Zayat Stables LLC 10-10202, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nancy Kercheval  in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        