-- Zijin Says Three Managers Detained by Police for Fish Poisoning Acid Spill
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-16T03:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-16/zijin-mining-says-three-managers-arrested-after-acid-leak-at-copper-plant.html

          
          
             Zijin Mining Group Co. , China’s
largest gold producer, said three managers were detained for an
acid leak that poisoned tons of fish, sending its shares to the
lowest in almost 18 months.  
 The police took away the Zijinshan copper plant’s manager,
deputy manager and the head of environment, company secretary
 Zheng Yuqiang  said by phone today. The Fujian-based company is
cooperating with the investigation, he said.  
 Zijin illegally channeled waste water to the Ting River,
poisoning 1,890 metric tons of fish at a waterway near Shanghang
county where about half a million people live, the government
said last night. Zijin, which waited nine days to reveal the
spill, is being probed over its disclosure of the incident by
the China Securities Regulatory Commission.  
 “The government wants to use Zijin as an example to show
its emphasis on environmental protection,” said  Owen Liang , a
Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. “It
surprised us that the police acted so quickly.”  
 Zijin fell as much as 8 percent to 5.08 yuan, the lowest
level since January 23, 2009, and traded down 6.5 percent to
5.16 yuan at 11:10 a.m. in  Shanghai trading . The stock dropped
4.6 percent to HK$4.60 at the same time.  
 Management Culpability  
 The Chinese government may make an example of Zijin as it
seeks to highlight a more serious stance toward environmental
issues, Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch said July 12.  
 The government will “strictly pursue the party
responsible” for the leak, the Shanghang county said in a
statement last night. The probe will decide on management
culpability, a penalty in line with damages, and may also
determine if what happened is a criminal offence, it said.  
 Heavy rain broke the plastic leakage-proof barrier in a
waste pit, and  water  containing acid copper seeped into the Ting
River via an illegally-built drainage, the government said.  
 Zijin failed to take corrective measures since September
when the Fujian government found its waste discharge into the
river contained acid copper exceeding a safety standard, the
release said.  
 Local environmental agencies asked Zijin to conduct a
“complete overhaul” of all existing mine and smelting plants
to prevent further leakage and reevaluate compliances, the
county government said.  
 Water Plant  
 Zijin, which initially blamed heavy rains for the spill,
will invest 100 million yuan ($15 million) in a water plant the
government is building near its mine, Zheng said. That’s on top
of the 200 million yuan it plans to spend on environmental and
risk measures within a year as part of its restructuring plan
after the incident.  
 The detained managers are Lin Wenxian, head of the plant,
deputy head Wang Yong, and Liu Shengyuan, environmental head,
the county government said.  
 Chen Liyang, deputy director of Shanghang Environmental
Protection Bureau, was not immediately available for comment.
Zhang Yuelong, head of communications at the county, was at a
meeting and couldn’t immediately comment.  
 Chen Junan, head of environmental protection bureau at the
county, resigned,  Xinhua News Agency  said today. Huang Zhonghua,
head of the economic and trade bureau, was also suspended from
his duties, the agency said.  
 Copper production at Zijinshan mine accounts for about 15
percent of Zijin’s annual output, according to Guotai Junan
Securities Co. The plant produces 12,800 metric tons of copper a
year, and will only reopen after checks by authorities.  
 About 1.89 million kilograms of fish in the Mianhuatan
reservoir were found dead or poisoned, Xinhua News Agency said
July 12.  
 -- Xiao Yu , with assistance from  Huang Zhe . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,
 Indranil Ghosh .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Xiao Yu  in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        