-- Putin Approves Gas Supply Cut Through Ukraine
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2009-01-05T19:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-01-05/putin-approves-gas-supply-cut-through-ukraine-update1-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom,  Russia ’s gas exporter,
will reduce supplies of natural gas to the Ukrainian border by
the amount it says Ukraine has taken from shipments destined for
customers further west.  
 The proposal was presented by Gazprom Chief Executive
Officer Alexei Miller to Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who
approved it, after supplies to Ukraine were halted on Jan. 1 in
a pricing dispute. Ukrainian utility NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy denies
siphoning gas that’s transiting through the country, saying
certain volumes are required to keep pipelines operational.  
 “We propose cutting supplies to the Ukrainian border by
the amount that was stolen, 65.3 million cubic meters, and to
make further cuts based on the amount stolen daily,” Miller
said in a meeting with Putin at his residence outside Moscow.  
 Russia supplies a quarter of Europe’s gas, and 80 percent
of that is transported through Ukraine. Miller repeated promises
to boost natural-gas deliveries to Europe via other routes after
a shortfall on Jan. 3 that each side blames on the other.  
 Gazprom raised its price demands yesterday to $450 per
1,000 cubic meters, while Ukraine says $201 is a fair price. A
similar spat in 2006 disrupted supplies to  Europe  prompted the
European Union to call for commitments to be honored “under all
circumstances.”  
 Gas Debt  
 Ukraine already owes Gazprom $614 million for gas supplied
in 2008 and that debt could soon grow to “billions of dollars”
if it continues to siphon off gas after deliveries were halted,
Miller said. Ukraine says it owes no debt.  
 Miller said Russia will buy gas on the market to guarantee
deliveries to customers in western Europe, adding Naftogaz
Ukrainy would have to pay these debts. Gazprom is preparing a
visit to the European Commission to lay out its arguments,
spokesman  Sergei Kupriyanov  said after the meeting.  
 A widening rift between Ukrainian president  Viktor Yushchenko  and former Orange Revolution ally, Prime Minister
Yulia Timoshenko, has been cited by analysts as hindering an
agreement. Miller repeated allegations that Yushchenko was
responsible for the standoff in today’s meeting.  
 “The Ukrainian people will suffer,” in the dispute, Putin
told Miller. “One has to pity them.”  
 The instruction to break off talks was given “personally”
by Yushchenko, Miller said. “So he’s not worrying about the
people,” Miller said.  
 Kiev Invitation  
 Gazprom agreed to a Naftogaz invitation to come to Kiev in
coming days to discuss a “preliminary agreement on gas supply
to Ukraine in 2009-2019,” the Moscow-based company said in a
letter distributed today by Naftogaz. The Russian exporter said
Naftogaz must still come to Moscow to sign an agreement, citing
“international practice under which talks are held in the place
where the seller is based.”  
 Still, Gazprom rejected Naftogaz’s request to negotiate a
new transit deal, saying the existing accord remains valid,
according to the letter.  
 Gazprom’s press office confirmed that it sent the letter to
Naftogaz. “Taking into consideration the current crisis
situation Gazprom is prepared to hold preliminary talks in
 Ukraine ,” the company said in an emailed response to questions.
The director of Gazprom’s Ukraine sales division, Anatoly
Podmyshalsky, has been appointed to represent Gazprom in the
talks, the statement said.  
 Ukraine’s top officials said on Jan. 1 a price of $201 per
thousand cubic meters of Russian gas would be fair for 2009,
compared with $179.50 last year. They also want to charge Russia
$2.05 for transporting 1,000 cubic meters of gas for 100
kilometres, compared with $1.70 in 2008.  
 Transit Fee  
 Gazprom is pressing for a transit fee of $1.60 this year,
citing a 2006 contract which runs through 2010, Naftogaz
spokesman Valentyn Zemlyanskyi said by phone today.  
 Ukraine’s Fuel and Energy Ministry filed a court suit this
month seeking to invalidate the $1.60 transit fee, Zemlyanskyi
said.  
 He said a court in Kiev decided today that the $1.60 fee
for Russian gas was invalid because the 2006 accord was signed
by the previous Naftogaz management, which at that time did not
have authorization from the Ukrainian government to be a party
to the transit agreement.  
 Officials at the Kiev economic court, which is hearing the
case, did not answer phone calls from the Bloomberg news. Fuel
and Energy Ministry spokesman Fant Di also could not be reached
on his mobile phone.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev on  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story: Chris Kirkham
at   ckirkham@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        