-- Ukraine May Siphon More Gas as Temperatures Drop, Analyst Says
-- Ben Farey
-- 2009-01-05T15:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-01-05/ukraine-may-siphon-more-gas-as-temperatures-drop-analyst-says.html

          
          
             Ukraine may siphon more Russian
natural gas from transit pipelines crossing its territory as
temperatures plunge in the coming days, according to an industry
consultant.  
 “Ukraine is taking a little bit now and will take more,”
 Mikhail Korchemkin , managing director of Pennsylvania-based  East
European Gas Analysis , said today in an e-mail. “The daily
storage withdrawal and domestic gas production cannot cover
Ukrainian demand on a cold day.”  
 The east European country, to the west of  Russia , has denied
that it’s siphoning supplies and says gas is needed to keep pipes
operating.  
 The average temperature in Ukraine’s capital, Kiev, may drop
to minus 14 degrees Celsius (7 Fahrenheit) tomorrow, according to
forecaster  CustomWeather Inc . That compares with the minus 5
degrees recorded on Jan. 1, when  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s gas-export
monopoly, cut off supplies of the fuel over a debt and pricing
dispute. Lower temperatures can boost demand for gas for heating.  
 “This week will be colder than average,” Korchemkin said,
adding that he will revise his estimate of Russian gas flows to
the European Union, based on the weather forecast. Korchemkin
said Dec. 26 that daily gas flows to the region may drop by as
much as 50 million cubic meters a day in the second half of
January if there’s no resolution to the impasse. He didn’t say
today what his revised estimate would be.  
 Balkan Gas Shortfall  
 “There will be shortages of Russian gas in the EU,
especially along the Balkan route in Romania, Bulgaria and
 Greece ,” he said. “Pipelines to  Hungary , Slovakia and  Poland 
are in a better position because they are linked to the huge gas
storage facilities in western Ukraine.”  
 Underground storage sites in Ukraine can pump as much as 250
million cubic meters of the fuel into the country’s pipeline
system every day, Korchemkin wrote on the East European Gas
Analysis Web site. After about 14 days, the withdrawal rate drops
to about 180 million cubic meters a day for as many as 30 days.  
 Ukraine has “record volumes” of gas still in storage
because of milder-than-normal temperatures in the first five to
six weeks of the heating season, he said.  
 The effect of any siphoning from transit pipelines would be
mitigated by a combination of warmer weather in the first part of
the European winter and the economic slowdown, which is reducing
demand for the fuel.  
 Ukraine’s metals industry used 53 percent less gas in
November than a year earlier, according to East European Gas
Analysis.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        