-- Marxist Professors Are Gift to Climate Skeptics: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2009-12-21T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-20/marxist-professors-are-gift-to-climate-skeptics-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             The revelation that climate
scientists at the University of East Anglia manipulated data and
conspired to corrupt the peer-review process has been very bad
news for those hoping to enact laws to limit greenhouse gas
emissions.  
 A December poll by CBS News and the New York Times found
that only 37 percent of Americans now think global warming is a
very serious problem and should be one of the highest priorities
for government leaders, a whopping 15 percentage point drop
since 2007. While the poll report attributes the drop to the
economic decline during the intervening two years, it’s safe to
assume the scandal known as Climategate contributed to the
change in public perception.  
 Such statistics surely are frustrating for climate
scientists. The vast majority of them assert that the stolen e-
mails did nothing to upend the balance of the literature, which
still tilts heavily toward a consensus that warming is a big,
man-made problem.  
 The public’s skepticism toward the scientists is part of a
bigger problem, one that threatens the fabric of our culture.
Academe has been so politicized, and so radically disconnected
from the population, that ordinary citizens no longer trust
anything that it produces -- even science.  
 The sad fact is that explicit or implicit political litmus
tests are far more important than science at universities and
so-called peer-reviewed journals. Universities may pay lip
service to “diversity,” but diversity of thought is taboo.  
 Damning Survey  
 A 2007 survey of more than 1,400 professors by sociologists
Neil Gross of Harvard University and Solon Simmons of George
Mason University is as damning an indictment of an organization
as you are ever likely to see.  
 The authors compiled the political affiliation and beliefs
of the professors, who were asked to identify themselves along a
spectrum from very liberal to very conservative. Across all
fields, 44 percent identified themselves as liberal or very
liberal, while 9.2 percent identified themselves as conservative
or very conservative.  
 Strikingly, the data were even more tilted in the physical
and biological sciences. There, 45.2 percent of professors
identified themselves as liberal, while only 8 percent said they
were conservative.  
 The authors dug deeper than many previous studies and
established some startling findings.  
 In the social sciences, 24 percent of professors identified
themselves as liberal “radicals” and 18 percent as Marxists.
Only 4.9 percent of social scientists identified themselves as
“conservative.”  
 Marxists Everywhere  
 So there are almost five times as many self-identified
liberal radicals on our faculties, and more than three times as
many Marxists as there are conservatives. Last I checked,
Marxism has been utterly discredited. Yet there are still
Marxists everywhere, poisoning the minds of our children.
Conservatives, on the other hand, are a rarity.  
 While there isn’t enough data to address the question, it
is safe to assume that no other profession is so tilted. In a
society about evenly split between liberals and conservatives,
achieving such a bias requires serious effort. It doesn’t happen
by accident.  
 If you want to run conservatives out, you need to
discourage dissertations that might reach conservative
conclusions. You need to shun young students if their work
questions liberal orthodoxy. You need to control the academic
journals, rejecting papers submitted by identifiable
conservatives.  
 Political Bias  
 You need to celebrate work that supports the political bias
of Democrats. If your research shows that higher minimum wages
are terrific, an endowed chair is yours for the taking. Question
whether a higher minimum wage might cause higher unemployment,
and find your place on the bread line.  
 For years, I have watched the economic community act this
way. The hacked East Anglia e-mails confirm that exactly this
type of conspiracy is in place. They show climate experts
plotting how to keep the lid on research that didn’t support the
prevailing view on global warming. In one e-mail, Michael Mann
of Penn State University proposed boycotting an academic journal
because it had published an article that provided evidence
contrary to global warming canon.  
 Small wonder that our academic system can no longer claim
the authority necessary to drive policy. The distrust that the
academic community has rightly earned is devastating for
society. We have lost the only institution that could deliver
the widely acknowledged facts upon which rational policy could
be based.  
 Fire Political Professors  
 If Americans can no longer trust anything, even science,
then it is time for radical reform, starting with the
elimination of tenure. When professors abandon science and take
up politics, ask them to leave.  
 Second, universities and journals should engage in informal
affirmative action for conservatives. While it is hard to say
exactly how many conservatives it might take to ease concerns of
bias, a safe place to start might be to make sure you have more
conservatives than Marxists.  
 Finally, the spirit of open debate should be assiduously
enforced, even on issues such as climate. Universities should
teach students how to think, not what to believe. Debate is a
necessary part of that process.  
 Such reforms are, of course, unlikely. So you can bet that
policies will continue to fail if they rely on faith in science.  
 (Kevin Hassett, director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist. He
was an adviser to Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona in
the 2008 presidential election. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at   khassett@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        