-- U.S. Charities Top OECD Amid Health-Care Mess: Albert R. Hunt
-- 
-- 2009-12-20T17:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-20/u-s-charities-top-oecd-amid-health-care-mess-albert-r-hunt.html

          
          
             Taking several days off last week to
bring a child home from college, my reading materials included
reports from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development, courtesy of a breakfast with  Angel Gurria , the
energetic Mexican secretary general of the outfit.  
 The Paris-based OECD is a group of 30 developed and
developing countries that promotes democracy and free-market
economics. These are mostly high-income economies such as the
U.S.,  Japan , South Korea and the larger European nations, and a
few less-affluent countries, including Mexico and  Poland .  
 I have drawn two conclusions from this experience: I get
more boring with age, and some of the data comparing U.S.
economic and social performance with other OECD countries are
very instructive for current policy debates.  
 The numbers reveal realities and a few myths. The U.S.
isn’t an overtaxed country, indeed, taxes are relatively low;
the government, in general, makes fewer public expenditures than
in most other countries; total health-care spending dwarves
anyplace else, and the outcomes are mediocre at best; the U.S.
invests more in education, especially higher education, though
high-school performance results are comparatively disappointing;
and America remains a leader in scientific research and
development.  
 Most of these statistics are for 2006 or 2007. Experts say
there’s been little basic change; the financial tsunami of the
past year and a half affected all OECD countries.  
 Case for Health Overhaul  
 The comparative health-care data reinforce the case for a
major revamping of the U.S. system, which, by any measurement,
doesn’t work. The recent arguments of the political left and
political right that the changes considered are worse than the
status quo seem dubious.  
 According to the OECD figures, the U.S. spends 16 percent
of its gross domestic product on health care (it’s a little
higher this year), almost double the average of other nations
and almost 50 percent more than the next highest-spending
country.  
 The outcomes in the U.S. are inferior.  Life expectancy  is
lower than in most other countries, infant mortality is higher,
and Americans are twice as likely to be obese; not surprisingly,
diabetes is a bigger problem. The cancer outcomes are mixed,
with America doing better on prostate cancer than most other
countries but not as well on  lung cancer , and in the middle in
treatment of  breast cancer . At almost eight times the OECD
average, the incidence of AIDS in the U.S. is dramatically
higher than in any other country.  
 ‘Unmet Needs’  
 There is a category called “unmet needs,” which usually
means that because of excessive cost, long waiting lines, not
being able to take off from work or the need to take care of
children, citizens don’t receive necessary care. In most OECD
countries, a majority of the population reports no unmet health-
care needs. In the U.S., more than half the adult population
with below-average incomes reports not getting care -- missing a
medical test, treatment or follow-up or not filling a
prescription -- because it was too expensive.  
 On a cost-effective basis, the U.S. trails all other
countries.  
 On education, contrary to conventional wisdom, America
invests more than other countries, almost 7.4 percent of GDP,
although it’s the private outlays that overshadow other places.
On higher education, the U.S. spends twice the average. The
secondary education performance provides a good argument for the
school-reform movement in America. Our teachers’ salaries are
pretty high, though below high-performing countries like Japan
and  South Korea . On performance, high school students lag behind
the average in math and science and well behind Japan and South
Korea and the leader,  Finland .  
 Research Investment  
 In science and technology, the investments are well above
the average, trailing only the Scandinavian countries and Japan
and South Korea. In the U.S., more investment comes from the
private sector than from government.  
 The most instructive OECD data may be in the area of public
finance. There is some comforting news for the U.S.: Despite
concerns about public debt, it’s a bigger problem in most other
countries.  
 Government in the U.S. spends less of the nation’s GDP,
about $3 out of every $8, than in the other countries. Under a
category the OECD calls “ social protection ,” which includes
 unemployment benefits , old-age pensions, and disability
payments, the U.S. is particularly stingy, paying out less than
any country other than South Korea.  
 Government Revenue  
 Overall government revenue comprises only a little more
than one-third of the nation’s output, much lower than all OECD
countries except Japan and South Korea. Tax receipts are
equivalent to about 28 percent of GDP; the OECD averages about
36 percent and European nations average almost 40 percent.  
 Moreover, and no surprise, the U.S. relies much more on
 corporate taxes and individual income taxes  than on other
levies. Taxes on goods and services in America raised only about
17 percent of total tax receipts in 2007, about half the average
of OECD countries. About half of U.S. taxes are income and
profit taxes -- this is the sixth-highest rate of member
nations.  
 This provides an argument for tax-reform proponents who
claim the U.S., with comparatively high income taxes, is at a
competitive disadvantage compared with countries that have
consumption taxes. Despite the political unpopularity -- only 20
percent of the public in a recent Bloomberg National Poll said a
consumption or value-added tax would be acceptable --this
reality, coupled with the chronic deficits may force a
rethinking of this issue.  
 There is a bit of cheer this holiday season, though not
from the OECD. In the U.S., charitable contributions total more
than 1.5 percent of GDP. That’s twice the percentage in the
U.K., tenfold what the French give.  
 With the severe recession, giving is down everywhere. In
the U.S., hospitals, universities and foundations have been hit
especially hard. Still, Americans remain the most generous
people on the globe when it comes to charity.  
 ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Albert R. Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        