-- Dodd Plans Hearing on Credit Raters' Subprime Role
-- Peter Cook
-- 2007-08-30T17:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-30/dodd-plans-hearing-on-credit-raters-subprime-role-update3-.html

          
          
             U.S. Senate Banking Committee
Chairman Christopher Dodd said he'll call credit-rating companies
to Capitol Hill this fall to explain why they gave high ratings
to subprime-mortgage securities that have plummeted in value.  
 The companies did ``great damage'' because of their ratings,
Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat seeking his party's presidential
nomination, said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in  Iowa  City, Iowa. ``They've got a lot of explaining to do in my
view on why they were giving AAA ratings to securities that never
deserved them,'' Dodd said.  
 Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch
Ratings, the biggest credit-rating companies, have come under
increased scrutiny because their ratings on bonds backed by
mortgages held by people with poor or limited credit don't
reflect the fastest default rate in a decade.  
 The  Senate Banking Committee  has already held a series of
hearings to examine lending practices that Dodd and federal
regulators say contributed to rising numbers of subprime mortgage
foreclosures. Dodd has chided the Federal Reserve and other bank
regulators for not doing enough to protect consumers and has
pressured them to write new rules restricting deceptive
practices.  
 Dodd said in the interview he wanted to examine the
``special status'' that allows credit rating companies more
access than investors to information about public companies.  
 Few Credit-Raters  
 Moody's (MCO)  said in June 2006 it had 39 percent of the global
credit rating market, second to S&P which had 40 percent. Fitch
was the next-biggest company in the field, with a 15 percent
market share.  
 ``We look forward to discussing our role in the capital
markets to promote better understanding of how rating agencies
work,'' said Chris Atkins, a spokesman for Standard & Poor's.  
 Moody's spokesman Tony Mirenda said the company is ``subject
to recurring oversight'' from regulators and lawmakers and will
maintain a ``constructive dialogue with policy makers to enhance
the overall understanding of the structured-finance market.''  
 Fitch has been ``actively reviewing'' all of its subprime
ratings, company spokesman James Jockle said.  
 ``More than 82 billion AAA ratings from the 2006 vintage of
U.S. subprime residential mortgage-backed securities have been
affirmed,'' Jockle said.  
 The companies have been under scrutiny from Congress since
2001, when lawmakers began examining ways to increase competition
in the credit-rating industry after Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc.
defaulted on $41.8 billion of debt.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is implementing
stricter rules for regulating the companies passed by Congress
last year. The legislation cleared the way for additional credit-rating companies to gain federal recognition in a bid to foster
competition for Moody's and Standard & Poor's.  
 Problems in the subprime market may also be ``spilling over
into the prime mortgage area,'' Dodd said. ``If that is the case,
this is going to be a much bigger problem.''  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  Washington  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Erik Schatzker  at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        