-- Adidas sees Reebok hitting $5 billion in sales
-- By  Scott Malone
-- Thu Feb 1, 2007 6:27pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/01/businesspro-adidas-reebok-dc-idUSN0118083020070201

 

 CANTON, Massachusetts  (Reuters) - Adidas AG ADSG.DE 
expects growth overseas, particularly in Asia, to push sales at 
its Reebok division to $5 billion (3.8 billion euros) over the 
next three to five years, up from their current $3 billion (2.3 
billion euros) level, Herbert Hainer, chairman and chief 
executive of Adidas, said on Thursday. 


  The world's second-largest sporting goods maker after Nike 
Inc. ( NKE.N ), also said it expected to cut costs across the 
company -- including at Reebok, which it acquired last year -- 
by about 87 million euros this year. That will more than offset 
integration costs, resulting in an overall cost savings of 
about 10 million to 20 million euros ($13 million to $26 
million), Hainer said.  "For the Reebok brand, the main growth driver will be Asia, 
to a certain extent Europe as well," Hainer said in an 
interview with Reuters. "Key markets like Germany and France 
are underdeveloped, as is Russia. Emerging markets have a huge 
potential and we will grow in the U.S., but by far not at the 
pace of Asia."  Much of that growth will come toward the latter part of 
that period, though, with the brand expecting only "modest" 
revenue growth of mid-single-digit percentages, said Paul 
Harrington, president and CEO of the Reebok brand.  Adidas, of Germany, bought Reebok a year ago in a $3.8 
billion deal, looking to complement its strength in Europe with 
a major U.S. brand that had greater strength in the fashion 
segment.  But the Reebok brand has been a drag on Adidas performance 
thus far. In November, the German company lowered its 2007 
profit growth forecast to 15 percent from 20 percent, citing 
trouble at Reebok.  Adidas shares have slid almost 14 percent since the Reebok 
takeover closed on January 31, 2006. Rival Nike's shares have 
risen about 24 percent over that time.
  EYES ASIAN EXPANSION  Reebok's sales have been lagging in the United States and 
the United Kingdom, though Adidas plans a big expansion for the 
brand in Asia, including about 3,200 stores in China, India and 
Russia by 2010. The brand also has an eye to expand in Turkey, 
Poland and other parts of eastern Europe, executives said.  This year Reebok aims to open 90 stores in Russia and 200 
in China, Harrington said during a presentation in this suburb 
about 20 miles south of Boston.  Hainer said he also sees Japan and South Korea as ripe for 
Reebok expansion.  In Brazil, Argentina, Switzerland and Spain the brand is 
still sold by third-party distributors. Hainer said the company 
is working to buy out those contracts, but that some may have 
to run their course through 2012.  Currently, about 40 percent of the Reebok brand's sales 
come from North America and 40 percent from Europe, with the 
balance coming from the rest of the world, which Reebok 
executives said could rise to represent a bigger part of 
overall sales, the executives said.  Part of what makes the expansion outside the United States 
so appealing is that profit margins for shoes and clothing tend 
to be higher in the rest of the world, Hainer said.  "Consumption in the U.S. market for sport goods is very 
high. U.S. consumers on average buy seven to eight pairs (of 
sneakers) a year," Hainer said in the interview. "Where you 
have a high consumption, you are much more price-sensitive. 
When you have a less high consumption you say, 'OK, if I only 
buy one pair of football boots per year then I want to have the 
best. ... You have much higher quantity on the U.S. market, but 
you have much more value, higher (profit) margins on the 
European or Asian market."  (1 euro = $1.30)