-- UPDATE 6-Total Q3 net profit tops forecasts, ups dividend
-- 
-- Wed Nov 8, 2006 11:11am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/08/energy-total-idUSL0862350820061108

 

  (Adds CFO comments on Bolivia, production, updates share price) 

  By Emelia Sithole PARIS  Nov 8 (Reuters) - Total SA ( TOTF.PA ) posted a slight
drop in underlying third-quarter net profit on Wednesday as
production fell and taxes rose, but the French oil company beat
forecasts due to strong downstream earnings and raised its
dividend.  The world's fourth-largest oil company by market
capitalisation said on Wednesday it would, as largely expected,
increase its interim dividend 16 percent to 0.87 euros per share
and keep its medium-term production growth targets.  "We believe that increasing the dividend is clearly the
strongest signal that we can show our shareholders of our
confidence to grow profitability in the long term," Chief
Financial Officer Robert Castaigne said on a conference call.  Adjusted net profit, which excludes changes in inventory
value and one-off items, fell to 3.11 billion euros ($4 billion)
from 3.13 billion in the same period last year but exceeded an
average forecast of 3.06 billion in a Reuters poll of 12
analysts.  An increase in UK petroleum taxes skimmed 143 million euros
from net profit, without which adjusted net income would have
been 4 percent higher that a year ago, Total said.  In U.S. dollar terms, underlying earnings rose 4 percent,
compared with a 21 percent rise in profits calculated in a
similar manner at Royal Dutch Shell ( RDSa.L ) ( RDSb.L ) and a 16
percent fall at BP Plc ( BP.L ).   "Overall ... (these were) unimpressive results during a
quarter when most of Total's peers have comfortably beaten
expectations," Citigroup analysts said in a research note.  "However, we would view any weakness in the shares as a
buying opportunity ahead of the upstream operational recovery
expected in 2007."  Total's shares reversed earlier losses to trade 1.19 percent
firmer at 55.05 euros by 1600 GMT, outperforming the DJ Stoxx
European oil and gas sector index's .SXEP 0.75 percent gain.  
  OIL PRODUCTION  Total's oil and gas production fell a slightly
steeper-than-expected 5.5 percent to 2.29 million barrels per
day on continuing disruptions in Nigeria, lower volumes from
production-sharing agreements and the sale of some onshore
assets in the United States.  This result compared with flat production at Shell and a 7
percent rise at industry leader Exxon Mobil Corp ( XOM.N ).  Castaigne told reporters he expected production for the full
year to be 2.35 million barrels of oil equivalent a day, just
short of a previous forecast of 2.40 million boed due to a
greater-than-expected impact from disruptions in Nigeria.  But Total expects production to pick up in 2007. Castaigne
forecast 7 percent growth as new projects come on stream
including the giant Dalia field offshore Angola, which is
expected to start up in mid-December.  Castaigne said production at Dalia would be built up
progressively over a period of around six months and would
eventually contribute around 4 percent of group output.  This would put it on track to achieve its target of average
annual output growth of close to 4 percent between 2005 and
2010, broadly in line with BP's plans but exceeding expectations
for many other oil majors, including Shell.  "In our view, Total has one of the best combinations of
near-term and longer-term exploration and production volume
growth in the sector," a London-based analyst said.  Like others in the industry, Total's downstream refining and
fuel marketing business was a key driver for group profits in
the third quarter.  "Since the beginning of the fourth quarter 2006, oil prices
have remained high, albeit at a level below the year-to-date
average, and refining margins have maintained a level close to
that of the third quarter 2006," the company said in a
statement.  Castaigne said the group was on track with its capital
spending objective for the full year of $14.5 billion, excluding
acquisitions.  He also reiterated the group's support for exploration and
production chief Christophe de Margerie, who is facing
allegations in a French investigation over oil purchases made
under the U.N.'s oil-for-food programme in Iraq.  Castaigne said Margerie would take over as chief executive
as planned from Thierry Desmarest in mid-February and that there
was no basis for the allegations against him.  Total was also more upbeat than rivals such as the UK's BG
( BG.L ) about the future of its investments in Bolivia after it
signed new operating contracts in line with President Evo
Morales' nationalisation of energy resources.  "These should profitably unlock our very large resources
base there," Castaigne said on a conference call with analysts.
 (Additional reporting by  Tom Bergin  in London)



