-- UPDATE 2-Interpublic posts smaller quarterly loss
-- 
-- Wed Nov 8, 2006 10:11am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/11/08/media-ipg-earns-idUSN0821901420061108

 

  (Adds comments from conference call, byline) 

  By  Paul Thomasch NEW YORK  Nov 8 (Reuters) - Interpublic Group of Cos. Inc.
( IPG.N ), the world's No. 3 advertising services company, on
Wednesday reported a smaller quarterly net loss, helped by
higher spending by its established advertising and marketing
clients.  Interpublic, whose ad agencies include DraftFCB,
McCann-Erickson and Lowe Worldwide, reported a third-quarter
net loss applicable to common shareholders of $6.1 million, or
1 cent a share, compared with a loss of $107.8 million, or 25
cents a share, a year earlier.  Revenue rose 1 percent to $1.45 billion at the advertising
giant, which is in the midst of a turnaround after struggling
with client losses, earnings restatements and management
change.  IPG's results were better than expected on Wall Street,
where analysts surveyed by Reuters Estimates had forecast a
loss of 13 cents a share on revenue of $1.41 billion. Shares of
IPG rose 3 percent in early trade on the New York Stock
Exchange.  Another closely watched benchmark, organic revenue, which
excludes the impact of foreign currency and recent
acquisitions, rose 2.7 percent as higher spending by clients
helped offset account losses, such as Bank of America ( BAC.N ).  But IPG has also won some high-profile accounts this year,
most notably Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ), which moved to
DraftFCB. The win was made even more significant because it
appeared to confirm IPG's decision earlier this year to create
DraftFCB by combining its highly successful direct marketing
service, Draft, with a creative agency, FCB.  "Obviously, Wal-Mart is a great win for us," IPG Chief
Executive Michael Roth said on a conference call. "We kind of
view this from the IPG perspective as a validation of our
strategy."  Roth also said IPG was winning new accounts "across the
board," adding that he was "quite pleased with the progress
we're making with respect to the turnaround."  "I think out results indicate we're on track."  One area IPG has been trying to improve is its spending.
The company managed to cut its operating expenses in the third
quarter to $1.43 billion from $1.55 billion.  It has also promised to be more transparent after it came
under heavy criticism because of accounting problems and a
probe by regulators.  In light of that, it disclosed as part of its earnings
report on Wednesday that it had undertaken a review of its
stock options policies.  It said the review was nearly complete and had found "no
evidence of any systematic pattern of selecting an exercise
price for options based on the lowest stock price over the
period preceding option grants." It also found that all grants
made after 2002 had been accounted for correctly.  But IPG also said it had uncovered what it called
"deficiencies" in "controls related to the granting,
documenting and accounting for stock options."  As a result of these deficiencies, it said there were some
errors in accounting for options prior to 2002, although they
were not material. Because of the errors, it has added to its
books $26.4 million of accumulated compensation expense as of
Jan. 1, 2006.  IPG shares were up 33 cents at $11 in early trade on the
New York Stock Exchange.



