-- Tesco "increasingly encouraged" by U.S. prospects
-- By  Rachel Sanderson
-- Tue Apr 17, 2007 11:44am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/17/businesspro-tesco-us-dc-idUSL1761397320070417

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - Tesco ( TSCO.L ) Chief Executive Terry 
Leahy is "increasingly encouraged" by the prospects for the 
British supermarket giant's entry into the United States in the 
autumn as demand for healthy and organic foods grow. 

  Announcing a record 2.5 billion pound yearly profit, Leahy 
said Tesco's decision to open smaller convenience stores with a 
focus on their "green" credentials could work to its advantage 
in the world's most competitive retail market.  "I think it's well timed as California reassesses its 
consumption in the light of climate change and people in the 
United States are looking are looking for an alternative to big 
box retailers," Leahy told reporters.  Tesco said it was also tripling its start-up costs to make 
a "major effort" for its U.S. launch to 65 million pounds from 
20 million pounds, heightening expectations its long-term aim 
is to take on Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ) on its home turf.  "We are expanding quickly so we are going to be opening up 
and having the carrying costs of quite a lot of stores as we 
get going," Leahy told a conference call.  The much-anticipated launch of Tesco's "Fresh & Easy 
Neighborhood Market" in the second half of this year is so 
secretive its test store was built inside a California 
warehouse and curious onlookers were told it was a Hollywood 
movie set.  Although keeping to Tesco's policy of not providing the 
finer details of its U.S. opening plans, Leahy said he planned 
to open a significant number of stores later this year in Los 
Angeles, Phoenix, Las Vegas and San Diego.  "We are pleased with the progress. Morale is very, very 
high and people are excited about the business," Leahy said.  Analysts speculate Tesco could roll out nationally within a 
year with 300 stores tapping a new market for lower-cost, 
healthy fresh foods, particularly in the inner cities.  Tesco confirmed it would spend 250 million pounds per year 
and open stores of just 10,000 square feet, smaller than a 
traditional 45,000 square foot grocer or a Wal-Mart supercenter 
with 200,000 square feet.  A buoyant mood at U.S. Tesco is expected to be particularly 
uncomfortable for Wal-Mart, which built its business on strong 
worker loyalty but has seen some of that eroded in the past 
year by negative publicity and employee lawsuits.