-- Are Your Sources of Strategic Advantage Eroding?
-- Lang Davison
-- 2009-12-11T05:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-12-11/are-your-sources-of-strategic-advantage-eroding-.html

          
          
             Until now, executives have focused on two forms of strategic advantage: structural and capability-based.  The Big Shift  challenges both.  It undermines traditional approaches to structural advantage by systematically reducing barriers to entry and movement.  Static capabilities are also increasingly vulnerable - they represent  knowledge stocks that depreciate  at an accelerating rate.  Unless they are rapidly refreshed  by knowledge flows , these capabilities rapidly lose their power to differentiate. The findings from our recently released  2009 Shift Index  provide graphic evidence on these points.  Our analysis shows  a sustained and significant deterioration in ROA for all public companies in the US since 1965 - ROA declined by over 75% during this period. 

 But, like all other dimensions, the Big Shift is a bad news, good news story.  It undermines the old, generating increasing competitive intensity and pressure but, at another level, it creates new opportunities. 

 Where will strategic advantage reside in the Big Shift?  It will likely integrate both a structural and capability dimension. 

 Strategic advantage will arise structurally from privileged access to a growing and diverse set of knowledge flows well beyond the boundaries of the firm.  Some companies will be more successful in becoming concentration points for relevant knowledge flows.  In a world where new knowledge arises continually in unexpected places, this positional advantage will be very powerful.  It will provide early visibility into new emerging innovation opportunities. 

 Current examples include emerging application platforms like those commercialized by software-as-a-service vendors, smart phone vendors and social network companies. While providing increasing value to customers, these application platforms provide their owners with a level of visibility into adoption and usage patterns. This provides extraordinary value as the platform owners evolve the functionality they offer to customers and third parties.  

 Technology platforms aid these flow concentration positions, but they are not necessary. Think of a company in the apparel business with a global network of over 10,000 business partners.  This company has unprecedented visibility into both fashion trends and sourcing and production innovations that few other companies could match. Anyone who orchestrates large and diverse ecosystems of participants can establish this kind of positional advantage. 

 But, is this positional advantage sufficient?  No, companies can actually become overwhelmed with knowledge flows if they have not developed the capability to filter, engage and apply the knowledge that can be accessed through this privileged position. 

 Filtering flows.  When companies encounter too many knowledge flows, they can easily become too reactive and spread themselves too thin as they vainly seek to sense and respond to all the stimuli headed their way.  Unless they have a clear sense of direction that can help them to filter and prioritize the knowledge flows that matter the most, they will be easily distracted and bogged down.  Of course, at the same time, they must remain alert and curious enough to pay attention to anomalies and exceptions calling into question their current direction. 

 Engaging with knowledge flow participants.   As we discussed earlier , tacit knowledge that is most valuable can only be accessed through trust-based relationships. Even more valuable is the ability to generate new knowledge through these relationships. This requires engaging with the people possessing this tacit knowledge around challenging performance issues so that they are motivated to apply their experience, skills and perspectives to generate new knowledge and push performance to new levels. 

 Applying knowledge from flows.  Of course, filtering flows and engaging with knowledge flow participants matters little if we lack the ability to apply the knowledge acquired. Often the biggest barriers to the application of knowledge reside within our own walls.   For example, an engaged team at the edge of our enterprise builds relationships with third parties and generates new knowledge in the process of addressing a particular performance challenge. Too often that knowledge remains isolated on the edge and never makes it into other parts of the organization. Scaling the application of this knowledge to address similar performance issues across the firm becomes a core capability. 

 While core competencies were traditionally viewed as domain specific, this new source of strategic advantage might be viewed as a meta-capability, involving the dispositions, skills and institutional arrangements required to create and capture as much value from knowledge flows as possible. Combining these capabilities with privileged access to knowledge flows can build a powerful new strategic advantage.  These two sources of advantage powerfully reinforce each other- the more capability a company has to create value from knowledge flows, the more likely it will develop and attract new knowledge flows. 

 This new form of strategic advantage benefits from network effects and increasing returns. Once a critical mass of knowledge flows is achieved, flows begin to concentrate at an increasing rate and the value generated from these flows grows exponentially.  In a world of frequent disruption, these powerful network effects can still be overcome but they provide a much more powerful form of advantage than in the past. 

 To what extent are traditional sources of strategic advantage for your company eroding? Where does your company stand in harnessing this new source of strategic advantage? What obstacles prevent your company from more aggressively targeting this new source of advantage? 

 Lang Davison is the former executive director of the Deloitte Center for the Edge and was previously editor-in-chief of  The McKinsey Quarterly.  He is co-author of  The Power of Pull: How Small Moves, Smartly Made, Set Big Things in Motion. 

