-- Gazprom, Eni Plan New Gas Pipeline to European Union
-- Yuriy Humber
-- 2007-06-23T16:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-23/gazprom-eni-plan-new-gas-pipeline-to-european-union-update3-.html

          
          
             OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world's biggest
natural-gas producer, and  Eni SpA (ENI)  may build a pipeline from
 Russia  to the European Union, bypassing neighbors that have
threatened to block supplies on existing routes.  
 The 900-kilometer (558-mile) South Stream pipeline could go
under the Black Sea to  Bulgaria  and then split in two, Eni Chief
Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  told reporters in Rome today. The
project will now go through feasibility studies, and construction
may start as early as next year, he said. It will carry gas equal
to as much as a third of German demand.  
 State-controlled Gazprom, seeking to bolster European sales
and cut transit risks, has announced three new pipeline projects
in 12 months. Neighbors including Ukraine and Belarus are used as
transit countries for Russian gas sales to EU nations and both
have threatened to block supplies because of pricing disputes.  
 ``Gas is a political commodity nowadays; economically
speaking, this project is not really justifiable,'' Vladimir Matias, managing partner of Asset Capital Partners, said today by
phone from Vienna.  
 The new pipeline will provide a direct route into  Italy  and
 Austria  and mirrors Gazprom's project with E.ON AG and BASF AG to
build the  Nord Stream  pipeline to  Germany . South Stream will
avoid the need to send gas through Ukraine and Belarus, while
Nord Stream bypasses the Baltic states, which often have tense
political relations with Russia.  
 Gazprom, based in Moscow, already supplies a quarter of
 Europe 's gas needs. The company's profitability depends on
exports since state-set gas prices in Russia are about a fifth of
those in Europe.  
 Russian Control  
 Russia is seeking to regain control of energy assets and has
pressured foreign investors into relinquishing their projects in
the country.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  ceded control of its $22
billion Sakhalin-2 project to Gazprom in December, while a unit
of BP Plc yesterday announced the sale of its 63 percent stake in
a Siberian gas deposit to Gazprom.  
 For Eni, Europe's fourth-largest oil company, the pipeline
would secure gas supplies for Europe's third-largest gas market
behind the U.K. and Germany. Italy buys 86 percent of its gas
from abroad, mainly Algeria and Russia. The new pipeline may
carry as much as 30 billion cubic meters of gas a year.  
 ``Building South Stream is the most audacious plan in the
history of gas pipelines and in our sector,'' Scaroni said. ``It
aims to meet the gap between Europe's gas supply and demand.''  
 Eni, based in Rome, agreed in November to let Gazprom build
up retail sales in Italy and extended its purchase contracts with
the producer to 2035 in return for joint access to oil and gas
reserves in Russia and Africa.  
 Gas Exports  
 Today's agreement ``underlines that Italy is playing ball
with Russia'' to secure future gas supplies, Asset  Capital
Partners 's Matias said.  
 Gazprom has exported gas to Italy via Eni since 1974.
Gazprom is already supplying about 25 billion cubic meters of gas
a year to Italy, making it Gazprom's second-largest country
client after Germany.  
 Still, Eni's existing dominance of the Italian gas market
may make winning regulatory approval for the southern route more
difficult. Only one of the two proposed pipelines within Europe
may be built and the northern route has a higher priority,
Scaroni said on the sidelines of the briefing.  
 The new proposed pipeline also carries political risk, some
investors said.  
 ``The gas will have to cross through eastern European
countries and east Europe hasn't reached the level of political
stability that makes for a good investment environment,'' said
Giorgio Mascherone, chief investment officer at Deutsche Bank SpA
in Milan, who helps manage 32 billion euros ($43 billion).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam L. Freeman in  Rome  at 
 afreeman5@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        