-- New York, U.S. Commemorate Sept. 11 Anniversary With Ceremonies, Protests
-- Henry Goldman
-- 2010-09-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-11/new-york-u-s-commemorate-sept-11-anniversary-with-ceremonies-protests.html

          
          
             Vice President  Joe Biden  joined New
York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and hundreds who lost family and
friends to remember the 2,752 people who perished in the Sept.
11, 2001, attack on the  World Trade Center .  
 The ninth-anniversary ceremony, held in Zuccotti Park
adjacent to the World Trade Center site in lower Manhattan
yesterday, began shortly before 8:46 a.m., the moment when a
jetliner hijacked by members of the Muslim terrorist group al-
Qaeda smashed into the complex’s north tower. A second airplane
hit the south tower 17 minutes later. The ceremony attracted
more people than last year’s event, held in a heavy rain.  
 “I just feel that even though she’s always in my heart, it
brings me a little closer to her to be here,” said Nick 
Chiarchiaro, 67, whose wife Dorothy died at age 59, along with 
36 others in her office at Fred Alger Management, a financial 
firm on the 93rd floor of Tower One.  
 Those who lost their lives on Sept. 11, 2001, included more
than 400 rescue workers. Among them were 343 firefighters and 60
police officers from  New York City  and the  Port Authority . Their
names are emblazoned on plaques in firehouses, at police
headquarters, and in memorials throughout the city and
neighboring counties.  
 “No other public tragedy has cut our city so deeply,”
Bloomberg said at yesterday’s ceremony.  
 Day of Remembrance  
 At the Pentagon near Washington, President  Barack Obama 
called yesterday “a day of remembrance, a day of reflection”
after laying a wreath at a ceremony honoring the 184 government
workers and airline passengers who died when hijacked American
Airlines Flight 77 slammed into the headquarters of the Defense
Department nine years ago at 9:37 a.m.  
 “The highest honor we can pay those we lost, indeed our
greatest weapon in this ongoing war, is to do what our
adversaries fear the most: to stay true to who we are as
Americans,” Obama said. “On this day and the days to come, we
choose to stay true to our best selves.”  
 This year’s remembrance fell a day after Muslims celebrated
Ramadan’s end with the feast of Eid al-Fitr and as Jews observe
their most solemn holidays: Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. And it
coincided with a rancorous debate ignited by a proposed Islamic
cultural center and mosque within two blocks of the site.  
 Supporters and opponents demonstrated throughout lower
Manhattan this afternoon, starting moments after victims’
relatives and friends finished reading the names of the dead.  
 Rebuilding  
 In New York, to highlight progress in rebuilding at the 16-
acre site, architects, designers, engineers, construction
workers and developers participated in the ceremony. Four office
towers, a transit center designed by  Santiago Calatrava , a
memorial and a museum may be complete by 2014, city and state
officials said during a Sept. 7 news conference.  
 The project’s signature $3.2 billion, 1,776-foot building,
1 World Trade Center, has reached the 36th floor, and will be
done by 2013, said  Christopher Ward , executive director of the
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site.
Last month, Conde Nast, which publishes magazines including
Vogue and Vanity Fair, announced its intention to lease 1
million square feet in the tower.  
 “No other place is as filled with our compassion, our love
and our solidarity,” Bloomberg said yesterday. “We will build
on the footprints of the past the foundation of the future.”  
 The mayor, who is chairman of the  National September 11
Memorial & Museum ’s board of directors, is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  
 Project Delays  
 The project experienced delays that spanned the
administrations of three New York governors and at least four in
New Jersey. They had to resolve disputes among themselves,
developer  Larry Silverstein , Mayor Bloomberg and officials of
the Port Authority.  
 For Kathy Clark, 54, of Easton, Pennsylvania, whose
brother,  Christopher Allingham , was 36 and working at Cantor
Fitzgerald on the 104th floor of Tower One, among the most
frustrating aspects of the past nine years has been “the time
it’s taken to build the memorial. Too many hands in the pot, too
many issues with the funding. If it’s ready by next year’s 10th
anniversary I’ll be happy.”  
 Nor were most New Yorkers polled happy with efforts to
build anew. A  Marist Poll  last week found seven in 10 said
“little or no progress has been made in rebuilding the site.”  
 Islamic Center  
 The poll also showed New Yorkers divided over the proposed
Islamic cultural center near the World Trade Center site, with
51 percent opposed to it and 41 expressing support. Though a
majority still rejects the plan, support increased from 34
percent in an Aug. 10 poll.  
 Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf , the center’s spiritual leader, said
it is meant to foster better relations between Islam and other
faiths. The center’s opponents, including former Alaska Governor
 Sarah Palin  and  Newt Gingrich , former speaker of the U.S. House
of Representatives, have said its establishment near the site of
the deadliest terrorist attack in U.S. history would be
inappropriate.  
 “The whole idea of putting a megamosque at a war memorial
is insulting,” Pam Geller, a protest organizer, said in an
interview. “They say they want outreach, but what they’re doing
hurts people.”  
 Adele Welty, 74, whose son,  Timothy Welty , died in the
attack at age 34, intended to avoid the Ground Zero ceremony.
She preferred to visit the Maspeth, Queens, firehouse where her
son was a firefighter.  
 “It’s totally inappropriate to be demonstrating on 9/11,
which should be a day of respect for the dead and for each
other,” she said in an Aug. 23 interview. “The more we
aggravate the situation instead of trying to resolve it in a
civil manner, the more we disrespect the dead.”  
 ‘Raw Feelings’  
 “The raw feelings over the mosque are one example of how,
nine years later, attitudes about the events of 9/11 defy
consensus and remain unresolved in the public’s mind,”  Lee Miringoff , director of the Marist College Institute of Public
Opinion of Poughkeepsie, New York, said in an interview.  
 In  Shanksville, Pennsylvania , where  United Airlines  Flight
93 crashed as civilians tried to wrest control from hijackers,
first lady  Michelle Obama  joined former first lady  Laura Bush 
for a memorial ceremony for the 33 passengers and seven crew
members who died.  
 Mrs. Bush said the passengers of Flight 93 “spared our
country from even greater horrors.” Mrs. Obama said she was
“filled with a sense of awe” by their heroism. Flight 93
departed Newark, New Jersey, and crashed at the rural site at
10:03 a.m.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Goldman  in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        