-- Don't inflate out of financial mess: Fed's Fisher
-- By  Ros Krasny
-- Thu Apr 17, 2008 1:56pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/04/17/businesspro-usa-fed-fisher-dc-idUSWAT00936720080417

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Trying to solve the financial 
industry's structural problems with more interest rate cuts 
would only worsen the situation by raising inflation, Dallas 
Federal Reserve Bank President Richard Fisher said on Thursday. 

  "I have maintained a strong reluctance to further general 
monetary accommodation," Fisher said in prepared remarks to the 
Chicago Council on Global Affairs.  Fisher has dissented against the last two Federal Open 
Market Committee decisions to lower benchmark lending rates.  He has argued in recent speeches that lower rates will not 
boost economic activity until the "pipes" of the U.S. financial 
system are totally flushed out.  "The answer ... is not to compound the bad by repeating the 
oft-prescribed remedy of inflating our way out of our 
predicament with a wing-and-a-prayer promise that it can always 
be reined in later," Fisher said.  "I have been an advocate of using our various discount 
window facilities, within reason, to bridge the financial 
system's structural problems as the credit markets correct 
themselves," he said.  Fisher's remarks, made available in advance, focused on the 
importance of trade to the U.S. economy and the need to tone 
down protectionist rhetoric.  "To wrap ourselves in the toxic, defensive mantle of 
protectionism ... is akin to embracing inflation as a remedy to 
the credit market correction," he said.  The United States can benefit from growing economies such 
as China and India by pressing its advantage in exports of 
services from medical care to entertainment, Fisher said.  "We shifted our buying from goods to services as we grew 
richer ... there is no reason to believe that the next group of 
countries climbing the income ladder will behave any 
differently," he said.  (Editing by  Neil Stempleman )