-- UPDATE 3-UBS says cooperating in U.S. Treasury bonds probe
-- 
-- Mon Oct 30, 2006 8:30am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/10/30/financial-banks-investigation-idUSL3051484420061030

 

  (Adds analysts' comment) 

  By Andrew Hurst ZURICH  Oct 30 (Reuters) - Swiss bank UBS AG ( UBSN.VX ) is
cooperating in an investigation by the U.S. authorities into
reported manipulation of U.S. Treasury bond prices, a spokesman
for the bank said on Monday.  "I can only confirm that UBS is cooperating in the
investigation," the bank's spokesman said, without offering
details.  The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday that the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) was conducting an
investigation into whether UBS was involved in improper
manipulation of Treasury securities prices.  UBS's share price fell 1.2 percent in early trading but was
later trading 0.89 percent below Friday's close.  The newspaper said a Credit Suisse ( CSGN.VX ) bond trader,
Thomas Brown, had left the firm amid regulatory scrutiny.  A spokesman for Credit Suisse ( CSGN.VX ) declined to comment
on the reported departure of a U.S. bond trader in such
circumstances.  "We are not commenting on this. It concerns an individual
not the institution," said a Credit Suisse spokesman.  The report comes after warnings in recent months by James
Clouse, U.S. Treasury deputy assistant secretary, and Treasury
Undersecretary Randal Quarles, over a rise in instances of firms
trying to profit from controlling particular Treasury
securities.  The Treasury was especially sensitive to trading in the 
market for its bonds because it depends on selling these
securities to raise cash to fund the budget deficit while the
Federal Reserve uses treasury securities to conduct monetary
policy, the Journal said.  The New York Federal Reserve has called for a Nov. 6 meeting
with primary dealers to discuss issues the U.S. Treasury
Department has raised about questionable trading practices.  One analyst said he wondered whether it was possible for
anybody to manipulate the U.S. Treasuries market in view of its
size. "It's a $4 trillion market. How can you manipulate such a
market?" said the Zurich-based analyst, who requested anonymity.  Others said UBS was likely to go to great lengths to protect
its reputation because of its large wealth management business.  "UBS is obsessed with its reputation for integrity because
of the private banking," said an analyst with a major
international bank in London.  The Journal reported that Credit Suisse's bond trading was
being scrutinised by regulators, citing a person familiar with
the matter, but said it was not clear which federal agency was
conducting the investigation.  Both UBS and Credit Suisse report third-quarter results this
week and are likely to face questioning from analysts.  Traders in Europe said the report was having no impact on
the U.S. Treasuries market.

