-- China Steelmakers to Halt Indian Ore Shipments on Tax
-- Thomas Kutty Abraham
-- 2007-03-21T09:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-21/china-steelmakers-to-halt-indian-ore-shipments-on-tax-update2-.html

          
          
             At least 10 steelmakers in  China 
including  Baosteel Group Corp. (600019) , the country's largest mill, have
agreed to suspend  iron ore  purchases from  India  after the South
Asian nation announced a tax on exports, an industry group said.  
 The new tax makes the steelmaking ingredient from India
less attractive and China's mills should seek other supplies,
Chen Xianwen, deputy director of market research at the China
Iron and Steel Association, said today. Zhang Dianbo, iron ore
trading head at Baosteel Group, could not be reached for comment.  
 The government on Feb. 28 announced a tax of 300 rupees ($7)
a ton on iron ore exports in a bid to ensure local supplies are
sufficient to meet domestic demand. The country provided 23
percent of China's 326 million tons of iron ore imports last
year, making it the second-biggest supplier after  Australia .  
 ``We encourage the steelmakers to diversify their ore
purchases and step up mining exploration,'' said Chen. ``India's
ore will be much less attractive.''  
 Sinosteel Corp. and China Minmetals Corp., China's two
biggest metal and mineral traders, have said they stopped buying
India ore. China's iron ore inventories are enough to last for
at least one month, the association's Chen said. The government-
backed group is funded by the nation's biggest steelmakers.  
 Slump Forecast  
 Chen's comments came as the Federation of Indian Mineral
Industries forecast today that iron ore exports from India may
tumble 32 percent this month because of the tax. India has the
world's fifth-largest reserves of the mineral.  
 Indian companies including  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  exported 4.98
million tons between March 1 and yesterday, and may ship a
further 2.18 million tons by the end of the month, R.K. Sharma,
secretary-general of the Indian association, said. Exports
totaled 10.6 million tons in March 2006.  
 ``There was uncertainty all around, and buyers and sellers
were holding back,'' said A.S. Firoz, an independent steel
analyst and former chief economist at India's steel ministry.
``This could have led to lower exports in March.''  
 Shipments of iron ore from mines to Indian ports ``have
completely stopped,'' the association's Sharma said by phone
from  New Delhi . ``Whatever is going out at the moment, was
already moved to the ports'' before the tax went into effect on
March 1, he said.  
 `Chinese Buyers'  
 ``We've not heard anything yet from Chinese buyers,'' D.K.
Sahni, the president of the Federation of Indian Mineral
Industries, said today. Still, ``this could well be a move to
put pressure on Indian suppliers and government.''  
 Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, who unveiled the
new tax in his budget, said March 16 that the government would
consider fresh comments from the country's iron ore industry and
may ``take a suitable decision'' on the tax.  
 ``We are meeting everyone in the government who matters to
press for a rollback of the duty,'' Sharma said.  
 Firoz, the independent steel analyst, said: ``There is a
strong possibility that the government could lower the tax.''  
 Exports of iron ore from India totaled 85.6 million tons
between April and February, 9 percent more than a year earlier,
according to data collected by the federation.  
 India's steel usage is forecast to rise 7.7 percent a year
from 2010 to 2015, faster than the 4.2 percent global rate in
the same period, according to the International Iron & Steel
Institute.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        