-- Nutreco Gains Most in 6 Months on Bid Speculation
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2007-03-21T17:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-21/nutreco-gains-most-in-6-months-on-bid-speculation-update5-.html

          
          
             Shares of  Nutreco Holding NV (NUO) , the
world's biggest salmon-feed producer, rose the most in six months
on speculation the company may be a target for a takeover backed
by London-based buyout firm Permira Advisers LLP.  
 There is ``speculation'' that Provimi SA, a French feed and
ingredients maker owned by Permira, may be interested in Nutreco,
Pascale Nachtergaele, an analyst at Delta Lloyd Securities in
Antwerp,  Belgium , said in an interview today. The combination
would yield ``quite a lot of synergies,'' Nachtergaele said.  
 Frank van Ooijen, a spokesman for Nutreco in Amersfoort,
said the company doesn't comment on ``market rumors.'' Permira's
London-based spokesman James Wyatt-Tilby declined to comment.
Provimi said today in its annual earnings statement that it will
``actively look for accretive acquisitions'' in 2007.  
 After raising a record $204 billion in new buyout funds last
year, firms such as Permira are notching up record deals. They
have announced $200 billion of takeovers in  Europe  in the past
year, a 46 percent increase on the previous 12 months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Permira agreed to buy Provimi for
about 783 million euros ($1 billion) in January.  
 Shares of Nutreco gained 1.96 euros, or 3.8 percent, to 54 euros
in Amsterdam, valuing the company at 18.9 billion euros. Earlier,
they climbed to 55.20 euros, the highest since the Amersfoort,
Netherlands-based company first started trading in 1997.  
 ``The move today is a bit unwarranted, but some people are
clearly thinking Nutreco may be a target,'' said Paul Brouwer, a
trader at SNS Securities NV in Amsterdam. ``Private equity is the
name of the game these days.''  
 Nutreco has been looking for targets itself to boost its
animal-feed business after selling salmon farmer Marine Harvest
and other units last year. Nutreco said on Feb. 15 that it's in
talks to buy companies with a combined revenue of about 1.3
billion euros.  
 Nutreco's sales were 3 billion euros last year. Provimi, based
in Trappes,  France , had revenue of 1.82 billion euros in 2006, the
company said today after the French stock market closed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        