-- Wuhan Steel Plans to Sell 7.5 Billion Yuan of Bonds
-- Jianguo Jiang
-- 2007-03-21T01:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-03-21/wuhan-steel-plans-to-sell-7-5-billion-yuan-of-bonds-update1-.html

          
          
             Wuhan Iron & Steel Co., the listed
unit of  China 's fifth-biggest steelmaker by output, plans to sell
7.5 billion  yuan  ($696 million) of convertible bonds on March 26
to fund expansion.  
 Bondholders will receive 9.7 call warrants for each five-
year bond they hold, the steelmaker said in a statement to
Shanghai's Stock Exchange today. Each warrant enables bondholders
to buy one share of Wuhan Steel at 10.2 yuan. The company, which
is based in Wuhan city in central Hubei province, said last year
it planned to raise 8 billion yuan from the debt sale.  
 Wuhan Steel is raising money to expand capacity of products
such as silicon steel that's used in transformers, air-
conditioners and lighting equipment. The sale proceeds will be
used to help fund four projects costing a total of 14.9 billion
yuan, the company said.  
 Wuhan Steel  shares fell 0.7 percent to 9.14 yuan in Shanghai
yesterday. The stock has more than tripled in the past 12 months.  
 Wuhan plans to build a silicon-steel  production line  capable
of making 200,000 metric tons a year, raising silicon-steel
capacity to 1.6 million tons, it said in July. The company will
also build a cold-rolled steel mill that produces 1.1 million
tons of tin-galvanized plate and coils used in automobiles and
home appliances.  
 Other projects include the building of a 2.66-million-ton
hot-rolled mill, and a 1-million-ton plant that produces high-
speed rails and H-beams, which are used in construction.  
 GF Securities Co. will manage the sale of the bonds, which
will carry an annual coupon of as much as 1.8 percent, Wuhan
Steel said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jianguo Jiang in  Shanghai  at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Kohn at 
 tkohn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        