-- M&T Bank's Merger Talks With Santander Are Said to Break Down
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-09-27T01:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/m-t-bank-s-merger-talks-with-santander-are-said-to-break-down.html
M&T Bank Corp.  and  Banco Santander
SA’s  merger talks broke down again, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The talks, which had focused on combining Buffalo, New
York-based M&T with Santander’s U.S. banking unit, fell apart
late last week over a disagreement about who would have control
of the combined institution, one of the people said, speaking on
condition of anonymity because the discussions are private.  Santander has been pursuing a merger of its Sovereign Bank
unit with M&T, while negotiating for Allied Irish Banks Plc’s
22.5 percent stake in the lender, other people with knowledge of
the matter have said. Together, M&T and Sovereign, which are
about the same size, would become the ninth-largest U.S. savings
institution by deposits.  Talks between Santander and M&T, led by Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Wilmers , 76, fell apart earlier this year over
the same matter and later restarted. Under a proposal recently
discussed with the U.S. Federal Reserve, Santander would have
eventually acquired a majority stake in M&T while leaving
Wilmers and his management team with some elements of control,
the people said.  While the parties aren’t talking now, they could restart
discussions as they did after negotiations broke down the first
time.  A spokesman for Santander, which is based in the Spanish
city of the same name, said he couldn’t comment, as did  Michael Zabel , a spokesman for M&T. The Wall Street Journal reported the
breakdown in talks Sept. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 