-- `Wall Street' Misses as Public Stresses Over Jobs Not Misdeeds
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-09-27T20:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/-wall-street-misses-as-moviegoers-stress-over-jobs-not-bankers-misdeeds.html
The public’s attention span may be
too short to help  Oliver Stone ’s “Wall Street: Money Never
Sleeps,” the sequel to the 1987 movie that popularized the
expression “Greed is good.”  The latest film, set in the 2008 financial crisis, opened
over the weekend with $19 million in U.S. and Canadian ticket
sales, short of the $23 million or more forecast by box-office
analysts. The returning crime drama “The Town,” by comparison,
took in $15.6 million.  Public frustration has moved on from Wall Street since the
crisis two years ago and now is focused on the pace of recovery
and unemployment. People are more concerned about making ends
meet than financiers’ misdeeds, said  Lee Ohanian , an economics
professor at the University of California at Los Angeles.  “The public in general has a very short memory,” Ohanian
said in an interview. “More concern has shifted from bankers to
what appears to be chronic problems in the economy and political
leaders.”  “Money Never Sleeps,” distributed by  News Corp. ’s
Twentieth Century Fox, was made for about $70 million, according
to the Internet Movie Database  website .  Michael Douglas , reprising his role as former corporate
raider Gordon Gekko, tries to rebuild his career after a prison
term for securities fraud. The villain this time is an
avaricious hedge fund manager played by  Josh Brolin , who
manipulates markets by planting false rumors about companies.  The debut missed the $23 million forecast of Box Office
Guru editor  Gitesh Pandya . It may generate about $70 million in
its domestic theater run and $150 million worldwide, said
Hollywood.com Box-Office analyst  Paul Dergarabedian .  Good Timing  “The opening wasn’t spectacular, but was decent,” Pandya
said in an interview. “The month is typically the weakest month
of the year for movies.”  The first “Wall Street,” which won a best-actor Oscar for
Douglas, opened in third place with $4.1 million in domestic
sales. It cost $15 million and took in $43.8 million at U.S. and
Canadian theaters, according to IMDB.com.  The timing of the original was a stroke of good fortune for
director Stone and the movie, which was inspired by earlier
scandals involving financiers including  Ivan Boesky .  The film was released on Dec. 11, 1987, less than two
months after the Oct. 19 crash that saw the Dow Jones industrial
average fall a record 23 percent in one day. The sequel hits
theaters amid a rally. The  S&P 500 Index  has gained 11 percent
since the end of the second quarter.  Madness ‘Bore Fruit’  Stone found Wall Street a different place when he returned
to research his new film. High-profile individuals had been
replaced as the movers and shakers by less visible hedge funds
and investment banks, Stone said in an interview with Bloomberg
TV. Still, the 2008 crisis had its roots in the earlier era,
Stone said.  “In 2008 it bore fruit, all the madness,” he said. “The
bankers became the Gekkos of the 1980s, and the high flyers
leveraged 40 to 1, 35 to 1.”  In the 1987 film, Gekko corrupts a young broker, played by
 Charlie Sheen , with the promise of money and power in return for
insider trading tips. Now an apparently reformed Gekko tries to
warn investors of the approaching 2008 crisis. He subsequently
teams with another young trader, played by  Shia LaBeouf,  to
expose Brolin as a crooked fund manager.  Markets climbed steadily higher after the 1987 crash and
the impact on most consumers was mild compared to the global
downturn that began two years ago, UCLA’s Ohanian said.  “Things aren’t returning to normal so quickly now,”
Ohanian said. “Today, people are still saying, ‘I want answers
to what went on and how it will be handled in the future.’”  Staying Power  Revenue was at the “high end” of studio expectations and
theaters near Wall Street in lower Manhattan sold out,  Chris Aronson , senior vice president of distribution at Fox, said
today in an interview. He said the adult appeal will translate
into staying power at the box office.  “The adult audience is not the audience that rushes out to
see a film, but they do keep coming,” Aronson said.  While unemployment and the slow recovery are still making
headlines, the public retains an appetite for beating up bankers
who bear some responsibility for the crisis and its aftermath,
said  Ruy Teixeira , a senior fellow at the Washington-based
Center for American Progress, a research organization led by
 John Podesta , an adviser to the Obama administration.  “That kind of thing just infuriates people,” Teixeira
said in an interview. “It doesn’t seem fair that they’re making
out like bandits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 