-- 3i Group Buys Mizuho Investment Management to Expand Into Debt Investments
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2010-09-27T10:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/3i-group-buys-mizuho-investment-management-to-expand-into-debt-investments.html
3i Group Plc , Europe’s biggest
publicly traded private equity firm, agreed to buy Mizuho
Investment Management U.K. Ltd. for 18.3 million pounds
($29 million) to expand its investments in corporate debt.  MIM oversees about 3.7 billion pounds of funds that invest
in senior and subordinated company debt, London-based 3i said in
a statement today.  Jeremy Ghose , MIM’s chief executive officer,
will become head of debt management at 3i, the firm said. 3i
will own 55 percent of the business, while MIM’s managers and
3i’s existing debt team will own the remainder.  “Today’s acquisition builds upon our debt management
capabilities and reinforces our strategy of growing 3i in areas
consistent with our investment expertise,” 3i CEO  Michael Queen 
said in the statement. “The expanded business will create an
enhanced debt platform to grow profitably into the future.”  3i, one of U.K.’s oldest private equity firms, is seeking
to bolster profit after the credit crisis slowed deal-making.
Queen, who became CEO in January last year, earlier this month
combined 3i’s leveraged buyout team with its growth capital unit
and said he would explore expanding into debt management.  “This move reflects 3i’s desire to reduce volatility in
its returns from year to year,”  Iain Scouller , an analyst at
Oriel Securities who rates the stock “buy,” wrote in a note to
clients. “Whilst it is good to see 3i positioning the business
for the future, we think the short-term driver of the share
price will be returns driven by realization activity and
earnings growth at the underlying investments.”  3i follows firms including New York-based Apollo Global
Management LLC, London-based Permira Advisers LLP and CVC
Capital Partners in investing in debt securities to diversify
their revenue streams. CVC’s debt-management unit, Cordatus, is
among lenders providing debt financing to fund the firm’s
acquisition of a stake in U.K. vending machine company Autobar
Group Ltd., which was announced on Aug. 9, CVC said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  