-- Swiss Stocks Fall; Actelion and Luxury-Goods Makers Lead Decline in Zurich
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-09-27T16:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/actelion-nestle-temenos-and-sonova-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks declined as losses in
Actelion Ltd. and luxury-goods makers offset gains in Transocean
Ltd. and  Petroplus Holdings AG   Actelion sank 8 percent after its clazosentan medicine
failed to meet the main goal in a clinical trial. Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA and Swatch Group AG slid more than 1
percent, while Transocean advanced 4.2 percent.  Petroplus
Holdings AG  gained 3.9 percent as it agreed to sell its stake in
PBF Energy Company LLC.  The  Swiss Market Index  fell 21.88, or 0.3 percent, to
6,338.89 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich after gaining as much
as 0.5 percent. The gauge is 3.2 percent down this year as
concern intensified that some European countries may struggle to
control their budget deficits, while the economic rebound in the
U.S. is slowing. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  also
declined 0.3 percent today.  “Sentiment toward equities remains neutral,”  Rishav Dev 
and  Shanthi Nair , London-based strategists at Nomura
International Plc, wrote in a note dated yesterday. “We think
it is difficult to find any indications of exuberance in the
market.”  Actelion  plummeted 8 percent to 40 Swiss francs.
Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company said its clazosentan
drug, designed to treat a life-threatening condition known as
aSAH, failed to produce a statistically significant reduction in
risk in patients who had suffered an aneurysmal subarachnoid
hemorrhage. The trial compared the drug with a placebo.  Richemont, Swatch  Richemont, the world’s largest jewelry maker, fell 1.8
percent to 45.40 francs. Swatch, the maker of Omega and Breguet
watches, dropped 1.2 percent to 359.60 francs.  Credit Suisse Group AG  lost 1.1 percent to 43.34 francs.
Morgan Stanley said Credit Agricole SA and Switzerland’s second-
biggest bank may have the lowest core Tier 1 ratios in 2012
under Basel III rules, after estimating the future capital
reserves of 12 European banks.  Aryzta AG  dropped 1.2 percent to 44.50 francs. The supplier
of bakery products to supermarkets and restaurants reported net
income that matched analysts’ forecasts. Kepler Capital Markets
said that “there are no signs that conditions are improving”
in the company’s markets.  Transocean, Petroplus  Transocean, the owner of the Deepwater Horizon offshore rig
that sank in April, surged 4.2 percent to 61.65 francs.  “The uptrend is unchanged intact and the stock remains an
outperformer,” Raphael Wilhelm, a technical analyst at Credit
Suisse Private Banking, wrote in a note.  Petroplus  climbed 3.9 percent to 11.79 francs. Europe’s
largest independent refiner said it has agreed to sell its 32.62
percent stake in PBF Energy Company to its partners in the
venture, Blackstone Group LP and First Reserve Corp. Petroplus
will receive $91 million from the sale, resulting in “a small
gain” on its investment, the company said.  Temenos Group AG  rose 0.7 percent to 29.35 francs. Barclays
Plc initiated coverage of the software company with an
“overweight” rating and a price estimate of 37 francs. The
brokerage said in a note that Temenos’s continued growth “is
partly driven by the ongoing theme of increased usage of third-
party software in the banking sector, especially now that
regulatory changes are putting more focus on the banks’ cost
efficiencies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 