-- Macy's Markets Elvis, Blackhawks in Hometowns to Revive Sales
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2010-09-27T20:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/macy-s-markets-elvis-blackhawks-in-hometown-shops-to-revive-holiday-sales.html
Macy’s Inc.  is touting Elvis
Christmas tree ornaments in Tennessee and Blackhawks decorations
in Illinois ahead of the holidays, tailoring goods for local
markets to squeeze more out of its biggest shopping season.  The second-largest department-store chain in the U.S. is
introducing 2,200 local-themed tree ornaments as part of its
“My Macy’s” program, an initiative that began in 2008 to
better customize merchandise year-round. Some 1,600 district
managers who oversee goods categories in no more than 12 stores
each selected the items.  “My Macy’s” may add as much as 3 percentage points to the
chain’s holiday sales at stores open at least a year, which will
probably increase as much as 5 percent in 2010 after three years
of declines, according to  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst at
 Citigroup Inc.  in New York. Focusing on merchandise tied to the
Chicago Blackhawks hockey team in Illinois stores spurs
purchases by making Macy’s more relevant, Chief Executive
Officer  Terry Lundgren  said.  “We had to do something different,” Lundgren, 58, said.
“I wanted to maximize the business on a local level, but how do
you do that today with 810 Macy’s stores?” He expects the
effort to help accelerate sales in the second half of this year,
which he forecasts to rise as much as 3.5 percent.  Lundgren hatched the “My Macy’s” idea when consumer
spending began slowing three years ago. Since then, the company
has directed tens of thousands of specially chosen items to
local markets, said  Jim Sluzewski , a Macy’s spokesman.  Identifying Demand  Macy’s identified demand for size-11 women’s shoes in
Chicago, formal wear for boys in Salt Lake City and  Imusa 
cookware popular with Latin American cooks in Brooklyn, New
York.  Carolina Sekkel, an Arlington, Virginia-based district
planner for 12 stores, highlighted demand for separately sold
pieces of women’s suits in Washington, D.C. That has helped
generate “double-digit” sales gains in percentage terms, she
said. The separately sold suits allow shoppers to mix and match
clothing and buy off-the-rack without having to do alterations.  Lundgren, whose department-store chain trails only  Sears
Holdings Corp.  in sales, has his work cut out for him after
consumer confidence slumped in September, signaling shoppers may
hold back on purchases for Christmas. Macy’s is trying to
counter the drop by wooing customers with holiday items
fashioned to their tastes, such as Scandinavian baking tools in
Minneapolis and locally made  Sanders chocolate  candies in
Michigan.  Local Demand  Tapping local demand more adroitly can generate sales
throughout the store by developing customer loyalty and boosting
frequency of visits, said  Wendy Liebmann , CEO of WSL Strategic
Retail in New York. It helps profit by reducing irrelevant and
excess inventory that then has to be discounted or shipped to
another market, allowing “My Macy’s” to “punch above its
weight,” she said.  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati,  fell  2 cents to $22.73 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have gained 36 percent this year, compared with an 11 percent
rise for the 31-member  Standard & Poor’s  500 Retailing Index.  When Lundgren created the “My Macy’s” plan, he drew on
his experience as a china buyer for the former Bullock’s chain
in the 1970s. He said he was so close to the 18 southern
California stores he supplied, that he would transport sets of
Lenox plates in his car trunk to locations that ran low.  May Acquisition  The executive was named CEO of Macy’s predecessor,
Federated Department Stores Inc., in 2003. Two years later, he
spearheaded the $17 billion acquisition of May Department Stores
Co., which doubled the size of the company, creating a coast-to-
coast department-store chain.  In stages during 2008 and 2009, he consolidated seven
regional buying offices into one national buying center and
divided up the company’s store locations into 69 local
districts. Today, district managers oversee merchandize in
almost half as many stores as they used to, giving them more
time to visit each and interact with shoppers, Lundgren said.  Sales clerks record local demand from shoppers in log books
to pass on to the district managers, who then electronically
make about 1,000 requests to the main office each week. The
office approves about 90 percent of the pitches, usually within
seven days, Sluzewski said.  Initially, top-level buyers resisted what the district
managers wanted to buy, Lundgren said. He also faced skepticism
that a single buying office could supply everyone’s needs.
Implementing the divisional consolidation last year led to about
1,900 job cuts.  ‘Cultural Shift’  “This was a major cultural shift for the company,”
Lundgren said. “The hardest part was that not everyone could
come along.”  The ones who are still around have embraced their buying
power. In Orlando, Florida, shoppers are looking for twin
bedding at stores near condominium rentals in coastal areas and
Latin American visitors want Nespresso coffee machines between
October and Lent, said Meredith Mescher, a district merchant for
home goods.  “You can make a decision in a snap,” Mescher said. “It
tells our sales associates, there is someone here to help them
drive sales and, at the end of the day, this is what it is
about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cotten Timberlake  in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  