-- Thailand Lifts Growth Forecast for Third Time as Export Growth Accelerates
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2010-09-27T07:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/thailand-lifts-growth-forecast-for-third-time-as-export-growth-accelerates.html
Thailand’s Finance Ministry raised
its 2010 economic growth forecast for the third time in six
months after exports surged in the first half of the year and
local demand recovered.  Gross domestic product may expand 7.3 percent to 7.8
percent in 2010, with a mid-point forecast of 7.5 percent,  Satit Rungkasiri , head of the ministry’s Fiscal Policy Office, said
today. The ministry in June raised the estimate to as much as 6
percent from a March projection of as much as 5 percent.  Surging overseas sales of electronics and automobiles
helped Thailand’s economy expand 9.1 percent in the second
quarter, exceeding economists’ forecasts. Satit warned that
growth will slow in the second half as the baht strengthens
against the dollar and the economic recovery falters in the U.S.
and Europe, Thailand’s biggest export markets.  “The high GDP growth forecast for the full year mainly
comes from the excellent performance in the first half,” said
 Pimonwan Mahujchariyawong , an economist at Kasikorn Research Ltd.
in Bangkok. “But, the slowing global economy and the baht
strength will weigh on the economy in the second half.”  Thailand’s economy will expand 6 percent in the third
quarter and 3.3 percent in the last three months of 2010, Satit
said. Exports are expected to expand by 25 percent this year and
imports may grow 35.6 percent, the finance ministry estimates.  “Exports remain the key driver for the economy as they
account for 60 percent of GDP,” Satit said at a briefing in
Bangkok. “If economies of our trading partners slow, we will be
affected. But, the effect will be less than before because we
have diversified our  exports  to new markets.”  Export Growth Slows  Thailand’s exports increased 23.9 percent to $16.5 billion
in August from a year earlier, after rising 20.6 percent in July
and 46.3 percent in June, customs data show.  The baht may strengthen to 30 per dollar by the end of this
year, Satit said. The central bank’s  benchmark interest rate  may
rise to 2 percent over the same period and to 3 percent next
year, from 1.75 percent now, Satit said.  The baht has advanced 8.8 percent this year against the
dollar, the second best-performer among major currencies in Asia
excluding the yen, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency gained 0.3 percent to 30.59 as of 12:12 p.m. in Bangkok
and touched 30.58, the strongest level since August 1997.  “The impact will be felt in coming months,” Kasikorn
Research’s Pimonwan said. “We don’t see it now because export
orders are booked in advance, but new orders may suffer from
price competitiveness. If the baht strengthens beyond 30 and the
global economy remains weak, export growth in the fourth quarter
may be lower than 10 percent.”  Rising Local Demand  The Bank of Thailand predicted in July that Southeast
Asia’s largest economy after Indonesia will grow as much as 7.5
percent, which would be the fastest pace since 1995. The bank
said on Aug. 31 the economy “still has growth momentum” in the
second half as improving local demand will help offset slowing
export growth.  Thailand’s consumer confidence climbed to a 28-month high
in August, signaling a recovery in domestic spending, the
University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said this month.  Local consumption will “recover strongly in the fourth
quarter and help support growth,” Thanavath Phonvichai, an
economist at the university, said on Sept. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  