-- AirTran Trader Wins 14-Fold Profit on Calls Bought Before Deal
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-09-27T20:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/airtran-trader-wins-14-fold-profit-on-calls-bought-before-deal.html
An investor who bought 759 bullish
 AirTran Holdings Inc.  options last week captured a 14-fold gain
today after Southwest Airlines Co. agreed to buy the company.  Trading of November $5 calls on Sept. 21 was triple the
four-week daily average for all AirTran contracts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The calls, which changed hands for
15 cents, surged to open at $2.15 today. AirTran rose 61 percent
to $7.34 as of 4 p.m. in New York. This was the first close
above $5 for the Orlando, Florida-based carrier since June.  “It does appear suspicious,” said  Henry Schwartz ,
president of Trade Alert LLC, a New York-based provider of
options-market analytics. “Somebody may have had some
information that something was in the works.”  Christi McNeill, a spokeswoman for Southwest, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment. Christopher White,
a spokesman for AirTran, didn’t return a call for comment.  John Nester  of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission declined
to comment. The SEC polices the options market to ensure
investors aren’t engaging in insider trading.  Southwest said today that it would buy AirTran for about
$1.4 billion in cash and stock, giving it access to Atlanta, the
world’s busiest airport. Southwest, based in Dallas, is the
largest U.S. low-fare carrier. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and
Dahlman Rose & Co. served as financial advisers to Southwest.
Vinson & Elkins LLP acted as legal counsel.  Excluding commissions, buying the contracts at 15 cents
each on Sept. 21 would have cost about $11,385, compared with
about $163,000 to sell them at the open of U.S. exchanges today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Call options that
convey the right to acquire shares for a given price by a
certain date usually offer higher returns than stock to traders
speculating on takeovers.  “This call buying is suspicious to me or very, very
lucky,” said  Ophir Gottlieb , a trader and head of client
services at Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-based provider of
options market analytics. “The total open interest in all
November options before this trade was five contracts.”  Open interest refers to the number of existing contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 