-- Take Millionaires Over Billionaires in NFL War: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-09-27T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/take-millionaires-over-billionaires-in-nfl-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
Whenever the billionaires and
millionaires of sports collide, flanked by seasoned masters of
law and spin, the prevailing sentiment holds that there is no
side for which to cheer.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  The National Football League is headed for a lockout after
the season. I’m pulling for the players, who operate under the
most onerous  collective bargaining agreement  of the four major
U.S. sports leagues. Most athletes in the National Basketball
Association, National Hockey League and  Major League Baseball 
have guaranteed contracts, meaning they get paid no matter what,
even if their bodies are rendered too broken to play.  Most in the NFL, though, don’t enjoy the same guarantee,
which is why every season you’re treated to so many contract
holdouts. NFL players covet every guaranteed penny because it
might be the only money they ever see.  Professional football isn’t a contact sport. It’s a
collision sport. It’s a violent game with physical consequences
that usually outlive playing days. No player goes into a
baseball, hockey or basketball game thinking their careers might
end on the next play. Lots of NFL players think that way because
they have to. Just like that, an NFL player could be an ex-NFL
player without anything arriving in the mailbox on the first and
15th of every month.  You have to laugh every time an NFL team announces that
Player X has signed some gargantuan contract. Ignore those
zeroes; they’re meaningless. There’s only one question to ask
whenever a football player inks a new contract: How much is
guaranteed? That’s why New York Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis
used whatever leverage he had, including a training-camp
holdout, to force team owner  Woody Johnson  to up his offer.  Short Gain  It worked. Good for Revis. Unlike Johnson, he won’t benefit
for decades to come from the luxury suites and seat-license
revenue generated by New Meadowlands Stadium, which one day will
have a naming-rights partner.  That will mean even more money for Johnson, more for the
other owners, a number of whom show up on  Forbes  magazine’s list
of the richest Americans. Seattle’s  Paul Allen  was on the list
at No. 17. The  Microsoft Corp.  co-founder was joined by Miami’s
 Stephen Ross , Tampa’s  Malcolm Glazer ,  Jerry Jones  of the
Cowboys,  Robert Kraft  of the Patriots,  Robert McNair  of the
Texans,  Jim Irsay  of the Colts,  Arthur Blank  of the Falcons,
 Jeffrey Lurie  of the Eagles and  William Ford Sr . of the Lions.  When the time comes, when you hear about players wanting
more of the NFL’s $8 billion in annual revenue, remember these
are the folks crying poverty.  Partnership at War  NFL executives and team owners love referring to their
 business relationship  with the players as a partnership. It
isn’t. It’s us against them.  Get this: Owners might end the players’ health insurance
should the labor contract expire without an agreement. Some
partnership, huh?  “If we do not reach agreement on a new CBA by March, we
will have to make a decision on health care benefits for current
players,” the NFL said in a statement, referring to the
collective bargaining agreement.  That’s how you treat a foe, not a partner, folks. Why
employ a win-now mentality during negotiations when the, uh,
partnership, will outlive any animosity born at the bargaining
table? A few more bucks, maybe.  Management has made no secret of its desire for an 18-game
regular season. Owners sell the idea, at least in part, by
telling us that customers abhor preseason games and that they
would rather have more football that actually counts.  Stop Caring  Forget, for a minute, the significant health implications
of two more games, which I’ve written about. Let’s focus,
instead, on the laughable notion that owners care about what the
fans want.  If caring about the customer motivated decision-making,
then owners during difficult economic times would suspend the
television-blackout rule, which states that a team’s game can’t
be broadcast locally if it isn’t sold out 72 hours before
kickoff. The rule is designed to prevent folks from just
watching on TV, leaving stadiums empty.  The finger-pointing is just beginning. It will grow, all
right, in frequency and intensity.  In times of labor turmoil fan animosity usually is aimed at
the players, who, helmets and face masks aside, are the
collective face of the sport. Yes, athletes, football players
included, make a lot of money.  When the football mud flies, though, just remember the
owners make more. Lots more.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  