-- Takefuji May Settle Credit-Default Swaps at Auction, BNP Paribas Says
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2010-09-27T07:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/takefuji-may-settle-credit-default-swaps-at-auction-bnp-paribas-says.html
Takefuji Corp. , Japan’s third-
largest consumer lender, may follow  Aiful Corp . and Japan
Airlines Corp. to settle credit-default swaps at auction if it
files for bankruptcy protection, according to BNP Paribas SA.  A regional committee would decide on whether to hold an
auction to “settle the default swaps” within 40 hours of a
request to determine a credit event, said  Hisayoshi Nogawa , a
strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd., citing rules
from the International Swaps and Derivatives Association.  A net $811 million of swaps on Takefuji were outstanding as
of Sept. 17, according to Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. in
New York. Five-year contracts to protect Takefuji debt were
quoted at 8,802 basis points on Sept. 24, compared with 4,608
basis points on Sept. 13, according to CMA prices.  Japan’s consumer lenders are battling to survive after a
2006 crackdown on coercive lending practices and tighter
borrowing laws forced them to repay overcharged interest.
Takefuji has 433.6 billion yen ($5.1 billion) of liabilities and
will file for bankruptcy protection, Tokyo Shoko Research Ltd.
said in a statement today.  “We assume a potential loss rate of between 80 percent and
85 percent for creditors,” depending on how much Takefuji has
to pay back in overcharged interest,  Junichi Shimizu , a credit
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo, wrote in a note to clients
today.  Takefuji rejected a report in the Nikkei newspaper that
it’s preparing to file for bankruptcy and said it’s
“considering and implementing various measures right now to
revitalize our business.”  Suspended From Trading  “We will disclose any further developments as soon as
possible,” the consumer lender said in a statement to the Tokyo
Stock Exchange today.  The company’s  shares  were suspended from trading until 9
minutes before the exchange closed for the day and were untraded
as sell orders exceeded bids.  Takefuji has 91.4 billion yen of bonds outstanding,
including $645 million of 9.2 percent bonds due April 15, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its debt obligations -- known as a credit event --
less the value of the defaulted debt. They typically rise as
investor confidence deteriorates. A basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yusuke Miyazawa  in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net ; 