-- Takefuji Files for Bankruptcy Protection After Refunds
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2010-09-28T11:35:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/takefuji-said-to-file-for-bankruptcy-today-amid-rising-interest-refunds.html
Takefuji Corp.  filed for bankruptcy
protection, becoming Japan’s biggest casualty of a four-year
crackdown on coercive lending to consumers.  Takefuji listed 433.6 billion yen ($5.1 billion) in
liabilities in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange today.
Director  Junichi Yoshida  took over as president from  Akira Kiyokawa  and Executive Vice President  Taketeru Takei , son of
founder  Yasuo Takei , also resigned following a board meeting
today, the statement said.  The lender, founded in 1966, aims to restructure its
business as it doesn’t have enough cash to repay borrower claims
of overpaid interest that are estimated to exceed 1 trillion yen.
Rivals Aiful Corp.,  Promise Co.  and Acom Co. may face an
increase in claims in the wake of Takefuji’s bankruptcy.  “Debtors request refunds not only from Takefuji, but from
all their lenders,”  Takehito Yamanaka , an analyst at MF Global
Equity, said in a report before the filing to the Tokyo District
Court. “Claims may increase temporarily in the next couple of
months as lawyers gather debtors.”  Takefuji’s failure, the second-biggest in Japan this year
after  Japan Airlines Corp. , comes three months after a law went
into effect prohibiting consumer lenders from charging interest
higher than 20 percent or extending loans that exceed a third of
a borrower’s annual income.  The company’s shares will be delisted from the Tokyo Stock
Exchange on Oct. 29. They tumbled 32 percent to 116 yen at the
close of trading before the bankruptcy filing, the maximum daily
decline allowed by the bourse.  Find Sponsor  It will take about four months to determine Takefuji’s
creditors, Eiichi Obata, a court-appointed lawyer, said at a
news conference in Tokyo. Administrators will select financial
advisers as soon as possible to find a sponsor for the company’s
rehabilitation within a year, he said.  Financial Services Minister  Shozaburo Jimi  said the
collapse will have no major effect on Japan’s banking system. He
said earlier today that the banking regulator will examine the
burden on consumer lenders stemming from their interest refunds.  “Consumer lenders’ business environment is in general very
severe, and at the same time they play a vital role with about
15 million healthy borrowers,” Jimi said.  Takefuji has received 171.3 billion yen in claims of
overcharged interest from 113,000 customers -- figures that
could swell to at least 1 trillion yen from more than a million
clients, Obata said. Lawsuits claiming overcharged interest cost
the industry 4.4 trillion yen, according to the Japan Financial
Services Association.  Lower-Income Clients  Consumer lenders’ customers typically take out loans to
cover living expenses, with refinancing existing debt cited as
the second-most common reason, according to a survey conducted
by the association in December.  Fifty-three percent of individuals who borrow from the
lenders have annual incomes of 3 million yen or less, the survey
showed. Half of those borrowers may be unable to get additional
loans from consumer finance companies because of the cap that
limits debt to a third of annual income, the lobbying group said.  Takefuji’s demise may worsen household sentiment, which
fell to a four-month low in August on growing evidence that
Japan’s economic recovery is stalling.  “The fall of Takefuji, while having minimal impact on
Japan’s financial system, would be gloomy news for consumers on
the street and fuel bleak prospects for Japan’s economy,” said
 Yasuhide Yajima , an economist at NLI Research Institute in Tokyo.  Megabank Backers  Lenders backed by large banking groups such as Promise --
21 percent owned by  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.  -- and
Acom, a unit of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , have better
prospects of weathering new regulations as they benefit from
funding and loan guarantees, according to analysts and investors.  “It’s a matter of time before Japanese megabanks review
consumer-lending businesses again and determine whether to
continue holding them as a source of income or withdraw,”
Yajima said.  Acom, the country’s biggest consumer lender by market value,
slid 1.3 percent today and Promise, the second largest, fell 0.9
percent. Aiful, which avoided collapse by restructuring its debt
last December, lost 3.3 percent.  Yasuo Takei founded Takefuji in a 13.2 square meter (142
square foot) Tokyo office with four employees. He became one of
Japan’s richest people making unsecured loans through the
company’s nationwide “Yen Shop” outlets and automated machines.
Commercials featuring dancers became a television fixture.  Since Takei’s death in 2006, the company has cut staff by
33 percent and now employs about 2,000 people at 786 shops as it
lowers costs and sells assets to cope with losses. He died the
country’s second-wealthiest man, according to Forbes magazine.  Takei stepped down as chairman in December 2003 after
admitting to a series of telephone wiretaps of journalists, for
which he received a suspended jail sentence a year later. In
2005, he complied with a court order to divest to less than 25
percent his family-held stake in the firm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takako Taniguchi  in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 