-- Malaysia to Sell Government's Stake in Bakun Hydroelectric Dam to Sarawak
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2010-09-27T07:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/malaysia-to-sell-government-s-stake-in-bakun-hydroelectric-dam-to-sarawak.html
The Malaysian cabinet agreed to
sell the federal government’s stake in Southeast Asia’s biggest
hydroelectric dam project to Sarawak to help spur development in
the state on Borneo Island, two ministers said.  “If we are going to take the supply to Peninsular Malaysia,
they won’t have enough energy supply,” Second Finance Minister
 Ahmad Husni Hanadzlah  told reporters today in Kuala Lumpur.
“Therefore, we have agreed to expand our existing power plants
here.”  The 2,400-megawatt Bakun hydroelectric project, which will
flood an area the size of Singapore, was originally intended to
help supply power to Peninsular Malaysia when work began in 1994.
Plans for a subsea cable link were scrapped to cut costs when
the project was resurrected after the 1997-1998 Asian financial
crisis.  Sarawak has “ambitious” development plans and requires
the energy, Ahmad Husni said. Projects, including a $1 billion
joint venture smelter by Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd, aim to tap
Bakun for electricity.  The Sarawak state government has offered 6 billion ringgit
($1.9 billion), the Bernama state news service reported on Sept.
26, citing  Abdul Taib Mahmud , chief minister of the eastern
state. The central government is estimated to have incurred
costs exceeding 7.3 billion ringgit, the report said.  “Both the federal and state government will hold further
discussions on the price and other things,” Deputy Prime
Minister  Muhyiddin Yassin  told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today,
adding that a further announcement would be made soon.  The project was first considered in the 1980s by the federal
government to diversify the country’s power sources.  About 300 megawatts of hydropower from the first turbine are
expected to be generated by the middle of next year. It will run
at full capacity when all eight turbines are in place by 2012,
Bernama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Manirajan Ramasamy  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  