-- Anglo Irish Senior Bonds Fall on Bets Investors Will Share Bailout Burden
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2010-09-27T13:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/anglo-irish-senior-bonds-fall-for-sixth-day-on-bets-investors-face-losses.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  government-
guaranteed senior bonds fell for a sixth day as investors
wagered they’ll be forced to share the cost of bailing out the
nationalized lender with taxpayers.  Anglo Irish’s floating-rate notes due 2013 fell to 83.1
cents on the euro from 95.8 a week ago and its 2014 securities
dropped to 81.4 cents from 99.2 cents on Sept. 17, according to
so-called fair value prices on Bloomberg. The notes are covered
bonds supported by real-estate loans and the borrower’s pledge
to pay, as well as government backing, which expires at the end
of this month.  The Sunday Times reported yesterday that Ireland’s
government may seek to buy back Anglo Irish debt at a discount
or swap it for equity in the new asset recovery bank it’s
creating. The final cost of the bailout, which has already cost
Ireland 22.9 billion euros ($31 billion), is expected to be
announced this week as the government seeks to quell concern it
will require funds from the European Union.  “It’s all about whether Ireland can afford the bailout of
Anglo Irish,” said  Tom Jenkins , a banking analyst at Jeffries
International Ltd. in London. “There are also the other banks
that need cash and all the wider political and economic issues
the country has.”  Billy Murphy , an outside spokesman for Anglo Irish,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Moody’s Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service  downgraded  Anglo Irish’s covered
bond ratings today to A2, five levels above junk, from Aa2,
citing concern that the bank won’t be able to ensure timely
payments on the notes. The New York-based firm also cut the
bank’s senior unguaranteed rating by three levels to Baa3 from
A3 and its subordinated grade six levels to Caa1 from Ba1.  The cost of salvaging the Dublin-based lender may be 35
billion euros, about 20 percent of the nation’s gross domestic
product, according to Standard & Poor’s, an estimate the
government contests.  Ireland’s Finance Ministry said it hasn’t “adopted” the
debt exchange discussed in the Sunday Times article, while Dick
Roche, a junior minister in the government, said that
“burning” bondholders “would be an absolute, utter
disaster.” The government has said on other occasions that
there will be no default on Anglo Irish’s senior bonds.  Holders of other banks’ subordinated bonds have been forced
to take losses on the debt, such as in the U.K.’s
nationalization of Bradford & Bingley Plc in 2008, while holders
of the housing lender’s senior and covered bonds were made
whole.  Subordinated Bonds  The company’s subordinated, lower Tier 2 bonds due 2014
fell 2 cents to 31 cents on the euro, according to Jeffries
prices on Bloomberg.  The cost of credit-default swaps to insure the senior debt
of Anglo Irish rose 208 basis points from a week earlier to a
record closing price of 959.5 basis points on Sept. 23,
according to data provider CMA. The contracts, which have more
than doubled since July, today cost 935 basis points, CMA prices
show.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a credit-default swap contract protecting 10 million euros of
debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  