-- Mantega Says Brazil to Buy `Excess Dollars' Amid Worldwide `Currency War'
-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-09-27T23:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/mantega-says-brazil-to-buy-all-excess-dollars-in-bid-to-curb-real-s-gain.html
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the government will buy all “excess dollars” in
the market to curb the real’s appreciation as governments around
the world engage in a “currency war.”  Brazil won’t allow the real to appreciate excessively as
other countries weaken their currencies to gain market share for
exporters, Mantega said today at an event in Sao Paulo.  “We are experiencing a currency war,” Mantega said.
“Devaluing currencies artificially is a global strategy.”  The real has gained 35 percent against the U.S. dollar
since the beginning of 2009, making Brazilian exports more
expensive in dollar terms and cutting into profits for
exporters. The comments today echo those Mantega made Sept. 15,
when he pledged that Brazil is “not going to lose this game.”  Mantega also said today that Brazil is considering new
taxes on short-term, fixed-income investments, without providing
details. Brazil doesn’t plan to tax long-term investments, he
said.  The currency was little changed today at 1.7106 per U.S.
dollar. It has posted gains for six consecutive weeks, the
longest winning streak in 11 months.  The yield on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
11.57 percent.  “We’re already buying a bigger volume of currency -- we’ll
keep buying,” Mantega told reporters. “We’ll buy any excess
dollars in the market.”  Last week, central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  said
his institution is prepared to buy or sell dollars in the
foreign exchange market to manage liquidity levels, adding that
excessive capital inflows represent an “important risk”
throughout the global economy.  Brazil said Sept. 20 it will use its 17.9 billion reais
($10.5 billion) sovereign-wealth fund to buy dollars in the spot
market. The fund will be managed by the Treasury and operated by
the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joao Oliveira  in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  