-- Apple, Express's Plaid, Hard Rock Cafe, Sucre: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2010-09-27T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/apple-express-hard-rock-cafe-sucre-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc.  has filed an application
for an electronic camera with an imaging sensor that is suited
for the coverage of a zoom lens.  Application  20100238344 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Sept. 23, is for a device with
what it calls a “redirector” to shift the spread of the flash
coverage depending on the condition of the scene as affected by
a zoom lens.  The redirector has the ability to configure the device’s
flash be changing an angle of the light’s energy profile.  According to the application, the technology can be used
with portable devices.  Apple applied for the patent in March 2009 with the
assistance of  Blakely Sokoloff Taylor & Zafman LLP  of Los
Angeles.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Court Finds Express’s Plaid Designs Not Protectable by Copyright  Express LLC’s copyright infringement suit against Forever
21 Inc. was dismissed by a federal judge who said he saw no
instance of infringement.  The suit relates to Los Angeles-based Forever 21’s alleged
copying a line of men’s plaid shorts and infringing the trade
dress of a zip-front men’s jacket.  Express, of Columbus Ohio, sued Forever 21 in federal court
in Los Angeles in June 2009, claiming the copyrights for four
different plaids had been infringed, in addition to the jacket’s
trade dress.  In his Sept. 16 order, U.S. District Judge Otis D. Wright
II dismissed the case, and said Forever 21 and its suppliers
could recover the costs of the litigation. In a Sept. 2 order,
he said he was not persuaded that the plaids could be protected
by copyright after he heard Express designer Michael Tower
testify that he took the plaids from some other source and
directed the operator of a computer-assisted design program to
create the plaid garments at issue.  Although Tower said he then selected the colors in which
the plaids would be made, the judge said Express couldn’t prove
‘that any of the plaids incorporate sufficient original
creativity to qualify for copyright protection.” He also found
that the design of the disputed jacket wasn’t a sufficient
indicator of its source to qualify for protection under “trade
dress” provisions of trademark law.  The case is Express LLC v. Forever 21 Inc., 2:09-cv-04514-
ODW-VBJ, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Los Angeles).  Taiwan Copyright Contest Winner’s Design Itself Infringed  The winner of a design competition for a poster promoting
copyright awareness in Taiwan lost the prize when officials
discovered his design was copied from another artist, Agence
France-Presse reported.  A commuter saw a billboard with the winning poster design
in a Taipei subway station and recognized it as the work of a
Dutch artist, according to AFP.  The artist, identified only by his family name of Wu, had
to return his 50,000 Taiwan dollar ($1,600) prize money, AFP
reported.  Contest officials warned Wu that should the Dutch artist
decided to sue for copyright infringement, he could be hit with
a three-year jail term and a 750,000 Taiwan dollar fine,
according to AFP.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Spiegel & Utrera Sued AmeriLaw Group for Infringing Trademark  Spiegel & Utrera PA , a law firm based in Miami, sued
another firm in the same city for trademark infringement.  The dispute is related to the Spiegel firm’s
“AmeriLawyer” service mark. It used www.amerilawyer.com for
its Internet domain name.  AmeriLaw Group LLC of Miami’s name is “confusingly
similar” to the Spiegel firm’s mark, according to the complaint
filed Sept. 23 in federal court in Miami.  The Spiegel firm claims the public assumes falsely that an
association exists between the two entities and that further
confusion results from AmeriLaw’s advertisements on Spanish-
language radio broadcasts in the area.  AmeriLaw didn’t respond to a cease-and-desist letter sent
in April, according to court papers, and continues to use the
name.  The Spiegel firm asked the court to order the other Miami
firm to quit using “AmeriLaw” and for awards of AmeriLaw’s
profits attributable to the alleged infringement. The firm also
requested money damages and asked that they and the award of
profits both be tripled.  Additionally, the firm asked for awards of litigation costs
and attorney fees.  Tamara Klopenstein of Spiegel & Utrera represents her firm.  The case is Spiegel & Utrerea PA v. AmeriLaw Group LLC,
1:10-cv-22348-JAP, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (Miami).  Hard Rock Sues Time Warner, Vegas Hotel Over ‘Rehab’ Show  A  Time Warner Inc.  unit and the operators of the Las Vegas
Hard Rock Hotel & Casino were sued in a trademark case relating
to the “Rehab” reality television series.  Hard Rock Cafe International Inc., the Orlando, Florida-
based owner of the Hard Rock Cafe trademarks, filed suit in
federal court in Manhattan Sept. 21 seeking cancellation of the
Las Vegas hotel’s license to use the marks.  The trademark owner objects to how the marks are used in
connection with the “ Rehab ” show, which runs on Turner’s TruTV
channel.  According to the Rehab website, the Sunday daytime parties
at the Las Vegas hotel’s pool have “grown into a destination
with weekend revelers in the thousands.” The weekly party
includes “the beautiful, the tattooed, the rich, the famous,
large and small,” the party organizers say on the website.  The trademark owners claim the behavior shown in the
television program is “entirely at odds with the brand image of
the Hard Rock marks.”  The show portrays the hotel as “a destination that revels
in drunken debauchery, acts of vandalism, sexual harassment,
violence, criminality and a host of other behavior that most of
the members of the general consuming public” would find
objectionable, according to court papers.  Included in the complaint a segments of letters and e-mails
the trademark owners say they received from potential customers
who said they had either seen the television program or one of
the actual pool parties. In one of them, the writer said that
after watching an episode of the reality program “I have to say
that my group of people will never ever stay at the Hard Rock
again.”  A  number of videos  that posters claim were shot at various
Rehab Las Vegas events are posted on Google Inc.’s video-sharing
website. Most show women in bikini bathing suits and men in swim
trunks standing knee deep in a swimming pool, holding drinks in
their hands.  The trademark owners also object to some unauthorized
domain name registrations and to sub-licenses they say the hotel
group granted to a Cherokee-run hotel and casino in Tulsa,
Oklahoma, and to a Pueblo of an Isleta-run hotel and casino in
Albuquerque, New Mexico.  All the actions to which the trademark owners object breach
the contract, according to court papers. The trademark owners
asked the court to declare the trademark license is terminated
and to bar any future use of its marks by the defendants. they
also requested it be transferred the domain names to which it
objected, and asked for orders for the destruction of all
offending promotional material.  They also asked the judge to award them attorney fees,
litigation costs, and money damages.  The hotel organizers of the Rehab event didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  The trademark owners are represented by Bruce R. Ewing,
 Brooke E. Pietrzak , and  Gianfranco G. Mitrione  of Minneapolis-
based  Dorsey & Whitney LLP .  The case is Hard Rock Face International (USA) Inc., v.
Hard Rock Hotel Holdings LLC, 1:10-cv-07244-UA, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  MGA Claims Former Licensee Using Trademarks Without Permission  MGA Entertainment Inc., the maker of Bratz dolls, sued a
former licensee for trademark infringement.  Hong Kong-based Playmind Group’s National Products unit is
accused of making and selling toys under MGA’s “Little Tikes”
brand after their license agreement ended in November 2006.  These items bearing the trademarks without authorization
confuse the public and compete unfairly with MGA, according to
the complaint filed Sept. 22 in federal court in Los Angeles.  MGA, of Van Nuys, California, asked the court to order the
Hong Kong company to halt its alleged infringement, and for an
award of profits attributable to the alleged infringement. It
also seeks money damages and asked that they be tripled and that
extra damages be added to punish the defendant for its actions.  The company also asked for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  MGA was sued by  Mattel Inc.  in California state court
Sept. 1 as part of ongoing litigation between the companies over
the Bratz doll. In that suit, El Segundo-based Mattel accused
MGA of illegally transferring more than $400 million in efforts
to prevent Mattel from collecting the money in a possible future
judgment against MGA.  That case is Mattel Inc., v. MGA Entertainment Inc.,
BC444819, Superior Court of California (Los Angeles).  In the suit against the Hong Kong toymaker, MGA is
represented by  Craig E. Holden  and  Thomas S. Kidde  of Los
Angeles-based  Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP .  The case is MGA Entertainment Inc., v. National Products
Ltd., 2:10-cv-07083-JFW-PJW, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  Sucre is Sour on Devil in an Apron’s Domain Name Choice  Sucre LLC , a New Orleans confectioner, sued a Rocklin,
California-based e-business for trademark infringement.  Devil in an Apron Inc., of Rocklin, California, is accused
of selling merchandise in the same classes as Sucre’s through a
website the New Orleans company claims infringes its trademarks.  Sucre said to no avail it’s twice told Devil in an Apron
that its “ sucre7.com ” domain name infringes, according to the
complaint filed Sept. 23 in federal court in New Orleans.
“Sucre” is the French word for sugar.  Sucre7.com sells such products as the “ bay of pigs ,”
which is a Calvados-flavored caramel filling wrapped in bacon,
formed into a cigar shape and coated with single-estate
chocolate. Sucre, which sells its goods through a brick-and-
mortar storefront and through the www.shopsucre.com website,
offers  French-style macaroons  and  boxed chocolates , including
one candy flavored with New Orleans chicory coffee.  The New Orleans company said it never authorized the use of
its Sucre trademark, and it’s damaged by Devil in an Apron’s
actions. The consuming public is likely to assume falsely an
association between the two companies, according to court
papers.  It asked the court to bar the California company’s use of
“sucre” in any way that could cause consumer confusion. It
also requested orders for the destruction of all infringing
products and promotional material, and immediate removal of the
sucre7.com domain name from Internet access.  Additionally Sucre asked for money damages, and the
California company’s revenue attributable to the alleged
infringement. It also requested that the damages or profits be
tripled, and that it be awarded litigation costs and attorney
fees.  Sucre is represented by  William J. Kelly III  of New
Orleans-based  Kelly Stacy & Rita LLC .  The case is Sucre LLC v. Shea, 2:10-cv-03240-LMA-ALC, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 