-- Apple Takes Ride on Nasdaq-100 `Training Wheels': Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2010-09-27T15:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/apple-takes-ride-on-nasdaq-100-training-wheels-chart-of-the-day.html
Apple Inc.’s surging share of the
Nasdaq-100 Index shows the benchmark is saddled with a stock-
market equivalent of “training wheels,” according to  Mike O’Rourke , BTIG LLC’s chief market strategist.  The CHART OF THE DAY depicts  Apple’s  20 percent weighting
in the index at the end of last week, along with year-end data
since 2003. The maker of iPad and Macintosh computers, iPhones
and iPod music players surpassed  PetroChina Co.  last week to
become the world’s second-biggest company by market value,
trailing  Exxon Mobil Corp. , the largest U.S. oil producer.  Apple carries more than four times as much  weight  as any
other Nasdaq-100 stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This affects the composition of one of the most active exchange-
traded funds,  PowerShares QQQ , which tracks the index.  Yet its stock-market value is only about 25 percent higher
than that of  Microsoft Corp. , the index’s second-largest company
by this gauge. Apple had a $267.2 billion capitalization at the
end of last week, and Microsoft stood at $214.4 billion.  The Nasdaq Stock Market sets the value of each company in
the index with its own  calculation , combining market value and
equal weighting. The so-called modified capitalization method
has been in place since December 1998, when technology stocks
were soaring because of the Internet bubble.  It’s time that Nasdaq “takes the training wheels off and
begins to represent reality” in the Nasdaq-100, O’Rourke wrote
today in a commentary. Switching to market-cap weighting would
diversify the index and the PowerShares ETF and minimize any
distortions from Apple’s price swings, the report said.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  