-- Arctic Grab Is Mad Fight for Last Oil Frontier: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-09-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/arctic-grab-is-mad-fight-for-last-oil-frontier-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
If we didn’t already have the
phrase Cold War, we’d have to invent it to describe the power
struggle taking place for Arctic Ocean resources.  Companies such as  BP Plc  and  OAO Gazprom  are readying
themselves for the last great energy frontier. Russia, the U.S.,
Canada and Iceland are vying for control of the wealth and power
that exploitation of the Arctic will create.  It is all madness. Trying to bring the frozen wastelands
around the North Pole into the global economy involves two huge
risks: catastrophic climate change, and a major war.  It isn’t worth it. The world is making progress with
alternatives to fossil fuels. It has enough growth opportunities
already. There’s only one sensible response: a complete ban on
the economic exploitation of the Arctic.  The melting of the polar ice cap is providing access to
vast, untapped reserves of oil and gas. BP estimated in
September last year that the region may contain about 200
billion barrels of oil-equivalent resources. That may be as much
as half of the world’s hydrocarbons still to be discovered.  BP’s recent experience in the Gulf of Mexico might have
slightly damped its enthusiasm for offshore drilling. But even
if the company doesn’t want to tap the Arctic fields, plenty of
its competitors will be happy to.  Sources of Wealth  It isn’t just oil. The melting of the ice cap may allow
direct shipping between Europe and Asia, halving the journey
time. New trade routes will mean new ports and transport hubs.
Iceland, bruised from its recent attempts to become a global
financial center, may find its future in trade instead as ships
pass through the Arctic. Throughout history, trade routes have
been a great source of wealth. This one won’t be any different.  The trouble is, opening up the Arctic to economic
development is fraught with risk. There is already geopolitical
conflict brewing in the region.  “It is important to maintain a zone of peace and
cooperation in the Arctic,” Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said at the International Arctic Forum in Moscow last
week. “I have no doubt that all issues, including those of the
Arctic shelf, can be resolved in the spirit of partnership.”  If you believe that, you’ll believe anything. In reality,
Russia is pouring huge sums of money into assembling the
scientific and geographical evidence that will allow it to push
its territory as far into the Arctic as possible.  Power Politics  The world has seen how Putin’s Russia uses energy as a
weapon of power politics. That Putin believes Arctic disputes
can be resolved amicably is about as plausible as believing he
has genuinely handed over power to President  Dmitry Medvedev .  In truth, the Russians are planning to grab control of as
much of the Arctic as they can. But so are Canada, the U.S.,
Iceland, Denmark and Norway. If the Chinese can think of some
plausible reason for saying it is theirs, no doubt they will be
there soon as well.  There are two good reasons to place a ban on Arctic mining.  First, climate change.  The logic of the energy industry appears to be this: Fossil
fuels create global warming, which melts the polar ice cap,
which is sort of handy -- even though upsetting for the polar
bears -- because it means that with all that stupid ice out of
the way we can start drilling for more oil. And once we get it
out, and start burning it, it will melt the ice some more, and
make even more oil accessible.  Stop Drilling  It’s crazy. If the polar ice cap is melting -- and the bulk
of scientific evidence suggests that it is at a rapid rate --the
first thing you need to do is stop drilling for more oil.  True, not everyone is convinced that climate change is man-
made. There is room for argument. The scientific consensus has
been wrong before, and may have gotten this one tangled up as
well. And yet, given the catastrophic consequences if the
consensus is right, why take the risk?  Great progress is being made with alternatives to fossil
fuels. Electric cars are on the verge of breaking into the mass
market. Wind, solar and nuclear power are increasingly able to
heat our homes and offices. They are better for the environment,
and they don’t leave you dependent on people in Moscow or Riyadh
to stay warm in winter. Why not press on with developing those
rather than drilling for oil and gas in the Arctic?  Second, no one really knows who owns the Arctic. When it
was just a big block of ice, no one really cared. Now that money
is at stake, half the world is making claims. In the 19th
century, the major European powers competed for control of the
resources and trade routes of Africa and Asia. They ended up
with World War I. There is a risk that a similar rush to control
the Arctic may trigger another major conflict. Even if it
doesn’t, competing ambitions will poison relations for years.  A ban on mining and drilling in the Arctic is the only way.
For a few more barrels of oil, it’s not worth the risk.  ( Matthew Lynn  is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  