-- Large Yuan Gain `Not Good for Anybody,' Former PBOC Adviser Fan Gang Says
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-09-27T06:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/large-yuan-gain-not-good-for-anybody-former-pboc-adviser-fan-gang-says.html
Large gains in China’s currency
aren’t in anyone’s interest and the yuan is already appreciating
progressively, according to a former adviser to the nation’s
central bank.  “A big fluctuation is not good for anybody -- not good for
Chinese companies, not good for the global financial monetary
system,”  Fan Gang , a former member of the People’s Bank of
China monetary policy committee, said in an interview in Kuala
Lumpur today. The yuan “will be appreciating against the U.S.
dollar, and it’s in the process” of doing so, he said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  has been resisting international calls
to allow the yuan to appreciate significantly, saying this month
a 20 percent rise would cause job losses and “major social
upheaval.” The currency has gained about 2 percent against the
dollar since June 19, when the central bank said it would pursue
a more flexible exchange rate after keeping it pegged for almost
two years.  Fan reiterated that a revaluation of yuan -- even one of
the magnitude of the yen’s appreciation during the 1970s and
1980s -- wouldn’t have a big impact on the U.S. trade deficit
with China.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said Sept. 20 China is keeping
its currency cheap to aid exporters. China ran up a $119 billion
trade surplus with the U.S. in the first half of 2010, putting
it on course to exceed last year’s total of $227 billion,
figures from the U.S. Commerce Department show.  Own Pace  The yuan should be allowed to appreciate at its own pace
and any changes will depend on China’s economic fundamentals,
Chen Jian, vice minister of commerce, said in Taipei today.  The biggest risk to China’s economy, which overtook Japan
as the world’s second biggest last quarter, is an asset bubble,
Fan said, adding that policy makers should increase supply to
curb home-price gains. Property prices in urban China are “too
high” and “difficult to accept,” according to a third-quarter
survey of urban households by the central bank released Sept. 19.  Fan said he forecasts gross domestic product may expand 9
percent this year and between 8 percent and 9 percent in 2011.
Inflation is not a “big risk” now as it will likely peak at
less than 4 percent by year-end, he said.  China’s  growth  cooled to 10.3 percent last quarter from
11.9 percent in the first three months of this year, as the
government tried to prevent a property bubble by curbing home
purchases and closing factories to meet energy-efficiency and
pollution targets. Third-quarter data are due on Oct. 21.  Inflation  ran at 3.5 percent, a 22-month high, in August,
pushed up by rising food costs. Food prices in China will remain
stable,  Zhou Wangjun , deputy director at the National
Development and Reform Commission, China’s top economic planner,
said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  