-- Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Gold Gains for Fourth Session as Currencies Drop
-- B y   S t e v e   S t r o t h
-- 2010-09-27T22:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/asia-commodity-day-ahead-gold-gains-for-fourth-session-as-currencies-drop.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  ECONOMIC EVENTS, AGRICULTURE REPORTS:  
TOP STORIES:  Gold Advances for Fourth Session on ‘Devaluing of Currencies’  Gold rose for a fourth straight session in New York on
speculation that slumping currencies will boost demand for
precious metals as alternative investments. Silver extended
gains to the highest price since 1980.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Smallest Commodity Moves Since 1996 Signal Gold Gain (Update2)  While wheat as much as doubled this year and cotton surged,
the benchmark index for commodities is signaling neither
inflation nor deflation, spurring investors to bet the best
returns next quarter will be in precious metals.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Falls From Five-Month High on Concern Demand May Wane  Copper prices fell from a five- month high on speculation
that tepid economic growth signals slack metal demand.  MINING:  Kerimov’s Assets Remain Frozen by Cypriot Court (Update2)  A Cyprus court maintained a freeze on Russian billionaire
Suleiman Kerimov’s assets, including stakes in mining company
OAO Polyus Gold and fertilizer maker OAO Uralkali.  Merafe Says Fourth Quarter Ferrochrome Price Settled at $1.30  Merafe Resources Ltd. said the European benchmark
ferrochrome price has been settled at $1.30 per pound.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold to Reach Record $1,406 in a Year, Survey Shows (Update1)  Gold may advance 8 percent to a record $1,406 an ounce in a
year, according to the average in a survey of those attending
the London Bullion Market Association’s conference in Berlin
this week.  Zijin Mining Says Dam Collapse Led to Four Deaths (Update2)  Zijin Mining Group Co. said four people died after a
tailings dam collapsed, adding to safety concerns at China’s
biggest gold producer two months after another accident poisoned
almost 2,000 metric tons of fish.  BofA-ML Raises ‘Medium-Term’ Silver Target to $25 From $20/Ounce  Bank of America-Merrill Lynch raised its “medium” term
silver target to $25 an ounce, from $20 an ounce.  Gold Buying May Persist on Economy Concerns, OECD’s White Says  Investors may continue buying gold amid concerns about the
economic recovery and the prospects for inflation, said William
White, chairman of the economic development and review committee
at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  Central Bank Gold Sales Drop 40% in Accord, WGC Says (Update1)  Central banks and the International Monetary Fund sold
about 94.5 metric tons of gold in the year that ended yesterday,
the lowest amount under an agreement that began in 1999,
according to data from the World Gold Council.  AGRICULTURE:  Wheat Futures Drop as Demand May Fall on Declining Corn Prices  Wheat futures fell on signs that demand will ease as the
price of corn, also used in livestock feed, dropped for the
fifth time in six sessions.  Cattle Gain on Speculation Declines Were Overdone; Hogs Rise  Cattle futures rose the most in five weeks on speculation
that last week’s 3.8 percent decline was exaggerated as demand
for U.S. beef is expected to increase. Hogs also gained.  Cotton Soars on Global-Supply Concerns; Orange Juice Gains  Cotton futures surged the exchange limit in New York,
extending a rally to a 15-year high, on mounting concern that
global demand will outstrip supplies. Orange juice also rose.  Sugar Futures Advance to Seven-Month High on Supply Concerns  Sugar climbed to a seven-month high on concern that
adverse weather will curb output in Brazil, the world’s biggest
exporter, and Australia, the third-largest.  Cocoa Gains on Speculation Prices Slumped Too Far; Coffee Rises  Cocoa rose to a five-week high on speculation that a recent
slump will prompt chocolate makers and other consumers to add to
their inventories. Coffee also gained.  Soybeans Gain to 15-Month High on Rising Demand for Cooking Oil  Soybeans rose to a 15-month high after a report showed
increasing demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s
biggest producer and exporter.  Corn Drops as Dry Weather May Speed U.S. Harvest, Boost Supply  Corn prices fell from a two-year high on speculation that
drier conditions in the Midwest will allow farmers to speed up
harvesting in the U.S., the world’s largest grower and exporter.  U.S. Corn, Cotton Ratings Worsen, USDA Says; Soybeans Unchanged  The condition of the U.S. corn crop declined last week, the
government said, as some fields in the Midwest received six
times the normal rainfall. Soybean ratings were unchanged, while
cotton conditions worsened.  SHIPPING:  Baltic Dry Index Has First Gain in 11 as Iron Ore Demand Rises  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity shipping
costs, rose for the first time in 11 sessions as demand for iron
ore strengthened.  ECONOMIES:  Chinese Industrial Company Profits Rise 55% on Year (Update3)  Chinese industrial companies’ profits climbed 55 percent in
the first eight months of 2010 from a year earlier, bolstering
investment as the government pares back stimulus.  Yuan Climbs to Strongest Level Since 1993 Before U.S. Vote  China’s yuan surged to the strongest level since 1993 on
speculation the government will bow to growing political
pressure to allow faster appreciation.  Treasury Said to Prepare AIG Exit, Repayment Plan (Update5)  The U.S. Treasury Department may announce plans as early as
this week to return American International Group Inc. to
independence and recoup taxpayer money from the insurer’s
bailout, according to three people with knowledge of the talks.  Fed Model for Treasuries Shows Diminishing Returns (Update3)  This year’s rally in Treasuries has pushed yields so low
that a Federal Reserve measure of risk shows U.S. government
securities are too expensive.  Mundell Says U.S. Action on Yuan Rate Would Be a ‘Disaster’  Nobel-Prize winning economist Robert Mundell said U.S.
legislation to press China to raise the value of the yuan would
be a “disaster” and fail to narrow the trade deficit between
the two nations.  OTHER MARKETS:  Treasuries Gain After Auction of Two-Year Notes; Euro Weakens  Treasuries gained after a $36 billion auction of two-year
notes drew the most demand since August 2007 as investors
speculated the Federal Reserve will buy more government bonds.
The euro slumped as yield spreads for Irish and Portuguese debt
jumped to record closing levels.  Mantega Says Brazil Will Buy All ‘Excess Dollars’ (Update1)  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega said the
government will buy all “excess dollars” in the market in a
bid to curb the real’s appreciation and reduce volatility.  U.S. Stocks Decline as European Debt Concern Grows; M&T Drops  U.S. stocks retreated, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
paring what could be its biggest September gain in 71 years amid
speculation merger talks between M&T Bank Corp. and Banco
Santander SA broke down, and investors bet Ireland and
Portugal’s finances are deteriorating.  Dow ‘Super Boom’ to Send Gauge to 38,820, Hirsch Says (Update4)  The Dow Jones Industrial Average will surge to 38,820 in an
eight-year “super boom” beginning in 2017, according to
Jeffrey A. Hirsch, editor in chief of the “Stock Trader’s
Almanac.”  Crude Oil Little Changed as Dollar, U.S. Stocks Hold Steady  Crude oil futures were little changed as U.S. stocks
rebounded from an early decline and the dollar fluctuated
against the euro.  SPORTS:  Manchester United Says Rooney Isn’t Fit to Play Against Valencia  Manchester United forward Wayne Rooney won’t travel to
Spain for a Champions League match with Valencia because of an
ankle injury, the club said.  Tiger Woods Was Montgomerie’s Pick for U.S. Ryder Cup Squad  Tiger Woods has the backing of European captain Colin
Montgomerie for this week’s Ryder Cup.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  