-- Asian Stocks Head for `Break Down' After 24% Rebound: Technical Analysis
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 2010-09-27T02:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/asian-stocks-head-for-break-down-after-24-rebound-technical-analysis.html
An index of  stocks  in Asia outside
of Japan may be set to “break down” as the gauge nears the end
of a rebound from a May low, said CIMB Investment Bank Bhd.  The  MSCI Asia excluding Japan Index  rose 0.9 percent to
528.93 as of 10:12 a.m. in Singapore, taking gains from the May
25 low to 24 percent. The measure has formed a wedge pattern in
its rebound from this year’s low, with the trend lines
connecting the peaks and troughs converging.  The rally over the past four months has helped the measure
rally above the resistance trend line, a pattern known as a
“throw over” in Elliott Wave Principle, CIMB analysts  Nigel Foo  and  Kong Seh Siang  said. This may suggest that the wedge is
on its final wave, according to the analysts.  “If we are right, the MSCI Asia ex-Japan should break down
over the next few weeks,” the analysts wrote in a report today.  Still, the wedge formation currently “remains intact” and
a further upturn in the index would signal a more “bullish
wavecount,” according to the analysts.  The Elliott Wave Theory was originally developed by
accountant Ralph Nelson Elliott during the Great Depression.
Elliott concluded that market swings, or waves, follow a
predictable, five-stage structure of three steps forward, two
steps back.  Elsewhere in Asia, South Korea’s Kospi index also looks to
be at the final leg of a wedge pattern that marked its gains
from end-May, while China’s Shanghai Composite Index has already
entered a “consolidation phase,” with its daily  technical
indicators  have turning negative, according to CIMB.  The analysts said on Sept. 15 the  Shanghai Composite  was on
the verge of completing a diagonal triangle, a chart formation
that signals a “reversal” of the gains over the past two
months. They said a breakdown below 2,619 points would confirm
the start of a “minor correction.”  The Shanghai gauge fell below that level in intraday
trading on Sept. 16. The target for the index would now be 2,466,
the 61.8 percent reversal on the Fibonacci chart, the analysts
wrote in today’s report. The Chinese index added 0.5 percent to
2,603.21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  