-- Tata Steel, JSW Gain After RBS Says Prices May Rise on Surging Farm Demand
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2010-09-27T11:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/tata-steel-jsw-may-raise-prices-4-on-increasing-farm-demand-rbs-says.html
Tata Steel Ltd. ,  Steel Authority of
India Ltd.  and  JSW Steel Ltd.  gained after RBS Equities (India)
Ltd. said the nation’s top producers may raise prices as much as
4 percent next month because of lower imports from China and a
surge in rural demand.  Tata Steel rose 2.5 percent to 645.90 rupees at close of
trading today in Mumbai.  Shares  of Steel Authority gained 0.5
percent to 206.90 rupees, while JSW Steel  advanced  3.5 percent
to 1,319.90 rupees.  Steel prices, which rose an average 4 percent in September,
are likely to gain for the second consecutive month, said  Rahul Jain , an analyst at RBS in Mumbai. Bulk of the demand may come
from farmers who are expected to spend more during the festival
season after a robust monsoon, said  Nikhil Agarwal , an analyst
at Kim Eng Securities India Ltd. in New Delhi.  An above-average monsoon , the main source of irrigation for
the nation’s 235 million farmers, is expected to produce a
record crop this year, boosting agricultural incomes and sales
of homes, tractors and motorcycles. China’s move to restrict
power supplies to mills will likely diminish exports to India,
lifting demand for Indian-made steel.  “Indian steelmakers lost out to imports in the first five
months of this fiscal year,” said Jain, who has a “buy”
rating on shares of Tata Steel and Steel Authority and a
“hold” rating for JSW. “In China, there are efforts to lower
output, which may lead to a drop in shipments to India.”  Diwali Demand  India’s steel demand, which grew 7.6 percent last fiscal
year, is forecast to grow 10 percent in the year ending March 31,
helped by demand for automobiles and spending on roads and ports,
 G.K. Basak , executive secretary of steel ministry’s joint plant
committee, said on Sept. 6. Sales of cars, motorcycles and
houses start increasing from September and peak on the day of
Diwali, the festival of lights, usually in November.  “Higher international prices and estimated demand in India
leaves room for some price increase in October,” JSW Marketing
Director  Jayant Acharya  said on Sept. 23.  Benchmark world  hot rolled coil  prices rose 3.6 percent
this month, according to Steel Business Briefing.  The monsoon this month in India has been 122 percent of the
50-year average as of Sept. 14, in contrast with last year when
rains were the least since 1972. The nation may have a record
corn crop in excess of 20 million metric tons in the year
through June 2011, according to  Adani Enterprises Ltd. , the
country’s biggest non-state trader of farm goods. The wheat
harvest may be a record 82 million tons.  Construction companies, which stopped work in northern and
western India due to excessive rains, will restart, adding to
the demand, Kim Eng’s Agarwal said. India’s passenger-car sales
jumped 33 percent from a year ago to a record in August.  The rise in demand since September has led to a drop in
inventory levels of steelmakers, RBS’s Jain said.  Steel Authority’s inventory fell 11.3 percent to 496,127
tons as of Sept. 22 from 559,061 tons on Aug. 15, while
deliveries rose 66.2 percent. JSW also expects a 100,000-ton
drop in inventory by Sept. 30 from the June 30 level, Chief
Financial Officer  Rajeev Pai  said on Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abhishek Shanker  in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  