-- Athletic Rhinemaidens Dangle 30 Feet Above Met Stage: Interview
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-09-27T01:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/athletic-rhinemaidens-dangle-30-feet-above-45-ton-met-opera-set-interview.html
By the time I caught up with the
three Rhinemaidens at the  Metropolitan Opera , they had traded
their complex fishtails for ordinary shoes.  Encased in shiny black body suits, topped off by foot-high
mesh headgear, Lisette Oropesa, Tamara Mumford and Jennifer
Johnson recovered from their aqueous adventures in a small
dressing room down the hall from where the bigger fish sing
their scales: Wotan, the chief god, or his wife, Fricka.  Tonight, when the curtain rises on “ Das Rheingold ,” as
Wagner’s dank chords emanate from the pit, the Rhinemaidens are
the first to sing. Strapped into harnesses, they dangle some 30
feet above the stage in simulated waters, guarding the gold of
the Rhine.  Beneath them is an immense, abstract set weighing 45 tons,
whose parts are activated by computer programs. Canadian
director Robert Lepage of  Cirque de Soleil  fame conjured up the
set and special effects with his company, Ex Machina.  “You’re in this extremely tight, hip-hugging contraption,
really helpless, and you’re sweating,” explained Oropesa,
batting Woglinde’s 2-inch-long eyelashes. “You have to get
through the scene and look gorgeous at the same time.”  As the set changes, the Rhinemaidens land on the banks of
the river for their fateful frolic with Alberich, the lusty
dwarf. He steals their gold with bad results for everyone in the
show.  Even then, as they roll around like seals, the threesome is
still high above the stage.  “We all feared the flying, but singing while sitting down
and moving became the hard part,” said Mumford, who sings
Flosshilde.  Balancing Act  I can see why. On one end, they’re stuck into fishtails;
on their heads, they’re balancing high turban-like contraptions
threaded with gold.  The tails kept getting tangled up in the cables and had to
be redesigned, lest a mermaid be sushied. All three hit the gym
for the last few weeks to get in shape.  “We arrive early enough to work in about 30 minutes of
special warm-up exercises before getting into the costume,”
said Johnson, the Wellgunde.  The constricting harness may cut off circulation and set
their hearts racing.  “It’s really scary,” Oropesa said. “We try not to look
like we are hanging on for dear life, especially after the
director kept telling us not to dangle like dead fish.”  “Das Rheingold” opens tonight at 6:45 p.m. The Met is
sending out free telecasts to Lincoln Center Plaza and Times
Square. For more information:  http://www.metopera.org .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg in New York 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 