-- Australian Dollar Rises to Two-Year High as U.S. Rate Differential Widens
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-09-28T16:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/australian-dollar-retreats-from-highest-in-2-years-as-gains-seen-too-rapid.html
The Australian dollar strengthened
to a more than two-year high versus its U.S. counterpart on
expectations the central bank will increase borrowing costs,
raising the allure of the nation’s securities.  The currency, known as the Aussie, furthered its biggest
monthly advance against the greenback since May 2009 as lower-
than-expected consumer confidence in the U.S. fueled speculation
the interest rates between the countries will continue to
diverge. New Zealand’s currency rose to a four-day high against
the greenback.  “The appreciation of the Aussie is on the back of Governor
Stevens possibly pulling the trigger next week,” said  Dean Popplewell,  an analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading
firm Oanda Corp. “It looks extremely appealing on the interest
premium in Aussie-dollar, especially with weaker data out of
North America today.”  Australia’s currency rose 0.7 percent to 96.72 U.S. cents
at 12:02 p.m. in New York, the most since July 2008, from 96.09
cents yesterday. It has risen 8.6 percent this month, gaining 15
percent since June 30. The currency was little changed at 81.074
yen.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.6 percent to 73.89 U.S. cents
and was little changed at 61.91 yen.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.5 percent in  Australia  and 3
percent in New Zealand, compared with 0.1 percent in  Japan  and
as low as zero in the U.S., attracting investors to the South
Pacific nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades
is that currency market moves will erase profits.  Yield Spread  The currency is the second-best performer this quarter
versus the greenback among its most-traded counterparts after
the Swedish krona as the  extra yield  on Australia’s two-year
notes over Treasuries widened to near the most since June 2008.
It was at 4.38 percentage points today after climbing as high as
4.43 points yesterday.  “The Aussie has been underpinned by the interest-rate
outlook and general weakness in the U.S. dollar because of the
potential for quantitative easing from the Fed,” said  Derek Mumford , a Sydney-based director at Rochford Capital, a currency
and rates risk management firm. “You have to buy dips.”  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will raise
borrowing costs to 4.75 percent next week, according to the
median  estimate  of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and fellow policy makers
hinted last week they are willing to embark on another round of
so-called quantitative easing asset purchases to spur growth and
support prices.  Australian bond futures rose, with the 10-year contract for
December delivery at 94.91 on the Sydney Futures Exchange from
94.84 yesterday. The implied yield on the futures fell seven
basis points to 5.09 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net 
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  