-- Avis Asks Dollar Thrifty to Postpone Hertz Bid Vote
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2010-09-27T21:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/avis-asks-dollar-thrifty-to-postpone-shareholder-vote-on-hertz-s-offer.html
Avis Budget Group Inc.  asked  Dollar
Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. , which today said it favors  Hertz
Global Holdings Inc.’s  $1.46 billion takeover offer, to delay a
shareholder vote so the bids can clear regulatory approval.  If Dollar Thrifty doesn’t postpone the vote to Dec. 30 and
 shareholders  reject Hertz’s bid, Avis will start an exchange
offer at its latest offer, which was $53.09 a share, or $1.52
billion, based on today’s closing share prices, Parsippany, New
Jersey-based Avis said today in a statement. Hertz’s most recent
bid, which it said was final, is for $50.78 a share.  Dollar Thrifty has rejected Avis’s higher bids, saying they
may not be cleared by the Federal Trade Commission. Avis has
declined Dollar Thrifty’s request to match Hertz’s $44.6 million
breakup fee and said the Hertz offer has “significant remaining
antitrust hurdles.”  “This highlights why it makes no sense for Dollar Thrifty
to hold a shareholder meeting on September 30 while the FTC’s
evaluation of both the Hertz deal and the Avis Budget deal
continues and the outcome of such evaluation will not be known
for many months,” Avis’s management said in a letter to Dollar
Thrifty today.  Avis raised the cash portion of its bid to $45.79 a  share 
on Sept. 23 and kept the stock portion at 0.6543 of an Avis
share.  Rich Broome , a Hertz spokesman, and  Stephanie Pillersdorf ,
a spokeswoman for Dollar Thrifty, didn’t immediately return e-
mailed messages.  ‘Protect Our Shareholders’  “Avis Budget has not demonstrated to our satisfaction that
its proposed transaction can be completed in a timely manner and
that it would adequately protect our shareholders in the event
that Avis Budget is unable to obtain the required regulatory
approvals,” Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty said earlier
today in a statement.  Hertz could pay $70 a share for Dollar Thrifty and still
add to earnings, while Avis could pay that much without reducing
its profit,  Michael Millman , founder of Millman Research
Associates, wrote yesterday in a research note. Cost savings
weren’t included and could improve results, he said.  “Avis’ offer suffers from the lack of a reverse
termination fee, an important Dollar Thrifty demand to show
confidence of ‘deal certainty,’” Millman said. “A reverse
termination fee agreement would give Dollar Thrifty no choice
but to declare Avis’ offer a ‘superior offer.’”  He recommends buying shares of all three companies.  Hertz, based in Park Ridge, New Jersey, rose 12 cents, or
1.1 percent, to $11.28 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . Avis rose 1 cent to $11.15. Dollar Thrifty
fell 24 cents to $50.79.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 