-- Azerbaijan Oil Fund to Invest in Equities for First Time to Boost Returns
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2010-09-27T06:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/azerbaijan-oil-fund-to-invest-in-equities-for-first-time-to-boost-returns.html
The State Oil Fund of Azerbaijan,
with $20 billion of assets, plans to shed its fixed-income only
strategy and start investing in equities to boost returns.  “As a long-term investor, being in fixed-income is not
going to help so the fund will start moving to riskier asset
classes as soon as possible,” Chief Investment Officer  Israfil Mammadov , 37, said in an interview at his office in Baku, the
nation’s capital. “Most likely we will start with the developed
world and passive management, meaning indexes.”  The fund’s assets may grow to $100 billion by 2030 after
Azerbaijan boosted  oil production  and prices rebounded from 2008
lows, the World Bank said in a December report. Azerbaijan, a
Caspian Sea nation of 9 million people, pumped 50.4 million
metric tons of oil last year, 13 percent more than in 2008,
according to the state statistics committee.  Sofaz is seeking to boost returns as the nation’s oil
fields become depleted. Oil production in Azerbaijan, an
industry pioneer in the 19th century, will peak in five years,
and  reserves  will run out in about 25 years without additional
discoveries, according to a Sept. 9 research note from Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The fund expects return of about 2 percent on its holdings
this year, because “we live in an extremely low-yield
environment,” Mammadov said last week.  “This leads us to more risky asset classes, and we will
start with equities,” he said. “The next step will be
alternative investments, i.e. private equity and real estate.”  He declined to specify what percentage of assets would be
invested in stocks, saying only that it will be “what’s
tolerable for the country.”  The investments will probably be managed in house, Mammadov
said. Sofaz has 30 people in its asset management team,
including traders and fund managers.  Founded in 1999, Sofaz manages all state revenue from oil
and natural gas. It is charged with preserving Azerbaijan’s
economic stability, helping diversify the economy and preserving
the nation’s wealth for future generations.  Before joining Sofaz, Mammadov was the U.K. representative
for the State Oil Company of Azerbaijan and the senior diplomat
for finance and energy security issues at the Azeri embassy in
London. He holds a degree from the School of International
Economics at the Moscow Institute of International Relations.  To get higher yields, the fund has increased holdings of
investment-grade emerging market debt, Mammadov said.  “We are also trying to find the extra yield we can get by
buying lower credit quality, but not less than what is
allowed,” he said.  Government regulations require Sofaz’s fixed-income
holdings to be rated no lower than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s or
Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service, their lowest investment
grades. Sofaz is required to invest 50 percent of the fund in
dollar-denominated assets, 40 percent in euro assets and 5
percent in those denominated in British pounds.  Sofaz bought the debt of U.S. mortgage lenders Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, as well as investment banks, as spreads widened
amid investor concern about the subprime crisis and the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008, Mammadov said. The
fund says it has about $595 million in U.S. agency debt and $90
million in Treasuries.  It also owns Greek, Spanish and Portuguese debt as those
countries struggle to cut their budget deficits and rebuild
investor confidence, Mammadov said.  “We do not have plans to sell those positions,” he said.
“We think they will manage to overcome these problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nariman Gizitdinov  in Baku at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  