-- DuPont’s Yet2 Raises $100 Million After Japan Tie-Up
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 2010-09-27T06:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/benjamin-dupont-s-yet2-com-raises-100-million-ties-up-with-japan-venture.html
Yet2.com , a U.S. patent distributor
headed by  Benjamin duPont , raised $100 million for a fund to
invest in startup companies and is using some of the financing
to tie up with venture capital firm  Japan Asia Investment Co.   Under the agreement, yet2.com will help the Japanese firm,
also known as JAIC, raise funds and will share returns on
investments made through the new fund, said duPont, a direct
descendant of the founder of U.S. chemical maker,  DuPont Co. 
Tokyo-based JAIC will help the U.S. firm find potential
investments, he said.  Yet2.com raised funds from wealthy individuals including
the duPont family and aims to mainly invest in U.S.-based
electronics, medical device and environmental technology
developers. JAIC is seeking new funding from high-net worth
individuals and families after the worst financial crisis since
the 1930s sapped demand from institutional investors, said
Kazuhiro Umeda, a Tokyo-based senior manager at the firm.  “Some billionaires are keen to invest in patents and
technologies even at a time when venture capitalists are going
through a tough time to raise funds,” Umeda said. “Yet2.com’s
Fortune 500 network and the sort of connections that Mr. duPont
has in the elite society are something we hope to benefit
through this partnership.”  U.S. venture fundraising fell 56 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier to $1.9 billion, according to the
 National Venture Capital Association .  ‘Pay-to-Play’  The increasing use of so-called pay-to-play practices,
where existing investors are required to give provisions to
participate in subsequent investment rounds, has made funding
more urgent at a time when institutional investors have shied
away from the venture capital market, said Umeda.  JAIC had investments worth 6.2 billion yen ($74 million) at
the end of June in 72 startup companies in North America,
according to the firm. Investments included Burlingame,
California-based  A-Cube Inc. , which develops antibody drugs for
cancer, and Sunnyvale, California-based  Avantis Medical Systems
Inc. , which makes devices used for colonoscopies.  The venture firm’s  shares  dropped 1.9 percent to 52 yen at
the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. They have fallen
13 percent in the past year,  compared  with an 8 percent decline
by the benchmark Topix index.  Yet2.com has already provided capital to JAIC through the
fund so that the Japanese company can keep its preferred
shareholder status, duPont said. Boston-based yet2.com will
utilize its connection with executives of Fortune 500 firms in
matching potential investors to startup companies, duPont said.  ‘Get In’  Yet2.com will start investing this year and expand for the
first time into Asia including Japan, South Korea, China and
Taiwan, duPont said. It will have a four-year investment period
and a six-year period to exit the investments, duPont said.  “Because so many people are getting out of venture, this
is a good time to get in,” said duPont, 46, in a telephone
interview on Sept. 21 from Wilmington, Delaware. “But you need
to make investments where you have exit opportunities identified
early in the process.”  The new fund follows yet2.com’s first $10 million venture-
capital fund, which made seven investments including a Florida-
based  Watermark Medical Inc. , a medical device maker which sells
home diagnostics for sleep, and  NanoPack Inc.  based in Wayne,
Pennsylvania, a maker of clear-film packaging, duPont said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 