-- Berlusconi Sees Italian Yields Rise on Threat of Early Election
-- B y   S t e v e   S c h e r e r
-- 2010-09-28T11:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/berlusconi-yields-climb-amid-threat-of-early-italian-election-euro-credit.html
Investors are driving up  Italy’s
borrowing costs  as Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  struggles to
retain enough support to prevent early elections in Europe’s
most-indebted nation.  The  extra yield  that investors demand to hold 10-year
Italian debt rather than German bunds exceeded 167 basis points
today, the highest level in a month. The premium is rising as
the government prepares to sell as much as 9.5 billion euros
($12.8 billion) of bonds today and tomorrow.  Berlusconi, 73, is seeking parliamentary backing for his
agenda after a July 30 split with  Gianfranco Fini , co-founder of
his People of Liberty party, robbed him of an absolute majority
in the lower house. Berlusconi’s third stint in office is
faltering before its scheduled end in 2013 as the government
tries to slash 25 billion euros from its deficit and must pay
back 50 billion euros of bonds that mature this year.  “Prolonged political instability is bad for bond spreads,
especially for a peripheral euro country,” said  Alexander Sassen van Elsloo , head of research at London-based brokerage
Hobart Capital Markets Ltd. “Italian sovereign bond yields will
widen over bunds for sure, provided all other factors remain
equal.”  Italy today sold 1.4 billion euros of inflation-linked
bonds due 2021, with demand for the securities at 1.4 times the
amount offered, down from 1.6 times at the previous sale in
July. The Treasury tomorrow will auction as much as 2 billion
euros of floating-rate notes due 2015, 3 billion euros of three-
year bonds and 3 billion euros of debt maturing in 2021.
Tomorrow’s sale may be the biggest since investors bought more
than 10 billion euros of the same three securities on Aug. 30.  Risk Premium  The yield premium investors demand to hold 10-year Italian
bonds rather than similar-maturity German securities has climbed
45 basis points to 167 basis points since Aug. 2.  The spread was narrower than for other so-called euro
peripherals such as  Greece  at 862 basis points, Spain at 190
basis points,  Portugal  at 428 basis points and Ireland at 446
basis points, which also have seen their borrowing costs jump in
the past month. Unlike Italy, the other four countries don’t
face any bond maturities for the rest of this year.  Berlusconi told supporters on Sept. 11 in Gubbio, Italy,
that political wrangling may damage the nation’s finances.  “We shouldn’t forget that we run the risk of even a
partial loss of confidence in the markets” if early elections
are called, he said.  Political Instability  Credit-default swaps linked to Italian debt were 205.5
basis points today, compared with the record 245 basis points in
June, according to CMA prices. Swaps for Greece were at 836
basis points and Spain was at 240.5 basis points. Italy’s
ratings range from A+ at Standard & Poor’s, the fifth-highest
ranking, to Aa2 at Moody’s, the third-highest grade.  Paolo Manasse, an economics professor at the University of
Bologna who did a study of the impact of the turmoil for
 lavoce.info , calculates that the current political impasse has
increased Italy’s long-term borrowing costs by 5 basis points,
and will add about 833 million euros to the interest-rate bill
if it persists. “The political instability has had a small cost
so far, but it would be substantial if it were to last,” he
said.  Berlusconi will seek parliament’s backing for his agenda
tomorrow, outlining five priorities for the rest of the
legislature, including making the tax code simpler. While he’ll
probably win that support, political gridlock may lead to
elections next year, said  Maurizio Pessato , chief executive
officer of SWG Srl, a Trieste, Italy-based pollster.  Elections ‘Likely’  “Spring elections are likely,” Pessato said in an
interview. “It will be an insidious election because the result
probably will be very unclear.”  Berlusconi passed a two-year austerity package on July 30
to reduce the deficit to below the European Union’s ceiling of 3
percent of gross domestic product by 2012 from 5.3 percent last
year. On that same day, Berlusconi ejected Fini from his party,
prompting the bloc’s split and the current deadlock.  While Italy held the EU’s biggest debt at the end of last
year, valued at 115.8 percent of GDP, the government kept the
deficit in check during the economic crisis, helping limit the
impact of Greece’s near default on Italian bonds. Ireland’s
deficit at 14.3 percent of GDP, is almost three times Italy’s,
while Spain’s at 11.2 percent of GDP is more than twice the
Italian gap.  “Italy is set to remain one of the best performers amongst
the peripherals,” said  Annalisa Piazza , a fixed-income analyst
at Newedge Group in London. “Markets are more focused on
financial problems than political issues.”  Popularity Slumps  The dispute between the premier and his former allies has
eroded Berlusconi’s popularity. His standing was unchanged this
month at 39 percent, matching the lowest level since he was re-
elected in April 2008, according to an IPR Marketing poll that
surveys 1,000 adults by telephone and has a 2.5 percent margin
of error.  Fini, 58, considered one of the politicians most likely to
vie for leadership, has criticized the premier for not allowing
dissent within the party they co-founded. The two men have won
three elections since joining forces in 1994.  Italo Bocchino, the chief whip for Fini’s group in the
Chamber, told reporters last week that tomorrow’s speech would
settle nothing between the two rivals, and that the gridlock
would likely continue.  “This is a useless game,” Bocchino said. “If there are
early elections, we won’t be the ones to blame.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Scherer  in Rome at 
 scherer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  