-- Billionaire Huang's Representatives in Discussions With Gome Shareholders
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-09-27T11:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/billionaire-huang-s-representatives-in-discussions-with-gome-shareholders.html
Billionaire  Huang Guangyu ’s
representatives are in discussions with all the shareholders of
 Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd. , including Bain Capital
LLC, as he fights for control of China’s second-largest
electronics retailer.  “The company’s founding shareholders’ intention is to work
with all shareholders,” Huang’s lawyer  Zou Xiaochun  said at a
briefing in Hong Kong today. Huang, who is serving a 14-year
jail sentence for insider trading and graft, is  Gome ’s founder
and largest stockholder.  Gome  shareholders are scheduled to vote tomorrow on
proposals by Huang, which include the removal of Chairman  Chen Xiao  and the cancellation of a mandate to sell new stock. Huang
also proposed his sister Huang Yanhong and attorney Zou be
appointed executive directors.  Huang, also known as Wong Kwong Yu,  owns  30.14 percent of
the retailer while his wife Lisa Du Juan holds 1.46 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bain is the second-
biggest shareholder with 9.98 percent, while Chen holds a 1.25
percent stake, according to the data.  Gome  rose  0.9 percent to HK$2.38 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in Hong Kong. The  stock  has lost 16 percent this year
compared with a 2.1 percent gain in the benchmark Hang Seng
Index.  Gome  rose 180 percent last year.  Five-Year Plan  Zou said Huang and his allies seek to implement a five-year
plan that will increase Gome’s stores to 2,000 and boost annual
sales to 100 billion yuan ($15 billion). The retailer reported
 revenue  of 42.7 billion yuan last year. Chen has said his five-
year plan may double sales at the end of the period.  Huang may offer to sell about 400 privately owned stores to
Gome in exchange for shares or bonds, Zou, who works as a
corporate lawyer for the imprisoned billionaire, said Sept. 11.
That would increase  Gome ’s outlets by about half.  The billionaire retained ownership of part of the appliance
chain’s network when it listed in Hong Kong in 2004 and will
proceed with the asset injection should shareholders accept his
proposals at tomorrow’s special general meeting, Zou said. The
meeting will be held from 2:30 p.m. tomorrow in Hong Kong.  Huang, once China’s richest man, built Gome into what was
the country’s biggest appliance chain, amassing a fortune
estimated at $6.3 billion in 2008. He is the highest-profile
businessman snared by a government crackdown on  corruption .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  