-- Blockbuster Wins Bankruptcy Court Approval to Borrow $25 Million of Loan
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-09-27T15:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/blockbuster-wins-court-approval-to-pay-studios-claims-for-movies-games.html
Blockbuster Inc. , the movie-rental
company that filed for bankruptcy last week, won interim court
approval to pay as much as $40.4 million to studios to maintain
the supply of movies.  Blockbuster can pay $28 million owed to Sony Pictures Home
Entertainment Inc., Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment LLC
and Warner Home Video, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in
Manhattan said at a court hearing today.  Those studios negotiated trade agreements with Blockbuster
in March in which they received security interests in
Blockbuster’s Canadian assets. Blockbuster can pay other studios
that negotiate agreements as much as $12.4 million, under
Lifland’s order.  Blockbuster said paying the pre-bankruptcy claims of the
studios was critical to maintaining the supply of movies and
games. In a court document read by the company’s attorney at
today’s hearing, Chief Executive Officer  James Keyes  said
failure to pay the studios would halt the supply of products,
“completely derailing” its reorganization.  Also today, Lifland said Blockbuster could borrow an
additional $25 million of its $125 million loan. Lifland last
week said the company could borrow $20 million. It will return
to court in October for permission to borrow the rest of the
loan. It will also return to court to pay additional claims of
the studios.  Blockbuster, based in Dallas, filed for bankruptcy last
week, listing  assets  of $1.02 billion against debt of $1.46
billion. The company has negotiated a restructuring plan with a
group of bondholders.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 