-- Blockbuster, Ag Energy, Duratek, Lehman: Bankruptcy
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2010-09-27T11:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/blockbuster-ag-energy-duratek-precast-innkeepers-bankruptcy.html
Blockbuster Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer James Keyes said he will evaluate “every single store”
in the video-rental chain as it reorganizes to compete with
competitors that provide movies online and by mail.  The 25-year-old company filed for bankruptcy Sept. 23 in
New York after losing sales to  Netflix Inc. ’s Web and mail-order
movie service and  Coinstar Inc. ’s Redbox DVD rental kiosks.
Revenue dropped 20 percent to $4.06 billion last year, when
Dallas-based Blockbuster reported a $558.2 million net loss.  As of Aug. 29, Blockbuster had about 5,600 stores
worldwide, including 3,300 in the U.S., according to court
papers. Michael Pachter, an analyst at  Wedbush Morgan Securities 
in Los Angeles, said the company may have to cut U.S. locations
to about 2,000 to increase annual sales per store to at least $1
million. In 2002, that figure stood at $1.1 million, he said.
The company will also face pressure to cut stores from “a new
class of  shareholder  wanting to see cash increasing in a
hurry,” he said.  In the past two years, Blockbuster has closed 1,061 U.S.
company-operated stores, according to a court document. All its
U.S. operations, including stores, DVD vending kiosks, mail and
digital, will continue to operate normally, the company said.  The company is likely to close more than 500 stores and
will seek ways to reduce lease costs on hundreds of others, a
person with knowledge of the plans said. The actual number of
stores is still being worked out, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the deliberations are private and
subject to court approval.  Patty Sullivan, a spokeswoman for Blockbuster, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment after
normal business hours. The Wall Street Journal reported the
store closings earlier.  Movie Gallery Inc. , which once had as many as 4,800
locations, filed for bankruptcy in 2007 and closed more than
1,700 stores. After reorganizing, the chain closed another 715,
before filing a second bankruptcy in February and liquidating.  In 2009, Blockbuster reached a deal with  NCR Corp.  for DVD
vending kiosks, under which NCR pays royalties to Blockbuster.
Blockbuster said in a court filing that the agreement lets it
compete with Redbox without the startup costs. As of Sept. 19,
there were about 6,600 Blockbuster kiosks throughout the U.S.
That business will continue to operate, NCR said Sept. 23 in a
statement.  Blockbuster has a marketing partnership with  Comcast Corp. ,
the biggest U.S. cable-television provider, in which subscribers
are offered Blockbuster’s by-mail services through a website.  The company also negotiated agreements with consumer-
electronics makers, including  Samsung Electronics Co.  and
 Toshiba Corp.  to deliver movies to customers with Internet-
connected TVs and Blu-ray players through a partnership with
 Sonic Solutions . Blockbuster also has an accord with  Motorola
Inc.  to embed its digital applications in mobile phones.  Under the proposed reorganization plan, there will be no
recovery by the holders of the company’s outstanding
subordinated debt, preferred stock or common stock, Blockbuster
said in a statement. Senior bondholders will swap their debt for
equity in the reorganized company.  In court papers, the company listed  assets  of $1.02 billion
against debt of $1.46 billion.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  New Filings  Ag Energy Resources Files Chapter 11 in Illinois  Ag Energy Resources Inc. , a biofuel processing facility,
filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code Sept. 23 in Benton, Illinois. The debtor listed assets of
$10 million to $50 million and liabilities of $1 million to $10
million, according to court papers.  Ag Energy Resources declared  Foxboro/Invensys Systems , with
a claim of $90,395, and the  Internal Revenue Service , with a
claim $95,520, among the largest of the 20 largest unsecured
creditors, according to a court filing. Ag Energy Resources has
real property valued at $4.9 million, and personal property
valued at $9.2 million, the debtor said in court papers. The
debtor has secured claims totaling $8.5 million, it said in a
filing.  The case is In re Ag Energy Resources, Inc., 10-41440, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Illinois (Benton).  Duratek Precast Technologies Files Chapter 11 in Florida  Duratek Precast Technologies Inc. , formerly known as
Duratek Wall Corp., filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code in Tampa, Florida.  The debtor,  maker of precast concrete wall systems  and
other structures, declared assets and liabilities each in the
ranges of $10 million to $50 million, according to court files.  An affiliate, Duratek Precast Structures LLC, also has a
pending bankruptcy case. Duratek Precast Technologies has made
an “emergency motion” asking the court for joint
administration of the two bankruptcy cases, court files showed.
Duratek Precast Technologies is the managing member and owns 100
percent of Duratek Precast Structures, the debtor said in court
papers in support of its motion.  Joint administration would expedite the cases and “avoid
unnecessary and expensive duplication” to the parties and the
court,” it argued. It asked for the relief as part of its first
day filings, without a hearing.  The case is Duratek Precast Technologies Inc.,10-22876,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  C.M.B. III Files Bankruptcy Protection in Arizona  C.M.B. III LLC filed for protection from creditors in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Phoenix, listing its assets and liabilities
from $10 million and $50 million, according to court files.  The debtor, represented by Richard M. Lorenzen of  Perkins
Coie Brown & Bain PA  in Phoenix, estimated that there will be
funds available for distribution to unsecured creditors, a court
filing showed. C.M.B. III has fewer than 50 creditors, it said
in its bankruptcy petition.  C.M.B. III’s largest unsecured creditor is Maricopa County,
to which the debtor owes $395,000 for unpaid taxes, court papers
revealed.  The case is In re C.M.B. III, LLC, 10-30496, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  BNA Subsidiaries Files Chapter 11 in New Hampshire  BNA Subsidiaries LLC, a publisher of materials for
government professionals, filed for protection from creditors in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The Peterborough, New Hampshire-based company declared
assets against liabilities in the range of $1 million to $10
million, according to court papers.  BNA Subsidiaries has been known by other names including
Kennedy Consulting Research, Washington G-2 Report, and IOMA,
according the filing. The  Bureau of National Affairs , with a
claim of $2 million, is the largest of the unsecured creditors
and owns all of the equity, according to court files.  BNA Subsidiaries requested court approval for $1.5 million
in debtor-in-possession financing. A hearing was set for Sept.
29 on the financing motion as well as other first-day relief,
including permission to pay wages and benefits.  The case is In re BNA Subsidiaries, LLC, 10-13087, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Updates  Innkeepers Has $47.5 Million for Preferred Holders  Innkeepers USA Trust  has four hotels that are valuable
enough to pay creditors and still leave $47.5 million for
preferred-share holders who would otherwise get nothing from the
bankrupt hotel owner, according to a court filing.  The preferred holders published a valuation of four out of
72 Innkeepers hotels to try to persuade a judge they should be
allowed to have a committee fighting for their interests in
court, according to the Sept. 23 filing. Most of Innkeepers’
hotels secure debt serviced by Midland Loan Services Inc., or
are pledged to a unit of defunct Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The four hotels are located in San Antonio, Washington,
Tyson’s Corner, Virginia, and San Diego.  Innkeepers, whose parent is managed by an affiliate of Leon
Black’s private-equity firm  Apollo Global Management LLC , filed
for bankruptcy protection on July 19.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lehman Art Sale Raises $12 Million for Creditors at Sotheby’s  A sale of art from  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  on Sept.
24 raised $12.3 million for creditors.  The priciest lot at the Lehman and Neuberger Berman art
liquidation sale at Sotheby’s in New York was a swirling 2001
canvas by Julie Mehretu, “Untitled 1,” that sold for $1
million to an unidentified telephone bidder, topping the
$800,000 high estimate. Bidders snubbed a 1993 Damien Hirst
cabinet, tagged to fetch as much as $1.2 million.  The sale garnered “curiosity” from the “global financial
community,” Tobias Meyer, Sotheby’s worldwide head of
contemporary art, said in an interview. The sale total exceeded
the $8.8 million to $12 million presale estimate. Out of 142
lots on offer, 118, or 83 percent, found buyers.  New York-based Lehman was the world’s fourth-largest
investment bank on Sept. 15, 2008, when it filed the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history. It had assets of $639 billion. More
than $830 billion in claims have been filed against Lehman,
which has said many are duplicates.  More Lehman art will be sold at  Christie’s International  in
London on Sept. 29 and at Freeman’s in Philadelphia on Nov. 7.  SIPC Tells Congress Madoff Victim Claims Exceed Agency’s Funds  The Securities Investor Protection Corp. said in a letter
to a congressional subcommittee that claims by victims of
Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme far exceed the funds available to
the agency to reimburse them.  As of Aug. 1, the SIPC had a total fund of $1.2 billion and
access to as much as an additional $2.5 billion in loans from
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, SIPC President
Stephen Harbeck said in a Sept. 7 letter to the House
Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government
Sponsored Enterprises.  The liquidation of New York-based Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC is the biggest such case undertaken by
SIPC, according to court records.  Claims by Madoff victims total $57.2 billion based on false
account statements issued by Madoff’s firm in November 2008, the
month before his arrest, according to the SIPC letter. Victims
lost $17.3 billion when calculated as the difference between
money invested and money withdrawn from Madoff’s firm.  The SIPC, which is required to pay victims a maximum of
$500,000 for most claims, has allocated $888 million to pay
claims based on lost principal. If forced to pay based on the
account statements, the SIPC would have to pay an additional
$1.1 billion, it said in the letter, produced in connection with
the subcommittee hearing on Sept. 23.  Madoff victims have tried, unsuccessfully so far, to force
the SIPC to pay based on their fictitious account balances. The
SIPC, supported by trustee Picard and U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Burton Lifland in Manhattan, has said it’s required only to pay
based on cash invested minus withdrawals.  On Sept. 24, the Litwin Foundation, a Madoff investor, sued
the SEC for “negligence” in failing to uncover the Ponzi
scheme. John Heine, a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on the lawsuit.  Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year prison term after
pleading guilty last year to masterminding the largest Ponzi
scheme in history.  The bankruptcy case is: Securities Investor Protection
Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Litwin case is The Litwin Foundation v. United
States of America, 10-CV-7367, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Bank Closures  Banks in Florida, Washington Shut; 2010 Failures Climb to 127  Regulators shut lenders in Florida and Washington amid
losses on real-estate loans, pushing the number of  U.S. bank
failures  to 127 for the year.  Haven Trust Bank Florida of Ponte Vedra Beach and
Arlington, Washington-based North County Bank were closed,
according to statements on the  website  of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., which was named receiver. The failures cost the
agency’s deposit-insurance fund $104.7 million.  Whidbey Island Bank, based in Coupeville, Washington, paid
a 2 percent premium to acquire $276.1 million in deposits and
four branches from North County, the FDIC said.  First Southern Bank of Boca Raton, Florida, took over Haven
Trust’s two branches and shared losses on $127.3 million in
assets with the FDIC, the agency said.  Banks are failing at a faster pace than last year, which
saw the most failures since 1992. Regulators closed 140 banks
last year.  Commercial Debt  Terex to Amend Credit Agreement to Gain Flexibility  Terex Corp. , the world’s third-biggest maker of
construction equipment, said it is seeking to amend its bank
credit facility. The revisions would allow Terex to prepay 100
percent of the outstanding principal amount of its term loans
under a credit facility of about $270 million.  In addition, the amendment would give Terex the flexibility
to redeem or repurchase debt, as well as to make  acquisitions ,
the Westport, Connecticut-based company said Sept. 24 in a
statement.  Statistics  Re-Default Rate on Home Loan Modifications Drops, U.S. Says  The number of  delinquent borrowers  who re-defaulted after
home loan modifications declined as lenders offered more
generous payment reductions, according to the U.S. Treasury
Department. Six months after receiving a modification, 32
percent of borrowers were at least 60 days delinquent through
the period ending June 30, down from 45 percent a year earlier,
the Treasury Department’s  Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency  and  Office of Thrift Supervision  reported Sept. 24. The
number of seriously delinquent mortgages declined 5.7 percent as
of June 30 to 2.08 million from 2.39 million three months
earlier, the report said.  Downgrades  ATI Acquisition Ratings Placed on Negative Credit Watch by S&P  ATI Acquisition Co. , the post-secondary education company,
had its corporate credit rating of B and all related issue-level
credit ratings on the company’s debt placed on credit watch
“with negative implications” by Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Services, according to a Sept. 24 statement by the ratings
company.  Arlington, Texas-based ATI Acquisition had total debt of
$234 million as of June 30, S&P said in the statement.  The placement of the ratings on credit watch “reflects the
potential impact of increased federal government regulation,
which would negatively affect ATI’s operating performance, debt
leverage, and liquidity,” Standard & Poor’s credit analyst Hal
Diamond said in the statement.  The  U.S. Education Department  has proposed a requirement
that post-secondary programs demonstrate federal student loan
principal repayment rates at certain thresholds in order for
students to remain eligible for federal loans under Title IV
funding, according to S&P’s statement. Certain of ATI’s schools
“had repayment rates that fell below the threshold for
retaining Title IV funding eligibility, based on the current
measure of repayment rates and relevant thresholds proposed” by
the Education Department, according to the statement.  The Education Department plans to complete the new
regulations by Nov. 1, with initial implementation beginning
July 1, according to S&P’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 