-- LBO Loans Rise to Most Since Lehman Collapse as Economy Stirs Back to Life
-- B y   I s a b e l l   W i t t   a n d   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2010-09-27T10:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/lbo-loans-rise-to-most-since-lehman-collapse-as-economy-stirs-back-to-life.html
Private-equity firms are borrowing
the most in Europe since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. froze debt markets, as defaults halve and the
economy recovers.  Leveraged buyout loans surged to $8 billion in the third
quarter, the most in any three-month period since September
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Strengthening global demand helped the region’s economy
expand 1 percent in the second quarter, the fastest pace in four
years, the European Union said Sept. 2. The default rate for
leveraged borrowers declined to 5 percent in August from 12.3
percent a year ago, and will fall to 2.7 percent by the end of
this year, Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 8.  “The economy is no longer in freefall and this is
reflected in the increased activity in the LBO market,” said
 Michael Sheren , London-based head of leveraged loan syndication
at Credit Agricole CIB. “There is a lot of money sitting in
private equity funds that has to be put to work. Many banks have
balance sheet space available for underwriting leveraged
finance.”  CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is raising $2.4 billion to
finance its acquisition of Swiss phone company Sunrise
Communications AG, the largest LBO financing in Europe since May
2008, according to Bloomberg data. London-based CVC is also
marketing 785 million euros ($1.1 billion) of loans to back its
buyout of vending machine firm Autobar Group Ltd., the data
show.  5 Billion-Euro Deal  Funds including collateralized loan obligations, the most
active buyers of leveraged loans before 2008, are stepping up
purchases and selling in the secondary market to make room for
the new issues, said  Eugene Regis , a London-based credit analyst
at Barclays Capital.  “There is enough capacity to cope with deals of up to 5
billion euros,” Regis said. “CLOs have a moderate amount of
cash from refinancing in the bond market.”  The average LBO loan size rose to $438 million this year
from $347 million, Bloomberg data show. A total $36.4 billion of
European buyouts have been announced so far in 2010, more than
three times the amount in the same period last year. Loans to
the private sector rose 1.2 percent in August from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in 14 months, the European Central
Bank said today.  Advent International Corp. and Bain Capital LLC, a buyout
fund started by Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, are
syndicating 1.27 billion pounds ($2 billion) in loans to finance
the purchase of U.K. credit card processor WorldPay, according
to Bloomberg data. Advent and Bain are based in Boston.  Lion Capital LLP, based in London, may close a 675 million-
euro financing this week to back its acquisition of French
frozen-food retailer Picard Surgeles.  LBO firms raise leveraged loans in the name of their
targets and use their cash flow to repay debt, triggering a fall
in the companies’ credit rating to junk, or below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Isabell Witt  in London at
   iwitt4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Faris Khan at
   Fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 