-- Bollywood’s Bachchan Lunch Auction to Raise Money for Charity
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2010-09-27T11:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/bollywood-s-bachchan-first-lunch-auction-to-raise-money-for-philanthropy.html
Amitabh Bachchan , hero of Bollywood
action blockbusters such as “Sholay” and “Zanjeer,” plans his
first lunch auction to raise money for charity, said GiveIndia,
an organization that raises money for philanthropy.  The online auction managed by Ebay Inc. started today and
will end on Oct. 2,  GiveIndia  said in an e-mailed statement.
Bachchan will select the charity at a later date, according to
the statement. The  auction  drew a high bid of 152,000 rupees
($3,374) as of 4:45 p.m. in Mumbai, data on Ebay show.  Bachchan joins  Mukesh Ambani , Asia’s richest man, and
wealthy Indians in raising money for philanthropy in the world’s
second-most populated nation. Indians spent about $7.5 billion
on charity in 2009, according to a March  report by Bain and
Company . That compares with $300 billion contributed by the U.S.
in the period. Warren Buffett, the world’s third-richest man,
raised a record $2.63 million at his 11th lunch auction in June.  Bachchan was named the “Greatest Star of the Millennium”
by BBC News online users in 1999. He also hosted the Indian
version of “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?” from 2000 to 2005.  The Joy of Giving Week, organized by GiveIndia last year
raised 1.2 million rupees by auctioning an opportunity to
participate in a cricket coaching camp with the sport’s leading
run-scorer  Sachin Tendulkar .  “The Sachin auction was one of the largest auctions that
EBay conducted in India,” said Hema Lumba, a volunteer with the
Joy of Giving Week.  Bachchan in “Zanjeer,” or Chain, played a police officer
out to punish the killers of his parents, while in the 1975
movie “Sholay,” or Embers, he plays the role of a petty thief,
who along with his partner fights a bandit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net . 