-- Japanese Bonds Rise a Fifth Day on BOJ Easing Speculation, Auction Demand
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2010-09-28T06:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/bonds-may-advance-a-fifth-day-on-speculation-central-bank-to-ease-further.html
Japanese  bonds  rose for a fifth day
on speculation the central bank may introduce new measures to
keep borrowing costs low as soon as its policy meeting next week.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  dropped to the lowest level this
month on concern tomorrow’s Tankan survey will show the stronger
yen slowed the improvement of business confidence, boosting
demand for the safety of debt. Bonds also extended their winning
streak to the longest in eight weeks after demand increased at a
2.6 trillion yen ($31 billion) auction of two-year notes.  “The BOJ is being pressured to do something, and the only
question left is when to do it and what easing measures it will
take,” said  Shuntaro Take , deputy general manager for corporate
investment at Tokio Marine & Nichido Life Insurance Co. “The
10-year yield is expected to edge down toward 0.9 percent.”  The  yield  on the 10-year bond fell three basis points to
0.96 percent as of 3:32 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1 percent
security due September 2020 gained 0.273 yen to 100.363 yen.  The yield earlier fell to 0.955 percent, the lowest since
Aug. 27. The 10-year yield has dropped 12.5 basis points so far
this quarter.  Ten-year bond futures for December delivery climbed 0.22 to
143.05 at the afternoon end of trading on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, the highest close since Aug. 25.  The Bank of Japan may buy more short-term government notes
to hold down borrowing costs, Nikkei News reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  BOJ Meeting  The central bank next meets to review monetary policy on
Oct. 4-5. The BOJ added 10 trillion yen in funds to the banking
system at an emergency meeting on Aug. 30, boosting its lending
program to 30 trillion yen.  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said yesterday the central bank
is prepared to ease policy further should the yen become a
bigger risk to the economy.  “If market participants are inclined to think the central
bank will maintain its very accommodative policy for longer, the
yields on medium- to long-term bonds will drop,”  Kazuhiko Sano ,
chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo Securities Co., wrote in a
report today.  Japan unilaterally sold the yen on Sept. 15 after the
currency climbed to a 15-year high versus the dollar. A stronger
yen reduces the value of overseas sales at Japanese companies
when repatriated.  The quarterly Tankan index of sentiment among Japan’s
largest manufacturers rose by 6 points in September, the
smallest increase since March 2009, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists before the BOJ report tomorrow.  Two-Year Sale  Today’s sale of two-year notes drew bids for 5.75 times the
amount on offer, the highest bid-to-cover ratio since June 2005.
The lowest-accepted price was 99.92, surpassing the 99.915
estimated by traders in a Bloomberg survey.  “The auction result is very good,” said  Satoshi Yamada ,
chief quantitative analyst at Tokyo-based Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc.  The Ministry of Finance may issue more Treasury bills to
support increased government spending,  Christian Carrillo ,
Tokyo-based head of fixed-income strategy at Societe Generale SA,
wrote today in a note to clients.  Such a large increase in sales “would significantly reduce
the bullish supply/demand imbalance,” Carrillo wrote, adding
that investors should sell 10-year bonds.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has ordered his ministers to
compile stimulus measures, including a supplementary budget,
Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  told reporters today in Tokyo.
Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said new bond sales are
“undesirable” to fund stimulus, while Kaieda said the
government should avoid relying on bond sales “too easily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  