-- Brazil's Bovespa Advances, Extending Four-Week Rally, on China Profits
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-09-27T20:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-on-china-industrial-companies-profits.html
The  Bovespa  stock index rose to the
highest level since April as an increase in Chinese industrial
profits boosted the outlook for economic growth in Brazil’s
largest trade partner.  Vale SA, the iron-ore producer whose biggest export market
is China, jumped to the highest price in five months.
Homebuilder  Gafisa SA , Brazil’s second-biggest homebuilder by
revenue, rose the most in eight weeks after Valor Economico
reported that billionaire  Eike Batista  is considering purchasing
real-estate companies.  Cosan SA Industria e Comercio , which
shares control of the world’s biggest sugar-cane processor,
gained for the first time in a week as sugar prices climbed.  The  Bovespa  increased 0.9 percent to 68,815.97, the highest
level since April 26, at the close of trading in Sao Paulo at 4
p.m. New York time. Forty-one stocks rose on the index while 25
fell. The real weakened 0.1 percent to 1.7124 per dollar.  “This shows that Chinese demand should continue to be
heated in coming years despite signs of deceleration,” said
 Joao Pedro Brugger , who helps oversee 70 million reais ($40.9
million) at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil.
“That’s very positive for Vale.”  The Bovespa sank on Sept. 24, paring a fourth week of
gains, after Petroleo Brasileiro SA dropped and Bank of America
Corp. said steel prices will likely fall in the country.
Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge has rebounded 18 percent from a
May 20 low.  Petrobras Shares  The Bovespa fluctuated in trading earlier today, falling as
much as 0.3 percent as Petrobras, Brazil’s state oil producer,
followed a decline in the price of crude. The stock rebounded
later in the session, rising 0.8 percent to 26.50 reais.  “Petrobras shares debuting today bring volatility to the
index,” said Brugger. Petrobras raised as much as $70 billion
last week in the world’s biggest stock offering. The new shares
began trading in Sao Paulo today, according to the prospectus.  Vale advanced 2.1 percent to 45.60 reais, the highest price
since April 30. The stock has gained for six straight sessions.  Chinese industrial companies’ profits climbed 55 percent in
the first eight months of 2010 from a year earlier, bolstering
investment as the government pares back stimulus. Net income
increased to 2.6 trillion yuan ($389 billion), the statistics
bureau said today in an e-mail. Strength in corporate spending
may help the economy maintain momentum as the government reins
in lending from last year’s record levels and the effects from a
November 2008 stimulus package fade.  Batista’s Plan  Rossi Residencial SA , a Brazilian homebuilder, gained 1.1
percent to 16.50 reais after Morgan Stanley initiated coverage
with an “overweight” recommendation, saying the company will
benefit from the highest profit growth in the “attractive”
Brazilian real-estate industry. Gafisa rose 3.4 percent, the
most since Aug. 2, to 13.38 reais.  Batista may acquire property firms to strengthen the
position of his company Real Estate X, Valor reported, without
saying where it got the information. REX, as the company is
known, is looking at publicly traded and privately held real-
estate companies, the Sao Paulo-based newspaper said.  Batista hired  Marco Adnet , a former executive at Rossi, to
become REX’s chief executive officer, a press official at
Batista’s holding company EBX Group Ltd. said yesterday.  Cosan increased 1 percent to 25 reais.  The  Bovespa  index trades for 12.9 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, compared with 12.6 times for the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.5 times
for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 15.1 times the reported profits
of its companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  