-- Bowie’s Cocaine-Addled Duke, Presley’s Vegas Best Revived: CDs
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2010-09-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/bowie-s-cocaine-addled-duke-presley-s-vegas-best-revived-on-cd-reviews.html
David Bowie ’s diet in late 1975
consisted of peppers, milk and cocaine.  The singer was rake thin, obsessed with European electro-
pop and philosopher  Friedrich Nietzsche , and seeing visions as
he stumbled into a Los Angeles studio. Staying up for days on
amphetamines, Bowie knocked out a 10th studio LP.  The title track “Station to Station” meanders for more
than 10 minutes. The lines “it’s not the side effects of the
cocaine, I’m thinking that it must be love” are followed by the
“it’s too late” chorus.  “TVC15” takes five minutes to absurdly lament a fictional
girlfriend who is surreally eaten by a television.  It may sound like a train crash, but it’s one of Bowie’s
best. The case is reinforced with the 1976 album’s reissue today
in remastered form, with extra tracks from a concert at the
Nassau Coliseum.  Bowie, now 63, has said he can’t remember much of the
recording session. The LP starts with him announcing “the
return of the thin white duke” -- the title of the first
chapter of a planned autobiography.  “Golden Years,” a song that was offered to  Elvis Presley ,
reprises the sound of Bowie’s 1975 “Young Americans” while
“Stay” limbers up the pulsating rhythms of his Berlin phase
that followed.  The highlight is the crooning “Wild Is the Wind,” a
 Sinatra -style reading of a ballad originally done by  Johnny
Mathis  as the title tune for a 1957 movie. Rating: ****.  Elvis, Miles  Elvis fans marking the 75th anniversary of his birth
already have had “On Stage,” which expands the original with
material from “Elvis in Person” and rehearsal shows from 1969.
There’s a fine run-through of “The Wonder of You.” The Vegas
gigs had the energy of the TV-special comeback that Presley did
just before and none of the bloated excess that later marked his
dinner performances before swooning matrons. Rating: ***.  Orders are being taken for “The Complete  Elvis Presley 
Masters”: more than 814 recordings, including 103 rarities on
30 CDs over 35 hours with a 240-page book and a price tag of
about $749 for shipping on or before Oct. 19.  Miles Davis  devotees have the Legacy 40th anniversary
edition of his 1970 fusion of rock and jazz, “Bitches Brew,”
including a DVD of a Copenhagen show from the same period. For
those with fatter wallets, “The Genius of Miles Davis” 43-CD
set comes in a trumpet case on Oct. 26, with a T-shirt, Davis
lithograph and trumpet mouthpiece. It also costs $749.  The Davis and Presley box sets contain the cornerstones of
contemporary rock and jazz, though there are tighter greatest-
hits collections that are better introductions to both artists.  R.E.M., Cure  For those with less time and cash to spare, reissues
include beautifully done remasters of two indie-rock pearls.  R.E.M.’s third album, in 1985, broke with the band’s habit
of recording at its base in Athens, Georgia. “Fables of the
Reconstruction” now comes with the simple U.S. demos of the
songs it later polished in Britain. Rating: ***.  The Cure’s “Disintegration,” the eighth studio album by
 Robert Smith ’s band, appeared too gloomy for airplay in 1989.
Now it’s lovingly augmented by unreleased tracks from Smith’s
home studio and a longer version of “Entreat,” a live disc
recorded at Wembley Arena. Rating: ***.  The  David Bowie  album is on EMI and released in the U.S. 
today, priced at $34.98 for the three-disc version or $165 for a 
deluxe box with 5 CDs, a DVD and three LPs.  “The Complete  Elvis Presley  Masters” is on RCA/Legacy and
available from  http://www.completeelvis.com . Also available in
limited edition is “The Genius of  Miles Davis ” from
Columbia/Legacy at  http://www.geniusofmilesdavis.com , $749 each.  The special editions of “On Stage” and “Bitches Brew”
are from Sony Legacy, “ Fables of the Reconstruction ” from EMI
and “ Disintegration ” from Rhino Records at prices starting at
$16. Download fees vary across services.  ( Mark Beech  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 