-- BP Credit Swaps Imply Investment Grade, Moody’s Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2010-09-27T22:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/bp-credit-swaps-rebound-to-trade-at-investment-grade-level-moody-s-says.html
BP Plc  has regained its  investment-
grade status  in the eyes of credit investors, more than two
months after containing a leak that spewed an estimated 4.9
million barrels of crude oil in the Gulf of Mexico.  Credit-default swaps protecting against losses on BP debt
for five years fell 2.9 basis points to 189 as of 5:24 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA. The contracts have
declined from at least 631 basis points on June 16, CMA data
show.  BP’s credit-swap prices soared to levels implying the debt
was speculative grade after an explosion on board the Deepwater
Horizon killed 11 workers on April 20. The swaps declined enough
on Sept. 23 to imply the London-based company is rated Baa3, the
lowest step of investment grade, Moody’s Corp.’s capital markets
research group said today. It’s the first time since June the
contracts signaled the company should be rated above junk by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s grades the company’s debt A2, four levels above the
implied rating, Bloomberg data show.  At their peak, the contracts priced in almost 40 percent
odds that BP would default within five years, CMA data show.
Prices now show a 20 percent probability of default, based on an
expectation that investors would recover 55 percent of face
value of the company’s bonds if it failed to meet its
obligations, according to the data provider.  Risk Drops  The credit swaps traded at 42 basis points the day before
the rig explosion. No oil has leaked from the well since July
15.  Swaps on BP,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and Transocean Ltd.
are among the biggest decliners this quarter, according to CMA.
Contracts on BP have fallen 66 percent, the data show. Swaps on
Anadarko, which has a 25 percent stake in the well, eased 64
percent and those on Transocean, which owned the rig, have
dropped by 59 percent since June 30, according to the data.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 1.4 basis point to a mid-price of 110 basis points,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The
benchmark, which typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates, began a new series Sept. 20 at 108.4 basis points.  Weak Manufacturing  “There was a downgrade in the European sovereign-slash-
banking space, so that weakened the tone in the market,” Morgan
Stanley strategist  Adam Richmond  said. “The Dallas Fed number
was also weaker than expected, which did not help the market
either.”  The Dallas Fed’s report showed that manufacturing activity
in Texas fell 17.7 points, compared with a 6 point loss forecast
in a Bloomberg survey.  The cost to insure against a default by Ireland rose after
Moody’s Investors Service cut Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s debt to
the lowest investment-grade rating and said it may reduce the
Dublin-based lender to junk unless the government guarantees
bondholders against losses. Credit swaps protecting Ireland’s
debt climbed 26.6 basis points to a record high end-of-day level
of 489.8, CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 0.5 basis point to 113.3, and
the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield ratings added 1.5 basis points
to 517.8, Markit prices show.  Southwest Rises  Credit-default swaps on Dallas-based  Southwest Airlines Co. 
climbed after the largest U.S. low-fare carrier agreed to buy
 AirTran Holdings Inc.  for about $1.4 billion in cash and stock,
giving it access to Atlanta, the world’s busiest airport. The
purchase is Southwest’s largest in at least five years,
according to Bloomberg data. The contracts increased 3.4 basis
points to 141.9, CMA data show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shannon D. Harrington  in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  