-- California May Seek $5 Billion From Wall Street, Lockyer Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-09-28T02:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/california-may-seek-5-billion-from-wall-street-lockyer-says.html
California is lining up a short-
term loan of more than $5 billion from a group of Wall Street
banks to tide the state over with enough cash after a record-
long budget impasse, Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  said.  The state may borrow the money from Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and RBC
Capital Markets once a budget is enacted and would repay the
funds with an estimated $10 billion of notes it will sell in
October or November, Lockyer said today in New York. The state
can’t issue those notes until a budget is signed.  California has been operating without a budget since the
start of its fiscal year July 1 amid a dispute over how to erase
a $19.1 billion deficit. The state is in danger of having to
shutter school construction, roadwork and other public-works
projects and force private contractors to put as many as 10,000
employees out of work because of the impasse, Lockyer said at a
conference of the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association .  “We need to get that done,” Lockyer said.  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and top lawmakers are
scheduled to meet at noon tomorrow to continue negotiations on
the budget after announcing they’d agreed to a “framework” to
fill the deficit Sept. 24. Schwarzenegger, a Republican
approaching the end of his term, and Democrats, who hold a
majority in the Legislature, disagreed on how much spending to
cut and whether to raise taxes to fill the gap.  JPMorgan Loan  California last year borrowed $1.5 billion in August from
JPMorgan at an annual interest rate of 3 percent after a similar
budget impasse forced the state to issue IOUs to pay bills. The
loan was repaid when Lockyer sold $8.8 billion of one-year notes
one month later. The state typically issues such notes in the
second or third quarter each year, when cash-on-hand is low, and
repays it from later tax collections.  Lockyer said JPMorgan has committed to the largest portion
of this year’s loan, though he didn’t say how much.  The Department of Finance has identified about $6 billion
of bonding needs through the end of November. Lockyer has been
waiting to sell the debt pending approval of a budget. He has
warned lawmakers and Schwarzenegger that they need to complete a
budget by the end of next week to allow time to sell bonds
needed to keep funding public works projects.  That’s because of a self-imposed “dark period” in
December and early January, when Lockyer typically doesn’t sell
debt while new economic data are prepared, along with a new
budget proposal for the coming fiscal year. The governor must
deliver the new spending plan to the Legislature in the second
week of January.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  