-- Flaherty Says He'll Protect Recovery, 98% of Stimulus Funding Committed
-- B y   A l e x a n d r e   D e s l o n g c h a m p s   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2010-09-27T17:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/canada-finance-ministry-says-98-of-stimulus-funding-has-been-committed.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today that his government would “protect” the
country’s economic recovery while working to reduce the deficit.  “As the recovery becomes more secure we are working to
make sure that federal stimulus winds down,” Flaherty said,
adding that he would “take action as necessary to protect the
economic recovery.”  Flaherty was speaking in Montreal today after releasing a
progress report on the stimulus program that showed it boosted
Canadian  economic growth  by an average of 1.5 percentage points
each quarter since the second quarter of last year and created
or helped protect about 200,000 jobs.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government released a
fiscal plan in March that pledged to balance the budget within
five years by ending stimulus spending in March and controlling
spending for defense, international aid and government
operations. Canada had a record deficit that will surpass C$50
billion ($49 billion) in the fiscal year that ended March 31,
Flaherty said Sept. 17.  “Our primary focus remains the economy,” Flaherty said.
“Although our prospects are much brighter than they were a
couple of years ago, we still have challenges to meet. That’s
why the next few months are so critical for our country.”  Moderating Growth  Canada’s expansion is moderating after surging to a 5.8
percent annualized growth rate in the first quarter. That pace
slowed to 2 percent in the April-June period and economists
forecast that Statistics Canada will report the  economy shrank 
in July. The country’s  unemployment  rate rose to 8.1 percent in
August, from 8 percent in July and 6.1 percent two years ago.  Companies such as  Bell Aliant  Regional Communications
Income Fund and Barrett Xplore Inc. are benefiting as
governments spend on infrastructure projects including a  high-
speed Internet network  in eastern Ontario.  Lawmakers from  opposition parties  have said the finance
minister should extend the March 31 deadline so that
infrastructure projects can be completed.  “This is a government that seems to count signs more
carefully than it counts the unemployed,” opposition Liberal
Party leader  Michael Ignatieff  said before the update was
released.  The government will be “fair and reasonable” when
deciding whether projects will still receive funding if they
aren’t completed by the deadline, Flaherty said.  “If there are situations where there’s only a little bit
more to be done to complete the project, we’re not going to be
unreasonable about it,” Flaherty said in response to a question
from a reporter.  Flaherty predicted in March that the country’s budget gap
will narrow to C$1.8 billion for the fiscal year that begins
April 2014 as stimulus measures expire, revenue recovers and
spending cuts are implemented. Canada spent about 4 percent of
gross domestic product on stimulus measures in 2009 and 2010,
according to government  figures.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net ;
 Frederic Tomesco  in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 