-- Chi-X Japan to Triple Number of Stocks to 800 by October, CEO Meyer Says
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   K o t a r o   T s u n e t o m i
-- 2010-09-27T00:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/chi-x-japan-to-triple-number-of-stocks-to-800-by-october-ceo-meyer-says.html
Chi-X Japan KK , which began a
proprietary trading system on July 29, plans to more than triple
the number of stocks traded on its platform by the beginning of
next month, Chief Executive Officer  Joseph Meyer  said.  The company will increase the number of stocks traded on
its platform to about 800 from 234, Meyer said in an interview
in Tokyo. It also expects the number of brokerages using its
platform to climb to 15 from 9 by the end of next year and
eventually attract investors who have not entered the Japanese
market, he said.  “Our success is not a percentage of the market but our
primary measure of success is bringing and attracting new
traders to this market who otherwise would not have traded
here,” Meyer said.  Stocks traded on Japan’s seven PTS markets reached a record
high of 520.7 million shares in August. That was a 21 percent
increase from July and accounted for 1.27 percent of the shares
publicly traded in the nation, according to data provided by the
Japan Securities Dealers Association. The jump came after the
 Japan Securities Clearing Corp.’s  in July began offering
financial settlement for proprietary systems, which minimizes
the risk that either party in a transaction will fail to deliver.  “There were settlement risks in PTS trading, but the risks
decreased as JSCC started to offer clearinghouse services,”
said Takashi Hiratsuka, trading group leader at the asset
management department of Resona Bank Ltd.  Competition Benefits  Besides Chi-X Japan, Kabu.com Securities Co., SBI Japannext
Co., Matsui Securities Co., Monex Inc., Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. and Instinet Japan Ltd. offer  proprietary systems  in Japan.  “If price competition contributes to reducing investors’
execution costs, that’s positive for the whole stock market,”
Tsuyoshi Masuda, deputy director of the stock market department
at the Tokyo Stock Exchange, said by telephone.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange introduced its Arrowhead system on
Jan. 4, which slashes processing time for trades to 2
milliseconds from 2 to 3 seconds.  “TSE has improved the trading system and we, as a mother
market, have taken a role of self-regulation to support
compliance in the market,” TSE’s Masuda said.  Chi-X Japan is considering providing co-location service,
which enables customers to install their servers near those of
the exchange to reduce transmission time. It also plans to seek
approval to offer short-selling, Meyer said. No Japanese PTS
operators offer either co-location services or short selling, he
said. The Tokyo Stock Exchange has offered co-location service
since May 2009.  To contact the reporters on the story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
 Kotaro Tsunetomi  in Tokyo at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 