-- Chilean Peso Strengthens for a Fifth Straight Day on Growth, Weak Dollar
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2010-09-27T19:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/chilean-peso-strengthens-for-a-fifth-straight-day-on-growth-weak-dollar.html
Chile’s peso rose for a fifth day,
the longest winning streak in more than five weeks, after
economic growth accelerated and the dollar declined.  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 486.17 per U.S. dollar, the
highest since June 2008, from 486.65 on Sept. 24. The peso has
gained 12 percent this quarter, more than any other major
currency in Latin America tracked by Bloomberg, as traders
priced in interest-rate increases and economists raised growth
forecasts. The currency rose for five straight days during the
period ended Aug. 18.  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  2
percentage points in the past four months, and traders expect a
fifth straight increase in October, according to a Sept. 21
central bank survey. The National Statistics Institute may
tomorrow report that Chilean industrial output grew the most
since April 2008, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “Chile is the outstanding economy in the region in terms
of credit strength, growth prospects and inflation, and that is
reflected in the currency,” said  Moises Junca , chief Latin
American currency strategist at BBVA Bancomer in Mexico City.
“The question is when the central bank changes from equivocal
intervention to more concrete measures.”  Should the peso pass 480 per dollar, the central bank could
increase verbal intervention, Junca said.  The government is monitoring the peso’s gain, Deputy
Finance Minister  Rodrigo Alvarez  said today in Santiago.  ‘Less Dramatic’  Central bank board member  Rodrigo Vergara  said there are
other “less dramatic” ways to address currency appreciation
aside from direct interventions in the market, according to
remarks published today on the bank’s website.  Means of limiting the impact of a stronger currency include
promoting derivatives markets to help protect companies
vulnerable to volatile exchange rates, Vergara said in remarks
prepared for a Sept. 24 speech in Prague. A bill sent to
parliament on Sept. 8 seeks to clarify tax treatment of
derivatives, partly to help companies offset currency risk.  Chilean nominal and inflation-linked interest-rate swap
rates declined today, as traders reacted to the currency’s climb
by cutting bets for interest-rate increases.  ‘More Slowly’  “The market at least is expecting that the central bank
could raise rates a lot more slowly as the exchange rate slows
inflation in the medium term,” said  Jorge Selaive , chief
economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones in Santiago.  The one-year swap rate in pesos fell five basis points to
4.03 percent, the lowest level since Sept. 14. The one-year
inflation-linked swap rate declined nine basis points to 0.71
percent, the lowest since Sept. 10, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Nominal  interest-rate swap yields  reflect traders’
estimates of the likely average interest rate over the life of
the contract.  Were the central bank to shift to a less hawkish monetary
policy stance, it could risk missing its inflation target,
Selaive said.  Zeina Latif , senior economist for Latin America at RBS
Securities Inc. in Sao Paulo, sees “no reason for the central
bank to change the pace of tightening,” she said. “The economy
is performing well, the bank’s forecast for growth is reasonable
and we may see some acceleration of inflation in the medium
term” because of rising grain prices throughout the region, she
said.  The bank may raise the rate to 4 percent by the end of this
year, Latif said. It is currently 2.5 percent.  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net  or
 Randall Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at  