-- China, India Stand to Profit as U.S. Sanctions Hit Iran's Persian Carpets
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2010-09-27T16:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/china-india-stand-to-profit-as-u-s-sanctions-hit-iran-s-persian-carpets.html
Iran’s carpet industry is likely to
lose a major source of revenue when U.S. sanctions banning the
import of the Persian carpets are implemented starting in two
days, an Iranian industry expert said.  The export of hand-woven carpets generates about $500
million annually for Iran’s economy, with 20 percent of the
total earned in the U.S. market, Ali-Reza Ghaderi, founder and
head of the  Persian Carpet Think Tank , said today in a phone
interview from Tehran.  Banning the entry of Iranian hand-woven carpets into the
U.S. is “a clear mistake,” Ghaderi said. “The carpet industry
is in the hands of the private sector from scratch to end
product and is not backed by the Iranian government. Instead of
hurting the regime this will harm Iranian families involved in
the business.”  The U.S. has spearheaded efforts to isolate Iran over the
country’s insistence on pursuing uranium enrichment as part of
its nuclear activities. The United Nations imposed a fourth
round of sanctions on the Persian Gulf nation in June. On July
1, the U.S. passed additional sanctions.  A ban on Iranian imports, including Persian rugs, comes
into effect on Sept. 29 as part of those measures, Ghaderi said.  ‘Big Business’  “The U.S. decision to ban sales of carpets should not be
viewed as merely a curiosity,” said Robert Powell, an economist
with the  Economist Intelligence Unit  in New York. “Carpet
weaving is big business in Iran and one of the country’s biggest
employers,” Powell wrote in e-mailed comments. The sale of
carpets to the U.S. has increased recently even as ties between
the two nations deteriorated, he said.  Iran’s carpet sales are also rising elsewhere, as the  Trade
Promotion Organization of Iran  has targeted Asia with some
success as a market for Iranian non-oil products, Powell said.
Still, the move will have “a considerable impact on the local
industry,” he said.  Ghaderi said he was also concerned that sanctions would
provide an opportunity for countries that duplicate Persian
carpets’ motifs and for competitors that supply goods of lesser
quality.  “When the supply source is shut it leads to a wave of
demand and this will be shifted towards pieces of lesser
quality,” Ghaderi said. He named China, Nepal, India and
Pakistan as countries where there are companies that copy
Persian carpets as a business.  Iran produces about 5 million square meters (53 million
square feet) of woven carpets annually, of which 4 million are
exported, Ghaderi said. Iran’s commercial export of carpets
began about a century ago, he said.  Persian carpets motifs have roots in the Iranian culture
and are inspired by traditional, national and sometimes
religious beliefs, Ghaderi said. Persian carpets are an
expression of Iran’s culture much as the country’s architecture
or calligraphy, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ladane Nasseri  in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Langan at 
 hlangan@bloomberg.net . 