-- China Mortgage Bond Sales Probably Led Tumble in Foreign Holdings of Debt
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-09-27T19:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/china-mortgage-bond-sales-probably-led-drop-in-agency-holdings.html
A  record  tumble in the holdings of
U.S. agency debt and government-backed mortgage bonds by central
banks and similar foreign investors probably reflected sales of
home-loan securities by China, according to Wrightson ICAP LLC.  The amount of debt, including notes that fund government-
supported mortgage financier  Fannie Mae , held by official
foreign investors plunged $57 billion in the week ended Sept. 15
to $752.5 billion, according to Federal Reserve  data . The
category also encompasses mortgage-backed securities, or MBS,
backed by loans on U.S. houses and condominiums.  “Our guess is that the steep slide in that week reflects
the settlement of forward sales of MBS that had taken place over
the course of the previous month,”  Lou Crandall , chief
economist at Wrightson in Jersey City, New Jersey, said today in
a note to clients. Selling began “just after discussions of the
possibility of a government-assisted refi wave began to surface
this summer.”  The market has never seen such large declines in the
foreign investors’ holdings of mortgage bonds guaranteed by
government-supported Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or federal agency
Ginnie Mae, even when countries slashed their investments in
corporate debt issued by the companies in the months before and
after the U.S. seized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2008,
Crandall said in a telephone interview.  Holdings Fall  Based on weekly averages, the investors’ combined holdings
reached a record $984 billion in July 2008, before falling to
$760 billion in November 2009, and then expanding back to $831
billion last month, the Fed data show.  China is “far and away the largest foreign investor” in
agency mortgage bonds, so would have led the recent sales,
Crandall said. The country held $358 billion of the debt as of
June 2009. Japan was second, with $96 billion, according to the
most-recent Treasury Department data cited by Crandall.  Any seller may have tried to complete its sales before the
Fed data could tip the market to its plan, he said.  “It is also possible, however, that this represents an
ongoing adjustment that will continue to redirect cash from MBS
to the Treasury market in the coming months,” he added.  The Fed’s figures don’t distinguish between holdings of
mortgage securities and the corporate debt of government-related
companies including Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Loan Bank
system.  Calculating the Drop  The difference between the figure reported for Sept. 15 and
the average of $796.6 billion reported for the week ended that
day shows that most of the decline came on Sept. 14, a so-called
 settlement date  for Class A mortgage-backed securities, Crandall
wrote. The holdings dropped again, to $749 billion, on Sept. 22.  Crandall called the most recent decline in overall central
bank and sovereign holdings “massive,” though not as much as
the Fed reported.  The actual drop was probably less because of the
methodology the Fed uses, Crandall said. The calculation is
based on the original face amount of the securities and ignores
any repayments from refinancing or home sales. Either of those
actions would reduce the size of actual holdings.  Two signs the overall decline in holdings by foreign
investors was concentrated in mortgage-bond sales rather than
sales of the agencies’ corporate debt relate to when the debt
matures and the fact that prices for agency corporate debt have
been little changed, according to a Sept. 24 report by Barclays
Capital analysts  Rajiv Setia  and  James Ma .  Temporary Change?  The recent tumble probably doesn’t represent permanent
change as foreign exchange reserve balances continue to grow,
the analysts’ wrote.  “Ultimately in a slower-growth, lower-rate environment,
the reach for yield should lead that official demand back into
agency debt/MBS -- the latter in particular because valuations
have cheapened substantially,” Setia and Ma wrote.  The so-called  option-adjusted spread  on Fannie Mae’s 30-
year current-coupon mortgage bonds, or estimated yield over
benchmark swap rates after accounting for prepayment
uncertainty, widened from negative 0.13 percentage point since
July 30 to positive 0.08 percentage point as of 10 a.m. in New
York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The gap widened amid speculation that the government could
loosen refinancing rules for borrowers who already have Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac mortgages, creating more lower-coupon
securities and causing investors holding higher-coupon bonds to
receive their money back more quickly at par.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 