-- China’s ‘Kid’ Law Firms Lure Attorneys From U.S., U.K. Rivals
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2010-09-27T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/china-s-kid-law-firms-lure-attorneys-from-london-new-york-competitors.html
King & Wood, the Beijing-based law
firm that advised on the world’s largest initial public offering,
isn’t like the City or Wall Street rivals it worked with on the
deal, International Managing Partner  Rupert Li  said.  “We’re kids. Light years behind,” Li said of his 17-year-
old firm compared with others like the foreign legal  advisers  on
the Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.’s $22.1 billion share sale.  Maybe not much longer, though. Firms like King & Wood,
which cut its legal teeth helping clients comply with Chinese
law, are now hiring international lawyers like Li, who used to
work for the U.K.’s highest-grossing firm  Clifford Chance LLP .  They’ve also opened offices outside mainland China to offer
advice on local law in places like Hong Kong, the former British
colony where Agricultural Bank listed.  “By doing that they could try to eliminate the middlemen -
-the U.S. and other big international firms who guide their
clients into China or who do the big IPOs of Chinese
companies,” said  Joe Sevack , a Hong Kong-based partner of
Atlanta’s  Troutman Sanders LLP . “You gotta admire their
ambition.”  Another Beijing firm, Jun He Law Offices, this year hired
James Zhu from Seattle-based  Perkins Coie LLP  and Steven Cui
from Cleveland-based  Jones Day  to open a Silicon Valley office,
its second in the U.S.  Jun He’s midtown  Manhattan office  was the first overseas
for any Chinese firm when it opened in 1993. That was 10 years
after the Communist country first allowed a private law firm to
set up in the southern province of Guangdong, where a special
economic zone was established to attract foreign investment and
help spark China’s economic transformation.  Dynamic Regulation  A complex, dynamic regulatory regime has developed, helping
a group of elite Chinese law firms grow, said  Robert Chu , who
headed the Beijing office of New York-based Sullivan & Cromwell
LLP from 2007 to 2009.  “The secular rise of these Chinese firms is part of a
seismic shift in the competitive landscape for international
firms in China,” said Chu, who now heads his firm’s Australia
practice.  The new international focus of Chinese firms is “very
similar to Baker & McKenzie’s growth on the back of capital
flows, following clients’ expansion outside their domestic
market,” said  David Fleming , China managing partner of that law
firm, which grew from its Chicago base to become the highest-
grossing in the U.S., with offices in 39 countries.  Brand Building  King & Wood learned from the international law firms that
it’s worked with and wants to build a brand as one of China’s
best firms, said Li, 53, a Chinese national who graduated from
 Columbia Law School  and New York University.  “In 20 years time, there will be a cluster of extremely
good, full-service Chinese firms that resemble the operations of
foreign firms and with a commitment to legal excellence,” said
Li, who had been a member of Clifford Chance’s partnership
council and its chief representative in Beijing until May.  With 190,000 lawyers, China has one attorney for every
6,977 people, compared with one for every 303 in the U.S. and
for each 393 in the U.K. as of 2008, according to a March report
by London-based  Jomati Consultants LLP .  “The quality can become patchy once you get beyond the
leading firms and individual lawyers,” said David Flavell, Asia
Pacific general counsel for Groupe  Danone SA , the world’s
largest yogurt maker, which last year settled two years of
disputes with its former Chinese partner.  Growth Opportunities  Law firms from 21 foreign countries still see local
opportunities from China’s long-term growth and have opened 224
offices on mainland China and 69 in Hong Kong.  The internationalization of Chinese law firms is a positive
sign of how China is engaging in world markets, said Fleming of
Baker & McKenzie, which ranked third amongst legal advisers on
China-related mergers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Chinese companies have made $105 billion worth of
overseas acquisitions this year, a 10 percent increase from the
same period in 2009, only those in charge of the largest of the
deals are paying for legal advice, according to  Robert Lewis ,
who joined Shanghai’s largest law firm AllBright Law Offices
from London-based Lovells LLP in May.  “There are some transactions which all of us would
consider to be quite significant where there’s no outside
counsel involved at all,” Lewis said, citing a large steel
company whose general counsel allowed the seller’s lawyers to
draft the documents and only hired a firm in the target country.  Market Gap  “We’re trying to build a team and fill that gap in market
coverage,” said Lewis, who didn’t identify the steel company.  King & Wood’s hires this year span practices from
international disputes and trade to intellectual property.
Besides Li they include  Meg Utterback  from  Pillsbury Winthrop
Shaw Pittman LLP , Liu Cheng from  DLA Piper LLP ,  Matthew Seiden 
of Washington-based Arnold & Porter LLP and Huang Wen of
Sullivan & Cromwell.  Dacheng Law Offices, China’s largest firm with 1,406
lawyers according to  Asian Legal Business  magazine, now has 29
offices in China, including its headquarters in Beijing. It has
opened in Los Angeles, Singapore, and Taipei, and plans New York
and Hanoi offices by the end of the year.  “These firms used to only practice Chinese law but now are
picking up international practices and opening offices all
around the world,” said  Peter Siembab , who heads Nomura
Holdings Inc.’s legal team for investment banking in Asia
outside Japan. “They will continue to gain market share from
the U.S. and European law firms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Debra Mao  in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  