-- China Unicom Unit Sells $1.84 Billion of Convertible Bonds; Shares Decline
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-28T09:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/china-unicom-unit-to-sell-1-8-billion-of-convertible-bonds-e-mail-shows.html
A unit of  China Unicom (Hong Kong)
Ltd. , the nation’s second-largest wireless operator, sold $1.84
billion worth of convertible bonds maturing in 2015 as the
company invests to expand its third-generation network.  The notes carry a 0.75 percent annual coupon and can be
exchanged for shares when China Unicom  stock  rises to HK$15.85,
about 36 percent more than yesterday’s closing price, according
to a regulatory filing today. Funds will be used for working
capital and “general corporate purposes,” the filing said. The
shares fell the most in more than four months.  China Unicom posted a steeper-than-estimated 54 percent
drop in second-quarter profit last month, after China’s only
carrier selling  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone offered more handset
discounts and raised marketing spending. Unicom is expanding its
3G network as it tries to win market share from China Mobile Ltd.  “We expected them to raise debt for all these capital
expenditures they are doing,”  Paul Wuh , an analyst at Samsung
Securities Co. in Hong Kong, who  rates  Unicom shares “sell,”
said in an interview today. “They won’t turn free cash flow
positive until the end of next year, and they will need debt to
fund their capital expenditures until then.”  The bonds were issued by a Unicom unit called Billion
Express Investments Ltd.  ‘Strong Capital Support’  “This will provide strong capital support for the
development of our 3G and broadband businesses,”  Sophia Tso , a
Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Unicom, said in an e-mail today.  Assuming full conversion at the initial price of HK$15.85 a
share, the bonds will be convertible into approximately 900
million shares, representing about 3.8 percent of the issued
shares before the transaction.  China Unicom fell 4.3 percent to close at HK$11.20 in Hong
Kong  trading  today, the largest decline since May 17. The shares
have risen 9 percent this year while Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang
Seng  Index  gained 1.1 percent. Of 29 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg, 14 recommend investors buy Unicom stock and 10
recommend selling.  “Investors may not welcome the additional fund raising
activities from Unicom especially relating to a possible
dilution of shares,” Deutsche Bank AG equity analyst  Alan Hellawell  wrote in a report to clients today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , China International Capital Corp.
Ltd. and Nomura Holdings Inc. arranged the convertible bond sale.
The issuer and investors both have options to redeem the notes
after three years.  -- Bei Hu ,  Sarah McDonald  and  Edmond Lococo . Editors:  Ed Johnson ,
 Jonathan Annells   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  