-- China to Bar Some Developers' Land Purchases, Add Supplies to Damp Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-27T04:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/china-to-bar-some-developers-land-purchases-add-supplies-to-damp-prices.html
China will bar companies that have
held land for more than a year without developing it from buying
additional plots, seeking a “reasonable” correction in the
nation’s home prices, the government said.  The government also will increase land available for
smaller, affordable apartments in cities with high prices,
according to a  statement  on the Ministry of Land and Resources’
website today. No parcels should be used to build large, high-
end homes before the supply of government-supported housing is
met, it added.  China is clamping down on land hoarding after record land
prices fuelled the risk of a housing bubble. Property  prices  in
70 major cities rose 9.3 percent in August from a year earlier,
showing the need for the government to extend a crackdown on
speculators and multiple-home purchases.  Further tightening land controls is “an important task in
continuing to contain home-price gains and promoting a
reasonable correction in housing and land prices,” the land
ministry said in the statement, jointly issued with the Ministry
of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  An  index  of Chinese property stocks in Shanghai rose 0.5
percent as of 11:30 a.m. local time, trimming this year’s loss
to 29 percent.  China Vanke Co. , the nation’s biggest listed
developer, was unchanged in Shenzhen.  Land Misuse  Developers and their controlling shareholders won’t be
allowed to participate in land auctions until they’ve taken
measures to rectify issues regarding their unused land, the
statement said. The ban also applies to companies found with
irregularities such as forged documents.  China found 3,070 cases of land misuse nationwide as of the
end of May, with 2,815 of them involving undeveloped plots, Liao
Yonglin, land-use director of the land ministry, said at a
 briefing  on Aug. 19.  The government in the southern city of Guangzhou seized
three pieces of undeveloped land from developers including
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. and Hopson Development
Holdings Ltd., the Hong Kong Economic Times reported April 29,
citing unidentified people.  China this year has raised down payments and interest rates
on second-home mortgages and restricted the number of new homes
residents can buy in some cities to avert a property bubble.
Banks should stop granting new project loans to developers that
are found speculating in land or keeping it idle, the State
Council said in April.  The government will quicken the supply of land for
government-supported projects such as public rental housing and
smaller homes, according to today’s statement. Construction
planning and land authorities should grant approvals within 10
days of applications, it added.  -- Jiang Jianguo ,  Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  John Liu , Andreea Papuc  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 jjiang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 Swong139@bloomberg.net  