-- China Group Said to Plan Formation of New Credit Rating Company This Week
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-27T10:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/china-group-said-to-plan-formation-of-new-credit-rating-company-this-week.html
China’s  National Association of
Financial Market Institutional Investors  is planning a credit
rating firm that will charge investors rather than borrowers for
risk assessments, according to a person familiar with the matter.  China Credit Rating Co. will be funded by the association,
known as NAFMII, though the venture will operate independently
with its own board of directors, the person said, asking not to
be identified because the information is private.  The ratings system developed by Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings is “irrational” and
“cannot truly reflect repayment ability,” Dagong Global Credit
Rating Co. Chairman Guan Jianzhong said in July, when the
Beijing-based company ranked U.S. government debt below that of
China citing a widening budget deficit. The Securities and
Exchange Commission said on Sept. 24 that it turned down
Dagong’s application for U.S. debt rating status.  S&P, Moody’s and Fitch drew criticism in the U.S. from
investors and officials including Financial Crisis Inquiry
Chairman  Phil Angelides  for assigning top rankings to mortgage-
linked securities that crashed when the U.S. housing market
collapsed in 2007. Senator  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat,
said in May that there’s a “staggering” conflict of interest
in the credit ratings industry, where issuers “shop around”
for the best ranking.  Independent Ratings  The ratings companies have defended themselves against the
criticism.  The current model where borrowers pay to get credit ratings
that will attract investors “causes a strong beneficial
alliance between the issuer and the ratings agency that cannot
avoid influencing the agency’s independence,” NAFMII said in a
draft 94-page report seen by Bloomberg News in July.  NAFMII was formed by the People’s Bank of China in 2007 to
help develop the country’s over-the-counter financial markets,
which span bonds, loans, foreign-exchange, commercial paper
market and gold.  The association will announce the formation of China Credit
Rating on Sept. 29, the person said. The firm will re-rate debt
that has already been graded by China’s private firms, the
person said.  -- Henry Sanderson . Editors:  Tom Kohn ,  Will McSheehy   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Sanderson  in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at   wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  