-- Shanghai's Stocks Decline on Property Tightening, Interest-Rate Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-28T07:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/china-united-communications-pudong-bank-yunnan-tin-china-equity-preview.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in
almost two weeks on concern the government will intensify
measures to curb real-estate speculation and may raise interest
rates to contain inflation.  China Merchants Bank Co.  and China Vanke Co. led declines
for financial companies and developers after China Business News
reported China will announce a new round of property tightening
measures. Ningbo Port Co., operator of the world’s second-
busiest harbor by total throughput, slid 3.5 percent on its
trading debut.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  jumped by the 10
percent limit after the Xinhua News Agency reported its parent
agreed to invest in rare-earth production.  “Banking stocks don’t present a big investment opportunity
because the market is still concerned the government will have
tight control over credit growth going forward, including
possible interest-rate increases,” said  Zhao Zifeng , who helps
oversee about $10.2 billion at China International Fund
Management Co. in Shanghai.  The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, lost 16.61, or 0.6 percent, to 2,611.35
at the 3 p.m. close, the most since Sept. 16. It rose 1.4
percent yesterday, the most in three weeks. The  CSI 300 Index 
dropped 0.8 percent to 2,880.91. The markets will be closed from
Oct. 1 to Oct. 7 for National Day.  The Shanghai index has slid 20 percent this year as the
government imposed tightening measures ranging from restrictions
on multi-house purchases to a 7.5 trillion yuan ($1.1 trillion)
annual limit on new lending by banks. The gauge has climbed 10
percent from this year’s low on July 5 on signs the nation’s
economic slowdown is stabilizing.  Banks Decline  Merchants Bank retreated 1.8 percent to 12.61 yuan.
 Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co. , the Chinese partner of
Citigroup Inc., slid 2.7 percent to 12.58 yuan. Huaxia Bank Co.,
partly owned by Deutsche Bank AG, fell 2.9 percent to 10.49 yuan.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday changed to stable from
positive the outlook on the A1 long-term deposit and senior
unsecured ratings for China’s four largest banks, including Bank
of China and Agricultural Bank of China. The outlook change
reflects the likelihood of an upgrade in their ratings has
diminished in view of their current challenges, Moody’s said.  China will announce a round of property tightening measures
“soon”, targeting second and third-home loans, the China
Business News reported today, citing an unidentified person.  Relevant Chinese government departments may jointly sign
off on trials for a property tax, the Shanghai Securities News
reported, without citing anyone. The trials may be announced
publicly soon, it said. New home prices in Shanghai rose 8
percent in the week ended Sept. 26 from the previous week, China
Business News reported today, citing property consultant
Shanghai UWin Real Estate Information Services Co.  Banking Risks  Risks remain for China’s largest banks as the government
may tighten regulation while also allowing more foreign
companies into the industry and moving toward more market
oriented interest rates, said  Andy Zhao , vice president of Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s China research team, at a briefing in
Beijing today.  A gauge  of developers dropped 1 percent today, adding to a
29 percent slide this year, after the government increased bank
reserve requirements three times and boosted downpayment
requirements on homes to curb asset bubbles.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer, fell
2.8 percent to 7.89 yuan. Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second
largest, slipped 0.6 percent to 11.19 yuan.  Inflation Outlook  Consumer prices jumped 3.5 percent from a year earlier in
August, the most in 22 months, according to the statistics
bureau. That exceeds the 2.25 percent of the one-year deposit
rate. China, which hasn’t raised interest rates since 2007, may
start increasing borrowing costs from the fourth quarter because
of accelerating inflation, large wage increases and “loose”
liquidity conditions, RBC Capital Markets said last month.  Ningbo Port, which raised 7.4 billion yuan in the country’s
sixth-largest IPO this year, dropped 3.5 percent from its sale
price to 3.57 yuan. The company reduced the size of its share
sale by 20 percent as a stock market slump deterred investors.  A gauge of consumer staples rose 1.6 percent in the CSI 300,
the most among the 10 industry groups after material stocks.
 Kweichow Moutai Co. , China’s biggest producer of baijiu liquor
by market value, added 1.2 percent to 170.78 yuan. Wuliangye
Yibin Co., the second biggest, gained 3.4 percent to 34.91 yuan.
UBS AG said the companies may boost prices as early as the
fourth quarter as they benefit from rising demand during the
holidays and faster inflation.  Yellow Wine  Zhejiang Guyuelongshan Shaoxing Wine Co.  added 3.5 percent
to 14.65 yuan. The yellow wine maker said its net income for the
first nine months may increase more than 70 percent from a year
earlier due to rising sales of rice wine and its ability to
control production costs.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd., the listed unit of nation’s
biggest maker of the lightweight metal and also called Chalco,
surged the maximum 10 percent to 10.88 yuan. Parent Aluminum
Corporation of China signed an agreement to invest 10 billion
yuan to build a rare-earth production base in Jiangxi province,
Xinhua reported yesterday.  China, which controls more than 90 percent of the rare
earths market, in July cut export quotas for this half by 72
percent to bolster prices and ensure domestic supplies of the
minerals, also used in liquid crystal displays and wind turbines.
Rising Nonferrous Metals Share Co. and Inner Mongolia Baotou
Steel Rare-Earth Hi-Tech Co., both of which are involved in
rare-earth production, are the two biggest gainers in the
Shanghai Composite this year.  ‘Dangerous’ October  October is likely to be “peculiarly dangerous” for
Chinese stocks, already Asia’s biggest loser in 2010, as the
supply of new shares soars in the month that’s historically been
the worst for the nation’s equities, according to China
International Capital Corp.  The median return in October for China’s benchmark during
the period has been negative 4.5 percent, with declines 67
percent of the time, according to  Hao Hong , a global strategist
at CICC. Some investors sell shares to repay debt due by year-
end, reducing money available for equities, he said.  This October “will also see a substantial amount of
restricted stock starting to become tradable,” Beijing-based
Hong said in a report. Shares worth 750 billion yuan will become
eligible for trading on the Shanghai market next month as the
so-called lock-up period expires, he said.  Jiangxi Copper Co. ,
China’s biggest producer of the metal, slumped 6.7 percent to
28.93 yuan as 1.28 billion of its shares became tradable as of
yesterday.  Yuan Legislation  Nobel-Prize winning economist  Robert Mundell  said U.S.
legislation to press China to raise the value of the yuan would
be a “disaster” and fail to narrow the trade deficit between
the two nations.  “This is not going to help Americans,” Mundell said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong. “This is not going
to create jobs for Americans. It’s just going to create a
disaster.”  U.S. lawmakers will vote in two days on legislation that
would let American companies petition for higher duties on
imports from China to compensate for the effect of a weak
currency. The yuan has appreciated about 2 percent against the
dollar since June 19, when China’s central bank said it would
pursue a more flexible exchange rate after keeping the currency
at about 6.83 versus the U.S. currency for almost two years.  “I don’t know what the appetite of this bill is in the
Senate to see whether it gains any traction past the House but
any possibility of passage would be a disaster for our relations
with China in my opinion,” said  Peter Boockvar , equity
strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  -- Zhang Shidong . With assistance from Lifei Zheng in Beijing.
Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Richard Frost   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  