-- China Industrial Firm Profits Climb 55%, Helping Economy Maintain Momentum
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-27T04:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/china-industrial-firm-profits-climb-55-helping-economy-maintain-momentum.html
Chinese industrial companies’
profits climbed 55 percent in the first eight months of 2010
from a year earlier, bolstering investment as the government
pares back stimulus.  Net income  increased to 2.6 trillion yuan ($390 billion),
the statistics bureau said today in an e-mail. That compared
with an 11 percent decline in the same period in 2009.  Strength in corporate spending may help the economy
maintain momentum as the government reins in lending from last
year’s record levels and the effects fade of a November 2008
stimulus package. Barclays Capital said last week that growth
may bottom at 9 percent in the fourth quarter and in the first
three months of 2011 as the nation has a “soft landing.”  “The strength of profits gives me confidence that private
firms will keep investing,” said  Huw McKay , an economist at
Westpac Banking Group in Sydney. “The additional tax revenue
coming from the profits rebound adds to the government’s fiscal
firepower if it deemed that more stimulus was needed.”  The Shanghai Composite Index of stocks rose 0.95 percent
before the mid-day lunch break today.  Today’s report gave little indication that labor costs are
a drag on earnings, after local governments increased minimum
wages and companies such as  Foxconn Technology Group  boosted pay.
The numbers indicated a 6.03 percent profit margin, similar to
the level for the first five months of the year, McKay said.  Stronger Spending  Stronger domestic spending would help insulate the economy
from any reduction in overseas demand for Chinese exports.
China’s September trade surplus is likely to be smaller than in
August, Chen Jian, a vice minister at China’s Ministry of
Commerce, said in Taipei today. China posted a third straight
monthly surplus of more than $20 billion in August.  Industrial companies’ sales gained 33.4 percent in the
first eight months to 43.1 trillion yuan, the statement showed.
The figures, released every three months, cover state and
private businesses with annual sales of more than 5 million yuan
in 39 industries, including steel, chemicals, electricity,
telecommunications and mining.  Industrial profits  plunged in early 2009 as the global
financial crisis pummeled the Chinese economy, then surged back
because of the government’s stimulus program. In the first two
months of this year, earnings rose 120 percent, partly because
of the favorable year-earlier base for comparison. For January-
through-May, the gain was 82 percent.  Not Sustainable  Such large increases weren’t sustainable, McKay said,
adding that the economy is in “the midst of a deceleration that
will persist through year’s end.”  In June, China ended an almost two-year-old crisis policy
of pegging the yuan to the dollar, signaling some confidence in
the outlook for growth. Policy makers are targeting a 22 percent
decline in new lending this year to 7.5 trillion yuan.  At the same time, officials are yet to raise interest rates
from 2008 levels as austerity measures, sovereign-debt woes and
unemployment limit the global recovery.  China’s expansion has cooled since the first quarter as the
government tries to prevent asset bubbles in property by curbing
home purchases and also closes factories to chase energy-
efficiency and pollution targets.  UBS AG. economist  Wang Tao  said in report last month that
earnings growth for heavy industry may keep slowing on input
costs, decelerating infrastructure investment and an expected
slowdown in property construction. In contrast, profit gains by
light industry “may remain strong for some time” on a recovery
in export demand, Wang said.  Wuhan Steel  Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. , the listed unit of China’s third-
biggest steelmaker, may face a “very difficult” second half of
the year after drastic changes in demand from the auto,
appliances and real-estate industries since July, the company
said last month.  China’s economic  growth  cooled last quarter to an annual
10.3 percent annual pace from 11.9 percent in the first three
months of this year. Third-quarter data will be released next
month, with faster-than-forecast gains in industrial output in
August suggesting that the nation’s slowdown has stabilized.  China is poised to overtake Japan as the world’s second-
biggest economy this year, after reporting a larger gross
domestic product in the second quarter.  -- Sophie Leung ,  Nipa Piboontanasawat . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,
 Ken McCallum .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  