-- China Request for More Russian Oil ‘Not That Simple’
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2010-09-27T09:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/china-request-for-more-russian-oil-deliveries-not-that-simple-.html
China ’s request to double planned
Russian oil deliveries through a new pipeline won’t be met
anytime soon because of the need to develop deposits and links,
OAO Transneft said.  “It is not that simple,” said Nikolai Tokarev, head of
Transneft,  Russia ’s state-run pipeline operator. “You have to
find resources for this oil and provide for technically pumping
this oil.”  State-run OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest crude producer, and
Transneft will deliver Russia’s first commercial oil by pipeline
to China under a contract for 15 million metric tons a year,
starting Jan. 1. The supplies will flow through a spur from the
East Siberian Pacific Ocean pipeline, which Russia is building
to boost oil exports to growing Asian-Pacific markets.  Russia will fill the spur to China with roughly 600,000
tons of technical oil beginning in November, Tokarev said. China
has asked for 30 million tons of oil a year, which is
technically possible, although “so far just a wish.”  The development of new resources for eastern markets has
lagged behind schedule and the licenses that Russia has offered
in eastern Siberia have raised little interest, said  Valery
Nesterov , an oil and gas analyst at Troika Dialog in Moscow.  “Licenses that companies have already received need a lot
of money to develop and oil companies have strained resources
now, especially with regards to the state’s tax regime,”
Nesterov said today by telephone.  China Development Bank agreed last year to provide a $25
billion loan to Transneft and Rosneft, which has helped finance
the construction of the Asia pipeline and the development of
Russia’s largest new oil development, Rosneft’s Vankor deposit.  Rosneft has held back from making an investment decision on
the remote Yurubcheno-Takhomskogo deposit, one of the eastern
Siberia fields that the pipeline aims to unlock, until the state
offers more visibility on the size and duration of tax breaks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 