-- Citigroup Hires 15 Bankers for Expansion in Russia, Mideast, South Africa
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2010-09-27T12:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/citigroup-hires-emerging-markets-bankers-as-rivals-struggle-.html
Citigroup Inc.  hired 15 bankers to
expand its coverage of Russia, South Africa and the Middle East
as domestic competitors “struggle” for capital, regional
equities chief  Farhang Mehregani  said.  The research, sales and trading hires come from competitors
such as UBS AG and Bank of America Merrill Lynch and include
equities sales heads in London, New York, Moscow and
Johannesburg, said Mehregani, who runs Citigroup’s equity sales,
trading and research divisions for central and eastern Europe,
the Middle East and Africa, or CEEMEA.  “Domestic investment banks in our regions are struggling
because of a lack of capital commitment,” Mehregani said in a
telephone interview from London.  Citigroup is expanding its Russian business after losing a
number of employees to competitors earlier this year. The New
York-based bank is recruiting as it vies with domestic
brokerages for business in the world’s biggest energy supplier.
The bank also brought in four analysts for its equity research
teams in the region, as well as four traders and three sales
traders.  The new hires include  Ian Colville , formerly a fund manager
at Carpathian Capital Management and head of equity sales at
Deutsche Bank AG, who joins as head of Russian equity sales.  Ben Cowley , previously at Merrill Lynch & Co., joined as head of
CEEMEA sales in London.  Conrad Scheurkogel , formerly head of
sales in Europe, the Middle East and Africa at UBS AG, joins as
head of EMEA sales in New York while  Graeme Franck , head of
South African sales at UBS AG, arrives as head of sales in South
Africa.  Evidence of Commitment  The additions come after Citigroup said on Sept. 24 it
hired  Igor Kan , Morgan Stanley’s former deputy head for Russia,
to run its equities team in Moscow.  Mehregani  said the bank, approximately in seventh place in
Russian equities trading, intends to boost its place by
benefitting from the weakness of domestic banks.  “In Russia, our market share has not been what we would
like it to be, but we intend to increase it materially and our
recent hires are evidence of our commitment,” he said.  Mehregani said Citigroup was the leader in equity trading
in Poland with a 14 percent market share. In Israel, Greece and
Nasdaq Dubai, the bank is also number one, he said.  Senior sales traders  Yonatan Gozdanker ,  Gary Lennon  and
 Vadim Varvarin  left Citigroup in July to join Renaissance
Capital, the Moscow-based investment bank partly owned by
billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. Moscow-based senior equity
traders  Yuri Aldakimov  and Andrey Moichin left for Otkritie
Financial Corp. the same month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Corcoran  at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  