-- Citigroup Adds American Express, Macy’s to ‘Recommended’ List
-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2010-09-27T12:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/citigroup-s-levkovich-adds-american-express-macy-s-to-recommended-list.html
Investors should buy more shares in
diversified financial companies and cut back on the technology-
hardware industry, Citigroup Inc. said in a report.  Citigroup removed  Cisco Systems Inc.  from its “Recommended
List” and added American Express Co., Macy’s Inc. and Illinois
Tool Works Inc.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has  risen  12 percent from
its year-to-date low on July 2 through Sept. 24 as concerns
about the stability of Europe faded and the U.S. showed signs of
improving demand for capital goods and consumer items. Citigroup
predicted the equity market will get stronger through the end of
the year and into 2011.  “Our more bullish stance on the market since late August
is being reflected in our portfolio positioning,” Tobias
Levkovich, Citigroup’s chief U.S. equity strategist, said in the
Sept. 24 report. “We continue to hear a great deal of
skepticism about our view, which we consider good news,” he
wrote. “The only thing consistent over the last three months
has been the bearish attitude.”  Levkovich predicted the S&P 500 will rise to 1,175 by the
end of the year, which would be a 2.3 percent advance from the
 close  of 1,148.67 on Sept. 24. The average forecast of 11
strategists surveyed by Bloomberg is for a year-end 2010 level
of 1,193 on the benchmark index for U.S. stocks.  Diversified financial companies, which include asset
managers and investment banks, were raised to “overweight,”
and retailing was boosted to “market weight,” Levkovich said,
citing Citigroup’s prediction that stock markets will rise
through the rest of 2010, which could benefit both industry
groups.  The technology hardware and equipment and consumer durables
and apparel groups were lowered to “underweight.” Share
valuations are high in those industries relative to other
groups, Citigroup said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 