-- Citigroup, Massey, David Jones, Kagan, Enron, Goldman in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2010-09-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/citigroup-massey-david-jones-kagan-enron-in-court-news.html
Norges Bank, Norway’s central bank,
sued Citigroup Inc. along with Chief Executive Officer Vikram
Pandit and Chairman Richard Parsons over $835 million in losses
in Citigroup stock and bonds.  Citigroup misrepresented its financial condition and failed
to disclose material information, leading the Norway bank to buy
the New York-based bank’s stock and bonds at inflated prices
during the period between January 2007 and January 2009, Norges
Bank said in the Sept. 17 lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court
in Manhattan.  “Citi’s near-demise had its genesis in the company’s
increasing willingness to take on risk for the sake of profit,
without regard for -- and without disclosing -- the magnitude of
the downside exposure it faced if those risks materialized,”
the bank said in the complaint.  The lawsuit names 20 current and former directors and
executives including former CEO Charles “Chuck” Prince.  Norges Bank, through its investment arm, is responsible for
investing the assets of the Norwegian Government Pension Fund
Global, the world’s second-biggest sovereign wealth fund. The
fund invests outside Norway to avoid stoking domestic inflation.  “We believe the suit has no merit and will defend
ourselves vigorously,” Citigroup spokeswoman Danielle Romero-
Apsilos said in a statement.  “Norges Bank’s complaint tracks, in large part, the
complaint filed in the securities class action lawsuit currently
pending against Citigroup, but Norges Bank believes it will be
better served by pursuing its own direct action,” Bunny
Nooryani, a spokeswoman for the central bank in Oslo, said in a
telephone interview. The central bank is also a plaintiff in the
class-action lawsuit, she said.  The case is Norges Bank v. Citigroup, 10-cv-07202, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Massey Managers Ask Judge to Block Subpoenas Probing Mine Blast  Lawyers for six  Massey Energy Co.  managers asked a West
Virginia judge to quash subpoenas from the state’s mine safety
director requiring them to answer questions about the April
explosion that killed 29 people.  The state agency is being used by the federal  Mine Safety
and Health Administration  to force these managers to testify in
an abuse of process, the lawyers said in a Sept. 21 filing in
state court in West Virginia. The state can compel testimony
while the federal agency can’t under limits imposed by Congress,
the lawyers said.  The April 5 explosion at Massey’s Performance Coal
operation in Montcoal, West Virginia, the worst U.S. mine
disaster in 40 years, set off federal and state investigations
into its cause. The West Virginia agency this month issued the
subpoenas, including one to Elizabeth Chamberlin, Massey’s vice
president of safety and health, after the federal probe stalled,
the managers’ lawyers said.  “In August 2010, MSHA grew restless with the pace and
consistency of appearances by witnesses it invited for voluntary
interviews,” they said in the filing. As a result the federal
agency “importuned” the state “to issue subpoenas compelling
the attendance and testimony of those persons.”  The federal mine safety agency has made “inflammatory
public statements” about Massey’s Performance Coal operation
“from the outset of its investigation,” implying that the
accident occurred because of safety violations, the lawyers
said. “MSHA has a substantial and immediate interest in making
such allegations in order to deflect its own potential
responsibility for the tragedy.”  Leslie Fitzwater, spokeswoman for the West Virginia Office
of Miners’ Health, Safety & Training didn’t immediately return a
call for comment. Amy Louviere, at MSHA, said, “We don’t
comment on ongoing cases. This is a West Virginia matter. We
aren’t even a party to this matter.”  The case is In the Matter of Administrative Subpoenas
issued by the West Virginia Office of Miners’ Health, Safety &
Training, 10-P-22-H, Circuit Court, Raleigh County, West
Virginia.  David Jones Ex-CEO Denies Sexual Harassment Charges  David Jones Ltd. ’s former Chief Executive Officer Mark
McInnes denied that he sexually harassed publicist Kristy
Fraser-Kirk and said he tried to kiss her at a party after she
made comments of a sexual nature.  McInnes and the company filed their statements of defense
Sept. 24 in Sydney Federal Court in response to allegations of
sexual harassment from Fraser-Kirk, who is seeking A$37 million
($35 million) in punitive damages.  Fraser-Kirk, 27, sued last month claiming McInnes, 45, made
unwelcome sexual advances at two company functions, including
putting his hand under her clothing and trying to kiss her.
McInnes also repeatedly invited Fraser-Kirk to Bondi, where he
owns an apartment, with the implication that it would be for
sexual intercourse, Fraser-Kirk said in her complaint.  Fraser-Kirk “made comments of a sexual nature” at a June
7 function, according to court papers filed on McInnes’s behalf,
“in response to which he attempted to kiss her.”  David Jones also denied any wrongdoing in its statement of
defense. After the first function on May 23, Fraser-Kirk told
her supervisors “in a lighthearted and jovial tone and without
complaining” that McInnes had asked her out for a drink, the
company said. She didn’t complain until June 9, it added.  McInnes said he invited Fraser-Kirk for a drink to North
Bondi Italian, a restaurant in the beach-front suburb, and
denied there was any implication of sexual intercourse.  Anthony McClellan, a spokesman for Fraser-Kirk, said she
wouldn’t comment on the defense documents filed Sept. 24.  McInnes resigned in June, following Fraser-Kirk’s
complaints.  The case is between Kristy Anne Fraser-Kirk and David Jones
Ltd. 964-2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Citigroup $75 Million SEC Settlement Approved  Citigroup Inc. ’s $75 million settlement with U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission won approval from a federal
judge, resolving claims the bank failed to disclose $40 billion
in subprime-related holdings.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Huvelle in Washington had said
last month she was dissatisfied with the proposal and would hold
off approving it until she had more information. Both the bank
and the SEC filed additional papers with the court urging
acceptance of the accord.  Huvelle said at a hearing Sept. 24 that she would sign the
settlement after the parties agreed to further mandatory
disclosure to ensure future oversight. Attorneys are required to
submit the new language within two weeks for her signature.  The company made misstatements on earnings calls and in
financial filings about assets tied to subprime loans as the
housing crisis unfolded in 2007, the SEC said in its July 29
complaint. Some disclosures omitted more than $40 billion in
investments, regulators said.  The penalty “takes into account the seriousness of the
misconduct,” the SEC wrote in a Sept. 8 filing. “It is
sufficiently substantial to send a clear message that misleading
statements by a corporation on issues of importance to investors
cannot go unaddressed.”  Responding to Huvelle’s request, the SEC identified
Citigroup officials -- including former Chief Executive Officer
Charles O. “Chuck” Prince and former Chairman Robert Rubin --
who were aware that losses were mounting in October 2007 on the
highest-rated segments of mortgage-based assets, which the
agency claims hadn’t been fully disclosed. The SEC didn’t accuse
those officials of wrongdoing.  The fact that so many executives were aware of the
disclosure and valuation process and “nonetheless did not note
the central issue identified by the commission in its complaint,
only underscores the weakness of any possible case against
additional parties,” Citigroup wrote in a Sept. 13 filing.  Citigroup was under “no obligation to say anything about
its ‘subprime exposure’” in the second and third quarters of
2007, the bank wrote. It voluntarily decided shareholders would
benefit from “a more concrete understanding” and made some
statements, it said.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Citigroup
Inc., 10-cv-01277, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Hacker Gets 10 Years for $1.4 Million Internet Theft  Edwin Pena, a convicted computer hacker, was sentenced to
10 years in prison for stealing Internet telephone service
valued at $1.4 million and reselling it to unwitting companies
such as  IDT Corp.   Pena, 27, was sentenced Sept. 24 in federal court in
Newark, New Jersey, where he pleaded guilty in February 2009,
almost three years after fleeing the U.S. while on bail. The
Miami resident went to his native Venezuela and Colombia before
living in Mexico, where a girlfriend turned him in to
authorities.  U.S. District Judge Susan Wigenton imposed nearly the
maximum term under advisory guidelines, rejecting a request for
leniency from Pena and his lawyer. While committing the first
fraud of its type in the U.S., Pena bought a new house and
luxury cars and gambled in Atlantic City and Las Vegas,
prosecutors said.  “I would like to apologize to the people of the United
States, to my family, and especially to my daughter,” Pena said
Sept. 24. “I know I’m a changed person now. I’ve grown up. I
know I’ll be good from now on.”  The judge rejected those arguments, saying, “I don’t find
he has any credibility when he says he’s a changed person.”  The case is U.S. v. Pena, 09-cr-103, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court News  Kagan Presence to Be Felt by Her Absence in First Court Term  Elena Kagan may make her mark in her first  U.S. Supreme
Court  term less by her presence than by her absence, Bloomberg
News’ Greg Stohr reports.  Kagan has disqualified herself in 20 of the 38 cases on the
court’s calendar because she took part in the litigation as U.S.
solicitor general. The 20 include some top business cases: a
fight over sanctions on employers for hiring illegal aliens, a
clash between manufacturers and discount stores over the
multibillion-dollar “gray market” in imports and disputes over
consumer suits against automakers and drug companies.  In each case, Kagan’s absence creates the prospect of an
evenly divided court, an outcome that would leave the lower
court ruling intact without setting a nationwide precedent,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 27 issue. The term
starts Oct. 4.  “It’s potentially a big deal” in those cases, said Roy
Englert, a Washington appellate lawyer who will argue in the
import case on behalf of  Costco Wholesale Corp. , the largest
U.S. warehouse club. “You could have a 4-4 affirmance that will
be satisfying to no one.”  Kagan’s recusals will be important for consumer advocates
because her predecessor, retired Justice  John Paul Stevens ,
tended to welcome those types of claims, rejecting arguments
that they were preempted by federal law.  “The plaintiff’s tort bar must be entering the term with
some trepidation,” Maureen Mahoney, a Washington appellate
lawyer who represents Mazda, said at a briefing this week
sponsored by the Chamber of Commerce. “They’ve really lost
their champion.”  For more, click here.  On the Docket  Enron’s Skilling Gets Nov. 1 Hearing on Retrial Bid  Former  Enron Corp.  Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey
Skilling’s bid for a new trial is scheduled for a Nov. 1 hearing
before a federal appeals court in Houston, his lawyer said.  In June, the U.S. Supreme Court questioned whether Skilling
was properly convicted on 19 counts for leading a conspiracy
that caused the collapse of the world’s largest energy trader.
The high court ordered a review of his case by the U.S. Court of
Appeals in New Orleans.  The New Orleans court agreed to hear oral arguments on
Skilling’s request at a session in Houston, Daniel Petrocelli,
his lead attorney, said Sept. 23.  “We are very pleased to have an opportunity to argue
Jeff’s case and hopeful that his long nightmare is coming to an
end,” Petrocelli said in a telephone interview.  All of Skilling’s verdicts were tainted by an invalid legal
theory and should be retried without prosecutors’ reliance on
so-called honest services theft, Petrocelli said in court
papers. Prosecutors are urging the appeals court to reject
Skilling’s request for a new trial and uphold his convictions.
In court filings they insist jurors at Skilling’s 2006 trial
didn’t rely on the invalid theory in finding Skilling and
Enron’s Chairman Kenneth Lay guilty. Lay’s verdicts were erased
because he died before he had the chance to appeal. Laura
Sweeney, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined to comment
Sept. 23.  Skilling, 56, is serving a 24-year sentence in federal
prison in Englewood, Colorado. He was denied bail while his case
is under review.  More than 5,000 jobs and $1 billion in employee retirement
funds were wiped out when Enron collapsed into bankruptcy in
December 2001, after revelations of widespread accounting fraud.
Investors sued to recover more than $60 billion in market
losses. The case is U.S. v. Skilling, 06-20885, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New Orleans).  Court Filings  Goldman Suit Alleging Gender Discrimination Most Popular  A lawsuit against  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  brought by three
former female employees who claim they faced discrimination in
pay and fewer opportunities for promotion than men at the firm,
was the most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system
last week.  “The violations of its female employees’ rights are
systemic, are based upon companywide policies and practices, and
are the result of unchecked gender bias that pervades Goldman
Sachs’s corporate culture,” the women said Sept. 15 in a
complaint in  federal court  in Manhattan.  The plaintiffs, H. Cristina Chen-Oster, 39, a former vice
president; Lisa Parisi, 48, a former managing director; and
Shanna Orlich, 30, a former associate, seek class-action status
to represent all female Goldman Sachs employees with those job
titles.  “We believe this suit is without merit,” said Lucas van
Praag, a Goldman spokesman. “People are critical to our
business, and we make extraordinary efforts to recruit, develop
and retain outstanding women professionals.”  The case is Chen-Oster v. Goldman, Sachs & Co., 10-cv-6950,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 