-- Commerzbank Forecasts Investment-Banking Growth After Cutting Jobs, Risk
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-09-27T13:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/commerzbank-forecasts-investment-banking-growth-after-cutting-jobs-risk.html
Commerzbank AG , which acquired
unprofitable Dresdner Bank AG in January 2009, said earnings at
its investment bank will rise after it cut jobs and risk as part
of the integration process.  “The integration will no longer get in the way of
business, which is now fully operational,”  Michael Seelhof ,
chief operating officer at the corporate and markets unit, said
at a press briefing in Frankfurt today. “We expect earnings to
continue to grow,” he said, adding that about 90 percent of the
integration targets have been reached.  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, has cut the
number of investment bank staff by about 44 percent to 1,800 and
reduced risk-weighted assets by 29 percent to 53 billion euros
($71 billion). The investment-banking unit  posted  an operating
profit of 454 million euros in the first half of the year.
Seelhof reiterated the unit’s 2012 operating profit target of
about 800 million euros.  The Frankfurt-based lender plans to lower the number of
employees at the investment bank to 1,650 by 2012. Commerzbank
has completed job cuts at locations abroad, such as London and
New York, and normal fluctuations in personnel will help achieve
the remaining reductions, the bank said.  Commerzbank was able to keep “all the employees that it
wanted to hold,” and “being an attractive employer isn’t all
about pay,” Seelhof said. He declined to comment on a newspaper
report that as many as 50 Commerzbank bankers earn more than
Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing .  Government Debt  The lender was forced to tap Germany for 18.2 billion euros
after buying Dresdner Bank amid the global financial crisis. It
then capped board members’ annual salaries at 500,000 euros.  Commerzbank has expanded its businesses for equity capital
markets and debt capital markets and reduced structured finance
and asset-backed securities activities after the financial
crisis, said  Roman Schmidt , head of corporate finance.  The lender plans to grow in areas such as government debt
issuance, he said. Commerzbank is also benefitting as an
increasing number of small and medium-sized corporate clients
tap debt markets to raise longer-term financing, Schmidt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  