-- Continental Returns to Junk Bond Market in Its `Last' Issue for This Year
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   H y d e   a n d   S o n j a   C h e u n g
-- 2010-09-27T15:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/continental-returns-to-junk-bond-market-in-its-last-issue-for-this-year.html
Continental AG , Europe’s second-
largest auto parts supplier, will raise 1.25 billion euros ($1.7
billion) from what it says will be its last junk bond sale this
year.  The issue of six- and eight-year notes is the Hannover,
Germany-based company’s second sale in a month and will tap
“strong demand” for the high-yield debt, Chief Financial
Officer  Wolfgang Schaefer  said in a statement today. Continental
sold 1 billion euros of notes Sept. 2, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There has been a wave of high-yield issuance as companies
take advantage of investor demand for the bonds in a low-yield
environment,” said  Felix Freund , a Frankfurt-based portfolio
manager at Union Investment GmbH, which oversees 160 billion
euros of assets. “There will likely be good demand for
Continental’s latest bond, as the automotive industry is in good
shape,” said Freund, who is considering buying the debt.  Sales of high-yield bonds in Europe almost tripled this
year to $50 billion from 2009, Bloomberg data show. Investor
demand has driven the absolute yield on junk-rated debt down 2.5
percentage points this year to 7.9 percent, the lowest in almost
three years, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  The yield on Continental’s 625 million euros of 2016 bonds
will be set at 6.75 percent, according to two bankers involved
in the sale. The notes due 2018 will be priced at 7.25 percent,
said the bankers, who declined to be identified because the
details of the sale are private.  Maturity Extension  High-yield, or junk, bonds are graded below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. Continental is
rated B1 by Moody’s, four-steps below investment grade, and one
rank lower at B by S&P.  Continental has been seeking to extend maturities on more
than 8 billion euros of bank loans due in 2012 linked to its
acquisition of Siemens AG’s VDO unit three years ago. Europe’s
No. 2 tire maker has issued 1.75 billion euros of bonds this
year, and refinanced debt with the proceeds of a 1.1 billion-
euro stock sale in January.  The new note sale “will help us to quickly achieve our
goal of significantly improving the maturity profile,”
Continental’s Schaefer said.  Citigroup AG, Commerzbank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., ING
Groep NV, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg, Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and UniCredit SpA are managing the sale of the notes,
which are callable after three years. The bonds are being issued
through Conti-Gummi Finance BV.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Hyde  in London 
 chyde3@bloomberg.net ;
 Sonja Cheung  in London at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  