-- Crude Oil Declines as Dollar Rises, Forecasts of U.S. Stockpile Increase
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-09-28T07:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/crude-oil-declines-as-dollar-rises-forecasts-of-u-s-stockpile-increase.html
Oil fell in New York, snapping a
four-day rally, after analysts forecast an increase in U.S.
gasoline supplies, signaling demand recovery in the world’s
largest crude user may falter.  Futures slipped as U.S. equities dropped and the euro
weakened from a five-month high against the dollar after renewed
signs of debt problems at European banks and countries such as
Ireland and Portugal. An U.S. Energy Department report tomorrow
may show  gasoline stockpiles  climbed to a six-month high.  “We really haven’t made any headway into stockpiles,”
said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at National
Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne. “Activity hasn’t improved.
The crude market followed equity markets overnight.”  The November contract lost as much as 78 cents, or 1
percent, to $75.74 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange, and was at $75.84 at 3:04 p.m.
Singapore time. Yesterday it added 3 cents to settle at $76.52.
Prices are down 4.5 percent this year.  Brent crude for November delivery declined as much as 74
cents, or 0.9 percent, to $77.83 on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Yesterday it fell 30 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
settle at $78.57.  November Brent’s premium to the corresponding West Texas
future in New York narrowed to $2.06 a barrel today, down from
$3.45 a week earlier.  Crude Stockpiles  Gasoline inventories probably rose 750,000 barrels last
week from 226.1 million, according to the median estimate from
nine analysts before the Energy Department report. The gain
would leave supplies at the highest level since March 12.  Crude stockpiles  probably declined  600,000 barrels last
week from 358.3 million, based on the Bloomberg News survey.
Inventories of distillate fuel, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, climbed 500,000 barrels, the survey showed.  Refineries probably operated at 87.3 percent of capacity,
down 0.5 percentage point from the previous week, according to
the Bloomberg survey. Operating rates unexpectedly increased 0.2
percentage point in the week ended Sept. 17.  Oil may decline based on technical factors used by traders
to judge price movements. Crude closed only 3 cents higher from
its open, creating what is known as a doji formation, which uses
candle charts to track levels and indicate a reversal in price
direction.  Doji Signal  “Yesterday’s tight open-close could qualify as a doji
signal, signifying an end of the uptrend seen last week,”
 Stephen Schork , president of consultants The Schork Group Inc.
in Villanova, said in a report today.  Crude fell yesterday after the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
lost 0.6 percent, to 1,142.16 in New York.  The  S&P/Case Shiller  20-city home price index probably
declined 0.1 percent in July, the first slide in four months,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before a report today. In
the 12 months ended July, home values probably rose 3.1 percent,
down from a 4.2 percent gain in the year ended June.  “It does seem that the U.S. housing market is starting to
bottom,” National Australia Bank’s Westmore said. “People will
be looking closely at house prices to work out whether consumer
spending is going to pick up, and as a result, all of those end
uses for oil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jane Lee in Kuala Lumpur at 
 jalee@bloomberg.net  