-- Cuomo Will Face Paladino Alone as Lazio Quits New York's Governor Race
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-09-27T20:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/cuomo-to-face-paladino-alone-as-rick-lazio-quits-new-york-governor-s-race.html
Rick Lazio , the  Conservative
Party ’s candidate for New York governor, dropped out of the
race, leaving Republican  Carl Paladino  as Democrat  Andrew Cuomo ’s main opponent.  Lazio, who lost the Republican primary to Paladino, said at
a Manhattan news conference today that staying on the ticket
made a Cuomo win more likely. The Conservative Party will
probably vote to nominate Paladino on Sept. 29, Chairman Michael
Long said.  “If there’s anything that all conservatives are in
agreement on, it’s that Andrew Cuomo should not be the next
governor,” Long said in an interview.  Long said he intends to campaign for Paladino, and the
party will nominate Lazio for a judgeship.  Lazio, 52, a former four-term congressman from Long Island,
remained the Conservative Party’s candidate after losing in the
Republican primary to Paladino.  “While my heart beckons me forward, my head tells me that
my continued presence on the Conservative line would simply lead
to the election of Andrew Cuomo and the continuation of an
entrenched political machine,” Lazio said.  He didn’t endorse Paladino, a Tea Party favorite.  “I strongly believe that Andrew Cuomo cannot bring about
change, but I remain unconvinced that Carl Paladino will bring
the improvements that New Yorkers need, deserve and want,”
Lazio said.  Consolidating Opposition  Bruce Gyory , a political adviser at Corning Place
Consulting in Albany, said in an interview that Lazio’s
withdrawal is good news for Paladino. “It will help Paladino
consolidate” his supporters under one ballot line, he said.  Voters will choose between Paladino, 64, a Buffalo real
estate developer, and Cuomo, 52, on Nov. 2.  Four polls last week showed Cuomo as the frontrunner. Three
registered leads of at least 16 percentage points, including a
19 percentage point lead among likely voters polled by Marist
College.  Lazio  had the backing of 9 percent, Marist said.  A Sept. 22 Quinnipiac University poll that excluded Lazio
showed Cuomo ahead of Paladino by 6 points. That poll had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.  Bats and Coalitions  Paladino won an upset Sept. 14 in the primary, beating
Lazio, the candidate selected by Republican Party leaders. He
has promised to clean up Albany with “a baseball bat” and to
cut taxes 10 percent and spending 20 percent in his first year
as governor.  Cuomo has said he is seeking a coalition with lawmakers and
unions to support his plan to freeze taxes and government wages,
and to limit growth of state spending to the rate of inflation.  The previous Republican governor, George Pataki, won office
in 1994 thanks to backing by the Conservative Party, whose
328,605 votes, when added to 2.16 million Republican votes,
allowed him to beat Mario Cuomo, father of this year’s
Democratic nominee Andrew Cuomo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Esme E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  