-- Cyprus Maintains Freeze on Billionaire Kerimov's Stock in Polyus, Uralkali
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-09-27T15:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/cyprus-extends-freeze-on-russian-billionaire-suleiman-kerimov-s-assets.html
A Cyprus court maintained a freeze
on Russian billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov ’s assets, including
stakes in mining company  OAO Polyus Gold  and fertilizer maker
 OAO Uralkali .  The case, reviewed today, will be heard again on Nov. 17,
Nicosia District Court President Michalis Christodoulou said at
the court. A Sept. 17 order already banned Cyprus-registered
entities controlled by Kerimov from any transactions using
shares in Uralkali and Polyus.  The move follows a complaint against Kerimov by Ashot
Egiazaryan, a member of Russia’s lower house of parliament, who
claims Kerimov forced him to relinquish 25.5 percent of the
 Moskva hotel  near Moscow’s Red Square. Egiazaryan filed a
request for $2 billion in damages at the London Court of
International Arbitration on Sept. 13, according to court
documents in Cyprus.  A lawyer for Kerimov,  Michael Stepek  at Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP in Geneva, would only say he was aware of the
Cypriot injunction.  Soteris Flourentzos and George Triantafyllides, lawyers who
represent five of Kerimov’s companies affected by the
injunction, had appealed against the Sept. 17 order.  Those five companies have been officially notified of the
court’s latest ruling, Andreas Chaviaras, Egiazaryan’s lawyer,
said today. “We have indications that also the remaining
companies have been notified,” he said.  Polyus Gold  dropped 0.4 percent to 1,376.08 rubles at the
6:45 p.m. close of trade on Moscow’s Micex exchange.  Uralkali 
rose 0.4 percent to 137.75 rubles.  Kerimov, ranked by  Finans magazine  as Russia’s fourth-
richest man with a fortune of $14.5 billion, owns 37 percent of
Polyus, according to a July 2009 company filing, and 25 percent
of Uralkali. The stakes, of which part are pledged for bank
loans, are worth $3.4 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively,
Bloomberg calculations show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stelios Orphanides  in Athens at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 