-- Dallas Transit Authority's Borrowing Cost May Fall Even After Rating Cut
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-09-27T14:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/dallas-transit-authority-s-borrowing-cost-may-fall-even-after-rating-cut.html
Dallas Area Rapid Transit, which
hauls 220,000 passengers a day across 700 square miles, is
selling $729 million of taxable Build America Bonds to expand
its bus and rail system in the week’s largest municipal bond
offering.  The transit authority, which added to its planned Build
America sale by including debt originally scheduled to be sold
in 2012, saw its rating cut one level to AA+ by Standard &
Poor’s on Sept. 17 in part because of the additional burden. The
agency also is selling $100 million of tax-exempt bonds to
refinance existing debt at lower rates.  The agency doesn’t expect to pay more after the rating cut,
said  David Leininger , chief financial officer, in a phone
interview. That’s because benchmark U.S. Treasury bond yields,
which are a basis for pricing munis, have fallen and the
agency’s Aa2 rating from Moody’s is higher than when it sold
debt last year because Moody’s recalibrated all municipal
ratings, he said.  “When you have a split rating, you usually price off the
lower of the two,” said Leininger. “Our spread should be lower
than it was two years ago.”  States and municipalities are poised to issue about $10
billion in debt this week, up from about $9.3 billion last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the tax-exempt
market last week, yields fell 6 basis points to 2.61 percent on
Sept. 24, 3 basis points above the all-time low set Aug. 25,
according to  Municipal Market Advisors  data. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  ‘Solid Fundamentally’  The difference in yield between 30-year Treasuries and
Dallas Area Rapid Transit Build Americas sold in June 2009 has
fallen to about 1.23 percentage points in secondary market
trading from 1.5 percentage points when the bonds were issued.
Average Build America yields are about half a percentage point
lower than they were in August 2009, according to a Wells Fargo
index.  “They did accelerate debt issuance a bit,” said  Howard Cure , director of municipal research at Evercore Wealth
Management in New York, who oversees about $2 billion. “Even
with the downgrade it is still solid fundamentally.”  The system is supported by a one-cent sales tax in addition
to fares, according to S&P’s report. The agency raised its price
for a ride last year amid the worst recession since the 1930s
and cut $6 billion from its capital plan, Leininger said. It
added money from fares to pledged revenue on Sept. 14.  All, or Some, Aboard  Fewer people have ridden the light-rail system in the past
three fiscal years, Moody’s said in its rating report. Ridership
declined by 4 percent in 2007, 8.9 percent in 2008 and 3.8
percent in 2009, according to federal data the company cited.
Moody’s said service to Dallas Love Field airport starting this
year and Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport in 2013 would
get more people on board.  The transit agency moved forward $365 million of bonds it
planned to sell in 2012 to take advantage of interest rates that
have been near historic lows, and to make sure it can tap Build
America’s 35 percent interest subsidy, which is to expire at
year’s end.  Build America Bonds are the fastest growing part of the
U.S. municipal bond market, with $139 billion issued. Congress
and President  Barack Obama  launched the Build America program in
2009 to stimulate the economy by providing a federal subsidy for
interest on the debt. Legislation introduced by Senate Finance
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  would extend the program one year
with the subsidy reduced to 32 percent.  Stretching Dollars  S&P said in its rating report that by issuing the
additional debt, the Dallas agency would stretch the shrinking
tax base and fare revenue available to repay it. Waiting until
2012, when the Build America program may not exist, the subsidy
is reduced and overall interest rates are higher would be more
expensive, Leininger said.  “We actually save a ton of money,” said Leininger. “I’d
be challenged by my board if we were not trying to save the
money we’re trying to save.”  Even after the rating cut, the agency, which serves 13
cities with 2.4 million people, is at S&P’s second-highest level
and Moody’s third-highest.  “It looks like a good time for this deal,” said  Anthony Greco , a trader at Boston-based Breckenridge Capital Advisors,
which manages about $13.5 billion of municipal bonds and owns
some of Dallas Area transit’s bonds. “Demand for BABs will
continue through the end of the year because we’ll be going from
a 35 percent subsidy to a 32 percent subsidy or nothing at
all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Darrell Preston  in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 