-- David Miliband Yet to Decide If He'll Serve Under Ed for Labour
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-09-27T12:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/david-miliband-is-yet-to-decide-if-he-ll-serve-under-brother-ed-for-labour.html
David Miliband , who lost to his
younger brother  Ed  in the battle to head the U.K.’s  Labour
Party , said he is yet to decide whether to join the new leader’s
team of opposition spokesmen, even as he called for party unity.  “I came here on Saturday planning a slightly different
week. Now I’m thinking about what I should do instead,” David
told reporters today in Manchester, northwest England, where the
party is holding its annual conference. “Anyone who tells you
anything about what they know of what I’ve decided is not
telling you the truth because they don’t know.”  Ed beat David to the top job by 50.65 percent to 49.35
percent in the final round of  voting  as second-preference votes
were counted, after trailing in three previous rounds. Ed owed
his victory to votes from labor-union members, 42 percent of
whom backed him in the first round. David got most votes from
lawmakers and party members throughout.  A decision by David not to serve under his brother would be
a blow to Labour as the party seeks to end the factionalism that
has dogged it since the late 1990s, with supporters of  Tony Blair  at odds with those of his chancellor and successor as
prime minister,  Gordon Brown . David was a protege of Blair,
while Ed worked for Brown.  ‘Incredibly Proud’  “We have a great new leader and we have to get behind
him,” David said in a speech at the conference today. “I’m
really, really, really proud of my campaign, I’m so proud of my
party but above all I’m incredibly proud of my brother.”  He was given a standing ovation by delegates.  “It is crucial for the party that David is there behind
his brother,”  Mark Wickham-Jones , professor of politics at
Bristol University, said in an interview. “Not only is he a
huge asset, but in the interests of unity of the party they have
to present a common front against the Conservatives. Besides,
this generation of Labour is not marked by its talent.”  Lawmakers who want to serve in Miliband’s team of
ministers-in-waiting need to nominate themselves for election by
Labour parliamentarians by Sept. 29, with the results announced
Oct. 7. Under party rules, at least six of the 19-strong team
must be women. At least 46 lawmakers have already declared they
will stand, according to the discussion forum  Labour List .  Former Defense Secretary  Bob Ainsworth , who backed David to
become leader, said today he hoped he would stay on.  ‘Wouldn’t Blame Him’  “He’s made a fantastic contribution and will continue to
do so,” Ainsworth said in an interview. “But I wouldn’t blame
him if he didn’t.” David said he would not make an announcement
on his intentions until after his brother’s keynote speech
tomorrow.  David “has a huge amount to offer our politics but we’ll
see what he decides,” Ed told reporters as he arrived at the
conference today. “Who gets what is not a decision for this
week, it’s a decision for later, and he will make his own
decisions.”  The Financial Times reported today that Ed had offered
David the role of finance spokesman opposing Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , without saying where it got the
information.  In his speech to the Labour conference, David joked about
an activist who, mistaking him for his brother, had
congratulated him on his victory. “I can do without that,” he
said. Speaking of his defeat, he told activists, “Don’t worry,
I’ll be fine.”  Labour lawmaker  Stephen Pound  paid tribute to David’s
talent.  “It’s only been 36 hours,” Pound said in an interview in
Manchester when asked whether David should stay on and serve.
“He’s got an enormous amount of thinking to do. We all know
he’s got a lot to give, and we all know he’s capable of
thinking.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Manchester, England, at
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 