-- Delhi in `Race Against Time' as Athletes, Snakes Move Into Games Village
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2010-09-27T10:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/delhi-in-race-against-time-as-athletes-snakes-move-into-games-village.html
Delhi’s Chief Minister said she was
unable to say when work on the Commonwealth Games village will
be completed, as collapsing beds and invading snakes heaped
further embarrassment on the event’s organizers.  Sheila Dikshit  said that some lifts were not working and
water still had to be removed from basements. “I will not give
you any timeline,” she said six days before the competition
between teams from 71 countries and territories is due to begin.
Yesterday, Dikshit said the cleanup would end by  midweek , the
BBC reported.  Extra workers are finishing apartments, cleaning dirty
toilets and scrubbing staircases. While “considerable work has
been done” there remains a lot to do,  Mike Fennell , chief of
the Commonwealth Games Federation, said on Sept. 25.  “We are rushing against time, no doubt about it,” Dikshit
said today.  The buildup to the Games, aimed to showcase India’s
economic might, has been marred by the collapse of a footbridge
next to the main stadium, an outbreak of dengue fever, monsoon
floods and security concerns after the Sept. 19 shooting of two
Taiwanese nationals near a mosque.  Indian boxer Akhil Kumar told journalists the bed in his
village room collapsed Sept. 25 as he sat on it for the first
time, Press Trust of India reported.  The  Times of India  newspaper today published a front-page
photograph of a cobra snake it said was rescued from the event’s
tennis stadium. South Africa’s high commissioner to India said
another snake was found yesterday in a room allocated to one of
the country’s athletes.  ‘Population Hazard’  About 550 competitors from countries including South Africa,
Australia and England are due to arrive in India today. Canada,
Scotland and New Zealand had delayed their athletes’ departure
to give organizers time to fix plumbing, wiring and furnishings.  Organizers overshot their budget ninefold, spending at
least $4.6 billion upgrading stadiums, refurbishing roads and
building power and water utilities. The government spent $2.7
billion more on a new airport terminal.  Newspaper reports that the chief executive officer of the
 Games Federation , Mike Hooper, had described Delhi’s 14 million
people as a “population hazard” were swiftly denounced by
Fennell. Hooper, the Times of India said, made the comment after
a request for a 24-hour dedicated traffic lane for Games
athletes and officials was turned down by local authorities.  Hooper had not made any disparaging comments about Indians,
Fennell said in a statement. “There have been a number of
incorrect media reports and allegations about” Hooper, Fennell,
said in a statement. “Neither he, nor the CGF, has ever
demanded a 24-hour dedicated Games lane.”  “It is really a very unkind and undiplomatic remark that
has been made,” Dikshit said today.  Special corridors between Games venues are being kept free
of traffic during daytime. The government will close Delhi’s
airspace from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. local time on the opening and
closing days of the Games, which run from Oct. 3-14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bibhudatta Pradhan  in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  