-- Deutsche Telekom's Foray into Ad Space Confounds Market
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2010-09-27T22:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/deutsche-telekom-advertising-fun-confounds-investors-competitors-alike.html
At Dusseldorf airport in Germany,
digital billboards managed by  Deutsche Telekom AG  flash
advertisements for Deutsche Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Post AG, a
sign of the phone company’s foray into the ad-space market.  Confounding investors and rival sellers of ad space,
Germany’s biggest telecommunications company has entered the
country’s $1.03 billion outdoor  advertising market . Deutsche
Telekom, which is based in Bonn and manages 100,000 public
telephone booths across the country, says it’s just optimising
the value of its real estate.  “Nobody understands why Deutsche Telekom is going into
this business,” said  Jean-Francois Decaux , co-chief executive
officer of Neuilly-sur-Seine, France-based JCDecaux SA, the
world’s second-largest outdoor ad company, which competes in the
German market.  Deutsche Telekom has invested a “good double-digit million
euros” in the business, is serious about the market and aims to
become one of the top three outdoor advertisers in Germany in
the next five years, Reinhard Hanses, the unit’s executive vice
president, said in an interview. Investors and analysts say they
see no reason for the company to be in such disparate
businesses.  “I don’t see a connection between telecommunications and
billboard advertising,” said  Markus Barth , a fund manager at
Hamburg-based Aramea Asset Management, with about 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) under management, including Deutsche
Telekom shares. “I don’t get it.”  ‘IKEA Selling Phones’  Deutsche Telekom has money to play with and some of its
people “want to have some fun,” said Winfried Karst, head of
outdoor media buyer  Kinetic Germany Worldwide .  Competitors  Stroer Out-of-Home Media AG , Germany’s largest
outdoor advertising company, and  JCDecaux have  50 percent and 20
percent of the market respectively, according to  Wolfgang Fickus , an analyst at WestLB Equity Markets in Duesseldorf who
covers Stroer. The rest are smaller.  Deutsche Telekom’s Hanses said he can see why people are
skeptical. “It’s as if IKEA decided to start selling phones,”
he said. Still, operating outdoor ads and digital signs isn’t
different from managing the company’s public booths, he said.  “You have real estate nationwide that needs electricity,
that needs to be serviced,” he said.  It costs the company to maintain phone booths at airports
and other sites. By managing ad signs nearby it can optimize
operations by generating new revenue, said Aramea’s Barth.  “By law, Deutsche Telekom has to build public telephone
infrastructure and now they could share the costs of that with
another business,” he said.  Digital Advertising  Deutsche Telekom has so far won rights to advertise in
public places in three German cities. Hanses said it will be
difficult for Deutsche Telekom to win more city licenses. Stroer
and  JCDecaux  are “not going to give up their city advertising
licenses easily,” he said.  He is more optimistic about the digital advertising market,
which consists of screens running video ads indoors.  Digital advertising will make up most of Deutsche Telekom’s
sales in out-of-home media, he said, adding that the market is
now about 3 to 4 percent of the out-of-home market in Germany.  “In about five years, we expect digital signage to make up
20 percent to 30 percent of total out-of-home advertising and we
want to have a 70 percent to 80 percent share of that particular
market segment,” Hanses said.  Relative to Deutsche Telekom’s total business in Germany,
revenue from advertising is bound to remain small. The company
had sales of 28 billion euros in Germany in 2009, or 43 percent
of the worldwide total of 64.6 billion euros.  ‘Larger Market’  Deutsche Telekom has equipped 23 shopping centers with
screens and it has a deal with Rewe supermarkets. It also has
agreements with the Stuttgart,  Berlin-Tegel , Berlin-Schoenefeld,
Duesseldorf and Hannover  airports .  “We are about to sign contracts for another three to four
airports,” Hanses said. “When that happens, all German
airports will be in our network.”  Stroer prefers train stations and has a deal with train
operator Deutsche Bahn AG to roll out digital advertising
screens in the 200 largest train stations in November.  “We believe that digital advertising in airports is more
suited for long-term image campaigns rather than advertising
campaigns which run only during a period of only one or two
weeks,”  Udo Mueller , CEO of  Stroer , said in an interview.  Digital signage probably needs a year or two to get
industry acceptance, Hanses said. Ad agencies are careful about
allotting resources to media where the customer reach has yet to
be determined, he said. Deutsche Telekom has deals so far with
airlines  Deutsche Lufthansa AG , Easyjet Plc and Germanwings
GmbH, car-rental agency  Sixt AG  and luggage-maker Samsonite LLC.  “It could be that it can cover airports at one end of the
spectrum and be placed in the doctor’s waiting room,” at the
other, he said. “Then the market is significantly larger than
if you just define it as at airports, retailers and shopping
centers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;  Kristen Schweizer  in London at 
   kscweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  