-- Dodgers Finance Chief Disputes Jamie McCourt's Trial Testimony in Divorce
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-09-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/dodgers-finance-chief-disputes-jamie-mccourt-s-testimony-in-divorce-trial.html
Jamie McCourt, who is fighting her
estranged husband over ownership of the  Los Angeles Dodgers ,
thought the acquisition of the Major League Baseball team was
“risky,” its chief financial officer testified at the couple’s
divorce trial.  Peter Wilhelm, who was an outside consultant to  Frank McCourt  when he bought the Dodgers in 2004, said yesterday in
Los Angeles Superior Court that  Jamie McCourt ’s Sept. 20
testimony about the deal wasn’t consistent with what she said in
2003 when they were evaluating the purchase.  “I do recall her being not sure, or not sure at all,” at
an October 2003 meeting about the possibility of turning the
money-losing franchise around, Wilhelm said.  Frank McCourt, 57, claims his wife wanted a 2004
postnuptial agreement, which he says makes the team his sole
property, because she wanted to shield assets in her name from
liabilities he assumed to buy the Dodgers. Jamie McCourt, 56,
claims the agreement isn’t valid because she wasn’t told what it
entailed under California’s community property law in a divorce.  California Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon will rule
on the validity of the postnuptial after the non-jury trial. The
couple failed to reach a settlement during mediation on
Sept. 24.  Riskier Asset  Reynolds Cafferata, a California estate planning lawyer who
helped draft the disputed 2004 marital property agreement,
testified yesterday that he didn’t think it disadvantaged Jamie
McCourt because the Dodgers were a riskier asset than the homes
that were her sole property under the agreement.  “If it didn’t work out, he’d have no businesses left, and
there would still be the houses,” Cafferata said.  Michael Kump, a lawyer for Jamie McCourt, questioned
Cafferata about why the template used for the agreement had been
a prenuptial contract that under California family law doesn’t
need to lay out the fiduciary duties that spouses owe each other
in the way a postnuptial contract does. A postnuptial agreement
in California also doesn’t require spouses to disclose the value
of their respective assets.  Kump said the disproportionate value of Frank McCourt’s
assets compared with the assets that were in Jamie McCourt’s
name could give rise to a presumption of “undue influence.”  The couple were advised at the time they made the agreement
that they should seek separate legal representation because of
their conflicting interests, Cafferata said. Frank and Jamie
McCourt used the same lawyers for the agreement.  Overriding Purpose  Cafferata said that he thought the McCourts had an
understanding of what their assets were and that the couple’s
overriding purpose was to protect the homes from any business
creditors. If the Dodgers had become community property when the
couple moved to California, creditors would have been able to go
after assets in Jamie McCourt’s name, he said.  Jamie McCourt filed for divorce Oct. 27, six days after her
husband fired her as chief executive officer of the baseball
team. Frank McCourt accused her of insubordination and of
“inappropriate behavior with regard to a direct subordinate.”  The $421 million acquisition of the Dodgers from  Fox
Entertainment Group Inc.  closed on Feb. 13, 2004. The team is
now worth about $727 million, according to Forbes. Jamie McCourt
testified this month that it was “preposterous” to claim she
knowingly would have given up her rights to the Dodgers in a
divorce.  The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, Los Angeles
County Superior Court (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 