-- Dollar Thrifty Affirms Support for Hertz Global Offer
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2010-09-27T20:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/dollar-thrifty-auto-affirms-support-for-hertz-global-s-1-45-billion-offer.html
Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group
Inc.  affirmed its support of  Hertz Global Holdings Inc.’s  $1.46
billion takeover offer, spurning a higher bid from  Avis Budget
Group Inc.   “Avis Budget has not demonstrated to our satisfaction that
its proposed transaction can be completed in a timely manner and
that it would adequately protect our  shareholders  in the event
that Avis Budget is unable to obtain the required regulatory
approvals,” Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty said today in
a statement.  Avis raised the cash portion of its bid to $45.79 a  share 
on Sept. 23 and kept the stock portion at 0.6543 of an Avis
share, while declining to match Hertz’s termination fee, which
Dollar Thrifty requested. The offer valued Dollar Thrifty at
$53.09 a share, or $1.52 billion, based on today’s closing
prices. Hertz’s most recent bid, which it said was final, is
worth $50.78 a share, or $1.46 billion.  “Our final offer gives Dollar Thrifty shareholders the
only opportunity to realize a substantial premium by year-end,”
 Richard Broome , a Hertz spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Andrew Siegel , an Avis spokesman, declined to comment.  Dollar Thrifty shareholders are set to vote on the Hertz
proposal Sept. 30. The owner of the Dollar and Thrifty car-
rental brands has said it wants Avis to match Hertz’s $44.6
million breakup fee in case the acquisition doesn’t win
regulatory approval.  $70 a Share  Hertz could pay $70 a share for Dollar Thrifty and still
add to earnings, while Avis could pay that much without reducing
its profit,  Michael Millman , founder of Millman Research
Associates, wrote yesterday in a research note. Cost savings
weren’t included and could improve results, he said.  “Avis’ offer suffers from the lack of a reverse
termination fee, an important Dollar Thrifty demand to show
confidence of ‘deal certainty,’” Millman said. “A reverse
termination fee agreement would give Dollar Thrifty no choice
but to declare Avis’ offer a ‘superior offer.’”  Hertz, based in Park Ridge, New Jersey, rose 12 cents, or
1.1 percent, to $11.28 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite  trading . Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis rose 1 cent
to $11.15. Dollar Thrifty fell 24 cents to $50.79.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 