-- Draghi Says Biggest Banks May Face Tougher Rules Than Basel III Provisions
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-09-27T17:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/draghi-says-biggest-banks-may-face-tougher-rules-than-basel-iii-provisions.html
Financial Stability Board Chairman
 Mario Draghi  renewed calls for capital rules for the largest
lenders that go beyond the Basel III proposals earlier this
month from global regulators.  Draghi said in Paris today that systemically important
financial institutions should have the ability to absorb more
losses than smaller banks. Draghi, who is also governor of the
Bank of Italy, made similar comments in newspapers in the U.K.
and his home country earlier this month.  Regulators of the 27-nation  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  reached an agreement on Sept. 12 on new rules that
more than double capital requirements for banks, while giving
them as long as eight years to comply in full.  Adair Turner , the
chairman of the U.K. financial regulator, last week also said he
would have set higher capital requirements for systemically
important banks.  “We want a strong financial system with higher capital
standards,” Draghi said. “We have a proper transition period
so that we don’t risk hampering the economy.”  The  Basel Committee  proposals will force lenders to have
common equity equal to at least 7 percent of assets, weighted
according to their risk, including a 2.5 percent buffer to
withstand future stress. Banks that fail to meet the buffer
would be unable to pay dividends, though they wouldn’t be forced
to raise cash. Lenders will have less than five years to comply
with the minimum ratios and until Jan. 1, 2019, to meet the
buffer requirements.  G20 Meeting  The FSB will make additional proposals to the Group of 20
Nations at a November meeting in the South Korean capital. The
FSB was established by G20 leaders in April 2009 to coordinate
the work of national regulators and international standard
setting agencies.  The regulators and central bankers at the FSB are studying
what types of extra capital beyond the Basel III requirements
could be sought for the largest lenders, including capital
surcharges, contingent capital such as convertible bonds, or
“bailed-in assets.”  “The FSB and the Basel committee have been very clear
about this issue -- there will be some sort of additional
capital requirement coming for the biggest banks soon,” said
 Barbara Matthews , managing director of BCM International
Regulatory Analytics LLC in Washington. “Big banks should be
worried, and are already worried, because the combination of all
these new rules will have a great impact on their business
models and profitability.”  Changing Markets  Draghi said he was confident the U.S., which didn’t adopt
the last round of Basel reforms, would enact the latest
proposals.  “Markets are not what they were 25 years ago when you
could differentiate,” he said. “Everyone understands that
markets are global and everyone wants to avoid regulatory
arbitrage.”  Draghi also said that the FSB would give the G20 a set of
proposals on over-the-counter derivatives trading at the Seoul
meeting. The European Union is weighing rules that would force
most over-the-counter derivatives trades to go through central
clearinghouses.  The FSB is also reviewing proposals to reduce financial
institutions’ reliance on credit ratings firms, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  