-- Dubai Hires Deutsche Bank, HSBC, StanChart for Bond
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-27T12:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/dubai-government-hires-deutsche-bank-hsbc-stanchart-for-dollar-bond-sale.html
Dubai hired  Deutsche Bank AG ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc  and  Standard Chartered Plc  as joint lead managers
for a benchmark dollar bond offering, as the emirate taps the
market for the first time since the Dubai World debt crisis.  The bond is expected to be sold shortly, subject to market
conditions, and the proceeds will be used for general budgetary
purposes, according to a government statement today.  The government will seek to raise about $1 billion from the
sale of a five- to seven-year bond this week, two bankers
familiar with the plan said Sept 23. The sale will be the first
after state-owned Dubai World announced plans in November to
delay payments on $24.9 billion of debt, roiling global markets.  Dubai’s government last sold bonds in October, when the
Department of Finance raised $1.93 billion from five year,
fixed- and floating-rate Islamic notes. The Persian Gulf’s
financial hub that same month set up a $2.5 billion Islamic
medium-term note program and a $4 billion plan to sell regular
bonds. Dubai has yet to seek a credit rating.  The Dubai Department of Finance held a series of non-deal
fixed-income investor meetings in Asia in August and in Europe
in June. The meetings were aimed at providing regular updates to
both existing and prospective fixed-income investors around the
world on the emirate’s economy, it said then.  Dubai Electricity bond  Dubai Electricity & Water Authority was the last
government-owned entity to tap the capital market since the
Dubai World debt announcement. The utility sold $1 billion bonds
with a yield of 8.5 percent in April.  Dubai World said Sept. 10 creditors holding more than 99
percent of the value of its loans approved its restructuring
plan. Since that announcement, the cost to protect against a
default by Dubai dropped 22.8 points to 435.875, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dubai’s government had outstanding direct debt of 105.47
billion dirhams ($29 billion) at the end of July, according an
updated bond  prospectus  published on the London Stock Exchange
today. The debt includes funds borrowed to finance the expansion
of Dubai International Airport, other infrastructure projects,
borrowings by Investment Corp. of Dubai, and loans from the Abu
Dhabi government and the Central Bank of the United Arab
Emirates, the document said.  The government projected a deficit of 5.99 billion dirhams
this year, narrowing from 12.9 billion last year, according to
the bond prospectus. Revenue is expected to rise to 3.5 percent
to 29.4 billion dirhams in 2010, while spending is forecast to
drop 14.5 percent to 35.4 billion dirhams.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  