-- Dubai Said to Issue Five-Year, 10-Year Dollar Bonds
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2010-09-27T15:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/dubai-government-said-to-issue-5-year-10-year-dollar-bonds.html
Dubai is planning a benchmark sale
of bonds in dollars maturing in five and 10 years, according to
a banker familiar with the plan, as it taps debt markets for the
first time since the Dubai World crisis.  Dubai hired  Deutsche Bank AG ,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and
 Standard Chartered Plc  as joint lead managers for a dollar bond
offering, the government said in a statement today. Dubai
expects the notes to be sold subject to market conditions, with
the money used for the general budget, according to the
statement.  Dubai last sold bonds in October last year, when the
Department of Finance raised $1.93 billion from five-year
Islamic notes. In the same month, the Persian Gulf’s financial
hub set up a $2.5 billion Islamic medium-term note program and a
$4 billion plan to sell regular bonds. Dubai has yet to seek a
credit rating.  The new sale will be the first after state-owned Dubai
World announced plans in November to delay payments on $24.9
billion of debt, roiling global markets.  The Dubai Department of Finance held a series of investor
meetings in Asia in August and in Europe in June aimed at
providing updates to existing and prospective bondholders around
the world on the emirate’s economy, it said at the time.  Dubai Electricity Bond  Dubai Electricity & Water Authority was the last
government-owned entity to tap capital markets since the Dubai
World debt announcement. The utility sold $1 billion bonds with
a yield of 8.5 percent in April.  Dubai World said Sept. 10 creditors holding more than 99
percent of the value of its loans approved its restructuring
plan.  Dubai’s government had outstanding direct debt of 105.47
billion dirhams ($29 billion) at the end of July, according to
an updated bond  prospectus  published on the London Stock
Exchange today. The debt includes funds borrowed to finance the
expansion of Dubai International Airport, borrowings by
Investment Corp. of Dubai, and loans from the Abu Dhabi
government and the Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates, the
document said.  The government projected a deficit of 5.99 billion dirhams
this year, narrowing from 12.9 billion last year, according to
the prospectus. Revenue is expected to rise to 3.5 percent to
29.4 billion dirhams in 2010, while spending is forecast to drop
14.5 percent to 35.4 billion dirhams.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
 Stefania Bianchi  in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  