-- Dubai, Qatar Islamic Revive Gulf Debt Sales to Year High: Islamic Finance
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2010-09-27T08:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/dubai-qatar-islamic-revive-gulf-debt-sales-to-year-high-islamic-finance.html
The Dubai government and  Qatar
Islamic Bank SAQ  are among issuers leading the biggest Persian
Gulf borrowing push since the fourth quarter, a sign Dubai
World’s debt restructuring is reviving confidence in the region.  Dubai may sell $1 billion this week in its first bond sale
in a year, two bankers familiar with the plan said Sept. 23.
 Qatar Islamic Bank  plans to offer its first dollar sukuk and
will start meeting investors in the Middle East, Asia and Europe,
it said last week. Chief Executive Officer  Salah Mohammed Jaidah 
said May 19 the bank may issue as much as $750 million of notes
that comply with the religion’s ban on interest.  The sales would push Gulf issuance to more than $9 billion
in the third quarter, the most since the $16 billion raised in
the final three months of 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s
sovereign dollar sukuk rather than Malaysia’s has narrowed 46
basis points to 371 this quarter as the region recovered from
the worst financial crisis since the 1930s.  “There has been substantial global appetite for high-yield
bonds, which will help local issuers especially after the Dubai
World deal,”  Usman Ahmed , a senior fund manager in Dubai at
Emirates NBD Asset Management, which oversees $300 million in
bonds at the unit of the United Arab Emirates’ biggest lender,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Issuers waiting on
the sidelines will benefit from reduced risk premiums.”  The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf Cooperation Council
issuers dropped 125 basis points, or 1.25 percentage point, this
quarter to 6.23 percent on Sept. 24, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.   Sukuk Returns  The yield on Dubai’s 6.396 percent sukuk maturing in
November 2014 fell 119 basis points this quarter to 6.462
percent on Sept. 24, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Dubai
ruler  Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid  Al Maktoum said the emirate is
recovering after Dubai World, one of three main state-controlled
holding companies, reached an agreement this month with
creditors to change terms on $24.9 billion of debt.  “We are back,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Kentucky yesterday. “Of course we are back.”  Gulf sukuk have returned 4.9 percent this quarter,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index .
Debt in developing markets gained 7.2 percent, JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  The yield on Qatar’s 4 percent non-Islamic debt maturing in
January 2015 fell 62 basis points to 2.68 percent this quarter,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Malaysia’s 3.928 percent sukuk due June 2015 yielded 2.7
percent, down 81 basis points this quarter, according to prices
from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The spread between
the average yield for global sukuk and the London interbank
offered rate shrank 67 basis points to 377 this quarter,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index .  Qatar Islamic  Qatar Islamic’s sale will be the first global sukuk
issuance by a Gulf borrower since February when Saudi Arabia-
based  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co . raised $450
million. Kuwait’s Burgan Bank SAK, a lender part-owned by Kuwait
Projects Co., sold 10-year notes last week, raising $400 million.  Dubai’s government hired HSBC Holdings Plc, Deutsche Bank
AG and Standard Chartered Plc to manage the sale of five- to
seven-year bond, the two bankers said last week, declining to be
identified because the plan is yet to be made public.  Officials from the Dubai government and Qatar Islamic Bank
declined to comment when Bloomberg News contacted them by
telephone today, citing government policy.  Issuance Rebounds  Knight Libertas Ltd., a London-based firm that specializes
in high-yield bonds, said in a note Sept. 24 Dubai’s debt
restructuring will reduce the risk of default by other state-
owned Islamic and conventional borrowers.  Governments in the Gulf haven’t borrowed through global
sukuk sales since the Dubai Department of Finance issued a $1.25
billion Islamic bond in October. Islamic issuance from the six-
member Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes the United Arab
Emirates, Qatar and Saudi Arabia, has declined 24 percent this
year to $2.5 billion.  Economic growth in the Middle East will accelerate to 4.5
percent this year, from 2.4 percent in 2009, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in July.  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC, the biggest Shariah-compliant
lender in the U.A.E., said yesterday it will become the largest
shareholder in mortgage lender Tamweel PJSC as the emirate seeks
to restart mortgage lending after property prices slumped. The
yield on Tamweel’s 4.31 percent sukuk due in 2013 dropped 94
basis points this month to 18.53 percent on Sept. 24.  Qatar Islamic’s five-year sukuk is likely to yield between
3.75 percent to 4 percent, while Dubai may have to offer a yield
of up to 7 percent if the government issues a seven-year bond,
 Abdul Kadir Hussain , chief executive officer in Dubai at Mashreq
Capital DIFC Ltd. said in an interview yesterday.  “Qatar Islamic Bank will have a scarcity value to it,”
Hussain said. “Emerging market funds are cash rich and new
deals have generally been successful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Haris Anwar  in Dubai on 
 Hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
 Camilla Hall  in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  