-- Dubai Shares Drop on Concern 15% Gain This Month Is Overdone; Emaar Falls
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2010-09-27T14:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/dubai-shares-drop-on-concern-15-gain-this-month-is-overdone-emaar-falls.html
Dubai shares declined for the first
time in three days on speculation recent gains are overdone
given growth prospects in the emirate.  Emaar Properties PJSC , builder of the world’s tallest
tower, retreated 1.8 percent after Standard & Poor’s affirmed
its negative outlook on the stock.  Emirates NBD PJSC,  the United
Arab Emirates’ biggest bank by assets, lost the most in more
than two months. The  DFM General Index  slid 1 percent to
1,699.12 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index  slipped 0.2 percent.  Dubai’s measure jumped 15 percent this month including a
6.7 percent gain since Dubai World, one of three main holding
companies, said Sept. 10 that 99 percent of creditors agreed to
alter the terms on $24.9 billion of debt. Twenty-one shares
including Emaar were added to the FTSE’s Global Equity Index
after the close on Sept. 17 as the U.A.E. was classified as a
secondary emerging market, also helping push up local stocks
this month.  The market “is letting off some steam” after this month’s
gains, said  Hassan El Salah , deputy head of institutional
equities at Al Ramz Securities LLC, an Abu Dhabi-based
brokerage. “There’s some light profit-taking.”  Emaar Rating  The Dubai government will seek to raise about $1 billion
from a bond sale this week, two bankers familiar with the plan
said Sept. 23. The bond sale will tap the market for the first
time since Dubai World’s announcement.  Emirates NBD slumped 3 percent, the most since July 18, to
2.88 dirhams. Emaar fell to 3.80 dirhams, the first decline in
three days. S&P today kept its rating on Emaar at BB with a
negative outlook. “The negative outlook reflects our view of
the challenging property market conditions in Dubai, together
with Emaar’s weak liquidity and short debt maturity profile,”
S&P said.  Emaar has a $1 billion loan due February 2012, according to
 Bloomberg data . “Failure to lengthen debt maturities could lead
to a downgrade,” S&P said.  Qatar’s  index  fell 0.7 percent, the most in a month. Oman’s
 MSM 30 Index  and the  Kuwait SE Price Index  gained 0.1 percent.
Abu Dhabi’s  measure  rose 0.3 percent to the highest since May
and Bahrain’s  gauge  increased 0.6 percent. Saudi Arabia’s
 benchmark stock index  was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zahra Hankir  in Dubai at   zhankir@bloomberg.net  or  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 