-- Ed Miliband Says He `Strongly' Believes in Need to Cut U.K. Budget Deficit
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2010-09-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/ed-miliband-to-say-brown-was-wrong-to-claim-end-to-boom-and-bust-in-u-k-.html
Ed Miliband , the newly elected
leader of the U.K.’s Labour Party, will say today that his
predecessor,  Gordon Brown , was wrong to argue that his policies
could end the economic cycle of “boom and bust.”  In a speech designed to distance himself from the mistakes
that led Labour to electoral defeat in May after 13 years in
power, Miliband will pledge a more humble tone, as well as
challenging the economic orthodoxy that led to the worst
financial crisis in more than 60 years. Without giving
indications of future policy, he will say the Labour governments
of Brown and  Tony Blair  didn’t do enough to control mounting
personal debt, regulate banks and secure jobs.  “When you saw jobs disappear and economic security
undermined, I understand your anger at a Labour government that
claimed it could end boom and bust,” Miliband will tell
activists today at the  party’s annual conference  in Manchester,
northwest England, according to excerpts from the speech
released by his office.  The 40-year-old former energy secretary, who became leader
of the party Sept. 25, was an adviser in the Treasury when Brown
was chancellor of the exchequer under Blair. Miliband will
suggest that the Labour Party’s acceptance of low taxation and
light regulation of financial institutions was misguided.  ‘I Understand’  “When you saw the worst financial crisis in a generation,
I understand your anger that Labour hadn’t stood up to the old
ways in the City, which said deregulation was the answer,” he
will say, according to his office.  During his decade as chancellor, Brown presided over the
longest unbroken economic expansion on record. Arguing that
growth had been underpinned by the 1997 decision to give the
Bank of England control over interest rates and by his own rules
to constrain government borrowing, Brown said repeatedly Labour
had put an end to “boom and bust.”  Within months of becoming prime minister in 2007, though,
Brown was forced to nationalize banks as the financial crisis
swept the globe. As spending to shore up the banks and stimulate
the economy increased, Britain’s  budget deficit  rose to 11
percent of national output, the highest among Group of 20
countries.  Brown’s policy framework failed to include action to stem
record levels of household debt and permitted excessive risk
taking by banks, using a “light touch” approach to regulating
the finance industry.  Worst Result  Miliband needs to win back the voters who deserted the
party at the election, when it achieved its worst result since
1983, forcing Brown’s resignation as premier and party leader.
Miliband failed to gain majority support in the leadership
election among party members and lawmakers and owed his victory
over his older brother,  David , the former foreign secretary, to
labor-union votes.  Former Chancellor  Alistair Darling , who backed  David Miliband  for the leadership, said last night there were
“oddities” in the party’s electoral system regarding the
“proportion of influence” given to unions. “There may well be a
case for asking ourselves whether this is the right thing.”  David said yesterday he would wait until after Ed had
addressed the conference before deciding whether to join his
team of opposition spokesmen. The Financial Times reported that
Ed had asked David to take the finance brief.  ‘Still Young’  “I hope David remains heavily engaged with the Labour
Party,” Darling told a fringe event at the conference. “He’s
still young and he has a huge amount to give.”  In his keynote address today, Ed Miliband will set out his
values, which he will say are inspired by his parents’ plight as
Jewish refugees who fled to Britain from Nazi persecution in
1940. While standing by many of Blair’s and Brown’s achievements
in office, he will say the party lost its ability to adapt and
“became the establishment.”  “How did a party with such achievements to its name end up
losing 5 million votes between 1997 and 2010?” he will say.
“The hard truth for everybody in this hall is that a party that
started out by taking on old thinking became the prisoner of its
own certainties.”  The son of Ralph Miliband, a Marxist intellectual, Ed was
educated at Oxford University and the London School of
Economics. He worked for Brown at the Treasury from 1997 to 2002
before going to the U.S. to teach economics at Harvard.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Gonzalo Vina  in Manchester, England, at  gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 