-- Electronic Arts Delays Basketball Game Until 2011
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2010-09-27T22:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/electronic-arts-delays-basketball-game-until-2011-update1-.html
--  Electronic Arts Inc. , the
second-largest video-game publisher, delayed the October release
of its “NBA Elite” sports title until 2011 after concluding
the game needed more work.  “We are going to keep working until we’re certain we can
deliver a breakthrough basketball experience,” Redwood City,
California-based Electronic Arts said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Faced with a decline in consumer spending on video-game
software, Electronic Arts and other publishers have been
delaying releases to spend more time polishing the work.
Companies have been increasingly mindful of the need for high
marks on game reviews compiled by  Metacritic.com .  Electronic Arts didn’t provide a specific release date for
“NBA Elite.” It had been scheduled to ship Oct. 5. “NBA
Jam,” another basketball title, remains on schedule for
Nintendo Co.’s Wii on Oct. 5.  David Tinson , a spokesman for the
company, said versions for Sony Corp.’s PlayStation 3 and
Microsoft Corp.’s Xbox 360, which weren’t previously announced,
will be shipped before the holiday shopping period.  Activision Blizzard Inc. , the world’s largest video-game
publisher, delayed its “True Crime: Hong Kong” fighting game
until next year, citing similar reasons, Chief Operating Officer
 Thomas Tippl  said on an August conference call. New York-based
 Take-Two Interactive Software Inc.  in September delayed its “LA
Noire” detective game until 2011.  Electronic Arts fell 17 cents to $16.40 in extended  trading 
after the news. The stock gained 11 cents to $16.57 at 4 p.m.
New York Time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cliff Edwards  in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 