-- Emerging Stocks Advance for Second Day on Takeovers, Economy
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2010-09-27T23:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/emerging-stocks-advance-as-u-s-capital-goods-report-eases-growth-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks rose,
extending the benchmark index’s rally to the highest level since
July 2008, as takeover activity and signs that the global
economic recovery is intact boosted investor confidence.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.8 percent to
1,061.57 as of 6:27 p.m. in New York, extending a 9.4 percent
rally during the past four weeks. China’s  Shanghai Composite
Index  gained 1.4 percent and the yuan hit the strongest level
since 1993. Equity gauges in the  Philippines , Indonesia and
Turkey advanced to records. South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All
Shares Index  rose 0.9 percent as Massmart Holdings Ltd. surged
11 percent on a buyout offer from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.   Thailand’s  SET Index  climbed to the highest level since
November 1996 and the baht strengthened to a 13-year high after
the government raised its 2010 economic growth forecast for the
third time in six months. A Sept. 24 report that showed rising
demand for American capital equipment, along with plans by Japan
to consider a new stimulus package, eased concern that global
demand will falter.  “We remain fairly constructive on the U.S. and hence the
global economy,”  Gavin Stacey , a strategist at Barclays Capital
in Sydney, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “There’s
all this liquidity sloshing around and ultimately, it’s going to
go into equities, and most likely emerging market equities.”  Roubini Outlook  The economic recovery in emerging markets is likely to be
“robust” and V-shaped, New York University Professor Nouriel
Roubini said in a speech in Kuala Lumpur today. The MSCI
emerging index may rise about 25 percent from its current level
to 1,325 in 2011, Credit Suisse Group AG strategists Sakthi Siva
and  Kin Nang Chik  wrote in a report.  Massmart advanced to a record after Wal-Mart, the world’s
largest retailer, offered to buy the company in a transaction
worth about $4.6 billion.  Wal-Mart’s proposed offer of 148 rand ($21.10) a share
would value South Africa’s second-largest listed retailer at
about 32 billion rand including share options, Massmart Chief
Executive Officer  Grant Pattison  said today. The offer price is
9.8 percent higher than Massmart’s last closing price and 66
percent above the share price at the end of last year.  The rand rose 0.1 percent, earlier touching its strongest
level in more than 2 1/2 years against the dollar after the
Massmart announcement.  Separately, Unilever agreed to buy Alberto Culver Co. for
$3.7 billion in cash to add VO5, Nexxus and TRESemme hair-care
products in the company’s biggest purchase in a decade.
Unilever, based in London and Rotterdam, gets about 40 percent
of its  revenue  from Asia and Africa, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Thailand Rally  Thailand’s SET Index rose 1.1 percent and the baht
strengthened 0.4 percent against the dollar. Gross domestic
product may expand 7.3 percent to 7.8 percent in 2010, with a
mid-point forecast of 7.5 percent, Thailand’s Finance Ministry
said today. The ministry in June raised the estimate to as much
as 6 percent from a March projection of as much as 5 percent.  Orders  for U.S. capital equipment rebounded 4.1 percent in
August from a 5.3 percent decline in July, figures from the
Commerce Department showed on Sept. 24 in Washington. The median
forecast of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an
increase of 3 percent.  Japan is considering a stimulus package of as much as 4.6
trillion yen ($54.6 billion) that will be funded with existing
revenue, a government official said as policy makers seek to
shore up the nation’s recovery.  Chinese Profits  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration will aim to avoid
increasing issuance of government bonds, and pay for the package
by allocating higher-than-forecast tax revenue and left over
funds from the 2009 budget, the official said on condition of
anonymity.  The Shanghai Composite gauge advanced the most in three
weeks as shares began trading after a three-day holiday and a
report showed industrial profits jumped 55 percent during the
first eight months of 2010. Dongfang Electric Corp., a maker of
power equipment, jumped 10 percent.  The yuan touched 6.6859, the strongest level since the
central bank unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993.  Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  climbed 2.1 percent,
while the Philippine Stock Exchange Index advanced 1.1 percent
and Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index rose 0.6 percent. India’s
Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index increased 0.4 percent,
while Brazil’s Bovespa gained 0.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  