-- Emerging Economies to Outgrow Developed Nations by 2015, World Bank Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2010-09-27T10:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/emerging-nations-to-outgrow-rich-ones-by-2015-world-bank-says.html
Emerging nations will account for a
bigger portion of the global economy than developed countries by
2015, as middle-class populations from southeast Asia to Latin
America expand while public and private investment grows,
according to a World Bank report.  “Developing countries have come to the global economy’s
rescue,” Otaviano Canuto, World Bank vice president for poverty
reduction and economic management, said in an e-mailed
statement. “They are the new locomotives of growth which will
move global growth forward while high-income countries remain
stagnant.”  Emerging markets have been leading the world out of the
worst recession in six decades, with China surpassing Japan as
the world’s second-largest economy last quarter. International
Monetary Fund chief economist  Olivier Blanchard  last week
predicted “positive but low growth in advanced countries”
while developing nations expand at a “very high” rate.  Emerging economies are finding autonomous sources of growth
as “they have room for more leverage in the balance sheets of
their public and private sectors,” according to the report,
which also identified high commodities prices and technological
catch-up as a source of strength.  After trade shrank in the global recession, the World Bank
economists are forecasting increased commerce between developing
countries and a diversification of products in world trade.  Managing Exchange Rates  These changes in trade patterns mean managing exchange
rates may not be an effective instrument for expanding markets,
the economists said.  Artificially high exchange rates may interfere with the
need to import goods that are turned into exported products, the
report said. At the same time, the cost of maintaining an
undervalued currency “in terms of reserve accumulation and
inflationary pressures will prove unbearable,” they said.  The increase in sovereign wealth funds’ size and number
will also translate into higher “south-south” investment, such
as China’s purchases of African assets, the authors said.  Emerging economies’ situations differ, with Latin America
“well positioned to enter a path of fast and sustained
development” while Eastern Europe and Central Asia, the regions
that were hardest hit by the financial crisis, need to improve
competitiveness, according to the report.  The East Asia and Pacific region, which is leading the
recovery, still needs to make progress on economic integration
and climate change, with China having to expand domestic
consumption and services, the report said.  South Asia’s priority is to reduce fiscal deficits and
control debt accumulation, while sub-Saharan Africa has to focus
on improving infrastructure and job creation, the report said.
The Middle East and North Africa need to open the door to a new
generation of private entrepreneurs and to let women fully join
economic life, it said.  The report, called “The Day after Tomorrow: A handbook on
the future of economic policy in the developing world,” used
IMF forecasts for global gross domestic products, which are made
using purchasing-power-parity-adjusted exchange rates, to
predict emerging nations’ growth rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  