-- Enel's Endesa Sells Spanish Gas Distribution Assets to Goldman Sachs Fund
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2010-09-27T10:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/endesa-sells-gas-distribution-assets-to-goldman-funds-update1-.html
Endesa SA , a Spanish utility
controlled by  Enel SpA  of Italy, agreed to sell 80 percent of
its natural gas distribution assets to two infrastructure funds
managed by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  to reduce debt.  The sale will have a “positive impact” of about 450
million euros ($606 million) on pretax profit and of 800 million
euros on net  debt , the Madrid-based company said today. The deal
values the assets at about 1 billion euros, Endesa said.  Enel, Italy’s biggest utility, owns 92 percent of Endesa
after gaining control in 2007. As part of that deal, Endesa
transferred some renewable-energy units to builder Acciona SA
and sold assets to Germany’s  E.ON AG . The company is selling
more units to lower debt after the takeover.  Endesa expects to close the sale of the gas assets this
year and has an option to repurchase the stake in five to seven
years, according to today’s statement. The assets include a
3,800 kilometers (2,362 miles) gas-distribution network, 600
kilometers of transportation and 355,000 supply points.  Goldman’s infrastructure funds, which manage about 9
billion euros in assets, were advised by Goldman Sachs
International in Madrid,  Andrew Hazell , an external spokesman
for the investment bank, said by telephone.  Separately, the Endesa distribution unit also bought a 35
percent stake in Gas Aragon SA for at least 70 million euros,
according to a statement today from the seller,  Gas Natural SDG
SA , Spain’s biggest gas distributor.  Reduce Debt  Rome-based Enel will meet a target to cut  debt  by 6 billion
euros to 45 billion euros after completing an initial public
offering of renewable-energy unit Enel Green Power, selling the
gas distribution assets and a stake in a Bulgarian coal-fired
plant, Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  said in a Sept. 21
interview.  Endesa  shares have dropped 17 percent in Madrid this year,
cutting its market value to 21 billion euros. Enel is down 3.2
percent in Milan this year, giving it a value of 37 billion
euros.  Red Electrica Corp. SA , the manager of Spain’s power grid,
on July 1 said it agreed to pay Endesa 1.27 billion euros for
electricity transportation assets in regions including the
Balearic and Canary Islands. Endesa also sold its stake in the
Sagunto regasification plant to  Osaka Gas Co.  this year.  Endesa had power generation capacity of 39,108 megawatts at
the end of June, including 34 percent in hydropower plants, 24
percent in fuel oil units, 16 percent each in coal- and gas-
fired plants and 9 percent in nuclear reactors. Iberdrola SA is
Spain’s biggest electricity company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Sills  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  