-- Henderson Says Chairman Lee Shau-Kee's Son May Buy Stake in TVB
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2010-09-27T12:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/henderson-investment-surges-on-report-lee-to-buy-control-of-tvb.html
Henderson Land Development Co.  Vice
Chairman Lee Ka-kit, son of the company’s billionaire founder
 Lee Shau-kee , may buy a stake in  Television Broadcasts Ltd. , the
developer said.  Lee Ka-kit is studying a plan for the possible investment
which is unrelated to the company or to unit  Henderson
Investment Ltd. ,  Bonnie Ngan , a spokeswoman at the developer,
said by phone today. Lee Shau-kee hasn’t held talks with TVB
Chairman  Run Run Shaw ’s Shaw Brothers (Hong Kong) Ltd. about the
stake, Ngan said. Lee Ka-kit’s interest is preliminary and no
agreement has been reached, she said.  Henderson Investment earlier surged to its highest in more
than two years in Hong Kong trading after Apple Daily said
Chairman  Lee Shau-kee  may pay more than HK$9 billion ($1.2
billion) to buy control of Television Broadcasts. The company
known as TVB operates the city’s biggest TV station, with a more
than 80 percent share of the local free-to-air TV advertising
market, according to consultants Media Partners Asia Ltd.  “Investors are trading on speculation that Henderson
Investment will be the vehicle to buy TVB,” said  Francis Lun ,
general manager at Fulbright Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “I
don’t know why Henderson is interested in TVB. Profit for
property development is much higher than that of the
entertainment business.”  Lee Shau-kee reached an agreement to buy the controlling
stake in TVB held by  Shaw , Apple Daily reported on Sept. 25,
citing people it didn’t identify. Lee, ranked as Hong Kong’s
second-richest man by Forbes magazine, controls the city’s main
piped gas utility and the  fourth-biggest local property
developer  by market value.  Shares Surge  Henderson Investment  climbed  25 percent to 90 Hong Kong
cents, the highest closing price since May 2008, in Hong Kong
trading today. The shares surged as much as 35 percent earlier
in the day. Henderson Land  rose  2.9 percent to HK$54.85.  Chairman Shaw’s Shaw Holdings Inc. is in preliminary talks
with “interested parties” about the possible sale of shares in
Shaw Brothers, owner of a 26 percent stake in TVB, the
broadcaster said in a filing today. No agreement has been
reached, according to the filing, which didn’t give details of
the prospective buyers.  TVB was suspended today after jumping 17 percent in pre-
market trading pending the filing. The stock will resume trading
tomorrow.  TVB’s Controlling Shareholder  Shaw, 102, is the biggest shareholder in  TVB  with a 32.5
percent stake, according to TVB’s interim report last month.
That’s valued at about HK$5.7 billion, based on TVB’s market
capitalization of HK$17.43 billion on Sept. 24.  Lee Shau-kee’s estimated wealth of $18.5 billion ranks him
behind only Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. Chairman  Li Ka-shing 
among Hong Kong’s richest, according to a Forbes magazine survey
in March. Lee controls  Henderson Land  and  Hong Kong and China
Gas Co.   Shaw, knighted by Britain’s  Queen Elizabeth II  in 1977, co-
founded TVB in 1967 after his Shaw Brothers became a leading
local film producer. In October 2008, he abandoned talks to sell
his stake in TVB because of the global recession, the
broadcaster said in a filing at the time.  TVB is one of the world’s biggest producers of Chinese-
language programs, with distribution in more than 30 countries,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  