-- Eni, Mitsubishi to Bid for Iraqi Gas Field Rights, Oil Production Climbs
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2010-09-27T16:47:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/eni-mitsubishi-to-bid-for-iraqi-gas-field-rights-oil-production-climbs.html
Eni SpA  is among international
companies interested in bidding to develop natural-gas fields in
Iraq, while  China National Petroleum Corp.  and others reported
progress producing oil there, officials and executives said.  Italy’s Eni and  Mitsubishi Corp.  of Japan are two of 13
companies to have registered to bid on gas contracts that Iraq
is preparing to auction next month, Abdul Hadi al-Hassani, vice
chairman of the oil and gas committee of the country’s
parliament, said today. Together with a dozen oilfield contracts
awarded last year, the bidding round for gas rights planned for
Oct. 20 marks a step forward in Iraq’s campaign to boost the
output of its most valuable commodities.  Iraq, home to the world’s fourth-largest oil reserves,
wants to more than double its current crude production of 2.4
million barrels a day. The government hopes to pump 12 million
barrels a day within as little as six years.  To meet this goal, the country will need to refurbish oil
fields and installations that have suffered from decades of war
and under-investment. Iraqi officials and company executives
gave updates on their efforts at a conference in Istanbul.  “Iraq will see an increase in its current oil production
capacity of several-fold in the next decades,” said  Thamir Ghadhban,  the government’s oil adviser. A “sophisticated”
system for supplying water and injecting it into underground oil
reservoirs will help Iraq achieve “a huge ramp-up” in output of
crude and gas, Ghadhban said.  Adding Pumps  CNPC increased its monthly production at the Rumaila oil
field in southern Iraq, the company’s Basra-based director Zheng
Xiaowu said in an interview. By adding pumps and perforating
wells to capture more oil, CNPC pumped 1.09 million barrels a
day compared with less than 1 million barrels a day last month,
Zheng said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  has started to remove war refuse and
unexploded munitions at the Majnoon oil field, as part of a plan
to develop the Iraqi reservoir and raise production there to
175,000 barrels a day in two years, said  Mounir Bouaziz , the
company’s vice president for the Middle East. Majnoon produced
45,000 barrels a day in March, Bouaziz said at that time.  “We started de-mining, clearing the location and the
access roads, because the area was a battlefield,” he said
today. “We are waiting for the approval of the Iraqi oil
ministry for the drilling contracts and the facilities.”  Lost Pressure  Crude output at the West Qurna 1 field may increase as much
as 10-fold, said James Adams, Exxon Mobil Corp.’s head of
operations in Iraq, speaking at a separate industry event today
in Doha, Qatar. West Qurna 1 is producing between 200,000 to
250,000 barrels a day, down from a peak of 400,000 barrels in
2004 due to a loss of pressure inside the well, he said.  Exxon Mobil wants to restore pressure by injecting water
into the field. Iraq’s government has asked the company to help
build a water-injection facility that would also serve other
fields in the country’s south. Upon its expected completion
after three years, the injection unit could pump as much as 15
million barrels of seawater a day, Adams said.  Exxon Mobil is “still evaluating” whether to participate
in the October  natural-gas round , he added. Bidders will be
vying to develop the Akkas, Mansouriya and Siba gas fields.  As international companies intensify their efforts, Iraq’s
the government is seeking to upgrade export and storage
facilities.  ‘Megapipeline’ Plans  Among its planned projects is construction of two offshore
“megapipelines” and three single-buoy moorings where tankers
can load crude, said Ghadhban, chairman of the prime minister’s
advisory committee. Each mooring could add 900,000 barrels a day
in offshore loading capacity. The oil ministry will seek
government approval within two weeks for plans to build these
facilities, he told the Istanbul conference.  Ghadhban told reporters that Iraq’s Council of Ministers
has already approved a “grand master plan” to build out the
country’s pipeline network. The government aims to lay pipelines
to Syria and connect oil fields and the port of Basra in
southern Iraq to the pipeline network in the country’s north.  Security remains a problem at many of Iraq’s oil
installations, notably the pipeline that transports crude from
northern oil fields near Kirkuk to an export terminal in Ceyhan,
Turkey. Insurgents continue to target the pipeline for attack;
authorities halted the flow of crude for four days after a
bombing on Aug. 20.  The inability of Iraq’s political parties to form a new
government after parliamentary elections on March 7 poses
another challenge. The deadlock has coincided with an upsurge in
violence, leading some investors to delay projects in the
country.  The political deadlock “really hasn’t affected the pace
of decisions or approvals” relating to Exxon Mobil’s activity at
West Qurna 1, Adams said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;  Robert Tuttle  in Doha at   rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  