-- Merkel's CDU Agrees to Scrap Army Draft, Raises Welfare in Show of `Drive'
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-09-27T13:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/merkel-s-cdu-agrees-to-scrap-army-draft-raises-welfare-in-show-of-drive-.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democratic bloc agreed to scrap military conscription
and raise welfare payments for some long-term unemployed in what
Merkel said signaled her year-old coalition’s “drive.”  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and its CSU Bavarian
sister party backed plans to ditch the draft and move to a
professional army in the “foreseeable future,” the chancellor
told reporters today. They also agreed to raise so-called Hartz
IV welfare payments to 364 euros ($491) per month and signed off
on immigration and energy plans, she said.  “We are now going to move forward with drive and energy,”
Merkel said in Berlin after the two-day party meeting. Her
coalition with the Free Democrats is “creating the conditions
for securing tomorrow’s prosperity in the face of global
competition and demographic change.”  One year to the day since her re-election, support for
Merkel’s coalition is near historic lows after months of
bickering over policy from tax cuts to health care. Polls show
the CDU might lose control of Baden-Wuerttemberg for the first
time since 1952 in a state election in March, a result  Uwe Andersen , a politics professor at the University of Bochum, has
said would be a “nuclear meltdown” for Merkel and her party.  The opposition Social Democrats and Greens, which lead the
government in opinion polls, are threatening to block the
coalition’s energy and welfare plans in the upper house, where
Merkel lost her a majority after a state election defeat in May.  The coalition parties said today they will raise welfare
payments by 5 euros a month after earlier considering increases
of about 40 euros. The Federal Constitutional Court ruled on
Feb. 9 that the government had to recalculate the base amount it
grants adults and their children who are eligible for Hartz IV.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  