-- European Stocks Advance for Second Day; U.S. Index Futures Gain
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2010-09-27T16:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/european-u-s-stock-index-futures-gain-on-optimism-japan-will-spur-growth.html
European stocks  declined for the
fourth time in five days amid speculation that this month’s
rally may have overshot the outlook for economic growth.  Actelion Ltd., the largest Swiss biotechnology company,
sank 8 percent after its clazosentan medicine didn’t meet the
main goal of a study. Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s
largest maker of wind turbines, slid 3.8 percent as Financial
Times Deutschland reported that Germany has scrapped provisions
for funding energy programs. Unilever increased 1.3 percent
after agreeing to buy Alberto Culver Co. for $3.7 billion.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 0.4 percent to
262.92 at the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London after earlier
rising as much as 0.5 percent. The measure has surged 68 percent
since March 2009 amid speculation that stimulus measures by
governments around the world will cement the recovery from the
first global recession since World War II.  “There will inevitably be some disappointment -- either in
the form of poor economic or earnings data, or signals that
quantitative easing will be deferred,”  David Shairp , a global
strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in London, wrote in a
report today. “It probably suggests that, short term, a little
risk could be taken off the table.”  The Stoxx 600 has rallied 4.6 percent in September and 8.1
percent so far this  quarter  as investors speculated that the
economy will continue to grow even as European nations slash
spending to control their budget deficits and China takes steps
to cool growth.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes declined in 15 of the 18 western
European markets today. France’s CAC 40 fell 0.4 percent and
Germany’s DAX lost 0.3 percent. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  retreated
0.5 percent  New York University Professor  Nouriel Roubini  said there’s
a high probability of another U.S. recession, with Japan’s
outlook “anemic,” underscoring risks to the global recovery.  China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, may face
greater headwinds should there be weak growth in the U.S. and
Europe, Roubini said in Kuala Lumpur today, where he was
attending a conference. Second-quarter gross domestic product
figures for the U.S. are likely to be revised lower after
“awful” June real-estate numbers, he also said.  Japan is considering compiling a stimulus package totaling
as much as 4.6 trillion yen ($54.6 billion) that will be funded
with existing revenue, a government official said on condition
of anonymity.  ‘Still Constructive’  “Central banks remain accommodative,”  Mislav Matejka , the
head of pan-European equity strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
wrote in a report today. “We find the backdrop for stocks still
constructive.”  Two years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., investors still aren’t willing to pay more than
liquidation value for banks in developed nations. Bears say the
combination of slowing economic growth, the weak U.S. housing
market and increasing regulation mean bank profits will be
limited and bad loans may increase.  The  KBW Bank Index  trades at 95 percent of book value, a
level never seen before 2008, while stocks of lenders in Europe
and Japan are also lower than their assets minus liabilities.
Financial firms in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index have risen 6
percent this quarter, the smallest gain for any industry and
about half the return for the gauge of American equities.  Actelion, Switzerland’s largest biotechnology company, sank
8 percent to 40 Swiss francs after saying its clazosentan
medicine didn’t meet the main goal of a study in patients who
had suffered from bleeding in the brain.  AstraZeneca, Vestas  AstraZeneca Plc  declined 1.6 percent to 3,280 pence as its
experimental cancer treatment zibotentan also missed a main
study goal after failing to help patients with a kind of
prostate tumor live longer.  Vestas slipped 3.8 percent to 202.1 kroner. The German
government has scaled back its energy and climate change plan,
scrapping provisions for some carbon dioxide emissions cuts and
money for energy programs, Financial Times Deutschland reported.  Unilever gained 1.3 percent to 1,816 pence in London as the
maker of Dove shower gel agreed to buy Alberto Culver to add VO5
and Nexxus to become the world’s largest maker of hair-
conditioning products.  Micro Focus International Plc climbed 5.3 percent to 385.2
pence, the biggest gain in the  Stoxx 600 , as Barclays Plc rated
the U.K. maker of business software “buy” in new coverage.  Latecoere, Pernod  Latecoere SA  rallied 15 percent to 7.15 euros. Spirit
Aerosystems Holdings Inc., the airplane component maker spun off
from Boeing Co. in 2005, is mulling a bid for Toulouse, France-
based Latecoere, Le Figaro said. Officials from Wichita, Kansas-
based Spirit will meet Latecoere Chairman  Pierre Gadonneix  to
discuss a tie-up, the French daily newspaper reported, without
giving a date for the meeting or citing anybody.  Pernod Ricard SA rose 1.9 percent to 60.45 euros. The
company had an increase in summer sales of 7 percent versus
2008, La Lettre de L’Expansion reported, without citing anyone.
Pernod Ricard benefited from a recovery in demand in cafes,
hotels and restaurants, according to the weekly newsletter,
which didn’t define the dates of the summer period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 