-- Mexican Mayor May Have Been Stoned to Death, Marks 11th City Chief Killed
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2010-09-27T21:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/mexican-interim-mayor-becomes-country-s-11th-city-chief-killed-this-year.html
An interim mayor of the Mexican
town of Tancitaro in Michoacan state became the country’s 11th
city chief killed this year, and may have been stoned to death.  State officials were conducting an autopsy to confirm the
cause of death after Gustavo Sanchez’s corpse was found on a
road in the Michoacan city of Uruapan, said an official at the
state attorney general’s office who can’t be identified because
of the agency’s policies. He said there were signs the victim
may have been killed with rocks.  The official didn’t say whether there had been any arrests
in the case or say who may have been responsible.  Sanchez became interim mayor in December 2009 after the
town’s elected mayor resigned due to intimidation from organized
crime groups, newspaper Milenio  reported  on its website.  Sanchez was the third Mexican city leader to be attacked in
the past five days. The mayor-elect of Gran Morelos, Chihuahua,
was shot and injured as he worked at his veterinary office on
Sept. 24, and the mayor of the town of Doctor Gonzalez in Nuevo
Leon state was killed Sept. 23.  Targeting of public officials in Mexico is rising as deaths
related to drug trafficking this year are on pace to reach their
highest level since President  Felipe Calderon  took office in
December 2006. At least 28,000 people have been killed during
Calderon’s administration in violence tied to organized crime.  The number of deaths related to criminal groups totaled
about 4,250 in the second quarter, an 85 percent increase from
the same period a year earlier, according to figures from a
government report released in July.  Sanchez was an elementary school teacher and didn’t belong
to a political party, newspaper El Universal  reported . His
personal assistant Rafael Equihua was also killed, the newspaper
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan J. Levin  in Mexico City at 
 Jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  