-- Japanese Exports Expand at Slowest Pace This Year as Global Demand Cools
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2010-09-27T01:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/export-growth-slows-as-cooling-demand-stronger-yen-threaten-recovery.html
Japan’s exports grew at the slowest
pace this year in August as a decrease in global demand and an
advance in the yen threaten to undermine the nation’s recovery.  Overseas shipments  increased 15.8 percent from a year
earlier, the slowest since December, the Finance Ministry said
in Tokyo today. The median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 19 percent increase.  Today’s report underscores concern that the country’s
recovery may falter after cooling exports and stagnant consumer
demand more than halved the nation’s growth rate last quarter.
Japanese authorities intervened in the foreign-exchange market
this month for the first time since 2004 after the yen’s surge
to a 15-year high against the dollar threatened earnings of
exporters such as  Sony Corp.  and  Honda Motor Co.   “Exports are losing steam, reflecting a slowdown in the
global economy,” said  Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist at Dai-
Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “There are few people
expecting Japan will fall back into a recession now, but if the
yen resumes rising there’s a chance that could happen.”  The Japanese currency has gained 10 percent against the
dollar this year, eroding the value of profits exporters earn
overseas and hurting their competitiveness abroad. It traded at
84.33 as of 10:34 a.m. from 84.39 before the report.  ‘Impossible’ to Win  “It’s impossible for Japan to win in global markets with
the currency in the 80-yen range,”  Koji Miyahara , chairman of
the Japan Shipowners Association, said on Sept. 15. “Japan’s
new administration should show it has zero tolerance for a
stronger currency and should come up with additional steps,”
said Miyahara, who is also chairman of Nippon Yusen K.K.,
Japan’s biggest shipping line.  From a month earlier, exports fell 2.3 percent, today’s
report showed. Imports climbed 17.9 percent in August from a
year earlier. The trade surplus fell for the first time in 15
months to 103 billion yen ($1.2 billion).  The stronger currency is driving investment abroad as
exporters try to protect their profits from currency risk.
Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest automaker, said this
month that Indonesia has the potential to become an export base
much like Thailand as the company moves production from Japan to
counter a strong yen.  Sony is basing its operating profit forecast of 180 billion
yen for the current fiscal year on an exchange rate of 90 yen
against the dollar. The company generates more than 70 percent
of revenue outside of Japan.  China Exports  The value of exports to China, Japan’s biggest market,
climbed 18.5 percent in August from a year earlier, compared
with 22.7 percent in July. Exports to the U.S. gained 8.8
percent, slowing from 25.9 percent in July as demand for
automobiles slipped for the first time since October 2009.
Shipments to Europe increased 13.7 percent.  “We had some temporary growth drivers that are now
fading,”  Jorgen Elmeskov , deputy chief economist for the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said
today in an interview in Tokyo, referring to the state of member
countries. Fiscal stimulus has “plateaued” and “we need to
establish a more durable growth dynamic,” he said.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  unveiled details of a 915 billion
yen stimulus package on Sept. 10, his first since taking office
in June. Japan’s central bank has also pledged to take
additional measures as needed to sustain the recovery.  Recent data point to a tempering rebound in the economy,
with growth last quarter slowing to a 1.5 percent annual pace,
compared with 5 percent in the first three months of the year.
The government revised its July industrial output figures to
show that production fell rather than gained.  “Japan will probably be able to avoid falling back into a
recession,” though its economic growth could pause, said
 Hiroshi Watanabe , a senior economist at the Daiwa Institute of
Research in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  