-- Facebook Founder Seeks Hot Girls, Dumps Harvard Buddy: Movies
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/facebook-s-nerdy-founder-seeks-hot-girls-dumps-harvard-buddy-rick-warner.html
Furious that his girlfriend just
dumped him,  Mark Zuckerberg  races to his Harvard dorm room and
trashes her on his blog. He then instantly creates a campus
database where guys can compare pictures of two female students
and choose which is “hotter” -- an idea that eventually morphs
into Facebook.  So that’s why Facebook was created: to get revenge and
stare at sexy girls.  Or maybe not. In “ The Social Network ,” a frenetically
entertaining film that re-enacts the birth of Zuckerberg’s
immensely popular website, screenwriter  Aaron Sorkin  and
director  David Fincher  tell the story from three different --
and often contradictory -- points of view.  The first comes from Zuckerberg (Jesse Eisenberg), the
brash computer genius who launched the website at Harvard in
2004 with  Eduardo Saverin  (Andrew Garfield) and two other
classmates.  Saverin offers another perspective, that of a scorned
friend who provided the company’s early financing and then was
squeezed out. Offering a third vantage point are the Winklevoss
twins (Armie Hammer and Josh Pence), Bunyonesque preppie Harvard
rowers who claim that Zuckerberg stole the Facebook idea from
them.  Brilliant Bully  Saverin and the Winklevoss brothers filed lawsuits against
Zuckerberg that resulted in settlements. The film uses those
legal proceedings -- Zuckerberg, Saverin and the twins are shown
in a conference room giving depositions in the cases -- to
reconstruct Facebook’s beginnings from their overlapping, often
undermining testimony. It can get confusing, but it effectively
shows how the truth can be elusive when so much is at stake.  Zuckerberg is reportedly angry over his portrayal in the
movie -- and it’s easy to understand why. Though none of the
major characters appears very likable, his image takes the
biggest hit. He comes across as an arrogant bully with horrible
social skills who is willing to sacrifice his few friends in the
rush to build his company.  Eisenberg, the curly haired actor who played angst-ridden
adolescents in “ The Squid and the Whale ” and
“Adventureland,” skillfully reveals the insecurity and
relentless drive that fueled Zuckerberg’s success. (In the
movie, he’s jealous of Saverin for getting into one of Harvard’s
exclusive social clubs.)  Timberlake’s Partier  Justin Timberlake  also delivers a strong performance as
Napster co-founder  Sean Parker , a hard-partier who became
Facebook’s first president after lining up financial support
from Silicon Valley venture capitalists.  “The Social Network” successfully combines Sorkin’s
trademark rapid-fire dialogue (“The West Wing”) with Fincher’s
bold visual style (“ Zodiac ,” “The Curious Case of Benjamin
Button”). The script is filled with clever putdowns and sharp
observations -- “Creation myths need a devil,” says one of
Zuckerberg’s attorneys -- but the film wouldn’t be as compelling
without Fincher’s inventive lighting, editing and camera angles.  For all his brusqueness, Zuckerberg isn’t the most
offensive character in the movie. That distinction belongs to
then-Harvard President  Larry Summers  (played by film and theater
producer Douglas Urbanski), who rudely dismisses the twins when
they visit his office to complain about Zuckerberg.  The White House just announced that Summers is leaving his
job as the president’s chief economic adviser to return to
Harvard. I doubt he’ll be teaching etiquette.  “The Social Network,” from Columbia Pictures, premiered
Sept. 24 at the New York Film Festival and opens Oct. 1 across
the U.S. Rating: ***1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 