-- FBI Employees Cheated on Exam Related to Domestic Probes, U.S. Report Says
-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2010-09-27T15:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/fbi-employees-cheated-on-exam-related-to-domestic-probes-u-s-report-says.html
A “significant number” of FBI
employees cheated on an exam related to domestic investigations,
according to the Justice Department’s inspector general.  Some consulted with others while taking the exam even
though that type of cooperation was forbidden, according to a
 report  released today. Others used or distributed answer sheets
or study guides that provided test answers, or exploited a
computer flaw that revealed answers, it said.  The inspector general began the review following
allegations that three top managers in the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation ’s  Washington Field Office  cheated. FBI officials
also expressed concern to the inspector general that more than
200 employees finished the exam in 20 minutes or less even
though it should have taken about 90 minutes to complete,
according to the report.  “A significant number of the FBI employees we interviewed
cheated on the test and did not comply with the test
conditions,” according to the report.  Almost all of those who cheated falsely answered a question
on the exam saying that they hadn’t consulted with others,
according to the report.  The test was based on guidelines, adopted in December 2008,
that FBI employees must follow when conducting domestic
investigations.  Open Book Test  FBI employees were given instructions saying the test was
“open book,” according to the report. The instructions said
employees couldn’t ask coworkers or anyone else for help while
taking the exam.  The inspector general’s findings were based on interviews
with employees in four FBI field offices.  In Washington, two special agents in charge took the exam
together in the same room, while discussing questions and
possible answers with a legal adviser, who also was present,
according to the report. A former assistant director in charge
was in the room at the same time and didn’t take the exam that
day. The assistant director wrote down the answers and used them
to complete the exam another day, according to the report.  The majority of FBI employees successfully completed the
test and followed the directions, said FBI Director  Robert Mueller  in a  statement .  “While the Office of Inspector General has identified a
number of factors that contributed to problems with the test-
taking, nothing excuses the conduct of those who chose not to
comply when instructions were clear,” Mueller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  