-- FDIC to Explain How It Will Wield `Too Big to Fail' Power on Wall Street
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-09-27T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/fdic-to-explain-how-it-will-wield-too-big-to-fail-power-on-wall-street.html
The U.S. overhaul of Wall Street
gave regulators a power they had called for since the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. : the authority to shut too-big-
to-fail firms. Now the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. has to
figure out how to use it.  The FDIC, assigned the task of determining how to unwind
systemically important, failing firms while avoiding the market
turmoil that followed Lehman, will begin explaining plans for
the new resolution authority at a meeting in Washington today.  The FDIC, which has protected customer deposits as receiver
for failed banks since the 1930s, finds itself in new territory
by dealing with the sprawling firms populating  Wall Street . The
Dodd-Frank law lets the FDIC determine which parts of a failing
firm should be kept on life support to stabilize the system and
maintain the value of the business line for future sale. It also
requires the agency to dismantle and sell off firms it takes
over -- a measure designed to eliminate the uncertainty and ad
hoc bailouts that came to define the 2008 crisis.  With the new authority, the FDIC “moves into something
like Lehman that is a big complicated beast with a lot of arms
and legs and heads,” said Mark McDermott, a partner at  Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom  in New York.  Lehman, facing a liquidity crisis amid losses tied to
subprime mortgage securities, filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 15,
2008, after regulators tried to broker an industry-funded
solution. The collapse roiled markets as firms lost confidence
in counterparties and investors lost faith in regulators’
ability to safeguard their stakes, prompting the government to
approve a $700 bailout for financial companies.  ‘System Havoc’  If the new powers had been in place in 2008, the FDIC could
have moved the Lehman business lines that were still valuable,
such as the broker-dealer unit eventually purchased by  Barclays
Plc , into a separate entity that would have served as a bridge
until a buyer was found.  “The inability to close the largest financial companies
without creating systemic havoc using the existing tools was
underscored over and over in 2008,” said  Michael Krimminger , an
FDIC special adviser for policy, in a telephone interview.  The FDIC’s authority to choose which creditors would become
part of a bridge entity has raised concern among banking
officials such as  Hamid Biglari , a vice chairman of  Citigroup
Inc. ’s Citicorp unit.  “The lack of certainty with creditors is going to result
in a higher cost of funding for U.S. financial institutions,”
Biglari told regulators and industry executives at an FDIC
roundtable in August, according to a transcript of the meeting.  Priority System  FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair , 56, said the agency has
established a clearly defined creditor priority system through
its resolutions of depository institutions. The agency will soon
propose a rule that would preclude bondholders and subordinated
debt holders from being brought into bridge entities, according
to an FDIC official who spoke on condition of anonymity because
the new rule isn’t public.  The August roundtable was the first public airing of
discussions that have been happening at the FDIC for months.
FDIC examiners are working with companies likely to be subject
to the resolution authority, the agency official said.  Banks have appointed officials to lead compliance efforts,
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s Melissa Moore, chief executive
officer of the bank’s treasury services, and Citigroup executive
 Zion Shohet .  Under Dodd-Frank, banks are required to submit resolution
plans, or “living wills.” Banks will use the plans to
determine how “we efficiently turn the keys over” to federal
regulators in a financial emergency, said  Art Certosimo , a
senior executive vice president at Bank of New York Mellon.  Credit Markets  Even as banks plan for the new rules, there’s evidence that
the financial industry may not see Dodd-Frank as signaling the
end for too-big-to-fail.  McGraw-Hill Cos.’ Standard & Poor’s unit has factored U.S.
support for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , Citigroup and Morgan
Stanley into credit ratings for the New York-based firms since
2007. Dodd-Frank hasn’t changed that, S&P said in an August
report.  If a big bank gets in trouble, “there are many in the
market that say, ‘Well, they can’t just walk away,’”  Craig Parmalee , an S&P credit analyst, said in a telephone interview.  Krimminger, who is leading the FDIC’s implementation
effort, said it’s only a matter of time before banks grasp the
government’s intent.  “Through our actions, the rulemakings and the law itself,
at some point they are going to realize there really isn’t any
other option but to close and liquidate any failed financial
company, ” Krimminger said.  One question that won’t be answered in the rulemakings is
whether the agency will ever need to use its new power. With the
crisis passed and the biggest firms back on steadier ground,
some aren’t sure.  “How many times in the history of our nation has the
government ever done that?” McDermott said, referring to the
2008 bailouts. “One narrow period in our country’s history.
Will it ever need to do it again? I’m skeptical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  