-- FDIC Delays Resolution Rule, Approves Risk Measure
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2010-09-27T19:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/fdic-to-consider-resolution-rules-securitizations-correct-.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
proposed a measure to guide its liquidation powers under the
Dodd-Frank law and approved a rule giving banks three months to
meet new standards in the $4.2 trillion securitization market.  The FDIC board, meeting in Washington today, was briefed by
staff members on an interim rule that outlines how the new
resolution authority would treat creditors in a receivership and
codify treatment of contingent claims. The board won’t vote on
the proposal until it is reviewed by the council of regulators
established under the financial-rules overhaul enacted in July.  “With the U.S. financial system now stable and healing, it
is important to move ahead with rules to make clear how the
orderly liquidation process would be implemented to restore
greater market discipline and promote clear understanding among
shareholders and unsecured creditors that they, not taxpayers,
are at risk,” FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  said at the meeting.  The Dodd-Frank law gave the FDIC authority to wind down
failing systemically important firms in response to the 2008
credit crisis, when the bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  destabilized markets and forced the U.S. to bail out
companies including American International Group Inc.  At an FDIC forum on the resolution authority last month,
executives from lenders including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank
of America Corp. raised questions about the agency’s plans for
creditor protection and maintaining financial-system integrity
in the event of a collapse requiring a wind-down.  Council of Regulators  The agency’s board, which had been scheduled to vote on the
interim rule today, instead received the staff briefing. The new
Financial Stability Oversight Council will hold its first
meeting on Oct. 1. The resolution rule isn’t yet on the
council’s discussion agenda, according to an FDIC official who
spoke on condition that he not be identified.  Bair, in prepared remarks, said the agency will ask for a
notational vote on the interim rule next week.  The FDIC will include a provision precluding shareholders,
long-term bondholders and subordinated debt holders from being
brought into bridge entities, according to the agency official.  The board plans to vote on the interim rule in the future,
though a specific date hasn’t been set, the agency official
said. A final rule is expected in the first quarter of next
year, said the official who declined to be identified because
the plans aren’t public.  The interim rule “is really the beginning of a significant
and extensive process bringing about the implementation of these
provisions,” said  Martin Gruenberg , the FDIC’s vice chairman.  Risk Retention  The FDIC also approved a proposal today that would require
lenders to keep 5 percent of the credit risk for securitized
debt if they want protection from new accounting rules governing
failed-bank assets.  The proposal would require additional disclosures by
sellers, including the structure of the bond and the credit and
payment performance of its loans. It also would seek disclosure
of compensation paid for securitizations. The new rules, which
were scheduled to apply starting on Oct. 1, will be implemented
on Jan. 1, 2011.  The FDIC’s board voted 4-1 to approve the measure, with
acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  in opposition.  Safe Harbor  Financial Accounting Standards Board rules completed last
year require banks to bring most securitizations onto their
balance sheets. The FDIC’s rule will apply to securitizations of
an entity in receivership or conservatorship after a collapse.
The so-called safe-harbor protection makes bonds more attractive
to investors.  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed by President  Barack Obama  in
July, includes a provision that requires most lenders to hold at
least a 5 percent stake in debt they package or sell.  The law will affect credit-card debt, auto loans, mortgages
and other securitized debt. Lawmakers said the measure is
designed to align debt issuers’ interests with those of the
investors who buy their financial products.  The Securities and Exchange Commission in April approved a
proposal to require financial firms seeking to avoid regulatory
hurdles when selling bonds to hold 5 percent of each class of an
asset-backed security.  “The FDIC’s action today will seriously harm a bank’s
ability to sponsor a new securitization,”  Tom Deutsch ,
executive director of the American Securitization Forum, said in
a statement. “This will clearly hurt liquidity but will also
mean that future securitizations may take place outside of a
regulated structure, posing new risks to the system.”  Market Value  In response to concerns raised during the comment period,
the FDIC included a provision that would require the agency to
pay out the market value of a securitized obligation if it
decides to break the contract during receivership. Damages paid
would equal the par value of the obligations on the date of the
receivership, plus interest.  The FDIC also requires that securitization originators
disclose all fees that must be paid to credit raters over a
five-year period, with no more than 60 percent of the total paid
at closing.  The board included a provision dictating that any risk-
retention changes agreed to through joint agency regulations
under Dodd-Frank take the place of the overlapping provisions in
the final FDIC rule.  Board members voted unanimously to approve a rule granting
insurance coverage for deposit-taking institutions’ non-interest
bearing transaction accounts. The rule is similar to the
financial crisis-era Transaction Account Guaranty Program, which
is scheduled to terminate at the end of the year.  Congressional negotiators included provisions to extend the
TAG program in the Dodd-Frank law. The new rule, which will
replace the original program that expires on Dec. 31, will apply
to all depository institutions and won’t apply to low-interest
accounts or interest on lawyer trust accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Mattingly  in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  