-- Fed Model for Treasuries Shows Diminishing Returns
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-09-27T14:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/fed-relative-value-model-for-treasuries-showing-diminishing-market-returns.html
This year’s rally in Treasuries has
pushed yields so low that a Federal Reserve  measure  of risk
shows U.S. government securities are too expensive.  The financial model created by economists at the central
bank that includes expectations for interest rates, growth and
inflation shows Treasuries are the most overvalued since the
financial crisis in December 2008, just before 10-year note
yields almost doubled in the following six months. Investors who
held  10-year notes  through that period lost 13 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  While Treasuries have returned 8.2 percent this year on
average, they are down 0.5 percent this month even though Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and fellow policy makers hinted last
week they are willing to embark on another round of so-called
quantitative easing asset purchases to spur growth and support
prices. Investors are concerned yields can’t fall much further
without another recession.  “It’s very hard to justify where yields are now, unless we
are indeed on the verge of something really awful,” said  Johan Jooste , a strategist at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
Global Wealth Management unit in London where he helps invest
about $1.4 trillion. “We are aware that there is a short-term
factor, such as possibility that the Fed might buy bonds. But
longer term, you have to ask yourself what you get paid if you
hold government bonds.”  Falling Yields  The benchmark 10-year note yield fell 14 basis points last
week, or 0.14 percentage point, to 2.61 percent, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The yield on the 2.625 percent note due
August 2020 fell 7 basis points to 2.54 percent at 10:15 a.m. in
New York. The two-year yield was little changed at 0.43 percent.  The Treasury plans to sell $36 billion of two-year debt
today, the first of three sales this week. It’s also scheduled
to auction $35 billion of five-year notes tomorrow and $29
billion in seven-year securities the following day.  The difference between short- and long-term yields signals
less than a 20 percent chance of the economy slipping into
another recession, according to research from economists the
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.  Projections of the three-month Treasury bill to 10-year
note curve, using past values of the spread and gross domestic
product growth, suggest the economy will expand about 1 percent,
 Joseph Haubrich , head of banking and financial institutions
research at the Cleveland Fed, and  Timothy Bianco , a researcher,
wrote in a report last week.  ‘Bottom End’  “There might be room for Treasury yields to move lower in
the near term, but our view is that valuations are moving
towards the bottom end of what is likely,” said  John Stopford ,
head of fixed income in London at Investec Asset Management,
which invests $65 billion. “Growth is in the process of slowing
down, but the bond market is pricing in a 50 or 60 percent
chance of a double-dip and deflation. That’s far too high.”  Investec had bought put options on U.S. interest-rate
futures, Stopford said. A put option is the right to sell a
security at a specific time and price.  The model created by Fed economists Don Kim and  Jonathan Wright  in 2005 uses forward expectations for the federal funds
rate, the 10-year yield, short-term interest rates, inflation
and real economic growth rate to calculate the risk of holding
longer-duration securities. It is designed to separate basic
money-market interest returns from additional yield for longer-
term investment. Bernanke cited the model in a 2006 speech in
New York as a useful guide in setting monetary policy.  ‘Extremely Rare’  Zach Pandl , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., has used
the model and made changes for the firm to figure out if the
rally in Treasuries had run its course.  After hitting a low in December 2008, at the height of the
financial crisis following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., Nomura’s version rose from negative numbers as
speculation about a market collapse faded.  Yields  on 10-year
notes then climbed from a record low of 2.035 percent on Dec.
18, 2008 to an eight-month high of 4 percent on June 11, 2009.
The gauge rose to about 100 basis points before yields reached
their highs and has since fallen to about zero, Pandl said.  “It’s the first time we’ve seen a negative term premium
since the early part of 2009, post-Lehman bankruptcy,” he said.
“Other than that time, it was extremely rare.”  Ending Bullish Call  The model recorded a reading of negative 0.18 percent for
10-year debt on Sept. 22, a day after the Fed indicated it may
implement additional quantitative easing. It was the lowest on
an intraday basis since January 2009.  The drop was one reason Nomura bond strategists changed
their forecast on Treasury yields to “neutral,” ending a six-
month bullish call.  “Yields have gone too low,” said  George Goncalves , head
of interest-rate strategy at Nomura, one of the 18 primary
dealers of U.S. government securities that trade directly with
the Fed. “Incremental easing will not push yields that much
lower. It will just keep them at a lower range.”  In March the Fed completed a program of buying $1.25
trillion of agency mortgage-backed securities and about $175
billion of agency debt. The Fed was the biggest buyer of
Treasuries when it purchased $300 billion of U.S. debt in 2009.  The first round of quantitative easing lowered the 10-year
yield between 50 and 60 basis points since November 2008, said
 Joseph Gagnon , a former Fed official who is a senior fellow at
the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington. He estimated a second round would “likely be at
least $1 trillion,” and have a smaller market reaction.  ‘Go Back Up’  “If they do $1 trillion, the 10-year yield could move 10
to 20 basis points on top of what’s already been done,” Gagnon
said. “If they don’t do it, yields will go back up.”  The Federal Open Market Committee’s Sept. 21 statement said
it “will continue to monitor the economic outlook and financial
developments and is prepared to provide additional accommodation
if needed to support the economic recovery.”  The Fed’s statement indicates it’s focused on inflation
that’s below the preferred long-term range as the main reason to
provide additional stimulus. Consumer prices excluding food and
fuel costs rose 0.9 percent in August from a year earlier,
matching the smallest increase since the 1960s.  The Fed retained its policy, begun last month, of
reinvesting proceeds from mortgage debt repayments into long-
term Treasuries. It has bought $34 billion since it began the
program on Aug. 17. Policy makers also kept the benchmark
federal funds rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent, where
it’s been since December 2008, and reiterated the rate will stay
“exceptionally low” for an “extended period.”  “Quantitative easing on the basis of past records caused a
large decline in yields,” said Wright, co-author of the 2005
Fed paper and a professor at Johns Hopkins University in
Baltimore. “If QE is used on a large scale, yields will
probably drop even further, and the term premium will decline.
If they are just keeping options open, then the term premium
will move back up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  