-- Feinberg to Meet U.S. Senator Carper as Complaints Mount Over BP Claims
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2010-09-28T04:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/feinberg-s-claims-process-for-bp-oil-spill-victims-draws-lawmaker-scrutiny.html
Kenneth Feinberg , in charge of
paying victims of  BP Plc ’s oil spill, will meet Senator  Tom Carper  this week and may face a congressional hearing as the
claims process draws criticism from residents and policy makers.  The  Gulf Coast Claims Facility  that Feinberg runs has been
faulted for the slow pace of payments and size of the checks.
Carper said yesterday he will speak to Feinberg, seeking
assurance compensation will be quick and fair. Senator  Patrick Leahy , chairman of the Judiciary Committee, may hold hearings if
the process “does not improve,” Erica Chabot, a committee
spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Feinberg, who took over on Aug. 23, pledged to be faster
and more generous than BP in writing checks to individuals and
businesses hurt by the largest U.S. spill. He has failed to meet
a 48-hour goal to write individual checks, drawing criticism
after winning praise for accepting the job paying claims from
the $20 billion fund set up by BP.  “I look forward to speaking with Mr. Feinberg about the
ongoing claims process and how he is ensuring that payments are
made quickly, fairly, and don’t end up leaving the federal
government’s  Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund  vulnerable,” Carper
said in an e-mail statement.  Feinberg testified before four congressional panels,
including  Carper’s Homeland Security and Government Affairs
subcommittee  on July 22, after agreeing to manage the claims
facility.  Carper, a Delaware Democrat, said Feinberg, a Washington
lawyer who handled the Sept. 11 claims fund, is among the
nation’s “great arbiters” and qualified to run the new claims
process.  Eligibility Decisions  Carper is focusing on how Feinberg determines eligibility
for payments. Individuals and businesses rejected by Feinberg
remain eligible to seek reimbursement from a separate government
trust fund set up for oil spills.  Thomas Perrelli , the associate U.S. attorney general who
led negotiations with BP to set up the claims facility fund,
said on Sept. 17 that the present pace of payments is
“unacceptable.”  The claims facility “needs to devote whatever additional
resources -- or make whatever administrative changes -- are
necessary in order to speed up this process,” Perrelli wrote to
Feinberg.  Responding to Perrelli, Feinberg said claims will be
grouped by industry “so they are easier to compare for
payment.”  “We have heard and we understand the criticisms, and we
are responding,” he said. “We will be sending out more
generous checks more quickly.”  Realtors, Restaurants  Feinberg has been flexible in resolving complaints since
taking over from BP. He set aside $60 million for Gulf Coast
Realtor groups after agents and brokers complained of lost
commissions and sales.  Feinberg told the Florida Restaurant and Lodging
Association on Sept. 14 that he may ease a requirement that tied
eligibility for payments to coastal proximity. Representative
 Kathy Castor , a Florida Democrat, called the announcement a
positive sign.  The claims facility has received more than 75,000 claims,
and paid more than 35,000. An estimated 27,000 claims required
additional documentation as of yesterday, according to the most
recent update. Feinberg rejected about 640 claims and 1,400 have
been deemed ineligible, according to the facility.  Castor said her constituents worry that Feinberg will
reject requests from businesses claiming losses as vacationers
stayed away even though oil never washed ashore.  “I’m going to press him to visit this area,” Castor said
in a telephone interview. “A lot of business owners here are
just trying to make it through another day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 