-- Fernandez Makes Peso the Only Loser in Emerging Markets: Argentina Credit
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2010-09-27T23:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/fernandez-buys-dollars-in-draconian-bid-to-weaken-peso-argentina-credit.html
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s  efforts to weaken the peso are working,
while policy makers in emerging markets from Brazil to South
Africa fail to curb currency rallies.  The peso has declined 0.7 percent in the past three months
against the dollar, the only retreat among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. South Africa’s rand gained 7.9
percent and Brazil’s real rose 4.1 percent even as their central
banks stepped up dollar purchases to stem the appreciation.  Argentine central bank President  Mercedes Marco  del Pont
said Sept. 2 that the institution seeks to maintain a
“competitive” exchange rate after dollar inflows climbed to a
two-year high of $392 million in the second quarter, the second
time since 2008 that flows were positive. The bank, which
doesn’t target a benchmark lending rate, buys dollars in the
local foreign exchange market and limits appreciation by
requiring investors deposit 30 percent of the funds brought into
the country for one year.  Argentina  is “definitely bucking the trend because they’re
able to intervene aggressively,” said Aryam Vazquez, an
economist with Wells Fargo & Co. in  New York . “It’s a little
bit more challenging for a country like Brazil, for example,
which attracts a heavy amount of capital.”  Tapping Reserves  The dollar inflows followed Fernandez’s completion of a
$12.9 billion defaulted debt swap in June and after grain
exporters began selling a record 55 million metric ton soybean
harvest.  Argentina’s peso dropped 0.2 percent on Sept. 24, the most
in five weeks, to 3.9601 per dollar, extending its decline this
year to 4.1 percent. The currency touched 3.9602 per dollar, the
weakest level since its inception in 1992.  The currency was little changed today at 3.9598 per dollar.  The central bank said in its daily e-mail statement that it
last bought dollars on Sept. 23, when  reserves  reached a record
$51.3 billion.  Fernandez last week nominated Marco del Pont, who backed
the government’s use of $6.6 billion in international reserves
to pay debt this year, to remain in her post after it was set to
expire Sept. 23. Economy  Minister   Amado Boudou  presented
lawmakers with a plan on Sept. 16 to tap another $7.5 billion in
reserves to make debt payments next year.  ‘No Easy’ Solution  Paying debt with reserves fuels  inflation  by freeing up
budget money for other uses, said  Claudio Loser , a former
International Monetary Fund official, in a Sept. 22 interview.
Consumer prices will rise 25 percent this year, more than double
the official rate of 11.1 percent and the most in the world
after Venezuela, former central bank President  Alfonso Prat-Gay 
estimated in a Sept. 16 interview.  Brazil’s increased dollar purchases have failed to halt the
real’s six-week advance, while South Africa has “no easy”
solution to the rand’s gain, the nation’s central bank chief
said Sept. 22.  Brazilian central bank President Henrique Meirelles stepped
up dollar purchases to the highest in almost a year this month
to temper  gains  in the real. The central bank bought $5.9
billion in the first 12 business days of September, Altamir
Lopes, head of the bank’s economic department, said Sept. 21.
The purchases are the biggest for the period since October 2009,
when policy makers bought $6.3 billion.  South Africa faces “hugely costly” options to stem the
rand’s gain as its 36 percent rally against the dollar since the
end of 2008 curbs exports,  Central Bank  Governor  Gill Marcus 
said Sept. 22.  Swiss Franc  Central banks in developed nations are also struggling as
their currencies strengthen against the dollar. The Swiss
National Bank lost 14 billion francs ($13 billion) in the first
half of the year in currency intervention to stem the franc’s
rally. The franc has climbed 9.6 percent against the dollar in
the second half and jumped to a record 97.8 centimes per dollar
on Sept. 24.  The yen has recouped half its losses since Sept. 15, when
Japan sold it for the first time since 2004 after the yen jumped
to a 15-year high. The yen has climbed 10 percent against the
dollar this year, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Argentina’s peso has weakened 28 percent since Fernandez’s
husband and  predecessor , Nestor Kirchner, began his four-year
term in May 2003, as each sought a weaker currency to bolster
domestic industries and export revenue. In addition to requiring
investors to deposit cash at the central bank, the government
has also limited gains by maintaining caps on utility prices and
taking over companies and private pension funds.  Lagging Investment  Foreign direct investment in Argentina totaled $4.9 billion
in 2009, compared with $26 billion in Brazil and $17 billion in
Chile, according to the United Nations Economic Commission for
Latin America. Brazil is the largest economy in South America
followed by Argentina, Venezuela, Colombia and Chile, according
to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  Argentina has been “rational” in its use of reserves to
make debt payments this year and won’t sell bonds overseas at 8
percent or above, Fernandez said Sept. 24.  “Today rates are in the single digits, but we aren’t
interested in taking on debt that could be at 8 or 8.75
percent,” Fernandez told reporters in New York.  Credit-Default Swaps  An  Argentina  central bank official in Buenos Aires declined
to comment and asked not to be identified by name in accordance
with official policy.  Buenos Aires province sold $550 million of five-year notes
today, according to Bloomberg data. The province sold the 11.75
percent notes to yield 12 percent. Bank of America Corp. and
Deutsche Bank AG managed the sale.  Shareholders of Aeropuertos Argentinas 2000 SA, the
country’s main airport operator, earlier this month approved
plans to sell as much as $300 million in bonds.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to Argentine debt fell
16 basis points to 746 today. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped 2 basis points today, or 0.02
percentage point, to 678, according to JPMorgan.  Warrants linked to growth in South America’s second-biggest
economy rose 0.17 cent to 11.85 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Mild’ Controls  Countries such as Brazil and  Peru , which have “imposed
some mild capital controls on short-term inflows,” are less
likely to turn to stronger limits, said Daniel Volberg, an
economist with Morgan Stanley in New York.  Peruvian policy makers have raised reserve requirements
four times since June as they seek to avert inflationary
pressures and prevent foreign inflows from destabilizing the
local currency.  “If they were to follow the footsteps of Argentina, they’d
have to impose much more Draconian capital controls,” Volberg
said in a Sept. 24  telephone interview . “That would sort of
prejudice FDI inflow and longer-term capital inflow, which would
be sort of antithetical to the fundamental economic policy in
those countries.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  