-- Ford May Cut Lineup to as Few as 20 Models, CEO Says
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-09-27T16:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/ford-plans-to-cut-product-lineup-to-as-few-as-20-models-ceo-mulally-says.html
Ford Motor Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  said the second-biggest U.S. carmaker may
reduce its product lineup to as few as 20 models.  “There will be less than 30, on our way to 20 to 25,”
Mulally said in response to questions on the future lineup of
“nameplates” or models after addressing the Confederation of
British Industry in London today. “Fewer brands means you can
put more focus into improving the quality of engineering.”  Ford had 97 models on offer when Mulally became CEO of the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company in 2006. The lineup has since
been reduced by terminating some products and selling luxury
brands Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Aston Martin.  “It was absolutely clear that we had to simplify Ford
dramatically,” said the CEO, who is in Europe prior to visiting
the Paris Motor Show later this week.  Ford has also simplified component specifications for each
product, so that the Fiesta model, which has about 10 variants
worldwide, now has about 65 percent of its parts as standard.  “It helps all of our distribution, Ford store owners,
suppliers, employees and consumers to know exactly what they’re
getting,” Mulally said.  As part of his push to cut the number of brands and models,
Mulally has dismantled the luxury Premier Automotive Group
formed by CEO  Jacques Nasser  in 1999 and embraced by  Bill Ford 
after he took over the top post.  Volvo Completion  Mulally, who joined Ford from planemaker Boeing Co.,
completed the sale of Sweden’s Volvo Cars to Zhejiang Geely
Holding Group Co. of China for $1.3 billion last month, having
sold the Jaguar Land Rover unit to Mumbai-based Tata Motors Ltd.
in 2008 and disposed of Aston Martin a year earlier.  Ford is also discontinuing the mid-level Mercury line in
North America and intends to put more resources into its upscale
Lincoln brand.  The CEO said Ford’s sales prospects depend largely on
economic recovery following the termination of government cash-
for-clunkers programs that spurred demand last year.  “The key thing now is to keep the economy going,” said
Mulally, who turned 65 last month. “All the fundamentals say
that we are moving in the right direction.”  Prospects for expansion are bolstered by the Asian market,
which is “just a phenomenal growth engine right now,” he said.  Ford traded down 2 cents, or 0.2 percent, at $12.54 as of
12:18 p.m. in New York, paring this year’s  gain  to 25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Rothwell  in London at +44-20-7673-2365 or
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ; 