-- Foreclosure Flaws May Delay Recovery by Slowing Home-Price Fall
-- B y   B o b   I v r y ,   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-09-27T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/foreclosure-flaws-may-delay-u-s-recovery-by-slowing-drop-in-home-prices.html
Howard Cohen hasn’t paid the loan
on his Tukwila, Washington, home in a year, and when he heard
that Ally Financial Inc.’s GMAC Mortgage unit was suspending
foreclosure evictions in 23 states, it gave him hope.  “Maybe I’ll stay in my house, too,” said Cohen, a 57-
year-old commercial-loan broker.  An employee of Ally’s GMAC unit said in a December 2009
deposition that he signed thousands of foreclosure documents
without verifying their accuracy. Attorneys general in Iowa,
Illinois and  Texas  are investigating.  If uncovering such deficiencies halts thousands of pending
foreclosures or renders void those that have already taken
place, including repossessions of homes that have been resold,
it could snarl courts for years and further postpone a recovery
that can’t happen until real estate prices find a bottom, said
Stuart Saft, a partner at New York-based Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP.
Until home values start to rise, buyers will stay away, he said.  “You can’t get the economy moving until this whole
situation gets straightened out,” Saft said. “Until we find
the actual level of proper pricing, housing problems will
persist. Dragging out foreclosures doesn’t help.”  No one can say how widespread the practice has been --  Bank
of America Corp ., Cohen’s mortgage servicer, hasn’t reported any
irregularities -- yet “the suspicion is that there might have
been shortcuts taken by every mortgage servicer who had
extraordinary numbers of foreclosure documents to go through,”
said  Rick Sharga , senior vice president at RealtyTrac Inc., a
housing data provider in Irvine, California. Dan B. Frahm, a
Bank of America spokesman, declined to comment.  Servicer Squeeze  A  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co . executive also said she signed
thousands of foreclosure documents on the bank’s behalf without
personally checking loan records, according to a deposition she
made in a court case in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , in May.  Thomas Kelly , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.  Mortgage servicers collect payments from borrowers and
handle foreclosures. Adding staff, as GMAC says it’s doing, will
raise their costs, and any slowing of the legal process would
further pinch them because they’re required to pay property
taxes and insurance up front when borrowers stop paying, as well
as maintenance costs on uninhabited homes that have been seized.
The ultimate cost of the delays may also add to the losses for
mortgage-bond investors and companies such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the government-supported mortgage-financing firms.  Foreclosure Volume  Servicers are unprepared for the volume of foreclosures,
said Christine Clifford, vice president of Access Mortgage
Research & Consulting Inc. in Columbia,  Maryland , and a 27-year
veteran of the business. In August, lenders took possession of a
record 95,364 homes and issued foreclosure filings to 338,836
homeowners, or one out of every 381 U.S. households, according
to RealtyTrac. About 2 million houses will be seized by lenders
through 2011, according to  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania .  GMAC is the fifth-largest U.S. mortgage servicer, with 4.7
percent of the market, according to National Mortgage News, an
industry newsletter based in New York. The top four servicers --
Bank of America,  Wells Fargo &amp; Co ., JPMorgan and  Citigroup Inc .
-- have a combined 71 percent share of the market.  “Preserving the integrity of the foreclosure process is of
the utmost importance,” GMAC said in a Sept. 24 statement.
“Regrettably, a procedural error was found to have occurred in
certain affidavits required in certain states. The error is not
related to the accuracy of the underlying transaction or the
ultimate decisions to have exercised the foreclosure
proceedings.”  ‘Direct Personal Knowledge’  The “error” was the failure to sign the documents in the
presence of a notary public or signing them without “direct
personal knowledge of all the information,” GMAC said.  The U.S. government, which has been pressing lenders to
reduce foreclosures as evictions hit record levels, owns 56
percent of Detroit-based Ally. The company, formerly known as
GMAC Inc., has benefited from more than $17 billion of bailouts.
Cerberus Capital Management LP, a New York-based buyout firm,
holds about 15 percent of Ally.  The troubles started with an increase in originations in
the 2000s, especially of riskier loans, as  Wall Street  devised
ways to bundle mortgages into securities it sold to investors
around the world. From 2002 to 2007, $18.2 trillion worth of
mortgages were originated compared with $7.7 trillion in the
previous six years, according to data compiled by Inside
Mortgage Finance, an industry  newsletter  in Bethesda, Maryland.  Postponing Price Declines  Subprime mortgages, given to borrowers with bad or
incomplete credit history, accounted for $2.5 trillion of the
loans in the latter part of the decade compared with $840
billion from 1996 to 2001, Inside Mortgage Finance said. Those
borrowers have defaulted at almost four times the rate as
homeowners with prime loans.  It would take almost a year to sell all the homes already on
the market, according to the Chicago-based National Association
of Realtors. Another three-and-a-half-years’ supply of homes
will be up for sale at distressed prices in the next three years
as a result of foreclosures, according to RealtyTrac.  If legal delays keep homes off the market,  home prices  will
stay higher in the next two years than they would had
foreclosures proceeded, said Zandi of Moody’s Analytics. That
would mean postponing the end of the price decline, he said.  Even without delays, home values may have another three
years to go before bouncing back up, according to Moody’s
Analytics. That’s after a 28 percent decline nationally since
2006, according to the S&P Case-Shiller Home Price Index.  More Litigation  Two senior executives at mortgage servicers said their
companies were bracing for more legal action contesting
foreclosures because of the press attention. The executives
requested anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak.  “I anticipate some people I know, possibly myself, are
going to be involved in reopening these cases to get money for
people who can’t get their houses back,” said Richard J.
Burton, a Miami attorney who started the Foreclosure Project
LLC, which provides legal representation to homeowners facing
foreclosure.  Burton said he expects that a class-action suit will be
filed against GMAC and other lenders seeking damages and to stop
foreclosures. GMAC hasn’t stopped foreclosures, only evictions
related to them.  “Anybody who’s foreclosing in a judicial state is going to
be dotting their i’s and crossing their t’s, and then checking,
double-checking, and triple-checking everything,” Glenn Schultz, head of residential-mortgage bond research at Wells
Fargo’s securities unit, said in a telephone interview. In the
so-called judicial states, lenders must appear before a judge,
who approves foreclosures.  ‘Inbox Filled Up’  With mortgage bonds, servicers would continue advancing
interest and principal payments to investors, first helping
junior-ranked investors and then hurting holders of senior bonds
as the servicers recoup those funds out of foreclosure proceeds.  Still, while Schultz says his “inbox filled up
immediately” after Ally made the announcement last week that it
was suspending evictions, “foreclosure timelines have already
gotten so long, I’m not sure how much of an overall impact this
is going to have as far as bondholders are concerned,” he said.
At the same time, “there’s a new thing on the horizon to watch:
Increased judicial activism.”  In judicial states, the average time between borrowers
falling behind and sales of their properties has climbed to
almost 25 months from less than 18 months at the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Austin, Texas-based Amherst
Securities Group.  The timeline grew in other states to 19 months, from 14
months, the data show.  Lack of Staffing  The increasing time between default and foreclosure may
embolden more homeowners to stop paying their bills, said
Cameron Findlay, chief economist at LendingTree.com in Irvine,  California . Overwhelmed lenders are likely to address the worst
cases first, leaving many delinquent borrowers in their homes
for longer periods of time, he said.  One issue is the lack of staffing all along the mortgage
pipeline, said Lucy Griffin, president of Compliance Resources
Inc. in Reston,  Virginia , which does legal-compliance training
for mortgage lenders.  “I see this as a symptom of the emphasis on getting the
product in the books, getting the money up front and not having
the personnel to support the product,” Griffin said. “They
don’t have the necessary personnel.”  Cohen, the homeowner who is 12 months behind on his
mortgage payments, said he’s been trying to negotiate a loan
modification. He anticipates difficulties down the road.  “Nobody can tell me who owns my mortgage,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Ivry in  New York  at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon L. Lynch at +1-212-617-4993 or
 sllynch@bloomberg.net  