-- Four Surging Stocks That Remain Reasonably Priced: John Dorfman
-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 2010-09-27T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/four-surging-stocks-remain-reasonably-priced-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
A recent surge has carried stocks
from losses to gains. Investors may not be smiling, but at least
they’re frowning less. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  is up 9
percent so far this month, and for the year it’s gained 3
percent. In the past 30 days, about 20 percent of U.S. stocks
have risen 10 percent or more.  Few of September’s stars still strike me as bargains. Here
are a few that do.  The largest one is  UnitedHealth Group Inc.  with a market
value of about $40 billion. Based in Minnetonka, Minnesota,
UnitedHealth runs what it calls organized health systems. That
includes health maintenance organizations, preferred provider
organizations, traditional health insurance, dental insurance,
and other plans.  I was surprised when I looked at a chart of UnitedHealth’s
sales and earnings growth since 2003: It was stronger than I had
expected.  Revenue  climbed to $87 billion last year from $37
billion five years earlier.  Granted, much of the increase came through  acquisitions .
Still, I’m impressed with a five-year earnings growth rate of 7
percent during a time when many businesses were thrown into
reverse by the longest recession since the Great Depression.  Critics might say that some of the company’s sales resulted
from questionable tactics. This month the California Department
of Insurance, expanding on a previous complaint, said
UnitedHealth’s PacifiCare Life and Health Insurance unit has
committed almost 1 million violations. If the company is found
guilty of each violation and fined the maximum amount, it could
face penalties of as much as $9.9 billion.  Alleged Violations  The allegations include failing to tell health providers
they could appeal denied claims, wrongfully denying claims,
taking too long to acknowledge claims, paying incorrect amounts
and taking too much time to process claim appeals.  I don’t believe that these accusations are a fair
representation of the business practices of UnitedHealth Group
as a whole. And I’m confident that any fine the company ends up
paying will be a lot less than $9.9 billion.  UnitedHealth Group stock looks quite attractive to me at 10
times earnings and less than 0.5 times revenue.  Corn Products International Inc.  also managed to stay on
its feet through the recession. Its five-year earnings growth
rate is 7 percent and this year analysts expect it to have its
second-best year ever, earning $2.60 a share.  You might expect a company based in Westchester, Illinois,
to be provincial, but Corn Products gets almost 70 percent of
its revenue from outside the U.S.  The stock is up about 30 percent this year and sells for 14
times earnings.  Raising Expectations  Macy’s Inc. , the second-largest U.S. department-store
chain, has gained about 17 percent in September and is up about
36 percent this year. Its advance defies the conventional wisdom
that most retailers can’t do well until more people find jobs.  Unemployment  continues to hovers at 9.6 percent. Yet U.S.
 retail sales  edged up in August, and Macy’s raised its profit
guidance for the second time in four months.  The Cincinnati-based company expects to earn $1.89 a share
in its current fiscal year. Its best year was 2006, when it had
a profit of $3.24 a share while 2009 was its low point, with a
loss of $11.40 a share.  I think the stock will continue to surprise people
pleasantly in the next few months. But investors should keep an
eye on the debt level, which was an uncomfortable 166 percent of
equity as of June 30.  Speculative Pick  For my final and perhaps most speculative choice, I
recommend  Dorman Products Inc. , a maker of replacement auto
parts, located in Colmar, Pennsylvania.  In the past five years, Dorman’s earnings rose at about a 9
percent annual clip. The company set an earnings record of $1.47
a share last year, and analysts expect $2.22 this year.  Dorman stock is up about 82 percent this year, and it sells
for 14 times earnings.  I don’t know when U.S.  auto sales  will again hit the pace
of 16 million to 17 million vehicles a year posted from 2001
through 2006. In 2009, the figure was about 11 million.  In this case, what’s bad for General Motors is good for
Dorman. Fewer new-car sales means consumers are likely to buy
more replacement parts to keep their old cars going.  Disclosure note: I own shares in Dorman for clients and
personally. I have no long or short positions in the other
stocks discussed in this column.  ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  