-- France Chafes at German Plea for Quasi-Automatic Euro Penalties
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2010-09-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/france-balks-at-german-call-for-quasi-automatic-debt-deficit-sanctions.html
France sought to blunt German calls
for “quasi-automatic” sanctions on debt-laden euro-area
countries as finance ministers squared off over how to patch up
the management of the 16-nation euro economy.  With Ireland’s worsening fiscal situation looming as the
euro’s next test, French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said
sanctions on high-deficit countries must remain subject to a
political decision.  “We cannot put political power to one side,” Lagarde told
reporters last night after finance ministers debated tougher
rules in Brussels. “There needs to be a certain immediacy to
sanctions, but the question has to come back to the politicians.
That’s the French position.”  European governments are trying to plug the holes in an
economic management system that left Greece in need of a 110
billion-euro ($148 billion) loan package in May and led to
speculation that the euro region might break up.  Lagarde opposed German pleas for any sanctions proposed by
the  European Commission  to kick in automatically unless blocked
by a “qualified majority” in which bigger countries have more
votes. She urged a simpler one-country, one-vote system that
would lessen Germany’s influence.  France puts out its 2011 budget outline on Sept. 29, under
pressure to shrink the deficit from an estimated 8 percent of
gross domestic product this year, the fifth-highest in the euro
region.  Automatic Fines  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , in a position
paper released before yesterday’s meeting, called for the
“application of sanctions on a quasi-automatic basis.” The
differences echo the 1990s, when Germany’s call for automatic
fines on high-deficit countries was blocked by a French-led
coalition.  More pressure to tighten the enforcement of euro deficit
rules came from President  Jean-Claude Trichet  of the European
Central Bank, which did its part to rescue the euro by taking
the unprecedented step of buying distressed countries’ bonds.  Speaking to a  European Parliament  committee yesterday,
Trichet called for “more ambition” to stiffen the rules and
said the European Union must make “substantial progress”
toward forcing governments to hew to the euro limit on debt of
60 percent of gross domestic product.  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said he will propose legislation for tougher enforcement on
Sept. 29, including “quasi-automatic” punishments of nations
that ignore the debt limit or a separate limit on budget
deficits of 3 percent of GDP.  Tougher Sanctions  Finance ministers “endorsed broadly” the ideas, Rehn
said. The EU aims to agree on the overhaul by late October so it
can be distilled into European law. Tougher sanctions wouldn’t
be imposed until 2012 at the earliest, once governments have
reported their fiscal figures for 2011.  “Sanctions would be introduced at an earlier stage, be
more progressive and rely on a wider spectrum of enforcement
measures,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in a post-
meeting statement.  Still up for debate is when financial penalties would bite
and whether offenders could be cut off from EU subsidies for
farming and regional-development aid, as Germany demands.  The focus on sanctions is misplaced because it would fail
to catch countries like Spain and Ireland that ran budget
surpluses until the onset of the financial crisis, said Sony
Kapoor, managing director of Re-Define, an economic think tank.  ‘Much Bigger’  “It’s primarily designed to not allow Greece to happen
again,” Kapoor said. “There’s nothing to prevent a Spain or
Ireland from happening again. Those are the much bigger
problems.”  Ireland’s 10-year yield spread over German bonds jumped to
a record 431 basis points yesterday after Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded Anglo Irish Bank Corp.’s senior debt, raising
concern that it will cost the government more to stabilize the
bank. The spread, a reflection of investor doubts about a
nation’s financial health, was at 415 basis points for Portugal,
187 basis points for Spain and 865 basis points for Greece.  “High-debt countries need to make greater efforts,”
Luxembourg Finance Minister  Luc Frieden  told reporters.  While all agreed to sharpen the focus on debt, there were
divisions over how to frame the new rules. A German-led group
called for sanctions on high-debt countries that miss annual
debt-reduction targets. Others including Italy and Belgium, both
with debt over 100 percent of GDP, said a “medium term” target
is enough.  Consumer Confidence  Fiscal concerns had receded as  European economic growth 
spurted to 1 percent in the second quarter, the fastest pace in
four years. Reports last week of weaker-than-estimated
industrial orders in July and consumer confidence in September
indicated that the recovery is losing momentum.  The euro has rallied after troughing at a four-year low of
$1.1876 on June 7. It traded at $1.3451 at 11:05 p.m. Brussels
time yesterday. It is 17 percent overvalued according to a
Bloomberg index of the relative buying power of world
currencies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Deen  in Brussels at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  