-- French Pork Exchange Postpones Trading for the Second Time in Two Weeks
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2010-09-27T17:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/french-pork-exchange-postpones-trading-for-the-second-time-in-two-weeks.html
France’s only pig exchange
postponed trading for the second time in as many weeks after
farmers and slaughterers failed to agree on a price to cover
surging feed costs for hog breeders.  Trading at the  Marche du Porc Breton  in Plerin, France, was
canceled today and deferred until Sept. 30, a spokeswoman for
the exchange said. Prices at the exchange, where live pigs are
traded twice a week, fell the most in almost two years on Sept.
23 after trading was deferred three days earlier.  Wheat futures have jumped 69 percent this year on NYSE
Liffe in Paris, while corn has surged 52 percent, raising the
costs of feeding pigs.  “The farmers are losing money,” said Cedric Weber, an
analyst at farm adviser  Offre et Demande Agricole , via phone.
“For 2 1/2 years they’ve been losing money because of the low
price of pork and the high price of cereals, and now prices of
cereal and protein crops are going up again.”  European Union pig producers face a “drastic” situation
due to rising costs and expensive regulation, farm association
Copa-Cogeca said last week, asking the EU to take action.  “The French pork market has had only had about four months
of profitability since 2007,” said Weber, who is based in
Bourges, France. “The buyers again asked for a lower price.
We’re in a real conflict.”  Labor Expenses  Prices in  Plerin  fell 3.9 percent to 1.153 euros ($1.55) a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) on Sept. 24, the biggest slide since Oct.
30, 2008. Pigs are transported straight from farms to
slaughterhouses after the lots are traded at the exchange.  French pig farmers face competition from breeders in
Germany who have lower labor costs, as well as better access to
pork buyers in Poland and Eastern Europe, according to Weber.  EU makers of feed for livestock expect herds to shrink
“significantly” if cereal prices stay at current levels,
Alexander Doering, secretary-general of the European Feed
Manufacturers’ Federation, said Sept. 10. Pig farmers had
already reacted to higher costs by buying fewer piglets and not
filling their stables, Doering said.  Smaller herds are needed to restore profitability,
according to Weber. The breeding cycle for pigs means any
reduction in production will need six to eight months to take
effect, while slaughtering of sows may result in a temporary
glut of pork, he said.  ‘Serious Risk’  “What we saw in 2007 was the slaughter of sows, which
brought even more meat to the market,” Weber said.  Last week’s decision to defer trading discredited the
market and put the Marche de Porc Breton “at serious risk,”
SNIV-SNCP, the French meat-industry association, said in a Sept.
22 statement. The pork crisis is affecting slaughterers as well
as breeders, it said.  “Blocking the thermometer has never cured the fever,” the
Paris-based group said. “The lack of functioning of the Breton
pork market could open the way for new relations between buyers
and sellers.”  France is the third-largest EU pig producer, with a hog
population of 14.8 million animals at the end of 2009, behind
Germany and Spain with 26.7 million and 26.3 million pigs
respectively, according to data from Eurostat.  Pigs for slaughter are traded in Plerin every week on
Monday from 2:30 p.m. and on Thursday at 10:30 a.m. About 10,000
to 15,000 pigs are traded in lots during the Monday session,
which usually lasts 45 minutes, and around 60,000 animals on
Thursday in a session that generally takes about 2 hours,
according to Benoit Monin, the market’s head of sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 