-- FSA Proposes Regulations for Accounting Firms on Client-Asset Reports
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-09-27T11:53:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/fsa-proposes-regulations-for-accounting-firms-on-client-asset-reports.html
Britain’s financial regulator
proposed changes to the way accounting firms sign-off on client-
asset reports in a bid to correct “serious failings”
identified in a study of the industry.  The measures are part of an initiative to improve financial
firms’ segregation of client assets, the  Financial Services
Authority  said today in a statement. Failings identified in the
accounting industry show a “general deficiency” in applying
FSA requirements on client assets, the agency said.  “It is ultimately a firm’s responsibility to ensure that
they have adequate systems in place, but they, as we, rely on
their auditors to provide the necessary assurance,” Richard
Sutcliffe, a sector leader at the FSA, said in the  statement .  The FSA has been under pressure to clarify rules on client
assets since they were deemed to be flawed by a London judge
overseeing a case involving  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The
regulator has been examining whether investment firms properly
separate client money following Lehman’s 2008 bankruptcy.  The proposed changes include confirming and clarifying the
standards required for the auditors’ reports and increasing the
information required, according to the statement.  The FSA will consult with the auditing industry until the
end of the year and publish a final policy statement during the
first quarter of 2011, it said.  Failings cited by the FSA today include auditors giving
“clean” reports on clients with “significant” breaches of
the client-asset rules. Other shortcomings include the omission
of dates and signatures from reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 