-- U.K. Stocks Decline in London as AstraZeneca, Smiths Fall; Unilever Rises
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-09-27T15:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/ftse-100-index-fluctuates-as-unilever-rallies-smiths-group-declines.html
The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index  retreated
as companies from Smiths Group Plc to AstraZeneca Plc fell in
London, offsetting a rally in technology stocks.  Smiths Group Plc  slid 1.6 percent after BofA-Merrill Lynch
Global Research lowered its recommendation for the world’s
biggest maker of airport scanners. AstraZeneca Plc declined
after the drugmaker’s experimental cancer treatment missed a
study goal. Sage Group Plc and Autonomy Corp. rose as Barclays
Capital recommended the software companies.  The  FTSE 100  declined 25.06, or 0.5 percent, to 5,573.42 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London after swinging betweens and losses
more than 10 times today. The  FTSE All-Share Index  slipped 0.3
percent, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  lost 0.5 percent.  “It’s been a gradual chipping away of strength today
rather than a concerted selloff,” said London-based Anthony
Grech, head of research at IG Index. “A cautious start on Wall
Street hasn’t helped sentiment. Traders seem broadly happy to be
sidelined today.”  Smiths Group  lost 1.6 percent to 1,207 pence after BofA-
Merrill Lynch downgraded the shares to “neutral” from “buy,”
citing the company’s exposure to the U.S. economy.  “We are concerned that where most companies can offset
slower developed world growth through emerging markets, Smiths
may struggle due to high exposure to the U.S. but low emerging
markets sales,” wrote London-based analyst  Alex Toms  in a
report to clients.  Smiths generates about 48 percent of revenue in the U.S.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Failed Study  AstraZeneca retreated 1.6 percent to 3,280 pence after its
experimental cancer treatment zibotentan failed to help patients
with a kind of prostate tumor live longer, missing the main goal
of a study. The company said it doesn’t plan to seek regulatory
approval for the drug.  Sage Group  and  Autonomy  paced advancing shares, climbing
3.1 percent to 266.3 pence and 1.6 percent to 1,800 pence
respectively. Barclays Capital rated the software companies
“overweight” in new coverage.  Analysts also recommended  Micro Focus International Plc , a
U.K. business software maker whose clients include Tesco Plc.
The stock jumped 5.3 percent to 385.2 pence.  Strengthened Position  Unilever Plc climbed 1.3 percent to 1,816 pence. The shares
rallied after the maker of Dove shower gel agreed to buy U.S.-
based Alberto Culver Co. for $3.7 billion to become the world’s
largest maker of hair-conditioning products.  “Financially the deal makes sense,” said London-based
 James Edwardes-Jones , a consumer analyst at Execution Noble.
“Strategically it strengthens Unilever’s number three position
in hair care, particularly in America.”  The cash acquisition, which includes the St. Ives and
Simple brands, will add to earnings per share in its first year,
Unilever said in a statement.  Spice Plc rallied 4.5 percent to 69.5 pence on the broader
 All-Share index  after Cilantro Acquisitions Ltd. agreed to buy
the company for about 251.1 million pounds in cash to expand its
energy sector business.  Shares of  International Personal Finance Plc  also advanced,
climbing 4.8 percent to 278.1 pence. The U.K. lender issued 200
million Polish zloty ($68 million) of debt as part of a strategy
to diversify its funding sources and extend its debt maturity
profile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 