-- Genting Pays New York State $380 Million for Aqueduct Video Gambling Right
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-09-27T21:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/genting-pays-new-york-state-380-million-for-aqueduct-video-gambling-right.html
Genting Malaysia Bhd . paid  New York 
state $380 million to develop an electronic slot machine parlor
at New York City’s  Aqueduct Racetrack , $80 million more than the
minimum specified by the state.  The payment by the Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia-based company
arrived five days before the due date. New York state plans to
sell $250 million of bonds backed by its personal income tax to
help finance the project, said Erik Kriss, a spokesman for the
Budget Division.  “After almost a decade of delay, this project is finally
becoming a reality and all New Yorkers will benefit,” Governor
 David Paterson  said in a  statement . The payment exceeded the
$300 million assumed by lawmakers in the state budget, which
closed a $9.2 billion gap. Similar assumptions in previous years
were inaccurate.  The state expects the video-lottery machines will produce
more than $279 million of revenue annually after paying gambling
prizes and other expenses, according to  Jennifer Givner , a
spokeswoman for the New York Lottery, which handled bidding for
the project.  About 1,600 machines are to be installed within six months,
followed within six months by another 2,925 terminals, a 2,100-
space parking garage and a new pedestrian bridge to the Aqueduct
subway station, according to the  recommendation  by the Lottery.
Later, Genting will build a new covered entrance to the race
track, which is in Queens.  The payment came almost two weeks after Genting’s stock
rose to a two-year high in Kuala Lumpur when the contract was
approved.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  