-- GIC to Have More Flexible Asset Allocation, Focus on Emerging Economies
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-09-27T16:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/gic-to-have-more-flexible-asset-allocation-focus-on-emerging-economies.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp. , manager of more than $100 billion of reserves, will be
able to more quickly adjust the make-up of its assets and will
focus on emerging markets as they outpace developed economies.  The fund, with the approval of the board, will be free to
change its asset allocation over the medium term, or within five
years, to “respond more flexibly to significant risks or
opportunities,” Chief Investment Officer  Ng Kok Song  said in
the annual report yesterday.  GIC,  ranked  the world’s sixth-largest state investment
company by Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute in California, said
it will continue to increase its investments in higher-growth
emerging economies, especially in Asia, as expansion in
developed nations slows. Its holdings in the U.S. fell to 36
percent of its portfolio in the year ended March 31 from 38
percent the previous year, according to the annual report.  “They’re trying to manage different time periods of
investments,” said  Rachel Ziemba , London-based senior analyst
at Roubini Global Economics. “On the one hand, they’re an
investor with a long-term time horizon; on the other hand, some
of the dynamics of public asset markets are such that there’s a
risk of getting whiplashed by some of the moves in the market.”  GIC, established in 1981, said annual returns in the past
20 years averaged 7.1 percent in U.S. dollar terms, compared
with 5.7 percent in the previous fiscal year. The rate of return
in excess of global inflation rose to 3.8 percent from 2.6
percent. GIC didn’t give the value of its assets or how much
they rose or fell.  ‘Significant Uncertainties’  The 20-year annualized return at Temasek Holdings Pte, the
city-state’s other investment firm, was 14 percent in the 12
months ended March 31. Temasek manages S$186 billion ($137
billion).  “While the global economy is experiencing a rebound, the
recovery path beyond this year is subject to significant
uncertainties,” GIC Deputy Chairman  Tony Tan  said in the
report. “The financial landscape has become more volatile, with
more uncertainty and tail risk.” Tail risk refers to extreme
market moves caused by rare financial events such as the
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  Sovereign risks have increased especially in Europe and
asset price bubbles could be threats in emerging markets, Tan
said in the report. There also is a risk that the developed
world will swing toward protectionism, he said.  Rampant Uncertainty  “There’s a lot of uncertainty clouding the global outlook;
that should translate into volatility in asset prices,” said
 David Cohen , director of Asian economic forecasting at Action
Economics in Singapore. “But the global economy can continue on
a recovery trajectory and that should be supportive for the
asset holdings of GIC.”  Slower growth in developed economies will characterize the
macroeconomic environment over the next 10 years, while
expansion in emerging economies will continue as domestic demand
offsets weaker exports, Ng said.  “Investors will have to grapple with the contrast between
deflation risk and deteriorating sovereign-debt ratings in the
developed economies versus inflation risk and stronger credit
ratings in the emerging economies,” he said.  Nouriel Roubini, a professor at New York University who was
among those who correctly predicted the 2008 financial crisis,
said yesterday there’s a high probability of another recession
in the U.S., with Japan’s outlook “anemic,” underscoring risks
to the global recovery.  GIC Portfolio  GIC’s holdings of developed market equities rose to 41
percent of its portfolio as of March 31 from 28 percent a year
earlier, it said. The fund repurchased shares of companies in
developed markets starting in early 2009, after selling them
from July 2007 to September 2008 because it was concerned about
the overvaluation of risk assets, according to the report.  Its allocation to alternative investments -- including real
estate, private equity, infrastructure and natural resources --
fell to 25 percent from 30 percent.  Investments in fixed income and cash fell to 24 percent
from 32 percent as funds were used for the purchase of equities,
according to the report.  Global Logistic Properties Ltd., the overseas logistics
unit of GIC, aims to raise as much as S$3.4 billion in
Singapore’s biggest initial public offering since 1993, it said
in a prospectus posted yesterday on the Monetary Authority of
Singapore website.  GIC bought stakes in Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG in 2008 as
the collapse in the U.S. subprime-mortgage market in 2007 froze
credit markets and led to about $1.8 trillion in losses and
writedowns at financial institutions worldwide.  GIC’s assets fell more than 20 percent in the year to March
31, 2009. The fund said in March this year it completed the
conversion of 11 billion Swiss francs ($11.2 billion) of notes
in UBS into stock, becoming the Zurich-based bank’s biggest
shareholder with at 6.6 percent stake.  The fund said it will open an office in Mumbai in the next
quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  