-- Gillard Says Climate Committee to Explore Australian Carbon Price Options
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-09-27T07:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/gillard-says-climate-committee-to-explore-australian-carbon-price-options.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has established a multi-party committee to study options
for introducing a price on carbon in a country where coal
accounts for more than 80 percent of electricity production.  Gillard will chair the group, with Climate Change Minister
 Greg Combet  serving as deputy, she said in a statement today.
Greens Party Senator  Christine Milne  is a co-deputy chair.  Wayne Swan , treasurer and deputy prime minister, will also represent
the government on the panel.  The government will invite two lawmakers from the
opposition Liberal-National coalition and two from the Greens
Party as well as independent legislators to be on the committee,
set to meet for the first time next month, Gillard said. The
group will also rely on four outside advisers.  “Parliamentary members of the committee will be drawn from
those who are committed to tackling climate change and who
acknowledge that effectively reducing carbon pollution by 2020
will require a carbon price,” Gillard said in her statement.  The Liberal-National coalition opposition rejected the
committee and said it won’t accept Gillard’s invitation to
participate.  It is “unacceptable that membership of a parliamentary
committee is effectively barred unless an elected representative
signs up to a dictated solution in advance,” opposition
environment spokesman  Greg Hunt  said in a statement today.  ‘Hybrid’ Response  The committee will consider proposals including a market-
based emissions-trading system, a carbon tax or a “hybrid” of
both and will “usually” meet monthly, Gillard said in her
statement.  Ross Garnaut , a professor and a climate change adviser to
the Australian government under  Kevin Rudd , is among the panel’s
four outside experts.  The group includes Will Steffen, the executive director of
the Australian National University’s Climate Change Institute,
and Rod Sims, a director of consulting firm Port Jackson
Partners Ltd. Patricia Faulkner, chair of the Australian Social
Inclusion Board, is the fourth.  Gillard pledged to set up the committee as part of an
agreement with the Greens Party. The Greens received a surge in
voter support in Australia’s August election after the ruling
Labor Party deferred its cap-and-trade plan to reduce carbon
pollution until after 2012 amid opposition from lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 