-- Goldman Trades Where Morgan No Longer Treads With Gap Widening
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-09-27T03:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/goldman-trades-where-morgan-no-longer-treads-with-gap-widening.html
  Morgan Stanley  executives have been
trying to prove since the financial crisis that they run a
different type of company than  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
Investors may be finally starting to believe them.  The correlation between the two firms’ daily share-price
movements, a measure of how closely securities move in tandem,
is down 17 percent this year from the average over the last
decade. The correlation in the third quarter so far dropped to
the lowest for any quarter since 2003. Goldman Sachs is down 12
percent in 2010 and Morgan Stanley 15 percent, both trailing the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which is up 4.5 percent.  The change reflects how the two longest-surviving major
investment banks have chosen different directions. Morgan
Stanley Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 52, has pushed his
firm toward a lower-risk model, expanding into retail brokerage
and leaving Goldman Sachs as the only firm among the 25 largest
U.S. financial companies to get more than 60 percent of its
revenue from  investment banking  and trading.  “There’s definitely been a divergence in the business
emphasis of Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs as a result of the
financial crisis,” said Jordan Posner, senior portfolio manager
at New York-based Matrix Asset Advisors Inc., which manages more
than $1 billion and owns Morgan Stanley shares. “While there
are a number of industry variables that will be in common
between Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, as well as JPMorgan
and other firms, there is now a choice in what kind of business
model you want to invest in.”  Resembling Merrill  After pursuing a strategy that emulated Goldman Sachs’s
trading-centric model before confidence in financial
institutions collapsed in 2008 -- prompting Morgan Stanley and
Goldman Sachs to be approved by the  Federal Reserve  as deposit-
taking institutions -- Morgan Stanley now has a revenue
breakdown more closely resembling that of Merrill Lynch & Co.,
where Gorman worked from 1999 to 2005. Goldman Sachs has largely
maintained the model that made it the most profitable U.S.
securities firm in Wall Street history.  Morgan Stanley has cut the proportion of its revenue that
comes from investment banking and trading to 54 percent over the
12 months ending June 30 from 65 percent in 2006. During that
time, Goldman Sachs’s trading and investment-banking revenue has
climbed to 80 percent of the firm’s total, from 75 percent. That
compares with 27 percent at  JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co .  ‘Mix of Business’  Morgan Stanley made its shift last year when it purchased a
controlling stake in a joint venture with  Citigroup Inc .’s Smith
Barney brokerage. Gorman, who led the brokerage before taking
over as CEO this year, said in a letter to shareholders in April
that the unit “is going to play an increasingly important role
in our growth and profitability.”  Goldman Sachs, led by former trading chief Lloyd C. Blankfein, 56, posted record profit in 2009, when 84 percent of
its revenue came from trading and investment banking. The firm
set a fixed-income-trading revenue record in the first quarter
of 2010.  “Our mix of business is not necessarily driven by the
management or the board sitting back and saying, ‘OK, we’d like
to have x percent in this and y percent in this,’” Goldman
Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said on a conference
call in July. “A great portion of the way our mix of business
unfolds is driven by what our clients want.”  Mark Lake, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment, as did Melissa Daly, a Goldman Sachs spokeswoman.  Correlation Coefficient  “Goldman has always traded at a premium,” said  Peter Boockvar , an equity strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York .
“If Goldman continues to generate quarter to quarter of superior
growth, they’ll get more of their premium back, and they can
outperform.”  The correlation coefficient between the two firms’ daily
share-price movements this year as of Sept. 24 was 0.66, down
from 0.85 in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s lower than Morgan Stanley’s correlation with New York-
based JPMorgan and the same as Goldman Sachs’s with JPMorgan.
The coefficient in the third quarter was 0.58.  The correlation coefficient is a ratio that measures the
association between stock movements and can range from 1 to -1.
Smaller values indicate less of a relationship, while negative
values show an inverse relationship. Investors often use the
correlation between securities to determine which stocks fit
best in their portfolios and which firms are peers of others.  Among the 80 companies in the  S&amp;P 500 Financials Index ,
Morgan Stanley has had the highest correlation with Goldman
Sachs every year since the end of 1999, the year Goldman Sachs
went public. This year, Goldman Sachs is Morgan Stanley’s 17th-
most correlated.  Regulatory Risk  The correlation between the rolling monthly returns of the
stocks over the last year is 0.88, according to data compiled by
St. Louis-based Argent Capital Management LLC. That measure
lessens the effect of a single day’s share-price movement.  While the daily movements are mirroring each other less,
the two stocks have performed similarly for the year. Goldman
Sachs is down 12 percent so far in 2010, closing at $147.28 on
Sept. 24. Morgan Stanley has fallen 15 percent to $25.15.  “If you line up both of those businesses, you’re probably
going to get 70 percent-plus overlap, so you should still have a
relatively high correlation, but they are less similar than they
were a couple years ago,” said  James Ellman , a former Merrill
Lynch bank-stock portfolio manager who is now president of San
Francisco-based Seacliff Capital.  Volcker Rule  Some of the difference in share-price movement comes from a
view that Goldman Sachs had greater legal and regulatory risk
after the Securities and Exchange Commission accused the bank of
fraud related to a collateralized debt obligation it sold in
2007, investors said. Goldman Sachs dropped 13 percent the day
the SEC announced the suit, while Morgan Stanley fell 5.6
percent. Goldman Sachs rose 4.4 percent the day it paid $550
million to settle the case, while Morgan Stanley shares were up
0.2 percent.  “Goldman has been to some degree a victim of its own
success,” Ellman said. “Morgan Stanley, while in the same boat
as Goldman, is not seen as the same regulatory lightning rod as
Goldman. That’s something that’s going to cause a different
level of volatility.”  The daily correlation declined in the third quarter after
Goldman Sachs’s second-quarter earnings missed analysts’
estimates for the first time in six quarters, while Morgan
Stanley beat estimates for the third time in seven quarters.  The firms’ shares had a higher daily correlation in the
first quarter, 0.82, as they both fell more than 8 percent over
two days after President  Barack Obama  proposed the Volcker rule,
which bars proprietary trading by banks and limits investments
in private equity and  hedge funds .  Gorman’s Strategy  The decline in the correlation between the two firms’
shares comes even as the broader equity markets have traded
largely in lockstep, reacting to economic data and questions
about whether the U.S. recovery is sustainable. The median
correlation between stocks in the  S&amp;P 500  and the index itself
is 0.72 this year, the second-highest level this decade.  Gorman’s strategy differed from that implemented when  John Mack  took over as CEO in 2005. Mack, who is still chairman of
the firm, bought stakes in hedge funds, started a private-equity
business, expanded mortgage and real estate holdings and took on
more risk in principal trading. That backfired when $9.4 billion
of mortgage-holding writedowns led to Morgan Stanley’s first
quarterly loss as a public company in 2007, and it reported $4.4
billion in real estate losses in 2008 and 2009.  “Morgan Stanley has deliberately rebalanced our
institution away from our proprietary investing and proprietary
trading,” Gorman said at a banking conference in  Frankfurt  this
month. “We were doing this before the Volcker rule was put in
place. We are doing it for good business. If you’re managing
shareholder capital, third-party capital, investing on your own
behalf is not what a large, public company should be doing.”  ‘Poor Man’s XYZ’  A lower correlation over time may generate interest in
Morgan Stanley from investors who previously chose just one
investment-banking stock, said Kenneth Crawford, a senior
portfolio manager at Argent. Goldman Sachs shares have
outperformed Morgan Stanley’s every year this decade.  “If you think you’re buying a poor man’s XYZ stock, then
you obviously have to be buying it at a discount,” said
Crawford, whose firm manages about $900 million. “If that is no
longer or just less of a discussion point for a company, then
there are other things you’re looking at, and if you’re pressing
the ‘B’ button, those different things must get you excited.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec D.B. McCabe in New York at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 