-- Greek Loan Losses, Deposits May Spark Downgrades, Moody’s Says
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-09-27T16:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/greek-loan-losses-deposits-may-spark-downgrades-moody-s-says.html
Greek banks’ loan losses and
deposit outflows are keeping them at risk of credit-rating
downgrades, Moody’s Investor’s Services said.  “Greek banks’ non-performing loans remain at the upper end
of expectations,”  Constantinos Kypreos , a Nicosia-based Moody’s
analyst, said in an e-mailed statement today. That, combined
with continued deposit outflows “could potentially increase the
likelihood of negative rating actions.”  Moody’s said deteriorating asset quality and funding
conditions of the industry “continue to justify” a negative
outlook on both the sector and separate bank ratings. Economic
data for Greece and recent second-quarter earnings for banks
indicate “a trajectory broadly in line” with expectations,
according to the statement.  Deposits by businesses and households held in Greek banks
in July dropped to 212.3 billion euros ($286.1 million) from
216.5 billion euros the previous month, the Bank of Greece said
on Sept. 6, the seventh straight monthly drop as cash-strapped
customers dip into savings amid wage and pension cuts to reduce
the European Union’s second-highest budget deficit.  Deposit outflows are estimated at about 31 billion euros so
far this year, or 11 percent of total deposits, Moody’s said.  Non-performing loans have risen to 9 percent of the total
in the first half of the year, Moody’s said.  “Although these pressures are currently addressed by the
banks access to ECB funding, Moody’s notes the temporary nature
of ECB support means that the system still needs to fix its
funding structure and drastically reduce ECB funding over the
medium term,” according to the statement.  Greek banks’ reliance on European Central Bank liquidity
declined in August for the first time this year, according to
the country’s central bank on Sept. 10, with lenders having a
total of 95.9 billion euros for refinancing operations compared
with 96.2 billion euros in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  