-- Guitar Gadget, E-Reader for Kids May Prove Top Holiday Gifts
-- B y   I a n   T h o m s o n
-- 2010-09-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/guitar-gadget-kids-e-reader-may-prove-top-holiday-gifts-toy-insider-says.html
Paper Jamz Guitar , which lets
children strum to pop music, and an interactive e-reader may be
among the best-selling gifts this holiday season as toymakers
offer budget-conscious parents lower-priced electronic toys.  WowWee Group Ltd.’s $24.99 guitar, which comes with pre-
programmed music and allows users to create their own tunes, and
 VTech Electronics Ltd.’s  V.Reader, an animated e-book priced at
$59.99, are among the “Hot 20” chosen by the  Toy Insider , a
consumer-shopping guide coming out today.  “Three years ago, you’d see lots of $200 to $300 toys,”
Jonathan Samet, the Toy Insider’s publisher, said in an
interview. “Right now, there’s not one toy on our list that
costs more than $60.”  Consumers have cut back on spending amid lingering U.S.
unemployment and the economic slump, escalating competition
between toymakers including  Mattel Inc.  and  Hasbro Inc. 
Toymakers typically get at least a third of their annual revenue
from the fourth quarter, making it the biggest shopping period
of the year.  The fifth annual Toy Insider, featuring 96 toys broken down
by age group, will be published in the Nov. 17 issue of Woman’s
Day. Further items will be listed on the group’s  website . Value-
for-money, technology-based items, toys based on popular culture
and games that bring the family together will be among the top
sellers, Toy Insider said.  Toy Sales  Toy sales may climb as much as 3 percent in the fourth
quarter, said  Gerrick Johnson , a toy industry analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in New York.  “There are more opportunities to buy toys,” Johnson said,
citing efforts by  Sears Holding Corp.  and Toys ‘R’ Us to
increase shelf space.  U.S. toy sales totaled $7.8 billion in the first half of
this year, little changed from the same period a year ago,
according to NPD Group Inc., a Port Washington-based researcher.
In 2009, toy sales fell by less than one percent to $21.5
billion, NPD said.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook on the U.S.
retail industry to stable on Sept. 22. It expects holiday sales
and margins to be marginally better than last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Thomson  in New York at 
 ithomson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  