-- IBM to Buy Blade Network to Gain Data-Center Switches
-- B y   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 2010-09-27T20:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/ibm-to-buy-blade-network-to-gain-data-center-switches-update1-.html
     Sept. 27 (Bloomberg) --  International Business Machines
Corp. , the world’s largest computer-services provider, agreed to
buy closely held Blade Network Technologies Inc. to gain
products that connect server computers in company data centers.  IBM didn’t give a value for the purchase in its statement
today. Santa Clara, California-based  Blade Network ’s investors
include Garnett & Helfrich Capital and Juniper Networks Inc.  IBM is bolstering data-center offerings as rivals expand in
corporate computing. Blade Network makes switches that connect
servers, storage and networks in data centers, large rooms of
computers that handle corporate tasks. It’s the third
acquisition IBM has announced this month, after a $1.7 billion
deal for storage-analytics maker  Netezza Corp.  and a purchase of
software maker OpenPages Inc. for an undisclosed sum.  The move may help IBM compete as rivals increasingly tie
networking gear with data centers. Cisco Systems Inc., the
world’s largest maker of networking equipment, last year
released its first blade servers, pushing into the data-center
market and pitting it against Hewlett-Packard Co. and IBM. In
April, HP bought 3Com Corp. for $2.7 billion to bolster its
data-center networking.  Sam Palmisano , IBM’s chief executive officer, said in May
he is planning to spend about $20 billion on acquisitions in the
next five years. He’s made more than 100 purchases since taking
over the company eight years ago.  IBM, based in Armonk, New York,  gained  54 cents to $134.65
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have added 2.9 percent this year.  Oracle Corp., the world’s second-largest software maker,
bought server-maker Sun Microsystems Inc. for more than $7
billion in January. This month, HP agreed to pay $2.35 billion
for data-storage maker 3Par Inc., after a bidding contest with
Dell Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Hoffmann  in New York at  khoffmann4@bloomberg.net 
or   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  