-- IMF Says BOE Should Buy Assets If Recovery Falters; Sees 2% Growth in 2011
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-09-27T14:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/imf-says-boe-should-buy-assets-if-recovery-falters-sees-2-growth-in-2011.html
The Bank of England should restart
its asset-purchase program to stimulate the economy if the
recovery falters, the International Monetary Fund said.  “The Bank of England’s accommodative stance reflects the
need to maintain overall policy stimulus as fiscal tightening
takes hold,” the Washington-based fund said today on its
website. “If the recovery were to weaken and increase
disinflationary pressure, asset purchases should resume.”  U.K. policy makers signaled last week that they’re moving
toward adding stimulus to the economy amid signs growth may be
slowing. The bank decided this month to hold its  bond plan  at
200 billion pounds ($316 billion) and keep the key interest rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent. The fund said that if the
economy improves, officials should withdraw stimulus to tame
consumer prices.  “The central bank must stand ready to start a gradual
tightening if output recovers apace and inflation continues to
surprise on the upside,” the IMF said. “Developments in labor
costs, other input prices, and inflation expectations warrant
particularly close monitoring.  The IMF said today the stabilization in U.K.  unemployment 
and the recovery in the banking industry suggest the economy is
“on the mend.” The fund also said the government has a
“strong and credible” budget plan.  The Conservative-led coalition government is preparing
expenditure cuts and tax increases totaling 113 billion pounds
to reduce a deficit that’s reached 11 percent of gross domestic
product.  Budget Deficit  “The consolidation plan and implementation of early
measures to tackle  the deficit  --- one of the highest in the
world in 2010 --- greatly reduces the risk of a costly loss of
confidence in fiscal sustainability and will help rebalance the
economy,” the report said. “These benefits outweigh the
expected costs in terms of adverse effects on near-term
growth.”  The IMF forecast the U.K. economy will grow 2 percent in
2011. It predicted 2.1 percent expansion in July. Growth will
accelerate to 2.5 percent “in the medium term,” while
inflation will slow to the bank’s 2 percent target by early
2012, the fund predicted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  