-- IMF's Shinohara Warns Against Devaluations, Says Japan's Measures `Unique'
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-09-27T06:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/imf-s-shinohara-warns-against-devaluations-says-japan-s-measures-unique-.html
Competitive currency devaluations
are detrimental to the world economy, International Monetary
Fund Deputy Managing Director  Naoyuki Shinohara  said, while
defending Japan’s intervention in the market this month.  Japan’s decision was “unique” because it experienced a 20
percent to 30 percent appreciation in its currency over the past
one to two years, and it’s facing “persistent” deflationary
pressure, Shinohara said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur today.  Japan this month intervened in the foreign-exchange market
for the first time since 2004 after the yen’s advance to a 15-
year high against the dollar threatened to stunt the nation’s
economic recovery. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  was under pressure
from business leaders to stop the yen’s gains from undermining
the exports propelling Japan’s growth.  “In principle, exchange rates should be market driven,”
said Shinohara, a former Japanese vice finance minister in
charge of currency policy. “One thing that we should avoid is
competitive devaluations, which are detrimental to global
economic growth. Japan’s situation is kind of unique.”  Japan’s currency had rallied amid concern about the
durability of the U.S. recovery and the effect of Europe’s debt
woes. The yen typically gains when investors avoid risk because
of the country’s current-account surplus and deflation.  Not a Model  “There may be cases when governments may need to intervene
in the market in order to respond to exchange-rate movements,”
said Shinohara. Japan’s intervention “doesn’t necessarily apply
to other countries,” he said.  China has limited gains in its yuan, and Asian nations from
South Korea to Thailand have also sold their currencies. The IMF
has called on the region to allow greater appreciation in
exchange rates to help bolster global demand.  Japan’s efforts to rein in public debt need to be
complemented by structural changes and deregulation to
revitalize the economy, Shinohara also said.  “They have the difficult task of improving productivity in
the economy at the same time they need to take measures to
control the budget deficit,” said Shinohara, who was in Kuala
Lumpur to attend a conference.  Japan has an “anemic” and “difficult” economic outlook,
New York University Professor Nouriel Roubini said at the same
conference today.  Shinohara separately said that progress has been made in
resolving an overhaul of IMF voting power. The fund is targeting
a resolution by the Group of 20 summit meeting in November, he
said. Changes should see the voting weight of advanced countries
decline to accommodate emerging markets, he said.  China will be one of the biggest gainers in the IMF’s
“reform,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  