-- India Court Tells Authorities to Fix Vodafone Taxes
-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 2010-09-27T11:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/indian-supreme-court-tells-tax-officials-to-respond-to-vodafone-appeal.html
India’s Supreme Court gave the tax
department four weeks to fix the amount it’s claiming from
 Vodafone Group Plc  on the company’s purchase of Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd.’s wireless assets in the country.  A three-judge bench of India’s highest court headed by
Chief Justice  S.H. Kapadia  today set Oct. 25 as the date for
its next hearing on an appeal by Vodafone of a lower court
ruling that upheld authorities’ right to claim the taxes. The
company may need to pay a part of the liability, estimated at
more than 120 billion rupees ($2.6 billion) including interest,
pending disposal of the case, the court indicated.  The Newbury, England-based company is appealing against the
Sept. 8 verdict of the Bombay High Court, which ruled
authorities have the jurisdiction to seek taxes from Vodafone
International Holdings BV on its 2007 purchase of Hutchison’s
Indian wireless operations.  “The Supreme Court will now give a final take on the
Vodafone matter,”  Hitesh Jain , a partner at Mumbai-based law
firm ALMT Legal, said by telephone. “It’s also one more forum
for Vodafone to debate the issue, to explain their position, so
it’s a positive development for the company.”  The carrier “firmly” believes its acquisition isn’t
liable for tax in India, Vodafone said in an e-mail. The
transaction was between Netherlands-based Vodafone International
and Hong Kong-based Hutchison and the stake Vodafone acquired
was owned by a Cayman Islands-based holding company.  Vodafone  fell 0.3 percent to 160.45 pence at 11:42 a.m. in
London trading.  India’s finance ministry estimates Vodafone’s tax liability
on the purchase at more than 120 billion rupees, S.S.N. Moorthy,
chairman of the  Central Board of Direct Taxes , said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
PS Patnaik in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  