-- Israeli Central Bank Raises Benchmark Rate to 2% on Surging Housing Costs
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-09-27T17:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/israeli-central-bank-raises-benchmark-rate-to-2-on-surging-housing-costs.html
The Bank of Israel raised its
 benchmark interest rate  for a sixth time since the global
economy began to recover as housing costs surged and growth
accelerated.  Governor  Stanley Fischer  increased the rate by a quarter-
point to 2 percent, the Jerusalem-based central bank said today.
Twelve of the 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg had forecast
the decision, while four expected no change. The central bank
also raised its growth forecast for 2010 to 4 percent from 3.7
percent.  The governor “continues to assign supreme importance to
reining in inflation, despite the risk that the shekel will
continue to strengthen against the dollar and the concerns of
exporters that their businesses will be harmed,”  Dan Ron , chief
investment officer of Tel Aviv-based Tachlit Investment House,
said in an e-mail.  Fischer has raised the key interest rate by 1.5 percentage
points from a record low in the past 13 months, as the economy
recovered from the impact of the worst global recession since
the Great Depression. While inflation has eased from 3.1 percent
a year ago to 1.8 percent, below the midpoint of the
government’s target range, home rental prices rose by 6.1
percent in the 12 months through August.  Fischer is likely to leave the rate unchanged at his next
decision at the end of October, and then raise it to 2.25
percent by the end of the year, Ron said.  ‘Upper Limit’  “House prices are still increasing steeply, and housing
loans continue to expand rapidly,” the central bank said in its
statement. “ Inflation expectations  calculated from the capital
market for one year ahead and those of private forecasters
remain in the area of the upper limit of the target inflation
range.”  House prices have increased 20 percent in the past year,
the Bank of Israel said, citing a Central Bureau of Statistics
survey.  The central bank is forecasting inflation of 2.5 percent
in the next 12 months, it said today. The central bank staff
forecasts a gradual increase in the benchmark interest rate to
2.7 percent in a year from now, it said.  Most economic indicators point to “continued rapid
expansion” in the third quarter, the Bank of Israel said.
Initial data from the central bank’s survey of companies
suggests that the expansion continued at a similar rate to that
in the first half of the year, it said.  Shekel  Economic growth accelerated to 4.6 percent in the second
quarter from 3.8 percent in the previous three months. Growth in
the first half was 4.1 percent, the Central Bureau of Statistics
said on Sept. 16.  The shekel strengthened to 3.6667 against the dollar at
6:35 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The currency traded at 3.6761 to the
dollar just before the announcement. The shekel has gained close
to 4 percent in the past month.  The yield on the government’s benchmark Mimshal Shiklit
note due January 2020 fell 5 basis points to 4.41 percent at the
2:45 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. It has gained 20 basis points this
month as traders geared up for a rate increase.  “One of the main elements supporting an interest-rate hike
is the continued rise in housing prices, and the expectations
that this trend will continue,”  Arie Tal , chief strategist at
Alumot-Sprint Investment House Ltd. in Herzliya, Israel, said in
an e-mailed report prior to the announcement. Figures showing
continued economic growth provide a “good opportunity” for a
rate increase, he said.  Growth Forecast  The economy will probably expand 4.1 percent this year,
powered by exports, consumer spending and home construction, the
statistics bureau said on Sept. 6. In 2009, growth was 0.8
percent. Unemployment fell in July to 6.2 percent, the lowest in
almost two years, the bureau reported on Sept. 21.  The rebound in the Israeli economy has prompted the
 benchmark TA-25 stock index  to gain more than 20 percent in the
past year, led by Avner Oil & Gas Ltd., a partner in the Tamar
gas field off Israel’s coast.  Fischer, who currently has sole responsibility for setting
rates, was appointed for a second term as governor on March 17.
He is in the process of implementing a new law that calls for
the creation of a six-member Monetary Policy Committee to make
rate decisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  