-- Hitler’s Cutlery, Liz Taylor Art, Mouton-Rothschild at Auction
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2010-09-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/hitler-s-cutlery-liz-taylor-art-mouton-rothschild-on-sale-auction-buzz.html
Tableware used by  Adolf Hitler ,
 Augustus John  drawings owned by  Elizabeth Taylor  and cases of
Mouton-Rothschild are among top lots in this week’s auctions.  The events start today at an auction house near a waste-
recycling center in the London suburbs, the venue for the sale
of an oil painting by a German Expressionist estimated to fetch
between 800,000 pounds ($1.26 million) and 1.2 million pounds.  A moonlit scene of cloth-capped figures in a mining village
was consigned by its owner to his local saleroom,  Chiswick
Auctions . Subsequent research by the Ludwig Meidner Archive in
Frankfurt and pigment analysis by the London-based specialists
Art Access & Research indicated the painting, which contains a
defaced self-portrait and a pencil signature on the reverse, was
an original work by  Ludwig Meidner  (1884-1966) from about 1912.  “The research on this painting has been an investment,”
said Jan Leman, picture consultant at Chiswick Auctions, which
paid between 5,000 pounds and 7,000 pounds for the pigment
analysis. “It’s been recognized as a Meidner by international
experts. Somehow it slipped through the fingers of the other
auction houses. These things happen,” Leman said.  The work was bought by its dealer-cum-collector for about
2,400 pounds at a west London auction of unclaimed liquidated
property six years ago, Leman said.  The Meidner Archive has suggested the painting was one of
the works the Jewish artist brought to England when he escaped
Nazi Germany in 1939.  A more violently Expressionistic “Apocalyptic Landscape”
(1913) by Meidner sold for a record 1.8 million pounds at
 Sotheby’s  in February 2006.  Augustus John  The Chiswick sale also includes 47 figure drawings by the
20th-century U.K. artist  Augustus John  entered by the Hollywood
actress Liz Taylor. Estimates range from 300 pounds to 1,200
pounds for each piece.  The London-born star’s father, Francis Taylor, was an art
dealer who established a gallery in the Beverly Hills Hotel,
where he sold works by John and other British artists.  “Taylor has an affinity with Chiswick,” Leman said. “She
and  Richard Burton  used to visit the area because it had the
first pub they’d come to after arriving at Heathrow.”  Mistress Eva  Cutlery that was used by Meidner’s persecutor, Hitler, and
his mistress Eva Braun is being offered for sale two days later
at an auction in the English Midlands.  The silver knives, forks and spoons were taken from the
Berghof, the Fuehrer’s mountain retreat in Bavaria, at the end
of World War II, said the Shropshire-based auction house
 Mullock’s .  The items are accompanied by a typed statement in German
from Berghof staff members Willi and Gretl Mitlstrasser stating
that they rescued 100 pieces of silverware before the house was
captured by Allied troops.  “Their motivation was to protect the items from looters,”
the auction house’s historical documents specialist, Richard
Westwood-Brookes, said in an interview.  The Mitlstrasser family subsequently sold Berghof cutlery.
The items included in Mullock’s Sept. 30 auction in Ludlow have
been entered by collectors based in the U.K. and Italy, said
Westwood-Brookes.  A cutlery set bearing Braun’s monogram and a fish knife
engraved “Adolf Hitler” are both estimated to fetch at least
1,000 pounds.  Authenticating watercolors by Adolf Hitler tends to be more
problematic, Westwood-Brookes said.  “We always err on the side of caution,” he said. “His
artworks were widely faked both during and after the war.”  The auction includes 15 watercolors attributed to Hitler,
including a study of a house, signed and dated 1910, that
carries an estimate of 8,000 pounds to 10,000 pounds.  Hong Kong Wine  Sotheby’s  will be holding wine auctions in Hong Kong on
Oct. 2 and Oct. 3 that it estimates will make as much as HK$75.7
million ($9.7 million). The sales will include more than 400
bottles of Chateau Petrus from an unidentified U.S. collector.  Another 6,500 bottles from the cellar of the Texas real-
estate investor Marcus D. Hiles include cases of Mouton-
Rothschild’s 1982 and 1990 vintages, both of which carry high
estimates of HK$120,000.  Asian buyers continue to dominate international wine
auctions, with seven out of the 10 most expensive lots at
Sotheby’s 40th Anniversary sale in London falling to bidders
from that region.  The event on Sept. 22 and Sept. 23 raised 2.4 million
pounds with fees against a high estimate of 2.1 million pounds,
based on hammer prices. Ninety-eight percent of the 1,308 lots
found buyers, Sotheby’s said in an e-mailed statement.  The top seller was a 60-bottle lot containing all but one
of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild’s vintages from 1945 to 2003. This
was bought by an Asian buyer for 50,600 pounds, beating
estimates of 15,000 pounds to 20,000 pounds.  ( Scott Reyburn  writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Scott Reyburn  in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 