-- Japanese Stocks Rise for First Time in Four Days on U.S. Data; Honda Gains
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-09-27T06:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/japanese-stocks-rise-for-first-time-in-four-days-on-u-s-data-canon-gains.html
Japanese  stocks  rose for the first
time in four days after a report showed U.S. demand for capital
goods increased more than forecast, easing concern the economic
recovery is faltering.  Honda Motor Co., a carmaker that gets more than 80 percent
of its sales abroad, jumped 2.9 percent.  Komatsu Ltd. , the
world’s second-biggest maker of construction equipment, climbed
3.2 percent.  Mitsubishi Corp. , Japan’s largest commodities
trader, gained 3.2 percent as metal and oil prices increased.
Consumer lenders plunged on speculation Takefuji Corp. will file
for bankruptcy protection.  “The higher-than-expected capital goods orders in the U.S.
are supporting the market,” said  Seiichiro Iwamoto , who helps
oversee $35 billion in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co.
“Demand for capital spending is unlikely to slump, since
companies have money to spare for it and interest rates have
remained low.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.4 percent to 9,603.14
at the 3 p.m. close of trading in Tokyo. The broader  Topix  index
climbed 1.3 percent to 849.30, with more than five times as many
shares advancing as declining.  Today was the last day to buy most Japanese stocks and be
entitled to the April-September dividend. About 1,400 companies
go ex-dividend tomorrow, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Tokyo Stock Exchange has 2,305 companies.  The dividend for Topix-listed companies is 1.94 percent of
their share prices on average, the lowest yield among benchmark
indexes for the world’s 10 largest developed stock markets.  More Government Spending?  The Financial Times said today that the ruling Democratic
Party of Japan plans to spend as much as $55 billion on measures
to boost economic growth and fight the effects of the strong yen.  The yen is headed for the strongest annual average level
against the dollar since currencies began trading freely in 1971,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and based on each day’s
close. That has eroded the value of overseas income at Japanese
companies when converted into yen.  Honda jumped 2.9 percent to 3,015 yen and  Canon Inc. , a
camera maker that gets 28 percent of its sales in the Americas,
advanced 2.5 percent to 3,890 yen. They were the  biggest
contributors  to the Topix’s gain. Komatsu increased 3.2 percent
to 1,935 yen. Fanuc Ltd., Japan’s No. 1 maker of industrial
robots, rose 3.2 percent to 10,730 yen and was the largest
support for the Nikkei.  ‘Positive for Economy’  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The index surged 2.1 percent in New York on Sept. 24 to
the highest close since May. Orders for U.S. capital equipment
rebounded 4.1 percent in August from a 5.3 percent decline in
July, figures from the Commerce Department showed on Sept. 24 in
Washington. The median forecasts of 11 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for an increase of 3 percent.  “It’s positive for the whole global economy that demand
for capital investment in the private sector is strong,” said
 Tomochika Kitaoka , a senior strategist at Mizuho Securities Co.
in Tokyo. “Demand should rise further. Capital investment is
still at 80 percent of the peak.”  Commodities traders had the second-biggest gain among the
33 industry groups in the Topix today. Mitsubishi rallied 3.2
percent to 1,977 yen, the highest close since Aug. 5. Mitsui &
Co., Japan’s second-largest trading company, advanced 3.3
percent to 1,247 yen. Sumitomo Corp., the No. 3, jumped 3.1
percent to 1,098 yen.  Consumer Lenders Plunge  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum climbed 0.7
percent on Sept. 24 to its highest level since April, and crude
oil for November delivery rose 1.7 percent to $76.49 a barrel in
New York, the biggest increase in two weeks.  Consumer lenders  dropped the most  among the Topix’s
industries after the Nikkei newspaper said Takefuji, Japan’s
third-largest consumer lender, was preparing to seek bankruptcy
protection in what would be Japan’s second-biggest such filing
this year.  Takefuji  shares closed untraded as sell orders outnumbered
bids. Aiful Corp. plunged 22 percent, Promise Co. retreated 11
percent and Acom Co. lost 10 percent. Those were the  three
biggest declines  among the 1,668 companies in the Topix index.  Takefuji said in a statement to the Tokyo Stock Exchange
today it’s “considering and implementing various measures right
now to revitalize our business, and it is not true that we
decided to file for bankruptcy.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 