-- Japan Counters China With Compensation Demand for Coast-Guard Ship Damages
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2010-09-27T09:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/japan-counters-china-with-compensation-demand-for-coast-guard-ship-damages.html
Japan said China should pay for
repairs to two Coast Guard vessels damaged in a collision with a
fishing boat, rejecting Chinese demands for compensation over an
incident that has soured ties and shows no sign of abating.  “We will demand that the ships be returned to their
original condition,” Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshito Sengoku 
said in Tokyo. “The ball’s in China’s court” to improve
relations that have sunk to the lowest in five years, he said.  The stand-off between Asia’s two biggest economies reflects
competing claims of sovereignty over uninhabited islets in an
area of the East China Sea that may contain oil and natural gas.
China and Japan have yet to implement an agreement signed in
2008 to jointly develop gas fields near the islands, known as
Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese.  Sengoku said this afternoon that two Chinese patrol boats
had been spotted near the disputed waters and that Japan had
deployed six  Coast Guard  vessels to monitor their movements. He
earlier reiterated the government’s rejection of Chinese demands
for reparations and an apology for the seizure of the trawler.
Japan released the boat’s captain on Sept. 24, triggering
criticism it bowed to Chinese pressure.  ‘Strategic Relationship’  “China’s ties with Japan are very important and are part
of a strategic relationship that is mutually beneficial,”
Sengoku told reporters this morning. “I believe that China has
many things to think about in the wake of the release.”  Japan is China’s second-biggest trading partner after the
U.S., with two-way commerce in the first seven months of the
year rising 25 percent from the same period in 2009 to $65.2
billion, Chinese customs data show. China is Japan’s largest
trading partner, buying 10.2 trillion yen ($121 billion) of the
nation’s goods and services last year.  China is tightening inspections of shipments to and from
Japan causing delays for car parts and machinery deliveries,
possibly in response to the diplomatic friction, the Asahi
newspaper reported today, without citing anyone.  Japan has “severely infringed” on China’s territorial
sovereignty and the personal rights of Chinese citizens, Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman  Jiang Yu  said on Sept. 25, according to the
state-run Xinhua news agency. China has the right to seek an
apology, she said.  ‘No Intention Whatsoever’  “I have no intention whatsoever of accepting” such a
demand, Kyodo News quoted Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  as
saying yesterday. “The Senkaku islands are Japan’s own
territory.”  The decision by prosecutors to release the captain, citing
Japan-China ties as a contributing factor, drew criticism from
ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  lawmakers as well as opposition
politicians.  “The only thing that can be said about the judgment is
that it was extremely regrettable,” 73 DPJ legislators
including  Yoichi Kaneko  and  Jin Matsubara  said in a joint
statement today. The group “strongly supports” the rejection
of any compensation for China.  Nobuteru Ishihara , secretary-general of the opposition
Liberal Democratic Party, yesterday on NHK Television called the
release “totally unacceptable.” He said he would summon
officials to testify in parliament.  Local editorials also questioned the outcome.  Japan ‘Gives In’  “The decision gave the impression that the Japanese
government had given in and failed to stick to its original
stance,” the Yomiuri newspaper, Japan’s largest daily, said in
a Sept. 25  commentary .  The trawler and crew were seized after the boat collided
with the two Coast Guard vessels on Sept. 7 near the  islands .
Japan released the 14 crew members and allowed the boat to leave
on Sept. 13.  China cut off ministerial talks with Japan and Premier  Wen Jiabao  last week said there would be further retaliation unless
the captain, Zhan Qixiong, was freed. China last week detained
and is questioning four Japanese employees of construction
company Fujita Corp. for allegedly videotaping military targets.  The diplomatic row is the most serious since 2005, when
thousands of Chinese protested Japanese textbooks that
downplayed the nation’s wartime atrocities. The captain’s
detention sparked a Sept. 18 protest outside Japan’s embassy in
Beijing that was more tightly controlled by police than those
five years ago, when demonstrators threw rocks at the consulate
in Shanghai.  China surpassed Japan as the world’s second-largest economy
last quarter. The Japanese nominal gross domestic product for
the second quarter totaled $1.288 trillion, less than China’s
$1.337 trillion, according to Japanese government statistics.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Takashi Hirokawa  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  