-- Japan Said to Consider Up to $55 Billion Extra Stimulus as Recovery Slows
-- B y   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-09-27T09:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/japan-said-to-consider-up-to-55-billion-extra-stimulus-as-recovery-slows.html
Japan is considering a stimulus
package of as much as 4.6 trillion yen ($54.6 billion) that will
be funded with existing revenue, a government official said as
policy makers seek to shore up the nation’s recovery  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration will aim to avoid
increasing issuance of government bonds, and pay for the package
by allocating higher-than-forecast tax revenue and left over
funds from the 2009 budget, the official said on condition of
anonymity. Savings on debt-interest costs from a slide in bond
yields will also be tapped, the person said.  The plan comes as evidence mounts of the economic damage of
the yen’s climb to the highest level in 15 years, with figures
today showing the smallest gain in exports this year. Economy
Minister  Banri Kaieda  said additional liquidity injections by
the Bank of Japan could be effective in influencing the yen,
signaling rising pressure on the bank to do more. BOJ Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  said he’s ready to act if needed.  “There’s growing concern that boosts from previous
stimulus measures are fading,” said  Hiroshi Miyazaki , chief
economist at Shinkin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “Without an
additional stimulus, we’ll continue to see a recovery with
little contribution from the domestic economy.”  Japan’s stocks halted a three-day slump, helped in part by
U.S. economic data signaling a gain in capital spending. The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 1.4 percent to 9,603.14. The
yen traded at 84.21 per dollar at 5:24 p.m. in Tokyo, less than
2 percent from the 15-year high of 82.88 reached on Sept. 15.  GDP Slowing  The official didn’t say what measures will be included in
the stimulus, which comes after Kan had already unveiled a 915
billion yen plan to address slowing growth. Gross domestic
product expanded at a 1.5 percent annual pace last quarter, down
from 5 percent in the first three months of the year.  Vice Finance Minister  Mitsuru Sakurai , speaking in Tokyo
today, underscored that the administration wants to avoid
boosting bond sales for the extra budget; Japan is already
struggling to contain the world’s largest public debt, nearing
double the size of GDP. The fiscal situation is in an
“emergency state,” Vice Finance Minister  Fumihiko Igarashi 
said.  The package may use 2 trillion yen from more-than-forecast
tax revenue, 1 trillion yen from savings on debt servicing, and
1.6 trillion yen from the budget for the fiscal year through
March 2010, the government official said. The Nikkei newspaper
reported the 4.6 trillion yen plan earlier, citing  Koichiro Gemba , the head of the Democratic Party of Japan’s policy board.  BOJ Pressure  With limited scope for net increases in fiscal spending,
the government has pressed the central bank to step up its
campaign to end deflation. Sakurai told reporters that the BOJ
could expand its bond purchases beyond the current 1.8 trillion
yen monthly target. He added that specific measures are up to
the bank.  Shirakawa said at a press briefing after meeting with
business executives in Osaka that the bank has no preconceptions
about future policy steps. He noted that bond purchases are one
tool with which to provide liquidity.  “We will watch how the yen’s strength is affecting the
economy and if it becomes a downside risk, we will take action
in a timely and appropriate manner,” Shirakawa said. The BOJ
board is next scheduled to meet Oct. 4-5.  The stimulus effort comes after business leaders urged the
government to widen efforts to safeguard the recovery from
Japan’s deepest postwar recession. A central bank report due for
release in two days may show the smallest improvement in
sentiment among large manufacturers in six quarters, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Twin Task  “They have the difficult task of improving productivity in
the economy at the same time they need to take measures to
control the budget deficit,”  Naoyuki Shinohara , a deputy
managing director at the International Monetary Fund and former
Japanese vice finance minister, said in an interview in Kuala
Lumpur, where he’s attending a conference.  Japan’s economic outlook is “anemic,” Nouriel Roubini,
the New York University professor and economist, said at the
same conference today.  The central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate at 0.1
percent this year and expanded a bank-loan program by 20
trillion yen to a total of 30 trillion yen.  The BOJ may revise down its economic assessment when it
releases its latest outlook on Oct. 28, and a further loosening
of credit could be announced then, said  Takehiro Sato , Japan
chief economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Kan’s move to add to his previous stimulus may be a tack to
heal divisions in the ruling party exposed by this month’s
leadership battle. Kan defeated rival  Ichiro Ozawa , who
advocated a larger aid package and publicly called for selling
the yen, which the administration did the day after the Sept. 14
party vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kyoko Shimodoi  in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  