-- Japanese Bond Risk Rises on Takefuji Bankruptcy Concern, Swap Prices Show
-- B y   J u n g m i n   H o n g
-- 2010-09-27T02:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/japanese-bond-risk-rises-on-takefuji-bankruptcy-concern-swap-prices-show.html
The cost of protecting Japanese
bonds from default headed for its highest in more than two weeks
after a newspaper said Takefuji Corp., the nation’s third-
biggest consumer lender, may file for bankruptcy protection.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index of credit-default swaps rose
2 basis points to 101 basis points as of 10:00 a.m. in Tokyo,
according to Morgan Stanley. The risk benchmark is headed for
its highest since it traded at 102.8 basis points on Sept. 10,
according to CMA in New York.  “The news about Takefuji appears to have spurred concern
over other consumer finance companies in the index,” said
 Fumihito Gotoh , head of Japan credit research in Tokyo at UBS
Securities Japan Ltd.  Takefuji , with 430 billion yen ($5.1 billion) in
 liabilities  as of June 30, is in final talks to file for
bankruptcy at the Tokyo District Court, the Nikkei newspaper
reported today, without saying where it obtained the
information. Japan’s consumer lenders are battling to survive
after a 2006 crackdown on coercive lending practices and tighter
laws forced them to repay billions of dollars in overcharged
interest.  Calls to the Tokyo headquarters of Takefuji for comment
weren’t immediately answered.  While Takefuji is not in the iTraxx Japan index, peers
including Acom Co. and Promise Co. are components, according to
 Markit’s website .  Asia Risk Declines  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan declined 5 basis points to 118 as of
9:34 a.m. in Singapore, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
show. The index is on course for its lowest since it traded at
115.3 basis points on Sept. 17, CMA prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 5 basis points to
115.5 as of 10:06 a.m. in Sydney, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc. The index is on track for the lowest since Sept. 17 when it
was at 111.5 basis points, according to CMA.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at 
 jhong47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  