-- Abbas Withholds Reaction as Jewish Settlers Resume West Bank Construction
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2010-09-27T17:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/jewish-settlers-start-west-bank-construction-as-abbas-withholds-reaction.html
Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  said he would confer with other Arab leaders
before reacting to the end of Israel’s partial 10-month freeze
on settlement construction and the resumption of building in the
West Bank by Jewish settlers.  “We would have liked to see a moratorium that lasts
another three or four months, but we won’t have rapid
reaction,” Abbas said in Paris after meeting French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy , adding that he plans to meet with the Arab
League on Oct. 4 to discuss the future of peace talks. “The
settlement activity must stop,” he said.  Israeli building crews began work at settlements including
Ariel, Oranit, Tekoa, Neve Daniel and Adam, according to  Naftali Bennett , director-general of the Yesha Council, which represents
the 300,000 settlers in the West Bank. U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  and United Nations Secretary General  Ban Ki-moon 
expressed regret that Israel didn’t extend the moratorium on
settlement construction.  Abbas, who in the past said he wouldn’t be able to carry on
with peace talks that began on Sept. 2 if Israel continued
building settlements, today said he will confer with Arab
leaders to “clear up our position.” Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  had said his government didn’t plan to
continue the freeze.  ‘Stamp of Approval’  “Abbas has given the U.S. sponsors an extra week to try to
save the talks,” said Naji Shurab, a political scientist at al-
Azhar University in Gaza City. “He doesn’t want to walk out and
he needs the Arab League to give him a stamp of approval to keep
talking with Israel.”  The move by Abbas “gives the U.S. mediators more time to
desperately keep these talks on track,”  Jonathan Spyer , a
political scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya
near Tel Aviv, said in a telephone interview.  Netanyahu said, “I hope that President Abbas will continue
the talks and continue with me the path to peace that we began
three weeks ago,” according to a text message sent to
journalists from his office minutes after the midnight deadline
that ended the freeze.  Clinton was “disappointed” that the partial freeze wasn’t
extended and sent special Middle East envoy  George Mitchell  back
to the region late today “to sort with parties about where to
go from here,” State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley 
told reporters in New York. Ban also said he was disappointed,
according to a statement issued by his office.  Sarkozy’s Criticism  Sarkozy was critical of the ending of the freeze and said
he planned to call Netanyahu later today. “I deplore the
decision to resume settlement construction just as the talks
were finally and concretely under way,” he said after meeting
Abbas.  The French president said Netanyahu, Abbas and Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  would meet in Paris next month to
prepare for the next European Union-Mediterranean summit in
November.  Netanyahu said in a statement that he is willing to
continue uninterrupted contacts over the next few days to find a
way to allow peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians to
move forward.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  met today in Tel Aviv
with  Tony Blair , the Middle East coordinator for the so-called
Quartet of powers supporting the peace talks, which includes the
U.S., the UN, Russia and the European Union, his office said.  Work Limited  Today’s construction work appeared to be limited to a
handful of the 120 settlements across the West Bank. Bennett
said many building companies aren’t working during the Jewish
holidays this week, which conclude on Sept. 30. Another hurdle
to wide-scale construction is that contractors are reticent to
work on projects that could be further postponed, Bennett said.  Construction will be “ramped up gradually,” Bennett said.
Settlers have the necessary permits to build about 1,500 homes
and the government could halt further building by denying
approval, he said.  Clinton spoke yesterday with Netanyahu and Blair. Mitchell
and U.S. Assistant Secretary of State  Jeff Feltman  conferred
with chief Palestinian negotiator  Saeb Erakat .  The freeze, declared by Netanyahu in November in what he
said was a bid to bring Palestinians to the negotiating table,
excluded about 3,000 homes as well as some public buildings.  Environment Minister  Gilad Erdan , a Likud member, said on
Sept. 25 that the prime minister wouldn’t have a Cabinet
majority to extend the freeze and urged the Palestinians not to
use construction in the settlements as an excuse to abandon
talks.  Illegal to UN  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The
United Nations says settlements are illegal, and the
International Committee of the  Red Cross  says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said they aren’t
legitimate.  Israel says settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 