-- Jordan Seeking Bidders for `Master Plan' on Gas Supplies, Minister Says
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2010-09-27T10:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/jordan-seeks-bidders-to-draw-up-master-plan-to-meet-gas-supply-needs.html
Jordan is seeking bidders to draw up
a strategy to meet its rising needs for natural gas and is
exploring options for importing more of the fuel from Egypt,
Qatar and Algeria, the Jordanian energy minister said.  The government has approved a tender for consultants to
prepare “a gas master plan” for Jordan,  Khalid Irani  said in a
telephone interview from Amman yesterday. He declined to give
further details about the tender or its possible timing.  Jordan, which imports almost all of its energy, forecasts
that domestic fuel consumption will increase to 10 million
metric tons of oil equivalent by 2020, compared with its current
level of 7.5 million tons. The government estimates that
electricity demand will almost double over the same period to
5,200 megawatts.  As part of efforts to meet these rising needs, Irani
expects to travel to Egypt, “hopefully next week or the one
after,” to negotiate an increase in purchases of Egyptian gas.
“We are discussing, and we hope to reach an agreement,” he said.  The minister plans in mid-October to visit Qatar, home to
the world’s third-largest gas reserves, to discuss buying
liquefied natural gas. “We will be discussing the availability
and other details,” Irani said.  Jordanian officials have also talked with Algerian
counterparts about the possibility of importing gas from that
North African country, he said.  Jordan aims next year to increase imports of Egyptian gas
for use in its power plants to 330 million cubic meters, from
240 million cubic meters, Irani said in an interview on July 14.  The two countries plan also to build a pipeline network to
boost gas supplies to Jordanian homes and industries, he said at
that time. Jordan began importing gas from Egypt in 2003 through
a link across the Gulf of Aqaba that also feeds Syria and
Lebanon.  Jordan hopes to attract $14 billion in investments in
energy infrastructure. The government wants to generate more of
its energy from local sources, in part by building a nuclear
plant and developing oil shale and renewable energy projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nayla Razzouk  in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at  sev@bloomberg.net  