-- JPMorgan Based Foreclosures on Faulty Documents, Lawyers Claim
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-09-27T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/jpmorgan-based-home-foreclosures-on-faulty-court-documents-lawyers-claim.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co . faces a legal
challenge next month that could cast doubt on thousands of
foreclosures after a mortgage executive at the bank said she
didn’t verify documents used to justify home seizures.  Lawyers for a Palm Beach County, Florida, homeowner asked a
judge to throw out a foreclosure as a penalty for misleading the
court, according to attorney Tom Ice of  Ice Legal PA . They’re
citing a May 17 deposition in which the JPMorgan executive said
she signed thousands of affidavits and documents supporting the
New York-based bank’s claims without personally checking loan
records. The court is scheduled to hear arguments Oct. 19.  The Chase Home Finance operation supervisor, Beth Ann
Cottrell, said in May she was among eight managers who together
sign about 18,000 documents a month, according to a  transcript 
of her sworn deposition provided by Ice. Asked how they were
prepared, she said she relied on other people at the firm.  “My review is more or less signing the document unless
it’s questionable,” she said. That means, “somebody has a
question and brings it to me and says, ‘Beth, can you take a
look at this?’”  Inaccurate statements by banks in foreclosure documents may
give borrowers who have lost their homes a legal basis to
challenge the seizures, derailing resales and casting doubts on
property titles. A Florida court sanctioned  Ally Financial
Inc. ’s  GMAC Mortgage  unit for faulty affidavits in 2006, and the
firm suspended evictions in 23 states this month after finding
employees still signing affidavits without checking the data.  Titles in Doubt  JPMorgan spokesman  Tom Kelly  declined requests for comment.
Cottrell didn’t return phone calls to her office requesting
comment. A lawyer representing her at the deposition, Joseph
Mancilla of the Florida Default Law Group PL, didn’t return
calls. Cottrell isn’t named as a defendant.  Cottrell signed the affidavit at issue in the case, dated
June 2009, while at her previous employer, an outside servicing
firm working for JPMorgan, according to court documents. When
signing documents there for the JPMorgan unit, she used the
title “assistant secretary and vice president” of Chase Home
Finance, according to the transcript. She became a JPMorgan
employee about three months after signing the affidavit.
Document signers sometimes endorse affidavits on behalf of other
firms as a way to streamline the foreclosure process, said
Dustin Zacks, an attorney at Ice’s firm.  JPMorgan was the third-largest U.S. servicer of home
mortgages as of June 30, with $1.35 trillion or almost 13
percent of the market, according to industry newsletter Inside
Mortgage Finance. Ally is the fifth-biggest mortgage servicer,
with $349.1 billion. The other three in the top five are  Bank of
America Corp. , Wells Fargo & Co., and Citigroup Inc.  Foreclosures Averted  Servicers perform billing and collections on home loans.
When borrowers default, the firms handle the foreclosure
process. Affidavits lay the legal foundation for a foreclosure
by attesting that the borrower is delinquent and that the lender
is entitled to seize the home. Details of the JPMorgan case were
reported earlier last week by the Financial Times.  Lawyers in Florida and New York, among other states, have
halted foreclosures and evictions by showing affidavits were
faulty. Attorneys general in Texas, Iowa and Illinois have
started investigations into mortgage practices at GMAC Mortgage
following last week’s revelations. California has ordered the
company to prove its foreclosures are legal or halt them.  If the documents are shown to be false after a home has
already been resold by a bank, that casts doubt on who is the
rightful owner, said O. Max Gardner III, an attorney at law firm
 Gardner & Gardner PLLC  in Shelby, North Carolina, who has
represented homeowners in fighting foreclosures and has cases
pending against JPMorgan.  Title Insurers  “I’m sure a lot of title insurance companies are concerned
about the potential liability right now,” as borrowers
challenge how banks made statements, he said. “The judges could
absolutely hold the bank and attorneys in contempt.”  U.S. home seizures reached a record for the third time in
five months in August as lenders completed the foreclosure
process for thousands of delinquent owners, according to
RealtyTrac Inc.  Ice, the founding partner of his foreclosure-defense law
firm in Royal Palm Beach, Florida, said some lenders are
accepting voluntary dismissal of their cases.  During the deposition, Cottrell said a staff of in-house
specialists scrutinize loan documents and prepare affidavits,
the transcript shows. If they have difficulties or questions,
they come to her. She signs in a notary’s presence, she said.  ‘No Knowledge’  During questioning by Ice  lawyer  Zacks, Cottrell said she
had worked at Chase Home Finance for about eight months,
according to the transcript.  “As to everything in the affidavit, did you have personal
knowledge?” Zacks asked.  “My own personal knowledge, no,” Cottrell answered.  “You stated ‘That plaintiff is entitled to enforce the
note and mortgage,’” Zacks said. “Again, did you have personal
knowledge of that?”  “No knowledge,” she answered.  Florida Attorney General  William McCollum  is  investigating 
three law firms that represent loan servicers in foreclosures,
and are alleged to have submitted fraudulent documents to the
courts, according to an Aug. 10 statement. The firms handled
about 80 percent of foreclosure cases in the state, according to
a letter from U.S. Representative  Alan Grayson , a Florida
Democrat.  Judges overseeing foreclosures in the wake of the housing
crisis are growing skeptical of banks, said  Christopher L. Peterson , a professor at the University of Utah’s  S.J. Quinney
College of Law . A surge in proceedings has helped expose a
variety of paperwork lapses, he said in an interview.  “Early in the process the judges were very cavalier and
they just took the financiers’ word,” Peterson said. “Now
there are enough disputes out there about ownership of loans
that the judges are starting to feel like they need to hold the
financial institutions to the basic rules of evidence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 