-- Julius Baer Sets Up Russia Desk in Singapore, Joining UBS, BSI
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2010-09-27T01:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/julius-baer-sets-up-russia-desk-in-singapore-joining-ubs-credit-suisse.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. , the 120-
year-old Swiss private bank, set up a desk in Singapore to serve
wealthy Russians seeking to invest in Asia, home to the world’s
two fastest-growing major economies.  Zurich-based Julius Baer expects the Russia desk to
generate growth in client funds similar to that of Asia, said
 Tom Meier , who heads the bank’s Asia and Middle East operations.
The bank has forecast 10 percent to 20 percent annual growth in 
net money inflows from the region, compared with the global rate
of 4 percent to 6 percent.  Julius Baer will compete in Singapore with bigger rivals
 UBS AG  and Credit Suisse Group AG, which already have Russian
desks there, said Meier. Assets managed in the region on behalf
of Russians may more than double in five years to at least $50
billion, according to  Roman Scott , a Singapore-based managing
director at investment firm Calamander Capital.  “Initially, Switzerland and London played a very important
role as a banking center to manage Russian assets; Singapore is
now really competing with these other centers,” Meier said in a
Sept. 15 interview. “We’re in a very fortunate position because
this money seeks returns and participation in Asian growth.”  Wealthy Russians’ assets were estimated at $230 billion in
2008 and are expected to grow between 10 to 15 percent a year
until 2012, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Ekaterina
Lazorina, a Moscow-based partner at PWC, said Asia is gradually
becoming a more popular destination for rich Russians’ money as
banks step up efforts to woo them from Hong Kong and Singapore.  ‘East is Rising’  “They asked me: ‘What is happening with Switzerland, why
are you leaving?’,” said Anjela Snkhtchian, who moved to
Singapore in July to head Julius Baer’s Russian desk after 10
years in Zurich serving Eastern European clients. “Switzerland
is still good, but I told them the East is rising.”  Bilateral trade between Singapore and Russia grew fourfold
between 2002 and 2008 to about S$3.8 billion ($2.9 billion),
according the website of the  Russia-Singapore Business Forum .
Executives attending the annual gathering in Singapore this week
include  German Gref , chief executive officer of OAO Sberbank,
Russia’s largest lender, and  Ruben Vardanian , head of Troika
Dialog, the country’s oldest brokerage.  Mikhail Slipenchuk , CEO of Metropol Group, a Russian
investment conglomerate, said his company is expanding in Asia
and he is considering whether to manage some of his personal
wealth in Singapore.  “It’s my first steps here,” said Slipenchuk, who is a
client of two private banks in Europe and at least one other in
Switzerland. “For me, private banks are like a door to the
commercial banks.”  Lugano, Switzerland-based BSI Bank transferred a banker
from Zurich to Singapore in March to service Eastern European
clients, with a focus on Russians.  Russians have “discovered Singapore as a potential hub, as
a residence, as an investment and business hub,” said  Hanspeter Brunner , head of BSI Bank’s Asian operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joyce Koh  in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  