-- Knight Capital Urges Short-Selling Leniency for U.S. Stock Market Makers
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-09-27T17:53:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/knight-capital-urges-short-selling-leniency-for-u-s-stock-market-makers.html
Regulators should consider giving
market makers more latitude to sell stock short to ease the
burden of increased obligations that may be imposed on those
firms, according to an executive at  Knight Capital Group Inc.   Market makers sometimes can’t sell stock in response to
demand because some securities that aren’t actively traded are
hard to borrow,  Jamil Nazarali , global head of the electronic
trading group at Knight Capital Group Inc., said at a Security
Traders Association conference in Washington on Sept. 24.  “More latitude around being able to short stock” would
offer market makers relief, Nazarali said. Brokers that make
markets by providing bids and offers for investors to trade with
should be allowed to maintain short sales for longer than the
current period, he said. In a short sale, borrowed shares are
sold with the aim of profiting by later buying back the stock at
a lower price.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is considering
new obligations and benefits for market makers to ensure that
sufficient liquidity is available in times of volatility. SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has said the agency may give market
makers new benefits that will entice them to accept heftier
commitments following the May 6 plunge that briefly erased $862
billion in U.S. equity value in less than 20 minutes.  “When an investor wants to buy certain stocks, market
makers can’t always sell them short” to meet that need because
they must provide the borrowed shares even in less actively
traded stocks, Nazarali said. “In these thin names, that’s when
you need a market maker the most.”  Motors Liquidation  For instance, last year Knight wanted to sell short  Motors
Liquidation Co. , the firm formed to liquidate the assets of
automaker General Motors Corp., which filed for bankruptcy
protection in 2009. Knight couldn’t because that would have
required closing out the positions by delivering shares prior to
the start of trading on the sixth day after the transaction,
which it couldn’t do, Nazarali said.  Motors Liquidation  traded  at around $1 during the middle of
last year even though the equity shareholders would eventually
be wiped out, Nazarali said. Because Knight and other market
makers couldn’t short the shares, they weren’t able to push the
price lower. The shares trade for 35 cents now.  Knight, Getco LLC and Virtu Financial LLC in July  urged  the
SEC to adopt stricter quoting requirements for market makers
than currently exist on most exchanges. New obligations should
require market makers to quote at the national best bid or
offer, which represents the highest price at which investors can
sell shares and the lowest at which they can buy, a certain
portion of the day, Nazarali said. The three firms also said
market makers should submit orders at several price levels.  Investor Costs  High-frequency trading firms RGM Advisors LLC, Allston
Trading LLC, Hudson River Trading LLC and Quantlab Financial LLC
countered on Sept. 14 that these requirements would raise costs
for investors such as mutual funds without preventing market
plunges.  Market makers who meet certain quoting requirements now
receive an exemption from the obligation to locate shares for
stocks they want to sell short and more-lenient terms than other
investors for when they must deliver shares for bearish trades.  William Neuberger , global co-head of electronic trading at
Morgan Stanley in New York, said at the conference that altering
the obligations and benefits for market makers won’t ensure that
they stick around in difficult times to buy when investors flood
them with sell orders.  “If something’s happening in the world, why should they
buy stock at the wrong price when things are coming down, down,
down?” he said. “Even doing that doesn’t mean there won’t be
another crash. It’ll just be a slower crash. They’re going to
take the fine, basically, and live.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 