-- Kim Jong Il's Son Appointed General Before North Korea Meeting
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   J o h n   S i m p s o n
-- 2010-09-28T02:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/n-korea-leader-s-son-appointed-general-ahead-of-party-meeting.html
Kim Jong Il ’s youngest son was
named a general, signaling the start of a possible power
transfer in North Korea to a man said to be in his late 20s who
the regime has never previously mentioned in public.  Kim Jong Un  was one of six people given the rank ahead of
the biggest meeting of North Korea ruling Workers’ Party in 30
years, which starts today, the official Korean Central News
Agency reported. The orders were issued yesterday by Kim Jong Il,
who called on military commanders to “remain true to the
party’s leadership in the future,” the state media said,
without mentioning the family link.  The junior Kim’s debut supports speculation of a leadership
handover that has been growing since the 68-year-old Kim Jong Il
reportedly suffered a stroke in 2008. Kim Jong Il’s sister, Kim
Kyong Hui, was also promoted to the rank of general, KCNA said,
in what may be part of “contingency plans” should Kim Jong Un
prove unsuitable, said  Donald Gregg , a former U.S. ambassador to
South Korea.  “It’s the first step forward in what will be a step-by-
step process,” Gregg said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “It would be almost impossible to give Kim Jong Un
full powers since he is untested.”  Kim Kyong Hui, 64, is a member of the central committee of
the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea in charge of light industry,
according to South Korea’s Unification Ministry. Her husband,
 Jang Song Thaek , 68, was named vice chairman of the National
Defense Commission in June, making him North Korea’s second-most
powerful official.  ‘Watching Developments’  Kim Jong Il is the chairman of the National Defense
Commission, North Korea’s highest government agency, and the
Supreme Commander of the Korean People’s Army.  “The United States is watching developments in North Korea
carefully,”  Kurt Campbell , assistant secretary of state for
East Asia, said yesterday in a conference call from New York
after the KCNA announcement. “But frankly, it’s too early to
tell, in terms of next steps, what’s going on inside the
country’s leadership.”  The Worker’s Party convenes today in Pyongyang to choose
its “supreme leadership body,” KCNA has said. The last such
gathering in 1980 solidified Kim Jong Il’s position as heir to
his father, North Korean founder  Kim Il Sung .  The congress is being held behind schedule after North
Korea said in June it will open in “early September.” The
delay has sparked speculation Kim Jong Il’s health may be
worsening.  Hasty  “It seems a little hasty for Kim Jong Il to be revealing
his son at such a young age, but he must have felt time is
running out,” said  Kim Yong Hyun , professor of North Korean
studies at Seoul-based Dongguk University. “He may have his
sister and brother-in-law act as his son’s shield until Kim Jong
Un proves his leadership.”  Little is known about Kim Jong Un. He attended the
International  School of Berne  in Switzerland, according to media
including the Seoul-based Dong-A Ilbo newspaper.  Kim Jong Il made his second trip this year to China in late
August in what analysts said was an effort to win the
endorsement of his closest ally for a power transfer to his son.
Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  lauded the party congress as “a
political event of great significance,” KCNA said Sept. 2.  North Korea may also use the party gathering to announce
new policies to reinvigorate the country’s faltering economy,
which was dealt a further blow this year after floods wiped out
crops and damaged houses.  Economy Shrank  North Korea’s economy shrank 0.9 percent to 24.7 trillion
won in 2009 after the United Nations toughened sanctions against
the country for its second nuclear test in May last year,
according to the Bank of Korea in Seoul. The country, which
relies on outside handouts to feed its 24 million people, saw
its shortages of goods worsen after a botched currency
revaluation late last year.  Kim’s regime also faces stricter U.S. financial sanctions
after it was accused of torpedoing a South Korean warship in
March. South Korea, the North’s No. 2 trading partner, cut off
most trade after the March 26 sinking of the warship Cheonan
that killed 46 sailors.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story
Bomi Lim at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  