-- Natural-Gas Futures Decline After Storm Threat Eases in the Gulf of Mexico
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2010-09-27T17:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/natural-gas-futures-decline-after-storm-threat-eases-in-the-gulf-of-mexico.html
Natural gas futures fell for a
second day in New York on easing concern that storms will
threaten energy pipelines and platforms in the Gulf of Mexico
before the end of the Atlantic hurricane season.  Tropical Storm Matthew dissipated over the weekend after
reaching Central America. An area of disorganized thunderstorms
in the northwestern Caribbean Sea has a 30 percent chance of
development over the next 48 hours, according to the National
Hurricane Center. Gas has dropped 33 percent this year on a
stockpile surplus and tepid demand from industrial users.  “This market has had weak fundamentals for a long time,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst with Tradition Energy in
Stamford, Connecticut. “Without a storm threat on the horizon
or some kind of seasonal demand, the market is going to be under
pressure.”  Natural gas for October delivery fell 12.4 cents, or 3.2
percent, to $3.757 per million British thermal units at 12:57
p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange.  The October contract expires tomorrow. The more active
November futures fell 12.2 cents, or 3 percent, to $3.887 per
million Btu.  Hurricanes have not resulted in significant disruptions to
Gulf gas production this year. The National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration last month reduced its 2010 Atlantic
hurricane forecast to 14 to 20 named storms from an earlier
estimate of 14 to 23.  Gas may decline to $3.70 before meeting resistance,
McGillian said.  “I don’t think a steep slide is in the cards,” he said.
“There’s a lack of conviction on the part of sellers to drive
gas sharply lower.”  Mild Weather  Commodity Weather Group, a Bethesda, Maryland-based private
forecasting firm, predicted mostly below-normal temperatures in
the eastern U.S. from Oct. 2 to Oct. 6. The high temperature in
New York on Oct. 2 may be 66 degrees Fahrenheit (19 degrees
Celsius), three degrees below average, according to
 AccuWeather.com .  The cooler-than-normal weather “in the south and the east
means that one won’t have to use as much air conditioning,”  Joe Bastardi , a senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in State
College, Pennsylvania, said in a note to clients.  About 23 percent of U.S. electricity is generated using
natural gas, according to the Energy Department.  U.S. gas inventories in underground storage rose 2.2
percent to 3.34 trillion cubic feet in the week ended Sept. 17,
6.2 percent above the five-year average and 5 percent below last
year’s level.  Rising Demand  Gas prices may rise in October in anticipation of stockpile
declines as consumers heat their homes and businesses during the
winter, said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst with Citi Futures
Perspective in New York, in a note to clients.  “We still see potential for a seasonal rally in prices
from current levels, given how the market is now trading at a
discount to a year ago,” Evans said.  Inventories will peak at 3.687 trillion cubic feet before
cold-weather demand prompts utilities to pull gas from storage,
the department predicted in its monthly  Short-Term Energy
Outlook  on Sept. 8. Stockpiles rose to a record 3.837 trillion
cubic feet last November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Buurma  in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  