-- NBC Universal Plans Debt to Pay for Sale to Comcast
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2010-09-27T19:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/nbc-universal-may-sell-debt-in-four-part-benchmark-offering.html
NBC Universal Inc. plans to sell
$5.1 billion of debt to help pay for its majority purchase by
Comcast Corp., according to a person familiar with the offering,
in what would be the third-biggest U.S. debt issue this year.  General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal is selling the notes
to raise part of the $9.1 billion it must contribute toward the
deal, Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE said today in a statement,
which didn’t specify the size or timing of the offering.  The media company is selling the bonds as investment-grade
corporate borrowing costs hover near the lowest on record. The
planned $28 billion combination would give Comcast, the largest
U.S. cable company, control of NBC Universal’s TV network and
broadcast stations, as well as cable channels such as USA
Network and Bravo.  “It’s no surprise that NBC can tap the market for that
size when I think about the deals we’ve been seeing,” said
 Timothy Cox , an executive director of debt capital markets at
Mizuho Securities USA in New York.  “Buyers have a ton of money
to put to work and they’re looking for spread.”  The four-part offering comprises $900 million of notes due
in 2014 that may pay 145 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and $1 billion of debt due in 2016 that may pay a
spread of 160 basis points, said the person who declined to be
identified as terms aren’t set.  Debt Rankings  NBC Universal is also selling $2 billion of notes maturing
in 2021 that may yield 185 basis points more than benchmarks and
$1.2 billion of bonds due in 2041 at a spread of 225 basis
points, the person said. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Moody’s Investors Service assigned the notes a rank of
Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade, and Standard & Poor’s
rated the debt BBB+, one step higher, the credit rating
companies said today in separate statements.  “It’s pretty cheap money for a triple B company,” Cox
said. “Can you imagine borrowing under 3 percent to buy a
home?”  Comcast is expected to complete its purchase of 51 percent
of NBC Universal by year-end, GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said in an internal memo Sept. 24.  NBC Universal will pay 101 cents on the dollar to redeem
the debt if the sale to Comcast isn’t completed by June 10,
2011, the person said.  Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase &
Co., Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. are managing the
sale, the person said.  Kraft, Berkshire  The offering follows NBC Universal’s $4 billion sale of 5-,
10- and 30-year debt in April, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds from that transaction were also to be used
to help pay for the acquisition by Comcast.  The latest transaction will be the largest since Kraft
Foods Inc.’s $9.5 billion sale on Feb. 4 and Berkshire Hathaway
Inc.’s $8 billion issue the same day, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Kraft, the Northfield, Illinois-based maker of Oreos and
Cheez Whiz, sold debt to finance its acquisition of Cadbury
Plc., and  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire planned to use proceeds to
finance part of its purchase of railroad Burlington Northern
Santa Fe Corp.  Investment-grade yields reached 3.76 percent on Sept. 24
after touching 3.72 percent on Sept. 22, the lowest since daily
records began in October 1986, the index data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 