-- Nestle to Develop Products to Treat Diabetes, Obesity
-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 2010-09-27T14:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/nestle-to-create-health-division-to-make-personalized-nutrition-products.html
Nestle SA , the world’s largest food
company, will set up a unit to develop personalized nutrition
products to treat conditions such as diabetes, obesity or
cardiovascular disease, aiming to lead a new industry.  Luis Cantarell , who leads Nestle’s business in the
Americas, will be chief executive officer of Nestle Health
Science SA, the Vevey, Switzerland-based maker of Nescafe coffee
said today in a  statement .  Nestle received  $28.3 billion  from Novartis AG in August
for a majority stake in the Alcon eye-care division. Cash from
the sale can help Nestle fund research and takeovers to become a
leader in foods targeted at health needs, surpassing  Groupe
Danone SA , said  Jean-Marie L’Home , an analyst at Aurel in Paris.  “Nestle’s cash and know-how really make it a powerful
machine,” said L’Home, who has a “hold”  recommendation  on the
stock. “Nestle will probably be the leader in this category
within the next few years.”  The manufacturer is establishing the new division as
regulators increase scrutiny of the food industry’s health-
benefits promotion.  Danone , whose medical-nutrition unit had
sales of 925 million euros ($1.2 billion) in 2009, withdrew
applications with the European Food Safety Authority in April
for its Actimel yogurt drinks’ health-claims labeling, saying it
wants clarity on rules.  Start-Up Date  Nestle Health Science will become operational on Jan. 1.
The company didn’t set any sales or earnings goals for the
division. The new unit will include Nestle’s existing health-
care  nutrition business , which had sales of 1.6 billion Swiss
francs ($1.6 billion) last year and is the second-largest such
operation after Abbott Laboratories, the manufacturer said.  “This is a new industry located in between food and
pharma,” and Nestle aims to expand as health-care spending
increases, Chairman  Peter Brabeck-Letmathe  said at a press
conference in Lausanne, Switzerland. With more than 1 billion
people worldwide classified as obese and chronic diseases
responsible for about 60 percent of deaths, “our health-care
system, which concentrates basically on treating sick people, is
not sustainable.”  Lagging Behind Targets  The existing nutrition unit, which includes businesses
shifting to the new division plus infant nutrition, the Jenny
Craig weight-loss service and products for athletes, has lagged
behind revenue and earnings  targets  set in 2006. Sales excluding
acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts rose 6.2 percent in
the first half, compared with a full-year goal of 10 percent.
The operating margin was 19 percent versus a 20 percent target.  Nandu Nandkishore , who became temporary head of the
nutrition unit when  Richard Laube  resigned last month, will
continue in that role once the health-science operations become
separate, Nestle said.  Chris Johnson , head of Nestle in Japan,
will succeed Cantarell in Nestle’s Americas post.  Nestle  rose  as much as 0.8 percent to 53.10 francs and was
up 0.4 percent as of 4:03 p.m. in Zurich trading. The stock has
gained 5.4 percent this year, valuing the company at 183.3
billion francs.  The health-science division will spend five years building
its product line, said Cantarell, a 58-year-old Spaniard who was
the first head of the nutrition unit.  “In 10 years, we will be the undisputed leader in this new
‘health science nutrition’ business,” Cantarell said at the
press conference.  ‘High-Profile’ Post  Cantarell’s new job is a “high-profile appointment that
will give the company real bite,” said Jon Cox, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets. “There’s increased regulatory pressure
on the food companies to back up their medical claims.”  Nestle’s Boost nutritional-supplement drinks, which compete
with Abbott’s Ensure brand, will be among operations shifting to
the new division. The health-science unit may make “small”
acquisitions to add products or distribution, Nestle Chief
Financial Officer  Jim Singh  said in an interview.  The Swiss manufacturer is buying a license for a product
from CM&D, a company it has invested in, he said. CM&D is
conducting clinical trials on a product that would reduce
phosphate levels in chronic kidney disease sufferers, which may
reduce the risk of heart attacks, according to Nestle.  Acquisition Strategy  The company bought Liverpool, England-based Vitaflo last
month, adding a maker of nutrition products tailored to people
with genetically acquired metabolic disorders.  Nestle has no intention of acquiring a pharmaceutical
maker, Brabeck-Letmathe said.  The company is also creating the Nestle Institute of Health
Sciences, which will be based at research partner Ecole
Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne. The institute’s head will be
 Emmanuel Baetge , former chief scientific officer of San Diego,
California-based ViaCyte, which is developing diabetes
treatments from stem cells.  Nestle established a research alliance with the EPFL in
2006. Nestle has donated 5 million francs a year to help the
Lausanne-based university study ways to improve children’s
cognitive development and prevent brain degeneration in the
elderly, and learn more about links between gastrointestinal
functions and the brain.  The company will  spend  as much as 500 million francs over
10 years to finance studies at the new institute, whose work
will help support the health-science division, Nestle Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Bulcke  said in an interview.  Nestle, which  owns  about 30 percent of French cosmetics
maker L’Oreal SA, is keeping the “status quo” in its
relationship with that company, Bulcke said.  The Swiss food manufacturer is forecasting a “small” net-
debt position at the end of this year, CFO Singh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Mulier  in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 