-- New Zealand's 10-Year Bond Yield Falls Below Australia's on Slowing Growth
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2010-09-27T01:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/new-zealand-s-10-year-bond-yield-falls-below-australia-s-on-slowing-growth.html
The yield on New Zealand’s 10-year
 government bonds  dropped below Australia’s for the first time in
two years on concern growth in the smaller nation will slow
further after the worst earthquake in 80 years.  The yield on benchmark New Zealand notes was 0.8 basis
point lower than for similar-dated Australian debt as of 1:30
p.m. in Wellington, after a government report last week showed
second-quarter  growth  was less than a third of the pace
economists forecast. The report added to the case for central
bank Governor  Alan Bollard  to keep borrowing costs unchanged
until 2011 after he paused Sept. 16 in raising interest rates.  “New Zealand’s Reserve Bank is well and truly out of play
for the rest of this year,” said  Khoon Goh , head of market
economics and strategy in Wellington at ANZ National Bank Ltd.,
New Zealand’s biggest lender. “Kiwi bond yields have gone quite
low and there’s potential they could go lower, particularly if
the market starts to look for more quantitative easing from the
U.S. Federal Reserve.”  Australian bonds fell this month on accelerating growth and
signs borrowing costs will rise, pushing the nation’s three-year
swap rates to the highest since 1994, relative to levels on
equivalent New Zealand debt.  The yield on New Zealand’s 10-year note was little changed
at 5.125 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
 fell  to 5.11 percent on Aug. 31, the least since April 2009.  Australia’s 10-year note yield advanced eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.133 percent.  Debt Sales  New Zealand’s benchmark yield is trading 27 basis points
higher than the  swap rate  of comparable maturity as increased
government sales damp demand for the bonds, Goh said. Swap rates
are fixed payments made to receive floating rates.  The New Zealand Debt Management Office accepted tenders for
an average of NZ$408 million ($300.3 million) in debt since its
Sept. 9 auction, compared to an average of NZ$222 million before
that since the start of the year.  “There’s strong demand but given the increased supply,
that’s partly what’s keeping bond yields where they are” on 10-
year notes, Goh said. “Swaps have traded through bonds because
the RBNZ has come out with a very dovish statement and the
markets are basically not pricing in hikes until the first
quarter of next year.”  The Sept. 4 earthquake probably will shave 0.4 percentage
point off growth in the third quarter and cost an estimated NZ$4
billion, the government said after the magnitude 7.0 temblor hit
the southern city of Christchurch.  The disaster “significantly disrupted economic activity and
is likely to continue to do so for some time yet,” central bank
Governor Bollard said in Wellington on Sept. 16 after leaving
the official cash rate at 3 percent.  “The pace and extent of further rate increases is likely to
be more moderate than projected” three months ago, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 