-- New York City to Replace Automatic Teacher Tenure With Performance System
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2010-09-27T20:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/new-york-city-to-replace-automatic-teacher-tenure-with-performance-system.html
New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  plans to overhaul how tenure is awarded in city
schools and institute a system that grants job security based on
performance.  Beginning this year, teachers will be rated on a four-tier
system, with those rated “effective” and “highly effective”
eligible for tenure after three years, the mayor’s office
announced in a statement  today .  “This will transform the tenure system from one in which
tenure is taken for granted, to one in which it must be earned
through effective performance in the classroom,” the mayor’s
office said in its statement.  Tenure currently is awarded at the discretion of principals
and school superintendents, said  Michael Mulgrew , president of
the United Federation of Teachers, a union with about 200,000
members, including secretaries and retired teachers. There are
about 80,000 active teachers in New York City schools, said
 Margie Feinberg , a spokeswoman for the district.  “Right now a principal can deny tenure to a teacher for
any reason,” Mulgrew said in an e-mail. “Most teachers would
welcome an objective tenure-granting process based on agreed-
upon standards.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent of Bloomberg News.  Tenure’s History  The tenure system was introduced to protect teachers from
dismissals based on their politics or beliefs, or the whim of a
principal, said Jeffrey Henig, a professor at Teachers College,
a unit of Columbia University in New York. In recent years
tenure has been criticized for protecting ineffectual teachers
in big city school districts, he said.  “In point of fact, the award of tenure was been automatic
or pretty close to universal in many systems,” Henig said.  Henig said more city school unions are willing to discuss
modifying tenure rules and he pointed to the example of
Washington, where in a new contract ratified in June,
ineffective teachers can be removed from the system.  “There is room for negotiated reforms of tenure, as long
as partners are sitting around a table and looking for common
ground and not just scoring rhetorical points,” Henig said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Staley  in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  