-- New Jersey Plans to Sell $1.4 Billion of Transportation Bonds in October
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-09-27T17:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/new-jersey-to-sell-1-4-billion-of-road-bonds-in-october-to-replenish-fund.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s administration intends to sell $1.4 billion in bonds
for the Transportation Trust Fund in October and is talking with
lawmakers in an effort to end resistance to the transaction,
Treasurer  Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff  said.  The bonds were initially scheduled for sale this month.
Democratic Senator  Paul Sarlo , co-chair of a committee that must
approve the deal, said last week he would withhold consideration
until  Christie , a Republican, presents a long-term plan for
replenishing the transportation trust fund, which is due to run
out of money for new projects next year.  “We’re working with the Legislature to answer their
questions and hopefully we’re going to move forward” in mid-
October, Sidamon-Eristoff told reporters today after speaking at
a conference organized by the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association in New York.  The delay comes as states and local governments face near-
record low interest rates in the municipal debt market. Tax-
exempt yields dropped 6 basis points to 2.61 percent last week,
three basis points above an all-time low set Aug. 25, according
to Municipal Market Advisors  data .  Interest Rates  Sidamon-Eristoff, a Christie appointee, said about $483
million of the deal will be used to refinance debt, allowing the
state to use the savings to borrow additional money for
roadwork. The remainder will be sold as taxable Build America
Bonds, he said. The state also plans to move ahead Sept. 29-30
with the sale of $663 million in general-obligation bonds for
refinancing, Sidamon-Eristoff said.  The treasurer declined to project how much in extra
borrowing costs the state may face if interest rates rise.  “I understand there’s been some movement in interest rates
but I don’t think anyone wants me or any other treasurer to be
out chasing interest rates,” he said. “We need to be more
deliberative.”  The Legislature’s  Joint Budget Oversight Committee  must
approve the refinancing portion of the sale before it can
proceed, according to documents presented at a Transportation
Trust Fund Authority meeting this month. The state can’t sell
the new-money portion without the refinancing, according to
 Derek Roseman , a spokesman for Sarlo.  Debt Payments  After this year, debt service on more than $12 billion in
outstanding bonds will consume the full $895 million in revenue
including gasoline taxes that is paid into the transportation
fund annually for the next 31 years, authority projections show.
Christie has said he’ll release a plan for replenishing the fund
in October.  “The administration has reached out to Senator Sarlo to
discuss his concerns, and he is hopeful that a path to a
permanent solution for the fund will be uncovered so much-needed
projects currently under way can continue,” Roseman said in an
e-mail.  New Jersey is the third-most indebted U.S. state, with
$37.7 billion in gross tax-supported debt outstanding, according
to Moody’s Investor Service’s 2010 State Debt Medians report.
Moody’s last week lowered its outlook on New Jersey’s bonds,
meaning a reduction is possible in the state’s credit rating,
now Aa2, the third-highest investment grade.  Sidamon-Eristoff said Moody’s decision not to lower the
rating is an endorsement of Christie’s efforts to right state
finances.  “From my perspective, the fact that they retained our
credit rating should be considered an endorsement of what we’re
trying to do,” Sidamon-Eristoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 