-- Newark Mayor Raises $40 Million So Far in Bid to Match Zuckerberg Donation
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-09-27T19:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/newark-s-booker-raises-40-million-in-plan-to-match-zuckerberg-s-donation.html
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  said he
has raised $40 million to help match a $100 million donation
from  Mark Zuckerberg , Facebook Inc.’s founder, to schools in  New
Jersey ’s largest city.  “I am so grateful that so many are stepping forward after
Mark Zuckerberg’s announcement to answer our call to action and
share our commitment in the limitless potential of Newark’s
students,” Booker said today in an e-mailed statement.  Booker is raising funds needed to match the grant, which
Zuckerberg plans to make through his newly created Startup:
Education Foundation. The mayor, a Democrat, hasn’t released a
list of donors.  Booker said Sept. 25 that “everything is on the table” as
he and  Chris Christie , New Jersey’s Republican governor, attempt
to overhaul schools in Newark, a city of 280,000 where 1-in-4
live at or below the federal poverty level and almost half of
all students don’t graduate high school. The district, with
about 39,000 students, has been under state control since 1995.  Among the options, Booker said, are potentially closing
schools and firing teachers. The grant money won’t be used to
fund private-school vouchers, he said.  Bill Ackman , the founder and chief executive officer of
Pershing Square Capital Management LP, said a foundation he set
up has pledged $25 million to help Newark’s schools.  ‘Effective Mayor’  “Cory Booker is the most outstanding person I’ve ever
met,” Ackman said in a telephone interview. “He’s an effective
mayor,” he said, adding that Christie is giving Booker a larger
role in Newark education.  “It’s one of the worst school systems in the country,”
Ackman said. “It’s a needy population, and it’s a small enough
geography that it is feasible to make a difference.”  Ravenel Curry, 69, who with his wife Elizabeth founded New
York-based  Eagle Capital Management  in 1988, said they have
contributed to the Newark project. Curry wouldn’t say how much
they donated.  “We all want Newark to do well,” Curry, whose company
invests about $6 billion on behalf of clients, said in a
telephone interview. “If it works in Newark, which many would
say is the most difficult city in the U.S., it could work
everywhere else.”  Major donors will have significant influence over what
happens with Newark’s schools, Ackman said.  “Education is the future of this country,” Curry said.
“We have a knowledge economy and if we don’t educate everybody,
we’ll be falling behind.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 