-- LNG Ltd., Metgasco Will Study Project to Process Australian Gas for Export
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-09-27T07:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/lng-ltd-metgasco-will-study-project-to-process-australian-gas-for-export.html
Liquefied Natural Gas Ltd.  and
 Metgasco Ltd.  said they will study the potential development of
an LNG project in Australia’s Queensland state to gain from
rising Asian demand for cleaner-burning fuels.  The companies will consider using Metgasco’s reserves in
the state of New South Wales to develop the Fisherman’s Landing
venture at Gladstone and possibly another project at the Port of
Brisbane, Perth-based LNG Ltd. said in a statement today.  LNG Ltd. wants to replace its initial supplier, Arrow
Energy Ltd., the Australian coal-seam gas company acquired in
August by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and PetroChina Co. LNG Ltd. is
cooperating with Metgasco after talks ended with Bow Energy Ltd.
to provide gas for conversion to liquid form and export to Asia.  LNG Ltd. rose 1.1 percent to 45 Australian cents, while
Metgasco had its biggest gain in more than three months,
climbing 12 percent to 50 cents in Sydney trading. The benchmark
 S&P/ASX 200 Index  gained 1.6 percent.  Metgasco is also evaluating a potential floating LNG
development with Norway’s  Flex LNG Ltd. , the Sydney-based
company said in a separate statement. Floating LNG is a
“commercial possibility” because unlike other coal-seam gas
projects, Metgasco’s resources are close to the coast, it said.  Metgasco is analyzing multiple LNG export options and
expects to make a decision in 2011, the company said.  The “extra” distance to pipe Metgasco’s gas to Gladstone
“is not a critical factor in the overall project economics or
project schedule,” LNG Ltd. Managing Director  Maurice Brand 
said in the statement. LNG Ltd. has said the planned Fisherman’s
Landing venture may cost $1.3 billion.  LNG Ltd. acquired a 5 percent stake in Metgasco, according
to a regulatory filing earlier this month. Brand said Sept. 21
that his company may seek to partner with Metgasco and was in
“advanced discussions with several parties.”  LNG Ltd. said today it is continuing to pursue gas supplies
to feed Fisherman’s Landing and looking for “strategic
partners” to help develop the project and buy fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 