-- Nigeria Bank Lending to Industry Won't Rebound Before 2011, Sanusi Says
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2010-09-27T06:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/nigeria-bank-lending-to-industry-won-t-rebound-before-2011-sanusi-says.html
Nigerian banks won’t raise lending
to private industry until the start of next year, once they have
been restructured and the central bank has bought $10 billion of
toxic debt, central bank Governor  Lamido Sanusi  said.  “I don’t think you’re going to have a pickup in lending
until at least the first quarter of 2011,” Sanusi said in a
telephone interview from the capital, Abuja, on Sept. 24. “This
quarter is likely to be a quarter of deals, mergers and
acquisitions, and for the beginning of integration.”  The  central bank  bailed out 10 banks last year with 620
billion naira ($4.1 billion) to avoid a collapse of the
financial system, and is now pushing for the takeover of some
banks and the merger of others. The purchase of toxic debt by
the state-owned Asset Management Corp. will be part of those
negotiations, Sanusi said. The government has not bought any
toxic assets yet, he said.  Bank lending to private industry has declined in five of
the past eight months and is little changed from December of
last year, according to the central bank  website .  Banks will work with the central bank to cut the cost of
running their business by 30 percent over three years, Sanusi
told reporters at a conference in Abuja on Sept. 23. The
government has created a team of inspectors it can send to
commercial banks in order to reduce the threat of a repeat of
last year’s banking crisis, he said.  Profits and Shares  “In terms of an improvement in profitability, there is
more aggressive cost reduction by the banks, so the margin will
improve very quickly,” Sanusi said in the interview. “The
share price will recover in reaction to a return to
profitability.”  The  Nigerian Stock Exchange Banking Index , which tracks
performance of the top 10 capitalized and most liquid stocks in
the industry, has fallen 1.3 percent this year and is down 68
percent since the start of 2008. Shares in  Zenith Bank Plc ., the
country’s biggest lender by market value, have gained 8.5
percent and declined 52 percent over the same periods.  Sanusi fired the chief executive officers of eight of the
country’s 24 lenders last year for their handling of the debt
crisis that resulted from banks lending to speculators to buy
stocks in companies traded on the  Nigerian Stock Exchange . The
crisis was triggered by a slump in share prices.  Nigeria’s economy, the second-biggest on the continent
after South Africa, is expected to grow 7.78 percent in 2010, up
from 6.96 percent last year, driven by non-oil industries, such
as agriculture, Sanusi said on Sept. 21. Growth is expected to
reach 7.72 percent in the third quarter and 8.19 percent in the
fourth quarter, compared with 7.69 percent in the three months
through June, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 