-- Nigeria Central Bank Limits Lenders' Holdings of Fixed-Income Instruments
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-09-27T13:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/nigerian-central-bank-limits-lenders-holdings-of-fixed-income-instruments.html
The  Central Bank of Nigeria  plans
to limit lenders’ holdings of government debt to 30 percent of
their total portfolio of fixed-income securities.  Banks in the West African nation won’t be allowed to hold
more than 10 percent of the total issue of a single government
debt security, the Abuja-based central bank said in a statement
published on its website on Sept. 24.  “It will ensure transparency in the pricing and allocation
of the bonds,” Abiola Razaq, a Lagos-based analyst with
Meristem Stockbrokers Ltd., said by phone today. Without this
restriction, one or two lenders could take up as much 70 percent
of the issue and influence the coupon rate for the bond, he
explained. “State governments offer higher coupons than the
federal government because they are riskier,”  he said.  Bayelsa state, in the oil-rich Niger Delta region, offered
a coupon of 13.75 percent on its five-year bond, according to a
statement by the government in the Guardian newspaper on July
23. That compares with a yield of 9.9 percent on the Federal
government’s five-year bond sold on Sept. 22.  Nigerian banks cut lending after a debt crisis threatened
the industry. The central bank last year bailed out 10 of the
country’s 24 lenders with an injection of 620 billion naira ($4
billion) and fired eight bank chief executives.  Mauritius’s central bank this month proposed capping banks’
holdings of government and central bank instruments amid efforts
to get banks in the Indian Ocean island nation to boost loans to
customers.  The proposal is “to encourage banks to lend more
aggressively rather than direct all their surplus funds to
Treasury bills and official papers, which has been one of the
factors driving down yields” on government securities, the Port
Louis-based bank said in a statement on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  