-- Noble Group's Leiman Seeks to Expand Oilseeds Business in Black Sea Region
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 2010-09-28T09:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/noble-group-s-leiman-seeking-to-expand-black-sea-grains-oilseeds-business.html
Noble Group Ltd.,  the commodity
supplier backed by China Investment Corp., is seeking to expand
its grain and oilseeds business to take advantage of rising
global food demand, Chief Executive Officer  Ricardo Leiman  said.  “We want to grow in the Black Sea in terms of the grains
and oilseeds business,” Leiman said in an interview yesterday.
“That’s an area that we’re looking at. We want to continue to
grow in China. We already have a big pipeline of projects.”  Noble is  expanding  its energy and agriculture businesses,
which generated almost three quarters of its gross profit last
year, after raising funds from debt and equity sales. Rival  Olam
International Ltd.  said last week it was in merger talks with
Louis Dreyfus Commodities, the world’s biggest rice trader,
adding to a spree of agricultural mergers and acquisitions.  “You need to diversify your supplies,”  Chung Yang Ker , an
analyst at Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone from Singapore.
Expanding in the Black Sea region would allow Noble to increase
sources of oilseeds as global demand for vegetable oils and
biodiesel expands, Ker said.  Noble fell 2.1 percent to S$1.87 on the Singapore stock
exchange at the 5:05 p.m. close, taking the year’s loss to
11 percent. The company was the biggest sunflower seed oil
exporter to India last year, Leiman said in Singapore. The Black
Sea borders Ukraine and Russia, the world’s two biggest
sunflower seed growers, Georgia, Turkey and Bulgaria.  Rising Food Prices  “We may look at sunflower seed opportunities” in the
Black Sea region, Leiman said . “We are looking at origination,
logistics, industrial assets.”  Rising food demand and adverse weather have driven up
prices for wheat, corn and soybeans as much as 62 percent since
June 1. The United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
 Food Price Index  rose last month to the highest level since Sept.
2008, after drought slashed harvests in Russia, the world’s
third-largest wheat grower last year.  The Hong Kong-based commodities supplier this month
agreed to buy Sempra Energy Solutions for $582 million in cash
and assumed debt, allowing it to trade energy in 16 U.S. states.  The company is “looking carefully at the provision of
nuclear fuel to Asia,”  Tobias Brown , Noble’s executive
chairman, said in the same interview. “There’s no doubt that
one cornerstone of energy production in Asia will be the use of
nuclear power generation.”  Uranium Demand  China’s demand for uranium may rise to 20,000 metric tons a
year by 2020, more than a third of the 50,572 tons mined
globally last year, according to the World Nuclear Association.
India’s needs will grow 10-fold to 8,000 tons as it quadruples
nuclear-power capacity to 20 gigawatts, according to Jagdeep
Ghai, finance director at state-owned Nuclear Power Corp.  Noble bought a 5.1 percent stake in USEC Inc., a U.S.
provider of enriched uranium, Brown said. Of all the nuclear
plants being built, about half are in China, he said.  “Noble is planning to expand it energy-trading team into
more than just an intelligence gathering business that supports
its existing ethanol supply chain,”  Chris Sanda , an analyst at
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, said in a report today.  The “management’s vision for this division is one that
includes crude-oil, refined petroleum products, clean fuels,
electricity, natural gas, coal, uranium and carbon credits,”
Sanda said.  Noble has embarked on a building spree, including a $214
million oil tank terminal in Netherlands, warehouses and sugar
refineries in Brazil, and coal mines in Indonesia and Australia.
It added more than 100 people in the past two years for its
energy business, Leiman said in March.  China Investment Corp., the nation’s sovereign wealth fund,
bought an $850 million stake in Noble last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Luzi Ann Javier  in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  