-- Tokyo Landlords Lose Century-Old `Gift Money' as Rents Slump
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2010-09-27T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/tokyo-landlords-lose-century-old-gift-money-as-rents-fall-to-12-year-low.html
After viewing almost 100  Tokyo
apartments , banker Damien Cambon was happy to discover that a
Japanese tradition dating back more than a century is dying: the
payment of up to two months’ rent extra as a gift to the
landlord.  “Reikin,” or “gift money,” a non-refundable fee on top
of a deposit and any broker fees that has helped boost
landlords’ earnings since at least 1897, is the latest victim of
a slump in the market in the world’s second-most expensive city.
Rents in Tokyo’s five central wards fell to an average 4,165 yen
per square meter in June, the lowest since the  Japan Real Estate
Institute  started tracking prices in 1998.  “My broker would say, ‘forget about the gift money,’ and
the landlords would all say, ‘OK,’” said Cambon, 29, who works
for a U.S.-based bank he declined to name. “This was a very
good surprise.”  As Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  considers injecting as much as
4.6 trillion yen ($55 billion) into the economy to create jobs,
boost consumption and stem 12 years of  deflation , Tokyo
landlords are also trying to stimulate the rental  market  by
scrapping reikin and waiving as much as five months’ rent for
new leases.  “The rental property business is changing,” said Yoshiya
Watanabe, a real estate agent at Atland co. in Tokyo. “If you
eliminate reikin, you get better turnaround” for vacant units.  While landlords of luxury Tokyo apartments rented for
500,000 yen or more have waived reikin in the past, as many as
65 percent of units below that tier now don’t require gift money,
compared with about 25 percent two years ago, Watanabe said.  Rooftop, Terrace  Cambon said his previous landlord lowered his  rent  13
percent at the end of his two-year lease and waived the contract
renewal fee of one-month rent. Even so, he opted for a new
apartment with a terrace and rooftop access.  The September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the recession that followed prompted a drop in
occupancy rates, said  Hirotaka Uruma , chief financial officer at
Daiwa House Morimoto Asset Management Co. The company oversees
BLife Investment Corp., a residential real-estate investment
trust that manages 8,116 apartments in Tokyo.  “Waiving reikin has become the norm,” he said. “When
your competitors are also waiving it, it doesn’t make sense for
us to keep demanding it.”  BLife ’s residential occupancy rates in Tokyo’s five central
wards dropped to 85 percent in November from 94 percent a year
earlier, he said. In the same period, gift-money income as a
proportion of total revenue for BLife dropped to 0.3 percent
from 1.65 percent, Uruma said.  ‘Doesn’t Make Sense’  “In the long run, reikin will completely disappear because
this is a system that doesn’t make sense,” said  Yoji Otani , a
real estate analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo. Eliminating
the fee “will make it easier for tenants to move around, which
is good for brokerage companies, but bad for residential
REITs.”  Gift money dates back to as early as 1897 when it was
documented in a contract for a property in Tokyo’s Chiyoda ward,
according to “Japan’s Rental Property (1995),” a book by
 Nobuhisa Segawa , a law professor at Hokkaido University. The
practice originated to offset rising land prices while ensuring
rents for new tenants weren’t substantially different from what
their neighbors were paying, according to Segawa. Reikin income
is typically split between the broker and owner.  Landlords who are holding on to the practice, also known as
“key money,” include those who have inherited their property
and are less concerned about vacancy, Watanabe said.  Not in New York  Demanding key money is illegal in New York, according to
the  New York City Rent Guidelines Board . The practice is no
longer prohibited in England, though landlords typically don’t
charge a  “premium,”  which gives tenants the right to assign
tenancy to a third party, according to Tessa Shepperson, a
lawyer in Norwich.  Tokyo Governor  Shintaro Ishihara  said in a 2004  policy
statement  that reikin as well as contract  renewal fees  should be
eliminated. While the city’s position has not changed, it can’t
legally force landlords to abolish the fee, said Kazuo Onoda,
who works on the city’s efforts to improve housing policies. The
decline of reikin “is a result of market forces,” he said.  Even after Japan’s land prices tumbled the most in 13 years
in 2009, Tokyo is still the second-most expensive city in the
world for expatriates behind Luanda, Angola, based on Mercer
LLC’s  Cost of Living Survey  released in June that compares
housing, food, gasoline, movie and other prices. Rent for a mid-
range two-bedroom unfurnished apartment in Japan’s capital
averaged $4,436 a month, compared with $3,906 in London and
$4,000 in New York, according to the study.  Reikin’s Return?  Some landlords say reikin payments may return once Japan’s
property market recovers.  “At the moment, new supply is very limited,” said  Atsushi Ogata , chief executive officer of Nomura Real Estate Asset
Management Co. which manages a residential and an office REIT.
“In a couple of years, we may face another good market, with
demand outpacing supply, in which case we can probably charge as
much reikin as before.”  Total gift-money income dropped by about half on average in
March and April, when the majority of new tenants move in, from
a year earlier, Ogata said.  Meanwhile, it’s a tenants’ market in Tokyo, as rent has
dropped by as much as 15 percent since 2007, said Mikihisa Hirai,
president of Tokyo-based  Atlas Partners Japan Ltd. , which owns
more than 2,000 apartments in Nagoya, Osaka and Tokyo.  “In order to attract new tenants, owners would rather
forget the gift money, especially when properties are owned by
funds,” he said. “Investors can no longer count on reikin.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Chu  in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
 Katsuyo Kuwako  in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 