-- Hong Kong's August Exports Jump by Most in 18 Years Buoyed by Asian Demand
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-09-27T09:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/hong-kong-s-exports-unexpectedly-jump-most-in-18-years-on-chinese-demand.html
Hong Kong’s exports unexpectedly
climbed the most in more than 18 years in August, buoyed by
Chinese demand and the comparison with a decline a year earlier.  Overseas sales  increased 36 percent to HK$290.1 billion
($37.4 billion) after a 23.3 percent gain in July, the
government said on its website today. None of seven economists
in a Bloomberg News  survey  forecast such a large jump.  Export gains may be limited in coming months as austerity
measures and elevated unemployment drag on demand in developed
economies. Japan reported today that overseas shipments grew at
the slowest pace this year in August.  Hong Kong’s export growth may “moderate for the rest of
this year,” said  Donna Kwok , an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc.
Chinese demand will “unlikely be sustained given that mainland
tightening measures are still kicking in,” said Kwok, who’s
based in the city.  Today’s export number compares with a 14 percent decline in
August 2009 from a year earlier. Strong Asian demand and a
“gradual recovery” in the U.S. and Europe contributed, the
statistics department said.  Shipments to Asia gained 41 percent, while those to China,
the main destination for goods shipped through Hong Kong, rose
45 percent, the statement showed. Sales to the U.S. climbed 25
percent and those to Germany gained 18 percent.  Trade Deficit  Imports  rose 28.4 percent from a year earlier, leaving a
trade deficit of HK$11.9 billion.  The jump in exports is “unlikely to be sustained,” said
 Irina Fan , a Hong Kong-based economist at Hang Seng Bank Ltd.
The size of last month’s gain could reflect shipments for
Christmas and a favorable comparison with the same period in
2009, Fan said.  Export growth will slow “in the near term,” said  Edward Leung , chief economist at the government-backed Hong Kong Trade
Development Council, citing a  survey  that showed declining
confidence in the outlook.  In contrast,  Techtronic Industries Co. , a Hong Kong-based
maker of Hoover vacuum cleaners and Ryobi power tools with
manufacturing plants in China, said the company is “looking for
good growth” in Western Europe as economies bounce back, Chief
Executive Officer  Joseph Galli  said last month.  Trade gains helped to fuel Hong Kong’s  economic growth  of
6.5 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier.  -- With assistance from  Michael Munoz . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,
 Lily Nonomiya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  