-- Anglo Irish Bonds Downgraded by Moody's as Ireland Weighs Bailout Costs
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-09-27T11:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/moody-s-downgrades-anglo-unguaranteed-debt-as-ireland-weighs-bailout-costs.html
Anglo Irish Bank Corp .’s senior
debt was cut to the lowest investment grade rating by Moody’s
Investors Service, which said it may reduce the rating to junk
unless the government guarantees bondholders against losses.  The ratings company cut the lender’s senior unguaranteed
debt to Baa3 from A3, Moody’s said in a statement today. Anglo
Irish’s subordinated debt, guaranteed by Ireland’s government
until Sept. 29, was also downgraded to Caa1 from Ba1. The firm
said it may reduce its senior debt ratings.  Ireland first provided the guarantee to prevent a collapse
of the country’s financial system after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. filed for bankruptcy. The government nationalized Dublin-
based Anglo Irish in January 2009 after the lender was battered
by losses from the collapse of the country’s real estate bubble.
Ireland, which has injected  22.9 billion  euros ($31 billion)
into the bank, will outline the bailout’s final cost this week.  “Moody’s expects a continued asset quality deterioration
in the loan book of Anglo Irish that will require further
government support,”  Ross Abercromby , vice president and lead
analyst for Anglo Irish at Moody’s, said in today’s statement.
“In the absence of explicit government guarantees, the senior
unsecured debt ratings could be further downgraded.” Moody’s
rates anything below Baa3 as sub-investment grade.  The ratings company reduced its rating on Anglo Irish’s
mortgage-covered bonds to A2 from Aa2.  The Irish government  decided  on Sept. 8 to split Anglo
Irish into an asset recovery bank, which will be run down over
time, and a funding bank, which will retain Anglo Irish’s
deposits. Moody’s said the move could allow the government to
pass some of its costs onto the recovery bank’s other creditors.
The government could buy back about 4.2 billion euros of notes
that lose their guarantee at the end of this month at less than
par, the analysts said.  Still, the government is most likely provide additional
capital as part of an “orderly wind down” of the asset
recovery bank, the Moody’s analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  