-- Tora Trading Plans `Dark Pool' Expansion in Australia and Europe, CEO Says
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 2010-09-27T01:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/tora-trading-plans-dark-pool-expansion-in-australia-and-europe-ceo-says.html
Tora Trading Services Ltd. , which
runs a trading execution platform and dark pools, said it plans
to expand into Australia and Europe to capture increasing demand
for services in Asia.  The company, in which  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  has a
minority stake, intends to hire two people in Australia by the
end of this year to manage client services and sales, Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Dykes  said in an interview from Hong
Kong. The San Francisco-based firm will also add three to four
sales staff in Europe during the first half of 2011, he said.  “There are a lot of Asian funds based in Europe, so we can
offer expertise there,” said Dykes. “You’re starting to see
high-frequency guys moving into Asia and Singapore and Japan.
There’s definitely a lot of momentum, which feeds into what we
do.”  Tora started offering Crosspoint, a dark pool trading
system, for securities in Japan in February as investors look
for faster and cheaper trading. It opened a Hong Kong office in
2006.  Dark pools, trading platforms that execute stock trades
without displaying prices, are developing in Asia for brokers
and institutions seeking to transact without going to public
stock exchanges. Deutsche Bank AG began dark pool trading in
Hong Kong on Aug. 23 and plans to offer off-exchange trading in
Australia, Japan and Singapore later. Citigroup Inc. said last
month that it plans to start dark pool services in Singapore
next year after its off-exchange trading in Australia increased
to a record in June.  “The biggest theme in Asia, at least from the buy-side
perspective, is liquidity and how to get access to liquidity,”
said Dykes. “There’s still huge demand for off-exchange
liquidity.”  He predicts dark pools will account for between 15 percent
and 20 percent of Asian trading volume in five years. Just more
than 1 percent of equities trading volume in Asia took place off
exchanges, compared with 42 percent in the U.S. and about 30
percent in Europe, according to financial industry research and
consulting firm Celent.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lynn Thomasson  in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net . 