-- Oracle Accuses Micron of Overcharging Sun Microsystems
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-09-27T21:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/oracle-accuses-micron-of-conspiring-to-fix-chip-prices-paid-by-sun-unit.html
Oracle Corp.  sued Micron Technology
Inc., alleging it overcharged  Sun Microsystems Inc. , which
Oracle acquired, by conspiring to fix prices for computer memory
chips.  Micron  and other makers of dynamic random access memory, or
DRAM, artificially inflated the price of chips they sold to Sun,
Oracle claimed in an antitrust complaint filed Sept. 24 in
federal court in San Jose, California.  The case is partly based on a 2002 U.S. Justice Department
investigation of price fixing in the memory-chip industry that
led to claims against four companies and 16 people who have been
fined as much as $731 million.  Micron  cooperated with U.S.
officials in exchange for not being charged with a crime,
according to Oracle’s complaint.  The memory manufacturers “conspired to control production
capacity, raise prices or slow their decline, allocate
customers, and otherwise unlawfully overcharge their DRAM
customers,” Oracle said in its complaint.  Dan Francisco , a spokesman for Boise, Idaho-based Micron,
declined to comment.  Ichon, South Korea-based  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. , Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung Electronics Co., Tokyo-based Elpida
Memory Inc., and Neubiberg, Germany-based Infineon Technologies
AG are indentified by Oracle as co-conspirators in the case.
Those companies aren’t named as defendants.  Private Lawsuits  In 2007, Micron paid $80 million to settle separate private
antitrust lawsuits filed over U.S. sales of DRAM from 1999 to
2002. Oracle’s claims are based on DRAM sales made to Sun, which
Oracle acquired in January.  From 1998 to 2002, Sun bought more than $2 billion worth of
DRAM in the U.S. for its servers and work stations, according to
the complaint. Oracle seeks to recover unspecified damages for
violations of federal and California antitrust laws, and the
company claims those damages should be tripled according to
those laws.  Hynix is the world’s second-largest computer-memory
chipmaker and Micron is the biggest U.S. producer of computer-
memory chips.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc.,
10-04340, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joel Rosenblatt  in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 