-- Morgan Stanley Said to Freeze Investment-Bank Hiring for 2010
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2010-09-28T05:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/morgan-stanley-said-to-freeze-hiring-at-investment-bank-for-rest-of-year.html
Morgan Stanley , the sixth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, halted hiring at its investment-banking
group for the rest of 2010, a person briefed on the decision
said.  The firm ruled out layoffs through the end of the year, the
person said, speaking anonymously because the matter hasn’t been
publicly disclosed.  Jim Wiggins , a spokesman for Morgan Stanley,
declined to comment on the hiring freeze. He said the company
intends to hire brokers for the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney unit,
a joint venture with  Citigroup Inc.   The freeze, which includes the New York-based firm’s sales
and  trading  units, comes as weak trading and equity underwriting
volume may lead the five largest Wall Street banks to post their
lowest revenue from investment banking and trading since the
fourth quarter of 2008.  Bank of America Corp.  is firing as many
as 400 employees in its global banking and markets division, a
person briefed on the matter said last week.  Fox Business Network reported Morgan Stanley’s decision to
suspend hiring yesterday.  Companies including Barclays Capital and  Credit Suisse
Group AG  also have started reducing staff in Europe. Securities
firms around the world will cut as many as 80,000 jobs in the
next 18 months as revenue growth begins to slow, bank analyst
 Meredith Whitney  of Meredith Whitney Advisory Group LLC said in
a report dated Aug. 31.  Seven analysts including  Richard Staite  at Atlantic
Equities LLP in London cut third-quarter earnings  estimates  for
Morgan Stanley in the past two weeks, citing weak trading in the
quarter. The average estimate is 43 cents a share, down from 57
cents, according to 20 analysts in a  Bloomberg survey .  Morgan Stanley added about 400 employees to its sales and
trading business since June 2009. The firm’s headcount was
62,926 at the end of June, up 3 percent from a year earlier.  Morgan Stanley  declined  28 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $24.87
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares are down 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 