-- P&G Targets Luxury Skincare in China, Perfume in Latin America
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2010-09-27T11:36:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/p-g-targets-luxury-skincare-in-china-perfume-in-latin-america.html
Procter & Gamble Co.  will focus on
skincare in China and fragrances in Latin America as it looks to
boost luxury beauty sales outside the U.S. and Europe.  P&G, whose products range from Tide detergent to  Gucci 
perfume, plans to grow by expanding luxury skincare brands like
 SK-II  and making acquisitions, the head of the company’s
prestige business unit said in a Sept. 25 interview in Milan.  P&G, based in Cincinnati, and rival  L’Oreal SA , the world’s
largest cosmetics maker, are chasing growth in emerging markets,
where the “appeal and relevance” of expensive beauty products
are increasing as people become more wealthy, said  Patrice Louvet , president of P&G global prestige products. P&G estimates
the global market for luxury beauty will reach $90 billion by
2015 from $70 billion now, according to Louvet.  “The top international businesses make up only about half
of the total business,” Louvet said. “So, I strongly believe
we can all grow nicely and meet our objectives.”  About a  third  of P&G’s revenue last year came from
developing markets and northeast Asia, according to Bloomberg
data.  The world’s largest consumer-products company is looking
for acquisitions to complete its prestige beauty portfolio,
which also includes  The Art of Shaving  grooming, Louvet said.
These will be brands “we can make available across the
planet,” the Switzerland-based executive said, declining to
identify candidates.  The priority, however, is expanding P&G’s existing prestige
beauty portfolio geographically and in new categories, he said.  ‘Play’ in Brazil  In Asia, particularly China, P&G is targeting skincare with
brands like  SK-II , Louvet said. Spending on face creams and
other skin products has grown 21 percent in the country over
four years, according to  Pablo Zuanic , an analyst at Liberum
Capital Ltd. P&G has 12 percent of the Chinese skincare market,
less than leader L’Oreal’s 16 percent share, Zuanic estimates.  In Latin America, the focus is on fragrances, Louvet said.
“Most of the players are local in Brazil and we believe there’s
an opportunity for us to play there,” the executive said.  Louvet declined to say how P&G planned to challenge the
dominance of direct sellers like  Avon Products Inc.  in Latin
America.  “Ultimately, we want to find the best way to serve the
consumers so we’ll work with the various options that are
possible and available in Brazil to get to the consumer,”
Louvet said.  P&G plans to roll out franchised Tide Dry Cleaners across
the U.S. to boost revenue in the country and increase awareness
around the detergent brand and its other products.  If there are similar licensing opportunities for prestige
beauty services, such as more SK-II spas, “that may be an
opportunity we look at in the future,” Louvet said. P&G
currently operates “two or three” SK-II spas in Asia, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 