-- Pakistan's Supreme Court Delays Graft Case Threat to Zardari's Government
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-09-27T14:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/pakistan-s-supreme-court-delays-graft-case-threat-to-zardari-s-government.html
Pakistan’s Supreme Court postponed
a hearing on corruption cases facing President  Asif Ali Zardari 
and thousands of current or former officials, delaying the
latest challenge to Zardari’s administration.  The court accepted a government appeal and set Oct. 13 to
hear a case in which judges last year ordered the scrapping of
an amnesty law that they said illegally protected Zardari and
other officials from corruption cases dating back to the 1990s.
Then, the court told the government to formally ask Swiss
authorities to reopen a Geneva money-laundering case against
Zardari, a step Prime Minister  Yusuf Raza Gilani  has declined to
take, saying a sitting president is immune from prosecution.  The court challenge to Zardari “is part of a campaign by
dissatisfied elements in the military, judiciary and the media
who want to force Zardari out because of what they see as
corruption and ineffective government, notably over the economy
and the response to the floods” that have caused billions of
dollars in damage and killed more than 1,800 people, said
political analyst  Talat Masood  in the capital, Islamabad.  While parliament this year stripped Pakistan’s presidency
of many powers accumulated by Zardari’s predecessor, the
military President  Pervez Musharraf , Zardari is the top official
who has cooperated most closely with U.S. efforts to improve
Pakistan’s relations with neighboring Afghanistan and India,
Masood and other analysts have said.  ‘Serious Challenge’  “Zardari is facing a serious challenge, with some of his
opponents quietly urging the military leadership to force a
change in government,” said Masood, a retired lieutenant
general from the army, which has directly ruled Pakistan for 32
of Pakistan’s 63 years. Armed forces chief General Ashfaq  Pervez Kayani  “won’t go along with that,” Masood said in a telephone
interview, “so I think the government will survive.”  Zardari, Gilani and Kayani met today and agreed “to defend
and protect the democratic process and to resolve all issues in
accordance with the constitution,” a statement from Zardari’s
office said.  Zardari summoned the leadership of his ruling Pakistan
Peoples Party to a meeting this evening as Gilani told reporters
in Islamabad that “those people who are talking of change” in
the government “will be disappointed.” The administration will
serve its full term, which runs until 2013, he said.  Pakistan’s annual inflation rate surpassed 13 percent in
August. Flood damage and high interest rates fueled partly by
government deficits may impede investment and undermine economic
growth, which Gilani estimated at 2.5 percent in the year
through June, 2 percentage points less than the government’s
target.  Bhutto Killing  The Supreme Court last year ruled unconstitutional a 2007
National Reconciliation Ordinance by Musharraf that offered
amnesty against criminal and corruption cases to more than 8,000
politicians and officials. Musharraf implemented the pardon as
he negotiated with Zardari’s wife, former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto , for a way to retain office.  Musharraf resigned in 2008 and the amnesty has remained
controversial. Gilani told the Senate on Sept. 24 he has ordered
all government officials protected by the ordinance to step down
in what Masood called a concession meant to “show cooperation
with the spirit of the Supreme Court’s order.”  Bhutto was assassinated weeks after Musharraf ordered the
amnesty, and after the Peoples Party won 2008 elections, Zardari
helped force Musharraf from power and was elected president in
September last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rupert  in Islamabad at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  