-- Palm Oil Ends at Highest Price in 16 Months on Exports, Demand Optimism
-- B y   C l a i r e   L e o w   a n d   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-09-27T10:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/palm-oil-ends-at-highest-price-in-16-months-on-exports-demand-optimism.html
Palm oil jumped to the highest
close in more than 16 months as exports increased from Malaysia,
the second-biggest producer, and as advancing stock markets
boosted optimism over the economic recovery and commodity demand.  December-delivery palm oil surged 1.3 percent to 2,735
ringgit ($885) a metric ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange,
the highest finish since May 13, 2009. The tropical oil traded
as high as 2,755 ringgit today.  Palm oil exports from Malaysia climbed 15 percent to 1.08
million tons in the first 25 days of September compared with the
same period in August, independent cargo surveyor Societe
Generale de Surveillance estimated today. The MSCI Asia  Pacific 
Index reached a five-month high as a rebound in U.S. capital
goods orders boosted optimism in the global economic recovery.  “The buoyancy is liquidity-driven, as everyone wants to
play the soft commodity theme, the whole Asian consumption story
and dollar weakness,”  Ben Santoso , a plantation analyst at DBS
Vickers Securities (Singapore) Pte., said today. The gain in
Malaysian exports was higher than expected, he said.  While investors may be buying into “the bullish news,” in
the short term, palm oil inventories “have turned back up again
and by the end of this month will be even higher,” Santoso said.
Prices reflect “a clear signal of exuberance,” he said.  Palm oil has rallied for four straight weeks as demand rose
ahead of festivals and excess rains hurt harvests, causing
stockpiles to drop for seven months through July.  Malaysian  inventories  advanced in August, jumping 23
percent to 1.72 million tons from July, the country’s palm oil
board said Sept. 15.  Expanding Inventory  Inventories may rise again in September, hurting prices for
“the next four to six weeks,”  Dorab Mistry , a director at
Godrej International Ltd. who has traded edible oils for more
than three decades, said yesterday in Mumbai.  “Prices will likely remain range-bound into the end of the
year with not much catalyst to bring prices past 3,000 ringgit
per metric ton,” said  Bernard Ching , an analyst at ECM Libra
Investment Research, in a report today.  Stockpiles are likely to grow as increased supply coincides
with diminishing demand as major festivals in China and
Indonesia end. China, the largest user of edible oils, marked
the mid-autumn festival last week and will celebrate National
Day in the week starting Oct. 1.  Indonesia, with the largest Muslim population, had its
biggest Islamic holiday earlier this month, which traditionally
spurs demand for palm oil.  Palm oil may tumble as much as 7.4 percent by the end of
October as Malaysian production rebounds and Indonesian growers
speed up shipments, Mistry said.  Growth in global vegetable oil supplies may lag behind
demand for a third year, Mistry said yesterday. Palm oil may
climb as high as 3,200 ringgit a ton by January as soybeans
advance to $12 a bushel by December, he said.  CME Group Inc.’s December-palm oil contract, which is
pegged to the Malaysian benchmark price, was little changed at
$889.50 a ton. On the Dalian Commodity Exchange, May-delivery
palm oil closed 2.6 percent higher at 7,794 yuan ($1,164) as
trading resumed after a three-day break.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 