-- Peugeot Pitches Diesel-Electric Car in Race to Catch Toyota
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-09-28T08:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/peugeot-s-varin-pitches-diesel-electric-car-in-race-to-catch-toyota-prius.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen  will unveil the
world’s first diesel-electric car this week to take on Renault
SA’s all-electric strategy as both French carmakers play catch-
up to Toyota Motor Corp.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest automaker, will use the
 Paris Motor Show  to push a hybrid version of its 3008 crossover
hatchback, while Renault sets out its strategy for making
battery-powered cars a mass-market success.  Peugeot Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Varin  and Renault
Nissan alliance CEO  Carlos Ghosn ’s face-off exemplifies industry
divisions over the kinds of green technology consumers might
embrace. Carmakers are chasing market leader Toyota, whose 1997
gasoline-electric Prius was the world’s first hybrid.  “Renault-Nissan has missed the boat on hybrid
technology,” said  Naimish Shah , who helps manage $100 billion
for New Jersey-based Lord Abbett and sold most of his Renault
stock in the first half of the year. “Electric cars are a risky
bet as hybrids improve and prices come down.”  Renault and Japanese affiliate  Nissan Motor Co.  are
wagering $4 billion that their battery vehicles will find a mass
market amounting to 10 percent of global sales by 2020. Peugeot,
which sees half that demand for electric cars, is counting on
increasing oil prices and environmental regulations to make the
case for diesel hybrids, which are more costly and potentially
more efficient than their gas-electric equivalents.  Chevy Volt  Peugeot  fell  78.5 cents, or 3.1 percent, to 24.84 euros at
10:09 a.m. in Paris. Renault lost 92.5 cents, or 2.5 percent, to
36.60 euros. The Bloomberg EMEA Auto Manufacturers  Index  dropped
1.8 percent.  The French companies join an increasingly crowded field of
carmakers offering technology with lower emissions. Toyota and
 Honda Motor Co.  are extending their gasoline-electric
transmissions from the original mid-sized sedans to smaller
models, unlocking bigger markets and economies of scale for
their components. Honda will unveil the Jazz subcompact hybrid,
to be introduced early in 2011, in Paris.  On the all-electric car front,  General Motors Co. ’s $41,000
Chevrolet Volt comes to market next month. The Volt will be sold
as the Opel Ampera in Europe starting next year. Nissan’s Leaf
electric car goes on sale in December.  Peugeot Prices  Unlike hybrids, electric cars are beset by uncertainties
over the roll-out of recharging networks, the cost of their
larger batteries and their limited range before plugging in
becomes necessary. The constraints narrow the potential market
because fuel savings outweigh battery costs only for heavy
commuters, while trips longer than 80 miles are difficult.  “The problem is that consumers base their choice of car
on the few times every year when they do occasionally need to go
further afield,” said Bernard Jullien, an industrial economist
with French automotive think-tank Gerpisa. “Until we have much
lower prices, hybrids will win on continuity. They’re not asking
the customer to revolutionize his behavior.”  European prices for the 3008 hybrid will start somewhere
above 30,000 euros ($40,400), Peugeot spokesman  Jean-Marc Sarret 
said, compared with 21,600 euros for the basic gasoline version.
Peugeot plans to offer the technology, which it calls
“Hybrid4”, with three other large car models.  “We’re convinced customers will be prepared to pay more for
diesel hybrids because the price-gap is justified by their
functionality and fuel efficiency,”  Vincent Besson , Peugeot’s
product director, said in an e-mail. “Hybrids have a big future
because they’re much more versatile than electric cars.”  Toyota City Car  Paris-based Peugeot’s design combines a diesel engine
powering the front wheels with an electric rear transmission,
offering a range of just 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) in electric-
only mode and an average 99 grams of CO2 emissions per
kilometer, compared with 89 grams for Toyota’s Prius. Peugeot
has said rechargeable “plug-in” versions with bigger batteries
and motors will follow in 2014.  Hybridizing diesel creates additional costs that are
unacceptable to many consumers, in return for relatively small
efficiency gains, Toyota Europe Vice President  Michel Gardel 
said in an interview.  Toyota will show the prototype of a hybrid city-car planned
for 2012 in Paris. The hybrid version of Toyota’s Auris compact,
introduced to Europe in July, has already sold out its planned
2010 production of 14,000 cars, Gardel said.  Toyota  delivered
more than half a million hybrids last year worldwide and plans
to add a plug-in Prius in 2012.  Renault’s Strategy  In France, where hybrids qualify for a 2,000 euro
government incentive and electric-car buyers get 5,000 euros,
the Auris hybrid comes out 1,300 euros cheaper than the 22,600-
euro price tag on its diesel sibling.  Renault  is aligning its Zoe electric city-car due in 2012
with the 17,500 euro price of its comparably equipped Clio
diesel. The deal excludes the battery, leased for an extra 80
euros to 100 euros per month.  The owner must drive 12,000 kilometers a year to beat
combustion-engine running costs, according to a business model
that assumes oil will rise to $100 a barrel, said  Thierry Koskas , head of Renault’s electric-car program. The current
price is around $77 a barrel in New York.  Among the 4 million Europeans who buy subcompacts each
year, about 1.6 million meet the mileage conditions needed to
save cash by replacing the vehicles with electric cars, Koskas
said in an interview at the carmaker’s headquarters in the Paris
suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt. Renault expects more than half
of them to have made the switch within a decade, he said.  ‘Zero Emission’  Unlike  GM ’s Volt, which includes a small gasoline generator
that charges the battery on the move and kicks in after 40 miles
to extend the total range by another 300 miles, Renault-Nissan
models are limited to 100 miles on a single battery charge.  Renault has a five-year deal to supply 100,000 Fluence
electric sedans for Israeli and Danish government-backed
recharging networks being deployed by California-based Better
Place.  Ghosn’s carmaking alliance chose not to offer range-
extended versions of its battery cars even though it would have
been able to do so, Koskas said.  “We’re fully aware that going all-electric means we’re not
covering the whole market, but we’re convinced electric cars
have their place,” he said. “Our cars are zero-emission, not
almost-zero-emission.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 