-- Pfizer Sues Novo Nordisk Over Insulin-Device Patent
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-09-27T16:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/pfizer-sues-novo-nordisk-in-london-court-over-patent-on-insulin-device.html
Pfizer Inc. , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, sued Danish competitor  Novo Nordisk A/S  in a U.K.
court to invalidate its patent for an injection mechanism that
prevents overdoses.  Novo Nordisk’s European patent for the dose-setting device
is based on claims that weren’t new when the patent application
was filed, New York-based Pfizer said in a complaint in the High
Court in London. The suit, filed July 5 and made public this
week, didn’t say if Pfizer is using the technology.  “We disagree with Pfizer’s claim and we will defend the
patent in court,”  Mike Rulis , a spokesman for Bagsvaerd,
Denmark-based Novo Nordisk, said today in a phone interview.  Pfizer and Novo Nordisk, the world’s biggest maker of the
diabetes treatment insulin, have sparred over delivery methods
for the drug since at least 2005. The disputed patent concerns a
device that lets doctors set maximum dose limits to prevent the
visually impaired and other groups from using too much during
self injections.  Pfizer also sued Novo Nordisk in Switzerland over the same
patent, which expires in 2026, Pfizer spokeswoman Charlotte
Binstead said in an e-mailed statement.  Novo Nordisk in December started the first human tests on
an experimental insulin pill, joining companies seeking to
develop an alternative to daily injections.  The companies’ earlier dispute concerned Pfizer’s inhaled-
insulin product Exubera, seen as a possible replacement to
injections. Pfizer stopped selling the product in 2007 when it
failed to catch on with doctors and patients, while Novo Nordisk
abandoned its inhaled version the following year.  The companies in 2007 settled a U.S. patent-infringement
suit over Exubera. In that case, Novo Nordisk sued Pfizer in
federal court in New York, claiming Exubera infringed two
patents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 