-- Philippines' Henry Sy May Build Apartments in China
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2010-09-27T05:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/philippine-billionaire-henry-sy-plans-apartments-shopping-malls-in-china.html
SM Development Corp. , owned by
Philippine billionaire  Henry Sy , plans to build apartments in
China as he aims to double the group’s number of shopping malls
in the world’s fastest growing major economy. The stock rose to
a record.  Manila-based  SM Development ’s first residential project in
China may start as early as next year, said Chief Executive
Officer  Henry Sy Jr ., the tycoon’s eldest son. The company is
raising 11.68 billion pesos ($266 million) in a 1-for-3 rights
offer next month.  The developer’s foray into China’s residential market comes
as the family seeks to double by 2013 its three shopping malls
in the world’s most populous nation. China has a $4.91 trillion
gross domestic product, compared with the Southeast Asian
nation’s $160.48 billion economy.  Residential projects in China are “very, very viable and I
am getting ready to put up a company,” Sy, 56, said in a Sept.
24 interview in Manila. He declined to give the size of the
potential investment and if the apartments will be located
beside the group’s malls in China.  Shares of  SM Development  surged as much as 15 percent
earlier today and rose 9.6 percent to 10.98 pesos at the noon
close in Manila, the highest since the stock began trading in
March 1992. The benchmark  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  rose
1.1 percent.  China Malls  SM Prime Holdings Inc. , the largest Philippine shopping
mall operator and a unit of SM Development parent  SM Investments
Corp.,  is spending 3.5 billion yuan ($523 million) to open four
more malls in China in three years.  SM Prime has malls in Xiamen, Jinjiang and Chengdu. It will
open one in Suzhou later this year, Chongqing in 2011 and
Tianjin and Shandong in 2013, according to the company.  “The group is trying to maximize what they can earn from
China given they already have a presence in the market,” said
Jidgette Velasco, analyst at Manila-based Philippine Equity
Partners Inc. “The company is laying down the foundation for
future growth and will likely pursue this in parallel with SM
Prime’s strategy in China.”  Malls, Apartments  China’s government has taken steps this year to cool record
gains in  property prices , including limiting lending,
restricting multiple-home purchases and accelerating the
construction of public housing.  SM Development  builds apartments near SM Prime’s malls in
the Philippines. The strategy has boosted home sales and allowed
it to catch up with bigger and older residential builders. SM
Development earlier this year became the third-largest
Philippine developer by market value, overtaking  Robinsons Land
Corp. ,  Filinvest Land Inc.  and  Vista Land & Lifescapes Inc.   Today’s gain valued  SM Development  at 60.35 billion pesos,
surpassing  Megaworld Corp.  as the nation’s second-largest home-
builder by market value. Megaworld is worth 58.97 billion pesos
based on today’s prices.  Henry Sy, 85, migrated from China’s Fujian province at 12
and built his wealth from a shoe store that he opened in Manila
in 1948. He has a $5 billion net worth, according to Forbes Asia
in July. His companies include the largest Philippine bank by
assets and the nation’s biggest department store and grocery
chains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
 Cecilia Yap  in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  