-- Pimco’s Kiesel Says Emerging-Market Company Debt Beats U.S.
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-09-27T17:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/pimco-s-kiesel-says-emerging-market-company-debt-beats-u-s-.html
Emerging-market company bonds offer
better value than U.S. or European corporate debt as developing
economies outpace their richer counterparts,  Mark Kiesel , global
head of corporate bond management at Pacific Investment
Management Co. said today.  Emerging market company bonds have returned 17.1 percent
this year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Emerging Market Credit Index, beating the 8.81 percent returned
by its Global Broad Market Corporate Index and 6.3 percent
return for investing in the  Dow Jones Industrial Aver age.  Pimco  likes bonds sold by Russian energy and pipeline
companies as well as Brazil’s Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Gerdau SA
and miner Vale SA, he said. Brazil’s gross domestic product may
grow 7.1 percent this year, and Russia’s may expand 4 percent,
compared with 2.7 percent in the U.S. and 1.6 percent in the
euro zone, according to Bloomberg surveys.  “We’re seeing less growth in developed countries and
faster growth in emerging-market countries,” Kiesel said.
“These emerging-market companies have great resources and low
production costs and yet the yields are 5 or 6 percent, which is
about 1 to 1.5 percent more than what a similarly rated company
would be in the  U.S. or Europe, so you’re getting a significant
yield premium on these companies and yet you’re getting better
assets and value.”  Petrobras raised $70 billion last week in the world’s
largest share sale and Gerdau, Latin America’s biggest
steelmaker, sold $1.25 billion of bonds at a yield of 5.75
percent on Sept. 23.  To contact the reporters responsible on this story:
 Margaret Brennan  in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net ;
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  