-- Ad Spending on Congress Races Soars to $220 Million
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2010-09-27T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/political-advertisement-spending-on-congress-races-soars-to-220-million.html
Candidates, parties and outside
groups have already spent hundreds of millions of dollars on
political advertisements aimed at swaying the Nov. 2 U.S.
congressional elections, a study found.  Ad spending on House and Senate races climbed to $220
million through Sept. 15, from $135 million at the same point in
2008, according to data analyzed by the  Wesleyan Media Project .
The increase mainly comes from Senate races, with Florida,
Pennsylvania and Nevada topping the list, the study found.  “Both Republicans and Democrats have a legitimate shot of
having majorities in Congress,” spurring spending, said  Travis
Ridout , co-director of the project, in a statement today.  Americans’ dissatisfaction with the economy and the
direction of the country is jeopardizing Democratic control of
the House and Senate. Opposition to President  Barack Obama  has
also fueled an increase in spending by Republican-leaning
outside groups.  Outside groups including Crossroads GPS, advised by
Republican strategist  Karl Rove , have spent more than $31
million on ads for this year’s Senate races, up from $16 million
in 2008, the Wesleyan Media Project found. Candidates in those
races have more than doubled their spending to $121 million.  Citizens United  Some of the increase in non-candidate spending can be
traced to the Supreme Court’s January decision that freed
corporations and unions to spend unlimited amounts from their
treasuries, said Ridout, a political science professor at
Washington State University in Pullman, Washington.  That decision, known as Citizens United, isn’t causing many
corporations to do direct advertising, said  Erika Franklin Fowler , another co-director of the project. Instead, more money
is flowing into issue advocacy groups that don’t have to report
contributors to the  Federal Election Commission , she said.  “We are seeing evidence of changing tactics as groups seek
shelter in the rules for nonprofits that allow such
organizations to withhold their donor names,” said Fowler, a
government professor at Wesleyan University in Middletown,
Connecticut.  Crossroads GPS  Crossroads GPS is one of the groups taking advantage of the
new money flow. It had spent $5.9 million on 6,868 ads as of
Sept. 15, according to the study. Its ads have targeted
Democratic Senators  Harry Reid  of Nevada and  Michael Bennet  of
Colorado, as well as Democratic Senate candidates  Jack Conway  of
Kentucky and  Robin Carnahan  of Missouri, FEC records show.  The group in August also announced plans to spend $1
million on ads against California Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer  and $500,000 to oppose Democratic Senate candidate  Joe Sestak  in Pennsylvania. While the ads don’t specifically
advocate voting against the Democrats, they criticize the
candidates for supporting Obama’s health-care plan.  The leaders of  Crossroads GPS  say they have raised $32
million for it and a sister group, American Crossroads, and
eventually plan to spend $52 million on the elections.  The advertising project, which used data from Kantar
Media’s Campaign Media Analysis Group, found that almost $350
million has been spent on advertising for gubernatorial races
this cycle. About one quarter, or $89 million, came from
California Republican candidate  Meg Whitman , the former chief
executive officer of  EBay Inc.   Governors’ Association  The Republican Governors Association has spent more than
$12 million on ads, and Republican interest groups have outspent
Democratic counterparts by a margin of 2-1 overall, the study
found. Two Republican-leaning groups, Let’s Get to Work and the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, have each spent close to $7 million.  The top two outside groups for Democrats are California
Working Families for  Jerry Brown  for Governor, which has spent
$6.6 million, and the  American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees  union, which has spent just over $6 million.  Republicans are depending on outside groups to help them
overcome a deficit in official party fundraising. The three
major Democratic Party committees reported a combined cash
advantage of more than $20 million over their Republican
counterparts heading into September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  