-- Pop Stars, Pandas Get Caught in Asian Crossfire: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2010-09-27T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/pop-stars-pandas-get-caught-in-asian-crossfire-william-pesek.html
You know things are really bad when
pop stars and pandas get drawn into a diplomatic dispute.  It started as a minor fender bender at sea -- a Chinese
fishing boat colliding with two Japanese coast guard ships. It
exploded into a diplomatic crisis that produced a chilling
message: Asia’s future is one in which two economic powers will
increasingly be at odds over issues so petty that they beg
credulity. And markets will be caught in the crossfire.  Following the Sept. 7 detention of the Chinese fishing-boat
captain, China severed senior-level contacts and street protests
sprung up there demanding his release. Next came reports that
 China  was banning the export of “rare earths” to Japan,
threatening supplies of a raw material vital to hybrid cars,
laptops, wind turbines, weapons and iPhones.  Oddly, the real indignity involved pop stars. Chinese
organizers canceled concerts in Shanghai by boy band SMAP. Its
five members are Japan’s biggest celebrities. Just try getting
through an hour in  Tokyo  without seeing them on television and
billboards or hearing their sugary tunes blaring out of karaoke
bars. The souring tone of China-Japan relations went viral once
Japanese learned SMAP got dissed.  And then there’s the bizarre panda scandal. Beijing
dispatched investigators to a Kobe zoo to get to the bottom of
the death of a giant panda on loan from  China . Some conspiracy
theorists connected Xing Xing’s Sept. 9 death during a medical
procedure to the boat incident -- all apparently an effort to
annoy China’s 1.3 billion people.  Dustup Has Legs  Japan released the captain, making Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
look wimpy. He faces a public angry that he bowed to Beijing.
China demanded an apology and compensation. Japan responded by
calling for China to pay for repairs to its coast guard vessels.
This dustup still has legs.  This is the first major tiff since China replaced Japan as
Asia’s powerhouse. China’s overreaction smacks of diplomatic
immaturity and makes a mockery of its charm offensive in Asia.
Anyone who thinks the changing of the guard in  Asia  will go
smoothly is dreaming, and that’s bad news for investors.  Really, folks, can we all take a deep breath and relax?
There’s just too much at stake here, not only for Asian
relations but for the sake of the world economy.  New Tension  The shifting balance of Asian power adds new tension to old
disputes. Thankfully, the ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  has
avoided a visit to Tokyo’s Yasukuni Shrine since taking power a
year ago. It houses memorials to war criminals and irks Asian
neighbors who say it celebrates Japan’s wartime atrocities.  This latest Japan-China stalemate is colored by
geopolitical destiny. China is steadily eclipsing Japan, and
officials in Tokyo don’t like it. Their counterparts in Beijing
aren’t about to back down now that the economic wind is at
China’s back and Asian dominance beckons.  China’s efforts to draw neighbors away from the U.S. orbit
just took a huge blow. It also has opposed U.S.-South Korea
military exercises aimed at deterring North Korea, and dismissed
regional efforts to mediate maritime territorial claims. None of
this is sitting well in Asia.  All this makes an even bigger mockery than normal of
meetings of the  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  and
Association of Southeast Asian Nations groups. They get little
done in the best of times, never mind with China and Japan
exchanging barbs and weighing trade sanctions.  No One’s Interest  Officially, this dispute is over a group of tiny
uninhabited islets and outcroppings about 200 miles (322
kilometers) off the northeast coast of Taiwan, for which there
are rival claims. The tension is a product of past conflict and
Japan’s penchant for whitewashing its World War II aggression.
Really, it’s related to Asia’s future.  Even a whiff of a chance of further confrontation will dent
Asia’s future. China is Japan’s biggest trading partner, and
Japan is a major source of the foreign-direct investment on
which China relies for its 10 percent growth.  Asia ’s two biggest
economies at loggerheads is in no one’s best interest.  China’s purchases of Japanese debt are also raising
concerns. At first, Japan was elated at a new source of demand
for its securities. Skepticism quickly set in as Japan saw China
gaining financial leverage over its economy. China’s purchases
also strengthen the yen.  Its tentacles reach far beyond bond holdings, be they in
yen or dollars. While the U.S. waged two wars and its economy
crashed, China spent the 2000s gaining access to resources --
oil, gas, metals, you name it. It has craftily filled its fuel
tank while Western powers became complacent.  China and Japan must stay focused on the big picture.
Flexing muscles won’t raise  China ’s per-capita income, which is
a 10th of Japan’s. Japan must remember that China is becoming
the growth engine on which its future rests. It’s never good to
alienate your biggest customer.  Asia’s rocky economic seas just got rougher, as even pop
stars and pandas can attest.  ( William Pesek  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 William Pesek  in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  