-- Potash Corp. Entitled to Documents, U.S. Judge Rules in BHP Takeover Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2010-09-27T16:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/potash-corp-entitled-to-documents-chicago-judge-rules-in-takeover-case.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
is entitled to documentary evidence requested from  BHP Billiton
Ltd.  in a lawsuit in which the Canadian fertilizer company seeks
to block a $40 billion hostile takeover offer.  “Unless BHP is prepared to extend the tender date, I’m not
going to stay discovery,” U.S. District Judge  David H. Coar  in
Chicago today told lawyers for both sides. BHP set a Nov. 18
deadline for Potash stockholders to accept its $130-a-share
offer.  The world’s largest fertilizer maker, Saskatoon-based
Potash sued BHP on Sept. 22, alleging that the company’s
executives had made misleading public statements to drive down
its share value, increasing the likelihood of a successful bid.  Potash asked Coar for an order barring Melbourne-based BHP
from taking further steps to acquire its shares. It also asked
the judge to direct BHP to issue a “corrective disclosure”
statement, and to give Potash shareholders 60 days to consider
it.  Coar today scheduled a hearing on the injunction request
for Nov. 4.  BHP, in a Sept. 24 court filing, called Potash’s demand
that it hand over large quantities of documents burdensome and a
“fishing expedition” and said the company waited too long to
make the request.  The company said Coar should deny the discovery demand
until he rules on a dismissal request the Australian company has
not yet submitted.  Date to Come  Coar today told BHP attorney  Michele Odorizzi  that he won’t
set any dates concerning a dismissal motion until one is
actually filed.  He said the Potash evidence demand was overly broad and
that BHP would not be required to produce documentation until
the scope of that demand had been narrowed either by mutual
agreement or the direction of a federal magistrate judge.  “We are pleased that the court has scheduled a hearing on
Nov. 4, well in advance of the Nov. 18 scheduled expiration of
our offer,” BHP said in an e-mailed press statement after
today’s court appearance. “We believe the case is without merit
and we intend to contest it vigorously, including by filing a
motion to dismiss later this week.”  Potash Corp. declined to comment on the court’s ruling.  The case is Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan v. BHP Billiton,
10-06024, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 