-- Progress Energy Stock Halted by U.S. Volatility Curb
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-09-27T20:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/progress-energy-stock-halted-by-u-s-volatility-curb-trades-later-voided.html
Progress Energy Inc. stock  trading 
was halted for five minutes following a 90 percent decline that
triggered a circuit breaker implemented after the U.S. equity
market crash in May.  The plunge was caused by an “inaccurate limit price
entered by a trading firm,” according to a statement from
Nasdaq Stock Market. Progress Energy exceeded $44.50 at 12:57:52
p.m. before more than 100 transactions during the same second
drove it to $4.57, data compiled by Bloomberg show. More than 50
trades were canceled on Nasdaq, Bloomberg data show. The stock
changed hands for $43.90 following the pause.  The decline triggered a curb implemented by U.S. exchanges
after the May 6 stock market crash erased $862 billion in less
than 20 minutes. The pause lasts five minutes for companies in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and  Russell 1000 Index  as well
as  344  exchange-traded funds once they rise or fall at least 10
percent within five minutes.  “Given that it only occurred on Nasdaq, it could have been
a fat finger trade or a fat algo making a stupid mistake,” said
 James Angel , a finance professor at Georgetown University in
Washington. Algorithms are trading strategies used to break up
larger orders into smaller pieces.  First Decline  Since the highest price for Progress in the five minutes
preceding the halt was $44.61, the stock completed a 10 percent
slump when it traded at $40.08 -- though that trade and about 80
more were executed before the circuit breaker was triggered.  “When an individual stock trading pause is triggered,
transactions could occur before the trading pause is fully
implemented on all of the exchanges,” the SEC said in its
approval of the rules on Sept. 10. When that happens, the
exchanges would review “all transactions triggering an
individual stock trading pause and subsequent transactions that
may occur before the trading pause is in effect.”  Based on  rules  for when errant orders are canceled,
exchanges must void trades that occur 5 percent lower than the
trigger price for the circuit breaker for a stock priced between
$25 and $50. Nasdaq canceled trades that took place before the
circuit breaker kicked in that were $38.10 or lower.  ‘Inaccurate Limit’  “The NYSE-listed stock was trading on the Nasdaq Stock
Market when an inaccurate limit price was entered by a trading
firm,” said  Silvia Davi , a Nasdaq spokeswoman. “No trades were
routed to other market centers. Approximately 57 trades have
been canceled.”  Progress Energy, a Raleigh, North Carolina-based electric
utility, became the 10th security paused by the volatility
circuit breaker, following Seagate Technology Plc on Sept. 21,
Nucor Corp. on Sept. 14, Intel Corp. on Aug. 27, Micron
Technology Inc. on Aug. 5, Cisco Systems Inc. on July 29,
Genzyme Corp. on July 23, Anadarko Petroleum Corp. on July 6,
Citigroup Inc. on June 29 and Washington Post Co. on June 16.  Exchanges are required to avoid executions at prices
inferior to the best bid or offer on any other venue. Once that
so-called protected quote is removed, exchanges can trade the
remainder of an order they receive on their own market even if
other venues have better-priced bids or offers, depending on
whether the customer is buying or selling the stock. The rules
for when exchanges must route an order to another market were
adopted in 2005 and went into effect in 2007.  “It looks like it’s a fairly thin stock,” Angel said
about Progress Energy. “So it would seem to be the kind of
situation where one big trade blasts through all the liquidity
in the book.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  