-- Putin Yields Choke Corporate Borrowers on Record OFZ Sales: Russia Credit
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2010-09-28T11:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/putin-yields-choke-corporate-borrowers-on-record-ofz-sales-russia-credit.html
The highest Russian government
yields relative to companies are squeezing corporate and
municipal borrowers out of the bond market as Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin ’s administration pushes debt sales to a record.  The Finance Ministry sold 36.5 billion rubles ($1.2
billion) of OFZ notes due August 2016 last week to yield 7.49
percent, topping the 7.48 percent rate offered the same day by
the city of Moscow for debt due November 2015, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investors bought 91 percent of the 40
billion rubles of OFZs offered and 42 percent of Moscow’s 17
billion-ruble sale, statements from the governments show.  Russia borrowed a record 293 billion rubles this quarter
and will seek to raise 300 billion rubles in the last three
months of this year to help finance its budget deficit after the
worst economic slump last year since the Soviet era. The
government is luring investors with yields on ruble debt within
7 basis points of a record high relative to OAO Gazprom,
Russia’s biggest company, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “I am seeing growing pressure toward higher yields,” said
 Sergei Pakhomov , who heads the state debt committee of Moscow
city government, the country’s biggest municipal borrower. “I
am not expecting it to be explosive, but it will be there
because of the Finance Ministry’s massive borrowing program.”  While the government has pared its borrowing target for
this year to about 700 billion rubles from an earlier plan of
1.2 trillion rubles, the amount is still almost 50 percent
higher than the 468.2 billion rubles issued last year, according
to Ministry of Finance  data .  Higher Borrowing  The government is stepping up domestic borrowing to help
cover its second budget shortfall in 11 years. The economy of
the world’s biggest energy supplier contracted for the second
straight month in August when seasonal factors were taken into
account, the Economy Ministry said on Sept. 22. GDP shrank 0.4
percent from the previous month, as the country’s worst drought
in five decades reduced agricultural output.  Russian government debt in rubles may climb to 5.1 trillion
rubles at the end of next year, more than double the 2.04
trillion rubles on Sept. 1, the Finance Ministry said in a draft
2011-2013 budget report published Sept. 21. Deputy Finance
Minister  Dmitry Pankin  wasn’t available to comment when
contacted at his office in Moscow yesterday.  The ministry plans to raise 48 percent of the borrowing
planned for next quarter by selling OFZs due in July 2015 and
August 2016, according to a preliminary  borrowing schedule 
published on Sept. 24.  Rising Yields  The Finance Ministry has increased the yield at each of its
auctions of 2016 OFZs since July, reaching 7.49 percent on Sept.
22 from 7.15 percent two months earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. It boosted yields on federal bonds due in July
2015 to 7.29 percent on Sept. 15 from 7 percent when it sold
them for the first time on July 28.  Sovereign medium-term bonds yielding close to 7.5 percent
will lure investors away from even the most creditworthy
corporate and municipal borrowers, said  Pavel Pikulev , a Moscow-
based fixed-income strategist in Moscow at OAO Gazprombank, the
lending arm of Russia’s gas export monopoly. Demand for bonds
from “quality borrowers” is already falling compared with
earlier this year, he said, without providing more details.  “If the Finance Ministry will act aggressively in trying
to sell close to the maximum amount of OFZs each week, then it
will probably have to offer increasingly more attractive rates
and that will crowd out other issuers and increase borrowing
costs for the corporate segment,” Pikulev said in an interview
yesterday.  Auction Shortfall  Government yields have been climbing toward the level
offered by companies. OFZs due in August 2014 traded today at a
yield of 6.69 percent, 41 basis points below the level on
Moscow-based  Gazprom ’s bonds due in June the same year. The OFZ
yield dropped to a record low of 34 basis points last month,
from 125 basis points below Gazprom in May and 197 lower in
November 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The same OFZs yield 38 basis points less than similar-
maturity ruble notes issued by Moscow-based OAO Russian
Railways, the state-owned railroad monopoly and the country’s
biggest issuer of domestic debt last year, compared with a gap
of 137 in May and 170 in January, according to prices on
Bloomberg.  Companies failed to find enough buyers in debt auctions
last week. Federal Grid Co., the Russian state monopoly for
high-voltage power transmission, said its sale of 10-year bonds
on Sept. 24 raised 30 billion rubles, less than its target of as
much as 35 billion rubles, according to a company statement. OAO
TGK-2, the power utility for northwest Russia, sold 81 percent
of the 5 billion rubles of bonds it offered on Sept. 21, raising
the rest in later auctions last week, according to a report by
Bank of Moscow yesterday.  Dollar Debt  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 gained, sending the yield
down 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.499 percent,
the lowest since Aug. 23. The yield on the country’s ruble notes
due August 2016 slid 3 basis points to 7.380 percent, the lowest
in more than three weeks.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell 1 basis point to 231, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. EMBI+ indexes. The difference compares
with 161 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 206 for Brazil,
which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  yield   spread  on Russian bonds is 55 basis points below
the average for emerging markets, down from a 15-month high of
105 in February, according to JPMorgan indexes.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose to 165 basis points
from 163 basis points, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade, cost the
same as the contracts for Turkey, which is rated four levels
lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40 basis points less
on April 20.  The ruble snapped a five-day rising streak against the
dollar, losing 0.2 percent to 30.5749 per greenback at 3:17 p.m.
in Moscow. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a
guide to expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, showed the ruble at 30.7831 in three months.  Capital Spending  Russian companies are relying on bond sales to help
refinance existing debt and fund expansion.  Capital investment 
rose by an average of 1.7 percent a month this year compared
with monthly increases of 21.8 percent in 2007 and 13.5 percent
in 2008, according to the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow.
Investment plunged an average 17.1 percent a month last year as
gross domestic product shrank at the steepest pace since 1991.  “The situation is that the majority of corporates
dramatically cut their investment programs and, therefore, used
the bond market in 2009-2010 mainly for refinancing of existing
loans and international debt,”  Nikita Patrakhin , head of
corporate finance and investment banking at ZAO Raiffeisenbank,
the Russian unit of Raiffeisen International Bank Holding AG,
said by e-mail today.  Sales of corporate bonds in rubles fell 11.5 percent in the
third quarter from the same period last year, following an 18.7
percent annual decline in the second quarter, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Companies sold 536.1 billion rubles of domestic
debt so far this year, a 19 percent increase from 2009.  Russian companies may “easily” sell another 250 billion
rubles of domestic bonds by the end of the year, according to
 Nikolay Podguzov , head of fixed-income strategy at VTB Capital
in Moscow. Corporate issuers may raise between 200 and 300
billion rubles before the end of this year, according to
Gazprombank’s Pikulev. Raiffeisenbank says companies may sell
between 200 and 250 billion rubles of bonds in the fourth
quarter.  ‘Strong Pressure’  “Demand for corporate paper depends on the path that the
Ministry of Finance takes,”  Maxim Tishin , who helps manage $350
million of debt at UFG Asset Management in Moscow, said in an
interview yesterday. “If we assume that they sell all the debt
they said they will, that will result in strong pressure on
corporate yields. In this situation one must remain cautious.”  The city of Moscow, the country’s biggest municipal
borrower, aims to sell about 33 billion rubles of debt by
yearend to help finance its budget deficit after raising 61
billion rubles since the start of 2010, according to Pakhomov.  A decline in Moscow’s ruble bonds sent the yield on
securities due in June 2014 up 20 basis points to 7.03 percent
yesterday from a record low on Aug. 20, according to prices on
Bloomberg. The yield on 2011 ruble bonds of Moscow-based OAO
Lukoil, Russia’s largest non-state oil producer, rose to 6.07
percent yesterday from a record low of 5.370 percent on July 15,
according to Bloomberg prices.  ‘Over-Liquid”  “If the Finance Ministry is aggressive to the point of
allowing OFZ yields to rise, corporate rates will also rise
because the existing narrow difference cannot compensate for a
hike in government debt yields,” Tishin said.  Even so, Russia’s “over-liquid” banking sector may help
keep borrowing costs stable, according to Raiffeisenbank’s
Patrakhin. Lenders have as much as 2 trillion rubles of
liquidity, Vadim Maximov, a Finance Ministry department head,
said at a conference in Moscow on Sept. 16.  “We do not expect yields rising in corporate bonds or in
OFZ markets,” Patrakhin said. “In our opinion, rates will stay
more or less at the current levels. We see that the banks are
over-liquid now and there is enough demand for new OFZs and
corporate bonds if and when they come to the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 