-- Treasuries Remain Higher as Two-Year Securities Sold at Record Low Yield
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-09-27T17:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/treasuries-remain-higher-as-two-year-securities-sold-at-record-low-yield.html
Treasuries  remained higher as the
government sold $36 billion of two-year securities in the first
of three note auctions this week totaling $100 billion.  The auction drew a record-low yield of 0.441 percent,
compared with the 0.446 percent forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 6 of the Federal Reserve’s 18 primary dealers. The
sale’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 3.78,
compared with an average of 3.14 at the past 10 auctions.
Treasuries rose earlier on speculation the Fed will increase
purchases of U.S. debt to boost the economy and on concern
Ireland’s finances are deteriorating.  “Today we are in a slight panic mode,” said  Tom Roth ,
senior Treasury trader in New York at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., before the sale. “Everything stacks up for the
auction to go well. People are more inclined to think QE will
happen.”  Current two-year note  yields  slid 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 0.426 percent at 1:05 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The 10-year  note yield 
dropped 9 basis points to 2.52 percent.  At today’s sale, indirect bidders, an investor class that
includes foreign central banks, purchased 39 percent of the
notes, compared with 29.2 percent at the last auction on Aug. 24
and an average of 38.1 percent at the past 10 sales. Two-year
notes drew a then record-low yield of 0.498 percent at last
month’s auction.  Direct Bidders  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, bought 10.8 percent,
compared with 12.1 percent in August and an average of 14.1
percent at the past 10 auctions.  The size of the two-year offering today was the smallest
since November 2008. The Treasury will auction $35 billion in
five-year notes tomorrow and $29 billion in seven-year debt
Sept. 29.  Bonds rose earlier as  Anglo Irish Bank Corp .’s senior debt
was cut to the lowest investment grade rating by Moody’s
Investors Service.  The company’s government-guaranteed senior bonds fell for a
sixth day as investors wagered they’ll be forced to share the
cost of bailing out the nationalized lender with taxpayers.  The Fed said in its statement after its Sept. 21 meeting
that it’s prepared “to provide additional accommodation if
needed to support economic recovery and to return inflation,
over time, to levels consistent with its mandate.”  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased in
August for a fifth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent,
matching the slowest year-over-year pace of gains since 1966,
the Labor Department said Sept. 17.  Break-Even Rate  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the maturity
known as the break-even rate, fell to 1.79 percentage points,
compared with the five-year average of 2.10 percentage points.  “Demand for Treasuries will remain fairly robust despite
the amount of supply hitting the market this week,”  Kevin Giddis , head of fixed-income sales, trading and research in
Memphis, Tennessee, at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc.,
said in a research note. The economy remains weak, and the Fed
appears poised to intensify asset purchases, he wrote.  About $315 billion to $670 billion of quantitative easing
has been priced in by the market, a team of Deutsche Bank AG
analysts including  Dominic Konstam  and  Mustafa Chowdhury  in New
York wrote in a note to clients issued Sept. 24.  The Fed completed a program in March, purchasing $1.25
trillion of agency mortgage-backed securities and about $175
billion of agency debt. The central bank was the biggest buyer
of Treasuries when it bought $300 billion of U.S. debt in 2009.  Fed Debt Buying  The central bank retained last week its stance from its
Aug. 10 meeting of keeping its portfolio of securities stable at
about $2 trillion to keep money from draining out of the
financial system. The Fed will buy inflation-indexed debt
tomorrow maturing from January 2011 to February 2040 as part of
its program to reinvest principal payments from its mortgage
holdings.  A range of 2.50 percent to 2.70 percent for the 10-year
note yield will probably hold until traders “get in touch with
their feelings” on the probability of full-scale quantitative
easing,  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial
in Memphis, wrote in a note to clients.  This year’s rally in Treasuries has pushed yields so low
that a Fed  measure  of risk shows U.S. government securities are
too expensive.  The financial model, which includes expectations for
interest rates, growth and inflation, shows Treasuries are the
most overvalued since the financial crisis in December 2008,
just before 10-year note yields almost doubled in the following
six months. Investors who held  10-year  securities through that
period lost 13 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  