-- Three-Month Euribor Unchanged Before ECB Drains Market Liquidity This Week
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2010-09-27T11:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/three-month-euribor-unchanged-before-ecb-drains-market-liquidity-this-week.html
The rate European banks say they
see each other lending at in euros for three months was
unchanged today before the European Central Bank’s loans to
institutions expire this week.  The euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, for such loans
held at 0.879 percent today, the European Banking Federation
said.  The ECB operations may offer insight into the health of the
region’s lenders, and will likely drain 225 billion euros ($303
billion) in longer-dated loans from money markets this week,
according to Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank. That
will be at least partially offset by the central bank’s regular
refinancing operations, as well as the ECB’s 3-month auction, or
tender, which offers banks as much cash as they request.  “The amount of net cash drain or injection will give an
indication of the liquidity health of banks and could have some
impact on market sentiment,” said  Orlando Green , assistant
director of capital markets strategy at Credit Agricole CIB in
London. “The three-month fixed-rate, full-allotment tender is
available to smooth out the big drain.”  The Euribor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks’ reluctance to
lend, narrowed 1 basis point to 31.8 basis points as of 11:41
a.m. in London. That’s the lowest since July 23.  The London interbank offered rate, or  Libor , for three-
month loans in euros was unchanged at 0.824 percent today,
according to data from the British Bankers’ Association.  Three-month Euribor fell to a record low of 0.634 percent
on March 31. The rate subsequently climbed to 0.905 percent on
Aug. 6, the most since July 28, 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  