-- Republican Pledge Misses Radical Fix U.S. Needs: Kevin Hassett
-- B y   K e v i n   H a s s e t t
-- 2010-09-27T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/republican-pledge-misses-radical-fix-u-s-needs-kevin-hassett.html
According to the  Intrade  political
futures market, the odds that Republicans will capture the U.S.
House of Representatives are about 74 percent. With a lead that
big, one might expect that Republicans would avoid specific
policy proposals at all cost. It’s better not to change the
conversation when you are winning.  Last Thursday, they did the next best thing, proposing a
list of cautious and moderate policies that will be
extraordinarily hard for sinking Democrats to snipe at.  The document is called the  Pledge to America . Like  Newt Gingrich ’s  Contract With America , it outlines how the
Republicans would seek to govern if granted a majority in the
next election. But the Pledge lacks the chutzpah of the original
Contract, which boldly introduced measures including a balanced-
budget requirement, welfare reductions and 12-year term limits
for members of Congress. If Gingrich tossed bombs, today’s
Republicans are tossing firecrackers.  The Pledge contains plenty of rhetoric that should appeal
to the Tea Party movement. “Though these petitions come from
different walks,” according to the document, “their message is
uniform: Washington has not been listening.” But consistent
with the view that House Minority Leader  John Boehner  is
steering the party hard toward the middle, the meat of the
document is extraordinarily moderate.  Party of No  The Pledge might refute the accusation that Republicans are
the Party of No, but it may do little to soothe the hunger for
drastic action that has driven the nation so quickly to the
right.  The first stated goal of the proposal is to promote
policies that will improve the economy and create jobs. “The
longer our government refuses to wake up and abandon its job-
killing agenda, the longer it will take to turn around and get
people working again,” it says. The biggest item under this
heading is extending the Bush tax cuts for all income levels,
rather than just lower and middle-income Americans.  Given that 31 House Democrats recently sent a  letter  to
House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  arguing the same thing, this is
hardly a radical step. Other than a measure allowing a new tax
deduction for small businesses, that’s about it for tax policy.  Next, it turns to reducing the long-term fiscal imbalances
that many economists say have caused so much business caution.
The proposal outlines four steps to curb discretionary spending.  Four Steps  The first step would be a cancellation of all unspent
stimulus money remaining from last year’s $787 billion package.
Second, they would aim to cut spending to pre-stimulus levels,
representing an immediate reduction of $100 billion. Third, they
would institute budget caps on discretionary spending to attempt
to control the future rate of spending growth. Lastly,
Republicans would institute a hiring freeze for all non-security
federal employees.  The immediate spending reduction of $100 billion sounds
rather radical, but against the backdrop of the disappearing
stimulus, it isn’t. According to the August Congressional Budget
Office  outlook , outlays for the stimulus are scheduled to be
$143 billion in 2011 and $62 billion in 2012. Getting from there
to a $100 billion drop in spending is hardly a heavy lift.  Another important objective for the House Republicans is a
repeal of the Obama health-care legislation passed earlier this
year. Republicans assert that the health-care law will kill
jobs, raise health-care costs, reduce the availability of
private insurance, increase government spending, and raise
taxes. This is perhaps the most dramatic part of the proposal.
But given how unpopular the health-care bill has been, with even
Democrats running against it, it is hardly a risky step.  Far to Left  There is a grab bag full of other proposals, covering such
items as national defense priorities, TARP, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, and legislative procedures, but none of these are
particularly noteworthy.  President  Barack Obama , it seems, has governed so far to
the left that House Republicans with such moderate goals can
still seem right wing in comparison. One worries, though, that
while this might be smart politics, it will lead to very modest
policy gains should Republicans capture Congress.  After all, the fact is that the U.S. is on very shaky
ground and strong medicine may be required to restore it to a
healthy growth path.  A number of ambitious young Republican thinkers such as
 Paul Ryan  with his  Roadmap for America’s Future  or  Devin Nunes ,
whose new book “Restoring the Republic: A Clear, Concise and
Colorful Blueprint for America’s Future” has quietly become the
leading topic of conversation in some Washington policy circles,
have argued for a different approach. They believe that
Republicans need to set a clear and aggressive agenda ahead of
the midterm election so that they can claim a mandate while
negotiating major fixes with Obama afterward.  Boehner might argue that it is prudent to start with small
steps, but in choosing this path he is sacrificing the mandate
that the Tea Party movement possibly could have provided for
more ambitious proposals.  ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Kevin Hassett  at   khassett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  