-- Rice Stockpile Increase, Futures May Help Stabilize Prices, Report Says
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-09-27T11:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/rice-stockpile-increase-futures-may-help-stabilize-prices-report-says.html
Asian countries should increase
rice reserves to help stabilize prices and improve food security
in the region which is home to about 65 percent of the world’s
hungry, according to a report today.  The development of a futures market in Singapore may also
stabilize costs and make pricing more transparent, said the
 International Rice Research Institute  and the Asia Society today.  Wheat as much as doubled since early June and corn climbed
to the highest level in two years after drought and rains ruined
crops from Russia to Canada. Rice, the staple food for half the
world, has advanced to the most expensive since May. A United
Nations price-index of 55 foods is at its highest level since
September 2008. That year, rice, wheat, corn, and soybeans
soared to records, sparking riots from Haiti to Egypt.  “As Asia’s population continues to grow and to urbanize at
unprecedented rates, food insecurity in the region could worsen
unless action is taken now,” according to the report. Declining
trends in agricultural research and rural investment may lead to
long-term food shortages, it said.  Larger stockpiles would “cushion price shocks” and give
policy makers more confidence in using the world market as a
routine source of supply and demand, it said.  Rice production needs to grow by about 4 million metric
tons a year because of population increases at current levels of
per capita consumption, said the report. Almost two-thirds of
the world’s 1.4 billion poor live in Asia and spend about half
their income on food, it said.  To meet growing demand, developing countries need to raise
total agriculture investments by 47 percent to $209 billion per
year, said the institute and the society, citing figures from
the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization. The New
York-based Asia Society is a non-profit educational organization,
according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  