-- RIM Unveils Tablet as BlackBerry Maker Chases Apple's IPad
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-09-27T20:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/rim-unveils-tablet-computer-as-blackberry-manufacturer-chases-apple-s-ipad.html
Research In Motion Ltd. , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, unveiled a tablet computer to compete
with Apple Inc.’s iPad and add a fresh source of revenue as
BlackBerry sales growth slows in the U.S.  The device, called Playbook, has a 7-inch (18-centimeter)
screen, RIM co-CEO  Jim Balsillie  said in an interview in New
York. That’s smaller than the iPad’s 9.7-inch display. The
Playbook is also slimmer and lighter than the iPad.  RIM is racing to get its tablet into stores as Hewlett-
Packard Co., Samsung Electronics Co. and  Motorola Inc.  build
similar devices in a bid to emulate the success of the iPad in
filling the gap between smartphones and laptops. Apple sold 3
million iPads in the first 80 days after the device’s April
debut, eclipsing sales of its iPod music player.  “RIM needs a tablet device because it’s necessary for all
the device makers to have a multiplatform strategy to compete in
the long-term,” said  Scott Sutherland , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities Inc. in Los Angeles. “With new devices coming out on
multiple operating systems, it’s as much defensive for RIM to
have a tablet as it is offensive.”  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, fell 51 cents to $48.36 in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The stock has declined 28 percent
this year, compared with a 38 percent gain for Apple.  Shrinking Market Share  The company is counting on the tablet to increase revenue
as the BlackBerry loses ground. RIM’s share of the smartphone
market slid to 18.2 percent in the second quarter from 19
percent a year earlier. Apple’s iPhone boosted its share to 14.2
percent from 13 percent and devices based on  Google Inc. ’s
Android software surged to 17.2 percent from 1.8 percent,
according to researcher IDC.  The BlackBerry Torch touch-screen phone, which went on sale
last month, has received mixed reviews from technology
columnists who said its screen resolution and processor speed
lag behind rivals like the iPhone and Galaxy, an Android phone
from Samsung.  “The principal market for this is busy working people,”
Balsillie said. “We’re not trying to say this is all things to
all people.”  The Playbook has been built with the BlackBerry’s security
features that made it popular with governments and Wall Street
banks, differentiating the tablet from the competition,
Balsillie said. The device’s Web browser is compatible with
 Adobe System Inc. ’s Flash technology to allow customers to watch
a bigger range of video content from the Internet, he said. The
iPad doesn’t run Flash video or animations.  New Operating System  Balsillie said he expects the device, which weighs 400
grams (0.9 pounds) and includes a front- and rear-facing camera,
will be sold through carriers and retailers, without naming any
customers. He didn’t give a price or say when it’ll go on sale.  RIM is building the device based on software built by QNX
Software Systems, a company RIM bought in April for $200
million. That marks a shift away from BlackBerry 6, the latest
version of the BlackBerry operating system, used in the Torch.  At least one person familiar with RIM’s tablet plan said
last month the company opted for QNX because BlackBerry 6
includes legacy software code from older BlackBerrys that limits
what devices can offer consumers.  While QNX’s software is used to help control the music and
media features in BMW and Porsche sports cars, it is also used
in the control systems for nuclear power plants and the U.S.
Army’s unmanned Crusher tank.  That will give it a higher level of reliability than rival
operating systems built for smartphones and adapted for tablet
devices, said Balsillie.  “It’s a performance-based OS that we migrated to tablet
and mobility as opposed to, ‘hey, I’m tablet and mobility, how
do I get high performance,’” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  