-- Russia Atomic Company Rosatom to Triple Sales by 2030
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2010-09-27T11:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/rosatom-aims-to-more-than-triple-sales-to-50-billion-by-2030.html
Rosatom Corp., Russia’s nuclear
holding company, plans to at least triple sales to $50 billion
by 2030, as China and India order more reactors and fuel and
opportunities emerge in the Middle East, said Chief Executive
Officer  Sergei Kiriyenko .  Rosatom’s reactor-building unit, ZAO Atomstroyexport, will
begin work on two more nuclear reactors at China’s Tianwan power
plant next year after Russia signed a contract at a “global
market price,” Kiriyenko told reporters today in Beijing. The
Moscow-based company, which built the first two units at
Tianwan, is also in talks to build the nation’s next-generation
fast reactors and a nuclear fuel plant, he said.  The push into the world’s second-largest economy, where
Rosatom vies with Toshiba Corp.’s Westinghouse Electric Corp.
and France’s Areva SA, as well as domestic builders, is in line
with Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s aim to make Russia the top
energy provider. The world’s biggest exporter of oil and natural
gas is bidding for nuclear power projects in the Middle East,
Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia.  No Iran Plans  “Our sales will be $50 billion at the very least, but
personally I think they may reach some $65 billion to $70
billion,” Kiriyenko said in an interview. “If we’re honest,
China’s not even the number one priority now as we have larger-
scale partnerships in India, Turkey and in the future Vietnam.”  The company has about $15 billion of sales currently,
Kiriyenko said. The Rosatom chief is in China accompanying
President Dmitry Medvedev, who arrived on Sept. 26 for a three-
day visit, the second since his presidency began in May 2008.  Rosatom has no plans at the moment to seek further reactor
orders in Iran, Kiriyenko said. Rosatom helped Iran, under
United Nations sanctions for its nuclear program, end a 36-year
quest to join the club of atomic-powered nations when it built a
1,000-megawatt reactor on the Persian Gulf coast. The start of
the reactor, near the southern city of Bushehr, makes Iran the
first country in the Middle East with a nuclear-energy facility.  Russia expects to win Jordan’s tender to build the Middle
Eastern country’s first nuclear power plant and plans to sign a
governmental accord with Vietnam next month that will allow
Rosatom to build at least two reactors, Kiriyenko said.  The nuclear company is in the running for the Czech
Republic’s tender for four reactors and plans to resume
construction of the Belene power plant in Bulgaria soon, after a
lack of funds from the client delayed work, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Beijing at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net . 