-- Roubini Sees High Risk of a U.S. Recession, Says Japan `Anemic'
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2010-09-27T08:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/roubini-sees-high-risk-of-a-u-s-recession-says-japan-s-economy-anemic-.html
New York University Professor
 Nouriel Roubini  said there’s a high probability of another
recession in the U.S., with Japan’s outlook “anemic,”
underscoring risks to the global recovery.  China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, may face
greater headwinds should there be weak growth in the U.S. and
Europe, Roubini said in Kuala Lumpur today, where he is
attending a conference. Second-quarter gross domestic product
figures for the U.S. are likely to be revised lower after
“awful” June real-estate numbers, he also said.  Austerity measures to cut debt in advanced nations are
hurting consumer and business confidence, and households in some
of the largest economies are holding back spending. Emerging
economies may have to get used to relying on domestic demand in
a period of subdued growth for developed countries, Roubini
said.  “We know the second half of the year is going to be worse
than the first half of the year because of the tailwinds to
growth from the fiscal stimulus” turning into austerity, he
said. “The main scenario is an anemic recovery, but I don’t
rule out that a double-dip will occur” in the U.S., he said.  An American jobless rate hovering near 10 percent is
shaking consumer confidence and limiting spending, the biggest
part of the economy. Federal Reserve policy makers last week
said growth is likely to be “modest in the near term” and
added that they are prepared to ease monetary policy further if
needed to support the recovery.  Recessionary Growth  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.6 percent
annual rate, the Commerce Department said last month. A U.S.
growth rate of 1 percent will feel like a recession, Roubini
said.  Steve Forbes , chief executive officer of publisher Forbes
Inc., said separately today that the U.S. won’t have another
economic contraction because political shifts, rising capital
spending and a rebound in housing will keep the economy growing.  “This isn’t going to be a repeat of the 1970s,” Forbes
said at a conference in Sydney.  Warren Buffett , chairman of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., has also ruled out the prospect of a
double-dip recession, in Sept. 14 comments at the Montana
Economic Development Summit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  