-- Rousseff Confidence Spurs Record Sales: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   T a t i a n a   B a u t z e r
-- 2010-09-29T15:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/rousseff-confidence-spurs-record-corporate-sales-brazil-credit.html
(Corrects budget deficit figure in eighth paragraph of
story published Sept. 27.)  Brazilian companies are selling a
record $8.7 billion of international bonds this month in a sign
investors are confident President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva’s
successor will continue his economic policies.  Sales by Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer,
and  Gerdau SA , Latin America’s biggest steelmaker, helped make
September the busiest month since Bloomberg started collecting
the data in 1999 and the most active before an October election.
September offerings were 29.4 percent of issuance in 2010,
compared with 15 percent in September 2006 and zero in 2002,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Dilma Rousseff  is the leading
candidate in polls ahead of the Oct. 3 vote and Lula’s chosen
heir.  “Dilma means the continuation of Lula’s government, which
in the eyes of investors outside Brazil is fine,” said  Natalia Corfield , a corporate debt analyst at ING Groep NV in New York.
“Investors have cash that they have to put to work and the
companies are taking advantage of that.”  Investors are snapping up Brazilian corporate bonds on
growing speculation Rousseff will preserve fiscal policies that
are helping fuel the fastest economic expansion in two decades.
Brazilian debt sales are part of a global push by issuers to
take advantage of record-low interest rates in Europe, Japan and
the U.S., the benchmark for emerging-market debt. Companies have
sold $124.3 billion in the U.S. market this month, on pace to
beat the $125.1 billion issued last September, the most on
record.  Little Change?  “Investors don’t even ask questions about the new
government,” said  Ricardo Leoni , Santander’s head of Brazil
debt capital markets in Sao Paulo in a phone interview. “They
assume nothing will change the trend of rising investment in
infrastructure and strong economic growth.”  The extra  yield  investors demand to buy Brazilian corporate
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries shrank 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, this month to 329, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s CEMBI Broad index.  The yield difference swelled nine basis points in the month
before the last election in 2006 and 299 before Lula’s victory
in 2002, when concern he would default upon taking office drove
borrowing costs to a record 26 percent. The yield tumbled by
mid-2003 after Lula shored up investor confidence by cutting
government spending.  Economic Growth  Latin America’s biggest economy will grow more than 7
percent this year for the first time since 1986. The annual
inflation rate has declined to 4.6 percent from 17 percent in
2003 as Lula pared the budget deficit as a percentage of gross
domestic product to 3.4 percent from as high as 6 percent and
the currency rallied 102 percent against the dollar.  “Regardless of the new government’s policies, Brazil will
continue to benefit from high commodity prices and the favorable
external environment,” said  Alexander Severino , managing
director at BTG Pactual in New York. The bank advised Telemar
Norte Leste SA on the $ 1 billion 10-year bond sale on Sept. 8.
The yield was the lowest the company ever paid, 5.5 percent, 400
basis points lower than the 9.5 percent the company paid last
year on a similar issue.  Rousseff, Lula’s former cabinet chief, maintained her 27
percentage point lead over opposition candidate Jose Serra,
according to a Vox Populi poll, reported Sept. 23 by TV
Bandeirantes. The nationwide poll of 3,000 people was taken
between Sept. 18 and 21 and has a margin of error of 1.8
percentage point, according Bandeirantes.  Brazil’s Evolution  “Brazil has evolved,” said  Sara Zervos , who oversees
$10.5 billion in emerging-market assets, including Brazilian
dollar- and real-denominated debt, at Oppenheimer Funds Inc. in
New York. “The market believes that the institutional framework
is strong enough that it won’t be changed by political change.
Throw in the fact that the Federal Reserve, Japan, and Europe
all have near-zero interest rates, and Brazilian companies can
issue at record-low levels.”  The yield gap on Brazilian government bonds over Treasuries
was unchanged at 205 basis points at 10:01 a.m. in New York,
according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting the nation’s debt against non-
payment for five years with credit-default swaps was unchanged
at 116 last week, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real rose 0.1 percent to 1.70097 per dollar at 10:02
a.m., from 1.7109 on Sept. 24.  Futures Contracts  The yield on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts due
in January fell one basis point to 11.53 percent after touching
a six-week high of 11.56 last week.  Brazilian companies have issued a record $29.6 billion this
year, compared with $22 billion in all of 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, was the biggest corporate
borrower this month, issuing $1.75 billion of 10- and 30-year
bonds in its largest offering since 2006, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gerdau , in Porto Alegre, sold $1.25
billion of bonds that mature in 2021 last week.  Issuance is set to rise further as  Braskem SA , Latin
America’s largest petrochemicals producer, plans to sell
perpetual bonds overseas as soon as this week, said a person
familiar with the transaction who declined to be identified
because the terms aren’t set.  No Election Blip  BR Properties SA , the Brazilian property developer that
sold shares to the public for the first time in March, and
Votorantim Participacoes SA, a Sao Paulo-based industrial
conglomerate are planning sales of perpetual bonds, according to
two people familiar with the discussions.  “Unlike all previous times in history, the election is not
causing a blip,” Zervos said. “The fundamentals that are
driving the flows will not change for a long time -- U.S. rates
are low and the fundamentals are great in emerging markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
 Tatiana Bautzer  m in Sao Paulo at 
 tbautzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  