-- Russia, China Expand Relations With Gas, Oil Accords
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-27T07:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/russia-can-provide-gas-that-china-needs-sechin-says-update1-.html
Russia signed agreements with China,
the world’s biggest energy consumer, on oil, gas, coal and
nuclear power today to deepen economic ties.  Sino-Russian cooperation is “at a new start,” Chinese
President  Hu Jintao  said at a joint media briefing in Beijing,
calling for further “optimizing” of relations.  Dmitry Medvedev ,
who’s making his second presidential trip to China since May
2008, said the accords add “impetus to partnership.”  Medvedev is leading a group of delegates including  OAO
Gazprom  Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  on a three-day
visit to China that ends tomorrow to expand bilateral
cooperation in areas including banking, anti-terrorism and
energy. Russia and China have agreed on all the main conditions
of a natural gas supply contract, except the price, Energy
Minister  Sergei Shmatko  said in Beijing.  “Energy cooperation is something that’s clearly in both
parties’ interest,”  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong, told Bloomberg Television. “For
Russia looking to expand its energy exports, Asia and China
particularly is the key market for both oil and gas growth.”  Russia may start delivering natural gas to China in 2015 if
the nations can agree on all aspects of their cooperation
including infrastructure and sources of delivery, Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Sechin  told reporters in Beijing earlier today.
Russia can provide China with all the gas that it needs,
according to Sechin.  Meeting China’s Needs  “There are no limitations for growth of gas consumption in
China,” Sechin said. Russia is a natural partner and is ready
to supply China “in full volume” what the country needs for
economic development, he said.  Commercial contracts with China, which include gas pricing
terms, may be signed by the middle of next year, Sechin said.
Gazprom had aimed to send its first gas supplies to China by
pipeline in 2011.  “The key sticking point is really on price,” Beveridge
said. “The Russians will be looking very much at linking their
gas exports to oil prices in China in a similar way to the way
they did in Europe.”  China, the world’s biggest polluter, wants to triple the
use of gas to about 10 percent of energy consumption by 2020 to
cut reliance on coal and oil, which produce more emissions. Oil
imports gained 48 percent last year and have almost doubled
since 2005, according to data from the Chinese customs.  Nuclear Cooperation  Russia agreed last year to supply China with oil for 20
years in return for a $25 billion credit to state oil company
 OAO Rosneft  and the national oil pipeline monopoly OAO Transneft.  Commercial oil delivery through the Skovordino-Mohe Sino-
Russian pipeline will begin on Jan. 1, Transneft President
 Nikolai Tokarev  said today. China had asked to increase supplies
to 30 million metric tons annually from the agreed 15 million
tons, he said. Russia hasn’t agreed to that yet, Tokarev said.  Sechin, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s deputy for energy,
attended the groundbreaking ceremony last week for a $5 billion
oil refinery in Tianjin to be built by Rosneft and China
National Petroleum Corp. In August, Putin opened the first
section of the East Siberian Pacific Ocean pipeline, which will
have a branch line supplying China. China’s total crude oil
imports reached 204 million tons last year.  Russia also plans to begin construction of two additional
1,000-megawatt nuclear reactors at China’s Tianwan complex next
year,  Sergei Kiriyenko , head of Rosatom Corp., the nation’s
nuclear holding company, said today.  ZAO Atomstoyexport, Russia’s nuclear reactor builder,
completed construction of two units in 2007 at the Tianwan plant
on the coast of Shanghai, under a 1997 contract.  China and Russia may expand cooperation on nuclear fuel,
including jointly developing uranium projects in Russia or
third-party countries, Kiriyenko told reporters.  Russia may also sign an accord to help China build a
nuclear fast-reactor, Kiriyenko said. Fourth-generation
technology reactors produce minimal radioactive waste and are
fuel efficient.  -- Lyubov Pronina  and  Chua Baizhen  in Beijing. Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Beijing at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net . 