-- HSBC Picks Boxer Turned Risk-Manager Gulliver as CEO
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2010-09-28T02:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/hsbc-turns-to-former-boxer-risk-manager-gulliver-amid-succession-struggle.html
As the credit crisis mounted in
2008,  Stuart Gulliver  moved from his executive office on the
42nd story of  HSBC Holdings Plc ’s London office to the trading
floor on the fourth so he could oversee his employees directly.  Gulliver, named chief executive officer last week, worked
his way up over 30 years from treasury department roles in
London and Asia, where he learned to manage funding, liquidity
and interest-rate holdings. That training in risk helped him
steer HSBC’s traders through the Asian financial crisis of the
1990s and allowed the securities unit he oversees to survive the
subprime bubble with smaller losses than competitors including
Barclays Capital.  “He’s not a massive wheeler-dealer or risk taker,” said
 Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF Global Ltd. in London, who has
tracked the industry for more than 15 years and has a
“neutral” rating on HSBC. “He was in charge of protecting and
making the most without risking HSBC’s balance sheet.”  Gulliver, who made HSBC’s investment bank into its fastest-
growing unit, is counting on those risk-management skills to
reassure investors about his appointment following the
departures of CEO  Michael Geoghegan  and Chairman  Stephen Green 
in the biggest management shakeup in the bank’s 145-year history.
 HSBC  is the worst-performing U.K. bank stock this year, trailing
Barclays Plc and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  “You should not expect a significant change,” Gulliver,
51, told reporters on a conference call last week. “It’s
important to take away from this that the processes that Mike
has started and Stephen has started I will continue.”  Oxford Boxer  HSBC spokesman  Adrian Russell  declined to make Gulliver
available for an interview.  Staying still may not be enough. Gulliver, a boxer at
Oxford University, faces calls from investors to boost revenue
from Asia, where it lags behind competitor Standard Chartered
Plc.  “He needs to do more to consolidate the revenue that the
bank gets from Asia,” said  Richard Hunter , head of U.K.
equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc, a London-based asset
manager and stockbroker. “Over the longer term that is where
you are going to see the better growth opportunities.”  HSBC earned about 30 percent of its revenue from Asia last
year, compared with 36 percent in Europe and 20 percent from
North America. Standard Chartered makes 67 percent of its
revenue from Asia.  HSBC Shares Down  “What always worries me on HSBC is the lack of growth and
the lack of real emerging market growth because the bank is
still more exposed to Western markets than Eastern markets,”
said  Arturo de Frias , an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in
London. “That is what will have to change for HSBC to do really,
really well.”  HSBC  dropped  6.8 percent in London trading this year,
making it the worst performing U.K. bank stock this year. By
comparison, RBS has risen 67 percent, Lloyds Banking Group Plc
has gained 50 percent, Barclays has climbed 13 percent and
 Standard Chartered  advanced 21 percent in the last nine months.
HSBC fell 0.8 percent at 10:42 a.m. in Hong Kong today, giving
it a market value of 116 billion pounds ($184 billion).  Gulliver also faces a British government inquiry into the
industry that may recommend banks separate their investment
banking units from their consumer divisions. He threatened this
month to move HSBC’s headquarters out of the U.K. if the
government decides to break up the banks.  Robert Diamond  Gulliver was the second investment banker to be named CEO
of a U.K. bank in a month after Barclays promoted  Robert Diamond 
on Sept. 7, a decision that prompted criticism from politicians
including Business Secretary  Vince Cable  and sent the stock down
3 percent that day. HSBC rose 0.4 percent the day Gulliver was
appointed, and he escaped the political attacks that greeted
Diamond.  Diamond was in his mid-40s when he was hired by Barclays’s
then-CEO Martin Taylor to run the investment bank, which was
called Barclays de Zoete Wedd, or BZW, at the time. Diamond was
one of a group of people who left Credit Suisse First Boston
earlier in the year and has said that even before he joined
Barclays he had made so much money that “I didn’t need to work
again.”  Gulliver, by contrast, joined HSBC after graduating from
 Oxford  in 1980 with a law degree. He has stayed at the bank his
entire career.  On the Road  In the tradition of HSBC bankers whose careers can
sometimes resemble foreign-office diplomats, Gulliver served
early stints in far-flung offices from Kuala Lumpur to the
United Arab Emirates. By the age of 28, he was running HSBC’s
London dealing room, and seven years later was responsible for
19 dealing rooms across Asia.  Gulliver took over the bank’s treasury functions in 1994.
At the time, each country in Asia managed its treasury needs
separately, said Mike Powell, who worked at HSBC for 23 years
and ran the trading business under Gulliver before leaving in
2008. Gulliver pushed to integrate the treasury businesses
across borders to help the bank better manage its risk exposures
throughout the region, Powell said.  “That became absolutely key during the financial crisis in
’98,” Powell said. “Many people can see risks, but they’re not
good at executing and the thing about Stuart is that he’s very
good at getting things done.”  In 2003, Gulliver was named head of HSBC’s global corporate,
investment banking and markets division with  John Studzinski ,
who departed in 2006, leaving Gulliver in sole charge of the
global investment banking and trading business. Studzinski left
HSBC after the firm moved his debt and stock underwriting
responsibilities to Gulliver.  Highest Paid  Revenue at Gulliver’s global corporate, investment banking
and markets division almost doubled to $21.9 billion last year
from $11.5 billion in 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The unit’s operating income jumped to $10.1 billion
from $4.9 billion in the period.  “He is smart and very competitive, and in spite of his
treasury and markets roots, the bank’s DNA runs right through
him,” said  Martin Cubbon , CEO of Hong Kong developer Swire
Properties Ltd., who has known Gulliver since the late 1980s.  Gulliver was HSBC’s highest paid executive director in 2009,
receiving a 9 million-pound bonus on top of his 800,000 pound
salary, according to HSBC’s 2009 annual report. His payout
dwarfed the 4 million-pound bonus Geoghegan, 57, received.
Geoghegan, who is quitting HSBC at the end of the year after 37
years, donated his bonus to charity, while Gulliver kept his.
Green declined a bonus.  Lehman Sidestepped  HSBC fared better than many competitors during the credit
crisis after Gulliver cut its exposure to the banking industry
in 2006 and minimized its dealings with  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  in the months before the U.S. bank’s collapse.  Since 2007, HSBC has had impairments of about $5.2 billion
at its investment banking unit, led by Gulliver. That is almost
half the level of losses reported by Diamond’s  Barclays Capital .  Gulliver “aggressively made sure that HSBC had sufficient
liquidity to fund its operations,” Powell said. “A lot of this
stuff we prepped in Asia. We saw it in the Asian market and the
financial crisis was a replay on a bigger scale.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gavin Finch  in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew MacAskill  in London at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  