-- Scots Pessimism Prevails as Rock, Rates Still Split Economists
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2010-09-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/scots-pessimism-prevails-as-rock-rates-still-split-economists.html
Economists at Edinburgh’s two
largest fund management companies are divided by more than the
castle on a volcanic rock that separates their offices.  Richard Dingwall-Smith  at Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership reckons spending by companies will spur economic
growth and force central banks to start raising interest rates
in the second quarter of 2011.  Douglas Roberts  at Standard Life
Investments said he would bet on rates staying on hold through
all of next year because the recovery won’t be strong enough.  “The question at the moment is: are there convincing signs
that final demand, consumption and investment are picking up?”
Roberts said in an interview at his office in the Scottish
capital. “At present there is scant evidence of that.”  Standard Life’s more pessimistic view on the pace of the
global economic recovery during the past year has been borne out
as concern mounts among investors that government spending cuts
and rising debt costs will stifle growth.  Roberts said in July last year that he expected interest
rates in the U.S., U.K. and euro region to remain “lower for
longer,” while Dingwall-Smith forecast central banks would
start increasing borrowing costs in the third quarter of 2010.  Standard Life  and  Scottish Widows  are based less than two
miles apart in Edinburgh, whose center is dominated by its
looming medieval castle. Together they oversee about 280 billion
pounds ($440 billion) of investments.  ‘Uncertain’ Outlook  “The outlook is a bit more uncertain than we would have
hoped at this stage,” said Dingwall-Smith. “The world economy
has moved on, it has recovered. Probably we slightly misread how
the major central banks would respond.”  Scottish Widows’s prediction for global interest rates is
more in line with the consensus than Standard Life’s.  Economists expect the Federal Reserve to raise U.S.
interest rates in the third quarter of next year by a quarter of
a percentage point, according to the average forecast. They
predict the Bank of England and European Central Bank will do
the same in the second quarter, according to a survey compiled
by Bloomberg.  Roberts is concerned rising foreclosures in the U.S. and
the effect of spending cuts on household incomes will prevent a
pickup in consumer demand and stifle growth. Employment also is
showing little sign of increasing compared with the recovery
from recession in the 1980s, he said.  Delayed Recovery  “It’s just very uncertain,” Roberts said last week.
“We’re way behind in terms of the stage of the recovery we’re
at. The consumer may be spending, but he’s spending on things he
needs, not on things he may desire.”  There was an unexpected decline in consumer confidence in
September in the U.S., with the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary index of sentiment dropping to a one-year
low. A Fed report this month showed household wealth declined
2.8 percent in the second quarter as stock prices fell.  Economic growth weakened in that quarter more than
previously estimated, expanding at a 1.6 percent annualized
pace, down from an earlier estimate of 2.4 percent, revised
figures from the Commerce Department on Aug. 27 showed.  “If you’re looking at it globally, there’s nothing there
that tells me that any of the central banks are at a point of
tightening monetary policy,” Roberts said.  The Fed’s  target rate  has been held at 0.25 percent since
December 2008, while the ECB has kept its main  refinancing rate 
at 1 percent since May 2009 and the Bank of England last trimmed
its  benchmark rate  in March of last year to 0.5 percent.  Budget Cuts  While the U.K. economy had its  biggest growth  spurt in the
second quarter since 2001, expanding 1.2 percent from the
previous three months, consumer demand is fragile. Retail sales
unexpectedly fell in August, the first decline since January.
Planned government spending cuts to reduce the record budget
deficit may further hurt demand.  Scottish Widows expects growth worldwide to accelerate as
companies invest more in their businesses, using cash reserves
accumulated as they cut debt and costs during the recession.  “The single element driving our positive view is that
capital spending will recover from exceptionally depressed
levels,” said Dingwall-Smith. “The biggest concern is that a
lack of confidence prevents the upturn continuing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  