-- Seattle Genetics, Takeda Drug Shrinks Lymphoma Patients' Tumors in Study
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2010-09-27T20:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/seattle-genetics-takeda-drug-shrinks-lymphoma-patients-tumors-in-study.html
Seattle Genetics Inc.  said its two-
drug therapy, developed with Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., cut
tumor size by at least half in 75 percent of patients with
 Hodgkin’s lymphoma , a cancer of the immune system. Seattle
Genetics rose the most in three years in Nasdaq trading.  The 102 people in the company-funded trial had advanced
lymphoma and hadn’t been cured by previous treatments, said  Clay Siegall , president and chief executive officer of Bothell,
Washington-based Seattle Genetics. The benefit of the therapy
lasted at least six months for most patients, he said.  The drug, SGN-35, uses an antibody to home in on cancer
cells and deliver a payload of a cancer-killing agent. Seattle
Genetics plans to submit a marketing application to the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in the first half of 2011, Siegall
said. Approval would make it the first of a new generation of
drugs that combine antibodies and anti-cancer agents, according
to  Jason Kantor , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in San
Francisco.  “Results were better than expectations, and we believe FDA
approval in 2011 is highly likely,” Kantor said in a note today
to clients.  Seattle Genetics  rose $2.14, or 18 percent, to $14.30 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the
greatest single-day increase since January 2007.  Takeda  rose 0.5
percent to 4,030 yen in Tokyo trading today.  1,300 Deaths  About 8,500 people in the U.S. are diagnosed with Hodgkin’s
disease every year and 1,300 die, according to the  National
Cancer Institute . Improved therapies have made Hodgkin’s more
treatable in recent years, with about 85 percent of patients
responding to the treatments, Siegall said. The 15 percent who
don’t respond generally die within two to three years, he said.  The companies will seek accelerated approval for SGN-35
based on this study, the second of three rounds of testing
generally required by U.S. regulators, because the medicine
addresses an unmet medical need.  The trial aimed to see if the drug could cut the size of
the tumor in half, called a partial response, or make it
disappear, a complete response. Patients received an injection
of the medicine, calibrated to their weight, every three weeks
for up to 48 weeks.  Three-quarters of the patients had at least a partial
response, according to a company statement. Siegall declined to
be more specific and said a full report would be made at a
future medical meeting.  ‘Few Options’  “We believe the data are really promising for these
patients who have a very poor prognosis and very few options,”
Siegall said in a telephone interview yesterday. The drug “has
the potential to be the first major advancement for treating
people” whose cancer has returned or who didn’t respond to
previous treatments, he said.  The company didn’t disclose rates of side effects. Some
patients experienced fatigue; reduced white blood cell counts;
diarrhea; nausea; and peripheral neuropathy, a nerve condition
that causes pain and numbness in the limbs,  Peggy Pinkston , a
Seattle Genetics spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The side
effects in general weren’t severe, she said.  The drug, also known as brentuximab vedotin, is designed to
use an antibody that recognizes and links to a receptor found on
the surface of cancer cells and only minimally present or absent
on healthy cells, Siegall said. Linked to the antibody is a drug
that kills cells by keeping them from dividing and growing.  “It targets the cell population that we’re trying to
eliminate without impacting, or only minimally impacting, normal
tissue,” Siegall said.  Osaka, Japan-based Takeda is jointly developing the drug
with Seattle Genetics and sharing development costs. Seattle
Genetics will market the treatment in the U.S. and Canada and
Takeda has rights in the rest of the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 