-- Segway Owner's Death Adds to Safety, Image Challenges
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2010-09-28T00:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/segway-company-owner-heselden-dies-in-u-k-after-driving-segway-off-cliff.html
Segway Inc.  may face fresh
challenges trying to broaden the appeal of its transporter after
the company’s owner died driving the vehicle off a cliff.  Jimi Heselden , the British millionaire who owned the
company, accidentally drove a Segway off a precipice and into a
river, according to police in West Yorkshire, England, where he
had his estate. He was pronounced dead at the scene, and the
two-wheeled vehicle was recovered from the water.  The Segway, hailed as a revolutionary invention when it
debuted nine years ago, has struggled to expand beyond its
status as a niche product. Though some law enforcement and
sightseeing groups have embraced the vehicle, a $6,000-plus
 price tag  has prevented it from catching on with consumers.
Product recalls and restrictions by cities such as New York also
have hampered the Segway’s sales.  While the accident may have had nothing to do with the
Segway’s design, the company could use it to highlight safety
precautions, said  Glenn Bunting , managing director of public-
relations firm  Sitrick and Co.   “They have to use it as teachable moment for their
customers,” said Bunting, whose firm specializes in crisis
management. “What we would recommend is: Thoroughly investigate
how this tragedy occurred, and from it, not only do you learn,
but use it for an opportunity to enhance safety measures.”  Safety Precautions  The San Francisco-based  Electric Tour Co. , which has a
fleet of 48 Segways, requires all riders to wear bright-green
vests and helmets, said owner Brian Huber. The nearly six-year-
old business also spends as much as 45 minutes on safety
training. Since the city doesn’t allow Segways on sidewalks, the
company takes extra precautions, Huber said.  “We don’t let anyone leave our facility unless we think
they’re a competent rider,” he said in an interview. “Something
like this we will use as another reminder to stay away from
treacherous objects.”  Heselden crashed into the River Wharfe in West Yorkshire
while riding around his estate on Sept. 26, said Neil Wardley, a
police spokesman. The accident isn’t believed to be suspicious,
Wardley said yesterday.  The 62-year-old, who made his fortune from the Leeds,
England-based  Hesco Bastion Ltd. , bought the Segway business
this year. He had an estimated personal fortune of 166 million
pounds ($263.2 million), according to the latest Sunday Times
Rich List.  ‘Tragic Accident’  “Our family has been left devastated by the sudden and
tragic loss of a much loved father and husband,” Heselden’s
family said in an e-mail. “There is absolutely nothing to
suggest it was anything other than a  tragic accident .”  Segway, based in Bedford, New Hampshire, didn’t immediately
return requests for comment after business hours.  Dean Kamen ,
who invented the Segway, is traveling internationally and
couldn’t be reached, said Dennis Garrigan, a spokesman for
Kamen’s nonprofit organization. He no longer works at Segway.  The death marks a low point for a product that was greeted
with hype initially, followed by tepid demand and later marred
by recalls. The Segway, a two-wheeled, self-balancing
transportation device, allows riders to remain upright and steer
with body movements.  The invention gained attention even before it was unveiled
in December 2001, spurred by leaked quotes from a book proposal
that ran on the Inside.com news site. The proposal quoted  Apple
Inc.  Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  saying people will
design cities around the invention and venture capitalist  John Doerr  comparing its significance to the World Wide Web.  Book Deal  Harvard Business School Press paid $250,000 for the book
deal before it knew what the invention was, according to the New
York Times. The company also raised $90 million from venture
capitalists. At the time, Kamen tried to tamp down the
excitement, saying the book-proposal quotes were taken out of
context.  Segway spent about $100 million developing the vehicle,
which won early support from government and corporate customers.
Law-enforcement departments and the U.S. Postal Service started
testing Segways in 2002, and Amazon.com Inc. began taking orders
that year. Michelin North America Inc., the National Park
Service and the city of Atlanta also pledged to use transporter.  Prices of between $5,000 and $10,000 limited the appeal,
and cities such as New York restricted where people could drive
their Segways. In 2003, President  George W. Bush  was
photographed leaping from one of the vehicles after losing
control of it in Maine. In the same year, the company recalled
all 6,000 of its transporters after a safety report found
operators risk falling as batteries ran out.  Switching Direction  In September 2006, the company voluntarily recalled 23,500
of its scooters because they could suddenly reverse, causing the
rider to fall. The wheels could unexpectedly switch direction
when the rider leaned the transporter back to slow down, get off
and get on again in a short period of time.  More than 500 organizations worldwide now use the
transporters for policing and security, according to  the
company . Consumers make up 60 percent of sales, with 350 retail
outlets in 80 countries. Forty-four states allow Segways to
operate in the same spaces as walkers and bikers, according to
the company.  Segways have built a fan base among sightseeing  tour  groups
and  enthusiasts  such as Apple co-founder  Steve Wozniak , who
 participates  in a Segway polo league.  Huber, at Electric Tour Co. in San Francisco, said Segway
crashes are rarer than bicycle accidents. When they do happen,
they typically result in the same kind of scrapes and bumps that
bike riders get, he said. Still, the transporters can instill an
inflated sense of confidence, Huber said.  “People think Segways are like hovercrafts, that if you bang
them into a curb you’re not going to fall,” he said. “They’re
not magic.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan Flinn  in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  