-- Sell Hungarian Swaps to Exploit `Fundamental Cheapness,' UniCredit Says
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-09-27T10:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/sell-hungary-swaps-on-fundamental-cheapness-unicredit-says.html
Investors should sell Hungarian
credit default swaps as the market is “excessively bearish”
considering the country’s improved economic situation, UniCredit
SpA said in a weekly note dated Sept. 24.  Investors should sell protection against non-payment on
Hungary’s bonds for five years at 343 basis points “to exploit
its fundamental cheapness,” the Italian bank recommended.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Premier  Viktor Orban ’s Sept. 13 pledge to cut next year’s
budget deficit to no more than 3 percent of gross domestic
product has boosted the forint and lowered the cost of default
protection on the country’s debt. The forint has rallied 2.2
percent since then, the most among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Credit default swaps dropped to
333 basis points on Sept. 24, the lowest in a month.  The pledge marked an about-face after a row with the
International Monetary Fund and the European Union that ended
with loan talks breaking off in July as the government sought to
widen the deficit to boost economic growth after the worst
recession in 18 years. Details of the 2011 budget will be
presented in mid-October, following local elections set for Oct.
3.  ‘Pull the Trigger’  “We believe the Hungarian CDS is trading too wide compared
to its own rating, fundamental backdrop and also compared to
other Hungarian asset classes,” UniCredit said in a separate
note to clients today. “Waiting till the local election might
be too late and hence we decided to pull the trigger already.”  The currency dropped to the lowest in more than a year and
default swaps rose after the IMF, which helped extend a 20
billion-euro ($26 billion) bailout in 2008, failed to endorse
the government’s budget plans in July.  Hungary will probably leave its benchmark interest rate
unchanged today for a fifth month as the government’s commitment
to fiscal rigor helped curbed risk costs, reducing the
likelihood of a rate hike. The forint traded little changed at
277.35 per euro as of 11:02 a.m. in Budapest.  Money-market investors have scaled back bets on Hungarian
rate increases this year. Forward-rate agreements used to lock
in interest costs three months from now indicate Hungarian rates
will increase by 31 basis points, based on the difference
between the contracts and the three-month  Budapest Interbank
Offered Rate . That’s down from as much as 75 basis points in
rate rise  expectations  on Sept. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  