-- Hedge Funds Senrigan, Turiya Are Said to Boost Asia Assets as Returns Lag
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2010-09-27T01:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/senrigan-turiya-janchor-are-said-to-boost-assets-as-asia-hedge-funds-lag.html
Senrigan Capital Group Ltd. , backed
by Blackstone Group LP, and Turiya Advisors Asia, founded by a
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  trader, at least doubled their
assets, according to four people familiar with the matter, in a
year when Asian hedge funds are the world’s worst performers.  Senrigan , an event-driven fund based in Hong Kong, tripled
assets to about $615 million by early September from its
November inception, according to two of the people, who declined
to be identified because the information is not public. Turiya,
started by  Davide Erro , a former Asia head of Goldman Sachs’s
arbitrage desk, doubled assets to $320 million after it began
trading in April out of Hong Kong, the other two people said.  Janchor Partners Ltd., the Hong Kong-based manager started
in January by the former Asia head of the Children’s Investment
Fund Management UK LLP, increased assets fivefold.  They are among at least four of Asia’s biggest startups
this year luring investors concerned that the pace of global
economic growth will stall by assembling large teams and
investing founders’ capital. The 75 new Asia-focused hedge funds
set up since 2009 oversee an average $29 million, with only 5
percent of last year’s startups increasing assets to $100
million, according  Eurekahedge Pte .  “The asset-raising environment for Asian hedge funds has
been incredibly challenging for close to three years,” said
 Marlin Naidoo , head of the hedge fund capital group for Asia-
Pacific at  Deutsche Bank AG  in Hong Kong. “Smaller funds need
to significantly outperform or ran very differentiated
strategies in order to get noticed.”  The Eurekahedge Asian Hedge Fund Index dropped 0.4 percent
through August, the worst performer of six regional indexes
tracked by the Singapore-based data provider.  Janchor, Prudence  The Janchor Partners Pan Asian Fund increased assets to
$200 million from $40 million at inception, with most
investments locked up for three years, Chief Investment Officer
 John Ho  said. The long-short fund, which bets on rising and
falling stocks, gained 18 percent as of Sept. 24 since inception,
he said.  “With the benefit of long-term capital, we are able to
execute our strategy of carefully managing the risk of the
portfolio while delivering solid returns on both our longs and
shorts,” said Ho.  Prudence Investment Management (Hong Kong) Ltd. , a debt
manager based in Hong Kong, tripled assets to more than HK$1.3
billion ($154 million) since starting its first fund in early
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Senrigan Chief Investment Officer  Nick Taylor , Erro and
Prudence Chief Investment Officer Chao Liu declined to comment.  Average Investments  The average institutional investment in a hedge fund is $10
million, said  Paul Smith , a Hong Kong-based managing director of
asset manager and hedge fund distributor Triple A Partners Ltd.  “Many smaller Asian managers -- both startups and existing
managers -- are simply non-investable for most institutions,”
said Smith. “Smaller managers are as a result dying on the
vine.”  Investors added more than $360 million of new capital to
Asian hedge funds in the second quarter, bringing industry
assets to $74.4 billion and offsetting part of the $700 million
of net redemptions in the first quarter, according to Chicago-
based data provider Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Worldwide investors are gravitating toward the largest
managers. Almost all of the $23 billion of new inflows into the
global industry in the first half went to firms managing more
than $5 billion of assets, HFR said in a statement Sept. 15.  Returns  A lot of investors are reluctant to represent more than 10
percent of a manager’s portfolio so they can control risks, said
 Patric de Gentile-Williams , chief operating officer of  FRM
Capital Advisors Ltd. , a unit of the $8.5 billion, London-based
fund of hedge funds group  Financial Risk Management Ltd .  Senrigan’s fund, which invests in companies going through
events such as mergers and spinoffs, returned 4 percent this
year through August and 5 percent since it started investments
in November, two of the people said. Turiya declined to reveal
its returns.  The  Prudence Enhanced Income Fund  returned 98 percent in
2009, more than triple the 27 percent gain of the  Eurekahedge
Asian Hedge Fund Index . The fund returned 22 percent in the
first eight months this year, according to Bloomberg data.  Starting Capital  Senrigan’s partners contributed $45 million of their own
money toward the fund at the start and Blackstone, the world’s
biggest buyout firm, initially invested $150 million. Turiya’s
partners chipped in at least $100 million of the assets at the
beginning.  Taylor oversaw more than $1 billion for Modal Capital
Partners, a hedge fund of Credit Suisse Group AG that he helped
set up in 1999, and for Citadel Investment Group LLC.  Erro previously looked after $1.7 billion to $3.8 billion
at predecessor Gandhara Capital and ran more than a billion
dollars of investments while heading the Asia global arbitrage
desk of Goldman Sachs, and at Deutsche Bank.  Taylor assembled a team of 11 people at the outset that has
grown to 19. Chief Operating Officer Jeff Levy was one of the 20
people Turiya had in place at the start, while Ho’s team of nine
included dedicated operational staff and investment
professionals who had worked with him previously.  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bei Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  