-- Palestinians Give U.S. Time to Persuade Israel to Resume Freeze
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-09-27T19:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/shaath-says-palestinians-giving-u-s-time-to-persuade-israel-on-building.html
Palestinian Authority negotiator
 Nabil Shaath  said Palestinians are giving the U.S. time to
persuade Israel to resume a building freeze in West Bank
settlements that they have said is critical to peace talks.  “We want to give the Americans four to five days, a week,
to see if they can get Mr. Netanyahu to seriously reconsider the
moratorium,” Shaath said in an interview in Paris hours after
the freeze ended. Direct talks that started in Washington on
Sept. 2 will be on hold until it is clear what Israel will do,
Shaath said.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and United Nations
Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  expressed regret today that Israel
didn’t extend the moratorium on construction in areas claimed by
the Palestinians. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has
said his government isn’t planning to renew the freeze.  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , who has said
in the past that a resumption of construction would prompt him
to walk away from negotiations, said he would confer with other
Arab leaders before reacting to the end of the suspension.  “We would have liked to see a moratorium that lasts
another three or four months, but we won’t have rapid
reaction,” Abbas said in Paris after meeting French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy . He said he plans on meet with the Arab League
on Oct. 4 to discuss the future of peace talks.  Building Crews  Israeli building crews began work today at settlements
including Ariel, Oranit, Tekoa, Neve Daniel and Adam, according
to  Naftali Bennett , director-general of the Yesha Council, which
represents the 300,000 settlers in the West Bank.  “If you can’t give up deepening the occupation, what does
it say about your willingness to negotiate?” Shaath said. “We
have every indication the U.S. is committed to the peace
process. Let’s see what they can do.”  Shaath said the Palestinians are willing to accept a
shorter moratorium than the one that just expired and won’t
accept a deal that allows more settlement building.  “We want a return to the same moratorium,” he said. “It
wasn’t perfect, it wasn’t watertight, but we accepted it. If we
allow building in some areas, it would be giving up land before
negotiations.”  U.S. Middle East envoy  George Mitchell  is flying to the
region tonight to discuss with the parties about how to proceed,
State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  told reporters in
New York.  Move Forward  Netanyahu said in a statement early today that he is
willing to continue uninterrupted contacts over the next few
days to find a way to allow peace talks between Israel and the
Palestinians to move forward.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  met today in Tel Aviv
with  Tony Blair , the Middle East coordinator for the so-called
Quartet of powers supporting the peace talks, which includes the
U.S., the UN, Russia and the European Union, his office said.  The freeze, declared by Netanyahu in November in what he
said was a bid to bring Palestinians to the negotiating table,
excluded about 3,000 homes as well as some public buildings.  Environment Minister  Gilad Erdan , a Likud member, said on
Sept. 25 that the prime minister wouldn’t have a Cabinet
majority to extend the freeze.  Israel has built about 120 settlements in the West Bank
since the late 1960s. Another 100 smaller settlements, which
Israel calls outposts, were built during the past decade. The
United Nations says settlements are illegal, and the
International Committee of the  Red Cross  says they breach the
Fourth Geneva Convention governing actions on occupied
territory. President  Barack Obama  has said the settlements
aren’t legitimate.  Israel says settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to anyone
before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and therefore
isn’t occupied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net 
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 