-- Shell Invests $2 Billion to End Nigerian Gas Flaring After Delay
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2010-09-27T08:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/shell-invests-2-billion-to-end-nigerian-gas-flaring-after-delay.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and partners
are investing $2 billion in a program to end natural gas flaring
in Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, after the projects
were delayed because of funding and security problems.  Shell Petroleum Development Co. of Nigeria, or SPDC, has
invested more than $3 billion since 2002 to cut flaring of gas,
which is pumped together with oil, said Alice Ajeh, a Nigeria-
based spokeswoman at Shell. Flaring decreased 65 percent between
2002 and 2009, partly because of lower production, she said.  “Due to security and funding issues, especially funding
shortfall from our majority partner, a lot of the projects were
stalled, or delayed,” Ajeh said in  Shell video interview .
“However, these projects are going right now, and we are happy
at the pace at which they are going,” she said without saying
when the flaring will end.  Attacks by armed groups in the Niger Delta, home to
Nigeria’s energy industry, cut more than 28 percent of the
country’s oil production between 2006 and 2009 and deterred
investment. Output started to recover after a government amnesty
program last year prompted thousands of fighters to disarm.  SPDC accounts for 75 percent of domestic gas supply in
Nigeria. Last year, 48 companies expressed interest in ventures
that will help to stop the practice of burning off gas into the
air.  Once the program is completed, it “will cover more than 75
percent of SPDC’s production potential,” Ajeh said.  The Hague-based Shell, Europe’s largest oil company, holds
30 percent of SPDC; Nigeria National Petroleum Corp. holds a 55
stake; Total SA has 10 percent; and Eni SpA 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  