-- Shunning Fruit-Bomb Glitz, Old Napa Wineries Craft Classic Reds
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2010-09-27T04:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/shunning-fruit-bomb-glitz-old-napa-wineries-craft-classic-reds.html
The reputation and glamour of Napa
Valley is too often about razzle-dazzle rather than good wine,
with well-financed estates producing fleshy, high-alcohol fruit
bombs to win medals. Yet there are still wineries quietly making
austere, traditional wines that deserve wider recognition.  Two cases in point are veterans in the valley, Concannon
and Clos du Val, which turn out some of the most impressive,
well-balanced red wines in California. Their quality is based on
long knowledge of the soil and terroir and sense enough to know
that fads in wine come and go, while hard work and experience
endure.  Concannon  is one of California¹s oldest, planted by Irish
immigrant James Concannon in Livermore Valley in 1883. In 1961,
third-generation Jim Concannon made the state’s first varietally
labeled petite sirah (released in 1964). The family also
developed some of the most widely adopted cabernet sauvignon
clones, numbers 7, 8 and 9, now standard in many of Napa¹s
finest cabs.  Fourth-generation vintner John Concannon, whose birth in
1961 was commemorated with the planting of that first petite
sirah, now runs the company after 22 years as a sales manager
for medical-device manufacturers. I recently had lunch with him
at Capri, an Italian restaurant in McLean, Virginia, where he
poured some of his Conservancy line of wines. The name comes
from the conservancy of California winegrowers who placed their
land in a legal trust to protect against development forever.  Brawny Red  I thoroughly enjoyed his 2007 Cabernet Sauvignon, a brawny
but balanced big red that, at just 13.5 percent alcohol, had
hints of oak and plenty of dark fruit without the cloying
sweetness and blast of more potent examples. At $15 a bottle,
it’s a stellar buy.  Concannon’s 2007 Petite Sirah ($15) and Captain Joe’s
Petite Sirah ($30) reminded me of the creamy richness this
varietal delivers when made with care. The former is silky, with
a good range of plum and cherry flavors within a light oaky
framework; it was delicious with gnocchi pasta with tomato and
mozzarella.  The latter, named after second-generation Joe, who served
in the  First Cavalry , is culled from Concannon’s best lots, then
given a small amount of syrah (a different grape from petite
sirah) for structure. At 14.5 percent alcohol, it’s a muscular
wine that went well with our entree of veal scaloppine with a
brandy cream sauce, and would be ideal for Thanksgiving dinner.  Memory Lane  Clos du Val, founded in 1972 by  John Goelet  and Bordeaux
winemaker  Bernard Portet  (now retired), was the first Napa
vineyard I ever visited, back in 1977. I recall Portet’s
passionate prediction that there was great potential in the
valley’s vineyards. A year before, Clos du Val was one of the
cabernets selected for the now legendary 1976 blind tasting in
Paris against First Growth Bordeaux. It came eighth out of 10
wines. In a rematch 10 years later, Clos du Val took first place.  Portet and successive Clos du Val winemakers (Kristy Melton,
formerly of Saintsbury winery, took over in August) have always
hewed to a classic Bordeaux style, determined primarily by the
terroir and not by the winery.  I’ve always found  Clos du Val ’s wines among the most
elegantly structured in the valley, never oaky, never hot, never
sweet, never cloying, with sensible alcohol levels. Back when
many Napa vintners scoffed at adding merlot to their cabs,
Portet knew from the start how it softened the tannins, a
traditional tactic in Bordeaux.  Stags Leap  I opened a bottle of the new release of the flagship wine,
Stags Leap District 2005, the other night with a sirloin steak
and was reminded all over again what a glorious match great
American beef and fine cabernet sauvignon is. Rounded out with
14 percent merlot, velvety, restrained at first, then blossoming
slowly with the fat of the beef on the palate, the wine is a
paragon of how French tradition and California terroir can so
honorably merge.  The function of all good wine is to please the drinker. In
the case of Concannon and Clos du Val, they make me very happy.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 John Mariani  at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 