-- Siemens Predicts Higher Fourth-Quarter Profit as Orders Rise
-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 2010-09-27T15:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/siemens-predicts-its-fourth-quarter-profit-will-increase-as-orders-climb.html
Siemens AG , Europe’s largest
engineering company, predicted an increase in fiscal fourth-
quarter profit to “very satisfactory” levels as orders for
industrial equipment rebound.  Orders  at Siemens’ three main units will exceed 20.1
billion euros ($27 billion), and revenue will be above 18.9
billion euros, the Munich-based company said in a statement
today. New orders at most divisions of the industry unit,
Siemens’s largest by sales, are poised to be “substantially
higher” than a year earlier, Siemens said.  Siemens has increased its outlook twice this year as demand
advances for  products  from high-speed trains to medical
equipment and power turbines. Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser 
said the company is in a good position to put its cash to work
after conserving funds in recent years and refraining from
acquisitions.  “We’re seeing a further upturn in business activity,”
Kaeser said on a call with journalists today.  Recovering markets will also help keep restructuring costs
in the quarter to 150 million euros, below budget, Siemens said.
Last week, the company detailed an impairment charge of about
1.4 billion euros at its diagnostics health-care division to
reflect lower growth rates at the unit. The company aims to book
the charge in the fourth quarter.  So-called sector earnings, or operating income at the
energy, health-care and industry divisions, totaled 1.9 billion
euros in last year’s fourth quarter that ended Sept. 30.  Exceeding Last Year  Siemens predicted in July that sector profit will “clearly
exceed” last year’s 7.47 billion euros in fiscal 2010. Kaeser
said it’s too early to say if the company will increase its
 dividend , which has remained level for three years in a row.  New orders in the fourth quarter at the energy unit, the
second-largest, will probably be “considerably” above the
comparable prior-year level of about 6.5 billion euros. Revenue
will hold steady, while profit is expected to be slightly below
the 878 million euros reported a year earlier, Siemens said.  Profit at the health-care unit will probably be “slightly
less” than the 483 million euros reported a year ago, Siemens
said. That outlook excludes the impairment charge for the
diagnostics division. Kaeser said on a call that diagnostics
will develop “favorably” in coming years, though growth won’t
exceed current levels for some quarters.  Equity investments, which include the SIS computer-services
division and the stake in the network joint venture with Nokia
Oyj, will make a negative contribution in the fourth quarter,
Kaeser said. The finance chief confirmed that private equity
companies had approached Siemens and Nokia about taking a stake
in the joint venture, and that Siemens was open to the proposal.  Siemens has gained 23 percent so far this year before
today, more than General Electric Co. and ABB Ltd., which
compete with the German company in power generation and
distribution. The stock fell as much as 1.58 euros, or 2
percent, to 77.70 euros in Frankfurt, and closed at 77.84 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Benedikt Kammel  at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  