-- Sinochem Said to Be Likeliest Rival to BHP Potash Bid
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 2010-09-27T03:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/sinochem-said-to-emerge-as-likeliest-rival-to-bhp-s-potash-bid.html
Sinochem Group, China’s largest
fertilizer trader, has emerged as the likeliest bidder to rival
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion offer for  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. , three people familiar with the matter said.  Chinese authorities chose Sinochem as the country’s
potential bidder and are allowing the Beijing-based company to
begin piecing together an offer that would likely involve taking
a majority stake in Potash Corp., the people said. Sinochem
would prefer to involve Canadian pension funds or other Canadian
investors to create more support for an offer, said the people,
who asked to remain anonymous because the talks are private.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest producer of its namesake
crop nutrient, last month rejected Melbourne-based BHP’s $130-a-
share bid as too low and said it’s seeking other offers. A bid
by state-controlled Sinochem would indicate China’s desire to
stop BHP, the world’s largest mining company, from controlling
more commodity supplies to the country.  “The main issue is how to ensure this could be a good
investment with reasonable returns as the potash cycle has
bottomed out,” said  He Wei , an analyst at BOCOM International
Holding Co. by phone from Beijing. “Potash is a strategic asset
to China.”  The board, management and advisers of Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based Potash Corp. determined Sinochem will
probably be the only other bidder, said one of the people.
Potash Corp.’s advisers have been in regular contact with
Sinochem’s advisers, which include Citigroup Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG, the people said.  Government Objections  Bill Johnson, a spokesman for Potash Corp. in Saskatoon,
declined to comment. Li Qiang, spokesman for Sinochem, wasn’t
immediately available. Calls to the Ministry of Commerce and the
National Development and Reform Commission, the Chinese
ministries involved in approving the deal, weren’t answered.  By including Canadian investors, Sinochem may have a better
chance of approval by Canadian regulators than previous attempts
by Chinese state-owned groups to buy foreign companies. Cnooc
Ltd., China’s biggest offshore energy producer, abandoned its
$18.5 billion bid for Unocal Corp. in 2005 after opposition from
U.S. lawmakers.  A Sinochem bid would “be a test of how open Canada really
is for investments,” said  Saxon Nicholls , a fund manager at
Herschel Asset Management Ltd. in Melbourne who helps oversee
$785 million.  No Details  While both companies’ advisers have been in talks, the two
sides haven’t discussed at length either valuations or the exact
structure for a potential deal, said one of the people. Nor have
both sides discussed specific parties that would take a minority
stake in Potash Corp. as part of a deal, the person said.  While Potash Corp. hasn’t given Sinochem a timeline in
which to get a deal done, the Chinese company still has a few
weeks to line up financing and partners, the people said.  Potash Corp.  shares  closed at $146 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading on Sept. 24, indicating investors
expect a bid higher than BHP’s.  The Australian company’s offer may not proceed because it’s
unlikely to overpay and there’s little chance that a competitor
may emerge, Citigroup analysts led by London-based  Heath Jansen 
said in a Sept. 20 report.  A Chinese offer would have to overcome the objections of
Saskatchewan Energy and Resources Minister  Bill Boyd  who said
Sept. 2 that offers by state-owned enterprises wouldn’t be in
the interest of the Canadian province.  Rivals Stay Away  Alberta Investment Management Corp., the $66 billion
Canadian pension fund known as AIMCo, said Sept. 3 it isn’t
interested in an offer for Potash Corp. after Chief Executive
Officer  Leo de Bever  said unidentified Chinese investors had
approached it about joining a bid.  Sinochem is listed as a key state-owned company under
China’s State-Owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission of the State Council. It is China’s biggest
chemicals trader, fourth-largest oil company, and also has
interests in real estate and finance, according to its  website .  Potash has watched in recent weeks as one after another of
the world’s biggest mining companies have distanced themselves
from a bid.  Asked about buying Potash Corp. in an Aug. 26 interview in
Brisbane,  Tom Albanese , the CEO of Rio Tinto Group, the world’s
third-largest mining company, said, “our first priority is
organic growth.” Analysts at UBS AG who met with him about the
same time said he is focused on smaller-sized acquisitions.  Brazil’s Vale SA, the world’s largest iron ore producer,
said last month it wasn’t pursuing a bid for a fertilizer
company and that it would invest $12 billion by 2014 to boost
its own output of the nutrient.  And at Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s largest diversified
mining company, Senior Vice President  Ronald Vance  said at a
conference this month that Potash is “not something we’ve spent
a lot of time thinking about, frankly.”  Teck last year sold a 17 percent stake to China Investment
Corp., a sovereign wealth fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net  