-- Sony, Warner, Disney Planning $30 Home Film-Viewing Option
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r   a n d   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-09-27T20:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/sony-warner-disney-said-to-plan-30-home-film-viewing-option.html
Sony Pictures, Warner Bros. and
 Walt Disney Co.  are in talks with the largest cable TV systems
to offer films for as much as $30 per showing soon after they
run in theaters.  The studios are talking with In Demand, a partnership of
Cox Communications Inc.,  Comcast Corp.  and  Time Warner Cable
Inc. ,  Bob Benya , chief executive officer of In Demand, said in
an interview. Disney is also discussing streaming films on Web-
linked devices such as  Microsoft Corp. ’s Xbox console and  Sony
Corp. ’s PlayStation 3, people with knowledge of the talks said.  Hollywood studios have been looking for ways to generate
additional sales from movies as DVD purchases decline. A so-
called “premium” service would let consumers see movies on TV
without waiting as long as the typical three to four months for
DVDs or cable companies’ $4 or so on-demand showings.  “There are a number of other products that we will be able
to create through Internet-connected television, particularly
when you consider our brand focus,”  Robert Iger,  CEO of
Burbank, California-based Disney said at a Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. conference on Sept. 21.  Sony Corp.  tested the market with users of its Bravia TV by
offering the  Will Smith  movie “Hancock” in 2008 and the
animated film “Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs” in 2009 for
$24.95. The Tokyo-based owner of Sony Pictures hasn’t announced
plans for another movie through its TV sets.  Time Warner Inc. Chief Financial Officer  John Martin  told
the Goldman Sachs conference in New York last week that the
company’s Warner Bros. studio expects to begin tests on the
service later this year. He said he expected the offering to be
priced at $20 to $30 per viewing.  Disney Test  The studios’ plans may meet resistance from theater chains,
which have raised concerns about cannibalizing ticket sales by
shortening the exclusive 120-day theatrical “window”
exhibitors have for a typical release.  “Any promotion, advertising, marketing or testing of
premium VOD needs to be done within the existing in-home window
time frame,” the National Association of Theatre Owners, a
Washington-based industry group, said in a June statement on its
 website .  Disney is likely to test consumer interest in the first
quarter using a single film, said one of the people, who
requested anonymity because the decisions are pending. The
company hasn’t decided on pricing or how long to wait after
theatrical release, the person said.  Jonathan Friedland , a
Disney spokesman, declined to comment on the plan.  PlayStation, Xbox  Patrick Seybold , a spokesman for Sony’s PlayStation
network, declined to comment, as did  Jim Kennedy , a spokesman
for Sony’s film division. An outside public relations
representative for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft didn’t
respond.  Disney, the world’s largest media company,  fell  29 cents to
$33.29 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
New York-based Time Warner fell 45 cents to $30.92 and Sony’s
U.S. traded shares slumped 14 cents to $30.86.  Time Warner Cable, also based in New York, rose 6 cents to
$53.17, and Philadelphia-based Comcast, the largest U.S. cable
system, declined 26 cents to $18.31 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover@bloomberg.net ;
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington, D.C. at 
 krtidell8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 