-- Southwest CEO Risks Keep-it-Simple Strategy to Reignite Growth
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-09-28T12:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/southwest-airlines-agrees-to-buy-airtran-for-1-4-billion-in-cash-shares.html
Southwest Airlines Co.  Chief
Executive Officer  Gary Kelly , taking on his biggest acquisition
ever, is dismantling the carrier’s keep-it-simple strategy in a
bid to reignite growth.  The largest U.S. low-fare carrier’s decision to buy  AirTran
Holdings Inc.  for $1.4 billion will mark its first foray into a
second jet type and its first boost in seating capacity since
the end of 2008.  Southwest will also face off with bigger  Delta Air Lines
Inc.  at its primary hub of Atlanta, the world’s busiest airport
and the only major U.S. city Southwest doesn’t serve. The
Dallas-based carrier will start flying at Washington’s Reagan
National, add its first international flights and mesh 8,000
 employees  into its workforce.  “They ran out of places where they could keep it simple,”
said  David Swierenga , president of consultant AeroEcon in Round
Rock, Texas. “They’ve become such a widespread, far-flung 
airline and served just about every city that met that simple
requirement. They figured it was time to go beyond that.”  With the cash-and-stock purchase, Kelly gives up some of
the last vestiges of Southwest’s historic low-cost strategy,
including flying just one fleet type, Boeing Co. 737s, to hold
down maintenance and training costs, making short hops between
cities at high frequencies and owning most of its jets.  More Seats  The deal will add 138  planes , ending Southwest’s self-
imposed capacity ceiling that began at the end of 2008 and
became the longest dormant period in 20 years. The combined
company is to have 685 aircraft, including 86 Boeing 717s from
AirTran. Southwest’s 737s can carry at least 122 passengers,
while AirTran’s 717s have 117 seats.  “Growth is in Southwest’s DNA, and the growth pause of the
last several years has not been a naturally comfortable place
for the company,” said  Douglas Runte , managing director at
Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York. “The addition of AirTran will
allow them to satisfy their briefly dormant, but always present,
inclination for growth.”  AirTran flies to Cancun, Mexico, and the Caribbean, giving
Southwest the “perfect opportunity” to add flights outside the
U.S. for the first time, Kelly said yesterday at a news
conference at Southwest’s headquarters.  Southwest’s offer values Orlando, Florida-based AirTran at
$7.69 a share, including its convertible notes. That’s 69
percent more than the carrier’s closing price on Sept. 24.  Southwest rose $1.07, or 8.7 percent, to $13.35 in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading  yesterday, while AirTran jumped
$2.79, or 61 percent, to $7.34.  Merger Terms  Under the  merger  agreement, each of AirTran’s common shares
will be exchanged for $3.75 in cash and 0.321 share of Southwest
common stock. Including AirTran  debt  and capitalized aircraft
operating leases, the transaction has a value of about $3.4
billion, the airlines said.  AirTran’s debt as of June 30 included about $280 million in
convertible notes, according to a July  regulatory filing .
Southwest will take on about $2 billion of AirTran’s aircraft
operating leases, according to the Standard & Poor’s ratings
company.  Southwest will partially fund the purchase with $670
million from  cash on hand . The carrier currently has $3.3
billion in cash and short-term investments, and an available
$600 million revolving credit line, it said yesterday.  The acquisition will add $2 billion a year in revenue and
$400 million in cost and revenue synergies, the companies said.  ‘Growth Opportunity’  “We have evolved our company to be able to take on a
growth opportunity like this,” Kelly said. “Our own growth
prospects near-term are quite modest.”  The merger must be approved by AirTran shareholders and the
Justice Department. The U.S. clearance is “not a slam dunk,”
said  Vaughn Cordle , managing partner of AirlineForecasts LLC in
Clifton, Virginia.  The two carriers overlap on 32 markets, more than twice as
many as in the pending merger between  UAL Corp. ’s United
Airlines and Continental Airlines Inc., Cordle said in an
interview.  The Justice Department will analyze direct service on a
route-by-route basis to determine whether the merger leaves too
few competitors in any individual market, said Steve Martin, a
senior vice president at InterVistas Consulting in Washington.
Buffalo, New York-Orlando; Baltimore-Orlando and Baltimore-Las
Vegas are among routes that will come under scrutiny, he said.  Acquisition History  Southwest, which started flying in 1971, has made two
previous acquisitions: Morris Air in 1993 for $134 million in
stock and Muse Air in 1985 for $60.5 million in stock and cash.
AirTran, founded in 1993, formerly was called ValuJet.  Southwest failed in a 2009 bid to acquire Frontier Airlines
out of bankruptcy. Frontier, based in Denver, was then acquired
by Republic Airways Holdings Inc.  While Southwest hasn’t suffered annual  losses  that ravaged
competitors such as American Airlines parent  AMR Corp.  and UAL,
it posted net losses in four of the past eight quarters. The
carrier’s third-quarter loss in 2008 was its first in 17 years.  In the 12 months ended Sept. 24, the shares jumped 29
percent, the sixth-best performance among the 12 carriers in the
 Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  UAL more than doubled in the
period, and US Airways Group Inc. and Alaska Air Group Inc. each
surged 83 percent.  Pilots, Attendants  Southwest told employees yesterday it would add as many as
200 pilots and 300 flight attendants next year, in addition to
AirTran employees. Combined, the companies would have about
42,700 employees, based on second-quarter data.  Southwest’s  unions  will negotiate with AirTran’s unions on
how to mesh their seniority lists. There will have to be
representation elections and contract negotiations with the
carrier because the airlines’ major work groups belong to
different unions.  Based on miles flown by paying passengers,  Southwest  now
ranks as the fifth-largest U.S. carrier, while AirTran is
eighth. The merged carrier will be No. 4 after United and
Continental combine.  Southwest plans to use AirTran’s base in Atlanta and its
flight slots at Reagan National to build on its strategy of
attracting more business travelers. A blended Southwest and
AirTran will account for 69 percent of flights at Baltimore-
Washington International.  LaGuardia, Newark  The airline also will gain additional flight slots at New
York’s LaGuardia Airport with AirTran. Southwest agreed last
month to lease flight space from Continental and United
Airlines, which plan to complete their merger this week, at
Newark’s Liberty International airport.  “Southwest has, until recently, avoided serving congested
Northeast airports,” said  Alan Bender , professor of aeronautics
at  Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University  in Daytona Beach,
Florida. “This is a major entry into those markets. Southwest
is saying it is no longer the airline of ma and pa -- we are
going to become the airline of the business person.”  While Southwest flies into several airports that serve as
hubs for rival airlines’ connecting flights, it hasn’t yet come
up against the dominant position that Delta holds in Atlanta
with 75 percent of passengers.  In Los Angeles, American Airlines has 16 percent of
passengers, compared with 12 percent for Southwest. In Denver,
United has 32 percent of passengers, compared with 15 percent
for Southwest, and in San Francisco, United has 34 percent,
while Southwest has 8 percent, according to the U.S.  Bureau of
Transportation Statistics .  ‘Greater Appeal’  “We want to have greater appeal to more customers
nationwide,” Kelly said. “The gaping hole in our route system
right now is Atlanta. There is no easy way for us to get into
Atlanta. We can start day one profitably and go from there.”  Southwest plans to extend its policy of not charging for
the first two  checked bags  to AirTran, as well as its offer of a
single class of service on aircraft. The combined carrier, which
will remain based in Dallas, won’t assign seats.  The deal allows Southwest to eliminate AirTran, the second-
biggest discounter, as a competitor and increase pressure on
rivals JetBlue Airways Corp., Frontier and Virgin America Inc.  “It’s certainly going to change the competitive dynamics
of the low-cost sector,” said  Paul Mifsud , a Washington
consultant and former airline executive. “They are going to
become an extremely big competitive force in the domestic
industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 John Hughes  in Washington 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 