-- Southwest's AirTran Buy Is a Good Fit, Dahlman's Becker Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-09-27T17:39:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/southwest-s-airtran-buy-is-a-good-fit-dahlman-s-becker-says-tom-keene.html
The decision by  Southwest Airlines
Co. , the largest U.S. low-fare carrier, to buy  AirTran Holdings
Inc.  “makes a lot of sense for them,” said  Helane Becker,  an
analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co.  “It gives them an awful lot of opportunity for growth,”
Becker said in an interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance”
with  Tom Keene . “That’s something they haven’t been able to do
up until now. They just said on their conference call they were
not contemplating adding any planes at all, and now they don’t
have to.”  The $1.4 billion cash and stock offer values Orlando,
Florida-based AirTran at $7.69 a share, 69 percent more than its
closing price on Sept. 24, Southwest said today in a statement.
The transaction price includes AirTran’s convertible notes. This
is the first acquisition in at least the past five years for
Southwest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The deal will give Southwest a foothold in Atlanta, the
world’s busiest airport, from which it has been “noticeably
absent,” Becker said. “All of their business travelers have
indicated: we need to fly to Atlanta, we need to go to
Minneapolis, we need to go to Chicago, we need to go to
Washington.”  The Air-Tran purchase has caused airline shares to rally as
investors speculate on other mergers, some of which may make
work for the companies and investors, said Becker, who is based
in New York.  Southwest rose $1.71, or 14 percent, to $13.99 at 1:22
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today,
the shares had advanced 7.4 percent this year. AirTran jumped
$2.83, or 62 percent, to $7.38. Through Sept. 24, its shares had
dropped 13 percent this year.  ‘Good Business Sense’  “You have to think in terms of what combinations make good
business sense,” Becker said. “There are specific reasons for
each of those, and mostly it has to do with what does one
airline bring to the party that the other doesn’t have.”  “Southwest-Air Tran makes great business sense,” Becker
said. Other combinations that would be bolstered by combining
different strengths include  Delta Air Lines  Inc. and  Alaska Air 
Group Inc. and  AMR Corp .’s American and  JetBlue Airways Corp .,
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  