-- S&P's Head of Sovereign Ratings Says Government Downgrades Will Continue
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-27T16:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/sovereign-rating-cuts-will-persist-in-era-of-budget-woes-s-p-s-beers-says.html
The era of sovereign-rating
downgrades is likely to continue because of budget deficits and
demographic pressures on public finances, Standard & Poor’s
analyst  David Beers  said.  “We’re now in an era which I and my team think is going to
persist for quite some time to come -- because of the coming
demographic public-finance pressures which are looming before us
as well -- where we do expect there will be continued falls in
sovereign ratings,” Beer, S&P’s Global Head of Sovereign
Ratings, said at an event in London today.  Portugal, Spain and Ireland are trying to convince
investors they can avoid the fate of Greece, which sought a
European Union-led bailout this year after its budget deficit
spiraled out of control and its debt was downgraded to junk by
S&P. The premiums investors charge to hold the 10-year debt of
those countries compared with the German equivalent rose to
euro-era records earlier this year.  “We’re not in normal times now,” Beers said. “It’s
perfectly respectable for governments to decide to make fiscal
decisions even if it means that there’s cost in terms of its
credit rating,” though “when you get to Greece and other
countries where solvency is truly in question, then your fiscal
choices are” more limited.  Beer’s said that the growth potential in the euro region
may keep deteriorating, which has exposed the budget weaknesses
in some member economies.  “There’s no doubt, certainly in the euro zone, and I think
more broadly in the OECD countries, or many of them, that there
has been and will continue to be a shift downwards in terms of
trend growth,” he said. “Growth will be more sluggish and that
of course has highlighted very significant fiscal imbalances,
particularly with respect to the euro-zone peripheral
countries.”  Beers spoke at S&P’s Future of Finance Forum, an event
marking the ratings company’s 150th anniversary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  