-- `Stagflation' Stalks Pakistan Economy as Bank Meets on Rates
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2010-09-27T19:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/stagflation-threatens-to-hobble-pakistan-economy-as-bank-meets-to-set-rate.html
Pakistan’s central bank will
consider whether to increase borrowing costs for a second time
this year as it weighs surging inflation and the risk of slower
economic growth after the nation’s most devastating floods.  Thirteen of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
the  State Bank of Pakistan  to raise its discount rate. Ten
predict a half-point increase to 13.5 percent, two forecast a
percentage point move, and one estimates a quarter-point
increase. Eight project the benchmark to be kept unchanged in
the decision scheduled for 4:45 p.m. in Karachi tomorrow.  Pakistan Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  estimates the
floods, which have washed away crops, roads and bridges, may
stoke inflation to as high as 20 percent and curb economic
expansion to 2.5 percent in the year through June.  Shahid Kardar , who was named central bank governor this month, said his
primary task is to cool Asia’s highest inflation rate.  “Inflationary pressures leave very little room to avoid a
rate rise,” said  Muhammed Imran , head of research at Arif Habib
Securities Ltd. in Karachi. It will “be a difficult decision
for a central bank that faces a stagflation situation,” he
said, referring to a period of inflation and slow growth.  The floods first struck the western province of Baluchistan
on July 22 before inundating Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab and
Sindh, the country’s most populous provinces.  Stocks Decline  The  Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index  has declined about 3
percent to 9,937.44 since the disaster. The central bank on
Sept. 22 sold its benchmark six-month treasury bills at a yield
of 12.85 percent, compared with 12.79 percent in the previous
auction on Sept. 8. The higher yield is a signal that the State
Bank may raise its benchmark rate, Arif Habib’s Imran said.  The government estimates the floods damaged $1 billion of
crops, causing shortages. Pakistan will harvest 4.4 million
metric tons of rice in the 12 months starting Nov. 1, down 35
percent from the previous year, according to a report by a unit
of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Gilani said Sept. 1 the calamity has destroyed 4,000
kilometers of roads and 1,000 bridges, pushing up the cost of
delivering goods and services. He estimated the inflation rate
will climb to between 15 percent and 20 percent.  Consumer prices in Pakistan rose 13.23 percent in August,
the highest among the 17 countries in the Asia Pacific tracked
by Bloomberg data.  “Inflation in Pakistan is more because of supply-side
constraints and raising rates may not be very relevant to curb
prices,” said  Sayem Ali , an economist at Standard Chartered
Pakistan Ltd. in Karachi. “The need to support growth may
convince the central bank to delay further policy tightening.”  The central bank in July raised its benchmark for the first
time since November 2008, citing “risks to the inflation
outlook” after the government increased power tariffs. Since
then the country has been hit by the nation’s worst floods in
its 63-year history.  Gilani estimates the disaster may shave 2 percentage points
off economic growth this year. Toyota Motor Corp. and Unilever
affiliates in Pakistan said last month the floods may sap growth
and force production cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net .
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  