-- Stanford's Investments Beat Harvard, Yale With 14% Increase
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2010-09-27T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/stanford-university-s-investments-beat-harvard-s-yale-s-with-14-return.html
Stanford University, the third-
richest U.S. college, said its investments rose 14.4 percent in
the year ended June 30, beating returns at Harvard and Yale
universities on gains in credit investments and stocks.  The increase, along with gifts from donors and
distributions to the university, led a 9.6 percent climb in the
endowment to $13.8 billion in the year ended Aug. 31, the school
near Palo Alto, California, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Stanford, whose wealth trails Harvard and Yale, generated
an average annual return of 6.9 percent in the decade through
June. That compares with Harvard’s 7 percent gain, Yale’s 8.9
percent return and the 3.4 percent median increase of public and
corporate pensions, endowments and foundations tracked by
Wilshire Associates Inc., a consulting firm in Santa Monica,
California.  “Our investment managers took advantage of strong equity
and credit markets through the first three quarters of the
fiscal year, allowing us to make up some of the ground lost in
fiscal 2009,”  John Powers , chief executive officer of Stanford
Management Co., said in the statement.  Powers had planned to sell as much as $1 billion in private
equity, distressed debt and energy funds to take advantage of
rising prices before canceling the transaction in December.
Stanford had lost a record 26 percent the previous year,
following the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  Yale, Harvard  As its endowment tumbled, the university cut the fund’s
payout to the school by 10 percent last year and by an
additional 15 percent this year, according to the statement.
Stanford plans to spend $758 million, or 5.5 percent of its
endowment, this fiscal year, the university said.  Yale, whose endowment strategy is a model for U.S. schools,
said Sept. 24 that investments at its $16.7 billion fund
increased 8.9 percent as of June 30, trailing Harvard in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, and the three other Ivy League funds
that reported returns for the past year. Results at Yale in New
Haven, Connecticut, were hampered by a second straight year of
losses on real estate, timber and oil and gas holdings.  Harvard’s $27.4 billion endowment rose 11 percent. Columbia
University in New York said its $6.5 billion endowment jumped 17
percent in the past year, while the University of Pennsylvania
in Philadelphia reported its $5.7 billion fund gained 13
percent. The $3 billion fund at Dartmouth College in Hanover,
New Hampshire, advanced 10 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index of U.S. stocks returned 14 percent, including dividends.  MIT  The Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge said
today that investments climbed 10 percent in the past year,
leading to a 5.1 percent gain in the endowment to $8.3 billion
in the year ended June 30.  Stanford’s investments include most of its endowment as
well as money from Stanford Hospital & Clinics and the Lucile
Packard Children’s Hospital. Those investments were valued at
$15.9 billion as of June 30, the school said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 