-- Sub-Sahara Africa Stocks: Mumias Sugar, Safaricom, TPS Eastern Africa Move
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2010-09-27T16:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/sub-sahara-africa-stocks-mumias-sugar-safaricom-tps-eastern-africa-move.html
The  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-
Share Index  fell for a sixth day, the longest streak of losses
since March 22, dropping 1.2 percent to 22,407.50 by the 1 p.m.
close in Lagos.  Mauritius’s  SEMDEX Index  retreated for a third day,
dropping 0.2 percent to 1,762.5 by the 1:30 p.m. close in Port
Louis. Kenya’s  All-Share Index  slumped 0.2 percent to 82.76 by
the 3 p.m. close in Nairobi, a third day of declines. The  Ghana
Stock Exchange All-Share Index  slipped 0.4 percent to 6,639.66
by the 1 p.m. close in Accra, the lowest since Aug. 26.
Namibia’s  FTSE/Namibia Overall Index  rose for the first day in a
week, climbing 1 percent to 790.92 by the 4 p.m. close in
Windhoek.  The following shares rose or fell in sub-Saharan Africa,
excluding South Africa. Stock symbols are in parentheses.  Mumias Sugar Co.  (MSUG KN), Kenya’s largest producer of the
sweetener, jumped the most since Sept. 2, gaining 20 cents, or
1.7 percent, 11.9 shillings. The company obtained a 1.6 billion-
shilling ($20 million) loan that will go toward building an
ethanol power plant, the company said in a statement handed to
reporters today. The funds will be provided by the Kenyan unit
of Ecobank Transnational Inc. and Commercial Bank of Africa.  Safaricom Ltd.  (SAFCOM KN), Kenya’s biggest mobile-network
operator, fell 15 cents, or 3.4 percent, to 4.3 shillings, the
lowest since November 2009. Bharti Airtel Ltd.’s Zain Kenya unit
asked the nation’s presidency to review competition, equality
and tariff regulations, Business Daily reported, citing a letter
by Managing Director Rene Meza to Francis Muthaura, the
permanent secretary in the President’s office.  The regulations restrict the Communications Commission of
Kenya from intervening where possible abuse by a dominant player
has been established, the Nairobi-based newspaper reported. The
rules don’t outline financial penalties for abuse of dominance,
the newspaper reported Meza as saying.  Ikeja Hotel Plc  (IKEJAHOT NL), which operates Sheraton
Hotels in Nigeria, fell to the lowest in almost six weeks as
investors were “disappointed” with a plan to pay its full-year
2009 dividend on Dec. 6, Raheem Mohammed, chief executive
officer of Lagos-based brokerage Kundila Finance said in a phone
interview today.  TPS Eastern Africa Ltd.  (TPSEA KN), the Kenyan holding
company for the Serena chain of hotels in the region, retreated
the most in three days, dropping 1 shilling or 1.6 percent, to
62.5 shillings. TPS fell on speculation some investors sold
stock after new shares obtained through a rights offer began
trading today, James Mose, a research analyst at Nairobi-based
CFC Stanbic Financial Services Ltd., said in a phone interview
today.  New Mauritius Hotels Ltd.  (NMH MP), the Indian Ocean island
nation’s largest hotel operator by market value, fell the most
since May after its dividend announcement today fueled
speculation full-year profit will decline, said Bhavik Desai, a
research analyst at AXYS Stockbroking Ltd. The stock shed 2
rupees, or 2 percent, to 99 rupees in trading in Port Louis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 