-- Sudan Ruling Party Says It May Reject Results of South's Independence Vote
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2010-09-27T14:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/sudan-ruling-party-says-it-may-reject-results-of-south-s-independence-vote.html
Sudan’s ruling party said it
may reject the results of Southern Sudan’s vote on
independence in January unless the south allows free
campaigning and pulls troops out of disputed areas.  The authorities in Southern Sudan have stifled
campaigning and deployed their soldiers outside of areas
stipulated by a 2005  peace agreement  that ended two decades
of civil war between the north and south, Haj Majid Sowar,
the National Congress Party’s mobilization secretary, told
reporters today in Khartoum, the capital.  “We may not recognize the results,” he said. Sudan may
take its complaints to the United Nations, the U.S., the
African Union and other parties involved in monitoring the
implementation of the peace agreement, he said.  The independence vote is a key component of the peace
accord. President  Umar al-Bashir ’s NCP and the former
rebels of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement haven’t
agreed on post-referendum arrangements such as the regions’
responsibility for foreign debt, sharing the nation’s oil
wealth and citizenship rights in both regions.  “The first thing that will be dropped from the
southerners if they choose secession is the citizenship,”
said Sowar, who is also Sudan’s minister for youth and
sports.  As many as 1.5 million Sudanese now live in northern
Sudan, according to New York-based Human Rights Watch.  Identifying Southerners  Sowar did not say how Southern Sudanese living in the
north would be identified, saying that criteria were laid
out in the referendum law the National Assembly passed in
December.  The NCP and SPLM are discussing these issues,
including whether southerners in the north would be treated
as foreigners, he said.  The referendum law identifies a southerner as someone
who is born to one or two parents from one of the original
groups living in the south before Sudan’s independence in
January 1956 or whose ancestors can be traced to one of the
ethnic groups of southern Sudan. Others who have resided
continuously, or whose parents or grandparents lived in the
south since 1956, are also considered southerners.  The state-run SMC news agency on Sept. 25 cited
Minister of Information Kemal Ebeid as saying that Southern
Sudanese will lose the right to trade and receive treatment
in hospitals in the north if secession is approved.  “Southern Sudanese lost confidence in dealing with
hospitals” as a result of Ebeid’s comments, Sudan’s health
minister, Abdalla Teya Guma, who is a member of the SPLM,
said today in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via the Cairo newsroom at
   mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 