-- Sugar May Remain Near Seven-Month High on Tight Supply, LMC's Fry Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-09-27T06:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/sugar-may-trade-close-to-seven-month-high-on-tight-supply-lmc-s-fry-says.html
Sugar will trade near a seven-month
high as supplies from Brazil and India, the world’s biggest
growers, stay tight, according to  James Fry , chairman of U.K.-
based commodity consultant LMC International Ltd.  Futures will trade between 20 cents to 25 cents a pound in
the next six months, Fry said in an interview in Mumbai
yesterday. Prices may then drop as much as 30 percent to around
17 cents by the middle of next year as farmers boost planting to
benefit from higher prices, he said.  Raw sugar in New York surged as much as 88 percent since
reaching a 13-month low on May 7 on concern weather will cut
output in Brazil, Russia, China and Pakistan. As consumers
replenish stocks and India restricts exports, prices may stay
firm until the Brazil harvest starts in April, Fry said. The
2009-2010 global supply deficit was 1.7 million tons, he said.  “Brazil’s ability to respond quickly to current prices is
limited and there’s dry weather on the other hand threatening
crops next season,” he said. “There’s an expectation that
India won’t up its exports in a big way and that’s why prices
are higher.”  Raw sugar for March delivery climbed as much as 3.6 percent
to 24.47 cents a pound on Sept. 24 on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, the highest level for a most-active contract since Feb. 24.
In London, refined sugar for December delivery jumped 2.4
percent to settle at $633.10 on NYSE Liffe on Sept. 24.  Global Surplus  The global sugar surplus will be about 2.1 million tons in
the year beginning Oct. 1, Fry said. That compares with an ABN
Amro Bank NV and VM Group forecast last week for a surplus of
1.2 million tons for 2010-2011 because of reduced crop estimates
for Western Europe and higher demand in Asia, smaller than the
5.64 million tons forecast in June. The Western Europe crop
estimate was lowered by 1.45 million tons from June and the
Asian demand forecast was raised by 1.28 million tons.  “Sugar prices have kind of lost touch with any
fundamentals and it’s all driven up by funds,” Fry said.
“Today’s price is doing its job of indicating that planters
will grow more cane in the next season.”  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will  rise ,
outnumbered short positions by 155,912 contracts on ICE Futures
U.S., the Washington-based commission said in its Commitments of
Traders Report last week. Net-long positions rose by 16,470
contracts, or 12 percent, from a week earlier.  ‘Classic Dilemma’  India has been a net buyer since 2008 after a drought
ravaged crops, pushing prices in New York to a 29-year high of
30.4 cents in February. India may produce 25.5 million tons of
the sweetener in the year beginning Oct. 1, from 18.8 million
tons estimated this year, according to the Indian Sugar Mills
Association.  “India holds the secret to the market,” Fry said. “India
faces a classic dilemma as to whether to export, and my past
experience says that there’s a tendency on the part of India to
export when prices are low and import when prices are the
highest.”  The nation may have as much as a 2.5 million-ton surplus
for export, Jayantilal Patel, president of the National
Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd., said on Sept. 1. India is set
to become a “regular” exporter as output is poised to exceed
demand, according to Cargill Inc. The country may ship 1 million
tons in the season starting Oct. 1,  Jonathan Drake , head of
sugar business at Cargill, said on Sept. 1.  India’s production may be around 26 million tons in the
crop season starting Oct. 1 and the South Asian nation may have
a surplus of 2 million tons to export, Fry said.  “There’s a tendency on the part of India to overstate how
good or bad their production is,” Fry said. “A lot will depend
on how much India produces and exports as far as global prices
are concerned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 