-- Sugar Rises to Seven-Month High on Concern Supply May Fall Short of Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-09-27T18:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/sugar-rises-to-seven-month-high-on-concern-supply-may-fall-short-of-demand.html
 Sugar climbed to a seven-month high
on concern that adverse weather will curb output in Brazil, the
world’s biggest exporter, and Australia, the third-largest.  Drought in Brazil is harming crops and drying the Amazon
River to its lowest level in 47 years. Wet weather in Australia
has disrupted crushing and curbed prospects for shipping, said
Queensland Sugar Ltd., which handles more than 90 percent of the
nation’s exports.  “Supply concerns have become an issue,” said  Peter de Klerk , a London-based analyst at C. Czarnikow Sugar Futures Ltd.
“With Brazil having shipped most of its incremental export
availability, the market will be looking for other origins to
fill the supply chain during the off-crop period.”  Raw sugar for March delivery gained 0.58 cent, or 2.4
percent, to settle at 24.98 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. Earlier, the price reached 25.11
cents, the highest level for a most-active contract since Feb.
22.  Refined-sugar futures for December delivery rose $11, or
1.7 percent, to close at $644.10 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in
London. The price reached $648.30, the highest level since March
1.  Cane yields in Uttar Pradesh, India’s biggest producer, may
be reduced by flooding. About 10 percent of the 2.1 million-
hectare (5.2 million acres) crop area is under water, said
Kamram Rizvi, an official with the provincial government.  “Concerns are being raised for other Southern Hemisphere
producers, while the forthcoming Thai, Indian and Central
American harvests are being delayed by wet weather,”
Czarnikow’s de Klerk said.  Supplies from India, the world’s second-largest producer,
and Brazil remain tight,  James Fry , the chairman of U.K.-based
commodity consultant LMC International, said yesterday in an
interview.  “There’s an expectation that India won’t up its exports in
a big way, and that’s why prices are higher,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 