-- Synagogue Plot Defense Team Gets Documents on Informant They Say Is Lying
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2010-09-27T19:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/synagogue-plot-trial-lawyers-get-documents-on-informant-from-prosecutors.html
Prosecutors turned over to defense
attorneys hundreds of pages of documents relating to the
confidential informant at the center of a trial of four men
accused of plotting to bomb New York synagogues.  Notes from an interview by prosecutors of informant Shahed
Hussain and records on his immigration from Pakistan were among
the documents disclosed over the weekend after defense attorneys
told the judge they suspected perjury by Hussain.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan declined
to rule today on a motion to dismiss the case by defense
lawyers, who said the “untimely production” of the documents
makes it impossible to challenge Hussain’s credibility.  “He’s just sat up there and smirked and made up one lie
after another,” Mark Gombiner, an attorney for defendant Onta
Williams, told McMahon. “All he’s been doing is lying from
start to finish.”  Attorneys for the defendants have tried to portray Hussain
as a habitual liar who lured their clients into planning a
terrorist attack with promises of money, cars and vacations
without authorization from his FBI handlers.  Assistant U.S. Attorney David Raskin said Hussain has a
“bad memory,” which McMahon called an “extraordinary
statement” before she let the informant return to the witness
stand today for more questioning by prosecutors.  Cross-Examinations  Defense attorneys last week finished their initial cross-
examinations of Hussain, who began testifying Aug. 27. The trial
of the four men began Aug. 23 before McMahon in federal court in
Manhattan.  The defendants, Williams, 34, James Cromitie, 44, David
Williams, 29, and Laguerre Payen, 28, all of Newburgh, New York,
are accused of planning to blow up a synagogue and a Jewish
community center in the Bronx section of New York City and fire
heat-seeking missiles at military planes at Stewart
International Airport.  Defense attorneys maintain that their clients were
impoverished victims of entrapment by Hussain, a paid government
informant who was posing as a member of the Pakistan-based
terrorist organization  Jaishe-e-Mohammad.   The charges against the men include conspiracy and
attempted use of weapons of mass destruction in the U.S. They
face as long as life in prison if convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Dolmetsch  in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 