-- U.K. Offshore Wind Projects Need Subsidies Until 2025, Researcher Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-09-27T13:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/u-k-offshore-wind-projects-need-subsidies-until-2025-researcher-says.html
Offshore wind power in the U.K.
will need subsidies at least until 2025 to spur the industry and
keep it competitive with other technologies, a senior researcher
at London’s Imperial College said.  The cost of offshore wind power has increased by more than
50 percent from 2006 through 2009, largely due to a rise in the
price of commodities and labor and a weakening of the pound
against the euro, Robert Gross said today, publishing a report
for the government-funded Energy Research Centre.  Offshore wind “will continue to need subsidy for the next
15 years,” Gross, director of Imperial’s  Centre for Energy
Policy and Technology , told reporters. Still, “there’s no
reason why we shouldn’t be able to scale up the offshore wind
market.”  The government should overhaul aid to the industry to
provide for greater long-term certainty, encouraging investment,
Gross said. Lawmakers need to encourage the production chain to
move to Britain, to fend against currency fluctuations and
create jobs in the U.K., he said.  Costs from now to the mid-2020s are likely to come down
“gradually” from 145 pounds ($230) per megawatt-hour to about
115 pounds per megawatt hour, the centre’s report said. That’s
more than the costs in 2023 of nuclear power and coal with
carbon capture, according to a  report prepared in June  for the
government by Mott MacDonald.  The U.K. trying to meet its goal of deriving 15 percent of
its energy for transportation, power and heating from renewable
sources by 2020, up from about 3 percent now. As part of that,
it will need as much as 20 gigawatts of offshore wind generating
capacity, up from 1 gigawatt now, today’s report said.  Investing in Ports  The worst-case scenario in 2025 is for the cost of offshore
wind to increase to about 185 pounds per megawatt-hour, and the
best-case would see a cost of about 95 pounds, according to
 today’s report . All costs are based on the levelized cost of
energy, which includes capital costs as well as running expenses
over the life of a facility.  Britain needs to make sure it has the port facilities to
handle wind turbines if it wants to encourage manufacturers such
as Siemens AG and  General Electric Co.  to move to the country,
Gross said. The government at present is working on a package of
budget cuts due to be announced Oct. 20, and 60 million pounds
earmarked to upgrade ports is among measures being reviewed.  “There’s not very much point in a big multinational
engineering company building a factory if we lack the dock
facilities which our European neighbors are busily investing
in,” Gross said. “If we can’t get those large objects into the
water in Britain, it’s very difficult for the supply chain to
come here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Marc Roca  in London at   mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 