-- U.K. to End Curbs on Regional Media Ownership in Local TV Plan, Hunt Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2010-09-27T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/u-k-to-end-curbs-on-regional-media-ownership-in-local-tv-plan-hunt-says.html
U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt 
will say today he’ll end remaining curbs on ownership of
regional media to encourage the setting-up of local television
stations that may be sponsored by large companies.  Hunt will use a speech to the Royal Television Society in
London to say he’s pressing ahead with plans for new local TV
services. He will urge public-service broadcasters to host or
oversee local stations and will also say that broadcasters that
“invest in content with a social or cultural benefit” will be
rewarded with a low-numbered channel on electronic program
guides.  That would mean ITV Plc, Channel 4 Television Corp. and
Channel Five, owned by  Richard Desmond ’s Northern and Shell
holding company, might lose their prominent channel slots if
they don’t show enough suitable programming. Hunt will also ask
media regulator Ofcom to redefine public-service broadcasting,
or PSB, to give greater emphasis to local content.  “Of course not all PSBs will want, or be able, to be local
broadcasters,” Hunt will say, according to extracts of his
speech released by his office. “But I’m determined that we
should recognize the public value in those that do. I intend to
bring forward new legislation to clarify which PSB channels
should get guaranteed positioning on page 1 of the Electronic
Programme Guide and its future online equivalents.”  Hunt also published a letter today from his adviser
 Nicholas Shott , the head of U.K. investment banking at Lazards,
that warns that advertising alone will not be enough to cover
the costs of the proposed local TV stations.  “If alternative sources of revenue such as subscription,
carriage fees, product placement and sponsored programming can
work for national TV, why can’t they do so for local
stations?,” he will say.  Shott suggested sponsorship for the entire local television
network might be an initial solution, citing Barclays Plc’s
sponsoring of London Mayor  Boris Johnson ’s bicycle-hire program
as a parallel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 