-- U.S. Urges Stem-Cell Funding Stay by Appeals Court
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2010-09-27T17:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/u-s-appeals-court-sets-no-deadline-to-rule-on-halt-in-stem-cell-funding.html
The U.S. Justice Department urged a
federal appeals court to maintain its stay on a lower-court
order cutting off funds for embryonic stem cell research while
it seeks to overturn the trial judge’s ruling.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia, after an hour-long hearing, didn’t say
when it would decide whether to make the emergency hold extend
through the appeal. The Obama administration attorneys argued
that even a temporary cutoff would cause irreparable harm to
researchers, taxpayers and scientific progress.  The appeals court ruled on Sept. 9 that the government can
keep funds flowing for the research at least during the initial
stages of the administration’s challenge to the order banning
taxpayer support for any activity using cells taken from human
embryos.  U.S. Judge  Royce Lamberth  last month cited the still-in-
force 1996 Dickey-Wicker Amendment in his ruling, saying
Congress prohibited funding any research in which a human embryo
was destroyed.  The decision will be made by  Judith Rogers , appointed by
former President  Bill Clinton , and  Thomas Griffith  and  Brett Kavanaugh , both appointed by former President George W. Bush.  Beth Brinkmann, an attorney for the Justice Department,
told the panel that cutting off funding would waste millions of
dollars in already earmarked grants and force scientists to
start research over should Lamberth’s ruling ultimately be
overturned,.  “We’re not here to” decide “upon the wisdom of the
government policy,” said Griffith. Rather, the court is
deciding whether the funding violates the statute.  Thomas Hungar , an attorney for stem-cell research
opponents, said government attorneys are only speculating on the
potential harm, and no injury is imminent or irreversible.  The case is Sherley v. Sebelius, 10-5287, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington
at   bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 