-- U.S. Defense Official Aims for `Sustainable' China Ties With Beijing Visit
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-09-27T17:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/u-s-defense-official-aims-for-sustainable-china-ties-with-beijing-visit.html
A U.S. Defense Department official
is on a two-day visit to Beijing, aiming to revive ties with
Chinese military leaders in a way that can avoid ruptures that
have marred relations in the past, the Pentagon said.  Michael Schiffer , the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
for East Asia, began two days of talks in the Chinese capital
today, said Marine Corps Colonel David Lapan, a Pentagon
spokesman. The discussions precede a regional defense minister’s
meeting next month in Hanoi, which Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  and his Chinese counterpart are scheduled to attend.  Relations between the two militaries have been on hold
since January, when the U.S. announced arms sales to Taiwan and
China retaliated by restricting military-to-military
cooperation.  The U.S. wants to restart the relationship and “put it on
a footing that’s sustainable so that we don’t have these fits
and starts,” Lapan said in an interview at the Pentagon today.
“The Chinese have given signals that they’re willing” to
resume higher level talks.  The Pentagon is seeking more stable and regular contacts to
deal with issues such as China’s military buildup, territorial
disputes and access to the seas that threaten to undermine
regional stability.  The U.S. is looking for “predictability and reliability,”
Lapan said.  Contacts With China  Earlier this month, President  Barack Obama ’s deputy
national security adviser,  Thomas Donilon , met with General  Xu Caihou , a vice chairman of the Communist Party’s Central
Military Commission. In May, Admiral  Robert Willard , commander
of the United States Pacific Command, met top military officials
in Beijing as part of the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic
dialogue.  A potential visit to China for Gates will probably come up
during Schiffer’s talks, even though that’s not the main point,
Lapan said.  Territorial disputes between China and its neighbors have
drawn in the U.S., which has offered to help mediate over the
objections of officials in Beijing. U.S. ally Japan saw
relations with China fall to their worst in five years this
month over the detention of a Chinese fishing boat captain in
disputed waters.  The Pentagon said in an  annual report  to Congress released
last month that new weapons and the development of its first
aircraft carrier give China an increasing ability to operate far
afield. China also continues a military buildup opposite Taiwan
even with improved economic ties across the strait.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Forsythe  in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  