-- Lucian Freud Can’t Stand Leonardo, Avoids the Races: Interview
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2010-09-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/lucian-freud-can-t-stand-leonardo-skips-races-sitter-reveals-interview.html
Lucian Freud  has a lazy left eye,
loves to eat game, and has a low opinion of  Leonardo da Vinci .  Those revelations tumble out of a book about Freud -- the
world’s most expensive living artist at auction -- by  Martin Gayford , Bloomberg News’s chief art critic.  “Man With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by
Lucian Freud” looks back at the eight months Gayford spent
posing. He didn’t get to keep the picture: It was sold to
private collectors for an undisclosed price. A larger Freud
portrait, “ Bruce Bernard ” (1992), sold for 7.9 million pounds
($12.5 million) at a  Christie’s International  sale in June 2007.  The 87-year-old Freud, a diminutive figure with a scarf
knotted around his neck, made a brief appearance at the book’s
London launch. He scanned the room and complimented a man on his
green shirt.  The next day, I met the author at the Wolseley restaurant
in Piccadilly -- where he often dined with Freud -- and began by
asking why he sat for an artist known for magnifying the very
features that humans work hard to conceal.  Gayford: You take your chances as to what kind of image
comes out, because what he’s interested in is producing the best
possible work of art.  I was pleasantly surprised by the painting in that respect.
I thought it was quite an accurate and even flattering
representation of me.  Nayeri: You didn’t fear that you might come out looking
awful?  Gayford: I wondered: Is he going to notice certain things?  Nayeri: Like the hairs in your ears.  Gayford: Exactly.  He certainly did notice that my hair tends to be untidy,
and if I turned up with it neatly combed, that would be ignored.  Chin Up  I also tried at one point keeping my chin up, because I
could tell he was interested in the jowl that appeared under my
chin.  Nayeri: Why are his portraits such a painstaking process?  Gayford: Artists have different speeds. There are some very
fast painters.  Van Gogh  could paint a picture in an hour.  Lucian’s method involves a great deal of observation, a
great deal of thought, and I think that’s what makes the result
what it is. He has observed the subject for hundreds of hours,
more than just the sittings usually.  Nayeri: Why do you think he’s a great painter?  Fresh Images  Gayford: He can do extraordinary things with paint, and is
an absolute virtuoso. Although he’s a naturalistic painter --
and some would say late in the history of naturalistic painting
to come along -- he produces, time and time again, images that
are completely fresh. They’re not hackneyed, they’re not
cliched, they’re not derived from anything.  Nayeri: Freud is a very expensive painter, which is part of
the buzz around him. His “Benefits Supervisor Sleeping” (1995)
fetched $33.6 million at a Christie’s New York sale in May 2008.
What does he think about that?  Gayford: I think he’s not displeased when one of his
pictures makes a record price at auction, but you have to
understand that he has been doing this since 1939, and he has
been through periods when nobody was interested in his work.  Nayeri: Does he still bet on horses?  Gayford: Not anymore. He told me it wasn’t any fun anymore,
because he’d become too rich. So the thrill of it probably was
that he might make a loss that would be really serious.  Nayeri: I was shocked to read that he considers Leonardo da
Vinci a bad painter.  Gayford: It takes some confidence to say that. Leonardo is
a very different kind of painter to Freud.  Airbrushed Leonardo  Lucian likes a sense of weight and volume, and the tactile
qualities of what’s being painted -- so, skin, if it’s a person.
If you have that taste, you find Leonardo is soft and not
substantial. All the brushstrokes are cleared away, and you get
a sort of airbrushed effect.  Nayeri: Another shocker was discovering that he rates
 Picasso  a lesser artist than  Matisse .  Gayford: I think he much admires Picasso, but thinks he was
out to create an effect, was a bit of a performer. He tells this
wonderful story of going to visit Picasso in his Paris studio.  He said when you said goodbye to Picasso, you couldn’t
resist looking up at the windows, and Picasso knew that. So one
day when he looked up, Picasso was making rabbit shapes with his
hands behind the blinds.  “Man With a Blue Scarf” is published by Thames & Hudson
(248 pages, 18.95 pounds).  ( Farah Nayeri  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Farah Nayeri  in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 