-- Tucker's AIA IPO Starts Race With Prudential Protege Thiam
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2010-09-28T16:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/tucker-s-15-billion-ipo-of-aia-starts-confrontation-with-prudential-pupil.html
Prudential Plc’s  Tidjane Thiam 
tried and failed to expand in Asia by buying  AIA Group Ltd. , his
first test as chief executive officer. To succeed now, he will
have to beat AIA’s new CEO and his ex-boss,  Mark Tucker .  This week, Thiam’s former mentor starts gauging investor
appetite for an initial public offering of AIA, which at about
$15 billion would be one of Hong Kong’s largest. AIA’s IPO marks
the beginning of a race that will pit Thiam and Tucker, one-time
colleagues, in a contest for the world’s fastest growing
insurance market.  “It’s a case of eat or be eaten,” said  Christopher Wong ,
a fund manager at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in Singapore,
which oversees $267 billion of assets including Prudential
shares. “The growing sophistication of Asian consumers in terms
of wealth management and family protection is a direct benefit
to life insurers in Asia. It’s going to be a new battleground
for growth.”  Prudential  and AIA are the two biggest international
insurers in Asia and the only two with branches across the
continent. For Thiam, success in Asia will help appease
investors who called for him to quit after his $35.5 billion bid
for AIA collapsed, costing 284 million pounds ($450 million) in
fees. For Tucker, AIA’s IPO will give him independence from
 American International Group Inc. , whose government bailout hurt
sales in 2009. Prudential may be a future takeover target for
AIA, analysts say.  AIA’s IPO  Thiam, 48, inherited an insurer that gets 42 percent of its
sales in Asia from Tucker, 52, who was Prudential’s CEO from
2005 to 2009. Thiam plans to raise sales of health insurance and
products with shorter payback periods in fast-growing economies
such as Vietnam and Indonesia, he said earlier this year.  Tucker, picked to head AIA in July by AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche , plans to raise between $10 billion and $15 billion in
selling part of the company next month, two people with
knowledge of the matter said Sept. 22. The whole of AIA is worth
as much as $38.9 billion Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch &
Co. unit said yesterday. The proceeds of the share sale will go
toward paying for AIG’s $182.3 billion government bailout.  “We’ve been competing for a long time,” Thiam said in an
interview with Bloomberg News on Aug. 12. “It’s well recognized
they are in need of a turnaround. We’ve taken them over in
growth, profitability and in margins. That momentum is real.”  Thiam declined to give a forecast for sales growth in Asia,
saying that expansion depends on factors he can’t control such
as economic growth. “We will do better than the competition,”
he said. “That we can control.”  Tucker Hired Thiam  Patricia Chua, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for AIA,
declined to comment, citing restrictions related to the IPO.
Tucker declined to comment. An AIG spokesman in New York,  Mark Herr , also declined to comment.  Tucker plucked Thiam from rival U.K. insurer  Aviva Plc  in
2008, giving the Ivory Coast-born French national his first job
on the board of a publicly traded company. British-born Tucker,
who was a professional soccer player in his youth and came to
work three years ago the day after breaking his nose in a
scuffle during an amateur match, left Prudential in 2009,
handing the top job to his protege. After announcing his
departure, Tucker said there was “one more big job in me.”  He spent a decade as CEO of Prudential’s Asian division,
expanding into 14 countries and increasing profits to 415
million pounds in 2003 from 4 million pounds in 1993. As CEO,
Tucker increased revenue 17 percent to 48.1 billion pounds in
the four years to 2009.  ‘Fantastic Successor’  “I have a fantastic successor in Tidjane Thiam, who has
immense ability and will do a wonderful job,” Tucker said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television as he stepped down.  Thiam, a graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique in Paris,
began his career in 1986 at McKinsey & Co., the management
consultant. In the 1990s, he took five years out to work in the
Ivory Coast’s government before it was deposed in a military
coup in 1999. He escaped unhurt.  Thiam returned to McKinsey and in 2002 joined Aviva as
director of strategy, where he helped then-CEO  Richard Harvey 
make a 16.9 billion-pound bid for Prudential, the firm he now
leads. The 2006 offer was rejected by Tucker, who hired Thiam at
Prudential two years later.  After investors balked at his record bid for AIA, Thiam now
plans to follow Tucker’s strategy of organic growth in Asia.  “We expect growth in Asia to be very significant and
certainly ahead of other parts of the world,” he said in an
interview. He “ruled out” another bid for AIA.  Revenue Rises  Prudential’s “management is under increased pressure to
deliver higher returns after the deal’s failure, either by
driving the business harder or looking at the returns from a
breakup,” said  Martin Brown , who helps manage 69 billion pounds
at Ignis Asset Management Ltd. in Glasgow. Ignis is one of
Prudential’s biggest 30 shareholders.  Revenue at the London-based Prudential’s Asia division
climbed 30 percent to 359 million pounds in the first quarter of
this year compared with a 16 percent rise to $455 million at
 AIA . Prudential’s profit margins are also wider. Both compete
with firms such as  China Life Insurance Co. ,  Ping An Insurance
(Group) Co.  and  Axa Asia Pacific Holdings Ltd.  in Asia.  While Prudential has accelerated sales in the region since
2008, AIA has been hurt by the government bailout of its parent,
AIG. AIA’s sales declined 5 percent to $11.6 billion in 2009 as
AIG’s rescue deterred potential customers.  Tucker’s New Team  Since Tucker arrived at AIA earlier this year, he has
appointed a number of former Prudential colleagues.  Bill Lisle 
will become AIA’s chief distribution officer and  Ng Keng Hooi 
joins next month as managing director for Thailand, Philippines,
India and Taiwan. Both worked under Tucker during his 10-year
tenure as Prudential’s Asia CEO.  “Prudential’s agents in Asia are currently much more
productive than AIA’s, but I expect AIA to narrow the gap pretty
quickly,” Brown said.  A successful IPO may allow AIA to gain ground on
Prudential, according to Simon Drimer, Singapore-based managing
director of  Pi Financial Services Intelligence , research
consultant specializing in Asian life insurance.  “2009 was a one-off,” he said. “The AIA agency force is
equal to, if not higher quality in some markets, than the Pru
agency forces.”  Selling insurance in Asia at present is comparable to
selling mobile phones in the 1980s, Thiam said in May when
canvassing for investors to support the AIA bid. The number of
sales agents on the ground rather than competitive pricing from
rivals is the main limitation on growth in Asia, he said.  Competition for Agents  “Competition for customers and premiums isn’t as
competitive as one might think,” said  Kenneth Lowe , who helps
manage 15.7 billion pounds including Prudential shares at  Martin
Currie Investment Management Ltd.  in Edinburgh. “Where
competition will come in is in the agency force. We have seen a
large bidding up of good quality agents.”  Prudential had about 410,000 sales agents in Asia at the
end of 2009 compared with about 320,000 at AIA. The two insurers
have competing divisions in Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore
and Malaysia. AIA has more agents in Thailand and the
Philippines while Prudential is bigger in Vietnam and Indonesia.  “People are always crawling all over our team,”  Barry Stowe , CEO of Prudential’s Asian division, said at the company’s
half-year results last month. “We’ve not lost any senior people
to a competitor. It’s something we certainly take seriously.”  Handshake Fees  Markets such as Hong Kong and Singapore are the most
competitive, with the insurers typically offering so-called
handshake fees of as much as $400,000 spread over three years to
new recruits, Pi’s Drimer said.  Failing to beat AIA may “increase the pressure or serve to
be the catalyst for a takeover,” said  Jonathan Newman , an
analyst at  Brewin Dolphin Holdings Plc  in London, which manages
21.6 billion pounds including Prudential shares. “People are
not going to value the Asian bit of the Pru appropriately as
long as it’s attached to the U.S. and the U.K.”  Prudential’s  stock  climbed 22 pence, or 3.6 percent to
637.5 pence, in London trading, the biggest rise in six weeks.
The shares have increased 11 percent since its bid for AIA
collapsed June 1, compared with a gain of 15.1 percent for the
 FTSE ASX life insurance index .  Tucker mulled a bid for AIA when he was CEO of Prudential
in 2008 and backed off, citing the complexity and expense of a
deal, he told reporters in a March 2009 conference call.  An IPO valuing AIA at about the Prudential’s revised offer
of $30.4 billion would give Tucker a platform to make a takeover
bid for his former employer in the future, said  Barrie Cornes , a
London-based analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. with a “buy”
rating on Prudential. “It remains a possibility that at some
point in time Tucker would go down that route,” he said.  That’s not a possibility concerning Thiam. “I love Mark
and respect him, but we’re not going to give airtime to the
competition,” he said. “We can’t become obsessed with AIA. We
don’t see it as a threat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kevin Crowley  in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  