-- Mukherjee Cutting Bond Goal Boosts Demand to Four-Month High: India Credit
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-09-28T05:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/mukherjee-cutting-bond-goal-boosts-demand-to-four-month-high-india-credit.html
India’s combination of reducing
targets for debt sales this fiscal year and opening its market
to more foreign investment is driving demand at the nation’s
bond auctions to a four-month high.  The finance ministry received bids for 2.3 times the 40
billion rupees ($886 million) of  10-year debt  on offer at a
Sept. 24 sale, the most since May 28,  central bank  data show.
The benchmark 2020 bond may hold its gains even after yields
fell almost a quarter percentage point in the past month as the
government cuts borrowing for the first time in four years.  Bond investors are clamoring for India debt as governments
in developed economies from the U.K. to Germany step up
borrowing in response to faltering growth. Policy makers
forecast Asia’s third-biggest economy will grow 8.5 percent,
almost four times as much as advanced nations, as Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  aims to raise 1.46 trillion rupees
from sales of state-owned assets and mobile-phone licenses.  “We’ve had many pleasant surprises this year on the fiscal
front,”  A. Balasubramanian , who oversees the equivalent of
$13.6 billion in debt as chief executive officer at Birla Sun
Life Asset Management Co. in Mumbai, said in a Sept. 23
telephone interview. “The risk-reward is in favor of investing
in government bonds.”  Easing Limits  The nation’s 7.8 percent  bond  due in May 2020 gained for a
seventh day, the longest winning streak since November, after
the government said Sept. 23 it will cut borrowing by 2 percent
to 4.47 trillion rupees in the current fiscal year. The same
day, the finance ministry doubled the quota for foreigners
buying government bonds to $10 billion and raised the limit on
corporate debt by 33 percent to $20 billion.  Overseas  holdings  of India’s corporate and government debt
more than doubled in 2010 to a record $17.7 billion as of Sept.
24, according to data provided by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India.  The 10-year note yield has slid 22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage point, to 7.85 percent from a four-month high of 8.07
percent on Aug. 25 as the price of the security rose. The yield
may drop to 7.5 percent by the end of March, according to
Balasubramanian and  Ramit Bhasin , the Mumbai-based head of
markets in India at Royal Bank of Scotland NV.  If those estimates prove accurate, investors would realize
an annualized return of 11.7 percent for the period.  Yield Difference  India’s 10-year bond yield is the highest among major
economies except Brazil, where similar-maturity notes pay 11.75
percent. Comparable securities offer 7.62 percent in Russia,
3.33 percent in China and 2.54 percent in the U.S.  The  difference  in yields between India’s debt due in a
decade and 10-year Treasuries was 5.33 percentage points. The
measure, which has averaged 3.17 points in the past decade,
reached a two-year high of 5.56 points on Aug. 26.  Mukherjee aims to narrow the  budget deficit  to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product in the year ending March 31, from a
16-year high of 6.9 percent in fiscal 2010. The federal
government plans to sell 110 billion rupees of bonds on Oct. 1,
part of a plan to raise 1.63 trillion rupees in the second half.  “The fiscal story is positive so far because tax
collections have been better than it was last year, probably
well in line with the target,” helping the government pare its
borrowings, said  Rajeev Radhakrishnan , a Mumbai-based money
manager at SBI Funds Management Pvt. The firm is a unit of the
nation’s biggest bank, with $4.9 billion assets in debt.  Taxes collected from companies are poised to rise 18
percent to 3 trillion rupees this year, budget estimates show.  Inflation, Rates  The benchmark yield is unlikely to drop below 7.75 percent
by the end of March as  inflation  near 10 percent prompts the
central bank to raise interest rates by a further 50 basis
points, following a 125 basis-point increase in the  repurchase
rate  since March 19, said  Manoj Swain , chief executive officer
of Morgan Stanley India Primary Dealer in Mumbai.  Inflation as measured by wholesale prices held above 10
percent for four months since March before slowing to 8.5
percent in August, according to commerce ministry data.  “Monetary aspects are negative,” Swain said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There’s hardly any room for a
rally in a big way, though demand would also be better than
earlier” after the government raised the limit for foreigners,
Swain said.  Debt Returns  The fixed average coupon that India pays on its 20.324
trillion of government bonds outstanding with a weighted average
maturity of 10 years is 7.85 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The rate was 7.89 percent in the year ended March
2010, according to the central bank’s annual report.  India’s government securities returned 3.6 percent this
year, the second-worst among 10 local-currency debt markets
outside Japan, according to indexes compiled by London-based
HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest bank.  Asia’s third-biggest economy expanded 8.8 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the best since 2007 and the fastest
pace among major economies excluding China. It is set for a 9.4
percent gain in 2010, outpacing 2.6 percent growth in advanced
countries, the International Monetary Fund forecast in July.  India’s economic outlook led Moody’s Investors Service to
raise the nation’s local-currency rating on July 26 by one level
to Ba1, the highest non-investment grade, and affirm the
nation’s foreign-currency debt rating of Baa3. Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings rate India’s local-currency debt BBB-, the
lowest investment grade.  License Fees  Accelerated investment inflows helped the rupee strengthen
4.3 percent against the dollar this month, the best performance
among Asia’s 10-most traded currencies. The currency traded at
45.13 per dollar today.  Phone companies, including  Reliance Communications Ltd .,
Vodafone Group Plc’s Indian unit, and Bharti Airtel Ltd., paid
the government 677.2 billion rupees this year for permits of
mobile-phone licenses. Indian companies also spent 385.4 billion
rupees to buy wireless-broadband Internet licenses in an auction
held in June.  Policy makers want to raise 400 billion rupees by selling
shares in state-owned companies in the year ending March 2011.
The government plans to divest 10 percent in  Indian Oil Corp. ,
the nation’s second-biggest refiner, and 5 percent in Oil and
Natural Gas Corp., its biggest explorer, Secretary S.
Sundareshan, the top bureaucrat in the oil ministry, told
reporters in New Delhi on Sept. 6.  The revenue, should the government meet its goals, “would
be a huge positive on the fiscal side, which will open up the
possibility of some more reduction in borrowing,” said SBI
Funds Management’s Radhakrishnan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 V. Ramakrishnan  in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  