-- Mundell Says U.S. Action on Yuan Rate Would Be a `Disaster'
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-27T13:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/mundell-says-u-s-measure-on-yuan-would-be-a-disaster-won-t-create-jobs.html
Nobel-Prize winning economist
 Robert Mundell  said U.S. legislation to press China to raise the
value of the yuan would be a “disaster” and fail to narrow the
trade deficit between the two nations.  “This is not going to help Americans,” Mundell said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in Hong Kong. “This is not going
to create jobs for Americans. It’s just going to create a
disaster.”  U.S. lawmakers will vote in two days on legislation that
would let American companies petition for higher duties on
imports from China to compensate for the effect of a weak
currency. The yuan has appreciated about 2 percent against the
dollar since June 19, when China’s central bank said it would
pursue a more flexible exchange rate after keeping the currency
at about 6.83 versus the U.S. currency for almost two years.  The bill “would create a very damaging thing to the world
economy and the stability of Asia,” Mundell said. “This would
have a wounding effect on the stability of international
relations. There’s never been any precedent in economic history
where a country through any legal system was forced to
appreciate its currency relative to another country.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said on Sept. 23 in New York
that if authorities agreed to demands for at least a 20 percent
appreciation of the yuan, it would cause severe job losses and
trigger social instability.  ‘Huge Deficit’  Mundell, who won the Nobel Prize in 1999 for research that
helped lay the foundation for Europe’s single currency, said
there is little historical evidence that China allowing its
currency to appreciate will benefit the U.S. or aid its balance
of payments.  “It’s not going to have much of a dent in the U.S.
deficit,” he said. “America has had a huge deficit since the
1980s. None of that is going to change if China changes its
exchange rate.”  The Columbia University professor said the U.S. should
“get away from these distractions” of trying to pressure China
to allow its currency to appreciate and focus on the larger
“instability” between the dollar and the euro. Policy makers
should try to keep the currencies within a range to prevent
“huge swings” in the price of raw materials such as oil, he
said.  The euro-dollar fluctuation “is a terrible thing for the
world economy,” Mundell said. “We’ve never been in this
unstable position in the entire currency history of 3,000
years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sara Eisen  in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  