-- Hungary Leaves Main Interest Rate Unchanged on Fiscal-Policy Reversal
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-09-27T14:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/hungary-leaves-main-interest-rate-unchanged-on-fiscal-policy-reversal.html
Hungary left its  main interest rate 
unchanged for a fifth month today as the government’s commitment
to fiscal rigor helped curb country risk.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  kept the two-week deposit rate at a
record-low 5.25 percent, matching the expectation of all 19
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The decision was “almost
unanimous” after policy makers discussed cutting the rate to 5
percent, central bank President  Andras Simor  told reporters in
Budapest.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government this month pledged
to reduce the 2011 budget deficit to less than the European
Union limit of 3 percent of output, two months after falling out
with international lenders over the target. The commitment
helped improve Hungary’s risk assessment and changed the stance
of policy makers who had pushed for tightening, Simor said.  The commitment to the deficit target “is key to preserving
investor confidence,” the central bank said in a statement.  The forint strengthened to percent to 277.31 per euro at
4:32 p.m. in Budapest from 277.34 late on Sept. 24. The currency
has gained 3.6 percent against the euro this month, the best
performance of about 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
yield on Hungary’s five-year bonds declined 97 basis points to
6.63 percent after reaching a 2010 high of 7.6 percent on July
23. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Inflation Outlook  There is a “realistic” chance inflation will slow to the
central bank’s 3 percent target, and policy makers will only
raise borrowing costs if it becomes inevitable, because it wants
to help economic recovery, Simor said. Gross domestic product
shrank 6.3 percent last year, the most since 1991.  The August  inflation  rate dropped to the lowest since June
2009, led by declines in prices for clothing and consumer goods.
The central bank in August forecast consumer-price index would
average 4.7 percent this year and 3.5 percent in 2011.  “A rate cut seems more likely in case of positive budget
developments in order to support the economy,”  Elisabeth Andreew , an economist at Nordea Markets in Copenhagen, wrote in
a note to clients. “Of key importance the coming month will be
the draft budget for 2011.”  Rate Outlook  The forint’s earlier losses against the euro and the Swiss
franc have yet to be reflected in prices, Simor said. The
currency dropped to the lowest in more than a year on July 17
after the International Monetary Fund, which helped extend a 20
billion-euro ($26 billion) bailout in 2008, ended a review of
the program without endorsing Orban’s budget plan.  Policy makers raised the possibility of increasing the
benchmark rate in August after the talks broke down. Supporters
of higher borrowing costs, including Simor, argued that an
increase would strengthen the forint, spur domestic demand and
boost economic growth.  A rate increase is still possible, if the inflation outlook
worsens or the country’s risk assessment deteriorates, Simor
said today.  The government bowed to EU pressure to commit to its
predecessor’s budget deficit target of 2.8 percent of GDP for
2011. Detailed plans for next year’s budget, to be released next
month, may further improve the country’s risk assessment, Simor
said today.  ‘Positive View’  “Those who changed their views within the council from
last month did so basically because they had a positive view on
the budget-deficit announcement,” he said. “The market will
only be able to judge the real value of this announcement when
the 2011 budget is unveiled.”  Hungary’s economy showed no growth from the previous three
months in the second quarter as rising exports failed to
compensate for austerity measures that stifled domestic demand.
Annual growth accelerated to 1 percent from 0.1 percent, the
Budapest-based statistics office said on Sept. 8.  The government’s commitment to cut the deficit hasn’t
removed the threat to its credit rating. Hungary needs to
clarify its economic policies for that to happen, Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  