-- UniCredit's Fondazione Cassamarca Shareholder Urges General Manager Role
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2010-09-27T14:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/unicredit-shareholder-fondazione-cassamarca-urges-general-manager-position.html
UniCredit SpA  investor Fondazione
Cassamarca is urging Italy’s biggest bank to create a general
manager position to focus on local matters before picking a new
chief executive officer.  Alessandro Profumo , 53, stepped down as UniCredit’s CEO
last week with no succession plan in place after a dispute with
some of the bank’s Italian shareholders over Libyan investments
in the company. Chairman  Dieter Rampl , 63, was named interim
chief executive and is reviewing candidates for the  CEO post , he
said in a letter to employees Sept. 22.  “Before naming a new chief executive officer, the bank
should change the governance by appointing a general manager,”
said  Dino De Poli , the chairman of Fondazione Cassamarca, which
has a 0.8 percent stake in the Milan-based bank. “UniCredit
needs a general manager who can focus on local territory.”  Profumo turned UniCredit into Italy’s most international
bank during his 13-year tenure as CEO through more than $65
billion of  acquisitions . Tensions flared with the foundations
that together own more than 11 percent of the company when he
turned to investors for cash twice in 18 months during the
credit crisis. Relations soured further when  Libyan investors 
increased their holdings in the bank.  ‘Didn’t Share’ Plans  Creating the position of general manager would limit the
power of the CEO, Poli said. He favors an internal candidate for
the general manager role, because he would already have
knowledge of the company.  “Profumo didn’t share his plans with shareholders,” Poli
said in an interview today. “The Libyan case is just an
example. He only informed us of his decisions, without asking
our opinion.”  Italy’s banking foundations are non-profit entities created
two decades ago when the government started privatizing lenders.
The foundations were formed to separate the savings banks’
philanthropic work from the lenders, which became corporations.
They retain stakes in Italy’s biggest banks, including UniCredit
and Milan-based  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , investments that fund their
philanthropic expenditures.  UniCredit  rose 1.3 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 1.90 euros by
3:21 p.m. in Milan trading, giving the company a market value of
36.7 billion euros ($49.50 billion.)  ‘Redundant’  Roberto Nicastro , one of four deputy CEOs, may be the
leading candidate for general manager,  Corriere della Sera 
reported on Sept. 25, without saying where it got the
information. Not all investors agree that the position is
necessary.  “A general manager role is redundant, considering that
most of UniCredit’s revenue comes from abroad,” said  Davide Manenti , a fund manager at Nuovi Investimenti in Milan who
doesn’t hold UniCredit shares.  Rampl may discuss the matter at a board meeting scheduled
for Sept. 30 in Warsaw. The chairman is meeting investors and
managers to find a consensus on a candidate to replace Profumo.
 Andrea Orcel , Bank of America Corp.’s executive chairman of
global banking and markets, former Capitalia SpA CEO  Matteo Arpe 
and Allianz SE’s Italian chief  Enrico Cucchiani  are under
consideration, according to Italian daily La Repubblica.  A UniCredit official in Rome declined to comment.  ‘Over the Years’  Profumo’s fall had its roots in the expansion he led.
Takeovers left him short of funds when confidence in banks
collapsed in 2008 and credit became scarce. The recent
investments by the Libya Investment Authority, a sovereign
wealth fund, and the Central Bank of Libya were opposed by the
banking foundations.  “The decision to oust Profumo has built up over the
years,” said  Luca Peviani , managing director at P&G Sgr, a
Rome-based provider of alternative asset management services.
“He was no longer reflecting the interests of shareholders.”  Fondazione Cassamarca, based in Treviso, Italy, backed
Profumo’s decision to expand in central and eastern Europe, Poli
said.  “UniCredit should continue to focus on CEE, as it will
likely continue to have improving growth margins,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  