-- Unilever Agrees to Buy Alberto Culver for $3.7 Billion
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-09-27T10:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/unilever-agrees-to-buy-chicago-based-alberto-culver-for-3-7-billion-cash.html
Unilever , the maker of Dove soap,
agreed to buy  Alberto Culver Co.  for $3.7 billion in cash to add
VO5, Nexxus and TRESemme hair-care products in the company’s
biggest purchase in a decade.  Unilever will pay $37.50 a share for the Melrose Park,
Illinois-based business, Alberto Culver said in a statement
today. That’s about 19 percent more than the closing price on
Sept. 24. The purchase will add to earnings per share in its
first year, Unilever said in a separate statement.  Chief Executive Officer Paulac Polman is expanding in home
and personal-care products as part of a plan to double total
sales. Unilever spent much of the decade shedding brands
following the 2000 purchase of Bestfoods. Polman, who joined in
2009 after a career at Nestle SA and Procter & Gamble Co.,
agreed to buy Sara Lee Corp.’s body-care operations last year.  “It’s a sensible deal, has good strategic rationale and is
positive, but it’s not transformational -- it’s a bolt-on deal
like the Sara Lee one,” said Martin Deboo, an analyst at
Investec Securities in London.  Shares of Unilever rose as much as 2.1 percent to 22.31
euros a share in Amsterdam and traded at 22.18 euros a share as
of 12:18 p.m. The stock has lost 2.6 percent this year.  ‘Massive Brands’  Alberto Culver had sales of $1.6 billion and earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $250
million for the 12-month period ended June 30, according to
Unilever. Unilever offered to pay 1.7 times annual revenue for
the Sara Lee business.  “It’s a perfect synergy because Alberto Culver is a midcap
stock with some massive brands,” Victoria Collin, a London-
based analyst at Atlantic Equities, said today. “TRESemme is
the jewel in its crown and the sales are relatively high.”  The purchase makes Unilever the biggest maker of hair
conditioning products in the world and the second-largest in
shampoo, it said today. It will be the third-largest in styling.  Unilever entered the professional hair-product market in
2009 with the purchase of the TIGI salon brands from the
creators of Toni & Guy for $411.5 million. The Alberto Culver
acquisition includes Simple, a skin-care company it bought in
2009 for about 240 million pounds ($379 million).  “Personal care is a strategic category for Unilever and
growing rapidly,” Polman commented today in the statement.
“Ten years ago it represented 20 percent of our turnover;
strong organic growth has driven it to now reach over 30
percent.”  Expansion  In August, the executive said that he saw about 80 percent
of so-called organic growth coming from emerging markets, driven
by the health and personal-care sector, which is “easier to do
than with some of our food brands.”  Unilever is aiming to expand outside of western Europe, the
only region where its sales fell in the first half, amid
sluggish consumer spending and increasing competition from
rivals including Procter & Gamble and Nestle. Alberto Culver
made about 64 percent of its sales in the United States in the
year ended September, 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  The mass-market haircare sector in the U.S. has been
showing “low single-digit” declining growth, according to
Collin. Alberto Culver’s third-quarter sales rose 11 percent,
excluding the impact of currency fluctuations and acquisition,
it said in July.  Divestments  The maker of Knorr soups on Sept. 24 agreed to sell its
consumer tomato products business in Brazil to Cargill Inc. for
about 260 million euros ($350 million). The company sold its
Italian frozen-foods unit in July for about 805 million euros.  Unilever was advised by Morgan Stanley and UBS AG,
according to spokesman Paul Matthews. BDT & Company was Alberto
Culver’s financial adviser, while Credit Suisse Securities LLC
provided a fairness opinion, the company said in a statement.
The acquisition will be funded from existing cash resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Celeste Perri
at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 