-- Murchison Falls to Lowest in Year on Concern Mitsubishi May Scrap Venture
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-09-27T07:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/murchison-metals-pares-trading-losses-after-disputing-mitsubishi-report.html
Murchison Metals Ltd. , an
Australian iron ore developer, fell to the lowest level in a
year on concern partner Mitsubishi Corp. may pull out of a mine
and port venture.  Murchison  shares, halted temporarily during trading hours,
closed down 10 percent to A$1.625 on the Australian stock
exchange. The stock pared losses after declining as much as 17
percent to a two-year low after Perth-based Murchison said there
was “no substance” to a report that Mitsubishi sought to
withdraw or change the terms of the agreement in the 50:50
Crosslands iron ore venture.  “This is the risk with single-project companies,” said
 Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about $1.6 billion at Platypus
Asset Management in Sydney. “There’s nothing much to fall back
on if the project execution faces hurdles of any sort.”  Mitsubishi  may abandon the expansion of the A$3 billion
($2.9 billion) Jack Hills iron ore project in West Australia’s
Midwest region, the Australian newspaper said on Sept. 25. The
expansion comprises mine and port infrastructure.  Murchison has found “no substance” in suggestions that
Mitsubishi intends to “withdraw or dilute its involvement in
the infrastructure and mining joint ventures,” the Australian
company said in a statement.  The partners also founded the A$4 billion Oakajee port
development project as part of the venture agreed to in 2007.  “The company continues to expect the first iron exports
through the new Oakajee port in 2014,” Murchison said.  Mitsubishi and Murchison are expected to complete a study
into the expansion of the Jack Hills project by the fourth
quarter, Executive Chairman  Paul Kopejtka  said in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisabeth Behrmann  in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net  