-- Vale Signals No Big Acquisitions in the Short-Term, Bank of America Says
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2010-09-27T15:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/vale-signals-no-big-acquisitions-with-share-buyback-boa-says.html
Vale SA , the Brazilian miner that
last week unveiled a stock buyback and extraordinary dividend,
is indicating that it won’t pursue “big acquisitions” in the
short-term, Bank of America Corp. said in a report.  Vale, the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, is returning
its “excess cash flows” to shareholders and not saving it to
finance purchases,  Felipe Hirai  and  Thiago Lofiego , analysts at
Bank of America in Sao Paulo, said in a note to clients dated
yesterday. “One key implicit message from the higher
dividends/buybacks is that the company is not going to pursue
big acquisitions in the short term,” they said.  Vale, based in Rio de Janeiro, last week approved a stock
buyback of as much as $2 billion and proposed a $1 billion
extraordinary  dividend  to return to shareholders the funds
generated from asset sales. The company also proposed to boost
its regular dividend by $500 million on top of the $2.5 billion
“minimum” dividend announced earlier this year.  Vale’s focus on so-called organic growth along with its
“strong results” and “higher levels” of iron-ore prices may
lead to a gradual re-rating of the company shares, the Bank of
America’s analysts said.  “Big M&As are often seen as a key risk at Vale, which
prevents higher valuation multiples for the stock,” they said.  Vale may generate earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in excess of $30 billion “for the
next few years,” the analysts said.  The company on July 29 reported a more than fourfold
increase in  second-quarter profit  after iron-ore prices surged
from the prior year. Net income climbed to $3.7 billion from
$790 million.  Vale spent $28.3 billion in acquisitions excluding net debt
since May 2000, according to the company’s  website .  Vale’s  preferred shares rose 1.3 percent to 45.22 reais in
Sao Paulo trading at 10:59 a.m. New York time. The stock has
gained 25 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Juan Pablo Spinetto  in London at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  