-- Cooking Oils May Extend Rally as Supply Deficit Widens on Weather Damage
-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-09-27T02:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/vegetable-oils-to-extend-rally-as-supply-deficit-widens-on-weather-damage.html
Vegetable oil prices may extend a
rally as weather damage to oilseed crops from Russia to Canada
adds to a global production deficit, analysts said.  Palm oil may climb as much as 18 percent to 3,200 ringgit
($1,034) a metric ton by January and soybeans may advance to $12
a bushel by December,  Dorab Mistry , director at Godrej
International Ltd., said yesterday in Mumbai. Soybean oil may
surge as much as 20 percent to 54 cents a pound in the next six
months, according to TransGraph Consulting Pvt.  Dryness may delay soybean sowing in Brazil and Argentina,
the top suppliers after the U.S., while freezing weather
threatens canola crops in Canada and soybean plants in China,
the biggest consumer of both oilseeds. Growth in global
vegetable oil supplies may lag behind surging demand for a third
straight year, said Mistry, who’s traded edible oils for more
than three decades.  “There’s going to be demand for an additional 3 million
tons of soyoil next year and that makes me very bullish about
prices,” said  Thomas Mielke , executive director of Oil World,
without providing a forecast.  Soybeans for November delivery advanced for a fourth day,
gaining as much as 1.6 percent to $11.44 a bushel in Chicago,
the highest price since June 2009. The most-active contract has
surged 27 percent from this year’s low reached on June 6.
December-delivery soybean oil increased 0.4 percent to a two-
year high of 45.06 cents.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-long position in Chicago soybean oil futures by 20,906
contracts, or 48 percent, in the week ended Sept. 21 from a week
earlier, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
Net-long positions for the  oilseed  futures rose 11 percent.  Supply Drop  Global vegetable-oil supply will rise 3.8 million tons in
the year starting Oct. 1, less than the 4.5 million-ton jump in
demand, Mistry said. Rapeseed oil output may drop by as much as
1.2 million tons and sunflower seed oil supply will drop by at
least 300,000 tons, matching this year’s decline, he said.  “While attempting to bridge the supply gap created by
rapeseed and sunflower oils, soybean oil stocks for 2010-2011
will dwindle toward five-year lows of 2.38 million tons,” said
Murali Krishna P.V., chief executive officer of TransGraph, an
adviser to traders. Global edible oil stockpiles in the season
will “dwindle to an alarming level of 26 days of consumption,
providing reasons for prices to appreciate in the medium term,”
Krishna said.  Vegetable oil consumption may increase by 7 million tons in
2010-2011, with biodiesel accounting for half the demand, Mielke
said. Soybean oil will “fill the gap” created by rapeseed in
biodiesel production in the European Union, Murali said.  ‘Irrational Exuberance’  Higher soybean oil prices may “pave the way” for palm oil
to rally, Mistry said. The two are the most-consumed cooking
oils and can be used interchangeably in food and fuel. Soybean
oil’s  premium  over palm oil widened to $116.32 a ton on Sept. 24,
the most since July 13, according to Bloomberg data.  Palm oil, which has rebounded 19 percent from an eight-
month low on July 7, may trade between 3,000 ringgit and 3,200
ringgit by January as India and China, the top users, rebuild
inventories, said Mistry, who correctly forecast in March that
prices would rise in the second half. The price may reach as
high as 3,300 ringgit in six months, TransGraph’s Murali said.  The December-delivery contract gained 2.1 percent last week
to 2,701 ringgit on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange, advancing
for a fourth week. Futures may drop 150 ringgit to 200 ringgit
by end of October as Malaysian output rebounds, Mistry said.  Still, not all analysts are bullish. Prices of soybean and
palm oils should each be lower by $100 a ton as palm-oil output
picks up, plantations recover from low use of fertilizers 18
months ago and plentiful rain this year aids plants, said  James Fry , managing director of U.K.-based LMC International.  “Irrational exuberance is alive and well in the vegetable
oil market,” Fry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 