-- Venezuelan Bonds Gain as Chavez Loses Congressional Seats in Worst Setback
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2010-09-27T22:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/venezuela-bond-yields-fall-to-five-week-low-as-chavez-loses-congress-vote.html
Venezuela’s bonds posted the
biggest gain among major emerging-market countries after
President  Hugo Chavez  lost his two-thirds majority in congress,
a signal that his socialist policies may be challenged.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan bonds
instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 28 basis points, or 0.28
percentage point, to 11.49 percent at 5:42 p.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ index. The yield on
the nation’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar bond due 2027 fell 53
basis points to 13.41 percent, its biggest drop in more than
three months.  The results are “positive” and “potentially limit
Chavez’s ability to push through unfriendly market policies,”
 Eduardo Suarez , an emerging-markets strategist at RBC Capital
Markets in Toronto, wrote in a report today.  Opposition candidates secured 52 percent of the overall
popular vote in yesterday’s elections, in Chavez’s worst setback
at the ballot box since taking office in 1999. Chavez’s party,
while securing 98 of 165 seats in the National Assembly after
redrawing electoral districts, fell short of the 110-seat
threshold needed to be given decree powers, approve the national
budget and pass new laws single-handedly. Opposition candidates
won 61 seats. Election officials didn’t provide a tally of the
overall vote.  Chavez is seeking to turn Venezuela into a socialist nation
and has moved to limit capitalist enterprises.  This year Chavez took control of 43 brokerages, including
the country’s largest trading firm, Econoinvest, and jailed 12
directors in a bid to regulate the foreign currency market.
Chavez accused the companies of setting artificial exchange
rates, laundering money and fueling capital flight.  Currency Market Shut  Chavez shut the unregulated currency market in May after
the exchange rate plunged to as weak as 8.2 bolivars per dollar,
causing  inflation to spike  to a two-year high. Companies and
individuals used brokerages to obtain dollars when they couldn’t
get permission from the government to buy at the official rates
of 2.6 and 4.3 bolivars per dollar.  The president also expropriated food distributors after
blaming them for double-digit inflation amid a recession.  Chavez said in a message on his Twitter account that
yesterday’s results are a “strong victory” for his Bolivarian
socialist revolution and are “sufficient to continue deepening
Bolivarian and democratic socialism.”  Years in Power  A 55-year-old former army paratrooper, Chavez has won more
than a dozen elections during his 11 years in power on the back
of government spending on social programs amid an oil windfall.
The economy slid into recession last year for the first time
since 2003, stripping the state of resources and forcing Chavez
to hoard  dollar reserves  and pare imports of food and factory
equipment.  Venezuelan financial asset prices should gain as the vote
increases the chances of the opposition winning in the 2012
presidential elections and after the government “recognized the
adverse result,”  Alejandro Grisanti , an economist at Barclays
Plc in New York, wrote in a report today.  “Both facts increase the possibility of a democratic and
peaceful transition -- a scenario currently assigned a
probability close to zero by the market,” wrote Grisanti.
“This change in view should translate into higher asset
prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Jaramillo  in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  