-- Wal-Mart Offers to Buy South Africa's Massmart for $4.2 Billion
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n ,   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-09-27T20:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/wal-mart-offers-to-buy-south-africa-s-massmart-holdings-for-21-08-a-share.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest retailer, plans to buy  Massmart Holdings Ltd.  in a
transaction worth about $4.6 billion, entering Africa in its
biggest deal in more than a decade.  Wal-Mart’s proposed offer of 148 rand ($21.10) a share
would value South Africa’s second-largest listed retailer at
about 32 billion rand including share options, Massmart Chief
Executive Officer  Grant Pattison  said today. The offer price is
9.8 percent higher than Massmart’s last closing price and 66
percent above the share price at the end of last year.  Wal-Mart is ramping up international expansion as it
attempts to make up for slowing growth in the U.S., where same-
store sales have fallen for five consecutive quarters. South
Africa, the biggest  economy  on the continent, represents a
platform for expansion into southern Africa, according to  Andy Bond , Wal-Mart’s executive vice president overseeing the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company’s operations in the region.  “It’s a vote of confidence in the country and in the
retail sector,” said  Syd Vianello , a retail analyst at Nedcor
Securities in Johannesburg with a “hold” rating on Massmart.
“It’s a rich price they’re paying. Wal-Mart obviously believes
they can do a hell of a lot more with Massmart.”  Shares Gain  The deal would be a 15.3 percent premium over Massmart’s
average close in the 20 days prior to the announcement,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 14
percent for other retail industry deals over the past five
years. In the 12 acquisitions Wal-Mart has made over that
period, it paid an average premium of 23 percent.  Massmart surged 11 percent to 149 rand in Johannesburg,
giving the company a market value of 30 billion rand, after
earlier climbing as much as 14 percent. Wal-Mart dropped 60
cents to $53.48 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Massmart’s stock trades at a  multiple  of 26.3 times
earnings, the highest of all listed South African retailers.
Shoprite, the country’s biggest listed retailer, has a ratio of
21.1. Massmart operates 290 stores, mostly in South Africa. The
retailer has 24 stores in 12 other African countries including
Botswana, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Nigeria and Ghana.  The purchase would be Wal-Mart’s  largest  since it bought
U.K. supermarket chain Asda for about $11 billion in 1999. Wal-
Mart said in August that cash flow was about $4.5 billion,
compared with $4.2 billion in the prior year.  “By Wal-Mart standards, this is a pretty chunky deal and
shows our commitment to the market,” Wal-Mart’s Bond said in an
interview today. Massmart is “a strong food provider through
the wholesale channel, but also an emerging, food retail
business and finally a good platform.”  Global Reach  Wal-Mart operated more than 4,000 stores in 14 foreign
countries through April, with sales outside the U.S. topping
more than $100 billion in the most recent fiscal year.  “Investors may have reservations about the company’s
decision to pursue acquisitions in a new part of the world,
particularly at such high multiples,” analyst  Colin McGranahan 
of Sanford C. Bernstein said in a note to clients. The
acquisition “may disappoint people hoping that the company
would begin to return more capital to shareholders.” The New
York-based analyst rates the shares “market perform.”  In May, the Asda unit agreed to buy the Netto’s discount-
supermarket chain for about $1.2 billion. International chief
 Doug McMillon  said in June that the company has pursued several
acquisitions in Russia, where it doesn’t have any stores.  Wal-Mart also may be interested in acquisitions in
countries such as Turkey, Colombia, Peru, and Japan to expand
internationally, according to  Bryan Roberts , global research
director at consultancy Planet Retail in London. McMillon said
in June that the Americas are Wal-Mart’s “first priority” when
it comes to expansion, followed by Asia and then Europe.  Bond wouldn’t comment on whether Wal-Mart would seek
further deals in Africa or add to Massmart’s smaller food retail
business. Massmart’s operations are mostly wholesale.  Right Market  “It’s the right market and the right entry vehicle for us
and they themselves have aggressive plans for growth that we
hope to support,” Bond said.  The South African company last month reported a 7 percent
decline in profit in the year through June 27 as job losses from
the 2009 recession curbed consumer spending.  South Africa’s economy is expected to expand 3.2 percent
this year, compared with a contraction of 1.8 percent in 2009,
the International Monetary Fund said on Sept. 21. Growth will
probably reach 3.6 percent in 2011 and 3.9 percent in 2012.  Growth in Sub-Saharan Africa will probably reach 5 percent
in 2010 and 5.9 percent in 2011, the IMF said on July 8. That
compares with 2.6 percent expansion in 2010 and 2.4 percent in
2011 in advanced economies, according to the IMF.  Wal-Mart will hold exclusive talks with Massmart while a
number of conditions are met, including due diligence studies,
the South African company said. The retailer said “there can be
no certainty” that the talks will lead to a formal offer.  “It’s early days,” CEO Pattison said. “We haven’t been
in deep discussion” about Massmart’s growth strategy. He said
he has “no intention of not being part of any transaction.”  Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are advising
Massmart on the transaction, Pattison said. Rothschild is
advising Wal-Mart, according to company spokesman  Kevin Gardner .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net ;
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 