-- Werner Says Mexican Tax Cut Proposal May Be `Confusing Signal' to Markets
-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 2010-09-27T18:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/werner-says-mexican-tax-cut-proposal-may-be-confusing-signal-to-markets.html
Cutting Mexico’s value-added tax as
proposed by the country’s largest opposition party would send a
“very confusing signal to markets,” former Deputy Finance
Minister  Alejandro Werner  said.  The bill to lower the sales tax to 15 percent from 16
percent represents a reversal of recent efforts by President
 Felipe Calderon  to strengthen public finances and if passed
would weaken the peso and push bond yields and credit default
swaps higher, Werner said in an interview from Madrid.  Luis Videgaray, head of the lower house budget committee
and member of the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party,
on Sept. 23 said the party may propose a wider deficit and
increased oil price estimate in the 2011 budget as it aims to
lower the tax. Such steps may lead to a downgrade of Mexico’s
credit rating, Werner said.  “It would be perceived as a step in an incorrect
direction,” said Werner, who left his post last month and is
now teaching at business school  Instituto de Empresas  in Madrid.
“It would send a very confusing signal to markets since Mexico
has always taken congruent fiscal measures in the past decade.”  The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent bond due in 2024 rose as
much as 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.47
percent after Videgaray made his Sept. 23 comments. The cost of
protecting Mexican debt against non-payment for five years with
credit-default swaps rose 3.4 basis points to close at 133.5 on
Sept. 23.  Bond Yields  The yield on Mexico’s 10 percent bond due in 2024 has
fallen 186 basis points, or 1.88 percentage points, to 6.39
percent since the beginning of the year. The yield fell six
basis points at 1:17 p.m. New York time, according to Banco
Santander SA.  The peso strengthened 0.1 percent to 12.5221 per dollar at
1:50 p.m. New York time from 12.5397 on Sept. 24.  “The peso would depreciate, interest rates would rise, the
stock exchange would be lightly affected,” Werner said about
the impact of a possible sales tax cut and increase in the
deficit. “Above all, it would send a signal of less credibility
about our macroeconomic framework.”  By law, Mexico must maintain a  balanced budget  unless
officials prove that exceptional economic circumstances justify
a deficit.  Last year, Mexico approved a deficit of 0.75 percent of
gross domestic product for 2010, not including debt from the
state oil company, saying a recession warranted an exception to
the law. The economy contracted 6.5 percent last year, the most
since 1932, amid the global financial crisis. The 2010 budget
promised the deficit would narrow to 40 billion pesos in 2011
and become balanced in 2012.  2011 Deficit  Mexico should maintain last year’s commitment to a deficit
of around 0.3 percent of GDP for 2011 because the economy has
improved and in order to reassure investors that the country is
being consistent with the policy it set last year, Werner said.  Lawmakers also shouldn’t raise the 2011 budgeted oil price
from the level of $63 a barrel proposed by the government,
Werner said.  “The oil price shouldn’t be perceived as a variable that
is merely adjusted in order to have enough revenue to justify
more spending,” he said. “The market will perceive those
revenues as fictitious, and therefore to the eyes of the market
it will be like having a larger deficit.”  Mexican law requires that the budgeted oil price be
determined by a formula that uses variables such as the average
price for Mexican crude in prior years and West Texas
Intermediate futures prices.  Oil Price Formula  While the formula can yield a range of several different
prices, the maximum range is usually less than a dollar, said
Lourdes Rocha, an economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit in
Mexico City. Lawmakers and the Finance Ministry can also
negotiate to raise the price, Rocha said.  Last year, lawmakers raised the forecast for the average
oil price in 2010 to $59 a barrel from $53.90 in Calderon’s
original proposal.  Mexico last year increased the sales tax to 16 percent as
well as raising income taxes in a bid to boost public finances
amid the recession and falling oil revenue.  Standard & Poor’s in December cut Mexico’s foreign-currency
debt rating to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade, from
BBB+, with a stable outlook, saying the government failed to
broaden the tax base significantly. Fitch Ratings downgraded the
country in November. Moody’s rates Mexico at Baa1, the third-
lowest investment grade rating.  The lower house must approve the income portion of the
budget by Oct. 20, and the spending portion by Nov. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jens Erik Gould  in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  