-- Wheat Quality Downgraded as Queensland Has Wettest September on Record
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2010-09-27T06:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/wheat-quality-downgraded-as-queensland-has-wettest-september-on-record.html
Wet weather has damaged some
early-harvested wheat crops in Australia, the fourth-largest
shipper, as parts of central Queensland state recorded the
wettest September on record, growers group  AgForce  said.  “They have been having lots of delays,” Wayne Newton,
grains president at the group, said by phone from Dalby,
Queensland. “There is going to be a significant proportion of
that central Queensland crop that will be downgraded.”  La Nina weather has brought increased rain to Australia’s
eastern states, boosting the crop production outlook to the
third-highest on record, according to the federal government’s
commodity forecaster. Still, the wet conditions also raise the
risks from disease and quality downgrading, Rabobank Groep NV
agricultural analyst  Wayne Gordon  said last week.  “Most of the areas in central Queensland have had a fair
bit of rain on their wheat and sprouting is becoming quite an
issue,” Newton said today. The central Queensland area may
account for about a quarter of the state’s output, he said.
Sprouted wheat is typically downgraded for feed use.  Wheat for December delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade
rose 0.7 percent to $7.2525 at 1:03 p.m. Melbourne time. The
futures have gained 34 percent this year.  Queensland may produce 1.58 million metric tons this
harvest, or about 6 percent of the national crop of 25.1
million tons, according to the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics-Bureau of Rural Sciences.
The state mostly produces hard milling wheat with at least 11.5
percent protein.  Harvest Progress  The wheat harvest progresses southward from central
Queensland and will be completed by early January.  Eastern Australia’s grain areas mostly have at least a 60
percent chance of above-average rain in the next three months
as the La Nina influences weather patterns, according to the
Bureau of Meteorology’s seasonal  outlook  on Sept. 23. A La Nina
is characterized by colder-than-normal sea-surface temperatures
in the Pacific Ocean.  Emerald, in central Queensland, has received a record 139
millimeters (5.5 inches) of rain this month compared with a
September average of 23.5 millimeters, according to the bureau.
Springsure, in the same region, has received 305.8 millimeters,
breaking the record of 181.9 millimeters set in 1886, according
to the bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  