-- Wheat Drops as Livestock-Feed Demand May Fall Amid Declining Corn Prices
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2010-09-27T20:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/wheat-drops-as-livestock-feed-demand-may-fall-amid-declining-corn-prices.html
Wheat futures fell on signs that
demand will ease as the price of corn, also used in livestock
feed, dropped for the fifth time in six sessions.  Dry weather in the U.S. in the next two weeks will increase
the pace of the corn harvest, said  Jason Britt , the president of
Central States Commodities Inc. in Kansas City, Missouri. Wheat
prices dropped 2.6 percent last week.  “It’s going to be a very open week for the harvest for
corn,” Britt said. “They’re all interconnected, so if we see
some harvest weakness develop, you’re probably going to bring
wheat back a little.”  Wheat futures for December delivery declined 13.5 cents, or
1.9 percent, to close at $7.065 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. The price has jumped 47 percent since
the end of June as wet weather curbed production in Canada and
the most-severe drought in 50 years hurt Russian crops.  Corn futures for December delivery fell 9 cents, or 1.7
percent, to $5.1275 a bushel.  Last year, the U.S. was the biggest wheat exporter,
followed by Canada, Russia and Australia, Department of
Agriculture data show.  The price may rebound as the dollar’s slump enhances the
appeal of U.S. exports. The greenback has dropped 4.6 percent
this month against a basket of major currencies.  “The psychology of the weaker dollar is absolutely taking
place,” Britt said. “It’s going to help prices. Over time, a
weaker dollar tends to keep exports more competitive.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 