-- Treasuries Advance, Two-Year Yield Near Record on Economic Growth Concern
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-09-27T12:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/two-year-treasury-yields-near-record-low-as-manufacturing-may-be-slowing.html
Treasuries advanced, pushing the
two-year yield to within about three basis points of a record
low, as economists said an industry report this week will show
manufacturing growth slowed in September.  Two-year notes  yielded  about 19 basis points more than the
upper range of the Federal Reserve’s target for overnight loans
between banks on speculation the central bank will increase
Treasury purchases this year to hold down borrowing costs. The
 spread  narrowed to 16.95 basis points on Sept. 21, the least
since Dec. 15, 2008, the day before the Fed last reduced the
rate. The Treasury is scheduled to sell $36 billion of two-year
securities today, the first of three note sales this week.  “The main driver for near-term direction in Treasuries
will be economic data,” said  John Davies , a fixed-income
strategist at WestLB AG in London. “The big answer to whether
we can underpin the rebound we’ve had is going to be found at
the end of this week with the ISM data.”  The two-year note  yield  declined 1 basis point to 0.44
percent at 8:42 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market
Data, compared with the record low of 0.4074 percent reached on
Sept. 22. The 0.375 percent security due in August 2012 traded
at 99 7/8. The benchmark 10-year note yield fell 4 basis points
to 2.56 percent. The 30-year bond yield dropped 6 basis points
to 3.73 percent.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  fell to
54.5 this month from 56.3 in August, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists before the Oct. 1 report. Household
purchases rose 0.4 percent in August, the same as in July,
Commerce Department figures the same day may show.  Buying Treasuries  The Fed said in August it would use principal payments from
its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities and agency
debt to buy Treasuries. It announced on Sept. 21 it is prepared
to do more to help the economy and to keep costs from falling,
adding to speculation policy makers are contemplating adding
securities to the Fed’s holdings, a strategy known as
quantitative easing.  “Yields will fall into year-end,” said  Tomohisa Fujiki ,
an interest-rate strategist in Tokyo at BNP Paribas Securities
Japan Ltd., whose U.S. unit is one of the 18 primary dealers
that are required to bid at the government’s debt sales. “The
Fed is going to increase its Treasury purchases.” The 10-year
note yield will drop to 2 percent by year-end, Fujiki said.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices, was 1.86 percentage points.
The five-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  Treasuries have returned 2.2 percent this quarter, and are
up 8.2 percent in 2010, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Global sovereign bonds handed investors gains of
1.8 percent since June and 5.7 percent this year, the indexes
show.  Fed Model  This year’s rally in Treasuries has pushed yields so low
that a Fed  measure  of risk shows U.S. government securities are
too expensive.  The financial model, which includes expectations for
interest rates, growth and inflation, shows Treasuries are the
most overvalued since the financial crisis in December 2008,
just before 10-year note yields almost doubled in the following
six months. Investors who held  10-year  securities through that
period lost 13 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  While Treasuries have risen this year, they are down 0.5
percent this month even after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
fellow policy makers signaled last week they may be willing to
embark on another round of quantitative easing. Investors are
concerned yields can’t fall further without another recession.  ‘Hard to Justify’  “It’s very hard to justify where yields are now, unless we
are indeed on the verge of something really awful,” said  Johan Jooste , a strategist at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
Global Wealth Management unit in London where he helps invest
about $1.4 trillion. “We are aware that there is a short-term
factor, such as possibility that the Fed might buy bonds. But
longer term, you have to ask yourself what you get paid if you
hold government bonds.”  Investors in a survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc., a unit of
the world’s largest inter-dealer broker, became more bearish on
the outlook for Treasuries through the end of June 2011.  Ried’s sentiment index dropped to 42 for the seven days
ended Sept. 24 from 44 in the week before. A figure less than 50
indicates that investors expect prices to fall.  The two-year notes being sold today yielded 0.46 percent in
pre-auction trading, versus the prior record low of 0.498
percent at the previous auction on Aug. 24. Investors  bid  for
3.12 times the amount on offer last month, versus an average of
3.14 for the past 10 sales.  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 29.2 percent of the notes,
compared with the 10-sale average of 38.1 percent.  The Treasury is also scheduled to auction $35 billion of
five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion in seven-year securities
the following day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  