-- Ryder Cup's Pavin Took Montgomerie's Advice in Naming Woods to U.S. Squad
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-09-27T13:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/woods-picked-for-u-s-ryder-cup-squad-on-montgomerie-s-word-pavin-says.html
Tiger Woods  has the backing of
European captain  Colin Montgomerie  for this week’s Ryder Cup.  The American was selected by U.S. captain  Corey Pavin  after
not playing well enough to qualify automatically. Woods is
winless in 11 PGA Tour events this season, and has struggled
since details about his relationships with several women came
out after he crashed his sports-utility vehicle into a fire
hydrant outside his home in November.  Montgomerie “actually recommended to me that I include
Tiger,” U.S. captain Corey Pavin told reporters today at a
press conference. “I’m just following his recommendation.”  The 34-year-old will be playing for the sixth time in the
biennial event, which matches European and American golfers.
Woods has a 10-13-2 record in 25 matches, including a 3-1-1 mark
in singles competition.  “Tiger is the best player to ever play the game,”
Montgomerie said. “I’m delighted to see him here, and we
welcome him.”  The matches of the  38th edition  of the competition start
Oct. 1 and finish Oct. 3 at Celtic Manor in Wales. While the
U.S. defeated Europe 16 1/2 to 11 1/2 two years ago, the
Americans haven’t won in Europe since 1993 at the Belfry in
England.  Pavin also added  Zach Johnson , Stewart Cink and  Rickie Fowler  as captain’s picks. Phil Mickelson,  Hunter Mahan ,  Bubba Watson ,  Jim Furyk ,  Steve Stricker ,  Dustin Johnson ,  Jeff Overton 
and  Matt Kuchar  had already qualified for the U.S. squad after
the PGA Championship last month.  European Squad  The European team includes England’s  Lee Westwood , Ian
Poulter and Ross Fisher, Germany’s  Martin Kaymer , Rory McIlroy
and Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland, Italy’s Francesco
Molinari, Spain’s Miguel Angel Jimenez and Sweden’s Peter
Hanson. Ireland’s  Padraig Harrington , England’s Luke Donald and
Italy’s Edoardo Molinari are Montgomerie’s three selections.  Paddy Power Plc, an Irish bookmaker, is already paying out
on a victory by Europe, which is a 4-6 favorite. That means a
successful bet of $6 will bring in $4 plus the original stake.  Paddy Power will pay out more than 100,000 pounds
($158,000) to people who placed a bet before midnight on Sept.
26, the bookmaker said today in a PR Newswire statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 