-- Yankees Beat Red Sox 4-3 to End Losing Streak, Seal Tie for AL Wild Card
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-09-27T05:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/yankees-beat-red-sox-4-3-to-end-losing-streak-seal-tie-for-al-wild-card.html
The New York Yankees beat the
Boston Red Sox 4-3 on a 10th-inning bases-loaded walk, ending a
four-game losing streak and clinching at least a tie for the
American League’s wild card playoff spot.  New York avoided a three-game series sweep last night at
Yankee Stadium as  Robinson Cano  singled in the tying run in the
bottom of the ninth inning and  Juan Miranda  drew a walk from
 Hideki Okajima  the next inning to force the winning run.  The Red Sox had taken a 3-2 lead in the top of the ninth
against  Mariano Rivera , pushing across two runs on two singles,
four stolen bases and a sacrifice fly.  The Yankees improved to 93-63 and now need a win or a
Boston loss to secure a Major League Baseball playoff berth.  The only way the Red Sox could force a tie for the AL’s
wild card is by winning their final seven regular-season games
while the Yankees lose their last six. The wild card berth goes
to the division runner-up with the best record.  The AL East rivals play a three-game series at Boston’s
Fenway Park from Oct. 1-3 to conclude the regular season. The
Yankees trail first-place Tampa Bay by a half-game in the AL
East after the Rays lost to Seattle 6-2 yesterday.  Mets Beat Phillies  The Philadelphia Phillies were guaranteed a playoff berth,
yet missed a chance to secure the National League East title
yesterday by losing to the New York Mets 7-3.  The Cincinnati Reds moved to within a win of the NL Central
title with a 12-2 rout of the San Diego Padres.  Joey Votto  hit a solo home run and drove in three runs for
the Reds (87-69), who lead the St. Louis Cardinals by 6 1/2
games in the NL Central. While Cincinnati is off today, the Reds
could clinch their first division title since 1995 if the
Cardinals (80-75) lose at home to the Pittsburgh Pirates.  The San Francisco Giants moved past the Padres atop the NL
West with a 4-2 win over the Colorado Rockies.  Matt Cain  took a
no-hitter into the eighth inning for the Giants, who improved to
88-68. The Padres are a half-game behind at 87-68.  San Diego holds a game-game lead over the Atlanta Braves in
the chase for the NL’s wild card playoff spot.  The Braves (87-69) were beaten by the Washington Nationals
4-2 yesterday, their fifth loss in six games.  The Rockies (83-72) are four games behind the Padres for
the NL’s wild card, while the Cardinals are seven back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  