-- Tyson Foods Seeks to Reverse Chinese Anti-Dumping Tariffs on U.S. Chicken
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2010-09-27T20:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/tyson-foods-seeks-to-reverse-chinese-anti-dumping-tariffs-on-u-s-chicken.html
Tyson Foods Inc.,  the largest U.S.
chicken processor, said it will try to appeal China’s decision
to impose anti-dumping tariffs on U.S. chicken shipments.  “We’re disappointed by the news and will continue to work
through the U.S. government and our trade associations to
reverse this decision,”  Gary Mickelson , a spokesman for
Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson, said in an e-mail today. “We
intend to do everything we can to continue selling chicken
profitably to China, as well as seek ways to expand our poultry
exports to alternative markets.”  China is implementing a duty starting today of as much as
105.4 percent on U.S. broiler chicken products. The rate will be
50.3 percent to 53.4 percent for U.S. companies that cooperated
with China’s investigation and 105.4 percent for those who
didn’t, the Ministry of Commerce said yesterday. Tyson Foods
imports will be assigned a 50.3 percent duty.  The decision was made after China determined “a causal
relationship” between U.S. companies dumping their products in
the Asian nation at below market prices and losses in the
Chinese poultry industry.  Mickelson declined to comment on whether the tariff would
curb Tyson’s shipments to China.  Tyson  fell 43 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $15.22 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
risen 24 percent this year.  Sanderson Farms  The tariff will reduce customers’ willingness to pay what
they did before the duty set in, though it likely won’t cut
shipments much, said  Mike Cockrell , chief financial officer for
Laurel, Mississippi-based  Sanderson Farms Inc.  The company’s
imports will be charged a duty of 51.8 percent.  While Sanderson Farms is looking for avenues to change the
Chinese government’s decision, “I don’t suspect it’s something
they will revisit soon,” Cockrell said.  A spokesman for  Pilgrim’s Pride Corp. ,  Gary Rhodes , wasn’t
available for comment.  Tyson is the largest U.S. chicken processor based on 2009
production, followed by JBS SA’s Pilgrim’s Pride unit, closely
held Perdue Inc. and Sanderson, according to WATT PoultryUSA, a
magazine covering the industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shruti Date Singh  in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  