-- Hyundai Motor's Chung Challenges Brother's Widow With Engineering Bid Plan
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-09-27T07:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/hyundai-motor-group-to-bid-for-hyundai-engineering-update1-.html
Hyundai Motor Group, parent of
South Korea’s two largest carmakers, will bid for a $2.5 billion
stake in  Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co. , setting up a
contest between the nation’s second-richest man and his
brother’s widow.  The group, which includes  Hyundai Motor Co.  and  Kia Motors
Corp. , will submit a letter of intent today, it said in a
regulatory filing in Seoul.  A successful bid would reunite Hyundai Motor with former
affiliate Hyundai Engineering, the nation’s largest builder.
Hyundai Engineering’s creditors, including Korea Exchange Bank,
will accept final bids for their combined 35 percent share in
the construction company by Nov. 12, sale arrangers  Bank of
America Corp.’s  Merrill Lynch & Co., Woori Investment &
Securities Co. and Korea Development Bank said last week.  “Buying into Hyundai Engineering is a part of Hyundai
Motor’s efforts to develop a new engine of growth,” said Yim
Eun Young, a Seoul-based analyst at Dongbu Securities Co. “It’s
not unreasonable for Hyundai Motor to consider acquiring a stake
if the price is reasonable.”  Hyundai Engineering’s  market capitalization is about 8.32
trillion won, pricing a 35 percent stake at about 2.91 trillion
won ($2.5 billion), based on today’s closing share price.  Family Ties  Hyundai Motor Group will compete with Hyundai Group, which
said today it may submit a preliminary bid for the stake before
Oct. 1. Hyundai Group affiliates Hyundai Merchant Marine Co.,
Hyundai Elevator Co. and Hyundai Securities Co. said in August
they planned to make an offer.  Hyundai Motor and its affiliates severed ties with the
former Hyundai Group in 2000 as part of a plan to split the
business into three operations, each of which was to be managed
by one of founder  Chung Ju Yung’s  three sons.  The carmaker is controlled by  Chung Mong Koo , the son of
the founder, while his brother’s widow,  Hyun Jeong Eun , controls
the current Hyundai Group. The old Hyundai Group’s shipbuilding
unit, which includes shipyard Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., was
also spun off.  Hyundai Motor is involved in the construction business
through its unlisted  Hyundai Amco Co.  unit and has no plans to
merge it with Hyundai Engineering, it said today. The group also
said it would keep the current workforce at Hyundai Engineering
after a takeover.  ‘Future Growth’  “We decided to bid for Hyundai Engineering in order to
strengthen the group’s business portfolio for future growth,”
Hyundai Motor Group said in a regulatory filing today.  While a stake in Hyundai Engineering could help protect the
automaker from a sudden slowdown in the car business, it risks
losing focus if it expands into a new industry, said Park Hwa
Jin, a Seoul-based analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co.  “It’s too early to judge how Hyundai Engineering could
contribute to Hyundai Motor Group while it still has many things
to accomplish in the car business, such as adding
environmentally friendly models,” Park said.  Hyundai Motor was unchanged at 161,500 won in Seoul trading
today, while Hyundai Engineering gained 4.9 percent.  Hyundai Merchant Marine, South Korea’s second-largest
shipping line, jumped to its highest in almost three years in
Seoul trading. The company rose by the daily limit on
speculation a battle for Hyundai Engineering may also lead to a
fight for control of the shipping line, said Kang Seong Jin, an
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc.  Largest Deal  Should Hyundai Motor Group acquire a stake in Hyundai
Engineering, the deal may be its largest since 1998 when it
acquired shares in Kia Motor Corp. for 1.2 trillion won in cash
and assumed debt of 2.7 trillion won, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The group plans to finance the acquisition internally, it
said today. Hyundai Motor and Kia had combined cash and
equivalents of 9.2 trillion won as of the end of June, according
to their financial statements.  Hyundai Engineering’s creditors plan to sell their stake
for as much as 20 percent more than its market value, an
official at one of the creditors said earlier this month. He
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.  Hyundai Motor Group hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and HMC
Investment & Securities Co. as financial advisers while Kim &
Chang was picked as a legal advisor to work on the bid, it said
today in the filing, confirming previous local media reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  