-- Zijin Mining Says Four Dead After Heavy Rain Causes Tin-Mine Dam Collapse
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-27T09:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-27/zijin-mining-says-four-dead-after-heavy-rain-causes-tin-mine-dam-collapse.html
Zijin Mining Group Co. said four
people died after a tailings dam collapsed, adding to safety
concerns at China’s biggest gold producer two months after
another accident poisoned almost 2,000 metric tons of fish.  The dam at Zijin Mining’s Xinyi Yinyan tin mine broke on
Sept. 21 after a landslide triggered by heavy rains from Typhoon
Fanapi, the Fujian-based company said in a  statement  yesterday.
The Guangdong provincial government is investigating, it said.  The incident comes after Zijin Mining pledged to improve
its management and invest more on safety measures after toxic
waste from a copper mine leaked into the Ting River in Fujian
province, leading to investigations by the securities regulator
and the police. A safety permit was obtained from the Guangdong
province for its tin tailing pool, the company said yesterday.  “We lack the official investigation results to know what
happened,”  Heng Kun , a Shanghai-based analyst at Essence
Securities Co., said by phone. “This time it may just be an
accident caused by the landslide. The July toxic spill was not
purely an accident.”  Zijin rose 2.8 percent to HK$5.98 at the 4 p.m. close in
Hong Kong.  The shares  gained 2.6 percent to close at 6.42 yuan
at 3 p.m. in Shanghai trading.  The break in the tin mine dam “resulted in damages to some
houses, farmland and water facilities downstream and caused
casualties,” Zijin said in the statement. Four deaths were
reported in Dadong village located downstream, according to the
local government, it said.  Company Loss  The latest accident would lead to a loss of 19 million yuan
($2.8 million), the company said. The tin mine was in trial
production, Zijin Mining said.  After the dam collapsed, 28 people were declared dead or
missing, said Tang Hao, a spokesman of the Guangdong provincial
government, according to a  transcript  on the website of Nanfang
Daily, a government-sponsored newspaper.  “Initial investigation shows Zijin’s tailing dam has
serious quality problem and related departments have started
investigative measures,” Tang said, according to the transcript.
“Zijin should be held responsible, but the extent of the
responsibility can only be determined when the result of the
probe is out.”  More than 100 metric tons of fish were found dead at farms
in China’s Huanghua river basin downstream from the dam, China
Daily said today.  County Information  Zijin reported four deaths after receiving information from
the local county-level government, and it’s unclear if the other
casualties cited by Tang directly related to the dam collapse,
Company Secretary  Zheng Yuqiang  said by phone. Zheng said he
wasn’t aware of the death of the fish.  Zijin was forced to shut its copper plant at the Zijinshan
mine in Fujian after its July spill, the worst accident in the
Chinese gold mining industry since July 2008, when runoff from a
Zhongjin Gold Corp. site in Dandong poisoned the water supply of
210,000.  Police detained some of Zijin’s managers, and the China
Securities Regulatory Commission was investigating a possible
breach of information disclosure rules related to the July spill.  -- Xiao Yu . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
 Xiao Yu  in Beijing at   yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs@bloomberg.net . 