-- Inflation outlook makes consumers' mood grim
-- By  Burton Frierson
-- Fri May 30, 2008 4:43pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/05/31/businesspro-usa-economy-sentiment-dc-idUSN3031617020080531

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. consumer confidence fell to a 
28-year low in May, a survey showed on Friday, as soaring 
prices for food and fuel soured sentiment and pushed long-term 
inflation expectations to the highest in more than a decade. 

  The rising expectations conflicted with a government report 
showing price growth moderated last month. Together, the 
reports heighten the challenge facing the Federal Reserve, 
which wants to avoid inflation perceptions becoming reality.  The Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers 
confidence index fell to 59.8 in May, the lowest since 58.7 in 
June 1980. Its gauge of five-year inflation expectations rose 
to 3.4 percent, the highest since April 1995.  "Consumers are running scared. These price data are bad for 
consumers and businesses," said David Wyss, chief economist at 
Standard & Poor's Ratings Services in New York.  "We are not going to see the economy getting better any 
time soon. We are still in the early stages of the recession."  The Reuters/University of Michigan index was below April's 
62.6 but slightly above Wall Street's median expectation of 
59.5 in a Reuters survey of economists.  Its general picture of weakness meshed with a regional 
barometer that showed business activity in the U.S. Midwest 
contracted in May for the fourth consecutive month, according 
to the National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago.  However, financial markets took some encouragement from the 
signs of moderating inflation in the government data. It was 
one factor behind the S&P 500 index ending slightly higher.  Bonds also edged higher, while the dollar slipped versus 
the euro and yen.  The Fed has staked its monetary policy on the notion that 
the weak economy will put the squeeze on inflation, with 
consumers forced to rein in extra spending to keep pace with 
rising prices of necessities such as food and energy.  This would allow the central bank to keep interest rates 
low to spur future economic growth without fueling unwanted 
inflation.  However, any signs that prices are getting out of hand 
would require higher interest rates, which would pummel stocks 
and bonds.  The data offered some signs that all was going according to 
the Fed's plan.  The core personal consumption expenditures price index, 
which excludes food and energy prices, showed underlying 
inflation slowed on a monthly basis in April to a modest 0.1 
percent, as expected, from 0.2 percent in March.  The core index, which is the Fed's favorite inflation 
gauge, showed annual price growth held steady last month at 2.1 
percent. That is just slightly above the Fed's perceived 
comfort zone, which tops out at 2 percent.  In addition, U.S. personal spending rose 0.2 percent in 
April, as forecast. But real spending adjusted for higher 
inflation was stagnant.  In contrast, the University of Michigan report painted a 
troubling picture. Its gauge of one-year inflation expectations 
surged to 5.2 percent -- the highest since February 1982, when 
the actual consumer inflation rate was above 7 percent.  In April, one-year inflation expectations were at 4.8 
percent.  The report heightens worries that the United States could 
be entering a period of stagflation like the late 1970s and 
early 1980s, characterized by a sluggish economy and 
accelerated price growth.  It also calls into question the view of some Fed officials 
that long-term inflation expectations have remained well 
anchored despite sky-high commodities prices.  In more signs of problems for a Fed eager to convince 
Americans that inflation is under control, the Michigan report 
showed a record-high 55 percent of consumers rate U.S. 
government economic policy as poor.  "High food and fuel prices have devastated the finances of 
consumers, with rising concerns expressed across all income 
groups," the Surveys of Consumers said.  (Additional reporting by  Richard Leong ; Editing by Dan 
Grebler)