-- Wheeling-Pittsburgh Expects Loss After Plant Outages
-- Kirsten Korosec
-- 2007-06-29T23:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-06-29/wheeling-pittsburgh-expects-loss-after-plant-outages-update1-.html

          
          
             Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corp., the U.S.
steelmaker that has agreed to merge with Esmark Inc., said it
will have a second-quarter loss because of weaker demand,
unplanned outages at steel plants and higher scrap metal costs.  
 The loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be about $25 million, including a $9.5 million
benefit from business-interruption insurance, Wheeling, West
Virginia-based Wheeling-Pittsburgh said today in a statement.  
 Wheeling-Pittsburgh had a first-quarter loss of $59.9
million, or $3.92 a share, as sales fell 9 percent and costs
rose. The price of U.S. steel sheet fell for a third month in
June as the U.S. economy slowed and demand from manufacturers
declined, Purchasing magazine said today.  
 ``While this quarter will represent an improvement from the
first quarter's results, it is still well below our
expectations,'' Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James P. Bouchard said in a statement.  
 Earnings also will be reduced as the steelmaker shuts down
an electric-arc furnace for maintenance for two weeks in July,
reducing output by as much as 40,000 tons.  
 The company is scheduled to release full second-quarter
earnings Aug. 8. Wheeling-Pittsburgh and Esmark, a privately held
steel distributor based in  Chicago , agreed to merge in March.  
 Dennis Halpin, director of investor relations with Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel, didn't immediately return a phone call seeking
comment after normal business hours.  
 Wheeling-Pitt shares rose 3 cents to $19.03 today in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading. The shares have declined 21
percent since the company agreed to merge with Esmark March 16.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kirsten Korosec in Chicago at 
 kkorosec@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        