-- Magic Brands, Fuddruckers Restaurant Owner, Seeks Bankruptcy Protection
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-04-21T23:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/magic-brands-fuddruckers-restaurant-owner-seeks-bankruptcy-protection.html

          
          
             Magic Brands LLC, the owner of
Fuddruckers and Koo Koo Roo restaurants, sought bankruptcy
protection with an agreement to sell most of its assets for $40
million to Tavistock Group.  
 The Austin, Texas-based company listed debt of as much as
$50 million and assets of as much as $10 million in Chapter 11
documents filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,
Delaware.  
 “The contemplated sale of substantially all” of the
company’s assets should allow it to exit bankruptcy quickly “as
a stronger and healthier enterprise, saving over 1,500 jobs in
the process and generating a meaningful recovery for
creditors,” lawyers for the company said in court papers.  
 Magic Brands operates about 85 Fuddruckers casual-dining
restaurants, which specialize in hamburgers, in 11 states,
according to a company statement. The company also runs 13 of
the Koo Koo Roo restaurants in California, which offer a variety
of chicken dishes. The company has 135 franchised restaurants in
33 states. None of the franchisee locations were part of the
bankruptcy filing.  
 The company said in the statement, it plans to close 24 of
the corporate-owned Fuddruckers locations by April 30.
Operations will remain normal at more than 200 restaurants.
Magic Brands received a commitment from Wells Fargo Capital
Finance Inc., its senior lender, for $14 million to help fund
operations while the company restructures, according to the
statement.  
 “This transaction with Tavistock Group allows Fuddruckers
to restructure our finances to provide the highest degree of
flexibility to fund our remodel and expansion program,” Magic
Brands Chief Executive Officer Peter Large said in the
statement. The company expects the sale, which would be subject
to offers from other potential buyers and court approval, to be
completed in 60 to 90 days.  
 The case is In re Magic Brands LLC, 10-11310, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        