-- Amazon Considering Japanese E-Books for Kindle
-- Takako Iwatani
-- 2010-04-21T23:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/amazon-com-holds-talks-with-kodansha-about-e-books-in-japanese-for-kindle.html

          
          
             Amazon.com Inc. held talks with
Kodansha Ltd. to provide electronic versions of Japanese-
language books for its Kindle digital reader, Yoshinobu Noma,
chief operating officer of Japan’s biggest publisher, said.  
 The online retailer, based in Seattle, has held preliminary
talks several times since the beginning of the year with closely
held Kodansha, Noma said in an interview. “They haven’t decided
yet if they are doing the same business in Japan, but they’re
considering it.”  
 Amazon.com doesn’t currently offer the Kindle in Japan, a
market where e-book sales are estimated by Nomura Holdings Inc.
to be more than four times those of the U.S. Buyers are
redirected to the Amazon’s U.S. site since no Japanese-language
titles are available. Japanese sales of paper books and
magazines fell 4.1 percent to a 21-year low in 2009, shrinking
27 percent since its 1996 peak, according to the Research
Institute for Publications.  
 “As of now, I don’t think Amazon will succeed in Japan,”
said Jun Hasebe, a Tokyo-based analyst at Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. “Japanese publishers are wary because they are afraid of
making less money from e-books,” after the precedent of
declining earnings for the country’s music labels once people
started buying digital content from Apple Inc.’s iTunes online
music store, he said.  
 Unlike the U.S., Japanese bookstores don’t have the
incentive to compete on price because they can return unsold
books to publishers, according to Takayoshi Koike, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. The system under which publishers
set retail prices and prevent discounting, hinders the ability
to offer electronic titles cheaper than paper books, Nomura said
in a Nov. 17 report.  
 E-Readers Scrapped  
 The Japanese e-book market -- worth 46.4 billion yen ($505
million) in the 12 months ended March 31, 2009, is dominated by
readership of comics on mobile phones, according to Nomura. Sony
Corp. and Panasonic Corp., Japan’s two biggest consumer
electronics makers, scrapped their e-reader business in the
country in 2007 and 2008 respectively.  
 “We are exchanging opinions about Kindles with many
publishing companies,” said Misao Konishi, a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman for Amazon.com. She declined to name companies.  
 The maker of the Kindle and Barnes & Noble Inc., which
offers the Nook e-reader, are giving publishers control over
pricing to stave off competition from Apple, three publishing
officials said this month. More than 7 million iPads may be sold
globally in the first year, according to researcher iSuppli Corp.  
 Apple, which launched its iPad tablet in the U.S. this
month, hasn’t approached Kodansha about selling e-books for its
touch-screen tablet computer, said Noma, 41, who is also
chairman of the Electronic Book Publishers’ Association of Japan,
a trade group started last month to coordinate publishers’
responses to the e-reader format.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Chana Schoenberger in Tokyo at 
 cschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        