-- Massey, Peabody Targeted as U.S. Probes Mines With History of Violations
-- Holly Rosenkrantz
-- 2010-04-21T22:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/massey-peabody-mines-targeted-in-safety-probe-after-west-virginia-blast.html

          
          
             Massey Energy Co., operator of a
mine where 29 workers died in an explosion this month, led a
list of 57 coal mines subjected to new U.S. inspections based on
previous safety violations, the Labor Department said.  
 The Mine Safety & Health Administration began inspecting
mines with “significant or repeat violations” during the
weekend, according to a statement today. The reviews focus on
methane accumulations, ventilation practices, rock dust
applications and inadequate examinations, the agency said.  
 “The purpose of these inspections is to provide assurance
that no imminent dangers, explosions, hazards or other serious
health or safety conditions and practices are present at these
mines,” MSHA Director Joe Main said in an e-mailed statement.  
 President Barack Obama last week ordered the crackdown on
safety violations nationwide after saying the April 5 explosion
at Massey’s Upper Big Branch Mine in West Virginia was triggered
by failures of management and government oversight.  
 Jeff Gillenwater, a Massey spokesman, didn’t return a
telephone call seeking comment. Last week, the company in a
statement said “some are rushing to judgment for political gain
or to avoid blame” after the blast. Massey won three awards
from the safety agency in 2009, the company said.  
 Massey controls nine mines on the government list, the most
of any operator. Peabody Energy Corp., which operates with
Consol Energy Corp. two mines that lead the U.S. in violations,
controls three mines on the list released today.  
 Peabody spokeswoman Beth Sutton, in an e-mailed statement,
said the safety agency sent one of the company’s listed mines a
letter in March commending it for progress in reducing
citations. Another Peabody mine listed has initiated changes
such as enclosing underground belt transfer points and has
boosted employee-safety and compliance training, she said.  
 The explosion at Massey’s Upper Big Branch has bought calls
to overhaul mine-safety laws.  
 The U.S. list includes 23 mines in West Virginia and 14 in
Kentucky. Depending on mine size, as many as 10 inspectors were
sent to each mine operation, the agency said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        