-- Brookfield Said to Want Flatt, Clark for General Growth Board of Directors
-- Daniel Taub
-- 2010-04-21T20:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/brookfield-said-to-want-flatt-clark-for-general-growth-board-of-directors.html

          
          
             Brookfield Asset Management Inc.
plans to name Chief Executive Officer J. Bruce Flatt and Ric
Clark, CEO of its U.S. affiliate, to the board of General Growth
Properties Inc. should its proposed investment in the mall owner
be approved, according to a person with knowledge of the plans.  
 Brookfield also plans to appoint Cyrus Madon, a senior
managing director with the Toronto-based company, to General
Growth’s board, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the plan isn’t yet public. Brookfield has the right to
name three directors if a bankruptcy court judge approves the
company’s investment in General Growth.  
 Brookfield and its partners, Fairholme Capital Management
LLC and Pershing Square Capital Management LP, have proposed a
$6.55 billion investment in General Growth to bring it out of
Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Simon Property Group Inc., the only U.S.
mall owner larger than General Growth, last week made a
competing investment offer following a spurned takeover bid.  
 “We haven’t made any determinations at this stage, but we
expect these three representatives would be board
representatives,” said Katherine Vyse, a Brookfield spokeswoman.  
 Simon CEO David Simon and other officials from the
Indianapolis-based company are scheduled to meet with General
Growth executives in Chicago tomorrow, said people familiar with
the planned meeting. Simon Property and General Growth
executives have been discussing the proposal for the past week,
one of the people said.  
 Les Morris, a spokesman for Simon Property, declined to
comment.  
 Dueling Offers  
 Simon has said its offer is better for General Growth
shareholders because it doesn’t include issuing warrants that
may dilute stock value. Brookfield’s Flatt said in an April 19
letter to General Growth that Simon’s plan raises antitrust
concerns that would hurt the Chicago-based mall owner after it
reorganizes. A hearing is scheduled for April 29.  
 Simon, which also has the right to appoint three directors
under its plan, hasn’t yet told General Growth who it would
name. General Growth executives have no objections to Flatt,
Clark and Madon joining the mall owner’s board, said the person
with knowledge of the talks. Flatt, 44, has been at Brookfield
since 1990 and in the CEO position since 2002.  
 Clark, 51, is CEO of Brookfield Properties Inc., owner of
Lower Manhattan’s World Financial Center, and has worked in
various positions for Brookfield Asset Management and its
predecessors since 1984. Madon, 44, has been with Brookfield
since 1998, and is responsible for the company’s restructuring
and lending operations.  
 Both the Brookfield and Simon proposals would keep General
Growth independent. Simon, whose $10 billion takeover offer for
General Growth was turned down as too low in February, said last
week it’s still interested in buying its rival outright.  
 General Growth filed the largest real estate bankruptcy in
U.S. history a year ago after amassing $27 billion in debt
making acquisitions. Its properties include New York’s South
Street Seaport, Boston’s Faneuil Hall and the Grand Canal
Shoppes and Fashion Show in Las Vegas.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Taub in Los Angeles at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        