-- California Pension Plan Would Vest 10 Years Later, to Cut $110 Billion
-- Michael B. Marois
-- 2010-04-21T21:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/california-pension-plan-would-vest-10-years-later-to-cut-110-billion.html

          
          
             New California public employees
would have to work 10 years longer to qualify for pensions under
a plan by the state Senate’s top Republican to shave $110
billion off retirement costs over the next three decades.  
 Minority Leader Dennis Hollingsworth’s bill would require
new employees to have 10 more years of service than current
workers to get benefits at age 65. Police, firefighters and
prison guards would have to work seven years longer before
vesting. The bill would base retirement pay on the average of
the highest three years of wages, instead of just the last year.  
 The proposal comes as California’s two public pension
funds, the largest in the U.S. at $345 billion, say they may ask
taxpayers for more money to support benefits already promised.
The funds lost more than $100 billion in the economic crisis
that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and a
drop in global stock markets.  
 “The single biggest threat to California’s fiscal health
is pension costs,” Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, a
Republican, said at a Sacramento press conference with
Hollingsworth. “In California, we had the Internet bubble, then
we had the housing bubble and I see in the future a pension
bubble.”  
 Unfunded Liability  
 Three funds -- the California Public Employees’ Retirement
System, or Calpers, the largest; the California State Teachers’
Retirement System, the second-biggest, and the University of
California Retirement System -- are as much as $500 billion
short of meeting future retiree benefits, according to an April
5 study by Stanford University’s Institute for Economic Policy.  
 The report recommended that the state decrease retiree
benefits, increase future contributions from plan members and
invest in less risky assets.  
 Taxpayers across the U.S. owe public school teacher
retirement accounts about $933 billion, nearly triple the amount
reported by the plans themselves, the Manhattan Institute for
Policy Research said in a study April 13.  
 Calstrs, as California’s $132.5 billion teacher fund is
known, had the largest unfunded liability at almost $100
billion, more than the $42.6 billion the system reported in
January, according to the Manhattan Institute. Calstrs disputed
the findings, calling the institute’s calculations “unrealistic
accounting tricks.”  
 Schwarzenegger tried to put a measure on the 2005 statewide
ballot to convert the public pension funds into 401(k)-type
plans. He withdrew the proposal after police and firefighters
said it would eliminate benefits for families of those killed on
duty. Schwarzenegger last year recommended creating a lower
level of benefits for new hires.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        