-- Capitol Investments' Chief Charged in Ponzi Scheme
-- David Scheer
-- 2010-04-21T21:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/capitol-investments-chief-shapiro-is-charged-in-880-million-ponzi-scheme.html

          
          
             Nevin Shapiro, chief executive
officer of Capitol Investments USA Inc., defrauded investors of
at least $80 million to fund his lavish lifestyle after raising
$880 million in a Ponzi scheme, U.S. prosecutors charged.  
 Shapiro, 41, raised money from at least 60 investors from
January 2005 to November 2009 to finance Capitol, a Miami Beach-
based wholesale grocery distribution business, authorities said
in a complaint unsealed today in federal court in Newark, New
Jersey. Capitol and Shapiro “had virtually no legitimate
business during this time,” the government said.  
 Shapiro used new investor money to pay existing investors
in the Ponzi scheme, while taking $35 million for himself,
according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation complaint. He
paid millions of dollars in debts from illegal sports bets,
bought $400,000 in floor seats to Miami Heat professional
basketball games and bought diamond-studded handcuffs that he
gave to a “prominent professional athlete,” the FBI said.  
 “Nevin Shapiro is charged with tricking investors with
false documents and false promises,” Paul Fishman, the U.S.
attorney for New Jersey, said in a statement. “He spent tens of
millions of their money on gambling debts, lavish gifts and a
luxury lifestyle built on a house of cards.”  
 Shapiro, who was also sued by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, surrendered to authorities after being charged with
securities fraud and money laundering. He faces up to 20 years
in prison on the fraud charge and 10 years on the money
laundering charge.  
 $10 Million Bail Package  
 Shapiro made an initial appearance in federal court in
Newark, where U.S. Magistrate Judge Madeline Cox Arleo ordered
him detained while court officials review a proposed $10 million
bail package. Defense lawyer Michael Tein left the courtroom
after the hearing without commenting.  
 The FBI said Shapiro bought a $5.3 million house in Miami
Beach, made monthly payments on a $1.5 million Riviera yacht and
leased a Mercedes-Benz. He also gave $150,000 to fund a Nevin
Shapiro Student-Athlete Lounge at a university, authorities
said. The University of Miami has such a lounge.  
 “This case is a perfect example of greed run amok,” said
Michael B. Ward, the top FBI agent in New Jersey, in a
statement. “Mr. Shapiro allegedly preyed upon unsuspecting
investors looking to secure a safe place to maximize their
investments. Instead, their futures may have been irrevocably
damaged.”  
 ‘Virtually No Income’  
 Shapiro promised investors returns of 10 percent to 26
percent in a business that he fraudulently claimed had tens of
millions of dollars in annual sales, according to the FBI.  
 In fact, “Shapiro and Capitol had virtually no income-
generating operations at all,” the FBI said.  
 The SEC, which estimated he raised about $900 million, said
he used $769 million of incoming funds to pay returns to earlier
investors. The regulator wants him to forfeit ill-gotten gains
and pay unspecified fines.  
 Investors forced Capitol Investments into involuntary
bankruptcy, the FBI said. The firm was a so-called grocery
diverter, which buys low-priced food in one region and sells it
for profit elsewhere, the SEC said.  
 The case is USA v. Shapiro, 10-cr-8082, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer in New York
at   dscheer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        