-- Carlos Slim Said to Buy New York Office Tower From Goldman Sachs, Moinian
-- David M. Levitt
-- 2010-04-21T21:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/carlos-slim-said-to-buy-new-york-office-tower-from-goldman-sachs-moinian.html

          
          
             Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim
agreed to pay $140 million for 417 Fifth Ave., a midtown
Manhattan office tower, from a partnership that includes Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., a person familiar with the transaction said.  
 Slim, ranked by Forbes magazine as the world’s richest man,
is paying $343 a square foot for the building, said the person,
who asked not to be named because the deal is private. The 11-
story tower is at the corner of East 38th Street.  
 The seller is a joint venture of Moinian Group, an
investment company headed by developer Joseph Moinian, and
Goldman Sachs’s Whitehall Street Real Estate Funds. The venture
paid $250 million for the building in 2007, city records show.  
 “Typically we see high-profile new foreign buyers come in
and make a trophy acquisition at a huge price,” Peter Slatin,
editorial director at Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-
based research firm that tracks property sales, said in an
interview. “He’s not doing that. He’s not hanging a big sign on
himself saying, ‘Price is no object.’”  
 The price is about half the $636 a square foot that SL
Green Realty Corp. agreed last week to pay for another Midtown
office building, 600 Lexington Ave. Sales are increasing in
Manhattan after the credit crisis sent transactions down 87
percent last year from the average during 2004 to 2008,
brokerage Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said in a report this week.  
 “The price really tells you the market is on a two-tier
track,” Slatin said. The building at 600 Lexington is a block
south of Citigroup Inc.’s headquarters at 399 Park Ave., where
office rents are higher than south of 42nd Street.  
 Rental Markets  
 Rents in the Park Avenue submarket, which includes 600
Lexington, were slightly above $60 a square foot at the end of
March, among the highest in the city, according to a report by
CB Richard Ellis Group Inc., a competitor of Cushman. In the
Grand Central district, which includes 417 Fifth, rents averaged
about $55 a foot.  
 The 417 Fifth building is 96 percent leased, according to
the Cushman report. About a quarter of its leases expire in the
next two years, the report said.  
 Tenants whose leases expire in that period include CIBC
World Markets Inc. and American Eagle Outfitters Inc.’s AEO
Management Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The New York Observer reported the sale earlier today.  
 Slim’s Banco Inbursa SA led a group of lenders that
foreclosed in February on an eight-acre luxury residential site
in Beverly Hills, California, that had been owned by Christian
Candy, a Monaco-based real estate entrepreneur.  
 Saks Stake  
 Slim, whose net worth was estimated by Forbes at $53.5
billion, has said he bought shares in upscale retailer Saks Inc.
because of the value of its real estate holdings. The New York-
based company’s properties include its Fifth Avenue flagship
store. Slim’s family, through investment vehicle Inmobiliaria
Carso SA, is the biggest Saks holder with a 16 percent stake,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Slim, 70, has dealt in Mexican real estate for decades,
following in the footsteps of his father, a Lebanese immigrant
who acquired property in downtown Mexico City after the Mexican
Revolution. His properties in Mexico, held through Grupo Carso
SAB, include shopping and office complexes, hospitals and
educational campuses.  
 Arturo Elias, a spokesman for Slim in Mexico City, had no
immediate comment. Dwayne Doherty, a spokesman for New York-
based Cushman, which represented Moinian in the transaction,
didn’t immediately return a phone call.  
 Moinian declined to comment through an outside spokesman,
Eric Gerard of Great Ink Communications in New York. Andrea
Raphael, a spokeswoman for New York-based Goldman Sachs, had no
immediate comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        