-- Climate-Change Bill Won't Have `Linked' Oil Fee, U.S. Senator Graham Says
-- Kim Chipman
-- 2010-04-21T21:24:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/climate-change-bill-won-t-have-linked-oil-fee-u-s-senator-graham-says.html

          
          
             U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham, a
South Carolina Republican, said new climate-change legislation
won’t include a so-called linked fee on oil-related emissions or
any measure that could be viewed as a tax on gasoline.  
 “There won’t be a gas tax,” Graham told reporters in
Washington today. “We are trying to find a way to get the
transportation sector covered in the most business friendly
manner and the linked-fee idea is not going to be in there.”  
 The fee’s removal from the draft legislation underscores
the difficulty in crafting a climate-change measure that can win
the support of a majority of senators. As recently as last
month, Graham said the bill would call for oil companies to pay
fixed emission fees tied to a proposed carbon-trading market,
also known as a cap-and-trade program.  
 Graham, along with Senators John Kerry, a Massachusetts
Democrat, and Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut independent, are
trying to craft compromise legislation to cap greenhouse gases
blamed for global warming. The trio has spent months seeking
support from both Democratic and Republican lawmakers,
environmentalists and businesses including in the oil industry.  
 “Now I know why no one has done this before,” he said,
referring to previous unsuccessful attempts by Congress to pass
climate-change legislation.  
 McCain’s Nuclear Component  
 Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican and co-author of
prior global warming bills, said today that he doesn’t believe
the new climate measure will include adequate measures to
promote nuclear power.  
 “From what I’ve heard there is no meaningful nuclear
component,” McCain said in an interview. “I’ve repeatedly said
I would not support any proposal that didn’t have a robust
nuclear power component.”  
 Graham said such concerns are unwarranted.  
 “No Republican who looks at this can be disappointed in
the nuclear provisions,” he said. “They are the most robust
I’ve seen and I think it’s the crown jewel of the entire
exercise.”  
 The legislation, which the senators may formally unveil on
April 26, also includes more money toward federal loan
guarantees for construction of new nuclear power plants, Graham
said. President Barack Obama has proposed in his fiscal 2011
budget to triple an Energy Department loan-guarantee program for
new reactors to $54.5 billion.  
 ‘This Is Tough’  
 While Lieberman told reporters yesterday that the climate
bill would be released April 26, Graham today said that he is
hopeful the measure will be ready.  
 “We don’t know yet, but I hope so,” Graham said. “This
is tough,” he said.  
 Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, said today that
made-in-America requirements had to be in the new compromise
measure. He didn’t elaborate.  
 Brown was among senators who earlier this month sent a
letter to Graham, Kerry and Lieberman stating that the climate-
change legislation must include provisions aimed at creating
U.S. jobs and boosting U.S. manufacturing competitiveness
worldwide.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        