-- Oil Falls After Supplies Climb at Delivery Hub (Correct)
-- Mark Shenk
-- 2010-04-21T23:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/crude-oil-trades-little-changed-in-new-york-before-u-s-inventory-report.html

          
          
             (Corrects gain in distillates in 17th paragraph.)  
 Crude oil dropped in New York after
a U.S. Energy Department report showed supplies surged at the
delivery point for the U.S. benchmark grade as imports climbed
to the highest level since September.  
 Inventories of crude at Cushing, Oklahoma, where New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate oil is stored, surged 5.8 percent
to 34.1 million barrels, the highest since the week ended Jan.
8. Supplies of crude oil rose 1.89 million barrels to 355.9
million, the Energy Department report showed. A 750,000-barrel
drop was forecast, according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 “There was a massive build at Cushing, which should be
very bearish,” said Stephen Schork, president of consultant
Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “Between mid-
February and mid-April supplies at Cushing have gone from a
year-on-year deficit of 13 percent to a 15 percent surplus.”  
 Crude oil for June delivery fell 17 cents, or 0.2 percent,
to settle at $83.68 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. Prices are up 5.4 percent this year and 80 percent
higher than a year earlier.  
 The price of oil on the Nymex for June delivery is $1.95
lower than for July, the widest divergence between front-month
contracts since Dec. 15. This structure, in which the future
month’s price is higher than for the one before it, is known as
contango and allows buyers to profit from storing oil.  
 “The contango continues to grow along with Cushing
supplies,” Schork said. “On Feb. 19 the front month traded at
a 25 cent discount compared with the second month, which had
widened to $1.43” on April 16.  
 Cushing Hub  
 Cushing was traditionally used to connect Gulf Coast
producers with refiners in the Midwest. The decline in
production along the Gulf has resulted in the use of the hub for
the storage of additional barrels from Alberta, Canada,
according to the Energy Department.  
 “The expanding contango is deepening the incentive to hold
supply,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions
LLC in Houston. “You are going to see big oil companies start
to book floating storage again.”  
 The number of tankers tied up in storage reached a record
168 in November and fell to 104 by February, according to a
March 10 report from Simpson, Spence & Young, the world’s
second-largest shipbroker.  
 Brent crude oil for June settlement rose 90 cents, or 1.1
percent, to end the session at $85.70 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent, usually cheaper than
contracts on the Nymex, is trading at a $2.02-a-barrel premium.  
 “The Cushing builds are causing a real disconnect between
Brent and oil on the Nymex,” said Rick Mueller, director of oil
markets at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts. “Nymex is responding to local inventory
conditions in Oklahoma, rather than the global picture. That’s a
weakness that’s occurred repeatedly in recent years.”  
 Rising Imports  
 Imports of crude oil rose 8.3 percent to 9.61 million
barrels a day in the week ended April 16, the report showed.
Imports of gasoline and other fuels surged 32 percent to 2.88
million barrels a day, the highest since the week ended Feb. 5.  
 “It’s surprising that we saw a big jump in imports because
this is a shoulder season,” Mueller said. “Heating oil demand
has dropped and we have another month until gasoline consumption
picks up due to the driving season.”  
 U.S. gasoline consumption peaks during the so-called summer
driving season, which lasts from the Memorial Day weekend in
late May to Labor Day in early September.  
 Total U.S. fuel demand, averaged over the past four weeks,
fell 1.1 percent to 18.9 million barrels, the weekly decline
since the week ended Jan. 8, the report showed.  
 Fuel Supplies  
 Stockpiles of gasoline and distillate fuel, a category that
includes diesel and heating, also increased. Inventories of the
motor fuel 3.59 million barrels to 224.9 million last week.
Supplies were forecast to climb 500,000 barrels, according to
the median of 19 analyst estimates in the Bloomberg survey.  
 Inventories of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, rose 2.1 million barrels to 148.9
million last week, the reports showed. A 1 million barrel gain
was forecast.  
 Prices advanced earlier after the International Monetary
Fund raised its forecast for global growth this year. The
Washington-based IMF today said the economy will expand 4.2
percent in 2010, the fastest pace since 2007, compared with a
January projection of 3.9 percent.  
 Oil also dropped as the dollar strengthened against the
euro as the cost to insure against Greece defaulting on its debt
surged to a record. A stronger U.S. currency curbs the appeal of
commodities as alternative investment.  
 Dollar Gains  
 The greenback increased 0.4 percent to $1.3377 per euro
from $1.3435 yesterday. It was the fifth-straight gain of the
dollar against the common currency.  
 Oil volume on the Nymex was 784,904 contracts as of 3:06
p.m. in electronic trading in New York. Volume totaled 660,147
contracts yesterday, 0.3 percent higher than the average of the
past three months. Open interest was 1.36 million contracts. The
exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open interest
and full volume data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        