-- Senate Panel Approves Bill to Reform Derivatives Trading
-- Phil Mattingly
-- 2010-04-21T22:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/derivatives-bill-clears-senate-panel-that-would-force-swaps-desk-overhaul.html

          
          
             The Senate Agriculture Committee
approved derivatives legislation that would require U.S. lenders
such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. to spin
off their swaps trading desks.  
 The panel voted 13-8 to back a bill drafted by Committee
Chairman Blanche Lincoln, an Arkansas Democrat. Senator Charles
Grassley, an Iowa Republican, joined Democrats in approving the
measure. The provision to make lenders separate swaps trading
from commercial bank operations has been among the most
contentious issues as lawmakers weigh new rules for Wall Street.  
 “For a handful of the largest banks that would be a major
problem -- of late the rates derivatives business in particular
has been nothing short of an astonishing money maker,” said Raj
Date, a former Deutsche Bank AG executive who is now with
Cambridge Winter Inc. “I would not be surprised if the equity
markets acted in a negative way.”  
 Grassley’s vote provided a rare bipartisan sign in the
Senate debate over financial-industry regulations. Grassley said
his vote today doesn’t mean he supports the broader legislation
sponsored by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd.
Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat, is negotiating a bipartisan deal
on the larger bill with Alabama Senator Richard Shelby, the
banking panel’s top Republican. Lincoln’s derivatives measure
would be merged into the broader bill, she told reporters today.  
 ‘Number of Flaws’  
 “The derivatives piece is significant, but that larger
bill has a number of flaws that need to be resolved before I’d
support it,” Grassley said in a statement after the vote.  
 Lawmakers are weighing derivatives oversight after bets
made by American International Group Inc. brought the New York-
based insurer to the brink of failure in 2008, forcing the U.S.
government to pledge more than $182 billion in assistance.  
 Lincoln’s bill would bar companies that deal in swaps, a
form of derivative, from bank privileges such as accessing the
Federal Reserve’s discount lending window and emergency
liquidity functions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
deposit guarantee.  
 “This is no time for small fixes or tweaking around the
edges,” she said in a statement before the vote. “This is the
time for bold change and big decisions about the future of our
country and the global financial system.”  
 Fundamentally Restructure  
 Lawmakers from both parties have expressed concern about
the spinoff proposal, which could force banks to fundamentally
restructure their business, according to Brian Gardner, an
analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. in Arlington, Virginia.  
 “People have been talking about it in terms of forcing the
banks out of the business, I think that’s inaccurate,” Gardner
said. “It’s more forcing the banks to restructure the business
but it’s still, at a time when the derivative business is going
to have tighter margins, this is just another expense on top of
that, so definitely not a positive for banks.”  
 Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler
also has refused to support it, saying “the Federal Reserve and
the Treasury has to think through these issues.”  
 “The Senate Agriculture Committee voted out a bipartisan
bill that will bring derivatives trading out of the dark,
provide strong oversight of market participants, and combat
fraud, abuse and manipulation,” Treasury Secretary Timothy F.
Geithner said in a statement.  
 The spinoff provision of Lincoln’s bill would cut banks’
ability to lend and could drive derivatives markets overseas,
said Kenneth E. Bentsen of the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association, a Washington trade group.  
 Antithetical  
 “At a time when borrowers are already finding it difficult
to obtain credit, limiting financial institutions’ ability to
lend seems antithetical to the goals of comprehensive reform
legislation,” Bentsen, Sifma’s executive vice president for
public policy and advocacy, wrote in an April 20 letter to
Lincoln and Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the Agriculture
Committee’s ranking Republican.  
 The bill would require mandatory clearing and exchange
trading for standardized derivatives. Parties in over-the-
counter trades would be required to put up increased capital.  
 Chambliss said Lincoln’s bill would put undue burden on
institutions such as AgriBank FCB and CoBank ACB.  
 “All the sudden they are going to be treated like Goldman
Sachs or JPMorgan,” Chambliss said.  
 Exemptions  
 Gensler, who has advocated requiring all derivative trades
be cleared and traded on exchanges, said any additional
exemptions would only open doors to more.  
 “Fundamentally, the choice we’re dealing with is, every
exemption from clearing makes it a little more likely that a
taxpayer will have to stand behind a bailout,” Gensler said.  
 Lincoln’s proposal goes further than others introduced in
the House and Senate by imposing a fiduciary duty on banks
entering into interest-rate swaps with cities, counties and
other municipal issuers -- a nod to the billions of dollars in
interest bills and fees faced by local governments after
derivatives meant to hedge against risks began to unravel.  
 “You’ll notice that Republicans and moderate Democrats are
not defending Wall Street,” said Gardner, who was staff
director for former Louisiana congressman Richard Baker. “The
White House really is driving the message and so the message is
leading to tougher bills as we go along.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Senator Charles Grassley  
                       
                         
                           Steve Pope/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Senator Charles Grassley, a Republican from Iowa, speaks to a reporter prior to a workshop on competition in agricultural markets held by the Justice Department and the Department of Agriculture in Ankeny, Iowa, on March 12, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senator Charles Grassley, a Republican from Iowa, speaks to a reporter prior to a workshop on competition in agricultural markets held by the Justice Department and the Department of Agriculture in Ankeny, Iowa, on March 12, 2010. Photographer: Steve Pope/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
