-- Leonardo Examines Abdomen, Raphael Brainstorms Over Saint
-- Martin Gayford
-- 2010-04-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/leonardo-examines-abdomen-raphael-brainstorms-over-saint-martin-gayford.html

          
          
             Here’s a business-like way of
looking at Italian Renaissance drawings: When Raphael or
Leonardo picked up a piece of paper, chances are they were
engaged in research, quality control or product development.  
 It’s possible to watch them, and many other great artists,
doing just those things at the  British Museum ’s fabulous new
exhibition, “Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance
Drawings,” a collaboration between the BM and the Uffizi in
Florence.  
 The formula is simple: 50 of the choicest works from each
collection, just about the finest array of 15th- and early
16th-century Italian drawings in the world. It takes you inside
the Renaissance workshop, and even into the heads of painters
and sculptors who lived five centuries ago.  
 When Paolo Uccello (probably, the attribution isn’t
certain) drew a perspective exercise, “Study of a Chalice”
(c.1450-70), he broke down the object into more than 2,000
points of intersection -- a dizzying exploration of the
geometry of vision in a single cup.  
 This was an investigation as close to science as what we
now call art. Leonardo was up to something similar, in a
different context, when he scrutinized the “Abdomen and Left
Leg of a Nude Man” (c. 1506-10), jotting down a note to
himself “the fat is in the hollows, the lean in the relief.”  
 Artistic Rivalry  
 That kind of inquiry -- a revolutionary interest in how
things really look -- was only one application of drawing.
Lines on paper were also a way of generating fresh ideas or, in
21st-century terms, brainstorming. Italian Renaissance artists
were operating in a competitive market. There was a premium on
originality, and a sheet of paper could be a virtual laboratory
for visual innovation.  
 The paradigm-shifting genius of Leonardo is visible on one
extraordinary sheet where he has overlaid so many ways of
arranging his figures -- “The Virgin and Child with St. Anne
and the Child Baptist” (c. 1505-08) -- that the center of the
image has disappeared into a blur like a Rorschach blot or an
over-exposed photograph.  
 It was the newly abundant supply of paper itself in the
later 15th century, an unexpected result of the post-Gutenberg
printing boom, that made such creative brainstorming possible.
Previously, vellum (prepared animal skin) was the main medium
for drawing. And that was too expensive for playing around.  
 The more artists drew, the more uses they found for
drawing, such as refining details, which is what Antonio
Pollaiuolo did in a study of St. John the Baptist. In the
center is the saint, and all around, close-ups of crucially
expressive parts of him: his hands, his feet.  
 Design Process  
 Domenico Ghirlandaio, who ran a large team of assistants,
including at one point the young Michelangelo, used drawings to
maintain consistent quality. Assistants might do the actual
paintings, though based on blueprints by the master, such as
his “Study of Drapery” (1491).  
 Most of the drawings in the show, like that one, were
utilitarian byproducts of the design process. If they were kept
at all, it was because they were useful items to file in the
studio image bank. Only later did collectors start to see them
as works of art in their own right.  
 To a modern eye, the lines on paper may look more
appealing than the finished product. In the exhibition,
Raphael’s cartoon, or full-scale preparation, for “St.
George” (c. 1504-05) is side by side with the final oil
painting. While we don’t have to choose, if I could I’d take
the drawing.  
 “Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings”
opens today and runs through July 25 at the British Museum,
London. Information:  http://www.britishmuseum.org . The
exhibition will travel to the Uffizi, Florence, (Feb. 1-April
30, 2011). Information:  http://www.polomuseale.firenze .  
 ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Virgin and Child with St Anne and the Child Baptist  
                       
                         
                           the Trustees of the British Museum via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A drawing by Leonardo da Vinci, ''The Virgin and Child with St Anne and the Child Baptist,'' believed to be dated 1505-8. This drawing is on show in ''Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings'' at the British Museum, in an exhibition sponsored by BP, from April 22 through July 25. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A drawing by Leonardo da Vinci, ''The Virgin and Child with St Anne and the Child Baptist,'' believed to be dated 1505-8. This drawing is on show in ''Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings'' at the British Museum, in an exhibition sponsored by BP, from April 22 through July 25. Source: the Trustees of the British Museum via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Paolo Uccello drawing, ``Study of a Chalice''  
                       
                         
                           Uffizi/ British Museum via Bloomberg. 
                         
                         A drawing by Paolo Uccello, ``Study of a Chalice,'' (c. 1450-70) is on show in ``Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings,'' sponsored by BP, at the British Museum from April 22 through July 25. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A drawing by Paolo Uccello, ``Study of a Chalice,'' (c. 1450-70) is on show in ``Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings,'' sponsored by BP, at the British Museum from April 22 through July 25. Source: Uffizi/ British Museum via Bloomberg.  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A nude man with a horse  
                       
                         
                           the Trustees of the British Museum via Bloomberg 
                         
                         ''A nude man with a horse,'' (c. 1447-9) a drawing by Benozzo di Lese, is on show in  ''Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings'' at the British Museum from April 22 through July 25. Copyright the Trustees of the British Museum, via Bloomberg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     ''A nude man with a horse,'' (c. 1447-9) a drawing by Benozzo di Lese, is on show in  ''Fra Angelico to Leonardo: Italian Renaissance Drawings'' at the British Museum from April 22 through July 25. Copyright the Trustees of the British Museum, via Bloomberg. Source: the Trustees of the British Museum via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
