-- Merck Should Refund Cost of Vioxx Prescriptions in Louisiana, Lawyer Says
-- Leslie Snadowsky
-- 2010-04-21T22:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/merck-should-refund-cost-of-vioxx-prescriptions-in-louisiana-lawyer-says.html

          
          
             Merck & Co. misled Louisiana
officials about the heart-attack risks posed by its withdrawn
Vioxx painkiller and should be ordered to refund more than $11
million paid for the drug, a lawyer for the state argued.  
 Managers of Louisiana’s state-sponsored health programs
would have halted reimbursements for Vioxx prescriptions if they
had known the drug posed a greater heart-attack risk than
competing medicines, Stephen B. Murray Jr., one of the state’s
lawyers, said in closing arguments of a trial over the refund
claims. Merck had an obligation to fully disclose Vioxx’s health
risks, he added.  
 “They can’t just put their heads in the sand and pretend
there’s nothing wrong with the drug,” Murray told a federal
judge in New Orleans today. It’s the first of more than a dozen
refund cases filed by states over Vioxx to go to trial. “They
can’t just wait for the bodies to stack up.”  
 Merck pulled Vioxx off the market in 2004 after a study
showed the drug doubled the risk of heart attacks and strokes.
The company won 11 of 16 Vioxx lawsuits at trial before setting
up a $4.85 billion settlement fund in 2007 to resolve thousands
of injury claims over the drug. State officials allege Merck
executives downplayed and distorted Vioxx’s health risks in
medical literature, advertisements and communications with
doctors.  
 ‘Failure of Proof’  
 Merck said in a March 30 regulatory filing 13 state
attorneys general have sued the company over Vioxx-prescription
refunds. The drugmaker also faces refund suits filed by five
counties and New York City over the medicine, according to the
filing. U.S. District Judge Eldon Fallon is hearing the
Louisiana case without a jury.  
 Lawyers for Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck, the
second-largest U.S. drugmaker, told Fallon today state officials
couldn’t show Louisiana law gave them the power to cut off
reimbursements for any drugs.  
 “The state’s failure of proof in this case has been
profound,” Tarek Ismail, one of the company’s lawyers, argued
today. State officials advanced “a farfetched theory” that
Louisiana law was broad enough to allow denials of coverage on
approved drugs, he added.  
 The former head of Louisiana’s Department of Health and
Hospitals testified during the two-week trial that state
officials had never cut off coverage for drug and never intended
to set up a restricted list for medicines.  
 Still, David Hood, who stepped down as the health agency’s
chief in 2004, also told Fallon state law did provide the
authority to cut off coverage for a drug to protect citizens.  
 Attorney Fees Sought  
 “It defies all logic to say that the state Medicaid
program can’t protect its citizens from a defective product,”
Murray argued today.  
 In addition to $11.1 million in damages, Louisiana
officials seek to recover their expenses and attorney fees in
the rebate case. The state’s lawyers say the requested recovery
could exceed $20 million.  
 Fallon, who is overseeing all federal-court litigation over
Vioxx, didn’t say when he would hand down his ruling.  
 “We look forward to the court reviewing the facts and
believe the evidence showed that Merck acted appropriately by
labeling Vioxx under the direction of the FDA and according to
the evolving science available at the time it was on the
market,” Travis Sales, another of Merck’s lawyers, said in an
e-mailed statement today.  
 Merck fell $1.32, or 3.7 percent, to $34.74 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The drugmaker’s shares have
fallen 5 percent this year.  
 The Louisiana case is State of Louisiana v. Merck, Sharp &
Dohme Corp., 05-3700, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Snadowsky in New Orleans at  bugsynola@aol.com .  
          
          


  


        