-- UnitedHealth Doubles Co-Pay for Merck's Vytorin, Zetia
-- Shannon Pettypiece
-- 2010-04-21T22:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/merck-s-vytorin-zetia-face-doubled-customer-co-pay-from-unitedhealth.html

          
          
             UnitedHealth Group Inc. is doubling
the amount it will charge most of its customers for Merck &
Co.’s Vytorin and Zetia cholesterol pills, a move the insurer
hopes will deter patients from using the medicines.  
 UnitedHealth, the biggest U.S. medical insurer by sales, on
July 1 will start charging patients $50 to $60 for a
prescription of Vytorin and Zetia, up from the current co-
payment of about $25 to $30, said Tim Heady, head of
UnitedHealth’s pharmaceutical solutions division.  
 The change is another blow for Vytorin and Zetia, which
combines Vytorin and the generic drug simvastatin. Sales of
Vytorin and Zetia fell 14 percent worldwide to $4.3 billion in
2009 from $5 billion in 2007, when a study showed Zetia worked
no better than simvastatin alone. UnitedHealth is increasing co-
pays for Vytorin to encourage patients to switch to simvastatin,
whose price has declined significantly, Heady said.  
 “It is all about relative cost,” he said. “It no longer
makes much sense” to keep a lower co-pay for Vytorin.  
 The co-pay will apply to 14 million customers who get their
prescription drug coverage through Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth.  
 “We remain pleased with our managed care access for
Vytorin and Zetia,” Lee Davies, a spokesman for Whitehouse
Station, New Jersey-based Merck, said in a statement.  
 Vytorin didn’t work significantly better than simvastatin
at keeping patients out of the hospital for heart attacks or
stroke, according to an analysis of 30,000 patients by
UnitedHealth released in November. Simvastatin costs 93 cents a
pill for a 40 milligram dose compared with $4 for Vytorin,
according to the online pharmacy Drugstore.com.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        