-- House Ethics Panel Opens Probe on Handling of Massa Sex-Harrassment Claims
-- Jonathan D. Salant
-- 2010-04-21T21:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/ethics-panel-opens-probe-into-handling-of-harassment-claims-against-massa.html

          
          
             The U.S. House ethics committee is
investigating whether House officials covered up harassment
allegations against former Democratic Representative Eric Massa
of New York, who resigned in March.  
 Separately, the Washington Post reported that federal
officials began a corruption investigation into events involving
Massa. Citing documents it obtained, the Post said prosecutors
appear to be focusing on payments from campaign funds last month
totaling more than $70,000 to Massa’s chief of staff and to
renew the lease of a car. The payments were made as Massa
announced he would retire.  
 The ethics panel said it is probing whether House members
or employees “may have failed to properly report or fully
disclose” harassment allegations against Massa.  
 “The allegations surrounding former Representative Massa
are serious and warrant a full and complete investigation,” the
committee chairwoman, California Democrat Zoe Lofgren, and the
panel’s ranking Republican, Jo Bonner of Alabama, said in a
statement.  
 Massa, 50, cited health concerns when he announced last
month he wouldn’t seek re-election. Two days later, he said he
would resign, citing an ethics committee investigation.  
 His resignation ended the committee’s inquiry into his
actions because it lost authority over him. House Republican
leader John Boehner of Ohio, though, pushed for an investigation
into how House Democratic leaders responded to the harassment
allegations as they surfaced. That is what the new ethics
inquiry will focus on.  
 “Members of Congress, especially leaders, have clear
responsibilities when it comes to protecting congressional
employees and interns from harassment and abuse,” Boehner said
in a statement. “I hope this investigation will establish, in a
timely fashion, whether the Democratic leadership lived up to
those standards.”  
 Pelosi’s Awareness  
 Concerns about Massa’s behavior were first brought to the
attention of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s staff in October,
according to a Democratic aide who spoke last month on condition
of anonymity.  
 Massa’s chief of staff, Joe Racalto, told a Pelosi aide he
was concerned about a local newspaper’s article about Massa
living in a group home with five members of his staff, the
Democratic aide said. Racalto told Massa to move out, the aide
said.  
 Pelosi, a California Democrat, said March 4 she had first
learned about the Massa allegations from her staff the previous
day. She also said at that time her staff learned about the
allegations from aides to House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer in
February.  
 Her staff didn’t pass the information on to her because it
was a “one-two-three-person-removed rumor,” she said. “I have
a job to do and not be a receiver of rumors.”  
 Hoyer, a Maryland Democrat, said March 9 his staff was
first made aware of potential problems by a Massa aide. He said
he told his staff that it “sounded to me as if it was an
appropriate matter that should be reviewed by the ethics
committee,” and instructed his aide to tell Massa’s staff that
Hoyer would bring the allegations to the panel if the New York
lawmaker’s staff didn’t.  
 ‘Groped’  
 In a March 9 interview with Fox News’s Glenn Beck, Massa
acknowledged he “groped” a male staffer, though he denied the
contact was sexual.  
 Massa reported to the Federal Election Commission on April
15 that he still had $394,568 in his campaign bank account. His
former chief of staff, Racalto, received a $40,000 campaign
management fee, according to the filings. Massa also spent
$31,896 to lease a car on March 3, the same day he announced his
retirement.  
 His district is one of seven in New York won by Democrats
that are being targeted by Republicans this fall. Even before he
resigned, Massa was one of the most vulnerable incumbents.  
 The ethics committee rebuked Boehner and other Republican
leaders in 2006 for failing to protect teenage congressional
pages after learning about sexually suggestive e-mails sent by
then-Representative Mark Foley of Florida, a Republican. The
panel said no rules were broken, even as it found “a
disconcerting unwillingness to take responsibility for resolving
issues regarding Representative Foley’s conduct.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        