-- Fiat to Separate Truck, Tractor Units, Double Carmaking Revenue by 2014
-- Marco Bertacche
-- 2010-04-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/fiat-plans-to-separate-carmaking-business-aims-to-double-auto-unit-sales.html

          
          
             Fiat SpA, Italy’s biggest carmaker,
will separate its agricultural and truckmaking units from
carmaking by the end of the year and aims to double revenue at
the auto division by 2014.  
 The spinoff will separate CNH Global NV, Iveco and the
industrial and marine operations under Fiat Powertrain into a
new company called Fiat Industrial SpA, leaving Fiat Auto and
car components businesses, including engines, in Fiat, the
Turin-based company said yesterday. Fiat Chief Executive Officer
Sergio Marchionne will run the car business.  
 The separation would give Marchionne, who is also CEO of
Chrysler Group LLC, an entity to facilitate future alliances.
Revenue at Fiat Auto will probably rise to 51 billion euros ($68
billion) in 2014 from 26.3 billion euros last year, the company
forecast.  
 “If I have any talent at all, it’s in the revival of the
car business,” Marchionne told investors in Turin yesterday.
“There is no longer any reason to keep together two sectors
that operate from such diverse industrial and financial logic.
The existing structure no longer serves any useful purpose.”  
 Fiat rose 18 cents, or 1.7 percent, at 10.60 euros in Milan
yesterday, giving the manufacturer a market value of 12.5
billion euros.  
 Elkann  
 Vice Chairman John Elkann, an heir to the Agnelli family,
will succeed Luca Cordero di Montezemolo as chairman. Elkann,
the grandson of former Chairman Giovanni Agnelli, is currently
Fiat vice chairman and head of the family’s holding company.  
 Elkann will also become chairman of the automotive
operations, while Marchionne will be chairman of Fiat
Industrial. The individual units will retain their management.
Marchionne said the separation will make it easier to seek
future opportunities through alliances and partnerships.  
 Marchionne said yesterday that he doesn’t expect alliances
for Amsterdam-based CNH, the maker of Case and New Holland
agricultural equipment. The shares fell 2.3 percent to $31.34
yesterday in New York.  
 “CNH is falling because it’s the best company among the
industrial units that will be spun off,” said Karim Bertoni,
who helps manage $18.5 billion at Geneva-based Banque Syz & Co.
“In the future they should be considered all together with
Iveco, and Powertrain Unit, that are less interesting.”  
 Sales Forecasts  
 Fiat forecast group sales will total 93 billion euros by
2014. The new Fiat, without industrial units, will probably have
revenue of 64 billion euros by then. Fiat Industrial’s sales
will reach 29 billion euros.  
 Trading profit at Fiat group may reach 7.2 billion euros by
2014, compared with as much as 1.2 billion euros forecast for
this year.  
 Fiat sees no significant obstacles to the separation, which
will not trigger early bond repayments, according to the
company’s presentation.  
 Cost savings and sales growth stemming from Fiat’s
partnership with Chrysler, the third-largest U.S. carmaker, will
reach 1.5 billion euros by 2014, with combined car sales
totaling 6 million vehicles, the Italian company said. Fiat
plans to merge Chrysler with its Lancia brand while positioning
the U.S. division’s Jeep sport-utility vehicle unit as a global
brand.  
 “Marchionne is doing the spinoff to pull together Fiat and
Chrysler,” Pierluigi Bellini, an automotive analyst at Global
Insight in Milan, said in a phone interview.  
 Chrysler Stake  
 Marchionne reiterated that he expects Fiat’s stake in
Chrysler will rise to 35 percent within 24 months from 20
percent. There is no plan for a share swap between the two
companies, he said.  
 Fiat yesterday reported a first-quarter net loss of 25
million euros from a year-earlier loss of 410 million euros.
Analysts had projected net income of 51.6 million euros. Fiat
returned to a profit on the basis of earnings before interest,
taxes and one-time gains or costs. Sales climbed 15 percent to
12.9 billion euros.  
 Marchionne said that Fiat has a “long list” of potential
partners, adding that the list doesn’t include any German
company.  
 “Fiat has to expand in Asia to be a competitive player in
the next decade,” Carlo Alberto Carnevale-Maffe, a professor of
business strategy at Milan’s Bocconi University,  said in an
interview. “It should look for more alliances or mergers,
attracting fresh capital. The spinoff is a step to focus on this
direction.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Gay Forden in Turin, Italy, via 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        