-- GM Repays $5.8 Billion Loans to U.S., Canada, Whitacre Says
-- Katie Merx
-- 2010-04-21T23:33:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/gm-repays-5-8-billion-loans-to-u-s-canada-whitacre-says.html

          
          
             General Motors Co. Chief Executive
Officer Ed Whitacre said the early repayment of $5.8 billion in
government loans and his investment in U.S. car plants show
“our plan is working.”  
 GM also said today it would spend $257 million to support
production of the Chevrolet Malibu sedan, one of the models
central to the Detroit-based company’s revival strategy, at
plants in Fairfax, Kansas, and in Hamtramck, Michigan.  
 Whitacre used an appearance at the Kansas facility to
confirm the final repayments on loans due by 2015 to the U.S.
and Canada, which GM wouldn’t acknowledge when details were
reported on April 19. The U.S. still owns 61 percent of GM as
part of the financing of the automaker’s 2009 bankruptcy.  
 “This gives them a multi-positive PR hit,” said Joseph
Phillippi, president of consultant AutoTrends Inc. in Short
Hills, New Jersey. “They’re not only paying back the money that
was seeded into the company in the bankruptcy-exit process, but
they’re putting more money into the plant that is either saving
or creating jobs.”  
 Whitacre said he envisions selling shares to the public
this year, the final step in GM’s return to independence after
restructuring in Chapter 11 in 2009 with about $50 billion in
government aid from the U.S. and Canada.  
 “The stock could be worth a lot,” Whitacre told reporters
later in Washington. “The taxpayer could get all their money,
plus, back.”  
 Washington Meeting  
 His comments after a meeting with lawmakers including House
Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat, and Michigan’s
congressional delegation echoed the themes he focused on in
Kansas.  
 “Our plan is working,” Whitacre said at the Fairfax
plant. “GM has paid, in full and with interest, the loans made
by the U.S. Treasury and Canada in July. This is five years
ahead of schedule.”  
 Whitacre also said sales of the Chevrolet Volt electric car
in October will start in October, a month earlier than promised.  
 GM is counting on the Volt to leapfrog competitors for the
mantle of environmental-technology leadership in the auto
industry, while the Malibu is intended to be one of the
company’s highest-volume vehicles.  
 Production Capacity  
 Production capacity needs to grow because GM is using 100
percent of its resources, North America President Mark Reuss
told reporters on a conference call today. He said the automaker
is averaging a 70-day supply of its vehicles. Analysts typically
cite 60 days as ideal.  
 GM’s 8.375 percent bonds due in July 2033 fell 0.25 cent to
37.5 cents on the dollar at 5:40 p.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The debt was issued by predecessor General
Motors Corp. and will convert into equity in the new GM.  
 The U.S. share of GM’s final loan payment was $4.7 billion,
and the early return of the money shows the automaker is on “a
strong path to viability,” Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner
said today in a statement.  
 “We are encouraged that GM has repaid its debt well ahead
of schedule,” Geithner said. The repayment is ahead of the
“accelerated” timetable announced last year, according to the
statement.  
 Whitacre set a goal in December of repaying the government
borrowing by June. At the time, GM owed the U.S. $6.7 billion
and Canada $1.14 billion.  
 Paying back the borrowing may help lure buyers who avoided
the automaker’s models because of the U.S. government ownership
stake, said Jim Hall, principal of consultant 2953 Analytics in
Birmingham, Michigan.  
 “That’s why they do it,” Hall said. “Paying back the
loans will be enough for them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Merx in Fairfax, Kansas, at 
 kmerx@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ed Whitacre, chairman and CEO of General Motors  
                       
                         
                           Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Ed Whitacre, chairman and chief executive officer of General Motors Co., speaks at a news conference at company headquarters in Detroit, Jan. 25, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Ed Whitacre, chairman and chief executive officer of General Motors Co., speaks at a news conference at company headquarters in Detroit, Jan. 25, 2010. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Ed Whitacre, chairman and chief executive officer of General Motors Co., speaks at a news conference at company headquarters in Detroit, Michigan, Jan. 25, 2010. Photographer: Jeff Kowalsky/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
