-- Goldman's Legal Defense Amounts to `Buyer Beware'
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-04-21T21:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/goldman-sachs-caveat-emptor-defense-mirrors-ubs-merrill-subprime-lawsuits.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has
signaled it will fight a U.S. lawsuit over subprime mortgage
instruments the same way Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
unit and UBS AG have challenged similar claims -- by invoking
the concept of caveat emptor: Latin for buyer beware.  
 The strategy may work. By insisting that purchasers of
collateralized debt obligations knew what they were getting
into, Goldman Sachs is following a well-traveled path. Both
Merrill and UBS won dismissal of similar claims that they
misrepresented the risks of such assets by saying the buyers
were sophisticated enough to know better.  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission accused Goldman
Sachs of creating and selling the CDOs without disclosing that
hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the underlying securities
and bet against the instrument. Goldman Sachs denied any
wrongdoing, saying that it provided “extensive disclosure” to
customers about the risks.  
 Goldman Sachs, whose mantra is clients’ interests always
come first, has said “these are sophisticated investors who
knew what they were buying,” said David Irwin, a former federal
prosecutor in private practice in Towson, Maryland. The bank is
arguing that the average buyer of this product isn’t some
“credit union that didn’t know what it was doing,” he said.  
 Faltering Housing Market  
 In early 2007, as the U.S. housing market began to falter,
Goldman Sachs created and sold the CDO vehicle, known as Abacus,
linking it to bundles of subprime mortgages whose value would
rise or fall depending on whether homeowners paid them off.  
 Billionaire John Paulson’s firm earned $1 billion on the
CDOs and wasn’t accused of wrongdoing by the SEC.  
 The SEC alleged in its April 16 complaint that, had Goldman
Sachs customers known Paulson helped choose the securities that
formed the basis of the CDO, and that Paulson was betting
against them, they might not have bought any. The regulator’s
case in Manhattan federal court may hinge on that issue, said
lawyer Mark Zauderer of New York’s Flemming Zulack Williamson
Zauderer LLC, who isn’t involved in the case.  
 Even if a jury finds the customer would have bought the
Goldman Sachs product with knowledge of Paulson’s role, the
panel may still find in favor of the SEC if it decides those
facts were intentionally hidden, Zauderer said.  
 ‘Sophisticated Investors’  
 “Goldman certainly can and will argue that the
sophisticated investors were perfectly capable of evaluating the
quality of securities, regardless of what Paulson’s intentions
were in betting against them,” said Zauderer, who helped defend
former New York Stock Exchange Chairman Richard Grasso. Grasso
successfully challenged a 2004 compensation lawsuit by then New
York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer.  
 “Whether they did sufficient due diligence or reasonably
relied upon what was presented to them” will be an issue,
Zauderer said of the CDO’s buyers.  
 Goldman Sachs lawyer Richard Klapper of New York-based
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP didn’t return a call seeking comment.
Goldman Sachs said yesterday that the U.S. case hinges on the
actions of an employee it placed on paid leave this week.  
 Fabrice Tourre, the 31-year-old Goldman Sachs executive
director who was accused of misleading investors about the
mortgage-linked investment in 2007, will also be de-registered
from the Financial Services Authority, a spokeswoman at the firm
in London said yesterday.  
 ‘Factual Dispute’  
 “It’s all going to be a factual dispute about what he
remembers and what the other folks remember on the other side,”
Greg Palm, Goldman Sachs’s co-general counsel, said in a call
with reporters yesterday, without naming Tourre. “If we had
evidence that someone here was trying to mislead someone, that’s
not something we’d condone at all and we’d be the first one to
take action.”  
 The professional savvy of investors who buy such financial
vehicles was cited by a New York state judge as grounds for
dismissal earlier this month of fraud claims brought against two
Merrill units.  
 In that 2009 suit, Armonk, New York-based bond insurer MBIA
Inc. and its LaCrosse Financial Products LLC unit claimed that
Merrill had a “deliberate strategy to offload” billions of
dollars of “deteriorating” subprime mortgages from July 2006
to March 2007, as homeowner defaults began to soar. Merrill
rejected the allegations and denied any wrongdoing.  
 MBIA Lawsuit  
 New York State Supreme Court Justice Bernard Fried in
Manhattan dismissed five of six claims brought by MBIA over
protection sold against mortgage-debt defaults. Fried, who
allowed a breach-of-contract claim to continue, said the credit-
default swaps were the product of “intensive negotiations among
the parties, whose sophistication and business acumen and
experience cannot be overstated.”  
 “MBIA and LaCrosse specifically stated that they were able
to evaluate the validity of the CDOs, and were specifically
warned that the transaction was appropriate only for
sophisticated investors capable of analyzing the risks,
including the risk related to the type of collateral involved in
the transaction,” the judge wrote in his opinion. MBIA has said
it will appeal.  
 UBS used that argument to fight a lawsuit by Hamburg-based
HSH Nordbank AG seeking to recover at least $275 million in
losses on a portfolio linked to the U.S. subprime-mortgage
market.  
 Claims of Trickery  
 HSH alleged that the Zurich-based bank was able to trick it
into making the investment because in 2001, when they were
negotiating the deal, HSH was “a regional German bank with
little familiarity with international structured finance,”
according to its complaint.  
 UBS lawyer Barry Sher called that claim “the babes in the
woods defense” during a May 2008 hearing in the case. Sher said
HSH had done its own credit-linked note transaction a year
before entering the contract with UBS, which denied the
allegations.  
 New York State Supreme Court Justice Richard Lowe in
Manhattan dismissed most of HSH’s claims, including fraud, in
2008.  
 HSH amended its complaint, saying new documents obtained
during discovery showed UBS had an “undisclosed economic
motivation” and intended the transaction to be “other than a
vehicle for HSH’s gain.”  
 “UBS claimed that the transaction was ‘tailored to meet’
HSH’s needs when it was actually structured to enrich UBS at
HSH’s expense,” according to a ruling by Lowe last October. He
said HSH could proceed with its restated fraud claim as well as
claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant
of good faith.  
 ‘Naïve Investor’  
 Lowe said he still wasn’t convinced that HSH could sue for
negligent misrepresentation and dismissed that claim.  
 “HSH’s reworded claim that it was but a naïve investor in
the hands of the more experienced UBS in a world of complex
investment rings as unconvincing now as it was in the original
complaint,” Lowe said.  
 Both sides are appealing Lowe’s decision.  
 “There are substantial parallels between SEC v. Goldman
Sachs and HSH’s case against UBS,” Michael McNicholas, legal
counsel at HSH, said today in an e-mailed statement. UBS and
Goldman Sachs exploited flaws in the ratings system to make
high-risk investments appear to be investment grade, he said.  
 “Both cases are based on strong evidence that the
arranging bank concealed material facts regarding the adverse
selection of the portfolio and misrepresented the alignment of
investor’s interests,” McNicholas said. “However, unlike the
Goldman case where Paulson’s adverse economic interest was
concealed, in our case UBS fraudulently concealed its own
adverse economic interests to profit at HSH’s expense.”  
 HSH’s Specifications  
 Doug Morris, a UBS spokesman, said today in an e-mail that
the transaction was structured according to HSH’s
specifications.  
 “HSH was a professional and knowledgeable German bank,”
Morris said. “We executed all of our contractual obligations.”  
 In a third case, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s attempt to fend off
billionaire Len Blavatnik’s suit blaming his losses on the
bank’s risky mortgage bets led to a mixed court ruling.  
 Blavatnik, founder of Access Industries Group, accused the
second-largest U.S. bank of stuffing its portfolio with too much
subprime-mortgage risk.  
 In December, New York State Supreme Court Justice Melvin L.
Schweitzer, also in Manhattan, threw out Blavatnik’s claims of
negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. The judge refused to
dismiss accusations against the New York-based bank of breach of
contract and negligent misrepresentation.  
 ‘Passive Investor  
 “Plaintiff was a passive investor that looked to the
expertise and advice of defendants in structuring an investment
strategy,” Schweitzer wrote. “Since plaintiff properly has
alleged its reliance on these misrepresentations, there is a
strong presumption that its reliance was reasonable given the
investment management relationship between the parties.”  
 JPMorgan had argued Blavatnik couldn’t state a claim merely
by pointing to losses.  
 “Whether defendants acted with ‘negligence or willful
misconduct’ cannot be assessed by asking what investment
decisions a reasonable investment adviser would have made under
normal market conditions,” the bank’s lawyers said in court
papers. “The relevant question is what a reasonable investment
adviser would have done in the face of this historic financial
crisis.”  
 Mary Sedarat, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  
 Goldman Arguments  
 If Goldman Sachs made a significant misrepresentation to
customers looking to buy the instrument at issue in the SEC
lawsuit, it can’t argue that experienced investors should have
known what they were getting into, Zauderer said.  
 Goldman Sachs said in a statement responding to the SEC
lawsuit that it provided full disclosure about the offering and
that its portfolio was marketed solely to sophisticated
financial institutions.  
 The investment bank also argued that the SEC complaint
failed to mention that it lost more than $90 million from the
transaction, as compared with the $15 million in fees it got.  
 Goldman Sachs said that IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG and
ACA Management LLC, two investors in the Abacus product that
were identified in the SEC complaint, were aware of the risk
associated with the securities and were “among the most
sophisticated mortgage investors in the world.”  
 Merrill has mounted a similar, sophisticated investor-
defense to a suit brought by Netherlands-based Cooperatieve
Centrale Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank BA, known as Rabobank.  
 Rabobank’s Loss  
 As in the Goldman Sachs case, Utrecht-based Rabobank
claimed Merrill omitted important information in advising on a
CDO tied to subprime mortgages. In that case, also presided over
by Judge Fried, the alleged omission was Merrill’s relationship
with another client betting against the investment, which
resulted in a loss of $45 million.  
 Merrill countered in court papers that Rabobank was aware
of the risks, which were disclosed in the transaction documents.
The bank should have been responsible for conducting its own due
diligence, and shouldn’t have relied on Merrill, the bank said
in a court filing last year seeking to dismiss the case.  
 Attorneys for Rabobank have seized on the SEC’s allegations
against Goldman to support their own case.  
 In a filing in state court in Manhattan on the same day the
SEC sued Goldman, the Dutch bank drew a parallel between the
complaints. Rabobank urged the judge to grant it access to
Merrill’s records of how the collateral manager for a synthetic
CDO went about selecting investments.  
 ‘Fraudulent Conduct’  
 Rabobank said the SEC complaint justifies its lawsuit
because Merrill is accused of “precisely the same type of
fraudulent conduct in the structuring and marketing” of CDOs.  
 Bill Halldin, a Merrill spokesman, rejected Rabobank’s
attempt to link its complaint to the Goldman Sachs case, saying
on April 16 that the matters are unrelated.  
 Rick Werder, a New York attorney for Blavatnik with Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart Oliver & Hedges LLP, said the SEC lawsuit
against Goldman Sachs supports a broader government inquiry into
the CDO market.  
 “The latest allegations provide further indication that,
in the area of mortgage-backed securities, some of our nation’s
financial institutions consistently placed their own self-
interest ahead of the interests of their customers,” he said.  
 The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Goldman
Sachs, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net  and;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s new headquarters building, center, stands at 200 West Street in New York, on April 19, 2010. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  custom spreadsheet of Goldman CDOs 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
