-- Goldman Banker Tourre Agrees to Testify in Senate
-- Lorraine Woellert
-- 2010-04-21T23:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/goldman-banker-tourre-agrees-to-testify-in-senate.html

          
          
             Fabrice Tourre, the Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. banker at the center of fraud allegations against the
firm, has agreed to testify and may defend his actions at a
Senate hearing next week, said two people briefed on the plan.  
 Tourre, who was accused by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission of misleading investors in a collateralized debt
obligation, will appear before the Senate Permanent Subcommittee
on Investigations on April 27 along with Goldman Sachs Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the plan isn’t public. Tourre, 31, will
tell the panel he did nothing wrong, one of the people said.  
 Goldman Sachs, the most profitable firm in Wall Street
history, was sued by the SEC on April 16. Regulators claimed the
company and Tourre misled investors by failing to disclose that
Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by billionaire John Paulson,
helped select loans for the CDO and then bet against them.  
 Tourre, the only individual named in the SEC case, was
“principally responsible” for creating and marketing the CDO
known as Abacus 2007-AC1, the agency said in its complaint.  
 “The whole building is about to collapse anytime now,”
Tourre wrote to a friend in a January 2007 e-mail, according to
the complaint. “Only potential survivor, the fabulous Fab...
standing in the middle of all these complex, highly leveraged,
exotic trades he created without necessarily understanding all
of the implications of those monstruosities!!!”  
 ‘All Necessary Steps’  
 Goldman Sachs, which is contesting the SEC’s claims, has
said it “will take all necessary steps to defend the firm.”
Tourre and Blankfein have agreed to speak publicly because they
want to show Goldman Sachs has nothing to hide, the people said.  
 Tourre “believes that he indicated” to investors that
Paulson was interested in taking a “short” position on the
deal, meaning he was betting against it, Greg Palm, Goldman
Sachs’s co-general counsel, said this week.  
 Pamela Chepiga, Tourre’s lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP,
didn’t return phone calls and e-mails seeking comment. Goldman
Sachs spokesman Lucas van Praag didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  
 Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who leads the
investigation subcommittee, is holding hearings to explore the
causes of the worst economic crisis since World War II.
Witnesses from credit-rating companies Moody’s Corp. and
Standard & Poor’s will testify on April 23.  
 Tourre will be interviewed by the committee’s staff before
appearing at the hearing, one of the people said. David Viniar,
Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer, and Craig Broderick,
the firm’s top risk manager, are also scheduled to testify.  
 The panel’s chief counsel, Elise Bean, declined to comment.  
 Risky Strategy  
 The strategy of speaking publicly, especially before a
panel of politicians, carries risks, said Benjamin Brafman, a
criminal defense lawyer in New York.  
 “The atmosphere in the financial sector today is very bad,
the cosmetics are horrific,” Brafman said in an interview.
“Some of the people on this committee are going to be gunning
for anyone who shows up.”  
 Brafman said the complexities of the case could trip up any
witness who isn’t fully prepared.  
 “You may be truthful with what you have to say but you may
not be completely accurate. You are then stuck with a transcript
that can always be used against you in future proceedings,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The LinkedIn profile Web page of Fabrice Tourre, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. vice president, is displayed on a computer screen in New York on April 16, 2010. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 20 (Bloomberg) -- Byron Georgiou, a commissioner on the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, talks with Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan about the fraud allegations lodged against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 
     Georgiou also discusses the responsibility of top executives to understand their institutions' risk-taking practices. Goldman said Fabrice Tourre, a vice president named in the SEC case, has been put on paid leave indefinitely. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 21 (Bloomberg) -- Bethany McLean, a contributing editor at Vanity Fair, talks with Bloomberg’s Margaret Brennan about the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's fraud lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 21 (Bloomberg) -- Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman David Ruder talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about the Securities and Exchange Commission's fraud lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
     Ruder also discusses the outlook for next week's testimony by Goldman Sachs banker Fabrice Tourre before a Senate panel. Tourre was accused by regulators of misleading investors in a collateralized debt obligation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 21 (Bloomberg) -- Gregory Zuckerman, a reporter for the Wall Street Journal and author of ``The Greatest Trade Ever,'' talks with Bloomberg's Julie Hyman about Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker Fabrice Tourre's agreement to testify before the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations on April 27.
     The Securities and Exchange Commission has accused Tourre of misleading investors in a collateralized debt obligation. Tourre will testify along with Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, according to two people briefed on the plan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Frenkel, a former SEC lawyer now in private practice at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker in Potomac, Maryland, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
     Fabrice Tourre, the Goldman Sachs banker at the center of fraud allegations against the firm, has agreed to testify and may defend his actions at a Senate hearing next week, said two people briefed on the plan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     People walk outside Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s new headquarters building at 200 West Street in New York, on April 19, 2010. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lloyd Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc., listens during a panel discussion at the Clinton Global Initiative's annual meeting in New York, on Sept. 23, 2009. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
