-- Greek Math Adds Up to Delusion, Disaster, Default: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2010-04-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/greek-math-adds-up-to-delusion-disaster-default-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             Call out the lifeboats and admit
that you are sunk without a $60 billion rescue package. Or, try
to fund yourself in the capital markets, and risk coming home
empty-handed. Who would want to be  Greece ?  
 Many of the nation’s problems are all too obvious. Here,
though, are some of the issues lurking just beneath the surface,
waiting to trash returns for investors who might be tempted to
buy Greek debt at record yield premiums to German bunds.  
 Respecting Your Elders  
 As soon as that first euro arrives in Greece’s coffers from
either the European Commission or the  International Monetary
Fund , those existing Greek bonds you own probably slip back one
place in the line of who gets paid first by the nation. The more
they lend, the longer you might have to wait to be reimbursed.  
 And the market is pushing Greece over the cliff into the
safety net. At a bill auction this week, investors demanded 3.65
percent to lend to Greece for just three months, double what
they accepted at the previous sale in January. The cost of 10-
year money rose to 8 percent, up from 5.75 percent at the start
of the year. So three-year loans from the EC at 5 percent start
to look irresistible.  
 In technical terms, once Greece signs up for help your debt
gets subordinated to the rescue package; the EC and the IMF are
likely to demand what’s called seniority for their loans, and
there’s not a darned thing you can do about it. Do you really
want two gangs of bureaucrats standing between you and your
money when push comes to shove?  
 Suicide Is Painless, It Brings on Many Changes  
 Greece’s potential rescuers say they might hold its feet
even closer to the economic fire in return for aid.  Europe  might
“link the payout of the tranches to the implementation of
economic-policy goals,” German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said this week. “There is a need now to be more
specific in relation to fiscal-adjustment measures for 2011 and
2012,” EC spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  said.  
 Maybe Greece is tired of standing in the naughty corner
being jeered and pointed at by its euro classmates. It might
restructure its debt instead, which is a polite way of saying it
could tell bondholders they’re not going to be paid as much as
they expected, nor will those repayments arrive on time.  
 Default doesn’t carry much of a stigma, if it ever did.  Russia , which reneged on its obligations in 1998, pitched five-
and 10-year dollar bonds at its lowest-ever premium to
Treasuries this week. Even  Argentina  is holding a $20 billion
debt swap that will slash its borrowing costs, nine years after
defaulting on $95 billion of loans.  
 A few years in the market wilderness might do Greece some
good, instead of being held to ransom by international bond
vigilantes every time it needs to refinance maturing debt. Do
haircuts and rescheduling figure in that horizon analysis you’re
running on whether to buy Greek bonds?  
 Thin End of a $115 Billion Wedge  
 How much will Greece end up needing once it concedes defeat
and triggers the aid package? Bundesbank President  Axel Weber 
told German lawmakers this week it will probably be more than
the 30 billion euros ($40 billion) pledged by the European
Union, according to two people present at his briefing. (Does
anyone notice a hint of German disapproval running through the
remarks made by officials from Europe’s biggest economy?)  
 Greece owes bondholders about 25 billion euros this year,
according to Bloomberg data. That rises to an additional 31
billion euros next year and 32 billion euros in 2012. If it
takes the three-year money on offer under the rescue package as
currently designed, it just pushes its refinancing risk out
until 2013.  
 Suppose the markets remain closed to Greece this year, next
year and the year after. Do you think those Greek bonds you own
will (a) surge in value as their rarity increases (b) drop like
stones as your fixed-income peers realize how hard it will be to
unhook Greece from the life-support machine of bailout funding?  
 We’re on a Roadshow to Nowhere  
 Still comfy owning those Greek bonds, even though the cost
of buying protection against nonpayment in the credit-default
swap market leaped to its most expensive ever this week? How
about if we spice things up a little by stirring some foreign-
currency worries into the mix?  
 Greece plans a roadshow to court investors in the U.S.,
with the hope of finding enough demand to help fund its deficit
by selling dollar bonds. Anyone who bought Greece’s euro-
denominated 10-year bonds when they went on sale in March,
though, now owns something worth about 88 percent of face value.
U.S. fund managers might prove less than enthusiastic about the
combination of Hellenic credit worries and the risk of a euro
collapse making it even harder for the nation to pay its debts.  
 What do you think happens to the value of those euro-
denominated bonds you own if  Petros Christodoulou , director-
general of Greece’s Public Debt Management Agency, flies back
from  New York  with an empty briefcase?  
   Mark Gilbert , author of “Complicit: How Greed and
Collusion Made the Credit Crisis Unstoppable,” is the London
bureau chief and a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        