-- Guocoland to Double China Property Bet on State Curbs (Correct)
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-04-23T08:33:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/guocoland-to-double-4-8-billion-china-investment-on-confidence-in-market.html

          
          
             (Corrects figure in second paragraph of story first
published on April 22 to 3.3 billion yuan. Clarifies quote to
mention the increase in land prices in China in the past year.)  
 Guocoland Ltd., the developer
controlled by Malaysian billionaire Quek Leng Chan, may double
investment in China property to almost $1 billion on confidence
government efforts to avert a bubble will work.  
 Guocoland, whose projects include shopping malls,
apartments, offices and hotels, said a year ago it planned to
invest 3.3 billion yuan ($483 million) in new commercial
properties in China.  
 “We should very easily double that in view of the
substantial increase in land prices during the past year,”
Violet Lee, head of Guocoland’s China operations, said in an
interview in Beijing. “We have much more confidence now because
we can sense the central government is taking things very
seriously.”  
 The Chinese government in March ordered state-owned
companies to pull out of property development if it’s not part
of their main business, creating an opportunity for foreign
developers. The nation last week increased the size of down
payments, raised interest rates on second homes and barred banks
from funding purchases of third homes after property prices
surged by a record 11.7 percent in March from a year ago.  
 “The recent policies focus on curbing demand, but China’s
urbanization and the rising demand for housing are still there
over the long term,” said Dai Fang, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Zheshang Securities Co. “With the expectation of a yuan
appreciation, it also makes sense for foreign companies to build
up investment in China.”  
 ‘Big Opportunity’  
 Guocoland shares fell 1.3 percent to S$2.29 as of 9:48 a.m.
in Singapore trading. The benchmark Straits Times Index was down
0.5 percent.  
 Guocoland’s new investments will focus on integrated
projects in major cities like Beijing and Shanghai as well as
provincial centers, Lee said. The company is also considering
expanding its land holdings.  
 The Singapore-based developer, part of Malaysia’s Hong
Leong Group, aims to increase its investments over about two
years, Lee said. She also sees a “big, big opportunity” in the
Chinese government’s demand that 78 state-owned companies exit
the property market because real estate isn’t their main
business.  
 The company plans to take advantage of the move through
“mutually beneficially working relationships,” she said.  
 China this week ordered developers not to take deposits for
sales of uncompleted apartments without proper approval and
barred them from charging “abnormally high” prices. Real
estate prices in Haikou, capital of the southern island of
Hainan, jumped 53.9 percent last month.  
 ‘Crazy Prices’  
 The average cost of land in 105 Chinese cities rose 8.1
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier to 2,700 yuan
per square meter, the Ministry of Land and Resources said
yesterday.  
 “We’re looking at crazy prices,” Lee said. “A lot of
land prices are beyond what the market can accept. The flour is
more expensive than the bread.”  
 The government’s measures to cool the housing market won’t
have any “major impact” on Guocoland as they mainly target
residential projects rather than the company’s main operations,
Lee said.  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        