-- Facebook, Zynga Impose Fees on Private Sales of Shares
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2010-10-11T17:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/linkedin-zynga-may-use-stock-sale-limits-to-curb-pre-ipo-value-inflation.html
Facebook Inc. and Zynga Game Network
Inc. are charging fees of at least $2,500 for each sale of
company shares, a move legal experts say discourages employees
from putting equity in the hands of large numbers of outside
owners before an initial public offering.  Zynga, the maker of the most popular games played on
social-networking sites, began imposing a fee of $4,500 for each
private share transaction in August, and raised it to $6,000 per
sale in September, according to company e-mails obtained by
Bloomberg News. Social networking leader Facebook has begun
imposing a $2,500 fee, according to  Greg Brogger , CEO of
 SharesPost Inc. , which handles private-company stock sales.  Internet startups that have yet to sell shares publicly are
trying to rein in the frequent online trading of employee stock,
which can carry high administrative costs and can make it
difficult for management to control ownership. Having more than
500  shareholders  entails financial disclosures that some
companies prefer to keep private until they pursue an IPO.  “The fee is being imposed for the administrative burden of
providing the information that the seller by law is required to
provide, and making sure the company is not screwing up its 500
shareholder count,” said  Ted Hollifield , a  partner  at Dorsey &
Whitney LLP law firm in Palo Alto, California. He said he is not
working on behalf of Facebook or Zynga.  Zynga’s fees were discussed in a series of e-mail exchanges
that included Zynga Deputy General Counsel Karyn Smith, an
attorney for Zynga at  Ropes & Gray LLP  in San Francisco and a
former employee who was attempting to sell shares.  Transfer Fees  Beginning Sept. 1 “the transfer agent fee is $6000 per
transfer,” Smith wrote in one e-mail. “This is our policy for
all transfers.”  In a different e-mail, Ropes & Gray referred to a "$4,500
transfer fee that Zynga is requiring on all trades and re-
purchases.’’  A Zynga representative said “Zynga charges a fee for the
transfer of stock to cover some of the costs associated with
arranging and overseeing sales of company stock.”  A Ropes & Gray representative didn’t immediately have a
comment. Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Palo Alto-based
Facebook, declined to comment.  Facebook stock trades at $5.84 to $6.82 on SharesPost,
according to secondary market researcher NeXt Up. Zynga shares
trade at $16.48 to $16.83. This month, Facebook said it held a
stock split, granting five shares for each one held.  Dissuading Trades  Zynga Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  said in April
that his company was considering limits on transactions, citing
concern over leaks of inside information. Facebook has barred
employees from selling shares until the company declares an
open-trading period, a person familiar with the matter said in
April. Executives at professional networking site LinkedIn Corp.
were also said to be considering tighter controls at the time.  Some closely held companies attempt to keep the number of
their shareholders low, since those with more than 500 are
required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to
disclose certain financial information.  SharesPost, based in Santa Monica, California, and New York
based SecondMarket Holdings Inc. help owners of stock in closely
held firms look online for buyers and negotiate the value of
shares in private transactions.  Last month, LinkedIn stopped letting new buyers of its
stock trade on SharesPost, according to Brogger.  Krista Canfield, a spokeswoman for Mountain View,
California-based LinkedIn, declined to comment on SharesPost,
though she said LinkedIn doesn’t charge a transaction fee for
the sale of its shares.  Covering Costs  The average share sale on SecondMarket is for $2 million
worth of shares, according to the company. For a transaction of
that size, the seller would pay SecondMarket a fee of three
percent and five percent, or $60,000 to $100,000. Legal opinions
for such sales usually cost around $2,500, said SecondMarket
spokesman Mark Murphy.  “The $6,000 fee sounds exorbitant if you’re looking at
purely administrative costs,” said Hollifield. “If you’re
looking at it in the context of potential compliance with
reporting obligations, then the $6,000 fee is actually
reasonable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Douglas MacMillan  in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 