-- Jets Sign Pass Rusher Jason Taylor, Formerly of AFC Rival Miami Dolphins
-- Erik Matuszewski
-- 2010-04-21T22:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/jets-sign-pass-rusher-jason-taylor-formerly-of-afc-rival-miami-dolphins.html

          
          
             The New York Jets signed Jason
Taylor, a six-time Pro Bowl pass rusher who last year said
the team’s fans took the “cl” out of class.  
 Taylor, who will be 36 when the National Football
League season begins, joined the Jets after the Miami
Dolphins declined to offer the free agent a new deal.
Taylor has spent 12 of his 13 NFL seasons with the
Dolphins, one of the Jets’ rivals in the American Football
Conference’s East Division.  
 “As far as the things that have been said in the
past, we had a good time with it and went at it a lot of
times,” Taylor said today during a news conference. “Me
being up here now may or may not add more fuel to the fire,
but as far as the Jets fans are concerned, I’m one of you
guys now.”  
 Jets coach Rex Ryan compared Taylor’s arrival to Major
League Baseball players Roger Clemens and Johnny Damon
helping the New York Yankees win World Series titles after
playing for the rival Boston Red Sox.  
 “If Jason can have the same impact on the Jets as
those players had on the Yankees and we win a championship,
I think we’ll all be happy,” Ryan said during a news
conference.  
 Taylor, who plays defensive end and outside
linebacker, has 127 1/2 career sacks, including seven last
year for the Dolphins. While the Jets had the NFL’s top-
ranked defense last year, they tied for 18th out of 32
teams with 32 sacks. Calvin Pace led the team with eight.  
 “We have an outstanding group already at that
position in our base defense, but you can expect Jason to
be out there a bunch,” Ryan said. “You’ve got to be able
to rush the passer in the fourth quarter and I think those
things are something that we really wanted to get better at
this year.”  
 Six Pro Bowls  
 Taylor was selected for the Pro Bowl following the
2000, 2002 and 2004-2007 seasons. He was the 2006 NFL
Defensive Player of the Year.  
 The Jets didn’t disclose terms of his contract. During
the 2009 season, Taylor was critical of Jets fans in an
interview with Sirius NFL Radio.  
 “I’ve said a lot of things about Jets fans in the
past and I’m sure at heart they’re good people, most of
them are good people,” Taylor said in that interview.
“The (New York) Giants’ fans are a different type of
people, just put it that way. There’s a little more class
on the Giants’ side and some Jets fans take the ‘cl’ out of
class.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        