-- KB Home Ex-CEO Bruce Karatz Found Guilty in Stock Options-Backdating Trial
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-04-21T23:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/kb-home-ex-ceo-bruce-karatz-found-guilty-in-stock-options-backdating-trial.html

          
          
             Former KB Home Chief Executive
Officer Bruce Karatz was found guilty by a U.S. jury of hiding
from auditors and regulators that he backdated stock options.  
 Jurors in federal court in Los Angeles today found Karatz
guilty of two counts of mail fraud and two counts of making a
false statement. He was acquitted of 16 charges, including mail
and wire fraud, securities fraud and filing false proxy
statements.  
 Karatz, 64, was accused of unauthorized and undisclosed
backdating of stock options that brought him $6.62 million in
compensation he wasn’t entitled to from 1999 to 2005. He stepped
down as chief executive at Los Angeles-based KB Home in 2006
after 20 years in charge of the homebuilder.  
 “The jury got 80 percent of it right,” Karatz’s lawyer,
John Keker, said outside the courthouse. “We’re very
disappointed about the other counts. We’ll continue to fight
those.”  
 Keker said he’ll file requests for acquittal by the judge
and for a new trial, and if those fail, he’ll file an appeal. In
a separate statement Keker said he was pleased that the jury
acquitted Karatz of all charges that alleged backdating.  
 U.S. District Judge Otis D. Wright scheduled sentencing for
Sept. 8 and increased Karatz’s bail to $2 million.  
 Karatz faces as long as 80 years in prison on the four
counts for which he’s been convicted, Thom Mrozek, a spokesman
for U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr., said in a statement.  
 Grants Dates  
 Keker argued during the trial that Karatz had been
authorized by the company’s compensation committee to select the
grant dates of the options awarded to him and other executives.
Karatz didn’t hide that the option dates weren’t the same as the
dates on which the committee awarded them and nobody at KB Home
thought there was an issue with that, according to his lawyer.  
 Prosecutors said Karatz, with the help of KB Home’s former
head of human resources, who pleaded guilty and cooperated with
the government, selected the dates with the lowest possible
price of the options, sometimes weeks after the compensation
committee had awarded these, and then lied to an in-house lawyer
investigating the options program.  
 “I will continue to get strength from the support of my
family, including my wife, children and grandchildren, good
friend and former colleagues,” Karatz said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 SEC Settlement  
 In September 2008, Karatz agreed to pay almost $7.2 million
to settle U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claims he had
used hindsight to pick advantageous dates for options grants. KB
Home said at the time of Karatz’s resignation in 2006 that he
would repay $13 million to cover gains he shouldn’t have
received.  
 Karatz was paid about $43 million in 2005, including stock
option grants, which made him the highest paid homebuilding
industry executive in the U.S. KB Home said in February 2007
that it had understated stock-based compensation by $36.3
million from 1999 to 2005.  
 Karatz’s conviction for the backdating-related charges
follows that of former Brocade Communications Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Gregory Reyes in San Francisco last month.
Reyes was found guilty of nine of the 10 counts he had been
charged with, including securities fraud.  
 Lower Stock Price  
 Stock options allow holders to buy shares at a later date,
usually at the trading price on the day they were granted.
Through backdating, companies change the grant date to a day
with a lower stock price, giving recipients built-in profits.
Unless disclosed and recorded as an expense, the practice is
illegal because it hides costs from shareholders and regulators.  
 In December, a federal judge in Santa Ana, California,
threw out the backdating cases against former Broadcom Corp.
executives after finding that the prosecutors there had
intimidated witnesses to cooperate. Karatz unsuccessfully sought
to have his case dismissed for alleged prosecutorial misconduct.  
 Wright said in February that there was no connection
between the Broadcom case and Karatz’s.  
 The case is U.S. v. Karatz, 09-203, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        