-- Netflix Profit Jumps 44% on New Users
-- Adam Satariano
-- 2010-04-21T23:52:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/netflix-quarterly-profit-increases-44-as-movie-rental-service-adds-users.html

          
          
             Netflix Inc. said first-quarter
profit rose 44 percent as the movie subscription service signed
up new customers and increased online offerings.  
 Net income advanced to $32.3 million, or 59 cents a share,
from $22.4 million, or 37 cents, a year earlier, the Los Gatos,
California-based company said today in a statement. Sales rose
25 percent to $493.7 million, meeting the average estimate of 24
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Netflix added 1.7 million subscribers in the quarter and
expects to have as many as 17.3 million by year-end. Chief
Executive Officer Reed Hastings is expanding digital offerings
to encourage more users to stream movies and television shows
through Web-enabled devices such as game consoles, Blu-ray
players and Apple Inc.’s iPad. Netflix said 55 percent of its
clients use the Web service, up from 48 percent last quarter.  
 “The combination of DVD by mail and watching instantly
over Internet, and getting it on all the game consoles and other
electronic devices for $9 a month -- that’s a really good
value,” said Todd Greenwald, an analyst with Signal Hill
Capital Group in Baltimore. He recommends holding the stock.  
 First-quarter profit topped analysts’ predictions of 54
cents a share, the average of 28 estimates in a survey.  
 Outlook  
 The company projects second-quarter earnings will rise to
62 cents to 73 cents a share on sales of as much as $525
million. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated profit of 72
cents on revenue of $516.4 million. Earnings for the full year
will be $2.41 to $2.63 a share on sales of as much as $2.16
million. Analysts expected profit of $2.65.  
 Adding more movies and TV shows that people can view
through the “Watch Instantly” online service will be central
to Netflix’s long-term growth, Hastings said in an interview.  
 In the second half of the year, Netflix plans to cut
spending on marketing and use the savings to buy more content
rights. The shift may result in lower subscriber growth than in
the first half of the year, Netflix said.  
 “If you think about when YouTube launched in 2005, and
then we launched streaming in 2007 on laptops and PCs, to where
we are today is amazing progress,” Hastings said. “If you’d
asked us in 2005 would 50 percent of our active subscribers be
streaming in five years, I would not have guessed it.”  
 The proposed elimination of Saturday service by the U.S.
Postal Service would have a “pretty modest” impact on Netflix,
Hastings said.  
 “We’re hopeful it wouldn’t begin until the middle of next
year,” Hastings said.  
 ‘Humming’  
 Netflix, which has gained 58 percent this year, rose $1.04
to $88.02 at 5:02 pm in extended trading after the results were
announced. The shares fell 9 cents to $86.98 in regular Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  
 Churn, a measurement of canceled subscriptions, fell to 3.8
percent from 3.9 percent last quarter. Netflix is facing
competition from Redbox movie rental vending machines operated
by Coinstar Inc., as well as increased online movie offerings
from Time Warner Inc.’s HBO, Comcast Corp. and DirecTV.
Retailers such as Blockbuster Inc. and Movie Gallery Inc. are
closing stores.  
 Hastings said the company also is watching to see whether
Hulu decides to start a subscription streaming service.  
 “We’re taking that seriously,” he said.  
 Digital Offerings  
 As Netflix expands its digital offerings, Hastings has
deemphasized new releases.  
 Netflix reached deals with Hollywood studios this year to
delay rentals of new movies for 28 days. The arrangements with
Time Warner’s Warner Bros., General Electric Co.’s Universal
Studios and News Corp.’s Twentieth Century Fox give Netflix a
discounted price for DVDs and additional streaming content. The
studios also get a non-rental window to boost disc sales.  
 A Netflix subscription starting at $8.99 per month lets
users rent one DVD at a time and provides unlimited access to
the streaming service. The company doesn’t plan to start an
online pay-per-view service, Hastings said.  
 “If we had offered a pay-per-view service for new
releases, we would be in conflict with a broad range of
companies, including Wal-Mart, Microsoft, Sony and Apple,”
Hastings said. “By staying out of pay-per-view we avoid that
channel conflict and are therefore able to get better
distribution.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Reed Hastings, president and chief executive officer of NetFlix Inc., speaks during an interview in San Francisco, on Feb. 17, 2009. Photographer: Ryan Anson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
