-- Questar Considers Spinning Off Its Oil and Natural-Gas Production Business
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-04-21T21:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/questar-considers-spinning-off-its-oil-and-natural-gas-production-business.html

          
          
             Questar Corp., the oil and natural-
gas producer that has a utility serving three states in the
western U.S., said it’s considering spinning off its exploration
and production business, a unit which accounted for about 34
percent of the company’s net income in 2009.  
 The new company would also include Questar’s gas-management
and energy-trading subsidiaries, in addition to the exploration
and production unit, Salt Lake City-based Questar said today in
a statement.  
 Questar said it would remain based in Salt Lake City and be
comprised of three other subsidiaries, including Questar Gas
Co., which is a regulated utility that serves about 900,000
homes and businesses in Utah, Wyoming and Idaho. The spinoff may
happen in the second half of 2010 if certain conditions are met
and it’s approved by the board, according to the statement.  
 “A separation of our high-growth E&P business from our
regulated businesses may be a logical step in a long-term
strategy that has served all Questar stakeholders well over the
past decade,” Chief Executive Officer Keith O. Rattie said in
the statement. “If consummated, we believe the spinoff would
create two top-tier companies in their respective market
segments.”  
 The gas-management operations gather and process the fuel
in the Rocky Mountain region and northwestern Louisiana. The
energy-trading unit markets gas and oil on behalf of the
exploration and production subsidiary and operates a gas-storage
facility in Wyoming.  
 Questar plans to issue first-quarter earnings results after
the close of U.S. markets on April 27, with a conference call
scheduled for the following day.  
 In addition to Questar Gas, the existing company would
include Wexpro Co., which produces gas on behalf of Questar
Gas’s utility customers, and Questar Pipeline, which operates
interstate gas pipelines and storage facilities in the western
U.S.  
 Today’s statement was issued after the end of regular U.S.
trading. Questar surged 6.3 percent to $48.75 at 5:18 p.m. in
after-hours trading.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        