-- Transocean Says `Blowout' May Have Caused Rig Fire
-- Jessica Resnick-Ault
-- 2010-04-21T22:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/transocean-says-blowout-may-have-caused-explosion-fire-on-deepwater-rig.html

          
          
             Transocean Ltd. said a pressure
surge violent enough to rupture pipes, known in the oil and
natural-gas industry as a blowout, may have triggered the
explosion and fire yesterday on a deepwater rig that injured 17
people and left 11 missing.  
 The assumption is based on the nature of the fire, which is
burning from the top of the well, fed by escaping oil or gas,
Adrian Rose, Transocean’s vice president for quality, health,
safety and the environment, said at a New Orleans press
conference today. The company has yet to board the rig or
interview survivors.  
 The fire engulfed the Deepwater Horizon, a floating rig
leased to BP Plc, at 10 p.m. local time as it was completing the
concrete casing of a well drilled to a depth of 18,000 feet
(5,486 meters), apparently with little or no warning, Rose said.
The rig was 41 miles off the coast of Louisiana.  
 “There was undoubtedly some abnormal pressure buildup,”
Rose said. “As oil or gas came up, it expanded rapidly and
ignited. This is an assumption. We still don’t know exactly the
cause.”  
 The U.S. Minerals Management Service, the U.S. agency that
oversees offshore drilling and its parent, the Department of the
Interior, and the Coast Guard will investigate the cause of the
explosion, Deputy Interior Secretary David Hayes said at the
press conference. Transocean, based in Geneva, and BP, based in
London, also will investigate, Rose said.  
 Crew Fate Unknown  
 The fate of the 11 missing crew members is unknown after a
search of the area that began shortly after the explosion and
lasted all day, involving as many as four helicopters, a search
plane and four ships, U.S. Coast Guard Rear Admiral Mary E.
Landry said at the press conference.  
 The search will continue overnight using infrared and other
sensors, Landry said. The missing people aren’t believed to be
in a life boat, she said.  
 Transocean fell $1.66, or 1.8 percent, to $90.37 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. BP dropped
7.2 pence to 648.2 pence.  
 BP mobilized seven large oil-spill cleanup vessels,
although pollution has been “minimal” because flames are
consuming the petroleum, David Rainey, BP’s vice president for
Gulf of Mexico production, said at the press conference. An oil
sheen is visible on the water, Landry said.  
 “The fire is still burning,” Rainey said. “It ebbs and
flows, it goes up and down, it’s a hot fire. Our effort must be
to put the fire out.”  
 Putting Out Fire  
 Crews will attempt to staunch the fuel to the fire using a
remote-operated vehicle, Rainey said. Ships are pouring water on
the blaze, hoping to cool the rig sufficiently for the robot to
move in, he said.  
 It’s too soon to know if the rig is salvageable, Rose said.
It’s reported listing, or riding askew in the water, from 3
degrees to 10 degrees, and is in no danger of capsizing, he
said.  
 The Deepwater Horizon is a semi-submersible drilling unit
that can drill in water up to 8,000 feet deep, according to
Transocean’s Web site. The floating rig was built in 2001 and
was designed to withstand rough waters.  
 Transocean said last year the ultra-deepwater rig drilled
the deepest oil and gas well ever, more than 6 miles, while
working for BP in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 All BP workers are safe and accounted for, David Nicholas,
a spokesman for the company, said today in a statement.  
 Lease Extension  
 BP agreed in September to extend its lease on the Deepwater
Horizon rig for three years and pay an additional $3.4 million a
year in rent.  
 The company agreed to pay $544 million, or $496,800 a day,
during the three-year period, Transocean said at the time. That
was above the prior rent, which averaged about $487,500 a day.  
 The Deepwater Horizon accounts for about 34 cents of annual
per-share earnings for Transocean, or about 4 percent of profit,
Arun Jayaram, an analyst for Credit Suisse Holdings USA Inc. in
New York, said today in an interview.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       The Transocean Ltd. Deepwater Horizon  
                       
                         
                           Transocean Ltd. via Bloomberg 
                         
                         The Transocean Ltd. Deepwater Horizon, a semi-submersible drilling unit, is seen in the Gulf of Mexico in this file photo. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The Transocean Ltd. Deepwater Horizon, a semi-submersible drilling unit, is seen in the Gulf of Mexico in this file photo. Source: Transocean Ltd. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
