-- Obama Says Politics Didn't Influence SEC's Goldman Suit
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-04-21T22:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/sec-s-decision-to-sue-goldman-wasn-t-influenced-by-white-house-obama-says.html

          
          
             President Barack Obama said the
White House had no influence on the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s decision to file suit against Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. as financial regulation legislation is being debated in
Congress.  
 Any notion that the administration knew ahead of time about
the SEC action is “completely false,” Obama said in an
interview today with CNBC. The SEC is an independent federal
agency and “they never discussed with us anything” about the
Goldman Sachs case, he said.  
 The SEC on April 16 announced it is suing Goldman Sachs,
alleging the bank created and sold collateralized debt
obligations linked to subprime mortgages in early 2007 without
disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped pick the
underlying securities and bet against the vehicles. Goldman
Sachs has called the accusations “unfounded in law and fact”
and vowed to fight the case.  
 The action was taken as the administration and Senate
Democrats were gearing up to push ahead with legislation on
market regulations in the face of unified Republican resistance.  
 “The SEC is an entirely independent agency that we have no
day-to-day control over,” Obama said.  
 SEC Statement  
 SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro said in a separate statement
that the agency doesn’t coordinate its actions with the White
House or Congress and doesn’t consider the “political
consequences” in deciding which cases to pursue.  
 U.S. Representative Darrell Issa of California and eight
other House Republicans asked Schapiro in a letter yesterday to
release all communication between the SEC and the White House.
It expressed concern that “politics have unduly influenced the
decision and timing of the commission’s controversial
enforcement action.”  
 The president will make a public appeal tomorrow for his
regulatory proposals during a speech at Cooper Union in New
York, a few miles away from Wall Street. Obama spoke there about
regulatory overhaul as a presidential candidate in 2008.  
 In the interview, Obama said at the “core” of the
administration’s regulatory overhaul is assurance “that we
don’t have to bail out firms if they acted recklessly, that we
can unwind them in an orderly fashion that protects the economy
as a whole, that taxpayers aren’t on the hook.”  
 Derivatives  
 The president said he wants to put derivatives “in an
exchange, in a clearing house so that everybody knows exactly
what’s going on.” He also said he wants the overhaul to include
“strong consumer protections.”  
 Obama said there is no conflict in former White House
Counsel Gregory Craig working as an adviser to Goldman Sachs. He
called Craig “one of the top lawyers in the country” who knows
he cannot lobby the White House on behalf of the firm because of
ethics rules. Craig resigned from the White House last year.  
 On the budget and taxes, Obama said he will wait to make
decisions on changes in tax rates or structure until he hears
from a commission he established to recommend ways to cut the
deficit.  
 Obama wouldn’t say whether he would veto any effort to
raise taxes on Americans earning less than $250,000 a year; as a
presidential candidate, he said he would oppose any such
proposals.  
 The government must make cuts in programs that aren’t
working and take other steps to rein in spending, he said. The
federal budget deficit is forecast to hit $1.6 trillion this
year.  
 “At a certain point what we’ve got to do is match up money
going out with money coming in,” Obama said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Mary Schapiro, chairman of the U.S. SEC  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Mary Schapiro, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, speaks at an SEC meeting in Washington D.C. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Mary Schapiro, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, speaks at an SEC meeting in Washington D.C. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          April 22 (Bloomberg) -- Jacob Frenkel, a former SEC lawyer now in private practice at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy & Ecker in Potomac, Maryland, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
     Fabrice Tourre, the Goldman Sachs banker at the center of fraud allegations against the firm, has agreed to testify and may defend his actions at a Senate hearing next week, said two people briefed on the plan. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       U.S. President Barack Obama  
                       
                         
                           Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg 
                         
                         U.S. President Barack Obama speaks during a news conference in Washington, on April 13, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     U.S. President Barack Obama speaks during a news conference in Washington, on April 13, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
