-- Simon Adds $1.1 Billion to General Growth Proposal With Four New Backers
-- Daniel Taub
-- 2010-04-21T23:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/simon-adds-1-1-billion-to-general-growth-proposal-with-four-new-backers.html

          
          
             Simon Property Group Inc. added
four backers including Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF unit and ING
Clarion Real Estate Securities to its plan for bringing rival
General Growth Properties Inc. out of bankruptcy.  
 The new group, which also includes Taconic Capital Advisors
and Oak Hill Advisors LP, will add $1.1 billion to the proposal,
Indianapolis-based Simon said today in a statement. The
investments would be on top of the $2.5 billion pledged by Simon
and $1 billion from hedge fund Paulson & Co.  
 Simon, the only U.S. mall owner larger than General Growth,
said a week ago it would match the terms of a bankruptcy exit
plan led by Brookfield Asset Management Inc. Simon executives
including Chief Executive Officer David Simon are scheduled to
meet with General Growth officials in Chicago tomorrow, said two
people familiar with plan.  
 Simon will revise its bid to include the rights to name two
directors for General Growth’s board, rather than the three it
had first proposed, one of the people said. The change is the
result of discussions between the two companies over the past
week, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
proposal isn’t public.  
 Simon’s nominees are Dale Anne Reiss, a former senior
partner at Ernst & Young LLP, and Peter D. Linneman, a professor
of real estate finance and public policy at the Wharton School
at the University of Pennsylvania, the person said. Both people
are unaffiliated with Simon Property, the person said.  
 David Keating, a spokesman for General Growth, said he had
no immediate comment.  
 No Warrants  
 Simon said its offer is better for General Growth
shareholders because, unlike Brookfield’s plan, it doesn’t
include issuing warrants that may dilute stock value.  
 The addition of partners to the Simon plan “underscores
the fact that dilutive warrants required by Brookfield, which
could cost GGP shareholders $895 million, are unnecessary and
unfair to GGP’s current shareholders,” David Simon said in
today’s statement.  
 General Growth estimates the warrants’ value at about $519
million.  
 Brookfield CEO J. Bruce Flatt said in an April 19 letter to
General Growth that Simon’s proposal raises antitrust concerns
that would hurt the Chicago-based mall owner after it
reorganizes. The Brookfield group, which includes Fairholme
Capital Management LLC and Pershing Square Capital Management
LP, won’t proceed without receiving warrants, Flatt said.  
 Pepsi, Coke  
 “How can it make any sense for General Growth’s largest
competitor to own a negative control block in GGP, ensuring that
GGP will not be able to function effectively, and eventually be
sold to Simon and no one else?” Cyrus Madon, Brookfield’s
senior managing partner responsible for restructuring and
lending, said in an e-mailed statement today. “Would Pepsi
allow Coke to become its largest shareholder?”  
 A bankruptcy court hearing on the plans is scheduled for
April 29.  
 Simon, which made a $10 billion takeover offer for General
Growth that was turned down as too low in February, said last
week it’s still interested in buying its rival outright.  
 General Growth filed the largest real estate bankruptcy in
U.S. history a year ago after amassing $27 billion in debt
making acquisitions. Its properties include New York’s South
Street Seaport, Boston’s Faneuil Hall and the Grand Canal
Shoppes and Fashion Show in Las Vegas.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Taub in Los Angeles at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        