-- Spandex Superhero Gains in Race to Succeed Colombia's Uribe as Rebels Fade
-- Helen Murphy
-- 2010-04-21T22:03:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/spandex-superhero-gains-in-race-to-succeed-colombia-s-uribe-as-rebels-fade.html

          
          
             A Colombian mathematician known for
quieting unruly students by mooning them and donning a
superhero’s spandex outfit to teach civic values is gaining in a
bid to succeed President Alvaro Uribe.  
 Former Bogota Mayor Antanas Mockus, dismissed as a clown by
opponents, surged into second place in polls ahead of Colombia’s
May 30 vote even after announcing that he suffers from early-
stage Parkinson’s disease. The polls show the Green Party
candidate trails Uribe’s former Defense Minister, Juan Manuel
Santos, by as few as 7 percentage points, down from 17 percent
last month. In 2006 elections against Uribe, Mockus won just 1
percent.  
 Uribe’s success in stemming Colombia’s drug-fueled violence
is allowing urban voters to focus on other issues, including
corruption and unemployment, analysts said. During two terms as
mayor, Mockus, 58, used dramatic pranks to advance his goals of
improving public transport, cutting crime and balancing the
budget. His record has drawn praise from Uribe, who, with a 63
percent approval rating, remains a political kingmaker.  
 Mockus “shines as a fresh, clean, anti-politician,” said
Felipe Botero, a political science professor at Bogota’s
Universidad de los Andes. “He’s a question mark, but people
like him.”  
 Under Uribe’s watch, foreign investors have poured as much
as $50 billion into industries including oil and coal, according
to the central bank. Gross domestic product measured in constant
dollars has climbed about 37 percent according to the World
Bank, while the benchmark IGBC stock index has risen more than
ten-fold.  
 No Radical Departure  
 Mockus, who as mayor of the city of 7.5 million boosted tax
collection alongside investment, has vowed to continue prudent
fiscal management as president. Investors say they aren’t
concerned about electing Mockus because the margin for any
radical departure from Uribe’s popular policies is minimal.  
 “Colombia has a very mature economy that honors its debt
and that won’t change under Mockus,” said Alvaro Camaro, a vice
president at Bogota-based Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest
brokerage. “He was excellent at managing Bogota’s economy so
there’s no reason to be afraid.”  
 Mockus has been gaining on Santos, 58, since the
constitutional court decided Feb. 26 that Uribe couldn’t run for
a third term. Santos was favored by 36 percent to Mockus’s 29
percent in an April 12-14 survey of 1,000 people by the Centro
Nacional de Consultoria, or CNC, with a 3 percentage point
margin of error. Mockus had 11 percent support in a CNC poll
published March 27.  
 If no candidate wins a majority, the top two will face off
in a June 20 runoff.  
 ‘Super Citizen’  
 The son of Lithuanian immigrants, Mockus is captivating
urban, middle class voters weary of established political
parties, said Eric Farnsworth, vice president of the Council of
the Americas in Washington, a policy group supported by
businesses.  
 As mayor starting in 1995, Mockus reduced traffic
fatalities by hiring mimes to ridicule motorists who violated
driving laws. He took a televised shower with his wife to
encourage water conservation and dressed in spandex to be a
self-proclaimed “Super Citizen” to encourage civic
responsibility. As a university rector, he silenced a room full
of noisy students by dropping his pants.  
 “‘His sense of humor really gets the message across,”
said Farnsworth.  
 Mockus has little support in the rural heartland where
Santos is lionized for engineering some of the worst defeats for
the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the drug-funded
rebel group known as the FARC, Botero said.  
 ‘Mimes and Sunflowers’  
 “You can’t confront the guerrillas with mimes and
sunflowers,” Felipe Arias, Uribe’s former agricultural
minister, told Caracol Radio after dropping out of the
presidential race this month.  
 Mockus, like many of the nine presidential candidates,
pledges to maintain Uribe’s security policies.  
 Tapping former Medellin Mayor Sergio Fajardo as his vice
presidential running mate helped boost his national appeal,
analysts said. The 53-year-old Fajardo, also a mathematician,
built libraries and extended micro-credit to shantytown dwellers
as mayor until 2007 of one of the world’s most violent cities.  
 “Mockus can taste the victory and that has pushed him to
sharpen his political skills,” said Michael Shifter, president
of the Inter-American Dialogue, a research group in Washington.  
 Colombia receives about $700 million in annual U.S. aid to
fight the drug trade that provides 80 percent of the cocaine
entering the U.S. each year.  
 Murdered Civilians  
 Uribe, 57, is credited for slashing one of the world’s
highest kidnapping rates by 93 percent to 213 last year compared
with 2,882 in 2002, the year he took office.  
 Santos’ reputation has recently been tarnished by judicial
investigations into allegations by human rights groups that the
army killed hundreds of civilians who were passed off as
guerrillas taken down in combat.  
 If elected, Mockus will have a difficult time governing,
said Botero. His party won 5 of 102 Senate seats in March
congressional elections compared with 67 for parties that backed
Uribe. Santos’ “La U” party garnered 28 seats.  
 “I thank Uribe and the U.S. for making the first stage
possible,” Mockus said in an April 16 phone interview from a
campaign stop in Cali. “I believe that a heavy hand is not
enough though. Colombia needs justice too.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Alvaro Uribe, Colombia's president  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Alvaro Uribe, Colombia's president, speaks during a television interview on day three of the 2010 World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, on Jan. 29, 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Alvaro Uribe, Colombia's president, speaks during a television interview on day three of the 2010 World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, on Jan. 29, 2010. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Antanas Mockus  
                       
                         
                           Eitan Abramovich/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Antanas Mockus, former mayor of Bogota and presidential candidate for the Partido Verde (Green Party), gestures during a televised debate on April 18, 2010, in Bogota. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Antanas Mockus, former mayor of Bogota and presidential candidate for the Partido Verde (Green Party), gestures during a televised debate on April 18, 2010, in Bogota. Photographer: Eitan Abramovich/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
