-- Women on Wall Street and Their Hidden Challenges
-- Lauren Leader-Chivee
-- 2010-04-21T22:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-04-21/women-on-wall-street-and-their-hidden-challenges.html

          
          
             This post was co-authored with Lauren Leader-Chivee. 

 The Dow is up and, in some sectors, so is hiring. According to the recent  Manpower 2010 employment survey , the financial services industry reported a net employment increase of about 14 percent in the first quarter of 2010 and anticipates an additional 9 percent increase in the second quarter.  

 That's not the whole story. Despite the great strides women made in the financial sector in recent years,  less than 18 percent of corporate officers and boards of directors at Fortune 500 financial services firms are female  (PDF link). The post-recession hiring trends do not bode well for improving those numbers or for the future of equal pay for women. 

 In recent boom years, 28 percent of highly qualified and successful Wall Street women took time out for various reasons, including to care for young children or parents, trusting that they could resume their careers a few years later. Re-entry is proving harder than they thought. Recent data from the  Center for Work-Life Policy  (to be published in the June issue of  Harvard Business Review ) found that 89 percent of women who took " off-ramps " want to return to work. However, 60 percent of them don't succeed. 

 The economic downturn produced a talent pool overflowing with highly qualified candidates, both men and women, but evidence suggests that the bar for women to reenter Wall Street is disproportionately high. Hiring managers are looking for what  Hannah Brazier , a recruiter with Russell Reynolds' Asset and Wealth Management Practice, calls "an absolute bull's eye" in terms of experience and profile. "If you don't hit all the elements, it's hard to be taken seriously," Brazier says.  

 In a recent search for an executive at a top Wall Street firm, the hiring manager repeatedly told the recruiter that he didn't want to hire women with children as it would, he believed, impede them from working long hours. The recruiter, who asked to remain anonymous, felt powerless to argue with the client. "In this candidate-rich market, it's very easy for companies to cover discriminatory hiring practices under the guise of having found a more qualified candidate," she said.  

 Other talented women who left the industry — willingly or not — report that even when they do land a job, it's extremely difficult to regain the same pay and title levels they left. Data drawn from the recent CWLP research, including a 2009 survey, shows that the longer a woman is out of the workforce, the worse the effect on pay. Women out of the workforce for one to two years lose 14 percent of their earning power. For women out three years or more, the effect is devastating: a 46 percent drop in earning power. 

 These high hurdles for women only compound the challenges of growing female talent on Wall Street. Fewer high-powered women mean fewer female mentors and role models available to younger women — making it less likely that the next generations of female talent will climb the corporate ladder. All of this is sobering news for women thinking about stepping out of the workforce.  

 While off-ramps clearly pose long-term challenges for women, there are some companies with other alternatives. More and more, Wall Street firms are thinking about ways to expand flexible work options as a way to help employees, especially women, to find balance between work and home without dropping out altogether.  Citi  and  American Express  have incorporated flex work options into their core business strategy, offering a broad range of options to their employees. Such alternative work strategies may be the best available option for women who want to stay on track professionally and financially.  

 Wall Street needs to address this gaping hole in opportunities for women. If the industry doesn't get it right now, when there are a number of terrifically talented women available, it's hard to imagine things improving when the market really turns around.  

 Hewlett's collaborator on this post, Lauren Leader-Chivee, is a principal at SA Hewlett Associates, leading the consulting arm of the Center for Work-Life Policy.. 

