-- Drinkers, Smokers Produce Mixed Bag for Investors: David Pauly
-- David Pauly
-- 2010-02-17T02:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-16/drinkers-smokers-produce-mixed-bag-for-investors-david-pauly.html

          
          
             Beer sales were supposed to be
recession-proof, with prices always low enough to survive
consumers’ budget cuts.  
 It hasn’t worked that way this time at MillerCoors LLC, the
U.S. venture of London’s  SABMiller  Plc and Denver’s  Molson  Coors
Brewing Co. Or at  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the world’s largest
brewer, which is based in Leuven, Belgium.  
 MillerCoors last week reported its fourth-quarter shipments
to wholesalers had dropped 4.2 percent, shipments to retailers
3.6 percent.  
 Anheuser-Busch InBev earlier had said third-quarter
 shipments  declined 3.3 percent. In the U.S., shipments of the
company’s Budweiser brands fell 5.1 percent. The brewer said its
fourth-quarter numbers would be better but hasn’t reported them
yet.  
 Still, investors who count on sin stocks to get them
through tough markets need not despair: Cigarette companies are
doing as well as ever.  
 Philip Morris International Inc.,  spun  off from Altria
Group Inc. in 2008, said its fourth-quarter sales rose 12
percent. The New York-based company predicted profit for the
year of as much as $3.85 a share, up from $3.24 a share in 2009.  
 Altria, which kept the U.S. cigarette business, previously
had reported that its fourth-quarter shipments fell 11 percent.
Profit was up 6.8 percent, though, on higher prices -- smokers
who can’t quit will pay anything -- and the acquisition of
snuff-maker UST Inc.  
 Temperance Movement  
 Beer-company results may not match those of cigarette
makers because while most people can drink without becoming
hooked, most smokers can’t.  
 Tobacco companies have survived an era of high taxes and
payments to governments in retribution for the diseases they
cause.  
 Philip Morris International, turned loose because cigarette
sales grow faster overseas than in U.S., is making so much money
it plans to buy back $12 billion of its stock over three years
starting in May. Too bad the buybacks aren’t a step toward
liquidation.  
 Brewers will survive, if not as well. Anheuser-Busch InBev
shares have jumped 93 percent from their low of the past 12
months.  
 Hard liquor has a future too. Shares of  Diageo Plc , the
largest such company, are up 42 percent from their 12-month low.
The London-based distiller last week raised its dividend for the
half ended in December by 5 percent.  
 Bad Start  
 The maker of Johnnie Walker scotch and Smirnoff vodka said
net sales fell 4 percent in North America and 2 percent in
Europe.  
 Drink makers perhaps wish they sold something softer.  
 Coca-Cola  Co. and PepsiCo Inc., which sell soda pop, sports
drinks and bottled water, both reported fourth-quarter growth in
dollar sales of about 5 percent and outsized gains in profit.  
 PepsiCo, which also makes salted snacks such as Lay’s
potato chips and Fritos, last week joined a move by other soft-
drink companies, saying it would put calorie counts on the front
of its products by the end of 2012.  
 Jumping on a health trend is a nice marketing ploy -- one
denied to sin stocks.  
 ( David Pauly  is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Pauly in Fort Myers, Florida at 
 dpauly@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        