-- Federal Jobs Look Too Good Not to Have Big Price: Amity Shlaes
-- Amity Shlaes
-- 2010-02-17T02:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-16/federal-jobs-look-too-good-not-to-have-big-price-amity-shlaes.html

          
          
             To hear  Harry Reid  or  Mitch McConnell , you would think that the future of the American
workforce depends on whether they can agree on temporary payroll
tax holidays, highway funding, biodiesel subsidies and supplying
teachers with enough cash to acquire new pencils.  
 None of these, or just about anything else in the various
versions of the jobs legislation, gets at the big question about
jobs. That question is whether Senate Majority Leader Reid or
his Republican counterpart are even considering what might be
called the jobscape -- the overall outlook for jobs, and
especially how a job creator, the entrepreneur, fits in that
picture. In recent years that jobscape has shifted in subtle
ways that discourage enterprise, and so prospects for the
economic recovery.  
 The first feature of that shift is a change in the federal
workforce. In the 1990s, former President  Bill Clinton  and House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  managed to reduce the federal workforce to
less than 2 million, excluding the postal service.  
 But from January 2000 to January 2010 -- first under
President  George W. Bush  after Sept. 11, then under  Barack Obama 
-- the number of  non-postal employees  in the federal government
grew 15 percent, to 2.18 million from 1.89 million. The rise
came in Homeland Security positions, Veterans Administration
jobs, Justice Department posts, and so on.  
 This increase would mean less if the private sector had
grown as well. But over the same period, private-sector
employment decreased by 3 percent, to about 107 million from
about 110 million. In short, the relative picture changed.  
 Better Jobs  
 Jobs with Uncle Sam aren’t just more numerous than they
used to be. They’re better.  Wages and benefits  for federal
civilian workers were more than double the average total
compensation in the private sector: $119,982 versus $59,909. In
the treacherous period between December 2007 and mid-2009, the
number of federal employees earning more than $100,000 doubled,
rising to 66,500 or so. Much of this was due to locked-in raises
for workers who were rising through the ranks.  
 Then there’s the allure of the stability of a federal job.
About one in five jobs at the federal level ends in firing or
resignation. By contrast that rate is one in two in the private
sector, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Job
Openings and Labor Turnover Survey.  
 The same pattern of increase in government jobs for the
just-closed decade shows up at the  state  and local level -- writ
large. Federal data show that the number of  total  government
employees in the U.S. rose to 22.5 million from 20.6 million.  
 Wrong Message  
 The new relative appeal of a government job sends a message
that private-sector work, especially self-employment or a job at
a start-up, may not be worthwhile. Recent wipeouts of big
businesses and the recessionary struggles of smaller ones only
reinforce that message. So do politicians’ occasional
disparagement of “risk.”  
 The country has seen jobscapes like this before. In the
1930s and early 1940s, people gifted in higher mathematics
became sixth-grade teachers not because they enjoyed the company
of 11-year-olds but because the posts were relatively secure.
The private sector wasn’t offering many jobs, and federal jobs
became so enticing that even economist  Milton Friedman  took one.  
 In the 1950s, the number of non-postal federal employees in
the executive branch rose to 1.8 million from 1.4 million, more
than 25 percent, outpacing the overall growth of the labor
force. Many scientists and engineers placed their faith in what
 Irving Kristol  labeled the Big PX -- government.  
 ‘Depression-Proof’  
 Big corporations, for their part, offered jobs so
regimented they felt like public-sector jobs. In “ The
Organization Man ,” scholar William H. Whyte reported that
anxious graduates sought “a depression-proof sanctuary” and
took work that seemed to provide that. College-placement
officers noted that less than 5 percent of young men who
intended to go into business said they wanted to be
entrepreneurs. As one student put it in 1949: “I don’t think
 AT&T  is very exciting but that’s the company I’d like to join.
If a depression comes there will always be an AT&T.”  
 This attitude can yield a cruel joke of a career. No
depression came. And a young man who did join AT&T in 1950 and
stayed at the company through the decades would live to see it
break up and dump him just when he hit his mid-50s, when the job
market turned unfriendly.  
 Today, the U.S. economy has more competition than it did in
the 1950s. So the kind of policy change that would affect the
jobscape, such as eliminating the capital-gains tax and
simplifying the income tax, is necessary.  
 But you won’t hear about those radical measures in the
Reid-McConnell jobs debate of February 2010. That’s a shame,
because right now there are young people deciding whether they
will be employers or mere employees. And they’re considering the
whole jobscape.  
 ( Amity Shlaes , senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations, is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Amity Shlaes  at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   
          
          


  


        