-- Higher Inflation Is a Lousy Cure for Meltdowns: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-02-17T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-16/higher-inflation-is-a-lousy-cure-for-meltdowns-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             Policy makers are looking for
measures to avert the next financial crisis. Most of the
proposed solutions involve enhanced regulation. Economists at
the International Monetary Fund have a better idea: higher
inflation.  
 Yes, that’s right. After a multidecade effort to become
credible and anchor  inflation expectations , central banks are
now supposed to throw it all away in order to have more room to
maneuver in financial crises.  
 Start with the inflation target, or ceiling, most central
banks have adopted of 2 percent, multiply by five, add six,
divide by four, and bingo! That’s the new, improved inflation
target of 4 percent, according to IMF economists  Olivier Blanchard , Giovanni Dell’Ariccia and  Paolo Mauro , authors of a
new  paper , “Rethinking Macroeconomic Policy.”  
 Explicit inflation targeting has always been controversial
for central banks with a dual mandate. The Federal Reserve, for
example, is required to deliver stable prices and maximum
sustainable  employment . Some Fed officials eschew an explicit
inflation target, preferring to retain the flexibility to
respond to economic crises with lower interest rates even if
inflation is above a target.  
 Just yesterday, Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  had to
inform Chancellor of the Exchequer  Alistair Darling  about his
plan to rein in the 3.5 percent year-over-year increase in U.K.
 consumer prices  in January, something he’s required to do
when inflation exceeds the bank’s 2 percent target by more than
1 percentage point. King attributed the outsized gain to
“short-run factors,” not a deterioration in the medium-term
inflation outlook. In New Zealand, the central bank governor can
be dismissed for failure to hit the policy target.  
 Happy Bedfellows  
 Stable prices and full employment used to be thought of as
polar opposites. Experience taught us they’re mutually
exclusive. It turns out price stability is both an end in itself
and a means to another end: achieving maximum long-run
employment.  
 So what are we to make of the academic argument for a
higher inflation target?  
 Many central banks lowered their benchmark policy rates to
near zero in response to the financial crisis. The “zero
bound,” as it’s known, circumscribes the path for nominal rates
and may produce high real rates in the case of “deflationary
recessions,” the economists point out. It doesn’t inhibit a
central bank’s ability to increase bank  reserves  by buying
assets or making loans.  
 Good, Better, Best  
 Still, the zero bound has proven “costly,” the economists
write. “Higher average inflation, and thus higher nominal
interest rates to start with, would have made it possible to cut
interest rates more, thereby probably reduce the drop in output
and the deterioration of fiscal positions,” they say.  
 In other words, inflation needs to be higher so the Fed can
push rates lower. That makes sense.  
 By that reasoning, if 4 percent is good, 8 percent should
be better and 10 percent better yet!  
 It’s not just monetary policy where the IMF economists
think the authorities need room. Fiscal policy needs space, too.  
 “Some advanced economies that entered the crisis with high
levels of debt and large unfunded liabilities have had limited
ability to use fiscal policy,” they say.  
 They must be referring to the U.S., with its $56.5 trillion
in  unfunded liabilities , which clearly did nothing to discourage
trillions of dollars of expenditures on controversial bailouts
and stimulus programs.  
 Earth to Academia  
 What planet do these academics live on? Last May Harvard
University economists  Ken Rogoff  and  Greg Mankiw  joined a chorus
advocating higher inflation. Rogoff lobbied “for at least 6
percent for a couple of years” to help the deleveraging process
while Mankiw saw inflation as a better alternative to more
stimulus packages and higher national debt.  
 “I don’t understand how anyone who lived through the 1970s
can say that,” says  Bill Poole , a senior fellow at Washington’s
Cato Institute and former president of the St. Louis Fed.  
 Poole says it’s very unlikely inflation expectations could
be stabilized at 4 percent or that the fiscal system could be
indexed for inflation on a timely basis. Long-term interest
rates would rise, delivering capital losses to bondholders.
Higher inflation would punish savers -- something the nation
could use more of. It would lead to inefficient allocation of
capital. And it would sacrifice hard-won central bank
credibility -- for what? Breathing room in case of another
hundred-year flood?  
 Punchbowl’s Punch  
 Prevention still seems like the best cure for financial
crises. And like many Fed policy makers, Blanchard et al claim
the fed funds rate is a “poor tool” for curbing financial
excesses.  
 It may be. But when it comes to driving those excesses,
nothing beats negative real rates. Government can require more
capital, end the tax subsidy on leverage, as Poole suggests, and
hope that regulators do what they’re supposed to do. In the end,
they’ll be swimming upstream unless someone pulls the proverbial
punchbowl.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        