-- How IT-Smart Is Your Organization?
-- Susan Cramm
-- 2010-02-16T22:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-16/how-it-smart-is-your-organization-.html

          
          
             Consumer electronics. Sensors. Analytics. Web services. The Cloud. The cool technologies that are transforming the competitive landscape and how companies operate are not prototypes in some electronic giant's lab. They're in the marketplace, and affordable. You don't have to overhaul your IT architectures to implement them. If anything, they improve the value of that architecture that you spent gillions putting in place. 

 And, as a bonus, these technologies promise to, in the words of one CIO, "make IT fun again!" 

 Okay, maybe that's taking things a bit far. Still, a lot of smart people predict we're at the front of an astonishing transformation, that the next 30 years of technology development are going to make the last 30 look like the preliminary races in the Olympics. 

 Sounds great, right? Unfortunately, all that potential will never materialize as long as business leaders continue to behave as if IT is something that it done to them rather than by them. A recent conversation I had with a functional business leader is a perfect case-in-point: 

 
 Business leader: "I can't believe the nightmare of trying to get funding for my project. Everyone hates working with IT."

 Me:  "Did you tie your project to a strategically important objective or initiative?" 

 Business leader:  "I'm paid to do my job, not manage IT." 

 Me:  "How would your boss respond if you told him that you'd rather focus on getting your job done and not on managing your people or your financials?" 

 Business leader:  [thoughtful silence] 

 Business leaders know that finance and human resources are not their job but that they have to manage the numbers and their people to do their job. Why is IT different? 

 And while they like to say that IT is important, their walk doesn't match their talk. In last year's "How IT-Smart Is Your Organization?" survey (email me if you would like a copy of the results), 75% of business leaders said they view IT as critical to competitiveness or essential to managing business risks and costs. And yet: 

 Only 30% identify IT needs when developing business strategy and take the lead on justifying and gaining approval for IT-related investments 
 Only 26% manage IT-enabled initiatives and drive IT-enabled business change 
 Only 8% are held accountable for delivering IT-enabled business value 
 I see three reasons for the disconnect between saying IT is important and then behaving as if it isn't. One, they don't want to work with IT. Two, they don't have time to. Three, they don't know how to. Since we know that three quarters of business leaders want to leverage IT and smart leaders make the time for what they believe is important to their success, everything points to the third problem. They don't know how to work with IT. 

 Indeed, the survey also tells us that only 27% of business leaders feel smart about IT. We asked them what they need to know that they don't. They said they want to learn more about how to: 

 Get the most out of the systems in place and what current technology can do and where it is headed 
 Make IT-enabled strategy and invest responsibly 
 Deliver complex solutions 
 Work with IT 
 It's a great list - a dream-come-true list for IT. Guaranteed to make IT fun (and not simply dysfunctional). 

 Of course, business leaders can't learn if someone isn't teaching, and IT isn't teaching.  Most IT executives are focused on getting their own teams business-smart and haven't considered the importance or impact of getting the other parts of the business IT-smart. 

 The promise of new, cool technology depends on IT-smart business leaders, who discover the potential in them through experimentation and application. These are learn-by-doing technologies that are not programmable by IT. Employees will "reprogram" how their companies operate based on how they use these technology. IT's job is to teach, coach, observe, and scale. Imagine the impact of having everyone in the business 10% smarter about IT? It'd do a lot more good than making everyone in IT 100% smarter about the business. 

 What should your company do tap into the potential of every employee becoming smarter about IT? 
          
          


  


        