-- Wereldhave to Buy Five Unibail Malls for $320 Million
-- Peter Woodifield
-- 2010-02-16T13:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-02-16/wereldhave-to-buy-five-unibail-malls-for-320-million-update2-.html

          
          
             Wereldhave NV (WHA)  agreed to buy five
Dutch shopping centers from  Unibail-Rodamco (UL)  for 235 million
euros ($320 million) to strengthen holdings in its home market.  
 The malls, in cities including Eindhoven and Utrecht, have
60,000 square meters (646,000 square feet) of space, Wereldhave,
based in  The Hague , said on its  Web Site  today. Wereldhave will
own eight medium-sized malls when the transaction is completed
in March, it said.  
 “Normally only one shopping center a year of this size
comes up for sale,” Chief Executive Officer Hans Pars said in a
telephone interview. “This was an extraordinarily interesting
opportunity that we could get five in the one shot.”  
 Wereldhave is focusing on larger assets and plans to
increase shopping centers to 60 percent of its holdings from
about 45 percent. The company has about 85 properties, more than
half of which are worth less than 20 million euros, Pars said in
October. The CEO said today that those lesser assets will be
sold.  
 The sale price for the five malls is higher than their book
value as of Dec. 31, Paris-based Unibail said in a separate
statement. Unibail is selling the properties to focus on its
biggest shopping centers in  Europe ’s largest cities.  
 The purchase of the Overvecht shopping center in Utrecht is
conditional, as the mall’s supermarket tenant may exercise its
first-refusal option to buy its own site, Pars said.  
 The acquisitions will give Wereldhave about 485 million
euros of shopping center assets in the Netherlands, exceeding
the 400 million-euro minimum that Pars set for each of the
company’s main markets.  
 More Malls  
 The plan to boost the proportion of malls “depends on
opportunities arising in the market,” Pars said. “The type of
project and the price has to be right.”  
 He said he aims to buy a shopping center in the U.K., where
Wereldhave has about 200 million euros of assets, this year.  
 “The right time to invest in the Spanish office market
still has to come -- I think later than this year,” the CEO
said.  
 Wereldhave rose 22 cents, or 0.3 percent, to 64.44 euros at
1:54 p.m. in Amsterdam trading, for a gain in the past six
months of 2.9 percent. Unibail added 20 cents to 144.05 euros in
Paris trading.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Peter Woodifield at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        