-- AOL signs Napster as music subscription service
-- By  Robert MacMillan  and  Kenneth Li
-- Fri Jan 12, 2007 10:26am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/12/businesspro-napster-aol-dc-idUSN1217356120070112

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - AOL signed Napster Inc. NAPS.O as 
its exclusive online music subscription service, the companies 
said on Friday, sending Napster's shares higher. 

  Napster, which is considering putting itself on the auction 
block, said it will replace the online service's AOL Music Now, 
which has about 350,000 paying subscribers.  The storied online music service hired investment bank UBS 
in September to explore a sale after receiving "third-party 
interest," Napster said at the time.  "We're still involved in multiple conversations," Napster 
Chief Executive Chris Gorog told Reuters in a phone interview, 
declining to elaborate.  Once synonymous with piracy in online music, Napster was 
forced to close in July 2001 after a series of legal battles 
over piracy and copyright infringement.  Software company Roxio later bought Napster and relaunched 
it as a legal site in 2003. Roxio renamed itself Napster, and 
shares began trading in January 2005.  Now Napster competes with Apple Inc.'s ( AAPL.O ) iTunes 
digital music store, which accounts for more than 80 percent of 
U.S. music download sales. ITunes songs are unplayable on 
devices other than Apple's iPod digital media players, a 
business model that Gorog called "fundamentally anti-consumer."  Downloads from Napster and other rivals are playable on 
devices made by a handful of electronics manufacturers. Apple's 
"current business model is to create a walled garden (with 
which) they try to trap their customer," Gorog said.  Wall Street analysts see few signs of Apple's popularity 
abating after the company announced yet another snazzy device, 
the iPhone. The new phone combines a digital entertainment 
player with cellphone capabilities.
  AOL MUSIC  AOL purchased Circuit City Stores Inc.'s CC.N online 
music service in 2005 to replace its previous service. As part 
of the latest deal, AOL will switch Circuit City's Music Now 
accounts to Napster in the next 60 days unless customers opt 
out.  AOL, the Internet division of Time Warner Inc. ( TWX.N ), 
also will promote Napster with links to its service throughout 
its free music site, AOL Music.  Napster will re-create customers' personal Music Now music 
libraries, including their playlists, the companies said. They 
also will keep Music Now's pricing tiers and transfer prepaid 
track credits that subscribers have in their accounts.  AOL separately has a deal with iTunes through which AOL 
members can charge iTunes purchased media to their AOL 
accounts.  The company last week raised its quarterly revenue forecast 
because of a better-than-expected increase in subscribers, 
which is expected to reach 566,000.  Napster shares rose 39 cents, or 10.2 percent, to $4.21 in 
early Nasdaq trading. Earlier in the session the shares touched 
$4.49.