-- Ford ahead of schedule on cost-cutting, CEO says
-- By  Poornima Gupta
-- Fri Jan 12, 2007 1:56pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/12/businesspro-ford-outlook-dc-idUSN1225619320070112

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co. ( F.N ), the struggling 
No. 2 U.S. automaker, is moving ahead of its own schedule for 
reducing costs, including plant closures and job cuts, Chief 
Executive Alan Mulally said on Friday. 

  "I would characterize that we are ahead of schedule on the 
restructuring," Mulally said in a presentation for financial 
analysts on Friday. "Our No. 1 priority is to restructure 
ourselves."  Ford, which lost $7 billion in the first nine months of 
2006 and saw sales drop for the year, is closing 16 plants by 
2012 and cutting nearly 45,000 jobs in a bid to return its 
North American automotive operations to profitability.  Mulally, speaking to analysts at Ford's Dearborn, Michigan, 
headquarters in a presentation monitored by Webcast, said the 
company had "a solid plan."  "Our mantra inside Ford is profitable growth for all," he 
said.  The CEO, who was hired away from aircraft maker Boeing Co. 
( BA.N ) in September, said the biggest cost-cutting opportunity 
for the car company was to reduce the number of vehicle 
platforms it uses around the world and increase the number of 
shared parts.  Mulally said Ford has been operating as six or seven 
independent regional units, a criticism often leveled by 
analysts who say the company has lagged rivals in unifying its 
product offerings and reducing costs by taking advantage of its 
global scale.  "So you reduce the platforms, reduce the number of 
drivetrains and start putting on the exterior ... that's 
tailored to the regions around the world," Mulally said  Larger U.S. rival General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ) is also 
changing the way it engineers cars under product czar Bob Lutz 
in a bid to cut costs. It is seen as ahead on globalizing its 
operations.  Mulally said Ford's recent borrowing program of more than 
$23 billion had included a cash "cushion."  Ford is set to spend $17 billion cash over the next three 
years in restructuring and its automotive operations.  Since Mulally took over from Ford family scion Bill Ford 
Jr., he has moved to streamline management. The company has 
also reached out to Toyota Motor Corp. ( 7203.T ), the 
increasingly dominant Japanese automaker.  Toyota had eagerly studied Ford in the 1930s when it was a 
maker of looms branching out to manufacture cars.  Mulally said Ford was still reviewing its global brand 
portfolio.  Asked about a possible sale of the company's money-losing 
Jaguar brand, he said: "We have not made any decisions but we 
are reviewing it."  Mulally also said the company continued to consolidate its 
4,300-strong Ford, Lincoln-Mercury U.S. dealer network.  "We have too many dealers, not enough through-put and 
profitability per dealer," he said. "It really manifests itself 
in the bigger metropolitan areas, where we really have Ford 
dealers competing against each other ."  Ford's overall U.S. sales slipped 13 percent in December 
and 8 percent for 2006, partly because of lower demand for the 
company's best-selling F-Series pickup trucks.  The company is aiming to hold its overall share of the U.S. 
light-vehicle market at 14 percent or more from, about 17.5 
percent.  Ford shares were up 9 cents at $7.86 in afternoon New York 
Stock Exchange trade.