-- U.S. judge OKs Delphi equity investment plan
-- 
-- Fri Jan 12, 2007 2:35pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/12/businesspro-delphi-bankruptcy-dc-idUSWEN214420070112

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - A U.S. bankruptcy judge on Friday 
approved auto parts maker Delphi Corp.'s DPHIQ.PK request to 
pursue a $3.4 billion equity investment offer led by Appaloosa 
Management LP that could pave the way for Delphi to emerge from 
bankruptcy this year. 

  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain of the Southern District 
of New York said the investment plan, supported by former 
parent General Motors Corp. ( GM.N ), "greatly facilitates the 
ability of debtors, GM and the union to negotiate remaining 
issues between them, knowing the path to an ultimate exit is 
relatively clear."  The plan would give Appaloosa, Cerberus Capital Management 
LP and their partners a stake comprising 30 percent to 70 
percent of Delphi, including preferred and common stock 
holdings and an equity rights offering, as well as some board 
control.  The plan is contingent on Delphi reaching agreement with 
the unions and GM, its biggest customer, by the end of January. 
Delphi argued it needs to reach a deal with its biggest union, 
the United Auto Workers, before the UAW begins master contract 
negotiations with automakers in the third quarter of this year.  A spokeswoman for GM, which was involved in the plan, said 
the company was not providing a timeline for an agreement with 
Delphi.  "We're committed to working through the plan to help Delphi 
resolve its bankruptcy in a way that's mutually beneficial to 
its constituents," Renee Rashid-Merem said.  "Obviously there is a lot of work that has to be done by a 
number of constituents, but the plan support agreement does 
outline our commitment to the process."  Delphi, which filed for bankruptcy in October 2005, this 
week said it would pursue the Appaloosa offer rather than a 
$4.7 billion bid put forward by hedge fund Highland Capital 
Management LP. Highland was among the objectors to the plan, 
which also included the equity committee and the U.S. Trustee.  Appaloosa and Highland are the two largest shareholders in 
Delphi.  "It sounds like a positive step, they can move forward, 
they can continue negotiating and in addition other parties can 
submit bids if they are interested," Morningstar analyst John 
Novak said.  Judge Drain said setting up a formal bidding process for 
Delphi would take the focus off those negotiations, adding that 
the company's ultimate value would be adversely affected if 
Delphi cannot reach a deal before those master contract talks.  Drain also approved a $100 million break-up fee, and other 
fees, in the agreement, though he said the window for a 
competing offer was closing. Drain said he believed "the 
investment agreement will establish a basis for other bids to 
be made and will attract additional bidding."  (Additional reporting by  David Bailey  and  Jui Chakravorty )