-- Chip giant Intel plans new China plant: sources
-- By  Sophie Taylor  and George Chen
-- Fri Jan 12, 2007 7:18am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/12/businesspro-intel-china-plant-dc-idUSSHA35333920070112

 

 SHANGHAI  (Reuters) - Intel Corp. ( INTC.O ), the world's top 
chipmaker, plans to invest in a major new plant in China to 
make leading-edge chips, its biggest investment in the country 
to date, two sources with knowledge of the plan said. 

  The plant will make 65-nanometre multi-core processors, the 
sources, who asked not to be identified, told Reuters. This 
would make it Intel's first such manufacturing facility in 
Asia.  Intel, which has invested about $1 billion in China to 
date, already has major test and assembly plants in Shanghai 
and the interior city of Chengdu.  One source said the investment in the new plant would total 
a "couple billion" dollars. Both sources declined to give 
further details of the project, such as the location and 
timing, although one said the investment could be announced in 
coming months.  Chip sophistication is measured by how small individual 
circuits are, with 65-nanometre considered one of the most 
advanced technologies in mass production today.  An Intel spokesman in Asia had no comment on Friday.  Intel is in the midst of a major overhaul, including price 
and job cuts and new product roll-outs, as it works to stave 
off recent advances by rival Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 
( AMD.N ), which has gained market share in the last few years.  Intel, which entered the China market in 1985, has over 
6,000 employees working on assembly, testing, research and 
development and sales and marketing in 16 cities there, 
according to the company's Web site.  Until now, most foreign chipmakers have used China for 
lower-technology test and assembly work, with few doing more 
sophisticated production in the market.  Intel said last month it would make China an independent 
sales and marketing region from the beginning of 2007, 
underlining the country's growing importance as the company's 
second-largest consumer market after the United States.  (Additional reporting by David Lin)