-- Wal-Mart ad account goes to Interpublic, Publicis cos
-- By  Michele Gershberg
-- Fri Jan 12, 2007 5:26pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/01/12/businesspro-walmart-advertising-dc-idUSN1228628820070112

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ), the 
world's largest retailer, said on Friday it selected agencies 
from Interpublic Group of Cos ( IPG.N ) and France's Publicis 
( PUBP.PA ) for its advertising work. 

  Shares of Interpublic surged as much as 4 percent with word 
of the decision that keeps the Wal-Mart account with the 
world's third-largest advertising group, even though it will be 
handled by a different agency within the company.  Wal-Mart put its estimated $580 million advertising account 
up for review in December, just days after the departure of a 
key marketing executive and barely one month after a previous 
review assigned the work to sister Interpublic agency DraftFCB 
and Aegis Group AGS.L media buyer Carat.  Interpublic's Martin Agency will take the lead in handling 
creative work on the account while Publicis agency MediaVest 
will be responsible for media planning and buying, Wal-Mart 
said in a statement on Friday.  Wal-Mart also named three agencies to focus on the black, 
Asian and Hispanic communities in the United States: GlobalHue, 
IW Group and Lopez Negrete.  Wal-Mart first put its advertising into review as it sought 
to shape a more polished image from the smiley-face logo and 
"Always Low Prices" slogan most associated with its image.  The company has added more upscale items to its shelves, 
from flat-panel televisions to trendier women's clothing, but 
the push has not been entirely successful so far.
  DEEP RETAIL EXPERIENCE  Wal-Mart Chief Marketing Officer John Fleming led the 
review and said the agencies had been chosen for their "deep 
retail experience, recognized creativity and an understanding 
of our customers."  The ad shake-up at Wal-Mart came as its marketing 
communications chief, Julie Roehm, left the company in early 
December, along with her vice president, Sean Womack. Her 
departure came amid speculation she faced scrutiny from the 
retail chain for accepting a costly dinner hosted by DraftFCB.  Roehm told Reuters at the time the entertaining was part of 
the normal course of business and denied any inappropriate 
activity.  Interpublic in particular was hit hard by the reshuffle as 
it tries to put to rest a series of client losses, earnings 
restatements and management changes.  When DraftFCB first won the account, the new business was 
trumpeted as a proof of a turnaround at the parent company, 
while its loss quickly pushed down Interpublic shares.  At the same time, some analysts are giving the company a 
more positive second glance, including Lehman Brothers which 
raised its rating on the share to overweight from underweight 
earlier this week.  Interpublic shares closed 33 cents higher at $13.37 on the 
New York Stock Exchange after rising as high as $13.80.