-- Watson Reports Quarterly Profit, Chao's Retirement
-- Catherine Larkin
-- 2007-08-02T20:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-08-02/watson-reports-quarterly-profit-chao-s-retirement-update4-.html

          
          
             Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , the
second-biggest U.S. maker of generic medicines, reported a
second-quarter profit and said its retiring chief executive
officer will be succeeded by a manager from a rival company.  
 Net income  was $36.4 million, or 33 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $15.6 million, or 15 cents, a year earlier after
costs to write down the value of two drugs, Watson said today in
a statement. Separately, the company said  Paul Bisaro , chief
operating officer of Barr Pharmaceuticals Inc., will take over
when Watson CEO and President Allen Chao retires on Sept. 4.  
 Earnings excluding certain items beat analysts' estimates
by seven cents, and shares jumped. Watson has struggled to
introduce new products after its $1.9 billion purchase of Andrx
Corp. in November, and analysts said a change in management may
help spark growth.  
 ``Change may be a good thing at the top, may be a good
thing for investors longer term,'' said Tim Chiang, an analyst
at FTN MidWest Securities Corp. in  New York , in a phone
interview today. Even so, ``there are a lot of risk factors at
Watson,'' said Chiang, who has a ``neutral'' rating on shares
and doesn't own any.  
 Shares of Watson, based in Corona,  California , rose $1.39,
or 4.6 percent, to $31.74 at 4:05 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained 40 percent in
the past 12 months,  outperforming  a 4.1 percent rise in the 14-
member Standard & Poor's 500 Pharmaceuticals Index.  
 Revenue Misses Estimates  
 Second-quarter revenue rose to $603 million from $510.4
million. The company was expected to bring in $616.5 million,
according to the average of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Purdue Pharma LP in February discontinued Watson's authorized
copies of the painkiller Oxycontin, which had been one of the
generic company's best-performing products.  
 Revenue from generic drugs fell 18 percent to $345.6
million, including $91.4 million from lower-cost copies of
brand-name birth-control pills. Sales of Watson's own brands,
which include products for anemia, and related revenue rose 23
percent to $110.7 million. Andrx's distribution business added
$146.6 million in revenue in the quarter.  
 The company said it expects 2007 profit excluding certain
items to be $1.25 to $1.30 a share, on revenue of about $2.5
billion. Watson on May 1 had forecast adjusted earnings of $1.20
to $1.30 a share, with $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion in revenue.  
 Succession Plans  
 Chao, 61, said in a conference call today that he had been
planning to retire within the next few years and that ``it is
the right time to turn over the reins'' to someone new. Bisaro,
46, is an ``ideal'' choice to lead Watson because he has 15
years of experience at  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Barr,
which also makes generic and brand-name medicines, Chao said.  
 Bisaro's position at Barr will be filled by Chief Executive
Officer Bruce Downey, Barr said in a separate statement.  
 Watson trails  Mylan Laboratories Inc. (MYL)  in annual revenue
among U.S. makers of generic drugs, according to data compiled
by research firm IMS Health Inc. Barr ranks fourth among U.S.
companies. The market for generics has expanded worldwide as
medical costs rise and patents on older blockbuster medicines
expire.  
 Watson executives have said for more than a year that they
plan to introduce new copies of Johnson & Johnson's Duragesic
pain patch and GlaxoSmithKline Plc's Flonase nasal spray. Andrx
hasn't been able to get any new drugs approved since September
2005, after regulators found deficiencies at a company plant.  
 Continuing problems at that plant, located in Davie,
 Florida , forced Watson to turn over its exclusive rights to
copies of AstraZeneca Plc's high blood pressure medicine Toprol
XL to Novartis AG's Sandoz unit in May, analysts said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Simison at   rsimison@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        