-- Dalian Mayor Says Nuclear Equipment Industry May Boost Growth
-- Lee Spears
-- 2009-04-22T04:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-04-22/dalian-mayor-says-nuclear-equipment-industry-may-boost-growth.html

          
          
             Xia Deren, mayor of the
northeastern Chinese port of Dalian, comments on the city’s
efforts to alleviate a slowdown in shipbuilding demand by
spending to build infrastructure and develop new industries.  
 Dalian is home to one of  China ’s biggest shipyards,
operated by China Shipbuilding Industry Corp., the country’s
second-biggest builder of vessels. Xia spoke in Mandarin in an
interview yesterday in the city government’s headquarters.  
 On new industries:  
 “Industries such as nuclear- and wind-power equipment will
soon experience large-scale expansion to offset slowing growth.  
 “Rolling stock demand from the central government railway
investment will also be good, and growth in these industries
will help to offset declines in the shipbuilding industry after
2012.  
 “This period is key. From now until 2012, we need to
adjust the structure of the shipbuilding industry; developing
high value-added products such as marine engineering equipment,
drilling platforms and high value-added vessels.”  
 On economic growth in Dalian:  
 “Last year, Dalian’s gross domestic product expanded 16.5
percent. In the first quarter of this year, GDP grew 11.1
percent, markedly slower than the same period a year earlier,
but we’re planning for the city to expand 14 percent this year.  
 “Over the next few quarters, as the country implements
measures to boost domestic consumption, we’re confident we can
achieve the 14 percent target.”  
 On stimulus investment in Dalian:  
 “There are already 38 projects that are receiving about 1
billion  yuan  ($143 million) of subsidies directly from the
central government. Dalian will match this central investment at
a rate of at least 1 to 1.  
 “Dalian has plans for more than 1,400 stimulus projects
including industrial and infrastructure, requiring 1.18 trillion
yuan of total investment. We plan to make about one third of
that investment, 330 billion yuan, this year, about a 30 percent
increase from last year.”  
 On the effects of falling exports:  
 “The main effect of the financial crisis on Dalian has
been  exports , which have slowed since November. More than 100
exporters have reduced or stopped production, leading to 8,000
layoffs in the first quarter.  
 “Our unemployment-rate target this year is 3.5 percent,
compared with 2.5 percent last year. We have more than 1.6
million workers in the city, and the rate right now is about 3
percent.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in Beijing at 
 lspears2@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at   cwteo@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        