-- EU Cuts Fees for Sending Text Messages From Abroad
-- Matthew Newman
-- 2009-04-22T11:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-04-22/eu-cuts-fees-for-sending-text-messages-from-abroad-update1-.html

          
          
             The European Union cut by 61
percent the cost of sending mobile-phone  text messages  when
customers travel abroad, marking the second time in two years
that operators have faced price regulation.  
 Under the legislation approved by the  European Parliament 
today, the retail charges for text messages, also known as
short-message services, are capped at 11 euro cents ($0.14),
down from the current average price of 28 euro cents in the 27-member EU. The rules are due to take effect on July 1.  
 “Today’s vote marks the definite end of the roaming rip-off in  Europe ,” said European Telecommunications Commissioner
Viviane Reding, who proposed the legislation last year, in an e-mailed statement. “Just in time for the summer holidays,
European citizens will now be able to see the single market
without borders on their phone bills.”  
 The EU capped prices for voice calls made abroad in June
2007, slicing revenue in the 8.5-billion-euro-a-year roaming
market. The new initiative revises the existing legislation on
voice calls to add text and data roaming. EU governments have
already signaled their support for the measure, making their
final approval a formality. The legislation is due to expire in
2012.  
 The 785-seat Parliament in Strasbourg,  France , also voted
to set a maximum wholesale fee of 1 euro per megabyte that
operators can charge each other for data services used by
customers when they travel to another country. The fee will go
down to 80 euro cents in July 2010 and 50 euro cents in July
2011.  
 Downloading Music  
 Mobile operators must ensure their clients are informed of
the charges that apply to downloading music and video files when
they go abroad. By March 2010, companies must allow customers to
set a “cut-off limit” that gives them the chance to specify a
maximum limit for these services once the bill reaches 50 euros.  
 That measure is designed to avoid so-called bill shocks,
the commission said. In one case, a German customer received a
bill for 46,000 euros for downloading a television show over a
roaming mobile line in France, the EU executive said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Newman  in Brussels at 
 Mnewman6@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        