-- RIM needs more time to bring filings up to date: lawyer
-- By Wojtek Dabrowski
-- Wed Mar 7, 2007 4:02pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/07/businesspro-rim-financials-dc-idUSN0726898820070307

 

 TORONTO  (Reuters) - Research In Motion Ltd. RIMM.O 
RIM.TO expects to be up to date with its regulatory filings 
shortly, but the BlackBerry maker needs more time as its 
accountants continue to grapple with a $250-million earnings 
restatement related to mistakes it made in granting stock 
options in the past. 


  "I would be reluctant to hazard a guess on the date, but 
it's very close to being completed," Robert Staley, a lawyer 
for RIM, told an Ontario Securities Commission hearing on 
Wednesday regarding the work that remains to be done.  "The company expects to be current in its filings very 
shortly."  He also said that if the company's filings aren't up to 
date by April 11, it expects to file preliminary fourth-quarter 
results, as it has done in the past.  RIM has delayed filing complete financials with regulators 
in Canada and the United States since it said in September it 
would voluntarily review historical stock option grants.  The review found numerous errors in how options were 
awarded, leading RIM to announce this week it would reduce 
previously reported earnings by $250 million. It had reviewed 
more than 3,200 grants between late 1996 and August 2006.  The review uncovered no intentional wrongdoing on behalf of 
those who administered the options program, but co-CEO Jim 
Balsillie has stepped down as chairman. He oversaw grants at 
the Waterloo, Ontario-based company in the past, RIM said 
earlier this week. He will remain as co-chief executive.  Although the review is finished, the company, its directors 
and external auditors "continue to do the work necessary to 
determine the accounting impact resulting from the...findings 
and to complete the restatement," Robert Wortzman, another 
lawyer for RIM, wrote in a letter submitted to the OSC dated 
Tuesday.  At Wednesday's hearing, the OSC said that if RIM isn't 
current in its filings by June 1, it would have to appear 
before the commission again on June 5.  RIM is one of more than 170 companies reviewing historical 
stock option grants. Others have been targeted as part of a 
broad investigation of grants by U.S. regulators.  Balsillie, along with other executives, directors and 
insiders, is barred from trading in RIM shares as part of an 
order imposed by the OSC while the company brings its filings 
up to date.  Meanwhile, the OSC continues to investigate options grants 
at RIM and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the 
company have been in contact regarding the issue.  It is not known whether either regulator will move against 
it or its executives with sanctions. The OSC has said RIM is 
co-operating.