-- Private equity poised for car sector breakthrough
-- By  Christiaan Hetzner
-- Wed Mar 7, 2007 12:01pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/07/businesspro-autoshow-equity-dc-idUSL1934194020070307

 

 GENEVA  (Reuters) - Drowning in cash and eager to find 
lucrative ventures returning 20 percent or more to yield-hungry 
investors, buyout firms could be poised to mount their first 
acquisition of a major global carmaker. 


  The Blackstone Group BG.UL may bid for Chrysler, the 
loss-making U.S. unit of DaimlerChrysler DCXGn.DE, a source 
familiar with the situation told Reuters on Tuesday.  Media reports say Cerberus Capital Management CBS.UL is 
also eyeing Detroit's third-largest automaker.  Companies being put on the block routinely arouse the 
interest of private equity houses, and record buyout deals 
approaching $50 billion have dominated the news of late, but 
firms like Blackstone, KKR KKR.UL and Permira PERM.UL have 
not yet taken on a major carmaker.  Industry executives, consultants and finance analysts say 
it could only be a matter of time before that changes, with 
buyout firms forecast to raise funds of some $500 billion this 
year.  "Private equity will likely bid for (Ford brand) Aston 
Martin, and with the reported interest from Blackstone in 
Chrysler, one can see that the trend is absolutely there," said 
KPMG leveraged finance expert Martina Ecker, who co-authored a 
study on the market's outlook in Germany.  Private equity firms specialize in acquiring undervalued, 
overcapitalized companies with ineffectual management. They 
restructure them to free up cash flow and reduce the debt used 
to buy it, then sell them at a far higher price.  At first glance, many carmakers saddled with overcapacity 
and excess labor fit at least part of this profile, yet a 
combination of factors has helped depress interest.  Stable shareholder structures, thanks often to family 
control, mean most are not on the block. Moreover, media-shy 
buyout firms usually avoid companies that have strong trade 
unions and a potentially high political profile, as in much of 
Europe, where national champions are closely guarded.  Volkswagen ( VOWG.DE ) is a classic example.
  NO ONE IS SAFE  VW improved automotive net cash flow by 4.4 billion euros 
in 2004 alone after years of failing to fund investments from 
its own operations. One of the few carmakers to still be rated 
above "BBB+" by credit agencies, it had plenty of restructuring 
potential since it wasn't earning anywhere near its cost of 
capital, with an after-tax return on investment of just 1.2 
percent.  Porsche ( PSHG_p.DE ) recognized the opportunity and bought a 
20 percent stake in VW in 2005, and profits have since surged. 
Porsche's chief executive has boasted that he stole a sweet 
deal from under the noses of financial investors.  "Absolutely, I am totally convinced of it," Wendelin 
Wiedeking said when asked by reporters at the Geneva auto show 
if VW had been the target of a private equity bid before 
Porsche stepped in to buy its stake.  He said there were still a couple of "bargains" among the 
global carmakers, but he thought buyout firms may have 
hesitated at investing in the industry due to a lack of auto 
experience.  "It's not comparable to many other industries. The rules of 
the market are different. Unfortunately, when you make a 
mistake, it costs a lot to fix it," he said.  The chief executive of Germany's Continental ( CONG.DE ) said 
taking over household names such as major global carmakers was 
difficult, but not impossible.  "No one is completely immune from private equity," Manfred 
Wennemer told Reuters on the sidelines of the auto show.  He should know. The world's fourth-largest tyremaker was 
the target of an aborted approach by a buyout consortium last 
year.  Yet even Wennemer acknowledged that his firm could have 
been better off in 1998 had it been controlled by private 
equity, after the firm expanded heavily into brakes and 
electronics, to the dismay of analysts.  "All analysts didn't comprehend it, to be quite frank. They 
couldn't see the vision that it makes sense ... What happened? 
our stock price crashed," he said.  "To carry out such a restructuring under the roof of 
private equity -- where people see, understand, know where 
things are headed -- is certainly better than to be in the 
public eye in such a phase and read every day what rubbish that 
is," he said.