-- L'Oreal Revenue Advances 12% on Luxury Cosmetics, Sales in Latin America
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-12T16:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/l-oreal-second-quarter-revenue-rises-13-on-perfume-sales-new-markets.html

          
          
             L’Oreal SA , the world’s largest
cosmetics maker, said second-quarter sales grew more than
12 percent, beating analyst estimates, as shoppers spent more
on luxury perfume and demand increased in new markets.  
 Revenue  advanced to 4.95 billion euros ($6.22 billion) from
4.4 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said
today in a statement after the market closed. The average
 estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was 4.83
billion euros. Excluding currency swings and acquisitions, sales
gained 5.2 percent.  
 “The momentum pickup in the discretionary Luxury and
Professional lines is being bolstered by a step up” in the
consumer-products division, driven by emerging markets,  Simon Marshall-Lockyer , an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in
London, wrote in a July 9 note. Marshall-Lockyer has a “buy”
recommendation on L’Oreal.  
 L’Oreal sales accelerated at the  fastest pace  in almost
three years in the first quarter as shoppers spent more on Yves
Saint-Laurent mascara and Lancome fragrances, and distributors
ended inventory cuts. Growth continued in the second quarter,
helped by the new Inoa hair colorant, a “renaissance” at Yves
Saint-Laurent and strong growth at Maybelline, Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Paul Agon said in today’s statement.  
 “These results bear out our major strategic choices and
mean that we can tackle the second half with confidence,” Agon
said.  
 L’Oreal  shares fell 71 cents, or 0.9 percent, to 82.09
euros in Paris. The stock has gained 5.2 percent this year,
giving the company a market value of 49.2 billion euros.  
 Divisional Sales  
 Sales at L’Oreal’s luxury division, whose products include
 Giorgio Armani  scents and Shu Uemura cleansing oils, climbed 7.6
percent, excluding currency moves and acquisitions. Sales at the
consumer-products division, the French company’s largest source
of revenue, gained 4.1 percent on the same basis. Professional
products sales increased 4.7 percent, while active cosmetics
sales grew 6.7 percent.  The Body Shop  sales fell 0.1 percent.  
 Revenue, excluding currency swings and acquisitions, gained
1.1 percent in western Europe, 4.2 percent in North America and
11 percent in new markets, led by Latin America, where sales
jumped 18 percent. Sales grew 11 percent in the Asia Pacific
region, where the cosmetics maker aims to reach 1 billion euros
in revenue this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        