-- `Unloved' Greek Stocks Face `Slog' to Ease Investors' Concerns, HSBC Says
-- Maria Petrakis
-- 2010-07-12T09:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/-unloved-greek-stocks-face-slog-to-ease-investors-concerns-hsbc-says.html

          
          
             Greek stocks  may remain “unloved”
until the country manages to ease investors’ concerns that it
will be forced to restructure its debt, HSBC Holdings Plc
analysts said.  
 “Greek equities are likely to remain unloved until country
credibility is restored,” a team of analysts led by Athens-
based  Joanna Telioudi  wrote in a report today. “Although Greece
has got off to a rather strong start, the overall process of
adjustment is likely to prove a multi-year slog with many turns
along the way.” The risk of debt restructuring validates low
valuations and will cap potential rallies, the report said.  
 Greece’s benchmark  ASE Index  is the worst-performing
western European gauge so far this year, losing 30 percent amid
concern that Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won’t be able to
reduce the European Union’s second-biggest budget deficit. A 110
billion-euro ($138 billion) EU and International Monetary Fund
package of emergency loans and accompanying austerity measures
are driving down earnings prospects for Greek companies.  
 “The market’s risk/reward profile will improve
dramatically should confidence in the government action start to
recover,” HSBC said. Banks would heavily outperform in price
rallies, it said.  
 HSBC said “key developments” ahead for Greek equities
include the depth of the recession in the second half of 2010
and the first half of 2011, when most tax increases and spending
cuts kick in, the level of inflation “stickiness,” and the
timing and quality of government statistics.  
 Bank of Cyprus Pcl , the biggest lender on the eastern
Mediterranean island, was named as HSBC’s preferred Greek bank
stock for its ability to weather the Greek macroeconomic
environment because it has lower exposure to the Greek market.
Other top picks for the second half of the year are  Coca-Cola
Hellenic Bottling Co. SA , the world’s second-biggest bottler of
Coke drinks, where Greek sales are about 8 percent of total
company volume,  Hellenic Exchanges SA ,  Metka SA  and  Opap SA .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        