-- Aabar Offers Shareholders 1.45 Dirhams a Share to Delist From Abu Dhabi
-- Vivian Salama
-- 2010-07-12T12:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/aabar-offers-shareholders-1-45-dirhams-a-share-to-delist-from-abu-dhabi.html

          
          
             Aabar Investments  PJSC, the largest
shareholders in German carmaker  Daimler AG , offered stake
holders 1.45 dirhams (40 cents) a share as the Abu Dhabi-based
company prepares to delist from the emirate’s bourse.  
 The offer is valid until Aug. 1, according to a company
statement to the Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange today. Aabar
received approval from the market regulator today to postpone to
Aug. 8 a shareholder meeting set for July 26 to approve a
conversion into a private joint-stock company.  
 “It’s an exit offer, which is better than no offer,” said
 Akram Annous , deputy fund manager at Al Mal Capital PSC. “If
the market was valuing the company differently, then they
probably wouldn’t be seeking to delist.”  
 Aabar’s share price is down 31 percent this year, and has
declined almost 13 percent since the company indicated on June
21 it will look to delist. The stock declined 1.4 percent today
to 1.43 dirhams. The Abu Dhabi index is down 7.9 percent.  
 “Aabar is going private because they probably now view
their listing as nothing more than a distraction to their
business,” Annous said. “They don’t need to be public to fund
their acquisitions, and the market is not offering anything near
a reasonable multiple for them to use their listed shares to
make acquisitions.”  
 International Petroleum Investment Co., the Abu Dhabi
state-owned investor, holds a majority stake in Aabar, according
to Bloomberg data. The company announced a plan in April to sell
up to 7.35 billion dirhams in convertible bonds to IPIC.  
 Aabar paid $2.7 billion in 2009 for a 9.1 percent stake in
Daimler, the world’s second-biggest luxury carmaker. Aabar last
month bought a 4.99 percent stake in Italy’s biggest bank
UniCredit SpA valued at $2.2 billion.  
 Aabar is borrowing $2 billion to refinance debt and for
acquisitions, a banker familiar with the plan said July 4. The
company had total long-term liabilities of 19.6 billion dirhams
at the end of March, according to Bloomberg data.  
 For Related News and Information:  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vivian Salama  in Abu Dhabi 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        