-- AB InBev's Modelo Win May Open Bid for the Corona Maker
-- Clementine Fletcher
-- 2010-07-12T14:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/ab-inbev-wins-contest-over-modelo-stake-reviving-speculation-of-takeover.html

          
          
             Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the world’s
largest brewer, said it won a dispute over its ownership of a 50
percent stake in  Grupo Modelo SAB , reigniting speculation that
it may bid for the rest of the Mexican beermaker.  
 An arbitration panel ruled that the 2008 merger of InBev NV
and Anheuser-Busch Cos. didn’t violate an agreement over the
transfer of the Budweiser maker’s stake in Modelo, Leuven,
Belgium-based AB InBev said in an e-mailed  statement  today. The
panel awarded no damages or other remedies, the brewer said.  
 Modelo, Mexico’s largest beermaker, had sought $2.5 billion
in damages in a claim that originally sought to prevent
Anheuser-Busch from selling its stake to InBev as part of the
$52 billion merger that led to AB InBev’s creation. The panel’s
ruling means AB InBev can keep the stake and make plans to
acquire the maker of Corona, Evolution Securities Ltd. analyst
 Andrew Holland  said.  
 “My guess is that AB InBev will be keen to sit down with
the controlling shareholders of Modelo to discuss an
acquisition,” Holland said. “InBev would be keen to buy all of
Modelo. It’s an attractive company in an attractive market.”  
 The ruling doesn’t change Modelo’s corporate structure or
the way the Mexican brewer is operated,  Jennifer Shelley , a
Modelo spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. Any action
regarding ownership of Modelo is a decision for the controlling
shareholders, she said.  
 Mexican families including the family of Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Carlos Fernandez  own a majority of a holding
company that controls Modelo.  
 ‘No Decision’  
 “They are very pleased with how the company is doing,”
Shelley said referring to controlling shareholders. “That’s
their decision to make. There’s no decision that’s been taken in
this respect.”  
 AB InBev spokeswoman  Karen Couck  declined to comment on the
possibility of a future transaction with Modelo.  
 AB InBev  rose  as much as 0.9 percent in Brussels trading
and was up 30 cents to 41.51 euros as of 4:05 p.m. local time.
Modelo rose 59 centavos, or 0.9 percent, to 64.34 pesos in
Mexico City.  
 “This is definitely a positive,” said  Melissa Earlam , a
London-based analyst at UBS AG. “It opens up at least the
speculation of a full buyout of Modelo by AB InBev. I cannot see
the company agreeing to sell their stake back to Modelo.”  
 Modelo Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Fernandez  said in
2008 that his company was interested in buying back Anheuser-
Busch’s non-controlling stake, which the Budweiser-maker bought
in the 1990s. AB InBev may try to buy the remaining stake in
Modelo to expand in Mexico and cut costs, analysts have said.  
 Mexican Market  
 “The combination of Anheuser-Busch and InBev did not
violate the investment agreement between entities of Anheuser-
Busch and Grupo Modelo,” AB InBev said in the statement.  
 Modelo is an attractive company because of its dominance in
the Mexican market, large exports to the U.S., new breweries
with excess capacity and zero debt, Alan Alanis, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York, wrote in a report today.  
 “After today’s arbitration resolution, we believe ABI will
stay as a Modelo shareholder,” Alanis said in the report. “And
even though Modelo controlling shareholders have never indicated
they would like to sell, ABI may gradually look to increase its
role and ownership in this company.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Anheuser-Busch InBev NV CEO Carlos Brito. Photographer: Jock Fistick/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bottles of Anheuser-Busch InBev's Budweiser beer are displayed at a bar. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko JR/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
