-- Abu Dhabi May Choose Partner This Year for $10 Billion Shah Gas Project
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-07-12T11:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/abu-dhabi-may-choose-partner-this-year-for-10-billion-shah-gas-project.html

          
          
             Abu Dhabi, holder of most of the oil
reserves in the United Arab Emirates, may select a partner to
help develop the $10 billion Shah natural gas project this year
after  ConocoPhillips  pulled out.  
 “Normally these things take a long time, from showing
interest, to discussing terms and conditions,” said Saif Ahmed
al-Ghafli, chief executive officer of Abu Dhabi Gas Development
Co. “We’re not going to hold things back, we awarded contracts,
we’re committed,” he told reporters today in Abu Dhabi.  
 Abu Dhabi Gas, owned by Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., is
pressing ahead after  ConocoPhillips  withdrew in April. The
emirate is seeking to develop reserves of sour, or high-sulfur,
gas to meet soaring domestic power consumption. The U.A.E.
imports gas from Qatar and is developing nuclear power to meet
domestic energy demand, which is expected to double by 2020,
according to government studies.  
 The company today signed four out of five packages awarded
in April worth 20.4 billion dirhams ($5.55 billion) for the
construction of facilities and pipelines at Shah.  Saipem SpA 
signed two of three contracts totaling more than $3.5 billion,
while one was signed by Samsung Engineering Co. and another
jointly by Tecnicas Reunidas SA and Punj Lloyd Ltd.  
 Shah is technically challenging because hydrogen sulfide, a
toxic compound, must be separated from the gas. The sulfur must
be converted into a solid and transported 250 kilometers (155
miles) to the coast for loading on ships and exported.  
 Previous Bidders  
 Abu Dhabi chose ConocoPhillips for the project in July 2008
after considering competing bids from Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  among others. Shell’s interest in the project
had waned since its initial bid, Chief Financial Officer  Simon Henry  told investors on a conference call April 28.  
 “My expectation is that whoever was in the last round
would come back and talk to Adnoc,” al-Ghafli said.  
 The project, scheduled for completion by the third quarter
of 2014, targets processing 1 billion cubic feet of sour gas
into 540 million cubic feet a day of fuel. It may also process
4,400 tons a day of natural-gas liquids, 35,000 barrels a day of
condensates and 9,200 tons a day of sulfur.  
 Adnoc aims to ship the sulfur by rail to the Abu Dhabi
coast, where it can be shipped for use as a building material or
ingredient in fertilizer. The company abandoned a plan to build
a pipeline to the coast after deeming the technology too
demanding and costly.  
 Adnoc is discussing terms and conditions with Union Railway
Co., which will build the U.A.E.’s first train service, al-
Ghafli said. “Union would build it, Adnoc would pay a fee for
it. All we ask is that it is delivered when we need it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ayesha Daya  in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        