-- Lacker Says Any Consideration of Fed Interest-Rate Easing Is `Very' Remote
-- Joshua Zumbrun
-- 2010-07-12T19:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/lacker-says-any-consideration-of-fed-interest-rate-easing-is-very-remote.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said any consideration of further
monetary easing by U.S. central bankers “is very far away.”  
 “It would take a very substantial, unanticipated adverse
shock” for further steps at stimulus to be appropriate, Lacker
told reporters today in Richmond. “Consideration of further
easing steps is very far away.”  
 Economists pushed back their forecasts for an interest-rate
increase after reports showed private payrolls in June grew less
than anticipated and manufacturing cooled.  Paul Krugman , the
Nobel-prize winning Princeton University economist, wrote in a
column in the New York Times today that the Fed should be
“doing all it can do” to prevent deflation.  
 Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and fellow policy makers last
month affirmed a pledge to hold the  benchmark interest rate 
close to zero for an “extended period” and said “tight
credit” is restraining consumer spending.  
 “I’m comfortable with rates where they are now,” Lacker,
who doesn’t vote on rate decisions this year, said today at the
opening of an exhibit at the Richmond Fed on the history of the
central bank. “You have some surges, some slower periods. It’s
just going to be a choppy recovery.”  
 Separately, Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke  said in an
interview with CNBC that the central bank is “in the right
place” on its monetary policy and that she sees a “moderate
recovery” taking place.  
 Treasuries were little changed today, with the yield on the
10-year note rising to 3.06 percent at 3:35 p.m. in New York
from 3.05 percent late yesterday.  
 Small Business Lending  
 Bernanke, speaking today at a Fed-hosted conference in
Washington on small-business lending where Duke also appeared,
said small firms are having a tough time getting the loans they
need to expand or stay afloat and keep the U.S. recovery going.  
 “Making credit accessible to sound small businesses is
crucial to our economic recovery and so should be front and
center among our current policy challenges,” said Bernanke, 56.
“Consistent with maintaining appropriately prudent standards,
lenders should do all they can to meet the needs of creditworthy
borrowers.”  
 Investors’ expectations for a Fed rate increase have fallen
since the June meeting of policy makers. Investors are
discounting about 31 basis points of tightening over the next 12
months, a decline from about 42 basis points on June 22, the
first day of a two-day Fed meeting, according to data calculated
by Credit Suisse using the overnight index swap curve.  
 Growth Outlook  
 Growth in the world’s largest economy will average 2.8
percent from the current quarter through the second quarter of
2011, according to the median estimate of 52 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News from July 1 to July 8, down 0.1 percentage
point from last month.  
 “I think what’s been happening is some market participants
are over reacting to a couple of reports that have been a little
bit below what people expected,” Lacker said. “We had some
reports better than expected a couple of months ago. I think
this is going to be a recovery that’s like that over time.”  
 The Labor Department reported this month that private
employers  added 83,000 jobs  in June, less than the 110,000
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Homebuilders
started building dwellings at the slowest pace of the year in
May, after the expiration of a housing tax credit. Housing
starts fell 10 percent in May to a 593,000 annual pace.  
 ‘Doing Damage’  
 “I don’t expect a dramatic worsening” in housing, Lacker
said. “Housing is such a small portion of the economy now it’s
a little less capable of doing damage. I think we can withstand
some shocks to housing and some fluctuations to housing.”  
 Lacker, 54, said he expects the rate of inflation to begin
to increase toward the end of 2010.  
 “At the beginning of the year we were getting some low
inflation numbers, but inflation expectation measures remained
pretty stable,” Lacker said.  
 “Lately the core inflation numbers have firmed up a bit.
I think what we’re most likely to see is inflation gravitating
back to the 1.5 to 2 percent range,” Lacker said, adding that
the risk of deflation, or a broad-based decline in prices, is
low.  
 Lacker said he is skeptical the Fed’s Term Deposit Facility
will be an effective tool for removing more than $1 trillion in
excess reserves in the banking system. The Fed has held two
tests of the program, which is analogous to a certificate of
deposit, and will announce the results of a third test tomorrow.  
 “It’s not clear a term deposit facility is going to really
meaningfully tighten monetary conditions,” Lacker said. “Asset
sales are the proven effective way to drain reserves, to drain
monetary assets.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Jeffrey Lacker, President Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond  
                       
                         
                           Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Jeffrey Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Jeffrey Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for the global economy and financial markets.
     Naeimi, speaking from Sydney, also discusses prospects for second-quarter corporate earnings in the U.S. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
