-- Lagardere Said to Hire Banks for Canal Plus France Initial Offer This Year
-- Jacqueline Simmons
-- 2010-07-12T16:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/lagardere-said-to-target-fourth-quarter-for-pay-tv-operator-canal-plus-ipo.html

          
          
             Lagardere SCA  is targeting the
fourth quarter for an initial sale of its shares in pay-TV
operator  Canal Plus France  and has hired banks to manage the
transaction, said two people with direct knowledge of the plan.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. and BNP Paribas SA have been selected
to work with Lagardere on the initial public offering, said the
people, who declined to be named because talks are private.
Lagardere said July 2 it would begin preparing for an IPO of the
20 percent stake after talks failed to sell it to  Vivendi SA ,
which owns the rest of the largest French pay-TV company.  
 Lagardere may be considering a Canal Plus IPO to bring
Vivendi back to the negotiations, analysts said.  Vivendi  balked
at an asking price of about 1.35 billion euros ($1.7 billion),
two people familiar with the matter said July 2.  
 “I think it is a negotiating tactic, but they haven’t
agreed on price and these things can drag on,”  Alexander Wisch ,
an analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research, said of the
IPO. “One way to get a price is to let the market decide.”  
 Antoine Lefort , a Vivendi spokesman in Paris, declined to
comment. Lagardere’s spokespeople didn’t return a call seeking
comment.  
 Lagardere shares  fell 0.7 percent to 25.84 euros in Paris
trading, while Vivendi rose 0.8 percent to 17.48 euros.  
 Full Control  
 Vivendi is looking to gain full control of Canal Plus as
part of a strategy to consolidate shareholdings in its French
units. On Feb. 1, it bought M6-Metropole Television’s 5.1
percent stake in the pay-TV operator for 384.2 million euros.  
 Analysts’ estimates of the value of the 20 percent Canal
Plus France stake range from Citigroup’s 850 million euros to
Credit Suisse’s 1.4 billion euros.  
 The IPO decision is in line with terms of a shareholder
accord signed in January 2007, Lagardere said in a July 2
statement. According to the pact, Vivendi has the right to pre-
empt a sale of the stake by Lagardere, which can then either
begin an IPO or defer the process for another year. The owner of
Elle magazine and Paris Match has until 2014 to sell.  
 Vivendi and Lagardere, both based in Paris, are trying to
simplify their corporate structures. In addition to Canal Plus,
Vivendi is considering buying the 44 percent stake in its SFR
mobile phone unit held by  Vodafone Group Plc , while Lagardere
may sell its 7.5 percent stake in  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co.   
 In May Lagardere announced a push into sports marketing
that would see it compete directly with IMG Worldwide Inc., the
sports group controlled by New York private equity firm
Forstmann Little & Co. The French company wants to become a
“world leader in the sports market,” Chief Executive Officer
 Arnaud Lagardere  said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net 
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        