-- Thailand May Weigh Interest-Rate Increase as Political Violence Subsides
-- Michael Munoz
-- 2010-07-13T04:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/thailand-may-weigh-interest-rate-increase-as-political-violence-subsides.html

          
          
             Thailand will consider tomorrow
whether to raise its benchmark interest rate for the first time
in almost two years after deadly political protests ended last
quarter without derailing the economy.  
 Thirteen of the 19 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News
predict the Bank of Thailand will increase its  one-day bond
repurchase rate  to 1.5 percent from 1.25 percent, while the rest
expect no change. The decision is due to be announced at 2:30
p.m. in Bangkok tomorrow.  
 Thai  consumer confidence  rose for the second straight month
in June even after the nation’s worst political violence in
almost two decades killed 89 people in April and May. Governor
 Tarisa Watanagase  said last week the central bank will take
“preemptive” steps to control inflation, as counterparts from
Malaysia to Taiwan boost borrowing costs amid an Asian rebound.  
 “It would be best for a tightening cycle to start sooner
rather than later,” said  Sukhy Ubhi , an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London. “Thailand’s economy started to
recover strongly late last year and the hit from the recent
political turmoil has not been severe.”  
 Thailand’s interest-rate swaps and bond yields have climbed
as investors boosted bets the central bank will increase
borrowing costs over the next 12 months. The one-year onshore
swap rate rose 24.5 basis points this month to 1.625 percent
today. The yield on the three-year debt climbed 30 basis points
in July to 2.73 percent yesterday, according to the Thai Bond
Market Association. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Not Surprised  
 “I would not be surprised if they decide it’s now an
appropriate” time to raise the policy rate, Finance Minister
 Korn Chatikavanij  said in an interview in the South Korean city
of Daejeon today. “The rates are very low. A small pickup in
rates is not going to have much impact” on the economy, the
minister said.  
 Thailand’s $272 billion economy grew 12 percent in the
first three months of this year, the most since 1995, as the
global recovery spurred overseas orders.  
 Exports  rose 42.5 percent in May, the biggest gain since
July 2008. Automakers  Ford Motor Co.,  General Motors Co. and
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. announced plans to build new factories
or expand production in Thailand in the past month.  
 Emergency Rule  
 External risks including Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis,
which has led to government austerity measures that are
threatening demand for Asia’s goods, are unlikely to “escalate
anytime soon into a major threat which triggers a slump in
exports,” Ubhi said.  
 Overseas sales helped Thailand weather two months of anti-
government protests that hurt tourism and disrupted
 manufacturing  at some factories. The Cabinet on July 6 extended
emergency rule in a quarter of the country, including Bangkok,
for another three months after using troops to disperse
opposition protesters in May.  
 Korn said the political unrest “was very concentrated in
specific areas” and didn’t affect manufacturing or exports
much.  
 The finance ministry raised its forecast for Thailand’s
gross domestic product growth this year to as much as 6 percent
in June. Last week, Tarisa said the nation has “less need now”
for low interest rates. Deputy Governor  Bandid Nijathaworn  said
July 2 that policy rate normalization will be “back on the
agenda.”  
 Malaysia’s Move  
 The central bank has kept its benchmark rate at the lowest
level since July 2004 in the past nine meetings.  Malaysia  last
week raised its overnight policy rate for a third time this year
to 2.75 percent. South Korea, Taiwan and India have also
increased borrowing costs as their economies strengthened.  
 Still,  Prasarn Trairatvorakul , chosen by the government to
replace Tarisa in October as Bank of Thailand chief, said July 7
the central bank may start to raise the benchmark in August
rather than this month, and bring the rate “gradually” to 2
percent by the end of the year.  
 There will probably be “no significant change” in the
nation’s monetary policy after Prasarn takes office, Korn said.  
 Thailand’s  consumer price  gains slowed to 3.3 percent in
June, while  core inflation , which excludes fresh food and fuel,
cooled to 1.1 percent, staying below the central bank’s target
of less than 3 percent. The bank has said state subsidies for
transport and fuel were masking price increases, and
inflationary pressure may rise in the second half of the year as
the economy recovers.  
 “It has been a close call whether or not to expect a rate
hike on July 14,” said  David Cohen , an economist at Action
Economics in Singapore. “But after the newly-named governor was
quoted saying that he expected the first hike to come in August,
I guess I am inclined to believe him.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Suttinee Yuvejwattana  in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Munoz  in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        