-- Thailand's Swap Forwards Overprice Rate-Increase Prospects, Barclays Says
-- David Yong
-- 2010-07-12T05:24:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/thailand-s-swap-forwards-overprice-rate-increase-prospects-barclays-says.html

          
          
             Investors may profit from receiving
Thailand’s one-year non-deliverable forward swap starting in 12
months because the rate overestimates the potential increase in
local borrowing costs, Barclays Capital Plc said.  
 The Bank of Thailand will probably raise its benchmark
interest rate when policy makers meet on July 14, joining policy
makers in South Korea and  Malaysia  who acted last week, the U.K.
bank said. Any increase in the swap before the meeting will
create a better entry level for investors, the bank said.  
 “We think the market is pricing in approximately 70 basis
points of hikes to come through in six months,”  Rahul Bajoria ,
a Singapore-based economist at Barclays said in an interview.
“Our forecast is for 50 basis points of hikes. As we get closer
to the policy meeting, there’s a chance of the market pricing in
more than what we are currently thinking.”  
 Barclays recommended investors receive non-deliverable one-
year baht interest payments starting in 12 months when the rate
reaches 2.95 percent from the current 2.8 percent, Bajoria said.
It forecasts a 30 basis points profit in three months, according
to a July 9 research note.  
 In swap contracts, two parties exchange a fixed rate for a
floating payment that varies in accordance with a benchmark
interest rate. In forward swap contracts, investors agree to
start exchanging the rates after a certain period, for a set
number of months or years.  
 Quarter Point  
 Bank of Thailand policy makers will increase the benchmark
interest rate to 1.5 percent from the current 1.25 percent on
July 14, according to 11 of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The rate may increase to 1.75 percent at the end of this year,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey of economists.  
 Thailand may raise borrowing costs this year amid concern
inflation will accelerate, central bank Governor  Tarisa Watanagase  said on July 6. Consumer prices rose 3.3 percent in
June from a year earlier after gaining 3.5 percent the previous
month, the government said on July 1.  
 A rebound in exports helped Thailand’s $272 billion economy,
the second-largest in Southeast Asia after Indonesia, expand 12
percent last quarter from a year earlier, the most since 1995.  
 “The recovery in Thailand has predominantly been export-
driven and we do not expect a very strong pick up in domestic
demand,” Bajoria said. “So, we are unlikely to see very strong
rate hikes coming through over the course of six to 12 months.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Yong  in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        