-- Alcoa Earnings Won't Recover for Years, Analysts Say
-- Edmond Lococo
-- 2010-07-12T16:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/alcoa-profit-showing-recovery-to-pre-lehman-brothers-level-will-take-years.html

          
          
             Alcoa Inc. ’s second-quarter profit
is likely to show that the largest U.S. aluminum producer’s
earnings won’t recover to pre-financial crisis levels until
after 2012, analysts say.  
 “The story of the second quarter is trying to establish
what is a normal baseline for Alcoa’s earnings,” said  Jorge Beristain , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Greenwich,
Connecticut, who advises  holding  the shares.  
 The company will today post earnings excluding one-time
items of 11 cents a share, according to the average estimate of
17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Quarterly earnings won’t
exceed 44 cents through 2012, estimates show. In the 18 months
through June 2008, before commodity and stock markets tumbled
and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy, they
averaged 62 cents a share.  
 Alcoa, led by Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Kleinfeld , gets
about half its revenue in the U.S., where housing, manufacturing
and employment data indicate the economy is more vulnerable to
slower growth than previously projected. The company is the
worst performer so far this year on the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , the first time that’s happened since 1998, after
aluminum prices fell 10 percent.  
 Stocks Slide  
 Alcoa  fell 14 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $10.80 at 12:27
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
had declined 32 percent this year before today. Russia’s  United
Co. Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum maker, had dropped 34
percent since its initial offering in Hong Kong in January.
 Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , China’s biggest producer, had slid
29 percent in Hong Kong this year before today.  
 Alcoa is the first company in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to report second-quarter earnings. The New York-based
producer and other commodities companies may see profit growth
of 93 percent in the quarter and 46 percent in the three months
through September, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Alcoa forecasts 6 percent annual growth in global aluminum
demand over the next decade, which will provide “strong
earnings opportunities” for its alumina, primary metals, rolled
products and engineered-products units, said  Kevin Lowery , a
company spokesman.  
 “The drivers for the industry are there,” Lowery said.
“The world is growing and people are looking for more
sustainable products, which all plays to Alcoa’s and aluminum’s
strengths.”  
 U.S. Economy  
 The U.S. accounted for 52 percent of Alcoa’s sales in 2009.
The country’s economy will have average growth of 2.8 percent
from the current quarter through the second quarter of 2011,
according to the median estimate of 52 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg from July 1 to July 8, down 0.1 percentage point from
last month.  
 John Stephenson , who helps manage C$1.65 billion ($1.6
billion) at First Asset Investment Management in Toronto, said
he has “skinnied up a little bit” on Alcoa shares because the
outlook has dimmed.  
 “The market is still looking for stronger growth and
that’s what is going to elude them,” Stephenson said. “They
are doing all the right things, and you will want to own Alcoa
when the data points pick up, but right now the data points are
in decline.”  
 Prices Decline  
 Aluminum for immediate delivery on the London Metal
Exchange averaged $2,092 a metric ton in the second quarter, 3.5
percent lower than in the first. The cash aluminum price has
slumped 40 percent since reaching a record on July 14, 2008.
Alcoa has idled 20 percent of its aluminum-smelting capacity
amid excess global production and soaring inventories.  
 Alcoa is due to release earnings after the close of the
market.  CSX Corp. , the third-biggest U.S. rail hauler, is also
scheduled to release results today.  
 With concern mounting that the economic recovery will
falter, investors will be more focused on Alcoa’s third-quarter
forecast than the second-quarter results, said  Charles Bradford ,
a partner at New York-based consultants Affiliated Research
Group LLC.  
 “If the third quarter turns out to be as bad as it may be,
I don’t think the stock is going to go any place in the near
term,” Bradford said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edmond Lococo  in Boston at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alcoa Chief Executive Officer Klaus Kleinfeld. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
