-- Canadian Stocks Rise on Alcoa Profits, Imports; Research In Motion Surges
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-07-13T20:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/alimentation-couche-tard-h-r-reit-magma-energy-canadian-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose after Alcoa Inc.
began the earnings-reporting season with profit that topped the
average analyst estimate and the U.S. and Canada reported
increases in imports.  
 Cenovus Energy Inc., the oil company spun off from EnCana
Corp. in December, advanced 2.7 percent as crude futures rallied
to a two-week high. Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. soared 14 percent after
saying it will rescind a covenant with Rio Tinto Group that
prevents it from issuing more than 5 percent of its common
shares to other investors. BlackBerry maker Research In Motion
Ltd. gained 3 percent amid speculation rival Apple Inc. will
recall its latest iPhone.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 107.08
points, or 0.9 percent, to a two-week high of 11,672.84.  
 “The results from Alcoa, no doubt the numbers were a lot
better than expected,” said  Stephen Gauthier , who helps manage
C$500 million ($486 million) as a money manager at Fin-XO
Securities in Montreal. “It’s only one player, but it’s a
pretty good start. Expectations are quite high for earnings.”  
 The S&P/TSX gained 3.3 percent  last week , the most since
October, after tumbling 4.4 percent the week before. Canadian
shares gained as the country reported job growth five times the
median economist estimate and France’s Total SA agreed to buy
oil sands developer UTS Energy Corp. The index slipped less than
0.1 percent yesterday.  
 Earnings Season  
 Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported  second-
quarter profit  that beat the average of 17 analyst estimates by
14 percent, excluding certain items, yesterday. The company,
whose results unofficially mark the start of the earnings-
reporting season in the U.S., said it expects aluminum sales for
automotive uses to advance 3 percent to 8 percent this year.  
 Second-quarter earnings for S&P/TSX materials and energy
stocks are forecast to increase 48 percent and 33 percent,
respectively, from last year, according to National Bank of
Canada. Those two industries make up 46 percent of Canadian
stocks by market value.  
 Analysts estimate per share profit excluding some items at
Teck Resources Ltd., the S&P/TSX company whose share price  most
closely tracks  Alcoa’s, will jump 90 percent from last year,
according to Bloomberg data. The shares rose 1.3 percent to
C$34.89.  
 Shares of Canada’s largest auto-parts makers surged. Magna
International Inc., the country’s biggest auto-industry company,
gained 4.1 percent to C$73.87, while Linamar Corp. advanced 6.4
percent to C$19.05.  
 Canada and the U.S. each reported unexpected increases in
trade deficits for May today due to higher demand for foreign
goods.  Canada’s deficit  of C$503 million was the largest in
eight months, Statistics Canada said.  
 Extends Gain  
 RIM, Canada’s largest technology company, rallied 3 percent
to C$57.53, stretching its three-day gain to 11 percent.  
 A RIM tablet is in the works that will support Adobe
Systems Inc.’s Flash technology, giving it an advantage over
Apple’s iPad, BetaNews reported, citing “a source close to
RIM.” Yesterday, Consumer Reports magazine said it isn’t
recommending the iPhone 4 due to a hardware flaw that causes
signal quality to degrade.  
 The  S&P/TSX Banks Index  climbed for a sixth day, the
longest streak since Feb. 19. Royal Bank of Canada, the
country’s biggest bank, increased 1 percent to C$54.88. Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, Canada’s fifth-largest, climbed 2.1
percent to C$69.60. Bank of Nova Scotia, the No. 3 bank by
assets, rose 2.8 percent to C$52, contributing the most to the
S&P/TSX Composite’s gain.  
 Ivanhoe Mines, which is developing the Oyu Tolgoi copper
mine with Rio Tinto, surged 14 percent, the most in 10 months,
to C$17.07. Rio Tinto’s representative on Ivanhoe Mines’ board
of directors resigned yesterday in the dispute which began with
Ivanhoe Mines’ adoption of a shareholders’ rights plan.  
 Oil Futures  
 An index of  S&P/TSX energy stocks  advanced for a sixth day
as oil futures increased 2.9 percent.  
 Talisman Energy Inc., an oil and gas producer with
operations in North America, the North Sea and Indonesia, rose
2.2 percent to C$16.90. Cenovus gained 2.7 percent to C$30.37.
Nuvista Energy Ltd., which jumped 7.4 percent yesterday after
announcing the results of a well test in Alberta, rallied
another 4.5 percent to C$11.89 today on an upgrade from Bank of
Montreal analyst  Mark Leggett .  
 Westport Innovations Inc., a maker of biogas and natural
gas engines, climbed 5.9 percent to C$17.43 after announcing a
deal to develop products for Sweden’s Volvo AB.  
 Alamos Gold Inc., which mines the precious metal in Mexico,
 led the S&P/TSX  with a 5 percent drop to C$14.54. The company
said second-quarter production declined 9 percent from a year
earlier and 8 percent from the first quarter due in part to
water conservation measures put in place during a drought.  
 Canaco Resources Inc., which explores for gold in Africa,
advanced a day after releasing drilling test results, surging 41
percent to C$1.52, the highest in at least eight years. Canaco
traded at 8 cents a share  a year ago .  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        