-- Manley Says Global CEOs Agree Government Deficits Biggest Risk to Recovery
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-12T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/manley-says-global-ceos-agree-government-deficits-biggest-risk-to-recovery.html

          
          
             John Manley , who chaired a meeting
of global executives that coincided with the Group of 20 leaders
summit last month, said there is a consensus among business
chiefs worldwide that government deficits are the biggest threat
to an economic recovery.  
 Members of the so-called B-20 who met in Toronto agreed
that reducing deficits is “a necessary precondition” for a
lasting recovery, Manley, 60, said during a July 9 interview in
Bloomberg’s Ottawa office. “There was no dissent” among
representatives of companies that included  HSBC Holdings Plc ,
Europe’s biggest lender, and  OAO Severstal , Russia’s largest
steelmaker.  
 “You just can’t keep stoking this fire,” Manley said.
“Greece has gone ahead of others but others are heading in the
same direction, and the sustainability of the deficits at the
level they have been is very much in question.”  
 Curbing deficits became a greater priority after concerns
that countries such as Greece and Spain could default on their
debts led European policy makers to offer a 750 billion euro
($948 billion) rescue package on May 10. The Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of default swaps insuring against losses on
debt of 15 governments reached an all-time high last month.  
 The G-20 agreed in Toronto that advanced economies will aim
to cut deficits in half by 2013 and stabilize debt-to-output
levels by 2016, while the International Monetary Fund urged
governments on July 8 to commit to implementing “credible”
plans to lower deficits.  
 ‘Restrained Investment’  
 Government finances may be further strained as interest
rates rise from today’s low levels, said Manley, who also leads
the Canadian Council of Chief Executives. The council has about
150  members  such as Toronto-based  Barrick Gold Corp ., the
world’s biggest gold producer, and BlackBerry maker  Research In
Motion Ltd. , that have C$4.5 trillion ($4.35 trillion) of assets
and C$850 billion of annual revenue.  
 Companies may respond to persistent deficits by creating
“a very restrained investment climate,” Manley said. “It’s
pretty fresh in their memory that credit just disappeared”
during the global crisis, he said.  
 Manley served as Canada’s Finance Minister in 2002-2003
during Prime Minister  Jean Chretien’s  Liberal administration, a
government which had earlier eliminated a C$38.5 billion
deficit. He said Canada’s experience with deficits is “you
begin to lose public support when it’s clear that what they pay
in taxes doesn’t result in an equivalent level of public
service, because the cost of servicing the debt becomes so
enormous.”  
 Manley also served as deputy prime minister, foreign
affairs minister and industry minister. He was first elected in
1988 in an Ottawa district and re-elected three times. He has
declined opportunities to run for the leadership of the Liberal
Party since he quit politics in 2003.  
 ‘Realistic’ Plan  
 On Canada’s economy, Manley said that Conservative finance
minister  Jim Flaherty’s   plan  to narrow Canada’s deficit from a
record C$53.8 billion in the year ended March 31 to C$1.8
billion by 2014 is “realistic.” He said provincial governments
will struggle more to balance their budgets because of rising
health care costs, adding there’s no risk of a default by any
Canadian province.  
 Companies are becoming more optimistic that Canada’s
economy is recovering from last year’s recession, Manley said.  
 “Nobody is going to go on a spending spree or a buying
spree right now, but nobody wants to be uncompetitive as the
recovery starts to roll in, and there is a higher degree of
optimism that’s what is beginning to happen,” he said.  
 He spoke on the day when government figures showed
 employment  rose 93,200 in June, almost five times more than
economists expected.  
 Stronger Growth  
 Economists surveyed by the finance department last month
increased their growth projections, suggesting that nominal
gross domestic product will be higher than projected in the
budget over the next five years, with a C$30 billion increase in
2010 and a C$24 billion improvement in 2014. Windfalls from the
extra growth should go to deficit reduction before more
spending, Manley said.  
 “My members would say a deficit is still a deficit,” he
said. “We don’t have more money, we have less of a deficit, so
don’t spend it -- continue to work down the deficit.”  
 Flaherty should also press ahead with plans to create a
national securities regulator over the objections of the Quebec
and Alberta provincial governments and Quebec-based companies
such as drugstore operator  Jean Coutu Group Inc. , Manley said.  
 Flaherty’s ministry released draft legislation on May 26
that would create the national regulator and said his government
would submit it to the Supreme Court of Canada to see if it’s
constitutional. The draft law would allow provinces to opt out
of the system.  
 The national regulator “is something that has to occur,”
Manley said. The government “made it voluntary; how exercised
can you get about that? If you don’t want to join, don’t join.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        