-- Apple, FormFactor, Microsoft, Sony BMG, Universal: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-12T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/apple-formfactor-microsoft-sony-bmg-universal-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Apple Inc. , the maker of the iPad
and the iPhone, sued three sellers of computer equipment for
infringing a design patent.  
 Brilliant Store Inc., of Fremont, California, and
Sunvalleytek International Inc., and Hootoo.com Inc., both of
Santa Clara, California, are accused of infringing Apple’s
patent D478,310, which was issued in August 2003.  
 The patent covers the ornamental design of a power adapter
that’s used for Apple’s portable computers, such as the MacBook.
The complaint was filed July 9 in federal court in San
Francisco.  
 Apple said it “takes great creativity” to create designs
that focus on “all the details in a product that customers will
touch and see.” It’s suffered “irreparable harm” from the
three retailers’ sale of knockoffs, the Cupertino, California-
based company claimed in its pleadings.  
 In addition to seeking a court order barring future
infringement, Apple asked the court for an award of litigation
costs and money damages.  
 Apple’s represented by  Rosemary Theresa Ring ,  Andrew
Winston Song , and  Gregory P. Stone  from Los Angeles-based  Munger
Tolles & Olson LLP   and Perry J. Saidman  from  the Saidman
Designlaw Group LLC , of Silver Spring, Maryland.  
 The case is Apple Inc., v. Brilliant Store Inc., 3:10-cv-
02996-JCS, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  
 FormFactor Settles Patent Dispute with Micronics Japan  
 FormFactor Inc. , a maker of devices used to test computer
chips during the manufacturing process, settled a patent
infringement dispute with Tokyo-based  Micronics Japan Co. ,
according to court filings.  
 FormFactor, of Livermore, California, sued Micronics in
federal court in San Francisco in November 2008, alleging
infringement of four patents for chip-testing technology. The
company earlier filed a complaint with the U.S. International
Trade Commission, seeking to halt importation of what it said
was infringing technology.  
 The Trade Commission said in November 2009 that there was
no violation of FormFactor’s patent rights.  
 As recently as June 14, the patent-infringement case in
federal court was far from resolution, with a hearing on the
scope of the patent set for June 2011. The court document
indicating settlement had been reached was filed June 21.  
 According to a July 9 FormFactor statement, no details of
the settlement agreement were released.  
 The disputed patents were 6,509,751, 6,246,247, 6,624,648,
and 7,073,254.  
 The case in federal court was FormFactor v. Micronics Japan
Co, 3:06-07159-JSW, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  
 Microsoft Seeks Patent on ‘Virtual Page Turn’ for Devices  
 Microsoft Corp. , the world’s largest software company, has
applied for a patent on a technology that will give users the
ability to flip a page in a digital reading device just as they
can in a book.  
 Application  20100175018 , which was published in the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark office July 8, is for
what Microsoft calls a “virtual page turn.”  
 The technology covered by the patent gives the electronic
device the ability to recognize a page-turning gesture by the
user. The device will then curl a portion of the virtually
lifted page to reveal the back side.  
 This invention could be used with a “surface computer,
tablet computer, mobile communications device, personal data
assistant, desktop computer with a touch screen, laptop computer
with a touch screen, or virtually any other computing device
that utilizes a touch display,” Microsoft says in its
application.  
 The Redmond, Washington-based software company filed the
application in January 2009.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Judge Cuts Sony BMG Illegal Downloading Award by 90 Percent  
 Sony BMG Music Entertainment and four other major music
labels were dealt a blow in their fight against illegal music
downloading and file sharing by a federal judge who cut their
damages award by 90 percent.  
 U.S. District Judge Nancy Gertner said, in a 62-page order
July 9, that the $675,000 Joel Tenenbaum was ordered to pay was
too high, and cut it to $67,500.  
 The labels sued Tenenbaum in federal court in Boston in
2007, claiming they were damaged by his alleged copyright
infringement. Although Judge Gertner tried to open up the
proceedings to television coverage, she was rebuffed in April
2009 by a federal appeals court that accused her of exceeding
her discretion.  
 She said in her July 9 order that reducing Tenenbaum’s
damages sent the message that the U.S. Constitution’s due-
process clause protected “ordinary people” just as it
protected large corporations “from grossly excessive punitive
awards.” She could not find “any plausible rationale” for
Tenenbaum to pay $675,000 damages, she said, with the asymmetry
between the award and the music companies’ actual damages “so
extreme as to jar the court’s sensibilities.”  
 She maintained that a penalty of $67,500 is, for Tenenbaum,
“significant and harsh.”  
 The case is Sony BMG Music Entertainment v. Tenenbaum,
1:07-cv-11446-NG, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  
 Universal, Snoop Dogg Accused of Infringing Henderson’s Music  
 Universal Music Group Inc. and the rap performer known as
 Snoop Dogg  are among the defendants in two copyright
infringement suits filed by jazz musician  Michael Henderson .  
 The two suits, filed July 6 in federal court in Detroit,
related to the segments of Henderson’s music he claims is used
without his permission.  
 Henderson, who is known for having played fusion jazz with
Miles Davis, said Snoop Dogg’s “Ego Trippin’” album contained
a song “Flashbacks” in which his music is “featured
prominently” without his permission. Nick Carter’s “Fornever”
album is also accused of using unauthorized samples of
Henderson’s work.  
 In addition to asking for money damages, Henderson seeks
seizure and destruction of all infringing products, and an order
barring any future use of his work without authorization by the
defendants. He also requested awards for litigation costs and
attorney fees.  
 The musician is represented in both cases by  Jeffrey P.
Thennisch  of  Dobrusin & Thennisch PC  of Pontiac, Michigan.  
 The case against Snoop Dogg is Henderson v. Calvin Broadus,
2:10-cv-12674-RHC-MAR, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Detroit). The other case is Henderson v. Carter, 2:10-
cv-12675-SFC-VMM, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan (Detroit)  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Dueling Loch Ness Monster Attractions Settle Trademark Dispute  
 A trademark dispute between two competing attractions
focused on the mythic Loch Ness monster has been settled, the
University of Edinburgh’s School of Law’s Scots Law News
 reported .  
 The Official Loch Ness Exhibition Centre claimed the public
was confused by the similarity between its name and that of the
Original Loch Ness Monster Center, which are about 100 yards
about in the Scottish town of Drumadrochit, according to Scots
Law News.  
 Under the terms of the agreement, the Loch Ness Exhibition
Center will be known as the  Loch Ness Center and Exhibition , the
Scots Law News reported.  
 The Original Loch Ness Monster attraction has been renamed
the  Nessieland Castle Monster Centre , according to the news.  
 Indiana Black Expo to Restrict Unauthorized Trademark Use  
 The  Indiana Black Expo , a 40-year-old Indianapolis event
celebrating African American Culture, is beginning to enforce
its trademark rights against unauthorized vendors at its future
events, the Indianapolis Star  reported .  
 Merchants that hadn’t signed an agreement with the
exposition by July 9 will be ordered to shut down, the newspaper
reported.  
 Unsanctioned bars and clubs will be asked not to use the
exposition’s name or logo, according to the Star.  
 Exposition officials hope to generate revenue for
scholarships and programming from licensing the trademarks, the
newspaper reported.  
 Toyota Loses Internet Domain Name Trademark Appellate Case  
 Toyota Motor Corp.  lost a trademark-infringement case to a
California auto broker unrepresented by counsel.  
 Toyota sued Lisa and Farzad Tabari in federal court in Los
Angeles in 2003, objecting to their Fast Imports auto
brokerage’s use of photos of Lexus cars on their website.  The
automaker also objected to the inclusion of “Lexus” in their
Internet domain names.  
 The district court found that the Tabaris had infringed the
Toyota marks and ordered them to quit using “Lexus” anywhere
in the domain names.  
 The Tabaris filed an appeal to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeal, and argued the case on their own in August 2009.  
 In a July 8 ruling, a three-judge panel said the trial
court reached too far. The panel noted that the domain names --
“we-are-definitely-not-lexus.com and “independent-lexus-
broker.com -- wouldn’t confuse a reasonable company into
thinking the Japanese automaker sponsored the sites.  
 “Prohibition of such truthful and non-misleading speech”
didn’t protect consumers, the appeals court said. “In fact, it
undermines the rational by frustrating honest communication
between the Tabaris and their customers.”  
 The appeals panel told the trial court to modify its order
to allow at least some use of the Lexus mark in the Tabaris’
domain names. “Trademarks are part of our common language and
we all have some right to use them to communicate in truthful,
non-misleading ways,” the panel said.  
 The appeals court also addressed the fact that the Tabaris
represented themselves. “Many of the district court’s errors
seem to be the result of unevenly-matched lawyering, as Toyota
appears to have taken advantage of the fact that the Tabaris
appeared pro se,” Judge Alex Kozinski wrote for the panel.  
 He suggested that to avoid similar problems in the future,
the court “might consider contacting members of the bar to
determine if any would be willing to represent the Tabaris at a
reduced rate or on a volunteer basis.”  
 The case is Toyota Motor Sales v. Tabari, 07-55344, 9th
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San Francisco).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 University Technology Transfer  
 Spherix Takes License to University of Kentucky’s Technology  
 Spherix Inc. ’s Biospherics unit has taken a license to
patent applications for a technology to lower level of
triglycerides found in blood, the company said in a  statement .  
 The agreement will give the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company the rights to international patents for five drug
formulations developed at the university. More than 140 nations
are signatories to the patent cooperation treaty governing these
patents.  
 The connection between 43-yedr-old Spherix and the
university comes by way of its president,  Professor Robert
Lodder of  the University of Kentucky’s College of Pharmacy.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        