-- Archaeologists Uncover 3,350-Year-Old Document Near Jerusalem's City Wall
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-07-12T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/archaeologists-uncover-3-350-year-old-document-near-jerusalem-s-city-wall.html

          
          
             A tiny clay fragment dating from the
14th century B.C., which was discovered outside Jerusalem’s Old
City walls, contains the oldest written document found in the
city, researchers say.  
 The 3,350-year-old clay fragment was uncovered during
sifting of fill excavated from beneath a 10th century B.C.
tower, dating from the period of King Solomon in an area near
the southern wall of the Old City, the  Hebrew University of
Jerusalem  said today in an e-mailed statement. Details of the
find appear in the current  Israel Exploration Journal .  
 “The find, believed to be part of a tablet from a royal
archive, further testifies to the importance of Jerusalem as a
major city in the Late Bronze Age, long before its conquest by
King David,” the statement said.  
 The fragment, which is 2 centimeters (less than 1 inch) by
2.8 centimeters in size and 1 centimeter thick, contains
cuneiform, or wedge-shaped, symbols in ancient Akkadian. The
fragment was likely part of a “royal missive,” according to
Wayne Horowitz, a scholar of Assyriology at the Hebrew
University  Institute of Archaeology .  
 Tablets with diplomatic messages were routinely exchanged
between kings in the ancient Near East, and it is likely that
the fragment was part of such a message, Horowitz said in the
statement. The symbols on the fragment include the words “you”
“you were,” “later,” “to do” and “them,” according to
the statement.  
 City of David  
 The oldest known written record previously found in
Jerusalem was a tablet found in the Shiloah water tunnel in the
City of David area from the 8th century B.C. reign of King
Hezekiah. That tablet, celebrating the completion of the tunnel,
is in a museum in Istanbul. The latest find predates the
Hezekiah tablet by about 600 years.  
 Excavations in the area were conducted by  Eilat Mazar  of
the Hebrew University Institute of Archaeology. Funding for the
project was provided by Daniel Mintz and Meredith Berkman of New
York.  
 The fragment found in Jerusalem is believed to be
contemporary with some 380 tablets discovered in the 19th
century at Amarna in Egypt in the archives of Pharaoh Amenhotep
IV, or Akhenaten, who lived in the 14th century B.C. The
archives include tablets sent to him by the kings who were
subservient to him in Canaan and Syria. Among these are six that
are addressed from Abdi-Heba, the Canaanite ruler of Jerusalem.  
 The table fragment in Jerusalem is most likely part of a
message from the king of Jerusalem, possibly Abdi-Heba, back to
Egypt, Mazar said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Wayne Horowitz, scholar of Assyriology at the Hebrew University Institute of Archaeology, with the excavated clay document. Source: Hebrew University of Jerusalem via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A clay fragment found by Hebrew University archaeologists in excavations outside Jerusalem's Old City walls.  Source: Hebrew University of Jerusalem via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
