-- Harrods Sees Profit From Islamic Fashion as Qatar Takes Control
-- Heidi Couch
-- 2010-07-12T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/harrods-sees-profits-in-islamic-fashion-as-qatari-owners-showcase-abayas.html

          
          
             Fashion designer Hind Beljafla makes
abayas to match the  Gucci  shoes and Hermes handbags of high-
spending women in the Gulf.  
 Now these women can buy her elegant versions of the black
Islamic robes, which obscure the contours of a woman’s body,
when they head to London this summer to escape the Arabian
Peninsula’s sweltering heat. Harrods started selling abayas by
Beljafla’s  DAS Collection  in June, a month after Qatar’s
sovereign-wealth fund bought the landmark store.  
 “Muslim women are like any women around the world: they
love fashion and love shopping,” Beljafla, 24, said in a July 1
interview in her Dubai store. Together with her 26-year-old
sister Reem, she uses splashes of color, embroidery and even
leather and metal studs on the plain black abaya.  
 Fashion houses in Milan and Paris are waking up to the
commercial potential for Muslim women’s clothing that respects
religious values and sets new standards for style. The global
Muslim fashion industry would be worth $96 billion if half of
the world’s 1.6 billion Muslims spend just $120 a year on
clothing, according to  French Fashion University Esmod  in Dubai.  
 Gas exporter Qatar ranks among the world’s wealthiest
nations, with a gross domestic product per capita of  $121,000 ,
while Saudi Arabia sits on a fifth of the planet’s oil reserves.  
 Fashion Shows  
 John Galliano  was among 21 designers who participated in a
Paris show in June 2009 at Hotel George V, owned by Saudi  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal . The made-to-measure abayas displayed there,
worth up to $10,000, were donated to buyers, including members
of the Saudi royal family.  
 Saks Fifth Avenue, which hosted the event, then put
designer ready-to-wear abayas on sale for as much as $12,000 at
its stores in the Saudi cities of Riyadh and Jeddah. The abayas
are displayed alongside designer evening gowns on the women-only
floor of a shopping mall in Riyadh’s glass skyscraper, the
Kingdom Center, owned by Alwaleed.  
 At the top end of the market, Saudi princesses sometimes
buy 15 to 20 evening gowns for as much as $20,000 each after
ordering Saks to bring a selection of the latest Paris and Milan
collections to their palaces, store manager Mohammed Nafisa
said. They want abayas by the same designers to match.  
 “They normally buy an outfit to be used only once at an
evening reception,” which is an all-female gathering, he said.  
 Saudi Arabia, which follows a strict interpretation of
Islam, forbids mixing in public between men and women unrelated
by family.  
 Matching Accessories  
 Clients have asked DAS to make abayas to match the color of
their designer bags and high heels by brands such as  Christian Dior , Hermes, Channel and Gucci “because they will be wearing
the abaya in public where they cannot show a dress that would
match with their accessories,” Beljafla said.  
 “High-end designers such as Hermes and Gucci are also
trying to break into the Muslim market with scarves and other
products,” said Tamara Hostal, director of Esmod Dubai.  
 Four years ago,  Christian Dior SA  had one store in the
Middle East, in Dubai. Since then, it has opened other outlets
in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Lebanon, Kuwait and the United
Arab Emirates, bringing the total to 10 in the region.  
 Paris-based  Jean-Claude Jitrois , who has made leather
clothes for celebrities including French rock musician  Johnny Hallyday , designed a silk black abaya with hand-woven leather
embroidery and Swarovski Crystals for the Hotel George V show.
He has since made abayas for several Saudi princesses as well as
a collection of 40 for sale at Saks Fifth Avenue.  
 ‘No Contradiction’  
 “There is no contradiction between the modernity of
European fashion and modernity of Middle Eastern women,” he
said. “Every culture has its traditions and you have to respect
this while giving it a twist.”  
 Tamara Al Gabbani, a TV presenter and Dubai businesswoman
whose family comes from Saudi Arabia, said she feels like a
“modern Arab woman” with fashion abayas.  
 “Wearing abayas has always been part of my lifestyle,” she
said. “The new generation wants something different. They are
educated, working and lead busy lifestyles. The modern woman
wants to keep her identity, but also look fashionable.”  
 In the U.A.E. and Qatar, local women can be seen walking
around high-end shopping malls with bouffant hairstyles that at
times allows the headscarf to expose some of their hair.  
 Islamic fashion has a potential that has “not been
completely estimated yet,” said Milan-based designer  Alberta Ferretti , who took part in the Paris show.  
 Outside Mideast  
 The market extends from the Middle East to Muslim-populated
countries in Southeast Asia, Europe, Africa and North America.
The  Islamic Fashion Festival  started in 2006 in Kuala Lumpur and
Jakarta and expanded to Dubai in 2008, with more than 200
designers participating.  
 Dato Raja Rezza Shah, chairman of the IFF, said he wants to
establish the three cities as the Islamic fashion capitals of
the world, just as London, Paris, New York and Milan are for
Western labels.  
 Turkish firm  Hasema  sells full-body Islamic swimwear dubbed
the burqini after the Afghan burqa, designed to allow Muslim
women to swim while retaining their modesty, in more than 30
countries. While some burqinis are black, others come in bright
colors. The burqa is a robe that covers the entire body and
includes a mesh over the eyes, while the burqini, like the
abaya, leaves the face exposed.  
 In Dubai’s  Atlantis  water park, visitors see Muslim women
dressed in burqinis frolicking in the slides.  
 World Cup Abayas  
 Saudi Arabia designer Rania Khogaer created a stir last
month in her home country by introducing a collection of abayas
adorned with the logos and flags of nations competing in the
soccer  World Cup .  
 In London, where summertime visitors from the Gulf throng
the streets of the U.K. capital’s upscale Knightsbridge
district, the abayas at Harrods have proved popular.  
 “DAS arrived at Harrods a few weeks ago and has been
performing well and receiving a lot of interest from our
customers,” said Helen David, the store’s Womenswear General
Merchandise Manager.  
 DAS, whose designer pieces sell for as much as $5,000,
counts members of the ruling families in the U.A.E. and Oman
among its regular clientele. The label is in talks with Harrods
to put on sale a new collection in 2011, which it hopes will
cement the brand’s international appeal.  
 “As long as you are covering the body, as long as you are
conservative in the way you dress, why not be fashionable?”
Beljafla said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Heidi Couch  in Dubai at   hcouch@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hind Beljafla, wearing an abaya from the Das Collection, poses for a photograph at her store in Dubai. Photographer: Gabriela Maj/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Harrods showcase abayas  
                       
                         
                           Gabriela Maj/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hind Beljafla, wearing an abaya from the Das Collection, poses for a photograph at her store in Dubai. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hind Beljafla, wearing an abaya from the Das Collection, poses for a photograph at her store in Dubai. Photographer: Gabriela Maj/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
