-- Asian Currencies Slip From 3-Week High as Europe Debt Woes Bolster Dollar
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-12T09:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/asian-currencies-slip-from-3-week-high-as-europe-debt-woes-bolster-dollar.html

          
          
             Asian currencies  retreated as
concern some European nations will struggle to pay their debt
bolstered demand for the perceived safety of the U.S. dollar.  
 The greenback rose against all but two of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after Der Spiegel said a German
plan to allow the “orderly insolvency” of countries would
force bondholders to give up part of their claims. The
Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index  earlier today touched a
three-week high after China reported record exports and South
Korea’s central bank raised its 2010 economic growth forecast.  
 “Europe’s troubles are not over and China’s growth could
be peaking out,” said  Thio Chin Loo , a senior currency analyst
at BNP Paribas SA in Singapore. “Markets remain cautious and
they’re not expecting the bullish mood to extend too far.”  
 South Korea’s won fell 0.5 percent to close at 1,201.86 per
dollar in Seoul, having touched a two-week high of 1,193.75.
Malaysia’s ringgit weakened 0.3 percent to 3.2050 as of 5:13
p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, after strengthening on all but one of the
last six trading days. The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, dropped for
the first time in five days.  
 The euro fell against the dollar and the yen as Spiegel’s
report reignited concern that euro-area countries may fail to
repay their debts. A proposal drafted by the German Finance and
Justice Ministries calls for the setting up of a “Berlin Club”
of governments to oversee insolvencies, the magazine reported in
an e-mailed advance copy of an article for its July 12 edition.  
 Debt Crisis  
 “Concerns in euro-land sent the euro down quite a bit from
Friday and this is affecting Asian currencies as the dollar
rises,” said  Wai Ho Leong , a senior regional economist at
Barclays Plc in Singapore. “But the losses in Asian currencies
are quite limited which shows resilience as overall sentiment
remains positive.”  
 Central banks in India, South Korea and Malaysia have
raised interest rates this month, helping to attract funds from
yield-hungry investors. Benchmark rates are near-zero in the U.S.
and 1 percent in the euro region, compared with at least 4
percent in India and 2.75 percent in Malaysia.  
 “Policy makers have been more positive on their economic
outlooks in the past weeks,” said Brian Jackson, an emerging-
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “The
mood in most Asian currencies should be more positive on this.”  
 Strong Fundamentals  
 China’s exports surged 43.9 percent from a year earlier in
June to $137.4 billion and the trade surplus more than doubled
to $20 billion, the most in eight months, according to data
released July 10. The Bank of Korea today raised its 2010
economic growth forecast to 5.9 percent, from an April
projection of 5.2 percent, and doubled its prediction for this
year’s current-account surplus to $21 billion.  
 “Fundamentals are really strong and that’s a positive,”
said  Hur Sang Hoon , a currency analyst at Korea Exchange Bank.
“That’s led to higher interest rates, which will attract
capital flows looking to take advantage of higher yields.”  
 Taiwan’s dollar reversed gains in the final two minutes of
trading to close 0.4 percent weaker at NT$32.250 versus its U.S.
counterpart. The central bank sold the currency in late trading
to curb appreciation that may hurt exports, according to a
trader familiar with the monetary authority’s operations.  
 Intervention Risk  
 Malaysia’s ringgit fell as traders speculated that the
central bank will stop raising interest rates after three
increases this year. The country doesn’t want excessive currency
volatility, Bank Negara Malaysia Assistant Governor Sukhdave
Singh said on July 9.  
 “The appreciation of the ringgit from here should be
limited as borrowing costs may not increase further,” said
 Minori Uchida , senior analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “Resistance to a stronger ringgit is
relatively weak in Malaysia’s case, but they don’t like big
fluctuations. Any sharp gain may fuel concern of intervention.”  
 Twelve-month Chinese yuan forwards rose for a third day to
6.6582 per dollar, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen
1.7 percent from the spot rate of 6.7711. The U.S. government
stopped short of branding China a currency manipulator on July 8
and said the yuan “remains undervalued” after the nation
relaxed a two-year peg of about 6.83 per dollar on June 19.  
 “China’s trade number was pretty positive and there might
be a bit of pressure from Washington for the yuan to appreciate
at a faster pace,” Jackson of Royal Bank of Canada said. Yuan
forwards “should see a bit of that” appreciation pressure this
week, he added.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.1 percent to 9,053
versus the greenback and Singapore’s dollar slipped 0.3 percent
to S$1.3826. The Thai baht slid 0.1 percent to 32.37.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        