-- Asian Currencies Trade Near Three-Week High on Growth Outlook, Rate Rises
-- Patricia Lui
-- 2010-07-12T05:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/asian-currencies-trade-near-three-week-high-on-growth-outlook-rate-rises.html

          
          
             Asian currencies  traded near a
three-week high after China reported record exports for June and
South Korea’s central bank raised its 2010 economic growth
forecast, bolstering demand for regional assets.  
 The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, advanced
in all but one of the last five weeks as interest-rate increases
in India, South Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan helped attract funds
from yield-hungry investors. Benchmark rates are near-zero in
the U.S. and 1 percent in the euro region, compared with at
least 4 percent in India and 2.75 percent in Malaysia.  
 “Policy makers have been more positive on their economic
outlooks in the past weeks,” said Brian Jackson, an emerging-
markets strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “The
mood in most Asian currencies should be more positive on this.”  
 India’s rupee traded at 46.65 per dollar as of 10:15 a.m.
in Mumbai, from 46.67 at the end of last week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It earlier touched a one-week high of
46.60. Taiwan’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to NT$32.04, after
appreciating on all but one of the last six trading days. The
Asia Dollar Index was little changed near a three-week high.  
 The MSCI Asia-Pacific  Index  of shares added 0.1 percent to
116.31, headed for its best close since June 24.  
 ‘Really Strong’  
 China’s exports surged 43.9 percent from a year earlier in
June to $137.4 billion and the trade surplus more than doubled
to $20 billion, the most in eight months, according to data
released July 10. The Bank of Korea today raised its 2010
economic growth forecast to 5.9 percent, from an April
projection of 5.2 percent, and doubled its prediction for this
year’s current-account surplus to $21 billion.  
 “Fundamentals are really strong and that’s a positive,”
said  Hur Sang Hoon , a currency analyst at Korea Exchange Bank.
“That’s led to higher interest rates, which will attract
capital flows looking to take advantage of higher yields.”  
 Taiwan’s dollar rose for a third day on speculation that
the island’s economic recovery and a trade accord with China
will attract overseas funds. Gross domestic product may expand
as much as 8 percent this year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs
Affairs said July 8, more than the 6.14 percent predicted by the
statistics bureau in May.  
 “The Taiwan dollar doesn’t have room to depreciate,” said
 Tommy Huang , a fixed-income trader at Taiwan International
Securities Corp. in Taipei. “The economy is doing well, and
some funds from overseas are being parked in short-term debt.”  
 Yuan Pressure  
 Twelve-month Chinese yuan forwards rose for a third day to
6.6569 per dollar, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen
1.7 percent from the spot rate of 6.7717. The U.S. government
stopped short of branding China a currency manipulator on July 8
and said the yuan “remains undervalued” after the nation
relaxed a two-year peg of about 6.83 per dollar on June 19.  
 “China’s trade number was pretty positive and there might
be a bit of pressure from Washington for the yuan to appreciate
at a faster pace,” Jackson of Royal Bank of Canada said. Yuan
forwards “should see a bit of that” appreciation pressure this
week, he added.  
 Malaysia’s ringgit was little changed at 3.1990 per dollar,
after strengthening on all but one of the last six trading days.
Traders speculated that the central bank will stop raising
interest rates after three increases this year. The country
doesn’t want excessive currency volatility, Bank Negara Malaysia
Assistant Governor Sukhdave Singh said on July 9.  
 “The appreciation of the ringgit from here should be
limited as borrowing costs may not increase further,” said
 Minori Uchida , senior analyst in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “Resistance to a stronger ringgit is
relatively weak in Malaysia’s case, but they don’t like big
fluctuations. Any sharp gain may fuel concern of intervention.”  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah slipped 0.1 percent to 9,050
per dollar and Singapore’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to S$1.3806.
South Korea’s won declined 0.3 percent to 1,199.30, after
touching a two-week high of 1,193.75.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Lui  at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        