-- Aspen Pharmacare to Continue Push to Buy All of Australia's Sigma Pharma
-- Simeon Bennett
-- 2010-07-12T14:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/aspen-will-push-to-buy-all-of-sigma-as-distributor-considers-selling-units.html

          
          
             Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. ,
which is bidding for  Sigma Pharmaceuticals Ltd. , will push for a
full takeover as Australia’s largest drug distributor said it
may consider offers for parts of its business.  
 Aspen’s intention remains to buy all of Sigma, Roshni
Gajjar, Aspen’s investor relations manager, said in a telephone
interview from Durban, South Africa today. Aspen is waiting for
its due diligence exercise to be “completely finalized” and
then it will be up to Sigma to take the offer to shareholders
and for the board to “reassess” the bid, she said.  
 Sigma, which has lost more than half its market value this
year, said in a statement today that it is evaluating
expressions of interest for its units, including its generics
business, after Aspen’s exclusive right to negotiate an
agreement expired. The Melbourne-based company also said it
wants an improved offer from Aspen, which last week cut its bid.  
 Aspen on July 7 reduced its offer to 55 Australian cents
per share from 60 Australian cents, lowering the value of the
transaction to A$648 million ($567 million). The bid comes with
11 conditions, which include a break fee payable to Aspen if the
deal doesn’t proceed after acceptance by investors.  
 Sigma is willing to work with Aspen to help remove some
conditions, Sigma said. Talks don’t mean Sigma will recommend
the bid to shareholders and the company has made no final
decision yet, it said.  
 Record Loss  
 Shareholders should take no action at this stage, Sigma
said. Last month, Sigma replaced its chief executive officer,
one of three top managers who quit after the company posted a
record full-year loss.  
 “Unless there’s something we don’t know, I think it would
be very hard for the board to recommend an offer at 55 cents,”
 David Arter , an analyst at Wilson HTM Investment Group in
Melbourne, said by telephone. “Shareholders are under the
belief that there’s good recovery potential for the business.
There’s a major management change underway.”  
 Shares of Sigma closed  unchanged  at 45.5 Australian cents
on the Australian stock exchange, extending this year’s decline
to 54 percent. Aspen fell 1.2 percent to 76.25 as of 4 p.m. in
Johannesburg trading.  
 Sigma appointed  Brian Jamieson  to replace  John Stocker  as
chairman on June 21 and said the same day it may miss its full-
year profit forecast. The company said June 16 that  Mark Hooper ,
a former head of finance at Sigma, will succeed  Elmo de Alwis  as
chief executive officer. Sigma has yet to appoint a chief
financial officer after  Mark Smith  quit.  
 “The fact that Sigma are bending over backwards to make it
happen indicates to me that things are pretty bad operationally
for Sigma,”  John Hester , a health-care analyst at Linwar
Securities Ltd. in Sydney, said by telephone about the Aspen
bid. “Mark’s just one man. It’s going to take him years to turn
the ship around.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        