-- Uganda Blames Somali Islamists for Bomb That Killed 64
-- Fred Ojambo
-- 2010-07-12T11:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/at-least-64-killed-as-bomb-blasts-strike-world-cup-soccer-fans-in-uganda.html

          
          
             At least 70 people died in the
Ugandan capital, Kampala, in two bomb attacks suspected to have
been carried out by Somali insurgents linked to al-Qaeda,
Ugandan security officials said.  
 The blasts occurred at two bars where crowds were watching
the soccer World Cup final, Fred Opolot, director of the Uganda
Media Center, told reporters today in the city. The first blast
went off at the Ethiopian Village Restaurant in the south of
Kampala at 10:25 p.m. local time and the second followed at the
Kyadondo Rugby club at 11:15 p.m., he said. Some of the 67
people injured later died in the hospital, James Kakooza,
minister of state for health, said in a phone interview.  
 “According to the inspector-general of police, there is an
indication it’s linked to al-Shabaab,” Felix Kulayigye, a
spokesman for the Ugandan army, said in a phone interview today.
“This is a terrorist act. The intention is to instill fear.”  
 Ugandan soldiers form part of an African Union-led
peacekeeping force in Somalia, where al-Shabaab has been
battling the country’s Western-backed government since 2007. The
U.S. accuses al-Shabaab of having links to al-Qaeda, which has
said it plans to establish an Islamic government in Somalia.
Burundi also has peacekeepers in Somalia.  
 “Al-Shabaab has said they would attack Uganda and Burundi
many times in the past because of the troops,”  Rashid Abdi , a
Horn of Africa analyst at the International Crisis Group, said
in a phone interview today from Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.
“This was just a matter of time. It was coming.”  
 American Killed  
 Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  condemned the attack and
said the nation’s security forces would hunt down the
perpetrators.  
 “We shall look for them and get them wherever they are,”
Museveni told reporters today.  
 The Ugandan shilling weakened 0.5 percent to 2,275 against
the U.S. dollar, the weakest level since July 2.  
 An American citizen was among those killed in the
explosions, Joann Lockard, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in
Kampala, said in a phone interview.  
 “There were Americans injured, but I don’t have any
details,” she said. More information will be released later
today, Lockard said.  
 Condemnation  
 “I join President Obama in strongly condemning today’s
attacks in Kampala, Uganda targeting innocent spectators
watching the World Cup final,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in a  statement  on the State Department’s website.
“We have a long-standing, close friendship with the people and
government of Uganda and will work with them to bring the
perpetrators of this crime to justice.”  
 Ethiopia’s government said it was trying to establish
whether any of its citizens were killed in the blasts. U.S.-
backed Ethiopian forces invaded Somalia in December 2006 to oust
the Islamist government that had captured southern Somalia. They
withdrew in January 2009.  
 “There have been no recent threats specifically in
Ethiopia, but we know the Somali groups have said they will
launch attacks on peacekeeper nations,” Ethiopian Communications
Minister  Bereket Simon  said in an interview from Addis Ababa.
“Such cowardly acts take place at times of lax security, but in
Ethiopia we have been preparing ourselves to get rid of this
possibility.”  
 Attack Welcomed  
 Sheikh Abdikarim Abdulahi Yusuf, an al-Shabaab leader
contacted on his mobile phone in Mogadishu, the Somali capital,
said he wasn’t authorized to comment on the blasts, though he
welcomed the attack.  
 “I am not sure who is responsible, but it is my pleasure to
hear such a story,” he said.  
 Uganda has 2,700 soldiers in Somalia and Burundi has 2,550,
according to the website of the  Francophone Research Network on
Peace Operations .  
 The leader of al-Shabaab, known as Abu-Zubeyr, last week
threatened to take revenge on Ugandan and Burundi citizens for
the deaths of civilians in Somalia.  
 “Uganda and Burundi’s populations will be held accountable
for the ongoing massacre in Mogadishu that left many children,
teenagers, women and old people dead,” Abu-Zubeyr said in an
audio tape distributed to reporters on July 4.  
 Expanded Force  
 Last week, the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development,
a Djibouti-based body that groups six East African countries,
called for the peacekeeping mission in Somalia to deploy an
additional 2,000 soldiers to help the government battle
“extremist groups.”  
 Yesterday’s attacks “could be a message to frontline states
-- Kenya, Uganda, Ethiopia and also including Burundi -- that
enhanced military intervention will be met with these kinds of
attacks,” Abdi said.  
 Uganda, with a population of more than 30 million people
and an economy of $16.4 billion, will begin commercial
production of oil next year when  Tullow Oil Plc  starts output at
its Kasamene field. Tullow, based in London, said in an e-mailed
statement that none of its operations had been affected by the
blasts, though the company’s Kampala-based staff were advised to
remain at home today.  
 The East African nation, about the size of the U.S. state
of Oregon, is the continent’s biggest exporter of robusta
coffee.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Survivors are seen at an Ethiopian-owned restaurant in the Kabalagala area of Kampala late on July 11, 2010 moments after twin bomb blasts tore through crowds of football fans watching the World Cup final, killing 64 people, including an American, and wounding scores others. Photographer: AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
