-- Australian, New Zealand Dollars Rise as U.S. Stocks Gain on Earnings View
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-13T16:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/australia-new-zealand-dollars-are-near-highest-since-june-on-alcoa-profit.html

          
          
             The Australian dollar climbed to the
highest level in three weeks, erasing an earlier drop, as
speculation U.S. corporate earnings will beat the estimates of
analysts boosted investor appetite for higher-yielding assets.  
 New Zealand’s dollar climbed for a seventh straight day in
its longest winning streak since Jan. 6, when it rose for eight
days. The Australian currency fell earlier as China’s clampdown
on speculative property investment and its move to restrain
steel production stoked demand for haven securities.  
 “With the bourses underperforming overnight on concerns
over China’s growth, it hurt the Aussie dollar,” said  Dean Popplewell , an analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading
firm Oanda Corp. “Now that the equity markets are in the black,
the commodity currencies are certainly performing rather well.”  
 Australia’s currency rose 0.7 percent to 88.20 U.S. cents
at 12:04 p.m. in New York, from 87.59 cents yesterday. It
earlier reached 88.28 cents, its highest level since June 22.
New Zealand’s dollar climbed 1.1 percent to 71.98 U.S. cents,
after earlier climbing to 71.99 cents, the strongest level since
May 12.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific  Index of shares slid 0.1 percent and
dropped as much as 0.7 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
gained 1.5 percent.  
 Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported
second-quarter sales and profit that beat analysts’ estimates
and forecast higher global demand for the metal.  
 China’ Housing  
 China will “strictly” enforce housing policies such as
lending rules to prevent speculative real estate investment, the
Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development said in a
statement on its website.  
 Li Yizhong , head of the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology, said China will push for mergers in the
steel industry and curb any rapid increase in steel production,
according to a speech posted on the ministry’s website today.
China is Australia’s largest trading partner.  
 The New Zealand dollar also gained on speculation a
government report this week will show consumer  prices  advanced
for a second quarter. The July 16 inflation report is expected
to show that consumer prices rose 0.4 percent last quarter from
the prior three months, and 1.9 percent from a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        