-- Australia Home-Loan Approvals Rose 1.9% in May, Investment Lending Gains
-- Jacob Greber
-- 2010-07-12T02:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/australian-home-loan-approvals-climbed-in-may-first-gain-in-eight-months.html

          
          
             Australian  home-loan approvals  rose
in May for the first time in eight months, a sign buyers are
weathering the central bank’s six interest-rate increases.  
 The number of loans granted to build or buy houses and
apartments gained 1.9 percent to 48,818 from April, when they
declined a revised 1.5 percent, the statistics bureau said in
Sydney today. The  median estimate  of 21 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for no change in approvals.  
 Higher approvals suggest Governor  Glenn Stevens  may have
scope to resume the Group of 20’s most aggressive round of rate
increases as the nation’s economic rebound threatens to stoke
inflation. Borrowing tumbled between October and April after the
government reduced grants to first-time buyers of new dwellings.  
 “It’s a hopeful sign that we’ve now seen the home lending
market stabilize,” said  Matthew Johnson , an interest rate
analyst at UBS AG in Sydney. If that continues, “the RBA will
probably have some extra work to do in August,” he said.  
 The rebound in investment lending is also “reassuring, as
there’s quite a correlation between investment lending and house
prices,” Johnson said.  
 The Australian dollar traded at 87.38 U.S. cents at 12:10
p.m. in Sydney from 87.56 cents just before the report was
released. The two-year government bond yield was unchanged at
4.53 percent.  
 The total value of loans rose 0.7 percent to A$21.4 billion
($18.7 billion) in May, today’s report showed.  
 The value of lending to owner-occupiers declined 0.3
percent. The value of loans to investors who plan to rent or
resell homes gained 2.6 percent.  
 Government Grants  
 Borrowing has tumbled since the start of the fourth quarter
after the government began reducing A$21,000 grants to first-
time buyers of newly built dwellings. Those grants were lowered
in two steps to A$7,000 on Jan. 1.  
 Demand has also been buffeted by the central bank’s 150
basis points of interest rate increases since October, which
have taken the benchmark rate to 4.5 percent.  
 “Credit outstanding for housing has continued to expand at
a solid pace, but dwelling prices are rising more slowly than
earlier in the year,” Stevens said July 6, after keeping the
benchmark unchanged for a second month.  
 First-home buyers accounted for 16.1 percent of dwellings
that were financed in May, down from 16.3 percent in April and
28.5 percent in May 2009, the statistics bureau said today.  
 Demand for loans may rise further in coming months as
Australia’s jobs boom, stoked by Chinese demand for natural
resources, drives the nation’s jobless rate below that of Japan
and to almost half the level of the U.S.  
 Employers added 45,900 jobs last month, capping the best
quarter in almost four years in June, and keeping the jobless
rate at 5.1 percent from the revised reading for May, a report
showed July 8.  
 The strengthening job market may escalate pressure on
inflation, which Governor Stevens said last week is likely to
accelerate above his target range.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Jacob Greber  in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        