-- Law on Indian Regulators' Jurisdiction May Erode Autonomy, Subbarao Says
-- Tushar Dhara
-- 2010-07-12T15:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/law-on-indian-regulators-jurisdiction-may-erode-autonomy-subbarao-says.html

          
          
             An Indian government law that
supersedes the jurisdiction of regulators, including the Reserve
Bank of India, may erode their autonomy, Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao said today.  
 India on June 18  issued an ordinance  amending laws
governing the central bank, Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority and the Securities and Exchange Board of India after
the insurance and stock market regulators sparred over unit-
linked products.  
 The RBI has “reservations” about the law “regarding
settling disputes on regulatory jurisdiction,” Subbarao told
reporters in New Delhi today after meeting Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee on the issue.  
 India has set up a panel, headed by Mukherjee for sorting
out issues of jurisdiction of hybrid products, such as unit-
linked plans, which are insurance policies sold by life insurers
who then invest the money collected into equity and debt markets.  
 Record stock purchases by insurers helped boost the
benchmark  Sensitive Index  81 percent in 2009, making it the
third-best performing equity market in Asia.  
 Indian insurance companies may increase investments in the
nation’s stocks by 24 percent to $21 billion in the fiscal year
that started April 1 as premium collections rise, according to
the average of estimates from  ICICI Prudential Insurance Co. ,
Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co., SBI Life and Birla Sun Life
Insurance Co.  
 Six-Month Validity  
 An ordinance is a legislative device that allows the
government to introduce a law when parliament is not in session.
Ordinances are valid for six months and need parliament approval
to become law.  
 The RBI has urged Mukherjee to allow the ordinance to lapse,
the Business Standard reported today, without saying where it
got the information.  
 “Any move to curtail the autonomy of financial regulators
is uncalled for,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , head of
equities at SMC Capitals Ltd. in New Delhi. “The finance
ministry it seems is more concerned about avoiding any further
disputes between the regulators.”  
 The  Securities and Exchange Board of India  on April 9
barred 14 life insurers from selling unit-linked products,
saying they were like mutual fund plans and were sold without
obtaining the approval of the stock market regulator. The
insurance regulator on April 10 countered the ban.  
 “I have reiterated our concerns and the finance minister
heard them kindly,” Subbarao said. “He will take a final
view.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
 Tushar Dhara  in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        