-- Babson Capital Plans to Boost Lending in Australia as Growth Spurs Buyouts
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-07-12T23:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/babson-capital-plans-to-boost-lending-in-australia-as-growth-spurs-buyouts.html

          
          
             Babson Capital Management LLC, the
$129 billion investments unit of Massachusetts Mutual Life
Insurance Co., plans to increase lending in Australia as
accelerating economic growth spurs mergers and acquisitions.  
 “The absolute level of returns for senior loans is quite
attractive in Australia” at a time when U.S. markets are
“sluggish,” said  Michael Hermsen , who co-heads mezzanine and
private equity for Springfield, Massachusetts-based Babson
Capital.  
 Senior loans that give priority rights to assets would
complement a Sydney-based mezzanine venture Babson Capital
started in March, said Hermsen, 49. Mezzanine financing, where
investors provide a blend of equity and debt to fund buyouts,
yields as much as 20 percent in Australia, he said in a phone
interview from Melbourne.  
 Five straight quarters of economic growth have prompted the
Reserve Bank of Australia to lead Group of 20 nations in raising
interest rates, with six increases since October. Blackstone
Group LP, TPG Capital and Carlyle Group bid A$1.8 billion ($1.6
billion) for Healthscope Ltd. in May, attempting the country’s
biggest buyout in two years, according to people with knowledge
of the matter.  
 Deprived of finance during the global credit crisis, buyout
companies worldwide plan to invest a record $507 billion of cash
raised before the collapse, triple the comparable figure in
December 2001, according to London-based researcher Preqin Ltd.  
 Babson Capital concentrates on lending to transactions
involving private equity firms because it’s found they are
better at correcting problems than other types of buyers,
Hermsen said.  
 “We don’t intend to compete with the banks, but we hope to
be able to participate in some of the financings they’re putting
together,” he said.  
 Babson Capital’s Sydney office has as much as A$75 million
to invest by yearend in mezzanine financing, said Hermsen. The
asset manager will decide next year whether to start offering
senior loans, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        