-- Bank of Canada Business Poll Shows Sales Optimism, Recovery `Progressing'
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-12T20:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/bank-of-canada-business-poll-shows-sales-optimism-recovery-progressing-.html

          
          
             The Bank of Canada says companies
expect  rising sales , payrolls and investment, suggesting the
country’s rebound is “progressing,” according to a quarterly
 survey  of executives.  
 Some 53 percent of senior managers said  sales growth  will
quicken over the next year, while another 29 percent expect
sales to slow, the Ottawa-based Bank of Canada said today in its
quarterly Business Outlook  Survey . After rounding, the so-called
balance of opinion on future sales declined to 25 percentage
points from 44 points three months ago.  
 “Businesses are generally positive about their near-term
sales prospects, although they are concerned about recent global
economic and financial uncertainties and possible spillover
effects in Canada,” the report said. The survey’s results
“indicate the economic recovery is progressing.”  
 Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  may raise his policy
interest rate for a second consecutive month on July 20,
according to  Stewart Hall  at HSBC Securities in Toronto. The
central bank said at its last decision June 1, when it raised
 the rate  to 0.5 percent from a record low 0.25 percent, that
further increases would depend on the strength of domestic
demand balanced against an uneven global expansion.  
 “It’s a very positive reading,” said  Derek Holt ,
economist at Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto. “The magnitude of
the sales recovery isn’t being compared to the depths of the
recession, so it’s natural to expect it to come off as it has.”
He predicts an interest rate increase next week to 0.75 percent.  
 Rate Increase Seen  
 Investors have fully priced in an increase in the Bank of
Canada’s policy rate to 0.75 percent next week, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG  calculation  derived from overnight index
swaps.  
 Canada’s dollar fell for the first time in five days as
stocks fluctuated, reducing the appeal of currencies from
nations that depend on commodities for growth. The Canadian
dollar declined 0.4 percent to C$1.0375 per U.S. dollar at 4
p.m. in Toronto, compared with C$1.0337 on July 9. One Canadian
dollar buys 96.39 U.S. cents.  
 The percentage of executives who said they would have
“some” or “ significant ” trouble meeting a surprise jump in
demand rose to 39 percent from 30 percent in the previous
survey. Last year, the balance fell to a record low 22 percent.  
 Hiring Plans  
 Some 38 percent of companies said they plan to increase
machinery and equipment investment over the next 12 months while
26 percent predicted less, for a balance of opinion of 12
percentage points. The last survey’s balance of opinion was 22
points.  
 Half of companies said they plan to increase payrolls,
while 10 percent expect to trim staff, giving a balance of
opinion of 40 percentage points, up from 38 in the last survey.  
 The balance of opinion on whether companies would charge
more for their goods was unchanged at 28 percent, remaining at
the highest level since the question was first asked in 1998.  
 Still, 95 percent of executives said  inflation  would
advance at an annual rate of between 1 percent and 3 percent
over the next two years, falling within the central bank’s
target range.  
 Regarding credit conditions, 18 percent of companies said
they had loosened while 8 percent said they were tighter, for a
balance of opinion of negative 10. The balance was negative 1 in
the previous survey.  
 A separate survey of lending officers suggested easier
credit conditions for a third straight quarter. The balance of
opinion on overall conditions was negative 24.79, with readings
less than zero indicating conditions became easier.  
 The business outlook survey canvassed about 100 managers
from May 19 to June 15. The senior loan officer survey gathered
responses from “major Canadian financial institutions” from
June 14 to June 16.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        