-- Bank of Japan May Face Pressure to Ease Policy After DPJ's Election Defeat
-- Keiko Ujikane
-- 2010-07-12T03:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/bank-of-japan-may-face-pressure-to-ease-policy-after-dpj-s-election-defeat.html

          
          
             Pressure on the Bank of Japan to
fight deflation is likely to increase following the coalition
government’s defeat in mid-term elections, economists said.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  lost control of parliament’s
upper house in yesterday’s contest, meaning he will have to
rely on smaller parties to pass laws smoothly. While that may
undermine his ability to cut the world’s largest  public debt ,
his adversaries at least agree on the need for a swift end to
the price declines that are undermining the economic recovery.  
 “The common understanding among parties during the
election was deflation shouldn’t be left unsolved,” said  Hideo Kumano , a former central bank official and now chief economist
at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “Pressure on the
BOJ will probably build.”  
 Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  and his colleagues are unlikely
to take action at a policy meeting this week, though the
prospect of slower economic growth and political coercion could
force them to ease monetary conditions in coming months, such
as by increasing bond purchases, said economist  Susumu Kato .  
 “The government may put more focus on escaping deflation
as its basic economic policy, at a time when economic growth is
set to slow,” said Kato, chief economist for Japan in Tokyo at
Credit Agricole CIB and CLSA. “The Your Party, especially, may
strongly call for further monetary easing.”  
 Pursue Alliances  
 Kan’s ruling Democratic Party of Japan won 44 seats,
compared with 51 for the opposition Liberal Democratic Party,
according to results compiled by public broadcaster NHK. Your
Party, a group founded by former LDP cabinet minister  Yoshimi Watanabe  that has advocated monetary easing, won 10. Half of
the 242 seats in the less powerful of Japan’s two houses of
parliament were up for grabs.  
 The prime minister, who took office last month, said he
wouldn’t step down after failing to meet his goal of winning at
least 54 seats, adding that he will pursue “policy-based”
alliances with other parties. Kan blamed his “insufficient”
explanation to the public of the need for a sales tax increase
as a reason for the defeat.  
 Your Party leader Watanabe said that while he isn’t
interested in joining Kan’s coalition, he will work with the
government “if we have common agendas” on specific issues. In
its campaign platform, the party, formed last year, said it
wants to set an inflation target and seek further monetary
easing to boost growth and tackle deflation.  
 Dai-Ichi’s Kumano and  Takahide Kiuchi  at Nomura Securities
Co. said financial-market volatility could be the trigger for
additional government pressure on the central bank.  
 Rising Yen  
 The yen has surged 4.7 percent against the dollar and 13
percent versus the euro in the past three months, threatening
to erode earnings among the exporters who have led Japan’s
recovery. Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  slid 15 percent in
the same period.  
 “The focus after the election will be on how the
government tries to overcome deflation and maintain stability
in financial markets and the economy,” Tokyo-based Kiuchi said.
“Given the nation’s severe fiscal condition, there’s little
room for the government to spend more, and so it will likely
demand additional measures from the central bank.”  
 The Nikkei rose 0.1 percent to 9,592.11 at the 11 a.m.
lunch break in Tokyo. The yen weakened 0.5 percent versus the
dollar and 0.2 percent against the euro. The yield on Japan’s
10-year bond fell half a basis point to 1.145 percent.  
 “Should the yen or bond yields surge, dependence on
monetary policy as a safety net will likely increase more and
more,” Kumano said.  
 ‘Very Accommodative’  
 Shirakawa said in a speech last week that he would
continue to pursue a “very accommodative” policy to combat
price declines.  
 The central bank cut the benchmark  interest rate  to 0.1
percent in December 2008. Following political pressure to
tackle  falling prices , last December it unveiled a 10 trillion
yen loan program for banks and doubled the facility in March.
In June, the bank released details of a separate 3 trillion yen
plan to encourage lending to companies.  
 Former Bank of Japan official  Hiromichi Shirakawa , who is
unrelated to the governor, said that the election loss means
Kan’s pursuit of a sales tax increase “will fade out and
monetary reflation may strengthen instead.”  
 “The BOJ is the one who is the most wary of the DPJ’s
debacle,” said Shirakawa, who is now chief Japan economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keiko Ujikane  in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Masaaki Shirakawa, governor of the Bank of Japan. Photographer: Kiyoshi Ota/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Martin Schulz, senior economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Japan's politics and implications for the economy.
     Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan lost control of parliament’s upper house, undermining legislative efforts to cut the world’s largest public debt and creating the possibility of a third leadership change in a year. The ruling Democratic Party of Japan won 44 seats, compared with 51 for the opposition Liberal Democratic Party, according to results compiled by public broadcaster NHK. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
