-- Barnes & Noble Poison Pill Trial Testimony Centers on Aletheia Fund Votes
-- Matt Townsend
-- 2010-07-12T18:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/barnes-noble-poison-pill-trial-testimony-centers-on-aletheia-fund-votes.html

          
          
             Barnes & Noble Inc. ’s fight with
billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos. for seats on the
bookseller’s board of directors may hinge on alliance of Yucaipa
with the investment fund Aletheia Research & Management Inc.,
according to court testimony.  
 If Aletheia, the third largest  shareholder  of Barnes &
Noble, teams with No. 2 stakeholder Yucaipa, the two would be a
“much more formidable” opponent for the company’s chairman and
controlling stockholder,  Leonard Riggio , Yucaipa’s proxy expert
testified.  
 Daniel H. Burch , chief executive officer of MacKenzie
Partners Inc., the expert, testified today before Delaware
Chancery Court Judge  Leo Strine Jr.  in Wilmington.  
 In support of the company’s poison pill anti-takeover
defense, a Barnes & Noble expert,  Peter C. Harkins , chief
executive of DF King &  Co., told Strine that a Yucaipa victory
for three vacant seats is “mathematically possible and
realistically attainable.”  
 Yucaipa sued Barnes & Noble, the largest U.S. bookstore
chain, in May, saying Riggio and other directors launched a
“self-dealing scheme designed to entrench the Riggio family”
and stop Burkle from accumulating shares and gain board seats.  
 The Riggio family owns about 32 percent of the stock;
Yucaipa, about 19 percent; and Aletheia, whose president is
 Peter Eichler , 16 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Aletheia President  
 In videotaped testimony, Eichler said he was “flattered
and thrilled” to meet Burkle last year and called him “a great
investor.”  
 Burkle wants to own as much stock as the Riggios. The
poison pill, a shareholder rights plan, could allow investors to
buy large amounts of stock at cut-rate prices, making a hostile
takeover prohibitively expensive. The Barnes & Noble pill would
be triggered if an outsider or group acquired 20 percent or more
of the shares.  
 Barnes & Noble claims the plan “is intended to protect our
shareholders from actions that are inconsistent with their best
interests.”  
 The trial continues tomorrow.  
 New York-based Barnes & Noble fell 41 cents to $12.87 at
2:35 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .  
 Yucaipa is based in Los Angeles and Aletheia in Santa
Monica, California.  
 The case is Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II LP v. Riggio,
CA5465, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Townsend  in New York
at   mtownsend9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        