-- Bernanke Says `Creditworthy' Small Businesses Can't Get Loans
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-12T18:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/bernanke-says-banks-must-do-all-they-can-to-get-loans-to-small-business.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said small businesses are having a tough time getting
loans they need to expand or stay afloat and keep the U.S.
economic recovery going.  
 Some creditworthy firms with “strong” cash flows and a
decline in collateral values are have trouble getting loans,
Bernanke said today in opening comments in Washington to a Fed-
hosted conference on efforts to reverse a drop in lending to
small businesses. The forum caps more than 40 meetings the Fed
has held around the U.S. since February.  
 The central bank chief is increasing pressure on lenders to
expand credit to help boost U.S. growth and employment after a
report this month showed private employers added fewer workers
to payrolls in June than forecast. Banks’ loans to small
businesses fell to $670 billion from $710 billion over the past
two years, Bernanke said, citing government data.  
 “Making credit accessible to sound small businesses is
crucial to our economic recovery and so should be front and
center among our current policy challenges,” said Bernanke, 56.
“Our message is clear: Consistent with maintaining
appropriately prudent standards, lenders should do all they can
to meet the needs of creditworthy borrowers.”  
 Last month, Bernanke and fellow  Fed policy makers 
reiterated a pledge to keep the main interest rate close to zero
for an “extended period” and said “tight credit” is still
holding back consumer spending.  
 ‘Very Difficult’  
 “The formation and growth of small businesses depends
critically on access to credit,” Bernanke said today.
“Unfortunately, those businesses report that credit conditions
remain very difficult.”  
 More broadly, U.S. commercial and industrial  loans  held by
banks have declined to $1.24 trillion as of June 30 from $1.6
trillion at the end of 2008, Fed data show.  
 Bernanke attended one of the series of meetings in Detroit
last month and today recalled a business owner’s comment there
that, “If you thought housing had declined in value, take a
look at what equipment is worth.”  
 Many proprietors have had to borrow on their personal
credit cards or from retirement accounts, Bernanke said.  
 Today’s conference, held at the Fed’s headquarters,
includes several panel discussions with government and industry
leaders and concludes with remarks from Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke , the only former commercial banker on the central bank’s
Board of Governors.  
 Bankers at the conference said they were willing to extend
credit and urged small-business owners to meet with their
community lenders.  
 ‘Confidence Issue’  
 “It’s a confidence issue,” said Jack Hopkins, director of
the Independent Community Bankers of America.  
 “We need to get confidence back into the markets, and
that’s difficult when we’re hovering around 10 percent
unemployment,” he said. Hopkins, who is also chief executive
officer of CorTrust Bank NA of Mitchell, South Dakota, said
community banks are “more than willing to lend.”  
 The House of Representatives last month passed a bill
that would create $30 billion plan to offer community banks
incentives to loan money to small companies. All but three
Republicans opposed the legislation, which they say amounts to a
bank bailout.  
 The bill “would be very helpful” and a “good boost to
the economy,” Hopkins said.  
 One problem banks face is “healthy borrowers not wanting
to borrow,” said  Kevin Watters , chief executive officer for
business banking at  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The New York-based
lender is “trying to get borrowers off the sidelines,” he
said.  
 Another challenge is that banks have “limited access to
information on which to make decisions” about lending to small
businesses,  Denise Pickett , an executive vice president at
American Express Co. Getting banks more and better information
about potential borrowers is “absolutely critical,” she said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke. Photographer: Ramin Talaie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
