-- BlackRock Targets BB Junk Bonds as `Rising Stars' Double: Credit Markets
-- John Detrixhe
-- 2010-07-13T16:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/blackrock-targets-bb-junk-bonds-as-rising-stars-double-credit-markets.html

          
          
             The highest-rated  junk bonds  are
attracting BlackRock Inc. and other investors as upgrades
accelerate, helping the securities lead gains in high-yield
corporate debt in a reversal from last year.  
 Bonds in the BB range, the top three levels of speculative
grade, have beaten the lowest-ranked groups by 178 basis points,
or 1.78 percentage points, since the start of the second
quarter, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
Securities ranked CCC and below returned 157 basis points more
in the first three months of the year.  
 BlackRock, Invesco Ltd., ING Investment Management and
Prudential Investment Management Inc., with combined assets of
more than $4.73 trillion, are seeking BB rated debt instead of
lower-ranked companies that stand to lose the most should the
U.S. economy slow. The economy will grow 2.8 percent through the
middle of next year, according to the median estimate of 52
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, down 0.1 percentage point
from last month’s forecast.  
 “They offer attractive yield premium,” said  Curtis Arledge , chief investment officer of fixed income at New York-
based BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager. “Soggy
sideways is my outlook for the economy. I think we’re going to
go sideways for a very long time because generally final demand
is weak and consumers are still deleveraging.”  
 Rising Stars  
 Moody’s Investors Service upgraded 19 U.S. companies to
investment quality, known as rising stars, through June,
compared with 7 during the same period of 2009 and 10 for all of
last year. Yields relative to government bonds in the BBB group
are 253 basis points below BB debt, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes. The gap between BB and the B group is 157
basis points.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of government debt fell 1
basis point to 191 basis points, the narrowest spread since May
24, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index shows. Yields averaged 3.94 percent, down from
3.97 percent on July 9.  
 Target Corp. , the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
plans to sell $1 billion of debt as soon as today in its first
bond offering since January 2008, according to a person familiar
with the transaction. Proceeds from the sale of 10-year notes
may be used to repay existing debt, fund capital expenditures of
constructing new stores, remodel existing stores, finance share
repurchases and acquire real estate, other assets and companies,
Minneapolis-based Target said today in a regulatory filing. The
filing didn’t include the size or timing of the sale.  
 Credit-Default Swaps  
 The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell to the lowest in more than three weeks. Credit-default
swaps on the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 3.18 basis points to
a mid-price of 108.73 basis points as of 11:58 a.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-grade ratings
dropped 1.57 to 115.03, Markit prices show.  
 The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  
 Bonds rated BB are attracting investors speculating on
upgrades to investment quality, or because they’re “being paid
a healthy coupon” with little risk of default, said Arledge of
BlackRock, which oversees $3.36 trillion of assets.  
 “My view is more of an income reason,” he said. “We’re a
little more defensive about going too far down in credit risk
within high yield, so we would not be as interested in CCC
credit.”  
 Default Rate  
 The default rate for high-yield securities, rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, will
be 2 percent through the end of 2011, JPMorgan analysts led by
 Peter Acciavatti  wrote July 9 in a research report. The U.S.
economy will grow 3.1 percent this year and 3 percent in 2011,
JPMorgan predicted.  
 “We’re actually starting to see companies upgraded from
junk status to investment grade, which can be a boon obviously
for the bondholders,”  Michael Collins , senior investment
officer at Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential, which has about
$240 billion of fixed-income assets under management. “High-
grade investors tend to have a very hard line that they draw in
the sand, discerning between investment grade and high-yield
companies.”  
 Reversal From ‘09  
 The performance of the highest-rated junk bonds marks a
switch from 2009 when CCC debt handed investors 96.8 percent
returns, the best in the corporate credit market. BB securities
gained 45.2 percent.  
 “Last year in the rebound it was all about how many CCCs
could you buy,” said  Matt Toms , head of U.S. public fixed
income investments in Atlanta at ING, which manages about $550
billion in assets. “This year it’s much more about which names
or sectors you’re exposed to in the rating class. Managers who
can choose securities on a more granular level are being
rewarded.”  
 Spreads on speculative-grade bonds narrowed 3 basis points
to 685, the fourth straight decline, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Master II Index. The
extra yield investors demand to own junk bonds instead of
Treasuries will tighten to 525 basis points by the end of the
year, the JPMorgan analysts wrote.  
 Higher quality junk bonds “will be the top performing
sector of the last half of the year,” said  Lloyd McAdams , chief
investment officer at Santa Monica, California-based Pacific
Income Advisers, with $4.5 billion of assets under management.
“A company that actually can take capital and employ it and
grow faster than the economy, even though they’re paying high-
yield rates, will start attracting the attention of the
analysts.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        