-- Bovespa Declines for First Time in Four Days as Oil, Metals Prices Retreat
-- Alexander Cuadros
-- 2010-07-12T20:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/bovespa-stock-index-futures-fluctuate-on-lower-inflation-bets-commodities.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index fell
for the first time in four days as declining commodity prices
dragged down producers, overshadowing reports that signaled
inflation pressures may be easing in Brazil and China.  
 Iron-ore producers Vale SA and  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA 
led declines as metals prices fell.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA , the
nation’s state-controlled oil company, dropped as signs that
U.S. economic growth may falter pushed down the price of crude.
The Bovespa’s drop was limited as  BM&FBovespa SA , the owner of
Latin America’s biggest bourse, rose after Chief Executive
Officer Edemir Pinto said Brazilian and Hong Kong firms may be
able to list shares on each other’s local exchanges.  
 The Bovespa fell 0.8 percent to 62,960.10 after gaining as
much as 0.8 percent in the first hour of trading. More than
three stocks fell on the measure for every one that gained. The
real weakened for the first time in four days, losing 0.5
percent to 1.7633 per dollar.  
 “There are a million doubts in the air -- growth, Europe,
China,” said  Alexandre Ghirghi , who helps manage 130 million
reais ($73.7 million) at Metodo Investimentos in Sao Paulo.
“The market’s lacking much definition. We’re going to have
three interesting weeks, with earnings season starting today.”  
 Oil halted a three-day advance in New York as traders
viewed last week’s climb above $76 as excessive, given signs
that U.S. economic growth may falter.  
 Inflation Forecasts  
 Retail sales in the U.S., the world’s biggest energy user,
probably fell in June for a second month and industrial
production cooled, economists said before reports this week.
China, the world’s second-largest energy consumer, reported
record oil imports in June.  
 Brazil economists reduced their estimates for inflation and
the central bank’s benchmark lending rate this year. Consumer
prices may climb 5.45 percent in 2010, according to the median
forecast in a July 9 central bank survey of about 100 economists
published today. That’s lower than their forecast of 5.55
percent last week.  
 The central bank will raise the benchmark Selic rate to 11
percent at its meeting next week, taking borrowing costs to 12
percent by year-end, the survey showed. Last week, the
economists forecast a rate of 12.13.  
 Economic Expansion  
 Latin America’s biggest economy expanded at the fastest
pace since 1995 in the first quarter, led by domestic demand and
a record surge in investments. The central bank raised interest
rates twice this year to 10.25 percent from a record low 8.75
percent in March in a bid to slow economic growth.  
 Reports in China stoked speculation the government may
relax tightening measures. China’s property prices snapped 15
months of gains in June with values in 70 cities falling 0.1
percent from the previous month, the statistics bureau said in
Beijing today. New lending of 603 billion yuan ($89.1 billion)
last month was the least in three months, the central bank said
in a report yesterday.  
 China’s economic growth for the April-to-June period, to be
announced on July 15, may still have topped 10 percent for a
third straight quarter, a Bloomberg News survey of economists
shows.  
 Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, fell for the
first time in four days, losing 1.7 percent to 38.33 reais,
while  MMX Mineracao , the iron-ore producer controlled by
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , declined the most in two
weeks, slipping 3.6 percent to 10.60 reais. Petrobras, as the
state oil company is known, lost 1.3 percent to 27.23 reais.
 BM&FBovespa SA  gained 0.9 percent to 11.84 reais.  
 The  Bovespa index  trades for 12 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.7 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.5
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 14 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 Markets were closed July 9 for a Sao Paulo holiday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        