-- BP Gains on Bid to Stop Leaking Gulf Well, Possible Sale of Alaska Assets
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-07-12T16:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/bp-advances-on-report-of-alaskan-asset-sales-speculation-about-exxon-bid.html

          
          
             BP Plc  jumped the most in 20 months
in London trading on speculation the company may succeed in
halting the biggest oil spill in U.S. history this week as it
negotiates the sale of assets in Alaska.  
 BP  climbed  9.4 percent, the most since November 2008, to
close at 398.95 pence in London. That’s 31 percent higher than
the low reached June 25. The shares are still down 39 percent
since the April 20 accident in the Gulf of Mexico that triggered
the leak.  
 The producer said it may be able to cut off the flow of oil
from the damaged well this week, beginning with a pressure test
today. Separately, BP is in talks to sell assets to Apache Corp.
for a price of less than $12 billion, people familiar with the
matter said yesterday. That deal alone would put BP ahead of its
target of $10 billion in asset sales to help cover spill costs.  
 “There’s limited material downside after the well is
capped,” said  Jason Kenney , an analyst at ING Wholesale Banking
in Edinburgh. “You can put Alaska in a pot beside Argentina,
Colombia, Venezuela and Vietnam assets that are being looked
at.”  
 If the well passes the 48-hour test, BP may shut it,  Doug Suttles , BP’s chief operating officer for exploration and
production, told reporters. The relief wells BP is drilling will
still be needed to permanently plug it, he said.  
 Spill Costs  
 BP scrapped its dividend and said last month it will sell
some assets to raise $10 billion for cleanup costs, fines and
legal damages from the Gulf spill. The company said today it has
spent $3.5 billion on the spill. It agreed to establish a $20
billion fund for damage claims with President  Barack Obama  last
month.  
 The drop in BP shares has prompted speculation that it may
be taken over.  
 Exxon Mobil Corp. , based in Irving, Texas, has been told by
the U.S. government it can look at a potential bid for BP, the
London-based Sunday Times reported, citing unidentified people.  
 “If Exxon shows its hand, there would be others queuing up
behind it,” ING’s Kenney said. “ BP  screams out as being cheap
at the minute because the value of its assets is about $90
billion more than the current enterprise value.”  
 It is unlikely that Exxon will actually bid for BP, Kenney
said. Robert Dye, a spokesman for  Apache , and Max McGahan, a BP
spokesman, declined to comment on the asset sales. Exxon
declined to comment on its reported interest in BP.  
 BP fell 13 percent on June 1 after an attempt to plug the
leak by injecting mud and debris from the top of well failed.
Relief wells, which will intersect the damaged Macondo well near
the bottom to stop the flow of oil and gas, are running ahead of
schedule and may be completed this month, National Incident
Commander  Thad Allen  said last week.  
 The cost of insuring BP debt against default fell for the
ninth straight day, dropping 35.5 basis points to 335.5,
according to CMA DataVision, the lowest since June 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        