-- BP Advances on Alaskan Asset Sales, Exxon Speculation
-- Brian Swint
-- 2010-07-12T12:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/bp-climbs-on-speculation-about-exxon-takeover-bid-sales-of-alaskan-assets.html

          
          
             BP Plc , battling to contain the
biggest oil spill in U.S. history in the Gulf of Mexico, rose on
reports it is selling assets in Alaska and  Exxon Mobil Corp.  may
consider a bid for the company.  
 BP  climbed  as much as 7.2 percent, the most in a month, and
traded at 390 pence as of 1:26 p.m. in London. That’s 28 percent
higher than the low reached June 25. The shares are down 40
percent since the April 20 accident that started the oil leak.  
 BP is in talks to sell assets to Apache Corp. for a price
of less than $12 billion, people familiar with the matter said
yesterday. That deal alone may put BP ahead of its target of $10
billion in asset sales to help cover spill costs.  Exxon , based
in Irving, Texas, has been told by the U.S. government it can
look at a potential bid for BP, the Sunday Times of London
reported, citing unidentified people.  
 “The sentiment of takeover speculation is proving positive
for the stock,” said  Jason Kenney , an analyst at ING Wholesale
Banking in Edinburgh. “If Exxon shows its hand, there would be
others queuing up behind it.  BP  screams out as being cheap at
the minute because the value of its assets is about $90 billion
more than the current enterprise value.”  
 It is unlikely that Exxon will actually bid for BP, Kenney
said. Robert Dye, a spokesman for  Apache , and Max McGahan, a BP
spokesman, declined to comment on the asset sales. Exxon
declined to comment on its reported interest in BP.  
 Obama Agreement  
 BP may stop the flow of crude from the leaking Gulf of
Mexico well after a pressure test today, National Incident
Commander  Thad Allen  said in an interview on CNN. Relief wells
will still be needed to permanently plug it, he said.  
 BP scrapped its dividend and said last month it will sell
some of its assets to raise $10 billion for cleanup costs, fines
and legal damages from the Gulf spill. The company said today it
has spent $3.5 billion on the spill. It agreed to establish a
$20 billion fund for damage claims with President Barack Obama
last month.  
 BP is working to install a new, tighter-fitting cap over
its leaking well that it intends to capture all the escaping
crude. The old cap was removed to make way, allowing more oil to
escape until the new cap is secured sometime this week, Senior
Vice President  Kent Wells  said yesterday.  
 Wells told reporters during a conference call that BP so
far is pleased with how the effort is proceeding. “Whatever the
flow is, we’ll capture it all at some point.”  
 Failed  
 BP fell 13 percent on June 1 after an attempt to plug the
leak by injecting mud and debris from the top of well failed.
Relief wells, which will intersect the damaged Macondo well near
the bottom to stop the flow of oil and gas, are running ahead of
schedule and may be completed this month, Allen said last week.  
 “Shares deserve to be well above 500 pence, but it’s not
going to get back to 600,” ING’s Kenney said. “Within three to
six months, you should have a significantly re-rated stock.
There’s limited material downside after the well is capped.”  
 The cost of insuring BP debt against default fell for the
ninth straight day, dropping 35.5 basis points to 335.5,
according to CMA DataVision, the lowest since June 8.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The BP Plc company logo is displayed outside the company's headquarters in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Vincent Boland of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the outlook for BP Plc to stop its leaking oil well in the Gulf of Mexico and expectations for the company to sell some of its assets. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Lizzie O'Leary reports on the status of BP Plc's relief well in the Gulf of Mexico to help stop its oil leak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
