-- BP Credit Default Swaps Fall, Apache's Rise Amid Alaska Sale Speculation
-- Mary Childs
-- 2010-07-12T22:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/bp-credit-default-swaps-fall-apache-s-rise-amid-alaska-sale-speculation.html

          
          
             The cost to protect  BP Plc ’s bonds
against default fell for a ninth straight day on speculation the
company may succeed in halting the biggest oil spill in U.S.
history this week and as it negotiates the sale of assets in
Alaska.  
 Credit-default swaps on London-based BP dropped to the
lowest since June 8, losing 36.5 basis points to 334 at 4:30
p.m. in New York, and contracts on Apache Corp. gained 14.9
basis points to 104.9, according to CMA DataVision prices. BP is
in talks with Apache to sell assets, including its Alaska
business, for less than $12 billion, two people familiar with
the discussions said.  
 “Investors are finally recognizing BP’s situation is less
dire than was once priced in,” said  Guy Lebas , chief fixed-
income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia. “Anyone who’s willing to invest and provide
additional liquidity to BP is benefiting the corporation’s
credit quality at present.”  
 BP said it may be able to cut off the flow of oil from the
damaged well this week, beginning with a pressure test today.
Its swaps, which drop in price as investor confidence in the
company’s creditworthiness improves, have fallen for the past
nine days, the longest streak since at least October 2004. They
had soared more than 12 times the level of April 20, the day of
the rig explosion that triggered the oil spill.  
 BP’s American depositary receipts climbed 8 percent today
in New York. “The equity tail is wagging the credit dog,” said
 Michael Donelan , who oversees $3.5 billion of bonds at Ryan Labs
Inc. in New York. “The news has turned more even-sided to
slightly positive.”  
 Improved Outlook  
 Moody’s Investors Service upgraded its outlook for the
refining and marketing sector to stable from negative, also
boosting energy companies, Lebas said.  
 Default swaps dropped on three companies tied to BP’s
leaking oil well. Contracts on Transocean Ltd. decreased 42
basis points to 447.3 and those on Halliburton Co. fell 12 basis
points to 152.1, CMA data show. Swaps on Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. declined 41.8 basis points to 477.8.  
 A benchmark measure of U.S. credit default swaps climbed
from a three-week low, rising for the first time in a week as
investors await the start of the second-quarter earnings season.  
 The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 1.5 basis point to a
mid-price of 112 basis points as of 5:07 p.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd. The index ended July 9 at the
lowest since June 21.  
 Earnings Season  
 Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum producer,
unofficially kicked off the U.S. earnings season today. Twenty-
three companies in the S&P 500, including JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Bank of  America  Corp. and Citigroup Inc., will report earnings
this week.  
 “This week obviously is the start of earnings with Alcoa
starting off today and then the focus will be on bank
earnings,” said  Rajeev Shah , a credit strategist at BNP Paribas
SA in London. “We’re taking a breather and just waiting for
some confirmation of earnings, where there has been talk of
financial earnings probably disappointing.”  
 Alcoa posted earnings excluding one-time items of 13 cents
a share, exceeding the 11-cent average estimate of 17 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Second-quarter profit at financial firms
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will increase 81 percent from
a year earlier, according to the average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Credit-default swaps on Alcoa declined 25 basis points to
354.8 basis points, according to CMA. Contracts on Bank of
America fell 3.7 basis points to 136.2, and those on JPMorgan
eased 3.6 basis points to 96.1, CMA data show.  
 Buyout Rumor  
 Exxon Mobil Corp. swaps rose after reports that it may make
a bid for BP. The price of its bond protection climbed 11 basis
points to 56.4, the highest since March 2009, according to CMA.  
 The Sunday Times in London reported the U.S. government
told the largest publicly traded  company  it can look at a
potential bid for BP, citing people that it didn’t identify.  
 “My understanding of what’s going on with Exxon’s bid for
the company is that it’s no more than rumor at this point,”
Lebas said. “There’s no basis one way or another.”  
 XTO Energy Inc.’s credit-default swaps climbed 3.5 basis
points to 43.7, according to CMA, after the wholly owned unit of
Exxon Mobil said it would start cash tender offers for its
outstanding 7.5 percent senior notes due 2012 and 6.25 percent
senior notes due 2013.  
 Credit swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying security if a borrower fails to meet its debt
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC, talks about the outlook for BP Plc and his investment strategy for energy stocks.
     BP is in talks with Apache Corp. to sell assets, including its Alaska business, for less than $12 billion, two people familiar with the discussions said. Larry talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
