-- BP Moves Toward Finally Plugging Gulf Oil Gusher
-- Jessica Resnick-Ault
-- 2010-07-13T14:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/bp-may-stop-flow-of-oil-from-gulf-of-mexico-well-after-pressure-test-today.html

          
          
             BP Plc  plans to start testing today
on a new cap over its leaking Gulf of Mexico well to determine
whether it can stop the largest U.S. oil spill in history while
continuing work on a permanent plug.  
 Starting about noon local time, a 40-foot (12-meter) stack
of valves secured atop the well yesterday will shut off the flow
of crude, BP Senior Vice President  Kent Wells  told reporters on
a conference call. The test will measure pressure inside the
well to determine whether the cap can remain in place without
causing oil to burst uncontrolled through another opening.  
 BP seeks to halt the leak, estimated by the U.S. government
at as much as 60,000 barrels of oil a day, until its Macondo
well can be plugged with cement next month. The London-based
 company  said the new cap has pressure-monitoring equipment that
wasn’t available in May, when it abandoned an effort to seal the
well from above. Without that equipment, operators wouldn’t know
if shutting the valves forced oil to gush out elsewhere.  
 “If the integrity says we need to open the well back up,
we will immediately start collecting oil again” through a
system piping crude to vessels on the surface, Wells said.  
 The Macondo well has been spewing oil into the ocean since
an April 20 drilling-rig explosion that killed 11 workers. The
Helix Producer I, a floating oil-production ship, was collecting
crude at a rate of 12,500 barrels a day this morning, Wells
said.  
 Shares Gain  
 BP rose as much as 5.2 percent in London. Before  rallying 
this month, leading all stocks in the U.K.’s benchmark FTSE 100
 index , the company had lost more than half its market value
since the spill began.  
 BP and Obama administration officials will review data on
the pressure test to decide whether they can keep the valves
shut and seal the leak. Extending the test another 48 hours also
is an option,  BP  said in a statement.  
 Oil may resume flowing from the well while officials
determine their next step, said John Curry, a BP spokesman.
Efforts to capture and funnel the oil to vessels on the surface
also will resume, he said.  
 BP and the government halted previous efforts to stop the
leak on May 29, after a so-called top-kill technique in which
drilling mud was injected into the well failed. BP then focused
on capturing oil.  
 Stack of Valves  
 The new  cap  contains three large valves, or rams, like
those used in blowout preventers, which oil and gas drillers use
to halt unexpected surges in pressure, BP spokesman Bill Salvin
said yesterday. The Macondo well’s blowout preventer failed,
Wells told a presidential commission investigating the disaster.  
 The well can be sealed if it withstands the expected
pressure once the valves on the new cap are closed,  BP  said. The
company postponed installation of the valve stack by about half
a day to make sure that slush-like gas hydrates didn’t form as
the equipment was put in place,  Doug Suttles , chief operating
officer for exploration and production, said yesterday.  
 Hydrates foiled BP’s first effort at containing oil from
the well on May 8, plugging a 40-foot-tall steel chamber that
was to have funneled oil and natural gas to the surface.  
 Should the pressure test fail,  BP  has two vessels in place
that can receive as much as 33,000 barrels of oil a day from the
well. Capacity can be increased to 60,000 a day later this
month, the company said. The Helix Producer I began drawing oil
to the surface for processing yesterday.  
 Even if the valve stack stops the leak,  BP  said it will
need to finish drilling a well to permanently plug Macondo. The
first of two relief wells, started May 2, is on schedule to
intercept Macondo by the end of July, BP said. Plugging it may
take until mid-August, Suttles said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Jessica Resnick-Ault  in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Oil gushes from a valve atop the failed blowout preventer (BOP) at the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill site in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana, in an image captured by the Skandi remotely operated underwater vehicle (ROV) camera. Source: BP Plc via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Lizzie O'Leary reports on the status of BP Plc's relief well in the Gulf of Mexico to help stop its oil leak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Vincent Boland of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton about the outlook for BP Plc to stop its leaking oil well in the Gulf of Mexico and expectations for the company to sell some of its assets. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
