-- BP Turns to Macondo Contractors in Latest Effort to Stop Spill
-- Allison Bennett
-- 2010-07-12T19:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/bp-turns-to-macondo-well-contractors-in-latest-effort-to-stop-gulf-spill.html

          
          
             BP Plc , seeking to stop the biggest
oil spill in U.S. history, is employing at least two of the
service providers whose equipment was involved in the April 20
rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico that triggered the disaster.  
 Transocean Ltd. , whose Deepwater Horizon rig was drilling
the well that blew out in April, supplied parts for the 40-foot
(12-meter) stack of valves that BP is using today to stop the
flow of leaking oil, said Bill Salvin, a spokesman for the oil
producer.  Cameron International Corp. , which supplied the so-
called BOP that BP said failed to contain a pressure surge that
led to the blast, tested the valves, he said.  
 BP plans to use the 80-ton valve stack to stop the leak
from its Macondo well, estimated by the U.S. government at as
much as 60,000 barrels of crude a day, until permanent plugging
can be done in August. President  Barack Obama  criticized
executives from BP and contractors Transocean and  Halliburton
Co.  for “falling over each other to point the finger of blame”
in Congressional hearings in May.  
 “They might as well do it with someone they are already
paying and who is the best in the world at what they do,”  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Pritchard Capital Partners LLC in Houston,
said of employing Transocean. “The casing getting blown up,
causing BOP failure, was not a Cameron fault, and they are still
the best, if not in the top two, in subsea blowout prevention.”  
 Transocean, Cameron Fell  
 Salvin, speaking today in a telephone interview, said he
wasn’t familiar with the process that London-based BP used in
choosing contractors for the valve stack. Geneva-based
 Transocean  has lost 42 percent of its market value since the rig
explosion, which killed 11 workers. Cameron, based in Houston,
tumbled 13 percent the day after a report showed that it
supplied the Deepwater Horizon’s blowout preventer.  
 A unit of Australia’s WorleyParsons Ltd. designed the
fitting connecting the valve stack to Macondo’s blowout
preventer, or BOP, Salvin said. Oil States Industries Inc., a
unit of Houston-based  Oil States International Inc. , fabricated
the fitting, he said.  
 BP and its contractors were in the process of sealing the
well, located about 40 miles (64 kilometers) from the Louisiana
coast, when the explosion occurred. The Deepwater Horizon caught
fire and sank two days later.  
 BP extended a lease for  Transocean ’s Discoverer Enterprise
drillship to collect crude it’s capturing from the leaking well.
It’s using other Transocean rigs to drill relief wells that aim
to intercept and plug Macondo.  
 “They needed the rigs, and they’re not going to get them
anywhere else,” said  Jud Bailey , an analyst at Jefferies & Co.
in Houston. “They didn’t really have a choice, so they are
using the resources they already have under contract, plus
Transocean rigs are the only ones in the Gulf that can store and
process oil.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     President Barack Obama criticized executives from BP and contractors Transocean and Halliburton Co. for “falling over each other to point the finger of blame” in Congressional hearings in May.Photographer: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Lizzie O'Leary reports on the status of BP Plc's relief well in the Gulf of Mexico to help stop its oil leak. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
