-- Brazil to Start Talks With ALL, Vale to Cut Freight Costs, Minister Says
-- Katia Cortes
-- 2010-07-12T17:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/brazil-will-start-talks-with-all-vale-to-cut-freight-costs-minister-says.html

          
          
             Brazil’s government will start talks
with ALL America Latina Logistica SA,  Vale SA  and other railroad
operators about new rules designed to boost competition and cut
freight costs, Transportation Minister  Paulo Sergio Passos  said.  
 President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  will issue a decree
“soon” that aims to increase the sharing of railways and put
idled tracks back into operation, Passos said in an interview.
Under the new regulatory framework, the government would grant
licenses to use a portion of the rail’s capacity rather than
awarding the full rights to a single company or group, he said.  
 “By doing that, we’ll cut freight costs and create more
competition,” Passos said July 8 in Brasilia. “Existing
contracts will be respected.”  
 Brazil wants companies such as ALL, Vale and  MRS Logistica
SA  to help expand the nation’s rail network, which hasn’t kept
up with record output of  soybeans , coffee and other commodities,
Passos said. The investments will help increase the percentage
of goods transported by rail to 35 percent by 2025 from 25
percent now, according to the Transportation Ministry. That
compares with 43 percent in the U.S. and 37 percent in China.  
 “If we consider the pace of growth for grain and oilseed
output, Brazil is still far from its limit,” Passos said.  
 Control of Concessions  
 Rio de Janeiro-based Vale and Curitiba, Brazil-based ALL
hold two-thirds of the rail concessions granted in the South
American nation, according to the National Association of
Railroad Operators. Vale and ALL’s press offices declined to
comment. MRS Logistica didn’t return messages seeking comment.  
 “The government will need to negotiate well with the
operators to avoid judicial disputes,”  Rosangela Ribeiro , a
utilities analyst for Sao Paulo-based SLW Corretora de Valores e
Cambio Ltda, said in a telephone interview today. “If the
government is willing to negotiate, then it’s going in the right
direction.”  
 Ribeiro rates ALL a “hold” and doesn’t own shares of the
company.  
 Brazil’s rail freight rates may fall as much as 40 percent
because of the government’s new rules,  Bernardo Figueiredo , head
of the land transportation agency, said in a July 6 interview.  
 ‘Far’ From Capacity  
 Brazil’s government will be responsible for building all
tracks under the new regulations, which will help the nation add
15,000 kilometers (9,300 miles) by 2020, Passos said. Out of a
current rail network of 28,476 kilometers, less than half is
being used to its full capacity, he said.  
 “Requiring the main private groups to allow other players
to use their network by paying a fee is not sustainable,” Itau
Securities analysts  Renata Faber  and  Fernando Abdalla  said in a
July 7 note to clients. “At the end of the day, we believe that
these new measures will only be applied to new concessions.”  
 Brazil’s central bank said June 30 that it expects the
country’s economy to expand 7.3 percent in 2010, the fastest
pace in more than two decades. The bank in March forecast growth
of 5.8 percent this year.  
 Soybean  output in Brazil, the world’s second-largest
producer after the U.S., will rise to a record 68.7 million
metric tons this year, while corn output will increase to a
record 53.5 million tons, the Agriculture Ministry said July 8.  
 Dependency on Roads  
 Brazil aims to cut its dependency on roads to 30 percent of
total goods transported by 2025 from 58 percent now, the
Transportation Ministry said. In Brazil, it costs an average of
$27 per ton to transport goods by rail, less than a third of the
$117 per-ton cost to use roads, according to Rio de Janeiro-
based Logistics and Supply Chain Institute.  
 ALL fell 1.2 percent to 14.31 reais at 1:49 p.m. in Sao
Paulo trading. Vale SA declined 1.6 percent to 38.40 reais.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
 Katia Cortes  in Brasilia at  at
 kcortes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        