-- Brazilian Bond Underwriters Buying Record Amount of Debt on Waning Demand
-- Gabrielle Coppola
-- 2010-07-12T22:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/brazilian-bond-underwriters-buying-record-amount-of-debt-on-waning-demand.html

          
          
             Brazilian banks are buying more of
the bonds they are underwriting than at any time in at least
five years as Europe’s debt crisis damps investor demand for
corporate debt.  
 Managers of the 17 billion reais ($9.7 billion) of local
bond sales this year held onto  7.8 billion reais , or 44 percent
of the total, up from 41 percent for all of last year and the
highest percentage since the country’s  capital markets
association  began collecting data in 2006.  
 Banks are stepping in as investors demand higher returns
and maturities of three years or less for Brazilian corporate
debt after credit-rating downgrades in Greece, Spain and
Portugal fueled concern the global recovery was faltering, said
Lauro Augusto Campos, superintendent of credit analysis for
SulAmerica Investimentos, which manages $9 billion of assets.
Companies are trying to sell bonds due in as long as seven
years, he said.  
 “Investors are asking for more yield and short maturity,”
Campos said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “If
investors aren’t interested, the banks have to keep it in their
proprietary portfolio.”  
 Most corporate bonds sold in Latin America’s biggest
economy offer yields linked to the interbank overnight rate,
known as DI. The rate closed at 10.14 percent, which is 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, below the central bank’s 10.25
percent target.  
 Bandeirante Bonds  
 Campos said he prefers corporate debt maturing in four
years or less. He purchased some of the six-year notes that
Bandeirante Energia SA, a Sao Paulo-based electricity
distributor, sold last week because he found the rate of 150
basis points above the overnight rate attractive.  
 With futures traders predicting central bank President
 Henrique Meirelles  will raise the overnight  rate target  to 12
percent by year-end, the yield on the Bandeirante notes would
climb to about 13.5 percent. That compares with a yield of 11.34
percent on government fixed-rate notes due in January and 12.22
percent on fixed-rate bonds due in 2014, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Meirelles has boosted the target rate 150 basis points from
a record low of 8.75 percent in April to cool the nation’s
fastest economic expansion in 15 years.  
 The average maturity on Brazilian local corporate bonds
rose to about five years in the first half of 2010 from four
years in 2009, according to the capital markets association,
known as Anbima, in Sao Paulo.  
 Mercantil, BM&FBovespa  
 Banks are willing to keep the bonds on their books because
the securities pay attractive yields and are easier to trade
than loans, said  Joao de Biase , head of debt capital markets at
Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Brazil’s biggest bank by market value.
Itau has bought some of the bonds it underwrote this year, he
said.  
 “The capital market is not going longer than three, four
or five years for AAA names locally,” de Biase said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “In order to fill that gap,
the banks are lending more money to big corporations in huge
amounts.”  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar-
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell six basis points to 223 at
6:29 p.m. in New York, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell two basis points to 126, according to CMA
DataVision prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value
in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 Real Declines  
 The real fell 0.3 percent to 1.7607 per dollar. The average
yield on Brazilian corporate dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries
dropped 23 basis points last week to  327 , the lowest in more
than two weeks.  
 Banco Mercantil do Brasil SA, a Brazilian bank based in
Minas Gerais, sold $200 million of 10-year subordinated notes
last week. BM&F Bovespa SA, the owner of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, issued $612 million of 10-year debt.  
 Banco do Brasil SA , the country’s biggest state-controlled
bank, declined to comment on its bond underwriting business,
according to its press department in Brasilia. An official for
 Banco Bradesco SA,  the country’s second-biggest bank by market
value, in Sao Paulo declined to comment.  
 ‘Risk Concentration’  
 The amount of bonds held by banks is growing after a new
rule allowed companies to sell debt more quickly through private
sales than public offerings, de Biase said. Banks buy more of
the securities in such sales, which target so-called qualified
investors, than in public deals, he said. Private offerings
totaled 39 percent of the first-half sales, up from 19 percent
in the same period of 2009, according to Anbima.  
 Underwriters concerns of adding to their “risk
concentration” by holding onto the bonds is partly offset by
the “good return,” said  Ceres Lisboa , a Brazilian bank analyst
with Moody’s Investors Service in Sao Paulo.  
 “It’s not that they’re holding them just because they were
the underwriters and they want to help the company,” Lisboa
said in a telephone interview. “In terms of profitability,
these debentures pay quite a bit.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Brazil central bank President Henrique Meirelles has boosted the target rate 150 basis points from a record low of 8.75 percent in April to cool the nation’s fastest economic expansion in 15 years. Photographer: Marcia Zoet/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
