-- British Airways Union Urges Shareholders to Seek Pay Compromise From Walsh
-- Steven Rothwell
-- 2010-07-13T16:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/british-airways-union-to-ask-shareholders-to-press-compromise-from-walsh.html

          
          
             British Airways Plc ’s cabin-crew
union appealed to investors at their annual meeting to press for
a compromise in an 18-month dispute over pay and  staffing 
levels. Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  told the gathering
that there’ll be “no fudging” in his drive to cut costs.  
 The Unite union distributed a letter to shareholders
entering today’s meeting at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference
Centre in London seeking “an end to management by conflict,”
and a banner outside said: “Give peace a chance.”  
 The 12,000 flight attendants at Europe’s third-largest
airline are in the second week of voting on Walsh’s latest
contract offer. While Unite says new proposals on pay may prove
acceptable, it also wants the CEO to give ground on the
withdrawal of travel perks and suspension of striking workers.  
 “The difficult thing for Unite is that a minority of their
members are not going to get their travel concessions fully
reinstated, so the union has a difficult job to find a way of
placating them,” said  Geoff van Klaveren , a Deutsche Bank AG
analyst in London with a “hold” rating in the carrier.  
 Strikes by cabin crew have grounded flights at London-based
British Airways for 22 days this year at a cost of 154 million
pounds ($234 million), Unite estimates. The walkouts have
hampered the company’s ability to benefit from a rebound in
demand for global air travel, though Walsh says all inter-
continental services will operate in any fresh stoppage.  
 Weaker Position  
 “If BA is able to operate almost all their long-haul
flights during the dispute, that makes the union’s bargaining
position weaker than it was a year ago,” van Klaveren said.  
 Unite is staying neutral in the current pay ballot, which
ends on July 20, saying it can’t back Walsh’s offer because he
won’t negotiate on the perks or disciplinary matters.  
 Should the CEO’s proposals be rejected, the dispute and
associated “instability” will continue into the autumn, hurting
earnings further, the union said in the letter to investors.  
 Even if the deal is accepted, an improvement in morale
“above all” requires the restoration of travel concessions,
which would come at no cost to the company, Unite said, adding
that employees will also be angry about the “heavy-handed” use
of suspensions and “fearful” for their future at the company.  
 Basis for Deal  
 Walsh told investors that British Airways is in dispute
with the  BASSA branch of Unite , which represents cabin crew,
rather than with the majority of workers, and that he’s hopeful
the latest proposal will be seen as a way of ending the dispute.  
 “We are absolutely determined to make what changes are
necessary to ensure that British Airways is competitive in the
future,” he said. “There is no fudging of this issue. Our
costs must be brought into line with those of our competitors.”  
 Cabin-crew costs at Dubai-based long-haul carrier Emirates
are probably less than half those at British Airways, he said.  
 Chairman  Martin Broughton  said Walsh’s strategy has his
full support and that the company has the backing of its biggest
shareholders and clients, with whom it is in “constant touch.”  
 British Airways rose 1.1 percent at 207 pence in London
today. The stock has gained 11 percent this year, valuing the
company at 2.39 billion pounds.  
 Walsh is trying to cut costs after the global recession
pushed it to a record 425 million-pound  loss  in the fiscal year
through March. The carrier also faces increasing competition on
its long-haul routes from Middle-Eastern carriers such as
Emirates and Qatar Airways Ltd.  
 Crew Cuts  
 Walsh cut plane staffing levels in November and estimates
that the airline can save 160 million pounds annually within 10
years. Of that total, about 60 million pounds will come from the
reduction in crew complements and the rest from establishing a
parallel fleet using new attendants on less-generous contracts.  
 Passenger traffic at British Airways fell 11 percent in May
after flights were lost to strike action, just as industry-wide
demand jumped almost 12 percent, based on International Air
Transport Association figures. Traffic at the company fell a
further 11.5 percent in June as the walkouts continued.  
 Extended stoppages could cost 1.4 billion pounds in lost
sales as people switch to discount carriers such as EasyJet Plc,
researchers at Manchester Business School estimate.  
 Broughton today reiterated that British Airways aims to
break even at the level of pretax earnings. The company is also
targeting a 6 percent increase in revenue, he said.  
 Business Flights  
 While the trading environment is still “harsh,” corporate
bookings are continuing to pick up, especially on the most
lucrative North Atlantic routes, the chairman said.  
 Regulators in the U.S. and European Union should deliver
final rulings on the deepening of the U.K. carrier’s alliance
with AMR Corp.’s American Airlines in the near future, with all
signs suggesting antitrust immunity will be granted, he said.  
 British Airways is also confident that a plan to reduce its
pension deficit will be approved by Iberia Lineas Aereas de
Espana SA in September, paving the way for a merger between the
carriers before the end of this year. Should the deal go ahead,
the new company’s annual meeting will take place in Madrid.  
 Air France-KLM Group, Europe’s biggest airline and one of
British Airways’ biggest rivals in the long-haul market, said
today it has entered a code-sharing agreement with Flybe, the
U.K.’s biggest domestic carrier.  
 According to the deal, Air France will be able to sell its
own tickets on 45 new services between Britain and France via
Flybe flights, as well as 17 new routes within the U.K. Flybe
will gain access to five additional services to France, seven
new domestic French routes and 11 international destinations.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     British Airways Plc CEO Willie Walsh. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The tail fins of British Airways aircraft are seen at Terminal 5 of Heathrow airport in London. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
