-- Buffett May Be Deposed in Former Berkshire Manager's Lawsuit
-- Andrew Frye
-- 2010-07-13T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/buffett-may-give-statements-under-oath-in-former-berkshire-manager-s-suit.html

          
          
             Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , may be
ordered to submit to questioning under oath in a wrongful-
dismissal lawsuit.  
 Brad Mart, a former executive at Berkshire unit Forest
River Inc., petitioned for a deposition of Buffett to
demonstrate the parent company’s role in his firing, according
to a June 17 motion in federal court in South Bend, Indiana.
Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire, one of the defendants named in
Mart’s lawsuit, has said it wasn’t involved in the dismissal. In
a July 6 brief, Berkshire asked the court to protect Buffett
from questioning.  
 The request to depose Buffett, the world’s third-richest
person, escalates a conflict that already includes Mart’s
allegations of fraud and threats of violence at Forest River,
the Elkhart, Indiana-based recreational vehicle maker. Mart’s
chance of winning a settlement may improve if the judge orders
the deposition, said lawyers including Robert F. Parker of
Merrillville, Indiana-based Burke Costanza & Cuppy LLP.  
 “There’s no denying that that can have an effect on how
the defense looks at the litigation,” Parker, who isn’t
involved in the Berkshire case, said in an interview. “The word
might come down, ‘Fight this deposition as hard as you can but
if we lose, settle the case.’”  
 Companies including BP Plc have tried to block efforts to
depose executives.  John Browne , the former chief executive at
BP, fought for 18 months against a court-ordered deposition tied
to a 2005 explosion at a refinery in Texas before going under
oath. BP tried to protect Browne, arguing that he had no unique
knowledge of the blast that killed 15.  
 Gates’s Deposition  
 Bill Gates was described by U.S. District Judge  Thomas Penfield Jackson  as unresponsive after portions of a videotaped
deposition by the Microsoft Corp. co-founder were played at a
1998 government antitrust trial.  
 Buffett isn’t accused of wrongdoing. His deposition would
help determine facts of the case, and may lead to his testimony
at trial. Buffett didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
request for comment sent to an assistant.  
 The court may withhold an order for a deposition of
Buffett, at least temporarily, and direct Mart to seek discovery
through affidavits and interviews with lower-ranking Berkshire
employees, lawyers said.  
 “Before you go straight for the top dog, you gotta lay
some foundations,” said  Dean Rauchwerger , a Clausen Miller PC
lawyer and co-author of “Top-Dog Depositions, the Hurdles to
Overcome,” a  2006 report . “It’s a little bit of a wrestling
match.”  
 Mart requested Buffett’s deposition to combat Berkshire’s
claim that the firm should be dropped from the lawsuit for lack
of jurisdiction.  
 Indiana Law  
 Berkshire , the parent company, doesn’t do business in
Indiana and shouldn’t be subject to courts in that state, the
company said in a June 1 request to dismiss the case. Mart said
Berkshire’s control over Forest River submits the firm to
Indiana law and Buffett’s statements can help show that.  
 “In this case, Berkshire Hathaway did direct substantial
contacts towards Indiana, including the expectation that Forest
River comply with its codes of procedure,” said J. Richard
Moore, a partner at Alford, Clausen & McDonald LLC in Mobile,
Alabama. “That really is probably the best hook to establish
that the Indiana court has personal jurisdiction over Berkshire
Hathaway.” Moore isn’t involved in the case.  
 Berkshire, built by Buffett through four decades of
 acquisitions , employs more than 200,000 people at businesses
that build homes, produce power, sell insurance and haul freight
by rail. Buffett picks the CEOs of each of Berkshire’s more than
70 operating units and oversees the firm with a staff of about
20 at the company’s Omaha headquarters.  
 Forest River  
 Buffett, 79, bought Forest River in 2005 and left its CEO,
Peter Liegl, in charge of the unit. Mart, who helped arrange the
$800 million sale to Berkshire, was fired last year after he
went to Buffett and accused Liegl of fraud, according to the
April complaint.  
 Liegl required Forest River to buy parts at inflated prices
from a company he owned and appropriated cash from factory
vending machines, Mart said. Liegl also reneged on a promise to
make Mart CEO, according to the complaint. Mart alleged in the
suit that Liegl threatened his life.  
 “There is no legitimate basis to the allegations of the
threats or the fraud,” said  Jeanine Gozdecki , lead attorney for
Liegl and Forest River. “We will vigorously defend these claims
on behalf of the company and on behalf of Pete Liegl.”
Gozdecki, of Barnes & Thornburg LLP, is seeking a dismissal.  
 No Berkshire Role  
 Liegl said in a sworn statement that he runs Forest River
independently of Berkshire and the parent company didn’t play a
role in his decision to fire Mart. Liegl, who is also a
defendant in the case, didn’t mention the allegations of fraud
in a statement in support of his motion for a dismissal.  
 Mart has also asked to depose Berkshire Chief Financial
Officer  Mark Hamburg  and Secretary  Forrest Krutter . The company
offered Hamburg in exchange for Mart’s renouncing his request
for depositions of other executives including Buffett, according
to court filings. Mart rejected that offer. Berkshire’s Krutter
declined to comment.  
 Mart’s lawyer,  Stephen Kennedy , of Kennedy Clark & Williams
PC in Dallas, said it would be inappropriate to comment. Kennedy
made the deposition request.  
 Judge  Christopher Nuechterlein  scheduled a hearing for July
26 to consider Mart’s requests for discovery.  
 The case is Mart v. Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3:10-cv-00118,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Warren Buffett, chief executive officer of Berkshire Hathaway speek during a meeting in Omaha. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
