-- Carlyle Group Joins Hunt for U.S. Health-Plan Acquisitions
-- Jason Kelly
-- 2010-07-12T14:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/carlyle-group-joins-hunt-for-health-plan-acquisitions-after-u-s-overhaul.html

          
          
             Private-equity firms Carlyle Group
and GTCR Golder Rauner LLC are looking to buy medical insurers,
made newly attractive by a surge of customers expected from the
U.S. health-care overhaul.  
 Buyout managers are focused on health plans with enrollment
of 500,000 or less, particularly those specializing in coverage
for the poor, said Chip Clark, a partner at New York-based Ernst
& Young LLP, who advises potential buyers. If those companies
stay independent, they may struggle with new taxes and
regulations from the overhaul signed into law in March, he said.  
 The legislation will add $100 billion in taxes on insurers
during the next decade and limit administrative expenses,
executive pay and premiums. By 2020, the law also may add 16
million people into government-funded Medicaid programs, often
administered by private companies, said  David Katz , a principal
at Chicago-based GTCR, which has invested $8 billion since 1980.  
 “We’re trying to figure out how to build good companies
that help the existing Medicaid managed-care companies, as well
as the various state Medicaid agencies,” Katz said in an
interview. Medicaid programs, funded by the federal government
and the states, cover low-income people.  
 Carlyle sees medical insurers as “an attractive investment
opportunity,” said  Karen Bechtel , the managing director who
heads the company’s health-care team. Carlyle “will likely
continue to make investments in this sector,” she said in an e-
mail. The company, based in Washington, is the second-biggest
private-equity firm, after  Blackstone Group LP  in New York.  
 Largest Insurers  
 Investors such as Carlyle buy companies and sell them
later, often to larger players in the same industry or by
arranging initial public offerings of stock. The largest health
insurers,  UnitedHealth Group Inc.  of Minnetonka, Minnesota, and
 WellPoint Inc.  of Indianapolis, have grown partly through
acquisitions.  
 The firms are also looking at commercial insurers and those
administering Medicare, the U.S. plan for the elderly and
disabled, according to a health-care industry consultant who
said he had spoken with partners at Carlyle and GTCR. The
consultant spoke on the condition of anonymity because he wasn’t
authorized to disclose clients’ thinking.  
 The health law cuts $130 billion in subsidies to private
plans that administer Medicare. While that may make the business
less attractive, the law leaves industry a role in a program
expected to grow as the U.S. population ages, said  Thomas A. Scully , a general partner at Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe, a
New York-based private-equity firm with $20 billion in assets.  
 ‘Great Place to Be’  
 “I don’t think Medicare reform has been anywhere as bad as
people think, and I think Medicaid is a great place to be,”
said Scully, who led the  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services , the Baltimore-based federal agency, from 2001 through
2003. Scully expects “a lot of deals by the end of this year,”
he said in an interview.  
 Scully declined to discuss Welsh Carson’s plans.  
 While insurers can outbid private-equity firms in most
cases, the added interest may force publicly traded companies to
pay more or speed up acquisitions, said  Ana Gupte , an insurance-
industry analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York.  
 The firms may raise costs for  Coventry Health Care Inc ., a
Bethesda, Maryland-based insurer that’s specialized in snapping
up smaller rivals, she said in an interview.  
 Coventry Deal  
 Coventry had 4.84 million members as of March 31, according
to a regulatory filing. The company has agreed to acquire MHP
Inc., a 180,000-member health plan now owned by the Sisters of
Mercy Health System in Chesterfield, Missouri, according to a
June 30 statement. While the terms weren’t disclosed, Gupte
estimated the cost of the purchase at $100 million.  
 Drew Asher , Coventry’s senior vice president for corporate
finance, didn’t respond to a request for comment on July 8.  
 Candidates for consolidation include more than 100
commercial insurers, about 240 offering Medicare, and as many as
165 with Medicaid, Gupte said. The companies have 500,000 or
fewer members each, she said.  
 “The industry has this very fragmented tail that could
benefit from some streamlining and consolidation,” Gupte said.
Buyout firms “could pick them up at fairly good prices and then
make them more efficient” by modernizing computer systems or
cutting staff. “Then when the overhang lifts from health-
reform, they could flip them” to larger insurers, she said.  
 Judging by enrollment,  Arcadian Health , a closely held,
Oakland, California-based plan offering Medicare policies to
65,000 seniors, and  AvMed Health Plans , a Miami-based insurer
with 300,000 members, may be the kind of targets that would
interest private-equity firms, Gupte said. Gupte knows of no
offer for either, she said.  
 Arcadian Inquiries  
 Arcadian has gotten inquiries from private-equity and
 insurance-company  suitors alike, and expects interest to
increase as the effects of the health-care law become clearer,
said  Robert Fahlman , the plan’s chief executive officer.
Arcadian isn’t for sale, and sees opportunity to grow on its own
as Medicare rolls expand,  Fahlman  said in an interview.  
 “The transactions you’re going to see out there right now,
the acquirers are bottom-fishing for price and valuation,” he
said. “Our investors and our board are very patient and they’re
in it for the long-term.”  
 AvMed Health Plans is owned by Gainesville, Florida-BASED
SantaFe HealthCare Inc. AvMed “is not looking to partner with
anyone,” said Conchita Ruiz-Topinka, a spokeswoman for SantaFe
HealthCare and AvMed, in an e-mail. “We think our Florida focus
and strong local ties will serve us well in this new era.”  
 ‘Middle-Market Companies’  
 Among buyout firms, “middle-market” companies seeking
transactions valued at $500 million to $1 billion are showing
the most interest, said Clark, the Ernst & Young partner.  
 “We have had these conversations,” Clark said in an
interview. “With the state of impending change that there is in
health care, they see some opportunities, and maybe see some of
these opportunities ahead of some other potential buyers.”  
 Private-equity firms may find a niche partnering with
Medicaid insurers looking to grow, said J.  Andrew Cowherd , a
managing director at Peter J. Solomon Co., a New York-based
adviser to investment banks.  Amerigroup Corp.  of Virginia Beach,
Virginia, and  Centene Corp.  of St. Louis are among Medicaid
specialists that may need help consolidating smaller rivals,
Cowherd said in an interview.  
 The private-equity firms “would be their bank account to
go do some acquisitions,” Cowherd said.  
 Tara Wall , an Amerigroup spokeswoman, and Deanne Lane, a
Centene spokeswoman, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Nussbaum  in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net  or
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
2397 or  jkelly14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        