-- Catastrophe Bonds Decline for Eighth Week as La Nina May Fuel Storm Season
-- Hugh Son
-- 2010-07-12T17:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/catastrophe-bonds-decline-for-eighth-week-as-la-nina-may-fuel-storm-season.html

          
          
             Catastrophe bonds, used by investors
to bet against natural disasters, slipped for an  eighth  straight
week on reports that ocean conditions may create a busier-than-
usual Atlantic hurricane season.  
 The  Swiss Re Cat Bond Price Return Index  fell 0.10 percent
July 9, marking the longest streak of declines since July 2008
for the benchmark, which prices every Friday. A La Nina weather
pattern, cooling the equatorial Pacific Ocean, is likely to form
by August, increasing the number and intensity of Atlantic
storms, the U.S. Climate Prediction Center  said  last week.  
 “Some investors might be sitting on the sidelines due to
these forecasts,” said  Judy Klugman , a managing director at
Swiss Re Capital Markets, which issues and underwrites the
securities. “They’re looking at the forecasts and saying, ‘You
know what, maybe now is not the right time to enter this
market.’”  
 Insurers including  American International Group Inc.  and
Assurant Inc. sell the bonds as an alternative to reinsurance
for hurricanes and earthquakes. The U.S. said in May the season
may be “extremely active” with 14 to 23 named storms. La Nina
may boost that figure because it reduces high-altitude winds
that impede Atlantic storm development, according to the  center ,
part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  
 During a La Nina, storms have a “much greater likelihood
of becoming major hurricanes, and of eventually threatening the
U.S. and Caribbean islands,” the climate center said.  
 Most Active Season  
 This year’s hurricane season may be the most active since
2005, which was the worst on record with more than 1,500 U.S.
deaths and $115 billion in damage, Moody’s Investors Service
said last month. The season began June 1 and ends Nov. 30. The
first hurricane of the season, Alex, formed last month near the
Yucatan Peninsula and came ashore in Mexico about 100 miles
south of Brownsville, Texas.  
 Proceeds from cat bond sales are invested in collateral,
such as government bonds, that is used to pay interest to
investors and payouts to the bond’s seller if a pre-defined
disaster occurs.  
 Catastrophe bonds gained a record 5.2 percent last year on
a mild season that didn’t produce a named storm until Aug. 15.
The Swiss Re index, which doesn’t reflect interest payments,
fell 7.3 percent in 2008 as hurricanes Ike and Gustav struck and
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  failed.  
 Lehman had sold contracts to protect four catastrophe bonds
through so-called total return swaps, and the firm’s 2008
collapse spurred underwriters to back subsequent securities with
safer assets, contributing to last year’s rebound. There are
about $14 billion of the securities outstanding, according to
Zurich-based  Swiss Reinsurance Co.   
 Sales Increase  
 Swiss Re, Allianz SE and AIG’s Chartis property-casualty
unit were among sellers of a total of about $2.4 billion in cat
bonds this year through early June, a 70 percent increase from
the same period in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Chartis issued $425 million in catastrophe bonds in May to
mitigate hurricane and earthquake risk. The bond’s $250 million
slice will pay 8.25 percentage points more than three-month
Treasury bills. The second slice yields 6.25 points above the
benchmark. Fixed-income investors earn more than benchmark rates
for taking the risk they could lose their principal in the event
of a disaster that meets pre-defined conditions.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        