-- CEOs Questioning Obama Policies Put on Boards in `Co-Optation'
-- Kate Andersen Brower
-- 2010-07-12T13:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/ceos-who-question-obama-policies-picked-for-u-s-boards-in-co-optation-.html

          
          
             Last month,  Verizon Communications
Inc.  Chairman  Ivan Seidenberg  accused the federal government of
“injecting uncertainty into the marketplace.” Last week, he
was named to a presidential panel on U.S. exports.  
 President  Barack Obama  is trying to embrace corporate
executives, even while tension between the White House and
business community rises, as he seeks to get companies to step
up investment and spur the economy. For executives, joining
White House panels offers an inside track to influence policy.  
 “Obama is employing an age-old strategy used by presidents
that’s known as co-optation,” said  Ross Baker , a political
scientist at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, New Jersey.
“You bring into the bosom of your administration outsiders who
are either hostile or might become hostile and lock them in.”  
 White House councils include executives such as  Jim Owens 
of  Caterpillar Inc. ,  Glenn Tilton  of  UAL Corp.  and  Alan Mulally 
of  Ford Motor Co.  While not hostile, all have raised concerns
about policies ranging from taxes to trade to health care.  
 “Part of the president’s leadership style is not to simply
surround himself with people who agree with him 100 percent,”
senior adviser  Valerie Jarrett  said in an interview.  
 Obama last week announced the appointment of 18 members of
the President’s Export Council to help reach a goal of doubling
exports during the next five years to $3.1 trillion.  
 ‘Host of Laws’  
 Among those chosen were  Walt Disney Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Iger ,  Pfizer Inc.  Chairman and CEO  Jeffrey Kindler , Mulally and Tilton.  Boeing Co.  CEO  Jim McNerney  was
picked in March to be chairman.  
 The announcements came amid complaints from some U.S.
executives about everything from new federal regulations to
Obama’s criticism of banks and other industries.  
 “It is without question, the most hostile administration
to business and to the role of business that we’ve had in
decades,”  Mort Zuckerman , chairman of  Boston Properties Inc .,
said July 9 on MSNBC. Zuckerman, also publisher of the New York
Daily News, was among a group of CEOs who had lunch with the
president in January.  
 Obama rejected the idea he’s anti-business, saying in a
speech that same day in Las Vegas that part of the government’s
job is “to give an impetus to businesses to grow and expand.”  
 The Obama administration has asked business leaders to
identify government regulations that leaders see as obstacles to
investment in private job creation. It’s part of a continuing
review of federal regulations that began during Obama’s
transition to the White House, a spokeswoman said today.  
 White House ‘Open’  
 “We are open to the input from everyone including the
business community as we continue to work together to balance
our goal of providing rules of the road to protect the American
people while fostering an environment that will stimulate growth
and job creation,” said  Jennifer Psaki , the spokeswoman. “We
have also been clear that there are issues we will continue to
disagree with some in the business community on, including the
need for a set of new regulations for the financial industry.”  
 Obama has reached out to business executives in hosting
frequent luncheons at the White House.  
 Seidenberg’s appointment was announced after a June 22
 speech  to the Economic Club of Washington in which he said “a
host of laws, regulations and other policies” were hurting
corporate innovation and investment.  
 “By reaching into virtually every sector of economic life,
government is injecting uncertainty into the marketplace and
making it harder to raise capital and create new businesses,”
said Seidenberg, who’s also CEO of New York-based Verizon and
heads the  Business Roundtable , an executives’ group in
Washington.  
 Business Support  
 Seidenberg said in a statement last week he’s “delighted
to help in any way I can” in serving on the panel. “The
president should be commended on his leadership, and we
unconditionally support his effort on the export issue.”  
 Jarrett said the administration recognizes “the importance
of certainty to the business community.”  
 She called Seidenberg and invited him and Business
Roundtable President  John Castellani  to the White House for a
June 30 meeting to discuss issues such as the tax code.  
 “Ivan said what he thought and the stakes are too high to
allow a comment here or there to interfere with what’s best for
the American people,” she said.  
 White House spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  said Seidenberg was first
asked to join the export panel several months ago.  
 Memo to Orszag  
 Owens, chairman of Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar and a
member of the president’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board, last
month joined Seidenberg in sending a  49-page memo  to White House
Budget Director  Peter Orszag  listing legislation that has “a
dampening effect on economic growth and job creation.”  
 Topping the list of topics were financial rules, including
new rights for shareholders to nominate directors, trade and the
health-care overhaul, according to the letter, written for the
Business Roundtable and the Business Council, which Owens heads.  
 UAL Chairman and CEO Tilton, who the president named to his
export council, has voiced opposition to a proposed cap on
carbon emissions that Obama supports,  telling  the UK Aviation
Club earlier this year “taxes rob the industry of the money
needed to invest in new, cleaner technology.”  
 ‘Critical Role’  
 In an e-mailed statement July 7, Tilton said he is
participating in the export council because the industry will
“play a critical role” in expanding exports.  
 Ford CEO and President Mulally backs the effort to forge a
free-trade agreement with South Korea that Obama supports,
although the executive is pressing to include provisions to help
open the country’s market to automotive imports.  
 “We hope to use this perch to work closely with the
government to expand the export of manufactured goods,”  Steve Biegun , vice president for international government affairs at
the Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker, said of Mulally’s
membership on the panel.  
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former adviser to Republican
presidential candidate  John McCain , said while Obama has brought
executives “inside the tent,” he “goes right out demagoguing
against CEOs and corporations and enacting a policy agenda with
which they wholeheartedly disagree.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at   kandersen7@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Verizon Communications Inc. Chairman Ivan Seidenberg. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
