-- Chilean Economists See Half-Point Interest Rate Increase to 1.5% This Week
-- Randy Woods
-- 2010-07-12T15:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/chilean-economists-see-half-point-interest-rate-increase-to-1-5-this-week.html

          
          
             Chile’s central bank will raise its
benchmark interest rate by a half-point this week to 1.5 percent
as inflation exceeds policy makers’ target for the year,
according to a survey of economists.  
 Reduced factory capacity after Chile’s February earthquake,
coupled with surging consumer demand, may push inflation to 3.5
percent this year, exceeding the bank’s target of 3 percent,
according to the median estimate of 35 economists surveyed by
the central bank. Consumer prices will increase 0.5 percent in
July from June, according to the July 9 survey published today.  
 The country’s economy, which in May grew at the fastest
annual pace in almost five years, may have expanded 5.6 percent
in June from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
34 economists in the survey. Economic and inflation data show
that policy makers will need to increase interest rates on July
15 for the second straight month, said  Jorge Selaive , chief
economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones in Santiago.  
 “We’ll have an increase of no less than 50 basis points
this week,” Selaive said in a telephone interview today. “The
minutes of this week’s meeting, which will be published more
than two weeks after the meeting, will show policy makers
discussing increases of 50, 75 and 100 basis points.”  
 A basis point equals 0.01 percentage point.  
 The Chilean peso was little changed at 539.30 per dollar at
11:05 a.m. New York time. The peso may strengthen to 530 per
dollar in September before weakening to 536 in June 2011,
according to survey.  
 GDP Outlook  
 The survey showed that economists expect gross domestic
product to expand 4.8 percent for the full year, up from the 4.5
percent estimate in last month’s survey. The economists raised
their 2011 growth forecast to 5.8 percent from 5.7 percent in
the June survey.  
 Economic growth figures for May, which exceeded the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey, were partially
behind the higher growth estimates in the July survey, Selaive
said.  
 “There’s a migration toward higher growth estimates, which
probably will be reflected in the central bank’s next quarterly
monetary policy report,” according to Selaive, who said he was
one of the economists who participated in the central bank
survey.  
 Policy makers in the bank’s most recent quarterly monetary
report, published June 16, estimated the economy will grow 4
percent to 5 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Randy Woods  in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        