-- China Wins Higher Debt Rating Than U.S. in First Report by Chinese Company
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T05:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/chinese-company-issues-sovereign-ratings-in-challenge-to-west-daily-says.html

          
          
             A Chinese company gave its own
government a higher debt rating than the U.S., U.K. and Japan in
the nation’s first sovereign ranking because of widening
deficits in the developed world.  
 Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. rated U.S. government debt
AA with a negative outlook, and China AA+ with a stable outlook,
the company said in a report covering 50 nations published on
its website. The yuan-denominated rating is higher than Japan’s
AA- and the same as Germany’s, Beijing-based Dagong said.  
 “It’s rational to give China a higher rating than the U.S.
and Japan, because its debt level is much lower,” said  Shi Lei ,
an analyst at Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s third-largest
lender by market value. “More Chinese companies may offer
sovereign ratings, but it’s hard for them to get accepted by
foreign investors.”  
 Dagong’s rating report gave “markedly” different
valuations to 27 countries compared with those of Moody’s
Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, the
statement said. The euro has slumped 12 percent this year on
concern that Europe’s fiscal crisis may expand beyond Greece and
Spain to Germany and France.  
 “This marks a new beginning for reforming the irrational
international rating system,” Chairman  Guan Jianzhong  said in a
statement. “The essential reason for the global financial crisis
and the Greek crisis is that the current international rating
system cannot truly reflect repayment ability.”  
 Moody’s gives China a local-currency debt rating of A1,
four below the U.S. rating of Aaa.  
 Dagong leads the Chinese rating market in corporate bonds,
financial bonds and structured-financing debt, according to the
China Daily, which  reported  the ratings today.  
 The foreign-currency rating of China, which has $2.45
trillion of reserves, is the top-ranked AAA, the agency said. It
didn’t give details of its ranking system.  
 -- Nerys Avery ,  Judy Chen . Editor:  John Liu ,  Sandy Hendry   
 To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7558 or
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        