-- China Inflation Threat May Recede on Slower Loan Growth, Property Prices
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T03:33:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/china-inflation-pressures-may-ease-as-credit-curbs-cool-property-lending.html

          
          
             China’s  property prices  snapped 15
months of gains and bank lending eased in June, indicating that
curbs on credit may diminish inflation pressures even as record
exports support growth.  
 Real-estate prices in 70 cities fell 0.1 percent from the
previous month, the statistics bureau said in Beijing today.  New
lending  of 603 billion yuan ($89 billion) was the least in three
months, the central bank said in a report yesterday.  
 China’s  economic growth  for the April to June period, due
to be announced on July 15, may have topped 10 percent for a
third straight quarter, a Bloomberg News  survey  of economists
shows. Sustaining the expansion of the world’s third-biggest
economy may be harder in the second half as a real-estate
slowdown damps construction, local-government investment faces
constraints, and austerity measures in Europe cool export demand.  
 “China’s second-quarter growth likely remained strong, but
exports, infrastructure investment and the property market face
downside risks,” said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. Easing price pressures
may leave officials room to “loosen some policies, particularly
in the fourth quarter, to sustain growth,” Shen said.  
 China’s June  exports  climbed a more-than-forecast 44
percent to $137 billion, customs bureau data showed July 10,
signaling that, so far, global demand has withstood Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  
 Property Price Cuts  
 Property prices climbed 11.4 percent from a year earlier,
the statistics bureau said, compared with a record 12.8 percent
increase in April. Price cuts by China Vanke Co., the nation’s
biggest listed developer, have been among signs the market is
cooling as the government cracks down on speculation.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.8 percent as of
10:26 a.m. local time amid speculation that the government could
relax curbs on mortgage lending.  
 Harvard University professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said July 6
that a “collapse” in real estate is beginning, while Barclays
Capital forecasts prices may fall as much as 30 percent in the
next 12 months.  
 Restraining price pressures is one of Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
key goals after lenders flooded the economy with cash from late
2008 to drive the nation’s rebound from the global financial
crisis. Weaker money-supply growth may make that task easier.
 M2 , the broadest measure, expanded 18.5 percent in June, the
least since December 2008, the central bank said.  
 Currency Reserves  
 Meantime, China’s foreign-exchange reserves had their
smallest quarterly gain since 2001, climbing $7.2 billion to
$2.454 trillion, the report showed.  
 Consumer prices  may have climbed 3.3 percent in June, the
most in 20 months, according to the survey of analysts ahead of
this week’s announcement. That number will be boosted by the
comparison with a year earlier, when prices were falling.  
 Inflation may peak at 4 percent this month, then slow for
the rest of the year, according to state economist  Zhu Baoliang ,
the Shanghai Securities News reported today.  
 The government may loosen this year’s 7.5 trillion yuan
new-lending quota for banks in the fourth quarter, when a
slowdown in inflation will be “well established,” Morgan
Stanley said in a report today.  
 Customs officials, while hailing a recovery in exports to
pre-financial crisis levels, said Europe’s debt woes and the
“sharp decline” in the value of the euro have started to affect
sales to that region. At home, the Chinese government is
grappling with risks including the danger that bad loans will
pile up from an explosion in local-government borrowing.  
 The  China Banking Regulatory Commission  estimates that
outstanding loans to funding vehicles set up by local
governments rose 70 percent to 7.38 trillion yuan at the end of
2009 from a year earlier. The State Council has ordered tighter
controls.  
 -- Li Yanping . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Nerys Avery .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kenneth Rogoff, Harvard University professor of Economics  
                       
                         
                           Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Harvard University professor Kenneth Rogoff said July 6 that a “collapse” in real estate is beginning, while Barclays Capital forecasts prices may decline as much as 30 percent in the next 12 months. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Harvard University professor Kenneth Rogoff said July 6 that a “collapse” in real estate is beginning, while Barclays Capital forecasts prices may decline as much as 30 percent in the next 12 months. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Shen Jianguang, Greater China chief economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about the outlook for China's economy and exports.
     China’s overseas sales jumped 43.9 percent in June from a year earlier to $137.4 billion and the trade surplus more than doubled to $20 billion, the highest level in eight months, the government said July 10. Shen, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses China's real estate market and central bank monetary policy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Ben Simpfendorfer, chief China economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the implications of sovereign debt crisis in Europe on China's exports to the region. 
     China’s unexpected rebound in overseas shipments to a record last month may lose pace as the European crisis, a moderating U.S. recovery and yuan gains curb demand for goods from the world’s largest exporter. Simpfendorfer, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses China's currency policy and property market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 6 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Rogoff, professor at Harvard University and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's real estate market and economy.
     Rogoff, speaking in Hong Kong, also discusses the outlook for European banks, the global economy and stimulus policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
