-- China's Insurers Fall After Regulator Plans Removal of Interest-Rate Caps
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T06:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/china-life-china-pacific-decline-on-plan-to-remove-interest-rate-controls.html

          
          
             China Life Insurance Co.  and China
Pacific Insurance (Group) Co. tumbled in Shanghai trading after
the regulator said it plans to remove a cap on the guaranteed
rate of return for some life insurance contracts, scrapping a
decade-old ceiling that helped contain price competition.  
 China Life , the nation’s biggest insurer, fell 6.7 percent,
the most since Nov. 28, 2008, to 23.00 yuan as of 2:04 p.m.
local time.  China Pacific  declined 6.6 percent. Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co. shares are suspended pending an
announcement on a restructuring of its bank unit.  
 The China Insurance Regulatory Commission  said July 9  it
plans to allow insurers to decide the “preset interest rate”
paid to holders of traditional life insurance policies. Price
competition will likely intensify and squeeze profit margins,
while the increased attractiveness of such contracts may slow
down sales of other types of products, said  Olive Xia , a
Shanghai-based analyst at Core Pacific Yamaichi.  
 “The short-term negative impact on life insurers is fairly
obvious,” Xia said in a phone interview today. “The market
will need some correction in evaluations to digest the impact.”  
 Companies were asked to submit their feedback to the
proposal by July 20, according to the statement. The regulator
cut the ceiling on preset interest rates for all life insurance
policies to 2.5 percent in June 1999, after insurers racked up
losses as price competition drove returns paid to policyholders
above investment yields. The higher the preset rate is, the
cheaper the insurance policies are for customers.  
 ‘Controllable’ Impact  
 Traditional life insurance  refers to contracts with
premiums and policyholder benefits already set when they are
written, the regulator said. Such contracts, which focus on risk
coverage and compare to participating policies and investment-
related products, account for less than 20 percent of China’s
insurance market by premiums, according to Xia.  
 “The overall impact on the industry is controllable,”
Guosen Securities Co. analysts  Shao Ziqin  and  Tong Chengdun  said
in a report yesterday. “Given the environment of low market
rates, the likelihood of vicious competition and a repeat of the
high interest rate contracts is small.”  
 Least Affected  
 Ping An , China’s second-biggest insurer, will be least
affected by any increase in the guaranteed rate of return given
the company’s lowest proportion, at 9.7 percent, of traditional
policies out of the total individual life premiums, the Guosen
Securities analysts said. That compares to China Life’s 45
percent and Pacific Insurance’s 50 percent.  
 The  profit margin  of life insurance companies will be
squeezed by 8 percent, Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. analyst
 Robert Hu  wrote in a report today. He cut the target price for
Pacific Insurance to HK$27.00 from HK$30.00 and downgraded the
stock to “underperform” from “neutral.” China Life’s
“neutral” rating was maintained.  
 The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 0.6 percent,
while Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.7 percent.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho ,  Zhang Dingmin . Editors:  Malcolm Scott ,
 Chitra Somayaji   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        