-- China Stocks Fall Most in Two Weeks as Loan Curbs Maintained
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-13T07:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/china-eastern-airlines-petrochina-zijin-mining-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  fell, with the
benchmark index declining the most in two weeks, after the
government quashed speculation it will abandon real-estate curbs
that drove property prices lower for the first time in 16 months.  
 China Vanke Co.  and Bank of China Ltd. dropped among
developers and lenders after the government said it will
“strictly” enforce housing policies to prevent speculative
real estate investment.  Jiangxi Copper Co. , China’s biggest
producer of the metal, slid 3.1 percent, ending five days of
gains, while China Shenhua Energy Co. retreated 2.3 percent.  
 “It’s hard to believe that the government would reverse
its crackdown on the property industry so quickly and anyone who
hoped so is now disappointed,” said  Zhang Ling , a fund manager
at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, lost 40.43, or 1.6 percent, to 2,450.29
at the close, the biggest decline since June 29. The  CSI 300
Index  fell 1.6 percent to 2,634.59.  
 The Shanghai Composite jumped 3.7 percent last week, the
most this year, on speculation the government will adopt a
looser monetary policy. The gauge has slumped 25 percent in 2010,
making it Asia’s worst performer, on concern government efforts
to curb inflation and property speculation will slow the economy.  
 China’s  property prices  fell 0.1 percent in June from the
previous month, ending 15 months of gains, statistics bureau
data showed yesterday. New lending of 603 billion yuan ($89
billion) last month was the least in three months, the central
bank said July 11.  
 Property Curbs  
 The Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development
reiterated that it will maintain curbs on speculative purchases
and increase market supply. The statement was in response to
media reports that said China may abandon its current property
policies, it said.  
 China’s banking regulator said it has made no changes to
policies on  home loans , according to a statement late yesterday.
The regulator called on commercial banks to strictly enforce
home loan rules, it said.  
 Vanke, the nation’s biggest developer, fell 2.4 percent to
7.46 yuan. Price cuts by Vanke have been among signs the market
is cooling as the government cracks down on speculation.  Poly
Real Estate Group Co. , the second largest, dropped 4.3 percent
to 11.33 yuan.  
 A measure of  property stocks  on the Shanghai Composite
slumped 3.2 percent, the most among the five industry groups. 
The real-estate gauge jumped 2.6 percent yesterday after the
Southern Metropolis Daily reported China may loosen curbs on
third-home loans. Some Chinese banks have eased standards for
mortgage lending, at least on a case-by-case basis, Credit
Suisse Group AG said in a report yesterday.  
 Banks Retreat  
 Bank of China, the nation’s third-biggest listed lender,
retreated 1.7 percent to 3.51 yuan.  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd. , the largest, lost 1.2 percent to 4.25 yuan.  
 Shanghai-based commercial banks have maintained second-home
loan curb policies which have not been loosened, the Shanghai
Banking Association said yesterday. The Oriental Morning Post
reported July 8 that some commercial banks based in the city
have eased policies for second-home buyers.  
 Authorities intensified a crackdown on property speculation
in April. Besides raising minimum mortgage rates and down-
payment ratios for some home purchases, the government has
pledged to boost land supply and the construction of low-cost
public homes. Officials may also trial a property tax, according
to state media.  
 China needs to “normalize” monetary policy to stablize
economic growth, the China Business News reported  Wu Xiaoling , a
former People’s Bank of China deputy governor, as saying. Wu
called last year’s policy “extremely loose,” the report said.  
 Property ‘Collapse’  
 “The government isn’t likely to relax tightening measures
as it wants to transform the country’s growth model to focus on
consumption rather than investment,” said  Zhang Qi , an analyst
at Haitong Securities Co. in Shanghai.  
 Harvard University professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said July 6
that a “collapse” in real estate is beginning, while Barclays
Capital forecasts prices may fall as much as 30 percent in the
next 12 months.  
 Property investment accounts for about 10 percent of gross
domestic product and construction consumes half of the nation’s
output of steel and 36 percent of the aluminum that it makes,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimates.  
 Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, slid
3.1 percent to 24.51 yuan, snapping a five-day, 13 percent rally.
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. dropped 2.2 percent to 8.94 yuan.
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the listed unit of China’s second-
biggest steelmaker, declined 2.8 percent. Shenhua, the largest
coal producer, retreated 2.3 percent to 21.77 yuan.  
 Copper decreased as much as 0.9 percent in London and
aluminum fell 0.6 percent. Crude oil dropped as much as 0.9
percent in New York.  
 Waste Leak  
 Zijin Mining Group Co. , the country’s largest gold producer,
tumbled 3.7 percent to 5.76 yuan. The company said it has
suspended stockpiling of ore at the Zijinshan mine after waste
water containing acidic copper leaked into a nearby river. The
incident has had a “substantial effect” on copper production
at the mine, it said.  
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said it sees a “buying
opportunity” in China’s yuan-denominated shares as equity
supply may ease in the second half compared with the first six
months of 2010 and as investors become “less concerned” about
policy risks.  
 “It should become apparent in the coming months that
Beijing is less concerned about inflation or asset bubbles for
the rest of 2010,” RBS analysts led by  Wendy Liu  wrote in a
report yesterday.  
 Agricultural Bank  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , which begins trading in
Shanghai on July 15 and in Hong Kong the day after, raised $19.2
billion in the world’s biggest initial public offering in four
years.  
 Companies may raise about 500 billion yuan in initial
public offerings in Shanghai and Shenzhen this year, more than
in any other country, PricewaterhouseCoopers said July 5.  
 China doesn’t plan to delay or suspend initial share sales
in Shanghai or Shenzhen, the China Securities Journal said,
citing an unidentified official at the China Securities
Regulatory Commission. The comments refute media reports saying
China is considering suspending new IPOs to stem further
declines in the stock market, it said.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 GD Power Development Co.  (600795 CH), the largest
electricity producer in northeastern China, added 1.5 percent to
3.39 yuan. The power producer said its electricity generation in
the first half of this year rose 15 percent to 49.3 billion
kilowatt hours.  
 Orient International Enterprise Ltd.  (600278 CH) rose by
the 10 percent daily limit to 10.01 yuan after the company said
it will sell 81.7 million shares to its parent in exchange for
garment and logistic businesses valued at 997 million yuan.  
 Pingdingshan Tianan Coal Mining Co.  (601666 CH), the listed
unit of China’s fifth-largest producer of the coal, gained 2.8
percent to 14.75 yuan after saying first-half net income
increased 44.5 percent from a year earlier to 1.27 billion yuan.  
 Tiancheng Co. of Taiyuan University of Technology  (600392
CH), a manufacturer of electronic equipment, lost 1.8 percent to
17.10 yuan after saying its shareholder Shanxi Hongzhan
Guarantee Co. reduced its stake in the company.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Linus Chua   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        