-- Vanke, Poly Lead Property Stocks Rally on Speculation Banks Relaxing Curbs
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T03:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/china-vanke-poly-lead-developers-higher-on-bank-lending-curbs-speculation.html

          
          
             China Vanke Co.  and Poly Real Estate
Group Co. led developers higher in Shenzhen and Shanghai trading
on speculation banks are loosening standards on mortgage lending
amid a slowdown in property price gains.  
 Vanke, the nation’s largest publicly traded developer,
climbed 5.1 percent to 7.61 yuan at 11:10 a.m. local time, the
most since May 18. Poly Real Estate surged 5.1 percent to 12
yuan. A measure of  property shares  jumped 3.3 percent, the the
biggest gain among the five industry groups on the Shanghai
Composite Index, which added 0.6 percent to 2,484.74.  
 “Over the weekend, more than ten property agents and bank
representatives we talked to confirmed that some banks did
loosen mortgage lending standards - on a case-by-case basis at
least,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by  Jinsong Du  wrote
in a report today.  
 China’s  property prices  rose at a slower pace for a second
month after April’s record gain as the government cracked down
on speculation. Prices in 70 cities added 11.4 percent in June
from a year earlier, according to a report today in the
statistic bureau’s newspaper, China Information News. That
compared with 12.8 percent in April and 12.4 percent in May.  
 The government may loosen limitations on third-home loans
as the curbs reaped their intended effects on real estate, the
Southern Metropolis Daily reported, citing Qin Hong, a
researcher from Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  
 Bank Denials  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China
Construction Bank Corp. and Bank of China Ltd. denied on July 9
a newspaper report that they resumed third-home mortgages in
Shanghai.  
 The companies are complying with a government order to
freeze lending for such purchases, spokespeople for the three
banks’ Shanghai branches said in interviews. Some Shanghai-based
commercial banks have resumed lending for third-home purchases
and eased policies for second-home buyers, the Oriental Morning
Post reported July 8, citing people it didn’t identify.  
 Harvard University professor  Kenneth Rogoff  said July 6
that a “collapse” in real estate is beginning, while Barclays
Capital forecasts prices may fall as much as 30 percent in the
next 12 months.  
 -- Chua Kong Ho  in Shanghai. Editor:  Richard Frost   
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        