-- Citigroup Bondholders' Suit Over Mortgage Risk Can Proceed, Judge Rules
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-12T20:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/citigroup-bondholders-suit-can-go-forward-u-s-judge-in-new-york-rules.html

          
          
             A lawsuit claiming that  Citigroup
Inc.  misled investors who bought 48 issues of its corporate
bonds offered from May 2006 to August 2008 can go forward, a
federal judge in New York ruled.  
 U.S. District Judge  Sidney Stein  today denied part of a
motion by Citigroup to dismiss the suit, which claims Citigroup
misrepresented its liabilities from “toxic” mortgage-backed
securities. Stein threw out claims that involved alleged lack of
disclosure about auction rate securities and part of the
plaintiffs’ case related to structured investment vehicles.  
 The bank’s disclosures of its financial performance and
condition “contained untrue statements of material facts and
omitted material facts,” the plaintiffs said in a complaint
originally filed in New York state court in 2008. These
statements failed to disclose “the true extent of the Company’s
massive exposure to risky mortgage-related assets -- including
mortgage backed securities and collateralized debt
obligations.”  
 Once these liabilities became public, the company’s bonds
plummeted in value, the complaint claims. The underwriters
failed to ensure the truthfulness and accuracy of the various
statements in Citigroup’s offerings, the plaintiffs claimed.
According to Stein, the plaintiffs dismissed 61 of the
underwriters from the suit in February 2009.  
 Citigroup and the other defendants argued the investors
lacked legal standing to press the claims.  
 Officers, Directors  
 The suit names as defendants Citigroup, its wholly owned
 Citigroup Funding Inc.  subsidiary, eight Citigroup trusts, 28
current and former Citigroup officers and directors and almost
80 banks that underwrote the bonds, according to Stein’s
opinion.  
 “We are pleased that some claims were dismissed, and will
vigorously defend the remaining claims on the merits,”  Danielle Romero , a spokeswoman for Citigroup, said in an e-mail.  
 Stein said the plaintiffs have standing to raise claims
that Citigroup violated sections 11 and 15 of the federal
Securities Act. Section 11 permits investors to sue for
misstatements in a registration statement. Section 15 makes
“controlling persons” liable for violations, Stein said.  
 The ruling says the investors can continue to pursue claims
that Citigroup’s registration statements failed to disclose
possible liability for $66 billion in collateralized debt
obligations backed by subprime mortgages and for $100 billion in
subprime mortgage-backed structured investment vehicles after
December 2007.  
 ‘Well Capitalized’  
 The defendants can also pursue their Section 11 and 15
claims that Citigroup understated the amount necessary to cover
residential loan losses, falsely claimed it was “well
capitalized” and falsely claimed that its financial statements
complied with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, GAAP.  
 Stein dismissed claims that Citigroup failed to disclose
$11 billion in auction rate securities it held and its liability
for the structured investment vehicles before December 2007.  
 Stein held that the plaintiffs lack standing to bring any
claims under Section 12 of the act, which covers misstatements
in public offering materials, because the investors didn’t claim
they bought the bonds directly from Citigroup, rather than on
the secondary market.  
 The plaintiffs in the case include the Louisiana Sheriffs’
Pension and Relief Fund, Minneapolis Firefighters’ Relief
Association and the City of Philadelphia Board of Pensions and
Retirement. They seek to represent all holders of the Citigroup
bonds.  
 The case is: In Re Citigroup Bond Litigation, No. 08-CV-
9522, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in U.S. District Court in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        