-- Colorado's U.S. Senate Primary Races Illustrate Clamorous Campaign Season
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-07-12T18:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/colorado-s-u-s-senate-primary-races-illustrate-clamorous-campaign-season.html

          
          
             Democrats went west in 2008, holding
their national convention in Denver as they sought an advantage
in a swing state. Though  Barack Obama  carried Colorado in
winning the presidency, two years later the state remains
untamed by either party.  
 The Aug. 10 Republican and Democratic U.S. Senate primaries
offer evidence of the state’s unsettled politics. And the
national tumult marking this campaign season is encapsulated in
the races where establishment candidates could be upended. The
Republican race pits a Tea Party favorite against a former
lieutenant governor. The Democratic incumbent,  Michael Bennet ,
faces a challenger,  Andrew Romanoff , whom the White House tried
to sideline by dangling a job possibility.  
 The Clinton and Obama brands also are squaring off in the
Democratic contest, with the former president backing Romanoff
and the current president supporting Bennet.  
 “The Republican side is very reflective of the national
trend,” said  Mike Stratton , a Denver-based Democratic political
consultant. “The Democratic side is just an unfortunate
cannibalism that only plays to the Republican advantage.”  
 The prospect that Democrats could lose the Colorado seat is
one reason analysts give Republicans a shot at winning a Senate
majority in November’s election. The seat is among 11 rated as
tossups by the non-partisan  Cook Political Report  in Washington.  
 Democratic Dilemma  
 The seat also illustrates the unintended dilemma created
for Democrats by Obama’s election and the assembling of his
governing team.  
 After Obama named then-Colorado Senator  Ken Salazar  as
Interior Secretary, the pick by the state’s governor for the
vacancy was Bennet, the Denver schools superintendent who had
never held an elected office and lacked a high public profile.  
 Also vulnerable to a Republican takeover in November is the
Illinois seat Obama gave up and the Delaware one  Joe Biden 
vacated upon becoming vice president. The Cook Report rates the
Illinois race a tossup, the Delaware contest a likely Republican
gain.  
 The Colorado campaigns are playing out amid a state
 unemployment  rate of 8 percent, below the national rate of 9.5
percent for June. The state, which had the nation’s  eighth-
fastest  population growth between 2008-09, needs to create a
stream of jobs to stay even with the worker influx. The state’s
largest employers include Denver-based  Qwest Communications
International Inc.  and  Molson Coors Brewing Co. , jointly
headquartered in Denver and Montreal.  
 Republican Race  
 The Republican battle pits Tea Party favorite  Ken Buck 
against  Jane Norton , who is backed by the  National Republican
Senatorial Committee  and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  
 Buck has been criticized by Democrats for comments made
 last week  at one of his rallies by former U.S. Representative
 Tom Tancredo , a Colorado Republican who said Obama and his
policies represent a greater threat to the nation than Al Qaeda,
the Civil War or the former Soviet Union.  
 “The greatest threat to the country that was put together
by the Founding Fathers is the guy that is in the White House
today,” said Tancredo, a former presidential candidate.  
 Buck didn’t applaud the remarks, though members of the
audience did.  
 Norton Defense  
 Norton later defended Tancredo’s comments. “There was a
real measure of truth in what Tancredo said,” she said in a
statement. “It’s time to end the culture of political
correctness. Obama’s brand of big government is a threat to
America.”  
 Buck and Norton sparred last week at an amphitheater in
Estes Park, Colorado, where about 150 people, including Tea
Party activists, gathered on the edge of  Rocky Mountain National
Park .  
 “I have one reason that I am running for the United States
Senate: our federal government is out of control,” said Norton,
55, the lieutenant governor from 2003-07.  
 Buck, 51, told the crowd about his wife’s gun. “She got
her concealed-carry permit the other day, so I am a changed
husband,” he said. “That should tell you something about the
Second Amendment in our household.”  
 In an interview, Norton said Buck can’t win the general
election because his views are too extreme. “We have to have a
message that reaches into our unaffiliated voters and some
disenfranchised Democrats,” she said.  
 ‘Extremists’  
 Buck, a county prosecutor, dismissed Norton’s contention.
“The folks in D.C. are the extremists,” he said. “They’re out
of their minds, and we’re going to teach them in November just
how much they are out of their minds.”  
 Buck won attention from some voters when, in his job, he
targeted illegal immigrants for prosecution. Though the issue
could help him in the primary, Democrats believe it could hurt
him as a Senate nominee in a state where Hispanics in 2008
accounted for 20.2 percent of the population, according to the
 Census Bureau .  
 Voters Buck hopes to attract include Barbara Green, 55, a
restaurant owner in Loveland, Colorado, who said she got
interested in the Tea Party because of frustration with
government taxes and a struggling business.  
 “If I don’t do something to get the right people elected,
I’m going to be out of business and in the unemployment lines
myself,” she said.  
 Democratic Race  
 Among the Democrats, Romanoff received a boost June 29 when
former President  Bill Clinton  endorsed him. Romanoff, 43, a
former state House speaker, supported  Hillary Clinton’s  2008
presidential campaign; Bennet, 45, backed Obama’s bid.  
 Speaking last week to supporters in a backyard in Estes
Park, Romanoff said “too many Democrats are scared by their own
shadows.”  
 In an interview, he said he expects to benefit from not
currently holding office. “I don’t believe incumbency is an
advantage this year,” he said.  
 Obama aides tried to keep Romanoff from challenging Bennet
by raising the prospect of an administration job with him.  
 Bennet received a fundraising visit from Obama in February,
when the president praised him as “an agent of change.”  
 Bennet said in an interview he considers himself only
technically an incumbent. Romanoff has spent his “entire
career, almost” running for office, Bennet said.  
 “I spend a lot of time reminding people that my lifetime
has been spent outside of politics, and that that is a
perspective that is unusual in Washington,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Estes Park, Colorado at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        