-- Consumer Reports Says Apple IPhone 4 Has `Significant' Flaw
-- Arik Hesseldahl
-- 2010-07-12T20:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/consumer-reports-says-it-doesn-t-recommend-apple-s-iphone-4.html

          
          
             Consumer Reports said it isn’t
recommending  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone 4 following tests confirming
the handset has a hardware flaw that causes signal quality to
degrade.  
 “The problem seems to be a design flaw, and it is
significant,” Mike Gikas, senior electronics editor for  Consumer
Reports , said today in an interview. The publication has
recommended the three previous iPhone models.  
 Tests were conducted in a room designed to eliminate radio-
frequency interference, he said. The results showed that when a
user covers the phone’s lower-left side, where two parts of the
external antenna meet, the loss of signal strength may lead to
dropped calls in areas where  AT&T Inc. ’s coverage is weak. The
tests suggest AT&T’s network, often criticized for spotty iPhone
coverage, isn’t responsible for the signal problems.  
 AT&T is the iPhone’s exclusive carrier in the U.S. Apple
says the problem is software-related and involves how the phone
displays signal strength. A fix will be released, the company
said on July 2.  
 “If the signal is strong in the area, then you won’t lose
the call,” Gikas said. Consumer Reports is published by the
nonprofit Consumers Union, based in Yonkers, New York.  
 Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment.  Mark Siegel, a spokesman for AT&T in Dallas,
had no comment.  
 More Phones Tested  
 Consumer Reports also tested other phones, including
Apple’s older iPhone 3GS, and the Palm Pre, and found they
didn’t suffer from the same problems as the iPhone 4, Gikas
said.  
 Gikas suggested that users who experience the problem apply
duct tape, which doesn’t conduct electricity, to the gap in
order to reduce the chance of causing signal interference.  
 Apple has faced criticism since the phone went on sale June
24, with consumers complaining about losses of signal strength
when holding the phone along its left-side black stripe.  
 Apple  fell $2.34 to $257.29 at 4 p.m. New York time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The  shares  have gained 22 percent this
year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:  Arik Hesseldahl  in New
York at   ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A customer examines an Apple iPhone 4 at an Apple store in London. Photographer Rupert Hartley/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Heath Terry, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, talks about the "design flaw" with Apple Inc.'s new iPhone 4 and the possible impact on sales.
     Terry talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- David Garrity, principal at GVA Research LLC, talks about reported reception problems with Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4.
     Consumer Reports says it isn’t recommending the device following tests confirming the handset has a hardware flaw that causes signal quality to degrade. Garrity talks with Carol Massar and Matt Miller on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Michael Gikas, senior electronics editor at Consumer Reports, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton and Julie Hyman about Apple Inc.'s iPhone 4 reception problem.
     Consumer Reports said its engineers have just completed testing Apple’s iPhone 4 and have confirmed that a hardware flaw is creating a reception problem. As a result, Consumer Reports said it has decided not to recommend the phone. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Consumer Reports said its engineers have just completed testing Apple Inc.’s iPhone 4 and have confirmed that a hardware flaw is creating a reception problem. As a result, Consumer Reports said it has decided not to recommend the phone. Bloomberg's Margaret Brennan, Sheila Dharmarajan and Scarlet Fu report. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
