-- Copper Drops in New York as Chinese Imports of Metal Fall for Third Month
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-07-12T18:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/copper-drops-in-london-as-reduced-imports-in-china-may-signal-slower-usage.html

          
          
             Copper prices fell for the first
time in six sessions after a report showed imports fell in
China, the world’s biggest metals buyer.  
 Shipments of copper and products into China declined 17
percent from a month earlier to 328,231 metric tons in June, the
customs bureau said July 10. Imports have fallen for three
straight months. Copper prices have declined 10 percent this
year on concern demand would slow.  
 “The import numbers out of China were discouraging,” said
 Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at brokerage Lind-
Waldock in Chicago. “There’s a lot of uncertainty for copper.”  
 Copper futures for September delivery slid 4.45 cents, or
1.5 percent, to $3.009 a pound on the Comex in New York.  
 Last week, futures jumped 4.7 percent after stockpiles
monitored by the London Metal Exchange fell.  Inventories  dropped
0.4 percent today to 435,250 metric tons, the lowest since Nov.
27.  
 “Right now, I’m more concerned about demand and the
economic situation than supply,” Klopfenstein said.  
 Copper fell 17 percent in the second quarter partly on
concern that China’s moves to cool its economy will sap demand.
If the country slows “aggressively,” it “may become a
problem,” said  Nic Brown , an analyst at Natixis Commodity
Markets Ltd. in London.  
 “Imports were certainly weaker than I’d expected,” Brown
said. A report this week may show they country’s growth in the
second quarter was “substantially slower than the first
quarter,” he said.  
 Copper for delivery in three months declined 1.9 percent to
$6,630 a ton ($3.01 a pound) on the London Metal Exchange.  
 Aluminum, nickel, lead, tin and zinc prices also dropped.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        