-- Credit Suisse Units Ask Court to Dismiss Ambac Suit Over Mortgage Deals
-- Carlyn Kolker
-- 2010-07-12T17:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/credit-suisse-units-want-ambac-lawsuit-over-mortgage-deals-dismissed.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group  AG asked a judge
to throw out an  Ambac Financial Group Inc.  lawsuit over
mortgage-backed securities transactions, saying the bond insurer
is too “sophisticated” to claim it was fraudulently induced to
take part in the deals.  
 An Ambac division sued two units of Zurich-based Credit
Suisse in New York state court in January, alleging breach of
warranties, breach of repurchase and other damages in addition
to fraudulent inducement. Ambac said that a Credit Suisse unit
misstated the attributes of securitized loans and the
underwriting guidelines used to select them, Ambac Assurance
said in the complaint filed Jan. 12 in Manhattan.  
 Credit Suisse said in court filings July 8 that Ambac,
after agreeing to insure $175 million in home-equity lines of
credit in March 2007, didn’t perform a review of the underlying
loans in the securitization, which Credit Suisse underwrote.  
 “Its decision to conduct no independent due diligence on
files and information equally available to it amounts to a
failure to take ‘reasonable steps’ to protect itself against the
purported deception it now alleges,” DLJ Mortgage Capital and
Credit Suisse Securities said in the motion to dismiss.  
 Peter Poillon , a spokesman for New York-based Ambac,
declined to comment.  
 Lawsuit Allegations  
 Ambac Assurance alleged in its lawsuit that the Credit
Suisse units violated agreements by refusing to repurchase the
securities.  
 “It is evident that Credit Suisse did not undertake the
due diligence it had represented it conducted,” Ambac said at
the time. The Swiss bank’s claims “were made solely to convey a
false assurance regarding Credit Suisse’s quality control.”  
 Loans representing more than 30 percent of the original
March 2007 loan balance, or more than $53 million, had
defaulted, forcing Ambac to pay more than $44 million in claim
payments, Ambac said in the Jan. 12 complaint.  
 As the losses mounted, Ambac said it selected a sample of
loans from the securitized loan pool and had them analyzed by a
third party. The probe found that about 80 percent of the loans
reviewed, including those in the sample, breached DLJ’s claims
and warranties based on underwriting guidelines, according to
the lawsuit.  
 In its motion to dismiss, Credit Suisse said Ambac was a
“sophisticated” entity and “highly experienced” in handling
mortgage-backed securities. Ambac had previously insured $28.5
billion before the 2007 securitization, the Swiss bank said, and
was provided “copious” information about the nature of loans
in the Credit Suisse mortgage-backed transaction.  
 “It is clear that what Ambac now asserts as fraud (which
defendants vigorously dispute) is a claim based on facts that
could easily have been identified simply by opening a sample of
loan files,” the Credit Suisse units said in the court filing.  
 The case is Ambac Assurance Corp. v. DLJ Mortgage Capital,
Inc. 600070/2010, filed in New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlyn Kolker  in New York
at   ckolker@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        