-- Cuba's Castro Makes First TV Appearance Since 2007
-- Daniel Cancel
-- 2010-07-13T00:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/cuba-s-fidel-castro-discusses-north-korea-u-s-iran-in-live-tv-interview.html

          
          
             Former Cuban President  Fidel Castro 
warned of worsening ties between the U.S. and Iran in his first
television interview in at least three years, after overseeing a
transfer of power to his brother Raul following surgery in 2006.  
 The return to the public eye by the 83-year-old Castro,
leader of Cuba’s 1959 communist revolution, comes as the
Caribbean nation prepares to free 52 political prisoners
following talks with the Roman Catholic Church and Spain. Castro
spoke slowly and clearly on a state-run news show from an office
chair while leafing through a notebook held in his lap.  
 The role of the former strongman over his brother’s
government has been the subject of constant analysis by Cuba
watchers since his abdominal surgery. Castro publishes his views
on world events in  newspaper  columns and continues to meet with
visiting foreign leaders including Venezuela President Hugo
Chavez and Ecuador President Rafael Correa.  
 “Castro doesn’t do anything without it being carefully
scripted, planned or staged,” said  Chris Sabatini , policy
director of the Council of the Americas business group in New
York. “He’s a master of the larger strategic message and clearly
this is part of that -- he wants to weigh in and let it be known
that these events aren’t occurring outside his purview, that
they occur with his knowledge.”  
 Castro has recently warned in his newspaper columns of
attempts by the U.S. and Israel to lead an attack on Iran over
its nuclear energy program that could spill into a world war. He
also said the U.S. was increasing its pressure on Iran as much
of the world focused on soccer’s World Cup tournament, which
ended yesterday.  
 ‘Nuclear War’  
 “If there’s an attack on Iran by Israel and the U.S.,
there’s no way to prevent it from becoming a nuclear war,” said
Castro, wearing a plaid shirt and grey jacket. “Iran isn’t a
divided country and the U.S. would meet a lot of resistance in
an attack.”  
 Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the release of the
Cuban dissidents is “very welcome” and “a positive sign.”  
 “We were encouraged by the apparent agreement between the
Roman Catholic Church and the authorities in Cuba for the
release of 52 political prisoners,” Clinton said July 8. “We
welcome this. We think it’s a positive sign. It’s something
that’s overdue but nevertheless very welcome.”  
 The Obama administration last year ended restrictions on
Cuban-Americans traveling to Cuba and transferring money to
relatives back home. The U.S. State Department has also held
talks in Havana with Cuban officials about restoring mail
service and cooperation on migration issues. The U.S. has had a
trade embargo on Cuba since 1962.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Former Cuban President Fidel Castro  
                       
                         
                           Ricardo Stuckert/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Former Cuban President Fidel Castro is seen during a meeting with Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Havana, on February 2010. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Former Cuban President Fidel Castro is seen during a meeting with Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Havana, on February 2010. Photographer: Ricardo Stuckert/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
