-- Czech Central Bank Says Inflation Outlook Safe Even as June Prices Gained
-- Peter Laca
-- 2010-07-12T12:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/czech-inflation-remained-unchanged-in-june-above-central-bank-s-forecast.html

          
          
             Czech consumer-price growth, which
exceeded the central bank’s forecast in June for a third month,
doesn’t “jeopardize” the inflation outlook, the Ceska Narodni
Banka said.  
 The annual  inflation rate  was 1.2 percent in June, the
 statistics office  in Prague said on its website today. The
median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
prices to advance 1.4 percent. On the month,  consumer prices 
were unchanged. The central bank forecast annual inflation of
0.9 percent for June.  
 Price growth has accelerated this year as improving demand
for Czech exports, such as Skoda Auto AS cars, has helped the
economy recover from the worst recession since the end of
communism two decades ago. Czech gross domestic product rose an
annual 1.1 percent in the first three months, the first increase
in five quarters.  
 The central bank said the deviation from its forecast
“remained moderate” in June and was caused mainly by higher
cost of fuels. “Overall, the published data do not put the
forecast in jeopardy,” the bank said in a statement on its
website. It said inflation pressures from the domestic economy
were “subdued.”  
 The latest central bank  forecast  from May sees inflation
below its 2 percent target in the second and third quarters of
next year. The bank said the inflation rate should rise slightly
above the target near the end of this year, while staying within
the tolerance band of plus or minus 1 percentage point.  
 The central bank left the benchmark two-week repurchase
rate at a record-low 0.75 percent on June 23, after an
unexpected quarter-point cut in May. Governor  Miroslav Singer ,
who took office at the start of the month, said on July 8 that
rates are likely to stay at a record low for “quite a while.”  
 Inflation is likely to exceed the central bank’s target
“in the summer months,” though the trend is unlikely to prompt
monetary-policy tightening because price growth will be driven
mainly by factors outside the influence of monetary policy, said
 Michal Brozka , an analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS in Prague.  
 The central bank will “probably wait with raising interest
rates until the first quarter of next year,” Brozka said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Laca  in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        