-- Offshore Oil Industry Finds Little Gain in Revamped U.S. Ban
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-07-13T14:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/deepwater-drilling-ban-renewed-by-u-s-after-court-rejected-initial-pause.html

          
          
             Revisions to a U.S. ban on deep-
water drilling will do little to restart Gulf of Mexico
operations brought to a standstill by the worst oil spill in the
country’s history, industry groups and analysts said.  
 The policy announced yesterday may let some deep-water work
resume earlier than the six-month pause ordered by the Obama
administration May 27, according to the Interior Department. A
federal judge rejected the initial moratorium, imposed in
response to the  BP Plc  oil spill in April.  
 Regulations and congressional opposition after the accident
will prevent most new drilling, said  Kevin Book , a managing
director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based
policy analysis firm. Companies have canceled drilling contracts
and shut down rigs since the original ban took effect.  
 “The de-facto moratorium is the part that the
administration is very clear about,” Book said in an interview.
“Even if there were no moratorium, there would still be
regulations, there would still be Congress. Practically
speaking, we expect nothing to change.”  
 President  Barack Obama  had halted drilling in waters deeper
than 500 feet (152.4 meters) to give a presidential commission
time to study improvements in the safety of offshore operations.
U.S. District Judge  Martin Feldman  cited legal flaws in the
original moratorium in a June 22 ruling, and last week a three-
judge appeals court panel denied the administration’s request to
place a hold on Feldman’s ruling.  
 Safety Questions  
 “I remain open to modifying the new deepwater drilling
suspensions based on new information,” Interior Secretary
 Kenneth Salazar  said in a statement yesterday. “But industry
must raise the bar on its practices and answer fundamental
questions about deepwater safety, blowout prevention and
containment, and oil spill response.”  
 The new moratorium differs from the May 27 ban by
identifying at-risk wells based on drilling configurations and
technologies instead of water depth. The previous version barred
drilling deeper than 500 feet, a distinction Judge Feldman
questioned in rejecting the ban.  
 The new ban applies to wells that use subsea or surface
blowout preventers on a floating facility. The blowout preventer
used at BP’s Macondo well 5,000 feet below the surface failed
after an April 20 explosion that later sank the drilling rig.  
 ‘Caught in Semantics’  
 The moratorium on deep-water drilling will last until Nov.
30, or until Salazar finds that “drilling operations can
proceed safely,” according to the statement. Under the revised
restrictions, repeatedly described by Salazar as
“suspensions,” the government may allow new wells if the
industry shows it has raised safety standards, according to
Salazar.  
 “We keep getting caught in semantics,”  Jim Noe , general
counsel for  Hercules Offshore Inc. , the largest owner of
shallow-water rigs in the Gulf, said in an interview. “There is
no offshore drilling until the government issues permits. That
means we’ll continue to see drilling rigs attempt to leave.”  
 The six-month moratorium followed the sinking of the BP-
leased Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico off the
Louisiana coast.  Hornbeck Offshore Services Inc.  and other
offshore service and supply companies on June 7 sued U.S.
regulators, including Salazar, seeking to lift the ban.  
 Challenge ‘Moot’  
 The new moratorium supersedes the May 27 ban and “renders
the challenge by Hornbeck and the other plaintiffs moot,” the
Justice Department said in a statement.  
 Two New Orleans courts were asked by Salazar to dismiss the
industry lawsuit. An appeals court today gave opponents of the
moratorium until July 26 to respond to the government’s request.  
 “We’ve just received the decision memorandum of the
government,”  Carl Rosenblum , a lawyer representing Hornbeck and
other plaintiffs, said in a telephone interview. “We have
substantial concerns about whether it is consistent with Judge
Feldman’s order.”  
 The companies have argued they would suffer irreparable
economic harm from the suspension of drilling, a theme echoed by
officials of Gulf Coast states such as Louisiana’s Republican
Governor  Bobby Jindal .  
 “The practical effect is that whether you call this a
suspension or a moratorium, there is not a clear path for
deepwater exploration companies to follow,” Burt Adams,
chairman of the Washington-based National Ocean Industries
Association, said in a statement yesterday. “Until such a path
exists, exploration is at a standstill and more jobs will be
lost.”  
 New Safety Requirements  
 The temporary ban will allow time to implement new safety
requirements, Salazar said. The Interior Department last month
said offshore drillers must include information about the
possibility of a well blowout when seeking permits.  
 The revamped moratorium provides “exactly the kind of
flexibility and specificity that the court was looking for when
it rejected what it regarded as the sweeping nature of the
administration’s moratorium,” said Elgie Holstein, oil-spill
response coordinator in Washington for the Environmental Defense
Fund.  
 The new version provides for “an earlier lifting of the
moratorium if the industry is able to demonstrate a willingness
and ability to put in place new safety measures,” Holstein
said.  
 “When every single resource available is being deployed to
combat this one spill, what would we do if there were another?”
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, said in
a statement yesterday. “The only thing worse than one rig at
the bottom of the Gulf would be two.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ken Salazar, U.S. secretary of the interior, testifies at a hearing in Washington. Photographer: Jay Westcott/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
