-- Deported Russian Spy-Swap Researcher Sutyagin May Return Home From U.K.
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2010-07-12T15:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/deported-russian-spy-swap-researcher-sutyagin-may-return-home-from-u-k-.html

          
          
             Igor Sutyagin , a Russian arms expert
convicted of espionage in 2004, may return home after he was
deported to England in a spy swap with the U.S. last week, a
former colleague said.  
 “He needs to get his health back first, but I don’t see
any reason why he wouldn’t return to Russia,”  Pavel Podvig , an
independent arms researcher, said by telephone from Geneva
today. “He has Russian citizenship, his wife and daughters are
in Russia and he has been pardoned by the president. And he has
always been very patriotic.”  
 Sutyagin consistently maintained his innocence of spying
for the U.S. and U.K. As part of the July 9 swap, he admitted
his guilt and was subsequently pardoned by President  Dmitry Medvedev . His lawyer,  Anna Stavitskaya , said the admission was
made under duress.  
 In the swap, carried out at a Vienna airport, Sutyagin and
three other convicted spies were exchanged for 10 alleged
members of a Russian spy ring in the U.S. who pled guilty in New
York to the lesser charge of conspiring to act as unregistered
foreign agents. Russia’s Foreign Ministry and the U.S. State
Department hailed the swift resolution of the spy scandal as
evidence of improved ties between the two countries.  
 ‘Stress Test’  
 “This spy scandal allowed us and the Americans to test
ourselves in what you could call almost combat conditions,”
 Konstantin Kosachyov , chairman of the International Affairs
Committee in Russia’s lower house of parliament, said today.
“We passed this stress test on an entirely mutual basis without
any shocks.”  
 Sutyagin’s brother, Dmitry, said by telephone today that he
had no fresh information. “He won’t be able to do anything
until tomorrow. Things could change tomorrow.”  
 Russian human rights activist Ernst Chyorny said Sutyagin
is staying in a hotel near London, has no “immediate plans”
and is trying to figure out what to do next. He was given a
telephone card and allowed to call his parents once, Chyorny,
head of the Public Committee to Protect Scientists, said by
telephone from Moscow today.  
 Sutyagin was  assured  by officials in a meeting at Moscow’s
Lefortovo prison before the spy swap that he wouldn’t be
stripped of Russian citizenship and could return home “after a
certain time,” Stavitskaya said last week.  
 U.K. officials should complete paperwork today authorizing
Sutyagin to be present in the country, Chyorny said.  
 “It’s very positive” that Russian scientists were able to
lobby the U.S. government and human rights organizations to get
Sutyagin out of jail, said Podvig, a former research associate
at Stanford University’s Center for International Security and
Cooperation. “We still have a lot of people in jail on similar
charges, but his name got on the right list at the right time.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anastasia Ustinova  in St. Petersburg at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        