-- Deutsche Bank CEO Sees More Regulation, Lower Profits for Banking Industry
-- Aaron Kirchfeld
-- 2010-07-12T12:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/deutsche-bank-ceo-sees-more-regulation-lower-profits-for-banking-industry.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said financial industry profitability
will decline amid overregulation and lack of global coordination
on rules.  
 “The combined effect of all of these changes will be a
global financial system that is more regulated, less
international, less profitable,” said Ackermann, according to
written remarks prepared for a speech he gave today in Daejeon,
South Korea. “But also, hopefully, more stable and still open
and flexible enough to allow banks to serve their clients’
needs.”  
 Regulators and policy makers worldwide are pushing ahead
with plans for new rules after the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression required taxpayer bailouts and resulted in
more than $1.7 trillion in writedowns and credit losses.  
 There is “some rightful concern” the system will be
overregulated, said Ackermann, who forecasts transformational
changes to financial markets. The system may also be less
international as banks retreat from foreign markets amid higher
costs and countries introduce new rules without global
coordination, he said.  
 “Although G20 governments have commendably pledged to seek
a common global approach to financial regulation, in reality we
are seeing an increasing divergence in the approaches to rule
setting and implementation,” Ackermann said, referring to the
Group of 20 nations. “Too many governments are seeking the
alleged safety of segregated financial markets and asking banks
to hold capital and liquidity locally.”  
 Global Strategies  
 Global strategies for banks, especially those in mature
western markets, are a “must” in order to benefit from faster-
growing emerging markets and a level playing field is
“essential,” he said. Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest,
generates about three-quarters of its total revenue outside of
its home country.  
 Proposed banking regulations would erase 3.1 percent of
gross domestic product in the U.S., euro region and Japan by
2015 as financial firms curb lending, according to a study
published last month by the Institute of International Finance,
a global lobby group headed by Ackermann.  
 The Deutsche Bank CEO said he’s confident euro-member
countries can overcome the sovereign debt crisis.  
 “Many hard years lie ahead for the countries that lived
beyond their means and need to restore their competitiveness as
well as private and public sector balance sheets,” he said
according to a copy of prepared remarks.  
 European leaders agreed to additional deficit cuts after
setting up a 750 billion-euro ($944 billion) financial lifeline
in May to backstop the region as the fallout from Greece’s near
default raised concerns of contagion. The crisis revealed that
rules enforcing stricter fiscal discipline didn’t have “enough
bite,” Ackermann said, welcoming tighter euro-member oversight.  
 The financial crisis also reinforced the relative economic
decline of the West and the growing importance of Asia,
Ackermann said, according to the text of his speech.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Josef Ackermann, chairman of the management board and the group executive committee of Deutsche Bank AG, speaks at a conference hosted by South Korea's government and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Daejeon, South Korea. Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
