-- Early Alzheimer's Screening May Prolong Time Before Dementia, Study Finds
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-07-12T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/early-alzheimer-s-screening-may-prolong-time-before-dementia-study-finds.html

          
          
             Screening people for Alzheimer’s
disease and treating them early would add a year to the time
they spend in less-severe stages of the malady, a  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co . study found.  
 A research model predicted that if a disease-modifying
treatment were available, that could enable patients to live in
the community one year longer while decreasing time spent in
long-term care by almost 5 months, according to results
presented today in Honolulu at the  International Conference on
Alzheimer’s Disease.   
 Companies such as  Johnson & Johnson  in New Brunswick, New
Jersey, New York-based  Pfizer Inc.  and Bristol-Myers, and
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co.  are attempting to develop
treatments that may slow the illness. Existing drugs temporarily
ease symptoms; there is no cure.  
 “It would be very important if I were told I had a certain
amount of time left to live and I could spend 70 percent of that
time in a mild state and 30 percent in a severe state,” said
David Budd, a director of health-outcomes research at  Bristol-
Myers.  “Frequently you hear people who have loved ones with
Alzheimer’s disease saying, ‘I just want Mom to be Mom.’ There
isn’t a tremendous life extension but the balance of better time
is significant.”  
 Patients on a hypothetical disease-modifying agent lived
4.2 years in mild states of Alzheimer’s, compared with 3.2 years
for patients treated with the current standard of care. Average
time in the community was 5.4 years for the disease-modifying
drug, compared with 4.4 on the current care.  
 Long-Term Care  
 Increasing the time that patients spend with mild disease
cuts the need for costly long-term care, according to the study.
The researchers modeled the effects of a disease-modifying drug,
and the likelihood of patients’ transitioning in disease from
pre-dementia, mild, moderate, moderately severe, and severe
states was based on data from the Alzheimer’s Disease
Neuroimagining Initiative.  
 The study abstract didn’t specify how effective the
treatment would have to be to get the benefit.  
 Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias will afflict 35.6
million people this year, according to a report from Alzheimer’s
Disease International, a London-based federation of Alzheimer
associations. The number of sufferers may almost double every 20
years, and total 115.4 million in 2050.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        