-- Economy Grew 0.3% in First Quarter on Services; Current-Account Gap Widens
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-07-12T10:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/economy-grew-0-3-in-first-quarter-as-services-growth-offset-building-drop.html

          
          
             The U.K.  economy grew  0.3 percent in
the first quarter as an upward revision in services growth
outweighed a further slump in construction.  
 The increase in gross domestic product was unrevised from a
previous estimate, the Office for National Statistics said today
in London. The result matched the median forecast in a  Bloomberg
News survey  of 29 economists. On the year, it fell 0.2 percent,
also unchanged from the prior measurement. Separate data showed
the current-account deficit was the widest since 2007.  
 The Bank of England last week kept its bond-purchase plan
in place and left its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low to
aid the economic recovery during the biggest budget squeeze
since World War II and a slowdown in the euro region. Policy
maker  Andrew Sentance  last month made the first push for an
interest-rate increase in almost two years to curb inflation.  
 “The second quarter figure should be very robust,”  Alan Clarke , an economist at BNP Paribas in London, said in a
telephone interview. “That quarter will be the peak. The fiscal
tightening will start impacting in the fourth quarter, but
that’s really a story for next year.”  
 The pound today fell below $1.50 for the first time since
July 1 on speculation the U.K.’s economic recovery is faltering.
The currency was at $1.4995 as of 11:28 a.m. in London. The
yield on the benchmark two-year U.K. government bond fell 1
basis point to 0.715 percent.  
 Data Revisions  
 Industrial production growth was revised down to 1 percent
from a prior estimate of 1.2 percent. Services growth was
revised up by 0.1 point to 0.3 percent, while the drop in
construction was 1.6 percent instead of 0.5 percent, the
statistics office said.  
 The U.K.’s pace of economic growth more than doubled in the
second quarter to 0.7 percent, the London-based National
Institute of Economic and Social Research said on July 9.
Niesr’s clients include the Bank of England and the Treasury.
The next GDP release will be on July 23.  
 The sovereign debt crisis in Europe has increased the risk
of instability in the U.K. financial system, the Bank of England
said last week. Officials’ economic forecasts in May showed
risks to the recovery have increased because of investor concern
on the size of European budget deficits.  
 Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in his budget on
June 22 announced spending cuts and raised taxes to curb the
nation’s record deficit. Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said on June 17 that if economic growth prospects weaken because
of the budget squeeze, “monetary policy could then respond.”  
 Consumer Spending  
 Consumer spending was revised down in the quarter, showing
a 0.1 percent drop instead of no change, the statistics office
said. That was offset by upward revisions to government spending
and fixed investment.  
 The household savings ratio, which measures the proportion
of post-tax income hoarded by consumers, was at 6.9 percent in
the quarter, the lowest in a year.  
 In a separate release, the statistics office said the
current-account deficit was 9.6 billion pounds ($14.4 billion),
the widest since the third quarter of 2007. That compares with a
surplus of 521 million pounds in the final three months of 2009,
which was the first positive result since 1998.  
 Today’s national accounts data “highlighted the fragility
of the recovery seen so far,”  Vicky Redwood , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London and a former Bank of Engalnd
official, said in a note to clients. “We still doubt that the
economy is in good enough shape to withstand the fiscal squeeze
that is about to start in earnest.”  
 Today’s GDP report was delayed from last month because
officials identified “statistical inconsistencies” between
data components that merited further investigation, according to
a statement read out to reporters today. The GDP result was not
affected, the statistics office said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        