-- Drilling Moratorium's Length to Be Set by Interior Department, Not Panel
-- Jim Snyder
-- 2010-07-12T17:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/economic-damage-of-obama-drilling-ban-to-dwarf-oil-spill-trade-group-says.html

          
          
             The length of a U.S. moratorium on
deep-water  oil drilling  will be decided by the Interior
Department, not the presidential commission investigating the  BP
Plc  spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the panel’s co-chairman said.  
 The Obama administration’s six-month drilling ban “has
very complicated parts to it,” and the commission may help
answer some of the questions,  Bob Graham , a former senator from
Florida, told reporters prior to the commission’s first hearing
today in New Orleans. “The actual decision is going to be made
by groups primarily in the Department of Interior,” he said.  
 One of the biggest questions for the commission established
by President  Barack Obama  last month is whether the Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig that exploded April 20 and triggered the
largest oil spill in U.S. history, is an “outlier,” he said.  
 “Was it an oil rig that was outside the normal standard of
safety or was it representative of other rigs?” Graham asked.  
 Obama temporarily halted drilling in waters deeper than 500
feet on May 27 to give his commission time to study improvements
in the safety of offshore operations. The administration is
revising the moratorium to comply with a judge’s preliminary
injunction that lifted the ban after more than a dozen Louisiana
offshore service and supply companies sued.  
 A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit refused last week to reinstate the drilling ban
while the government appeals the earlier decision.  
 Local Economy  
 Graham said commissioners met with local officials in the
Gulf in preparation for the  hearings  today and tomorrow. Graham
said he is concerned that a “fishing moratorium” may harm the
economy in states along the Gulf.  
 “These consequences are an important part of the
assignment,” Graham said.  
 The panel today is hearing from representatives of the
Louisiana Shrimp Association, an oyster company and a tourism
board, as well as  Larry Dickerson , chief executive officer of
 Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc.   
 The BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling
Commission is also looking into whether federal agency oversight
is sufficient. The review will include this year’s
reorganization of the Minerals Management Service, the
industry’s principal regulator.  
 The damaged Macondo well has been gushing as much as 60,000
barrels of oil a day, according to government scientists, after
the initial explosion killed 11 workers and sank a $365 million
Transocean Ltd. rig being leased by BP. London-based BP had
spent about $3.1 billion on containment efforts, cleanup and
legal claims as of July 6, according to company data.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Snyder  in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        