-- Medvedev Says Iran Getting Closer to Nuclear Bomb Capability, Urges Talks
-- Henry Meyer
-- 2010-07-12T14:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/medvedev-says-iran-getting-closer-to-nuclear-bomb-capability-urges-talks.html

          
          
             Iran is getting closer to achieving
the capability to make nuclear weapons, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  said, as the Islamic republic vowed to multiply its
enriched uranium stockpile.  
 “We have to get away from short-cut approaches to this
issue,” Medvedev said in a meeting with ambassadors in Moscow
today. “It’s obvious that Iran is moving closer to possessing a
capability that could in principle be used to build nuclear
weapons.”  
 The Russian president called for the urgent resumption of
talks on the Iranian nuclear program. The plea came after Iran,
which has rejected United Nations Security Council demands to
halt uranium enrichment, said it can produce enough 20 percent
enriched uranium to power a Tehran research reactor, which needs
six times the country’s current stockpile, by September 2011.  
 The Persian Gulf state last month came under a fourth set
of UN sanctions and tougher U.S. and European Union measures.
Iran has enough low-enriched uranium to make two nuclear bombs
that could be ready for delivery within two years, U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency Director  Leon Panetta  said on June 27.
Medvedev at the time said the U.S. assessment was a “concern.”  
 “The Russians, who usually do come to the Western side
despite earlier rhetoric, are now looking at the real
possibility that Iran will be able to produce nuclear weapons,”
said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.  
 Attack ‘Inevitable’  
 “There are increasing signs that diplomacy is not working
and some kind of military strike is inevitable,” he said in a
phone interview. An attack could be mounted by the U.S., Israel
or the two combined, he said.  
 A senior envoy from Iran’s neighbor, the United Arab
Emirates, on July 6 was reported in the Washington Times as
saying that his country supports military action against Iranian
nuclear facilities. The U.A.E. Foreign Ministry later said its
ambassador to the U.S.,  Yousef al-Otaiba , had been quoted out of
context.  
 Iran is preparing its response to an international offer of
talks on the country’s nuclear program, Foreign Minister
 Manouchehr Mottaki  was quoted as saying by the state-run  Press
TV  on its website today. A fuel-swap plan brokered by Brazil and
Turkey, which was rejected by Western nations, should be
discussed, he said.  
 The five veto-holding members of the UN Security Council
and Germany pressed Iran on July 2 to agree to talks, a day
after the U.S. tightened trade restrictions on Iran following
new UN sanctions on June 9. Western nations last month dismissed
the plan for a fuel swap because Iran vowed to continue
enriching uranium after receiving a supply of the material in a
form needed to run the research reactor.  
 Opposing Claims  
 Iran refuses to suspend enrichment, saying the work is
necessary for civilian purposes such as power generation. The
U.S. and many of its allies say Iran’s nuclear technology may be
intended for a weapons program.  
 Iran said last month it would enrich its own fuel for the
medical reactor, which needs 120 kilograms of 20 percent
enriched fuel, after the U.S. and its allies rejected the deal
to exchange 1,200 kilograms of low-enriched uranium.  
 “Iran has now produced 20 kilograms of nuclear fuel with
an enrichment level of 20 percent,”  Ali Akbar Salehi , head of
Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization, said in comments reported by
 Press TV  late yesterday. The fuel rods for the research reactor
should be delivered by September next year, he said.  
 A nuclear weapon could be made by enriching 150 to 200
kilograms of 20 percent uranium to a concentration of 80 to 90
percent,  Paul Ingram , executive director of the London-based
British American Security Information Council, said in a June 23
phone interview. “Enriching to 20 percent is like going about
80 percent of the way towards having military material,” he
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lyubov Pronina  in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net 
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        