-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise for a Third Day as China May Ease Tightening
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-12T06:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/emerging-market-stocks-rise-for-a-third-day-as-china-may-ease-tightening.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks advanced for
a third day, with a benchmark index set for a more than two-week
high, on speculation China’s government will relax curbs on
mortgage lending to sustain an economic recovery.  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed 0.3 percent to
954.89 as of 2 p.m. in Singapore, adding to a 4.2 percent rally
last week that was the best weekly performance in seven months.
The gauge of 21 developing nations was poised for its highest
close since June 23. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index  rose 0.7
percent to a two-week high.  
 Poly Real Estate Group Co.  jumped after the Southern
Metropolis Daily said policy makers may loosen limitations on
third-home loans, while government reports showed property
prices snapped 15 months of gains and bank lending eased in  June.
China Life Insurance Co.  tumbled on a plan by regulators to
remove a cap on interest rates on some products. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  trimmed some of its gains after
the pace of industrial output slowed in May.  
 “Most of the data point towards a slowdown in economic
growth, which is fuelling expectations that the government will
ease tightening measures,” said  Wu Kan , a Shanghai-based fund
manager at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.  
 Poly Real Estate, China’s second-largest publicly traded
developer by market value, gained 4 percent and  China Vanke Co. ,
the largest, gained 4.6 percent.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. 
gained 4.3 percent in Hong Kong trading. China may loosen
limitations on third-home loans as the curbs reaped their
intended effects on the real estate market, the Southern
Metropolis Daily reported, citing Qin Hong, a researcher from
the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  
 Property Prices, Loans  
 Real-estate prices in 70 cities fell 0.1 percent from the
previous month, the statistics bureau said today, while a
central bank report yesterday said new lending of 603 billion
yuan ($89 billion) was the least in three months. Separately, a
customs office report showed overseas sales gained 43.9 percent
last month from a year ago, topping the median economist
forecast of 38 percent in a Bloomberg News survey. The
statistics bureau is due to announce second-quarter gross
domestic product data this week.  
 China Life , the nation’s largest insurer, and  China Pacific
Insurance (Group) Co.  both dropped 6.6 percent in Shanghai
trading. The China Insurance Regulatory Commission said July 9
it plans to allow insurers to decide the preset interest rates,
which insurers use to estimate future investment yields when
pricing contracts, on “conventional” life insurance policies.
The higher the interest rate is, the cheaper the insurance
policies are for customers.  
 South Korea, India  
 Samsung Life Insurance Co.  rose 1.9 percent, pacing gains
in Seoul, after the Bank of Korea today raised its 2010  economic
growth  forecast to 5.9 percent, from an April projection of 5.2
percent.  
 The South Korean central bank, which last week lifted its
benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points from a record-low 2
percent, also increased its estimate for growth in 2010 exports
to 26.4 percent from 18.6 percent and doubled its prediction for
this year’s current-account surplus to $21 billion.  
 In India, the benchmark  Sensex  index rose 0.6 percent,
paring gains of as much as 1 percent. India’s factory output in
May rose 11.5 percent from a year earlier, the Central
Statistical Organisation said in New Delhi today, missing the
16.2 percent forecast.  
 Bharti Airtel Ltd. , India’s largest wireless carrier, lost
1 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        