-- Templeton-Backed Shiv-Vani May Spend $50 Million to Buy Company Overseas
-- Jay Shankar
-- 2010-07-12T11:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/templeton-backed-shiv-vani-may-spend-50-million-to-buy-european-company.html

          
          
             Shiv-Vani Oil & Gas Exploration
Services Ltd. , an Indian oil driller backed by Templeton Asset
Management Ltd., plans to spend $50 million to acquire a U.S. or
European company to get access to technology.  
 “We have the basic facilities when it comes to drilling,”
Vice President P.K. Gupta said in a phone interview from New
Delhi today. “We are trying to develop capabilities in
specialized services, which companies like Schlumberger Ltd.
have.”  
 Crude oil’s 28 percent gain in the past year is encouraging
explorers to drill for more oil and natural gas in
unconventional areas as they bet prices will rise further. The
number of rigs used by explorers in Asia rose to the highest in
18 years in June as demand for energy in the region boosted
drilling, according to Baker Hughes Inc.  
 Shiv-Vani, which has  gained  35 percent this year, rose 0.5
percent to 462.25 rupees at close of trading in Mumbai. The
stock is the highest rated among members of the BSE500 index,
with all 11 analysts tracking the company recommending a
“buy,” according to Bloomberg data.  
 “It’s the only integrated player in the Indian market
today,” said  Alok Deshpande , an analyst at Elara Capital Ltd.
Customers “do prefer to hand over oil service contracts to a
single project manager,” such as Shiv-Vani, he said.  
 Shale, Coal Beds  
 Unconventional gas is the industry term to describe the
fuel trapped in shale formations, coal beds and sandstone rock.
 Reliance Industries Ltd. , India’s largest company by market
value, last month agreed to its second shale-gas acquisition in
three months, committing $1.3 billion for a stake in a venture
led by Pioneer Natural Resources Co.  
 BP Plc Chief Executive Officer Tony Hayward described shale
gas as a “game changer” after it allowed the U.S. to overtake
Russia in gas production last year.  
 Templeton, which owns a 5.3 percent stake in Shiv-Vani,
according to Bloomberg data, invested $20.6 million in March.
The funds will be used to meet the New Delhi-based company’s
equipment and technology needs, the fund manager said in a
statement.  
 “We are looking at niche companies, either in the U.S. or
Europe, with specialization in cementation or perforation,”
Gupta said. He didn’t give a timeline for the purchase.  
 Shiv-Vani, which counts India’s biggest explorer Oil &
Natural Gas Corp., Oil India Ltd. and  Petroleum Development Oman 
as its customers, plans to borrow $95 million selling
convertible bonds, it said in a statement to the Bombay Stock
Exchange last week.  
 The company’s revenue increased to 12.5 billion rupees
($286 million) in the year ended March 31 from 8.7 billion
rupees a year earlier. Net income rose to 2 billion rupees from
1.9 billion rupees.  
 Profit is expected to improve this fiscal as earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization show the
impact of projects started last year, Gupta said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jay Shankar  in Bangalore at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        