-- EPA Proposes Cellulosic Ethanol Requirement That Falls Short of U.S. Goals
-- Mario Parker
-- 2010-07-12T18:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/epa-proposes-cellulosic-ethanol-requirement-that-falls-short-of-u-s-goals.html

          
          
             The Environmental Protection Agency
proposed requiring less cellulosic ethanol to be blended into
gasoline next year than sought under U.S. law because production
of the alternative fuel hasn’t reached commercial scale.  
 The decision is part of the EPA’s proposed standard for
renewable fuels of about 14 billion gallons, or 7.95 percent of
transportation fuels used in the U.S., the agency said today in
a news release. The goal for cellulosic biofuels, based on an
analysis of market availability, is 5 million to 17.1 million
gallons, or as much as 0.015 percent, according to the agency.  
 Cellulosic ethanol, made from switchgrass, wood chips and
agricultural waste such as corn cobs, has been promoted as
having a smaller carbon footprint than fuel made from corn
because it provides less incentive to cut down trees or plow up
prairies to create cropland.  
 The Obama administration said it will continue to evaluate
the market as it works to make the cellulosic standard final in
coming months. The EPA “remains optimistic” that the
commercial availability of cellulosic biofuel will continue to
rise over the next few years, the agency said.  
 In February, the EPA slashed the cellulosic ethanol mandate
for this year by 94 percent, reducing the goal to 6.5 million
gallons from the 100 million required under a 2007 energy law.
The agency said corn-based ethanol produces less greenhouse-gas
emissions than previously anticipated, clearing the way for more
use of the fuel.  
 Congress passed a renewable-fuels standard in 2007 that
quadrupled the requirement for blending ethanol and other
biofuels into gasoline supplies, to 36 billion gallons by 2022.
The law also set interim goals.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kim Chipman  in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net ;
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        