-- Leslie Controls Files Prepackaged Chapter 11 Reorganization in Delaware
-- Dawn McCarty
-- 2010-07-12T12:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/leslie-controls-files-prepackaged-chapter-11-reorganization-in-delaware.html

          
          
             Leslie Controls Inc., a unit of
 Circor International  Inc. that equipped U.S. ships in wartime,
filed a pre-negotiated Chapter 11 reorganization to resolve
asbestos liability claims.  
 The valve-maker listed assets of as much as $50 million and
debt of as much as $100 million in Chapter 11 documents filed
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware. Circor
didn’t seek bankruptcy protection.  
 The company, founded in 1905 by J.S. Leslie, also
manufactures regulators, steam water heaters and controls.
Tampa, Florida-based Leslie was a major supplier of steam
control equipment for military and merchant ships during both
world wars.  
 “The cost of defending and resolving Asbestos PI Claims
asserted against Leslie has been and continues to be
substantial,” G. Wayne Day, Leslie’s chief restructuring
officer, said in court papers. Leslie has about 1,307 pending
asbestos personal-injury claims, according to court papers.  
 The Chapter 11 plan calls for establishment of a trust for
payment to holders of asbestos claims. The trust will funded by
a $75 million contribution from Leslie and Circor together with
proceeds from existing insurance policies and $2.6 million of
the proceeds from a settlement between Leslie and  Continental
Casualty Co. , court papers show.  
 Steam Piping  
 The claims primarily relate to the use of asbestos on U.S.
Navy ships from the 1940s to the 1980s to insulate steam piping
and valves, according to the filings. Some of the personal-
injury and wrongful-death claims relate to two small component
parts that were previously used inside the body of a Leslie
valve. The components were purchased from outside suppliers.  
 Under U.S. law, all litigation against a company or
individual seeking bankruptcy protection is put on hold while
the case is pending. A judge can grant a request to allow the
claims to proceed outside bankruptcy court in some instances.  
 The reorganization plan is supported by “many key members
of the plantiffs bar,” the company said in a statement. “Leslie
is confident that the plan will obtain the required approval of
75 percent of current asbestos claimants.”  
 The case is In re Leslie Controls Inc., 10-12199, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dawn McCarty  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        