-- EU Says Withholding Sovereign Risk Will Hurt Banks
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-07-12T16:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/eu-says-withholding-individual-sovereign-risk-may-hurt-investor-confidence.html

          
          
             The European Commission told
government officials that failure to publish individual banks’
exposure to sovereign debt could damage investor confidence.  
 “There is considerable opposition to the publication of
individual exposures to sovereign debt,” the European Union’s
executive arm said in a confidential letter dated July 9 that
was obtained by Bloomberg News. “Stepping back” from planned
publication of this information “would give the impression that
we have something to hide.”  
 EU regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks to
determine if they can survive potential losses on sovereign-bond
holdings. They are counting on the tests to reassure investors
about the health of financial institutions from  Germany ’s WestLB
AG and  Bayerische Landesbank  to Spanish savings banks as the
debt crisis pummels the bonds of  Greece , Spain and Portugal.  
 EU finance officials are currently debating how much detail
from the tests to disclose and how to manage their publication.
The results are scheduled to be released on July 23.  
 “We are increasingly worried to note an apparent weakening
of the commitment to transparency,” the commission said in the
letter to the EU’s Economic and Financial Committee, which
comprises senior officials from member states, the commission
and the  European Central Bank . If the tests aren’t “credible
and transparent,” there is a “high risk that it will
disappoint the markets.”  
 ‘Important Step’  
 The EFC prepares the agenda for monthly meetings of euro-
region finance ministers, who gathered in Brussels today. German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters before the
meeting that the tests will be an “important step” toward
easing investors’ concerns about banks’ strength.  
 Bond investors are gaining confidence in the ability of
banks to ride out the crisis, and are buying bank bonds at the
fastest pace in six months. The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and
Financial Services Index rose 0.3 percent today, extending its
gain this month to 8 percent.  
 The commission also said in the letter that regulators
should publish data on banks’ Tier 1 capital ratio that excludes
government aid.  
 “Some national supervisors have suggested that banks’ Tier
1 ratios without government support should not be published,”
it said. “We believe that these data should be published
because it constitutes important information for the markets.”  
 The Good, The Bad and The Ugly  
 The banks being tested account for 65 percent of Europe’s
banking industry. They include  Deutsche Bank AG  of Germany,
France’s  BNP Paribas  SA and ING Bank of the Netherlands,
according to the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors ,
which is organizing the tests.  
 “The market is skeptical,” Jeroen van den Broek, head of
developed markets credit strategy at  ING Groep NV  in Amsterdam,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today. “The most
important thing is that there is a differentiation in these
tests and the differentiation should really highlight the good,
the bad, and the ugly banks,”  
 Officials have yet to spell out how they would deal with a
bank that fails the tests and how additional capital may be
provided.  Credit Suisse Group AG  analysts said July 8 the “real
test” will be the readiness of governments to respond.  
 EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn
favors “financial backstops” that would start with national
funds and then involve a “second line” that would include the
governments being able to use the European Financial Stability
Facility set up in May to aid indebted nations.  
 ‘Responsibility’  
 “If it proves action is needed in a member state for a
specific bank then, at the same time the  stress test  is
published, a remedy has to be announced,” Dutch Finance
Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said. “That is firstly a
responsibility of the country.”  
 Stress tests on Portuguese banks showed they have “good”
solvency ratios,  Portugal ’s  Finance Ministry  said today in a
statement. Spain’s bank-rescue fund, which has earmarked as much
as 99 billion euros ($124 billion), will be “more than enough”
to cover losses even in a stressed scenario,  Fitch Ratings  said.  
 In Austria, about half of a 15 billion-euro domestic
package for banks is still available, Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said, signaling the country could do without European
support.  
 “We have enough room for maneuver if it will be
necessary,” Proell told reporters in Brussels.  
 One concern is that the tests aren’t rigorous enough and
won’t assume large enough potential losses, said ING’s van den
Broek. Regulators have told lenders the assessments may assume a
loss of about 17 percent on Greek government debt, 3 percent on
Spanish bonds and none on German debt, said two people briefed
on the matter who declined to be identified.  
 “We have to assume real times of stress, not levels where
the market was at the beginning of May,” van den Broek said,
adding that he estimated the so-called haircut on Greek debt
should be “in excess of 50 percent.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Brussels at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn speaks during a news conference in Luxembourg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn speaks during a news conference in Luxembourg. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Jeroen van den Broek, a credit strategist at ING Groep NV, discusses the outlook for stress tests being conducted on European banks to see whether they could withstand losses if the region's debt crisis worsens.
     Van de Broek talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Netherlands Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager talks with Bloomberg's Francine Lacqua about the financing of European banks.
     European Union regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks in an attempt to reassure investors about the institutions’ resilience to potential losses as the debt crisis pummels the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal. They spoke in Brussels yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Fabian Zuleeg, a senior policy analyst at the European Policy Centre, talks about the outlook for the banks that fail European stress tests.
     Regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks to determine if they can survive potential losses on sovereign-bond holdings. Zuleeg speaks in Brussels with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- John Lipsky, first deputy managing editor at the International Monetary Fund, talks about stress tests for European banks.
     Lipsky, speaking with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack," also discusses central bank monetary policies and outlook for financial regulation. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
