-- EU Officials Want Banks to Seek Private Cash Before State Help
-- Rainer Buergin
-- 2010-07-13T08:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/eu-wants-banks-to-raise-funds-before-seeking-aid-if-tests-signal-weakness.html

          
          
             European officials said banks must
try to raise money themselves before seeking state support if
stress tests by regulators reveal “vulnerabilities.”  
 “It is firstly up to the banks themselves,” Dutch Finance
Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said in Brussels late yesterday after
a meeting with euro-area counterparts. “They will get a certain
period to refinance themselves in the market, but the countries
will immediately announce that there is a certain backstop.”  
 European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said banks should first look at “financing from the
markets” to build up capital buffers. If that fails, the
“first public line of defense” will be national funds.
“Vulnerabilities” will be examined “case by case,” he said.  
 EU regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks in an
attempt to reassure investors about the institutions’ resilience
to potential losses as the debt crisis pummels the bonds of  Greece , Spain and Portugal. Moody’s Investors Service today cut
its rating on Portugal by two levels to A1. The euro extended
its decline against the dollar after the announcement.  
 The euro was down 0.5 percent to $1.2533 as of 10:25 a.m.
in Brussels. It has fallen 12 percent this year. The Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index rose 0.2 percent.  
 ‘Disappoint’  
 The stress-test results are scheduled to be released on
July 23. As officials discuss how to manage their publication,
the European Commission is pushing governments to reveal
individual lenders’ exposure to sovereign debt.  
 “There is considerable opposition to the publication of
individual exposures to sovereign debt,” the EU’s executive arm
said in a confidential letter dated July 9 that was obtained by
Bloomberg News. If the tests aren’t “credible,” there is a
“high risk that it will disappoint the markets.”  
 The banks being tested account for 65 percent of Europe’s
banking industry. They include  Deutsche Bank AG  of Germany,
France’s  BNP Paribas  SA and ING Bank of the Netherlands,
according to the  Committee of European Banking Supervisors ,
which is organizing the tests. German state-owned lenders known
as Landesbanken and Spanish savings banks are also covered.  
 “It’s about market perception,” said  Brian Coulton , head
of global economics at  Fitch Ratings  in  London . “If it’s
successful in allowing markets to more easily differentiate
between stronger and weaker banks, and not tarring whole systems
with the same brush, then it will have been very useful.”  
 ‘Operational’  
 Regulators have told lenders the assessments may assume a
loss of about 17 percent on Greek government debt, 3 percent on
Spanish bonds and none on German debt, said two people briefed
on the matter who declined to be identified.  
 Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, signaled it was up to governments
to address capital shortfalls at banks.  
 “National supervisory authorities and national governments
have to deal with the matter,” he said. “I don’t have great
concerns regarding this because governments are prepared to act
in such a situation.”  
 Rehn has previously said that once national facilities had
been used, a “second line” of defense could include
governments tapping the European Financial Stability Facility,
which was set up in May for nations struggling to raise funds.  
 That facility is “almost fully operational,” EFSF Chief
Executive Officer Klaus Regling said.  
 ‘Pretty Well’  
 Stress tests on Portuguese banks showed they have “good”
solvency ratios,  Portugal ’s Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Greek Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said he is “confident” that Greece’s banks
will come out of the stress tests “pretty well.”  
 Spanish Finance Minister Elena Salgado said she was “very
confident” about the results of Spain’s bank as Fitch Ratings
said the country’s 99 billion-euro ($125 billion) bank-rescue
fund will be “more than enough,” even in a stressed scenario.  
 In Austria, about half of a 15 billion-euro domestic
package for banks is still available, Finance Minister  Josef Proell  said, indicating the nation can do without European help.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Brussels at  erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Brussels at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn  
                       
                         
                           Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg 
                         
                         European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn speaks during a news conference in Luxembourg. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn speaks during a news conference in Luxembourg. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Netherlands Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager talks with Bloomberg's Francine Lacqua about the financing of European banks.
     European Union regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks in an attempt to reassure investors about the institutions’ resilience to potential losses as the debt crisis pummels the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal. They spoke in Brussels yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Coulton, head of European sovereign ratings at Fitch Ratings Ltd., talks about Portugal's credit rating cut by rival agency Moody’s Investors Service.
     Coulton, speaking in London, also discusses the stress tests on European banks. He talks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Jeroen van den Broek, a credit strategist at ING Groep NV, discusses the outlook for stress tests being conducted on European banks to see whether they could withstand losses if the region's debt crisis worsens.
     Van de Broek talks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
