-- Europe IPO Filings Climb as Offerings Beat U.S. in Debt Crisis
-- Zijing Wu
-- 2010-07-13T15:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/european-ipo-filings-climb-as-offerings-outperform-u-s-during-debt-crisis.html

          
          
             European companies are preparing the
most initial public offerings in two years after IPOs weathered
the region’s debt crisis and outperformed U.S. deals.  
 Fairfield Energy Plc, Stroer Out-of-Home Media AG and 57
other companies filed with regulators in the past three months
to raise $14.2 billion through initial sales, the most since the
second quarter of 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
European IPOs advanced an average of 3.5 percent this year as of
yesterday’s close, while newly listed U.S. shares slid 7.6
percent, the data show.  
 More European companies went public last month than in any
period since July 2008. While concern about widening deficits
drove the benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  down as much as 15
percent this year, Ernst & Young LLP and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
forecast that offerings will increase after nine of the 10
biggest IPOs of 2010 posted gains.  
 “The European IPO market is no longer a wasteland,” said
 Julie Teigland , a Frankfurt-based partner at Ernst & Young who
oversees the strategy for companies seeking capital in Europe,
the Middle East, India and Africa. “The fact that they had such
a strong performance even during the debt crisis gives people
hope.”  
 IPOs from 77 companies in western Europe have raised $13.7
billion this year, exceeding the $12.9 billion in 83 U.S.
initial sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show. While 38
American companies have postponed or withdrawn offerings, 12
were shelved in Europe, according to the data.  
 North Sea Oil  
 Fairfield Energy of Middlesex, England, which explores for
oil in the North Sea, and Ocado Ltd., an online grocer in
Hatfield, England, will seek to raise a combined 1 billion
pounds ($1.5 billion) this month in London IPOs.  
 Stroer , the Cologne, Germany-based outdoor advertising
company, has said it seeks proceeds of about 275 million euros
($349 million) from an initial offering and is scheduled to
start trading in Frankfurt on July 15.  
 The offerings are coming after Hoersholm, Denmark-based
 Christian Hansen Holding A/S , Jupiter Fund Management Plc in
London,  Amadeus IT Holding SA  of Madrid and Issy-les-Moulineaux,
France-based Medica gained at least 10 percent following IPOs
that raised more than $300 million, Bloomberg data show.  
 Primerica Inc.  and  Oasis Petroleum Inc.  of Houston are the
only U.S. companies to climb more than 10 percent after an
initial sale of at least $300 million this year, according to
Bloomberg data. Duluth, Georgia-based Primerica, the insurance
business that  Sanford I. “Sandy” Weill  used to build Citigroup
Inc., rallied 37 percent after raising $320 million in March.  
 ‘Exceptionally Well’  
 “The sizeable European deals are doing exceptionally well
if compared with large IPOs elsewhere,” said  Chris Whitman ,
London-based global co-head of equity capital markets at
Deutsche Bank AG. “This is positive for future deals.”  
 Some of the biggest European IPOs are still trading below
the original price sought by the company.  Essar Energy Plc ,
India’s second-largest private power producer, climbed  4.5
percent  to 439 pence since raising 1.27 billion pounds in
London’s biggest sale of the year on April 30. That left the
shares 2.4 percent below the low end of the initial offering
range of 450 pence to 550 pence, Bloomberg data show.  
 Speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will curb economic
growth and keep stock-market volatility elevated may also weigh
on IPOs in the second half of the year, according to  John Crompton , HSBC Holdings Plc’s London-based head of equity
capital markets.  
 Stock Volatility  
 The U.S. economy will grow 3.1 percent this year, compared
with the 1.1 percent rate for the group of 16 countries using
the euro and the U.K.’s 1.2 percent, economists’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Before today, the  VStoxx Index , a gauge of equity-market
volatility that measures the cost of protecting against declines
in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, climbed 43 percent since March 26.  
 “Investors still feel a bit uncomfortable about current
volatility levels,” HSBC’s Crompton said. For IPOs, “the main
challenge is market-based,” he said.  
 Still, the VStoxx has retreated more than 40 percent since
May 20 and was down 4.9 percent at 26.88 today. The  Stoxx 600 
posted its biggest gain in a year last week as the Washington-
based International Monetary Fund raised its forecast for global
economic growth.  
 ‘Survived the Angst’  
 Equity strategists surveyed by Bloomberg last month
projected that the fastest expansion in  corporate profits  since
2004 will send European stocks to their biggest two-year advance
in a decade.  
 “It’s reassuring that many European IPOs this year have
survived the angst around the sovereign crisis and have
performed pretty well,” said  Viswas Raghavan , London-based head
of international capital markets at JPMorgan, this year’s
biggest underwriter of IPOs in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa. “Now with things looking calmer, the second half could
be more exciting given the strong pipeline.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Amadeus IT Holding CEO David Jones  
                       
                         
                           Amadeus IT Holding SA via Bloomberg 
                         
                         David Jones, chief executive officer of  Amadeus IT Holding SA. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     David Jones, chief executive officer of  Amadeus IT Holding SA. Source: Amadeus IT Holding SA via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
