-- Euro Declines Versus Dollar on Concern Stress Tests Won't Assure Investors
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-12T20:19:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/euro-falls-against-dollar-for-second-day-on-renewed-sovereign-debt-concern.html

          
          
             The euro fell from almost a two-
month high against the dollar and slid versus the yen on
speculation tests to demonstrate the resilience of the region’s
banking system will fail to assure investors.  
 Sterling dropped for a third day in the longest stretch of
decline since May as Standard & Poor’s maintained a negative
outlook for the U.K.’s top credit rating. The yen and dollar
appreciated against most of their major counterparts as U.S.
stocks fluctuated, discouraging demand for riskier assets.  
 “People are worried about the transparency of the
information that will be released from the stress tests,” said
 John Doyle , a strategist at the currency-trading firm Tempus
Consulting Inc. in Washington. “There’s nervousness that
they’re not going to provide the details that some investors are
looking for. That uncertainty would weigh on the euro.”  
 The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.2595 at 4:12 p.m. in New
York, from $1.2641 on July 9, when it touched $1.2722, the
highest level since May 12. The euro slipped 0.4 percent to
111.54 yen, from 112.01. The dollar was little changed at 88.61
yen, compared with 88.62.  
 Australia’s dollar dropped 0.4 percent to 77.43 yen and the
Brazilian real slid 0.6 percent to 1.7655 versus the U.S.
currency as investors sought refuge. The yen typically
strengthens during times of financial uncertainty because
Japan’s trade surplus frees the nation from dependence on
overseas capital. The dollar benefits as the world’s main
reserve currency.  
 The  S&P 500 Index  was little changed after rallying 5.4
percent last week. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index pared its gain
today, rising 0.4 percent.  
 Weaker Pound  
 Sterling slid 0.2 percent to $1.5033, from $1.5064 on July
9, after S&P maintained its negative outlook for the U.K.’s
debt. The currency earlier touched $1.4949, the lowest level
since July 1. The pound pared its gain versus the euro, rising
0.1 percent to 83.77 pence.  
 “The agencies remain wary of the U.K. fiscal trajectory,”
 Win Thin , a senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co. in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “The
ratings agencies will continue to provide reality checks from
time to time regarding sovereign risk.”  
 The 16-nation euro weakened versus the dollar and yen as
European financial ministers gathered in Brussels today to
discuss how much detail to disclose after regulators examine the
ability of 91 European banks to withstand losses on sovereign-
debt holdings.  
 German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters
before the meeting that the tests will be an “important step”
toward easing investors’ concerns.  
 Mundell’s View  
 Spain, Portugal and Ireland face a 20 percent risk of
having to restructure their public debt while the likelihood is
40 percent for Greece and 10 percent for Italy, said  Robert Mundell , a Columbia University professor who won the Nobel Prize
in 1999 for research that helped lay the foundation for Europe’s
single currency. He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in Siena, Italy, yesterday.  
 The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain dropped to 38,909 on July 6, compared with
record net shorts of 113,890 on May 11, figures from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed on July 9.  
 Investors may look to establish new short positions in the
shared currency before results of banking stress tests are
released, according to  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency
strategy at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York.  
 Euro ‘Fatigue’  
 “What we’re seeing is a little bit of consolidation and a
little bit of fatigue as far as the euro rally is concerned,”
Bennenbroek said. “Those who have been rallying along with the
euro may take some of those long euro positions off the table
surrounding that event risk.”  
 The euro gained 0.6 percent versus the dollar last week,
rising for a second week. The currency appreciated for the first
time in three weeks versus the yen, advancing 1.6 percent.  
 Investors may sell the euro when it reaches $1.27,
Bennenbroek said. A short is a bet that the price of a currency
will fall, while a long is a bet it will gain.  
 Greece will offer 1.25 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of 26-
week bills tomorrow in its first debt sale since accepting a
European Union-led bailout in May.  
 The government may sell the debt to local banks at a rate
close to 5 percent, the level the EU charged in its portion of
the rescue package, according to  Padhraic Garvey , a fixed-income
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. A 26-week bill maturing
in January was bid at 5.7 percent at the end of last week,
according to prices at Barclays Plc.  
 “It will give us an indication of whether or not credit
strains are easing in Europe,” said  Andrew Busch , a global
currency strategist at Bank of Montreal in Chicago.  
 The yen dropped earlier against the dollar after Japan’s
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s party lost control of the upper house
of parliament, potentially slowing efforts to rein in the
world’s largest  public debt .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        