-- European Stocks Gain for Fifth Day as BP Rallies; Zodiac Aerospace Rises
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-07-12T16:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-asian-shares-u-s-futures-drop.html

          
          
             European stocks  advanced for a fifth
straight day as BP Plc rallied the most since 2008 after saying
it may be able to stop the flow of oil from its leaking Gulf of
Mexico well.  
 BP, the fifth-biggest stock in the benchmark Stoxx Europe
600 Index, jumped 9.4 percent, further boosted by reports that
Exxon Mobil Corp. may bid for the oil company and that it’s
selling assets in Alaska.  Zodiac Aerospace SA  advanced 7.1
percent after rejecting a takeover approach from Safran SA.
 Getinge AB  climbed 4.5 percent as the world’s largest maker of
surgical workstations reported increased profit.  
 The  Stoxx 600  rose 0.4 percent to 251.18 as investors
prepared for Alcoa Inc. to unofficially kick off the U.S.
earnings season. The gauge posted the biggest gain in a year
last week amid easing concern about the economic recovery and
speculation that the selloff in equities since April has
overshot the outlook for company profits.  
 “Investors have been particularly keen to buy BP on hope
that new efforts today to install a containment cap over the
leak will succeed,” said  Giles Watts , London-based head of
equities at City Index. “Talk of asset sales and potential bids
are also keeping investors active.”  
 National benchmark indexes rose in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  climbed 0.7 percent,
France’s CAC 40 gained 0.4 percent and Germany’s DAX increased
0.2 percent.  
 Earnings Season  
 Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, is due to become
the first member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average to post
second-quarter  earnings  when it releases results after the close
of New York trading today. A total of 23 companies in the S&P
500, including Google Inc. and Citigroup Inc. will report
earnings this week, according to Bloomberg data.  
 “Earnings shouldn’t be too bad but we need to keep in mind
that the estimates are quite aggressive so there could be room
for disappointment,” said  Markus Steinbeis , head of equity
portfolio management at the Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of
Pioneer Investments, which oversees about $221 billion globally.
“The focus in the coming weeks will definitely be much more in
the area of earnings.”  
 In the U.K., the number of companies missing sales and
earnings targets may increase as the government’s spending cuts
to reduce the budget deficit hit the “fragile” recovery,
according to Ernst & Young. While the number of companies
issuing profit warnings fell to 45 in the second quarter, the
lowest in seven years, they may increase later this year, Ernst
& Young said in a report released yesterday.  
 BP Rallies  
 BP  soared  9.4 percent to 398.95 pence, the biggest gain
since November 2008. Should the Gulf of Mexico oil well pass a
48-hour test pressure test which might start as early as today,
BP may be able to stop the leak,  Doug Suttles , the company’s
chief operating officer for exploration and production, told
reporters on a conference call. A relief well will still be
needed for a permanent plug, he said.  
 Separately, the Sunday Times reported that Exxon has been
told by the U.S. government it can look at a potential bid for
BP. In addition, people familiar with the matter said the U.K.
company is in talks to sell assets to Apache Corp. for a price
of less than $12 billion.  
 Zodiac Aerospace climbed 7.1 percent to 42.62 euros as
Europe’s  biggest maker  of airplane seats rejected a takeover
approach from jet-engine-maker Safran, saying the companies have
little overlap or potential cost savings.  
 Getinge, VW  
 Getinge  advanced 4.5 percent to 162 kronor after saying
second-quarter net income rose to 487 million kronor ($64.6
million) from 330 million kronor a year earlier. Analysts had
estimated a profit of 476 million kronor, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Groupe SEB SA, the world’s largest maker of countertop
kitchen appliances, rallied 6.3 percent to 58.48 euros as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. upgraded the shares to “buy” from
“neutral.”  
 DnB NOR ASA climbed 5.8 percent to 72.7 kroner. Norway’s
biggest bank wants to conduct more investment banking in Asia
and help Norwegian companies establish a second listing in
Singapore, Dagens Naeringsliv reported today, citing  Erik Borgen , the lender’s regional director for Asia.  
 Volkswagen AG  gained 1.5 percent to 73.22 euros. The
biggest foreign carmaker in China boosted sales in the nation 46
percent in the first half after introducing new models to
attract consumers in the world’s largest vehicle market.  
 Kontron AG sank 18 percent to 6.17 euros, the most since
2002, after the maker of miniature computers for slot machines
and drone aircraft said it’s setting aside 34 million euros
($42.8 million) for outstanding debts in Malaysia, Taiwan and
Hong Kong.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Nick Nelson, a strategist at UBS AG, talks about the outlook for the second-quarter earnings season in Europe.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
