-- European Banks Poised to Win Reprieve on Capital Rule
-- Simon Clark
-- 2010-07-13T16:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/european-banks-poised-to-win-reprieve-in-basel-on-how-capital-is-defined.html

          
          
             European banks, rattled by investor
uncertainty about their ability to withstand a sovereign-debt
crisis, are poised to win a reprieve in  Basel , Switzerland, this
week as regulators from 27 countries shape new capital rules.  
 A push to water down stringent standards proposed last year
by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , and to allow more
time to implement them, is led by France and  Germany , according
to bankers, regulators and lobbyists involved in the talks.
Representatives from the U.S. and the U.K., who have sought to
rein in risk-taking, are willing to compromise on how capital is
defined to reach an agreement at a committee meeting that begins
tomorrow, the people said.  
 Another concession may involve granting transition periods
of up to 10 years to ease concerns of some member countries that
their banks and economies won’t be able to bear the burden of
tougher capital requirements until a recovery takes hold. As a
result, the amount of capital European banks will be forced to
raise in the next two years won’t be as much as investors fear.  
 “Politicians in France and Germany are worried about the
impact of the rules on their economies,” said Chris Bates, a
regulatory lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP in  London . “Basel has
managed to bring diverging banking systems and economies
together. It’s more than just a capital regime. It’s a showcase
of global cooperation. So the U.S. and the U.K. cannot let it
break down.”  
 European bank stocks rose today, with the Bloomberg  Europe 
Banks and Financial Services Index gaining 2.5 percent.  
 G-20 Request  
 The 36-year-old Basel committee, a body of central bankers
and regulators that sets capital standards for banks worldwide,
was asked by the Group of 20 nations to draft new rules after
the worst financial crisis in 70 years caused firms to write off
$1.8 trillion. G-20 leaders urged the committee to improve the
quantity and quality of bank capital, strengthen liquidity
requirements and discourage excessive leverage. They set a
deadline of December for making the rules and originally gave
countries until the end of 2012 to implement them.  
 Three months ago, European leaders and finance ministers,
including those from Germany and France, were as adamant as
their American and British counterparts in pushing back against
banks’ objections to proposed rules that  UBS AG  estimated could
force banks to raise $375 billion of capital, according to the
regulators and bankers, who asked not to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to speak. Fifty-five percent of that
would have to be raised by European banks, UBS said.  
 Then  Greece ’s debt woes unnerved investors, making European
leaders more receptive to what the banks were saying, according
to the people.  
 ‘Wiggle Room’  
 At their meeting in  Toronto  last month, G-20 leaders hinted
at delays. While continuing to urge stricter capital and
liquidity standards, they said implementation could take
economic conditions of member states into account.  
 “The challenge of the eurozone crisis clearly played into
the Toronto document,” said  Barbara Matthews , a former bank
lobbyist and now managing director of BCM International
Regulatory Analytics LLC in  Washington . “It gave wiggle room on
implementation.”  
 Even if they’re softened and delayed, the new capital
rules, known as Basel III, will force banks to take fewer risks
and be better capitalized, said Paul Miller, an analyst for FBR
Capital Markets Corp. based in Arlington, Virginia.  
 “There’s a misperception out there that Basel III isn’t
going to happen, or if it does it will be so watered down it
won’t matter,” Miller said. “Even with the tweaks in the next
few months, they’ll come up with a pretty strong framework.”  
 Fixing  Basel II   
 The Basel III  proposal  attempts to fix the shortcomings of
an earlier revision, known as Basel II, which was initiated by
lenders in the late 1990s and lowered  capital requirements  by as
much as 29 percent for some banks. The new rules would tighten
control of what goes into the banks’ calculation of risk,
redefine what counts as capital and impose higher charges
against holdings such as derivatives.  
 The committee is expected to decide on the definition of
capital this week and defer issues such as  capital ratios  until
its meetings in September and October, according to members.  
 One part of the definition would exclude minority interests
that banks hold in other financial institutions when calculating
common equity on the theory that they can’t readily withdraw the
capital. Many European lenders, which have lobbied against the
rule, have non-controlling stakes in emerging-market banks that
would no longer count as the highest level of capital, while the
assets of the subsidiaries would have to be included in the
banks’ risks.  
   BNP Paribas , HSBC  
 The change would have the largest impact on European
lenders of all the proposed capital rules, UBS said in a March
report. BNP Paribas SA, France’s largest bank by assets, would
see its capital lowered by $10.7 billion, more than any lender,
if it couldn’t count minority interests, analysts at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. wrote in February. London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc 
would have its capital reduced by $6.9 billion, and  Societe
Generale  SA, the third-biggest French bank, $4.7 billion.  
 European banks are likely to win a concession on the
minority-stakes rule, according to the people involved in the
talks. One possible compromise would allow a bank to count part
of its stake in relation to the risk the capital is supposed to
cover at the entity in which it invested, the people say.  
 The fight over whether to count minority stakes comes as
the Basel committee is trying to counter an attack by bankers
who have said that harsh rules come with costs. Investors will
pay with lower returns from owning securities in their firms,
and Main Street will suffer as economic growth and lending slow
and fewer jobs are created, bankers say.  
 ‘Never Free’  
 A study released in June by the  Institute of International
Finance , which represents more than 375 financial companies,
said the regulations could erase 3.1 percent of gross domestic
product in the U.S., the euro region and Japan by 2015. About
9.7 million fewer jobs could be created over the five-year
period than would otherwise be the case, the IIF said.  
 Regulation is “never free,” said Bank of  New York  Mellon
Corp. Chief Executive Officer Robert Kelly, who visited London
and Brussels in June to meet lawmakers and regulators with the
Financial Services Roundtable, a Washington-based industry
group. “There has to be some impact on growth and jobs.”  
 The Basel committee, whose members have touted the benefits
of financial stability, is preparing its own economic impact
study with the help of the Bank for International Settlements in
Basel and the  International Monetary Fund .  
 Economic Impact  
 “Preliminary results do not point to a growth problem
coming from the regulation,” Jaime Caruana, general manager of
the BIS, said in Basel on June 28. “On the contrary, it would
support resilience relatively rapidly.”  
 The Basel committee may publish the study later this month
or in August, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. The report is expected to show an impact on economic
growth of about one-third what the IIF calculated, another
person familiar with the research said.  
 U.S. regulators also have been dubious about the banks’
analysis. The  Federal Reserve , which is collecting data from
banks for a separate impact study, has rejected some of the
lenders’ assumptions and asked for changes, according to people
familiar with the discussions.  
 The Basel committee plans to announce its rules by the time
G-20 leaders gather in  Seoul  in November. In addition to
defining capital, the group needs to determine three ratios
before then: one on common equity as a percentage of risk-
weighted assets; one involving Tier 1 capital, which includes
securities that could help a lender cover unexpected losses; and
one on Tier 2 capital, which incorporates a broader range of
securities that would protect depositors and creditors in case
of insolvency.  
 Defining Capital  
 Banks currently need to hold capital equal to a minimum of
8 percent of risk-weighted assets. Half of that must be Tier 1
and half of the Tier 1 needs to be common stock. The Basel
committee might triple the common ratio requirement and double
Tier 1, FBR’s Miller estimates.  
 How the committee defines what counts as capital is as
important as what the ratios are. In addition to the fight over
whether to exclude minority stakes, there is a debate over
deferred tax assets, past losses that lenders use to offset tax
charges in future years.  
 The proposed Basel rules would prevent banks from counting
these assets as part of their core capital. Japanese banks,
which rely on deferred tax assets more than their counterparts
in Europe and the U.S., are leading the campaign to block the
exclusion, according to people involved in the talks. While the
proposal might not change, the Basel committee may accept a
phase-in period of between 5 and 10 years, the people say.  
 Liquidity Requirements  
 The committee may also relax the implementation of other
rules by giving national regulators two years from the beginning
of 2012 to come up with plans to put the regulations into
effect, the people involved in the discussions say. Each part of
the proposal might have its own time horizon.  
 Final versions of some Basel rules, including new liquidity
requirements for how much cash banks need to hold, may not be
agreed upon before the November G-20 meeting.  
 A liquidity coverage ratio is designed to ensure that all
of a bank’s liabilities coming due in a month can be paid with
cash and other assets, such as Treasuries, that can be sold
easily for cash. A net stable funding ratio extends the same
concept to a year, incorporating other holdings, such as short-
term loans and stocks. Banks objected to the long-term rule,
which could result in new debt issuance of $5.4 trillion,  Barclays Plc  analysts estimated in June.  
 Counterparty Risk  
 The target date for publishing the rule may be pushed back
to the middle of next year, four committee members said.  
 Another source of disagreement between European and U.S.
regulators is a change that would increase capital charges on
banks to cover counterparty credit risk, or the likelihood of
trading partners going bust, the people said.  
 That portion of Basel III would create a buffer against the
kind of danger posed by  American International Group Inc . during
the credit crisis. U.S. and European banks thought they had
hedged their mortgage investments through derivatives contracts
with AIG, which couldn’t keep up with increased cash demands as
the values of the bonds declined. The U.S. government bailed out
the insurer, concerned that its collapse would bring down banks
that bought the derivatives.  
 The Basel committee probably won’t make a decision about
counterparty risk this week, deferring the issue until October,
members say. At least one said he expected the matter will be
delayed to next year.  
 ‘More Politicized’  
 Issues that can’t be resolved by the Basel committee may be
settled by the G-20 leaders in November, members say.  
 “The regulatory space has been far more politicized than
I’ve ever seen it,” said BCM’s Matthews, who has been involved
with Basel rulemaking for two decades. “Heads of state care,
have opinions and are aware of decisions at very granular
levels.”  
 One proposal European banks and regulators tried to get rid
of -- and that U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
advocated -- has survived and made it into the Toronto G-20
statement. That’s a plan to cap bank leverage by setting a ratio
of assets to capital. While current Basel rules allow banks to
assign weights to assets based on their risks, the  leverage
ratio  would look at all assets without a  risk assessment .  
 European banks appear more highly levered than their U.S.
counterparts partly because U.S. accounting rules allow more
assets to be kept off balance sheets than European standards do.
The two systems differ on which types of securitizations are
included on the books and how derivatives contracts are netted.  
 Lower Returns  
 As envisioned in the Basel proposal, the leverage ratio
will initially be used to provide guidance to national
regulators in their assessments of banks’ soundness. Only later,
after accounting differences between countries are resolved,
would it become a requirement.  
 BNY Mellon’s Kelly said the original Basel proposals would
have forced some banks’ return on equity, a measure of
profitability, to mid-single digits.  
 “If that was true, then they effectively become
government utilities, because you couldn’t really raise capital
in the private markets after that,” he said.  
 ‘Unsustainable’ Returns  
 Bankers worried about maintaining existing returns may be
missing the point, according to Basel committee Chairman Nout Wellink, who is also president of the Dutch central bank. The
purpose of the new rules is to change the business model of
banks, he said at an IIF meeting in Vienna last month.  
 “More stable, less leveraged banks would raise average
ratings, improve the terms on which banks could raise funds, and
lower the required return on equity,” Wellink said.  
 That view was reinforced in the Bank for International
Settlements’ latest  annual report , published June 28.  
 “High shareholder returns in the sector were unsustainable
because they were generated by high leverage and risk-taking
that proved to be unmanageable in a period of stress,” the
report said. “Lower returns on equity could actually be a
desirable outcome for the long-term investor as well as for the
economy at large.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alec McCabe at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Anders Aslund, a senior fellow at Peterson Institute of International Economics, discusses the outlook for European bank stress tests.
     Aslund talks with Margaret Brennan on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
