-- Texas Rangers Sued by Greenberg-Ryan Bidder Group Over Sale Agreement
-- Steven Church
-- 2010-07-12T18:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/texas-rangers-sued-by-greenberg-nolan-ryan-group-over-purchase-agreement.html

          
          
             The Texas Rangers were sued by a
bidder group led by  Nolan Ryan  and  Chuck Greenberg , who accused
the team of breaching their sale agreement for the Major League
Baseball club.  
 The Rangers violated the deal by soliciting and negotiating
with other potential buyers, the Greenberg-Ryan group said in
court papers filed today in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Fort
Worth, Texas. They asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge D.  Michael Lynn 
to stop the team from talking to potential competing bidders.  
 William Snyder, the chief restructuring officer for the
equity owners, has said the Rangers may negotiate with a new
buyer to lead off bidding at an auction.  
 “The CRO does not, and never had, any authority to solicit
alternative bids or negotiate with prospective bidders,” the
Greenberg-Ryan group said.  
 Snyder declined to comment.  
 After filing for bankruptcy in May, the Rangers sought
court permission to sell the club to a group led by Greenberg,
an attorney, and Nolan Ryan, a Hall of Fame pitcher and the
team’s president, in a transaction it valued at $575 million.  
 Snyder was appointed to oversee two companies that own the
Rangers. Those companies are units of HSG Sports Group LLC, the
holding company of Texas businessman  Tom Hicks .  
 Last week, the Rangers abandoned a request to hold a July
16 auction after Snyder withdrew his support,  Martin Sosland ,
the Rangers’ bankruptcy lawyer, said.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net 
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        