-- Fannie, Freddie U.S. Regulator Subpoenas Firms That Sold Debt to Companies
-- Lorraine Woellert
-- 2010-07-12T16:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/fannie-freddie-u-s-regulator-subpoenas-firms-that-sold-debt-to-companies.html

          
          
             The  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
subpoenaed firms that sold mortgage-backed securities to  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  as the regulator aims to determine whether
issuers can be held liable for losses on the debt.  
 FHFA, which has overseen the government-sponsored mortgage
companies since they were placed under conservatorship in
September 2008, issued 64 subpoenas seeking loan files and
transaction documents, FHFA said today in a  news release . The
U.S. is trying to determine whether misrepresentations or
omissions might require issuers to repurchase loans, FHFA said.  
 “By obtaining these documents we can assess whether
contractual violations or other breaches have taken place
leading to losses for the enterprises and thus taxpayers,” FHFA
Acting Director  Edward J. DeMarco  said in the statement.  
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the largest sources of funding
for U.S. residential mortgages, relied on so-called private-
label debt backed by subprime loans to help meet a federal
mandate to promote homeownership. The federal government took
control of the companies in 2008 after the collapse of the U.S.
mortgage market pushed them toward insolvency. They have been
sustained by a promise of unlimited Treasury Department aid that
has yielded $145 billion for the companies so far.  
 FHFA said documents were being sought only for securities
the agency plans to review and declined to say which companies
were subpoenaed. Recipients have 30 days to provide the
requested documents, the agency said in its statement.  
 Financial Inquiry  
 “This is a financial inquiry, not an investigation or a
lawsuit,” FHFA said. “The conservator seeks the information to
determine whether losses sustained by the enterprises are the
legal responsibility of others and to ensure that the
obligations of the various parties involved have been met.”  
 Mortgage-backed securities issuers including  JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  are fighting lawsuits from
private investors who claim they were misled about the health of
loans they packaged and sold.  
 Fannie Mae, based in Washington, and Freddie Mac of McLean,
Virginia, own or guarantee more than half of the $11 trillion
U.S. mortgage market. As of May, Fannie Mae owned $87.1 billion
worth of mortgage-backed securities and Freddie Mac held $168.1
billion, according to regulatory filings.  
 Given their role in the mortgage market, Fannie and Freddie
had the data necessary to determine whether the pools of loans
they were buying were healthy, said  Anne Canfield , executive
director of the Consumer Mortgage Coalition, a Washington trade
group of residential mortgage lenders.  
 “Of anybody in the market they had the ability to assess
what the underlying quality was of those mortgages,” Canfield
said today in a telephone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lorraine Woellert  in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        