-- Finding $12 Wines That Punch Above Their Weight: John Mariani
-- John Mariani
-- 2010-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/finding-12-wines-that-punch-above-their-weight-john-mariani.html

          
          
             Over the years I’ve spent very
little time trolling through sales bins at wine stores because
90 percent of the time the offerings are poor sellers or excess
inventory of undistinguished, already cheap wines.  
 But I’m not so flush these days that I can snub a good
bargain, and out of professional interest I decided to check out
some recent discount sales at fine wine stores and see what was
worthwhile. I found that, as never before, much better wines are
being offered at much better prices, owing to a huge post-
recession wine glut.  
 Recent auction prices have shown that first-growth Bordeaux
and the most illustrious Burgundies are going for record bids,
but below that firmament, little is selling well, especially out
of France.  
 More than Italy, Spain and South America, France has not
been able to export enough interesting, full-flavored wines at
moderate prices (under $15 a bottle) to keep sales from
flagging, aside from a few successes like Gallo-owned $8  Red
Bicyclette  -- even after a French court convicted 12 members of
the Languedoc wine industry last February of illegally blending
cheap merlot and syrah into 18 million bottles of the pinot
noir-based label.  
 So when I spotted an ad -- one of many these days -- for
deep discounts at the fine-wine store  Zachys  in Scarsdale, New
York, that read “The $12 Sale Is Back!” I thought it worth a
drive to see what’s going cheap. I chose a dozen or so bottles
based on what looked intriguing, hedging my bets by siding with
Chile, Spain and Italy.  
 Summer Food  
 After tasting all of them, alone and with summer food, I
have to say I was really delighted with the majority.  
 Some of the wines had been marked down from as high as $23,
though most had been about $17. At $12 a bottle, I would
certainly drink the good ones any night of the week and happily
even pay list price for some. Most important, my tastings showed
that producers are shipping quality matched to price in just
about every kind of varietal, from barbera d’alba to shiraz.  
 One of the most impressive was a full-bodied, fleshy Altos
de Luzon 2006 from Jumilla in Spain, made with 50 percent
monastrell, 25 percent cabernet sauvignon, and 25 percent
tempranillo -- a blend normally found in more expensive
bottlings. It showed bold tannins and enough spice for a meal of
roast chicken with white beans and tangy-hot salsa verde.  
 From Spain’s  Ribera del Duero  region came a solidly knit
Creta Roble 2006, 100 percent tempranillo grown at 850 meters
(2,700 feet), where the coolness calms the grape and gives the
finished wine a finesse as well as a nice bite of acid at the
finish. I drank this with a very-rare porterhouse and nothing
but a shake of sea salt and black pepper. Perfect!  
 Violet Notes  
 A third Spanish bottling, Borsao Crianza Seleccion 2006, is
another example of how modestly priced wines need not be one-
dimensional. This is a blend of 50 percent grenache, 25 percent
tempranillo, and the remainder cabernet sauvignon, so that the
violet notes of the grenache play off the softness and tannins
of the other two varietals. Curiously, though it began with good
backbone, its power faded after two glasses.  
 A 2008 Barbera d’Alba from Stefano Farina in Italy’s
Piedmont showed how good this workhorse grape can be when
handled carefully, even this young. The ripe fruit, lovely
fragrance and peppery undertone make it excellent with red meats
like lamb or veal.  
 Mas du Fadan Les Fees 2007, from the Cotes du Ventoux in
the southern Rhone region, had a characteristic purple color and
big rustic smell, which partially derives from its not being
filtered. It’s a bawdy beauty of a red wine, made for barbecued
ribs on the grill and corn-on-the-cob.  
 Not every wine I tasted was as good as these -- a Girard
Sauvignon Blanc 2009 from Napa Valley was pale to the eye and
palate, and a 2007 Lagone Aia Vecchia from Tuscany was all
tannin and no taste. But for a dozen wines chosen more or less
at random, I found a level of quality that puts much more
expensive wines into focus.  
 Is a $50 bottle really that much better than a $12 bottle?
The answer is not quite so easy as it once seemed.  
 ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The exterior of Zachys wine and liquor store in Scarsdale, NY. Zachys opened in 1944 and is considered one of the best wine sellers in the U.S. Photographer: John Mariani/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Wines in Zachys wine and liquor store, Scarsdale, NY. The store increasingly fills its sale bins with $10 and $12 bottles. Photographer: John Mariani/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Wines for sale at Zachys wine store in Scarsdale, NY. Increasingly, good wines are available at $12 per bottle. Photographer: John Mariani/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
