-- Foreclosures, Floating-Rate Debt Will Weigh on State Housing, Moody's Says
-- Martin Z. Braun
-- 2010-07-12T22:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/foreclosures-floating-rate-debt-will-weigh-on-state-housing-moody-s-says.html

          
          
             Foreclosures , unemployment and the
amount of  floating-rated debt  are among the most critical
factors in determining credit ratings for state-housing finance
agencies, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report.  
 The report, published today, is the first of three grading
“roadmaps” for U.S. municipal bond issuers. Housing agencies
still face challenges even though the U.S. Treasury implemented
two programs last year allowing them to offer mortgages at rates
competitive with private loans and lower the cost of supporting
floating-rate bonds, the report said. Moody’s is maintaining a
“negative” outlook on the area.  
 “This year we’re much more concerned about the loan
performance of the state HFA single-family loans because we’ve
seen an increase in delinquencies,” said  Florence Zeman , a
senior vice president at Moody’s who wrote the report, in an
interview today. “We’re a lot more concerned about the asset
side, the loans, than the liability side.”  
 Moody’s expects the loan portfolios to deteriorate further
in the next 12 to 18 months as U.S.  unemployment , currently at
9.5 percent, stays elevated and home-price declines persist. The
rating company, which ranks $55 billion of state-housing agency
single-family mortgage bonds, expects unemployment to peak at
10.18 percent.  
 The weighted average of such loans in foreclosure rose to
1.87 percent as of Dec. 31, from 1.12 percent the previous year.
Loans delinquent more than 90 days measured 2.92 percent,
Moody’s said in the report.  
 Bond Insurance  
 Housing agencies will also be dogged by problems related to
floating-rate debt. Many borrowers who converted their
adjustable-rate bonds to fixed-rate using derivatives known as
interest-rate swaps have had to pay banks billions of dollars to
terminate the agreements when bond insurers guaranteeing the
debt lost their top credit ratings.  
 Agencies that maintain their floating-rate bond portfolios
are also having to pay more to banks for acting as a buyer of
last resort in the event the securities can’t be resold to
investors, Moody’s said.  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac,  which have
provided temporary credit lines to the state agencies, are
raising their fees 0.25 percentage point, Zeman said.  
 “Liquidity fees in general have not gone down sufficiently
to make other commercial alternatives advantageous,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        