-- U.K.'s Finance Regulator Calls for Ban on `Self-Certification' Mortgages
-- Nandini Sukumar
-- 2010-07-13T16:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/fsa-urges-a-2011-ban-on-self-certification-mortgages-to-cut-risky-lending.html

          
          
             The Financial Services Authority
plans to ban self-certification mortgages as the regulator moves
to crack down on risky lending.  
 The FSA found that 46 percent of households in the U.K. had
either no money left or a shortfall after mortgage payments and
living costs were deducted, the FSA said  in a report . The
regulator, which published a consultation paper on the 1.2
trillion-pound mortgage market, may issue final rules next year.  
 Self-certification loans don’t require consumers to
validate their income. By 2007, customers’ incomes weren’t
checked in 45 percent of new mortgages in the U.K., the
regulator said in October as it called for a ban on such home
loans as part of its crackdown on risky credit.  
 “We are determined to protect vulnerable consumers by
making sure that everyone who takes on a mortgage can afford to
pay it back,” said Lesley Titcomb, the FSA director responsible
for the mortgage market. “We need to build a strong new
framework to protect mortgage customers and to ensure that the
problems we have seen in the past do not happen again.”  
 The London-based regulator also called for imposing
mortgage affordability tests and making lenders “ultimately
responsible for assessing a consumer’s ability to pay.”  
 Similar FSA proposals from October were open for comment
until January and the watchdog is incorporating the feedback.  
 Turner Speech  
 The FSA decided against banning mortgages with high loan-
to-incomes and loan-to-values ratios because there wasn’t enough
of a correlation with losses, FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said in
a speech today to the British Bankers’ Association.  
 “If the correlation had turned out to be stronger, we
believe ratio-based limits could have been appropriate,” Turner
said.  
 The Council of Mortgage Lenders today said the FSA’s
proposals ran the risk “that the gain will not match the pain
in the short term.”  
 “There will always be a regulatory trade-off between
protecting consumers from over-borrowing, and increasing the
barriers to home-ownership,”  Michael Coogan , the group’s
director general, said in a statement. The mortgage market has
already corrected, “to a degree that the main consumer concern
right now is about access to finance, not about risky lending.”  
 The FSA has signaled it will focus further on the property
market and last week said a key focus for its stepped up
enforcement efforts will be stamping out mortgage fraud. The
regulator plans to visit mortgage lenders to review their
financial controls.  
 Requiring income verification in every case will also cut
down fraud in the mortgage market, Turner said.  
 “It does amount to a major shift in our willingness to
intervene in the free market relationships through which
borrowers and lenders would otherwise make their own free
choices about appropriateness, risk and return,” Turner said.
“We could have gone further, but decided not to.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        