-- China's Comac Targets New Jet Controls With GE Venture Contract
-- Rachel Layne
-- 2010-07-12T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/general-electric-avic-venture-wins-avionics-order-for-china-s-c919-plane.html

          
          
             China’s first narrow-body jet may
take a technological leap with a contract awarded to a joint
venture between  General Electric Co.  and state-owned  Aviation
Industry Corp.  to help design a new way to control the plane.  
 The deal announced yesterday with China’s Commercial
Aircraft Corp. also marks the first foray into the integration
and supply of such control equipment by GE Aviation Systems,
part of the world’s biggest jet-engine maker, and AVIC.  
 GE and AVIC targeted the 150-seat C919 when they unveiled
their 50-50 avionics venture in November. They plan to compete
with suppliers such as  Honeywell International Inc. ,  United
Technologies Corp.  and  Rockwell Collins Inc.  by using so-called
open-architecture software that isn’t tied to one manufacturer.  
 “One of the benefits of this system is that you can
replace dozens of traditional stand-alone computers with less
weight, better reliability, lower complexity,” said  Lorraine Bolsinger , who runs GE Aviation Systems, in a telephone
interview ahead of next week’s Farnborough Air Show near London.  
 Comac, as the Chinese planemaker is known, is promoting the
C919 as a rival to  Boeing Co. ’s bestselling 737 and  Airbus SAS ’s
A320. The C919 is due to enter service in 2016, and Comac
predicts having 2,300 of the single-aisle planes in operation
over the next two decades.  
 For GE, the venture means a chance to take advantage of
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt ’s $4.8 billion purchase
of Smiths Group Plc’s aviation unit in 2007. The acquisition
added electronics to the engine business at Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE.  
 ‘Big Risk’  
 “Given GE and Smiths’ lack of expertise with a project
like this, it’s a very big risk, especially for the Chinese,”
said  Richard Aboulafia , an analyst at Fairfax, Virginia-based
Teal Group.  
 GE’s entry into the avionics market may take business from
suppliers such as Honeywell, Rockwell Collins and Thales SA,
said  Michel Merluzeau , an aviation analyst at G2 Solutions in
Kirkland, Washington.  
 “This is a huge deal, perhaps one of those events that has
the potential to redefine the avionics market once every 15 to
20 years,” Merluzeau said in an e-mail.  
 GE Aviation supplies the core computing system on Boeing’s
787 jumbo jet. In looking for a partner to begin selling open-
source systems, GE Aviation saw AVIC as a “very natural”
choice, Bolsinger said.  
 Yesterday’s contract announcement came a week before
planemakers and parts manufacturers gather in Farnborough for
the industry’s biggest showcase for new products. Many of the
companies are rushing to court business in China as travel
demand rises in the world’s most-populous country.  
 Growth Market  
 “China is the world’s fastest-growing aviation market and
we need to ensure GE and the United States are part of this
growth,”  John Rice , a GE vice chairman who oversees divisions
including GE Aviation, said in a statement announcing the C919
contract.  
 AVIC Vice President  Zhang Xinguo  said the venture with GE
envisions adding customers in the U.S. and elsewhere.  
 The C919, which will join the narrow-body Boeing and Airbus
jets that are the workhorses of airline fleets worldwide, is
already drawing U.S.-based manufacturers. Honeywell said last
week it won a contract valued at more than $3 billion to supply
brakes and other parts for the plane.  
 Rockwell Collins said yesterday it signed a letter of
intent to provide communications and navigation systems through
a venture with China Electronics Technology Avionics Co., while
 Eaton Corp.  and Comac’s Shanghai Aircraft Manufacturing Co. said
they formed a venture for fuel- and hydraulic-system parts.  
 GE fell 2 cents to $14.93 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . The shares have dropped 1.3 percent
this year, compared with a 2 percent decline for the Dow Jones
Industrial Average.  
 GE said the contract will support jobs in the U.S., China
and the U.K. About $6 billion of GE’s revenue last year came
from China, Immelt said last week. Sales totaled $157 billion.
Sales in China should rise by at least 10 percent this year,
Immelt reiterated last week.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
