-- German Investor Confidence May Drop to 15-Month Low as Stress Tests Loom
-- Simon Berberich
-- 2010-07-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/german-investor-confidence-may-drop-to-15-month-low-as-stress-tests-loom.html

          
          
             German  investor  confidence probably
declined for a third month in July as Europe’s debt crisis
threatens to cripple economic growth and banks undergo stress
tests to prove their durability.  
 The  ZEW Center for European Economic Research  will today
say its index of investor and analyst expectations fell to a 15-
month low of 25.3 from 28.7 in June, according to the median of
34 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey . ZEW releases the
report, which aims to predict developments six months ahead, at
11 a.m. in Mannheim.  
 Governments across the 16-nation euro region are cutting
spending to rein in excessive budget deficits, threatening to
undermine the economic recovery. At the same time, regulators
are carrying out stress tests on 91 lenders aimed at reassuring
investors that banks have enough capital to withstand shocks.  
 “Investors aren’t sure the tests will be credible and
tough enough and whether governments are prepared to provide
capital if banks can’t raise it in the market,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macroeconomic research at ABN Amro NV in
Amsterdam. On the other hand, “the stress tests could be the
final element which really puts us on the road to easing
financial-system stress,” he said.  
 The 54-member Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index , which slumped 14 percent in the second quarter, has
jumped 11 percent this month. Germany’s benchmark  DAX  share
index gained 4 percent last week.  
 Raised Forecasts  
 The Bundesbank on June 11 raised its growth forecasts,
predicting expansion in Europe’s largest economy of 1.9 percent
this year and 1.4 percent in 2011, up from 1.6 percent and 1.2
percent respectively.  Exports , which accounted for 41 percent of
gross domestic product last year, will be one of the “main
driving forces,” the central bank said.  
 Executives from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ,  Volkswagen
AG ’s Audi unit and  Siemens AG  credit the euro’s 17 percent
decline against the dollar since November for boosting
competitiveness and making revenue earned overseas worth more
when they bring it home.  
 Volkswagen’s sales in China surged 46 percent in the first
half of the year after the company introduced new models to
attract consumers in the world’s largest vehicle market. BMW
more than doubled sales in the Asian country in the six months
through June.  
 Stress Tests  
 “The current strong dynamic will not last,” said  Simon Junker , an economist at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG,
Germany’s second-largest bank. “Government austerity measures
will slow down the economic recovery.”  
 Budget cuts may hurt consumer confidence and spending and
curb demand for German goods in the euro area, its biggest
export market. Concern about the health of the banking sector
may also cloud the economic outlook.  
 A number of lenders will probably fail the stress tests
that are currently being conducted,  Guido Ravoet , secretary
general of the Brussels-based European Banking Federation, said
on July 9. Governments “must stand ready to assist these
banks” as they may struggle to tap markets for additional
capital, he said. The results of the tests are due to be
published on July 23.  
 “If the banks pass the stress tests easily, no one will
believe it,” said  Holger Sandte , chief economist at WestLB AG
in Dusseldorf. “If they don’t, nobody knows what is going to
happen.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Berberich  in Frankfurt at 
 sberberich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Secretary general of the Brussels-based European Banking Federation Guido Ravoet said that a number of lenders will probably fail the stress tests that are currently being conducted. Photographer: Alan Weller/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
