-- German Two-Year Note's Yield Falls From Two-Month High as Stocks Decline
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-12T11:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/german-two-year-bond-s-yield-declines-from-two-month-high-as-stocks-fall.html

          
          
             German two-year notes rose, pushing
yields down from the highest level in two months, as a decline
in stock markets underpinned demand for the relative safety of
government securities.  
 The yield on the 10-year bund also fell as regulators
examined 91 banks in the euro region to determine if they can
survive potential losses on sovereign-bond holdings.  The MSCI
World Index  of shares fell 0.3 percent.  
 “Stocks may have provided some support for bonds today,
although the market might trade in a narrow range ahead of the
earnings season,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “In the medium term, the
market will watch very closely the result of the stress tests
for banks. A lot of people are cautious, despite some talk of
optimism in the market that major banks will pass the test.”  
 The yield on the two-year note fell six basis points to
0.72 percent as of 12:05 p.m. in London, after reaching 0.81
percent last week, the highest level since May 4. The benchmark
10-year German bund advanced, with the yield dropping five basis
points to 2.58 percent. The 3 percent security maturing in July
2020 rose 0.45, or 4.5 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,258) face
amount, to 103.6.  
 Investors are buying European bank bonds this month on
speculation the stress tests will confirm lenders can withstand
a shrinking economy and a drop in the value of government bonds.
Finance ministers meeting today in Brussels will debate how much
of the tests’ details to disclose as investors await their
publication by the end of July.  
 Debt Sales  
 Further gains may be limited before government debt sales.
Germany, France, the Netherlands, Italy, Portugal and Spain will
be in the market to sell bonds this week.  
 The  extra yield  that investors demand for holding 10-year
Spanish bonds instead of German bunds rose to 211 basis points
from 206 basis points last week. The yield difference between
10-year Italian bonds and their German counterparts widened 5
basis points to 144 basis points.  
 Greece will sell 1.25 billion euros of 26-week bills
tomorrow, the first auction since the country accepted a
European Union-led bailout in May. The debt may be sold to local
banks at a rate close to 5 percent, the level the EU charged in
the rescue, according to  Padhraic Garvey , a fixed-income
strategist at ING Groep NV.  
 “There’s likely to be some moral suasion at work to
encourage domestic players to get involved,” said Garvey, who
is based in Amsterdam. “My guess is that the funding cost will
come closer to that of the rescue package at 5 percent than to
the current market rate, which is partly inflated by lack of
liquidity.”  
 Bund Futures  
 The 10-year bund futures contract expiring in September
advanced 0.4 percent to 129.38, the biggest one-day gain in
nearly three weeks.  
 The trading of German bond futures on Eurex was halted
temporarily due to “volatility interruption” in the 10-year
and 5-year bond futures earlier today as major orders were
pushed through, according to  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman at
Deutsche Boerse AG which partly owns Eurex.  
 European finance ministers are under pressure to disclose
more about the stress tests. Banks globally could lose as much
as $900 billion in a worst-case scenario where Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Portugal and Spain all have to restructure their debt,
Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates.  
 Moody’s Investors Service said June 11 that EU banks can
absorb losses on government and private debt in Greece,
Portugal, Spain and Ireland without having to raise funds.
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said before the
meeting that the tests will be an “important step” toward
easing investors’ concerns about the strength of banks.  
 German bonds have gained 6.6 percent this year,
outperforming U.S. Treasuries which has handed investors 5.5
percent during the same period, according to indexes compiled by
Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        