-- Gillard Touts Tax Break for Uniforms, Forges Climate Policy, Ahead of Poll
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-13T09:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/gillard-to-hold-cabinet-meeting-as-australian-election-speculation-builds.html

          
          
             Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  pledged to give tax rebates for school uniforms and
forge on a new climate change policy ahead of an election she
may call as early as this week.  
 “Education literally makes lives. It made mine,” Gillard,
48, told reporters in Canberra today as she announced a plan
that will cover 2.1 million children and cost the government
A$220 million ($191 million) if she is re-elected. “A school
uniform gives people a sense of self, a sense of discipline.”  
 Talk of an election in August has increased after Governor-
General  Quentin Bryce , who Gillard must ask to dissolve
parliament before an election, changed travel plans so she can
be ready for a visit from the prime minister this week.  
 The Cabinet is resisting the idea of promoting a carbon tax,
the Australian newspaper reported today, without citing anyone.
Gillard is seeking to craft a climate change policy to appease
voters who were disappointed former leader  Kevin Rudd  shelved
carbon-trading plans in April.  
 “I understand there are millions of Australians
disappointed that we have not yet been able to put a price on
carbon. I’m disappointed too,” Gillard said today. “There are
other steps we can take on climate change.”  
 Call to Enroll  
 A new climate policy would be the last of the three key
areas she has sought to address after taking her party’s
leadership. Since ousting Rudd last month, Gillard struck a deal
with  BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio Tinto Group  and Xstrata Plc to water
down a planned mining tax. She’s said she’ll also open a
regional center to process asylum seekers to curb the number of
refugees trying to reach Australia by boat.  
 Bryce’s decision to delay travel increased the chance of
the national election being held on Aug. 28, the Sydney Morning
Herald reported today after Gillard hinted that an election
announcement could be made within days. The governor-general
will be out of Australia from July 17 to 21, according to a
statement released by her office yesterday.  
 “Get yourself on the roll,” Gillard said today, urging
first time voters to enroll to vote before she sets a date. The
earliest date for a House of Representatives and upper house
Senate election is Aug. 7, according to the Electoral  Commission .  
 Treasurer  Wayne Swan  will release updated economic
forecasts tomorrow, including expected revenue from the mining
tax, the  Australian Broadcasting Corp.  reporting on its website
without saying where it got the information.  
 Poll Lead  
 While Gillard’s Labor party remains in an election-winning
position, her support has slipped, according to a Nielsen poll
published yesterday. Labor fell three percentage points to 52
percent, compared with a survey taken immediately after Gillard
replaced Rudd on June 24.  Tony Abbott ’s opposition Liberal-
National coalition rose three percentage points to 48 percent.  
 “This is a Government which Julia Gillard said had lost
its way,” Abbott told reporters in Queanbeyan today as he
opened a campaign office. “The Australian people know that
Labor parties, Labor Governments create the mess and it’s up to
the Coalition to fix it.”  
 One supporter Gillard can count on is former Labor Prime
Minister  Bob Hawke , who embraced the new prime minister at a
book launching yesterday.  
 “Rest assured Julia, anything you want me to do, I’ll be
there with bells on,” said Hawke, who served as Australian
prime minister from 1983 until 1991 before he was ousted by  Paul Keating , his former deputy.  
 “It’s business as usual whether it’s early or later on,”
 Jason Teh , who helps manage $2.6 billion at Investors Mutual Ltd.
in Sydney, said by phone today. “The market will only swing
based on major policy decisions that affects particular
companies and most recent one is the resource tax, but they’re
trying to bed that down.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Australia's Prime Minister Julia Gillard  
                       
                         
                           Ian Waldie/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Australia's Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks during a meeting in Sydney. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Australia's Prime Minister Julia Gillard speaks during a meeting in Sydney. Photographer: Ian Waldie/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
