-- Goldman Sachs, Citigroup Sued Over Subprime Loans
-- William McQuillen
-- 2010-07-13T01:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/goldman-sachs-citigroup-morgan-stanley-sued-over-fund-s-subprime-losses.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  Citigroup
Inc. ,  Morgan Stanley  and dozens more bank and brokerages were
sued by a Boston area-based fund seeking reimbursement for
losses related to subprime loans.  
 Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc ., founded by ex-
Goldman Sachs Group bankers  Martin Finegold  and  Robert Kramer ,
lost more than $1.2 billion as a result of the banks’ untrue
statements, according to a copy of the complaint filed July 9 in
state court in Massachusetts.  
 The banks sold securities backed by mortgages that came
from a “small group of now notorious subprime mortgage
originators,” used faulty appraisals, accepted misleading
information in loan applications, and violated their own
standards for underwriting, the firm said in the lawsuit. The
banks offered or sold $2.4 billion of residential mortgage-
backed securities using untrue statements, according to the
lawsuit.  
 “The Wall Street banks conducted inadequate due diligence
and failed to satisfy their own responsibilities,” Cambridge
Place said in the lawsuit.  
 The bundling of the riskiest type of  mortgages  into
securities played a role in turning the U.S. housing slump into
a global recession as foreclosures deflated bond values and
toppled Wall Street firms including Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  
 ‘Improper Lending’  
 The banks created an “environment of improper lending
practices,” keeping personnel on site at the mortgage lenders
to monitor the loan underwriting business, according to the
lawsuit.  
 The suit also names Bank of America Corp., Merrill Lynch &
Co., UBS AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays PLC, Credit Suisse
Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings PLC and dozens of
others.  
 Representatives from Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,
Barclays, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank
declined to comment on the lawsuit. Representatives from the
others couldn’t be reached after business hours.  
 Bank representatives who allegedly offered or sold
securities to Cambridge Place included  Scott Eichel , RBS
Securities Inc.’s co-head of its mortgage and asset backed
securities business, when he had been at Bear Stearns Cos., and
Greg Lippman, who helped create the market for betting against
subprime mortgage bonds in 2005 and then profited along with
hedge funds when home prices declined and defaults soared to
records two years later.  
 Eichel, Lippman  
 Eichel didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment after regular business hours. A voice message left for
Lippman after business hours wasn’t returned.  
 The filing wasn’t immediately available on the court’s
electronic docket and was provided by an attorney for Concord,
Massachusetts-based Cambridge Place Investment Management.  
 The case, according to the court records, is Cambridge
Place Investment Management Inc. v. Morgan Stanley, 10-2741,
Massachusetts Superior Court, Suffolk County (Boston).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
  bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        