-- Goldman Loses Control of Japanese Golf Club as Court Sides with Members
-- Kazu Hirano
-- 2010-07-12T03:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/goldman-sachs-loses-control-over-japan-s-nanso-golf-club-as-members-rebel.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  lost
management control of bankrupt Nanso Country Club outside Tokyo
after a court accepted a petition by members to remove
executives appointed by the Wall Street firm.  
 The Tokyo District Court on July 6 appointed attorney Yuzo
Miyama to take over management of  Nanso Country Club , Kunihiko
Nishimura, a lawyer representing members, said in an interview.
Miyama replaced  Shigeki Kiritani , a Goldman Sachs managing
director who was overseeing the club’s operations.  
 Goldman Sachs bought Nanso Country Club in November 2006
and took it into bankruptcy protection in January this year.
Members last month voted against a rehabilitation plan proposed
by the Wall Street firm, citing concerns that  Goldman Sachs 
would allow more visiting players onto the course, depressing
the value of memberships that cost about 1 million yen ($11,225).  
 “We wouldn’t be able to enjoy our club life as we did
before if Goldman allowed more visitors to play golf here,”
said Tomoo Onodera, 43, a Nanso Country member who lives in
Yokohama.  
 Hiroko Matsumoto , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs, declined to comment on the court decision or say how much
the company paid for the club.  
 Narita Encounter  
 It isn’t the first time Goldman Sachs, the most profitable
securities firm in Wall Street history, has found itself at odds
with members of golf courses it acquired. In March 2008, the
company won approval from creditors for a plan to rehabilitate
Narita Golf Club that was opposed by members. Nishimura, who was
a Narita member, led a legal team challenging Goldman Sachs’s
plan at the time.  
 Goldman Sachs mainly owns golf courses in Japan through its
 Accordia Golf Co.  affiliate, which the U.S. bank took public in
2006 and owns 45 percent of. Accordia, based in Tokyo, owns 130
golf courses in Japan.  
 Accordia  shares  have lost 55 percent since the company went
public in November 2006. The company’s  profit  rose 23 percent to
10.4 billion yen in the fiscal year ended March 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Nanso Country, located about an hour’s drive from Tokyo, is
a 12,590-yard (11,512-meter), 36-hole course with about 2,600
members. Goldman Sachs, which owns the club through its Bay Wind
2 Ltd. unit, listed 12.8 billion yen ($145 million) in
liabilities in the bankruptcy filing, according to Nishimura.
Member deposits accounted for 12.2 billion yen of the debts.  
 ‘Just Another Club’  
 Under a so-called revitalization plan dated April 22 and
filed with the Tokyo District Court, Nanso Country would borrow
from Goldman Sachs to repay debts. The club would repay about 14
percent of members’ deposits.  
 Some 1,025 club members and creditors out of 1,744 voted
against Goldman Sachs’s plan on June 23, according to Nishimura.  
 Goldman Sachs on June 23 won approval from members and
creditors at nearby  Newnansou Golf Club  to restructure that club,
said Takeshi Koibuchi, an attorney for Goldman. Nanso Country’s
members are mainly individuals, while Newnansou’s are corporate,
Nishimura said.  
 Nanso members filed a second bankruptcy protection request
on June 23, asking the Tokyo District Court to remove Goldman
Sachs’s managers and to cancel the bank’s claims as a
shareholder. Under the second petition, the club’s members
propose to give up their deposits in exchange for shares in
Nanso Country, said Nishimura.  
 “The members didn’t want Goldman Sachs to integrate Nanso
Country into its network, making it just another club in its
franchise,” said Nishimura, 63. “They are seeking to
rehabilitate their golf club by themselves.”  
 Membership Slump  
 Golf membership prices soared in Japan during the 1980s
bubble economy, then slumped as the country lurched from one
recession to the next. At least 800 golf clubs have gone
bankrupt since 1991, according to  Meiji Golf , which trades club
memberships in Tokyo.  
 Asking prices for Nanso Country Club memberships are 1
million yen to 1.2 million yen, while bids range from 350,000
yen to 400,000 yen, Meiji Golf estimates. The value peaked at 16
million yen, according to Sakura Kyodo Law Offices, Nishimura’s
firm.  
 Membership values at Accordia-owned courses have fallen
faster than the nationwide average, said Kazunari Tsutsumi,
executive director of Meiji Golf.  
 “Members feel squeezed as Accordia’s main aim is boosting
revenue as a listed company, not preserving exclusivity,” he
said.  
 The price of a membership at Narashino Country Club, a
former host of the Suntory Open tournament, slumped to 200,000
yen this year from about 2 million yen seven years ago,
according to Meiji Golf data. Accordia started operating the
club in November 2002.  
 SEC Case  
 “Membership prices at most Japanese courses fell after the
bubble economy burst, and we don’t think declines were only
because of Accordia,” Harue Marumo, a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an interview.  
 The U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission ’s April lawsuit
against Goldman Sachs over fraud tied to collateralized debt
obligations hardened some members’ resolve to fight the firm,
said Onodera. Goldman Sachs has denied wrongdoing.  
 “We don’t want to play golf under a company that is being
sued for fraud,” Onodera said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Takahiko Hyuga  in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Kazu Hirano  in Tokyo at 
 khirano1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        