-- Growing Pumpkins Beats Monster Slaying for Tencent's China Online Gamers
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-07-12T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/growing-pumpkins-beats-monster-slaying-for-tencent-s-china-online-gamers.html

          
          
             Tencent  Holdings Ltd. and  Shanda
Games Ltd. , China’s two biggest online game operators, are
pitching the joys of simplicity.  
 Sales of games that can be played with just a Web browser
and do not require specialized software are growing three times
faster than traditional multiplayer role-playing titles in China
because they appeal to a broader audience, said  Eric Wen , head
of Internet research at Mirae Asset Securities Co. in Hong Kong.  
 Tencent’s “QQ Farm,” in which players grow pumpkins and
radishes that can be sold or stolen, attracts 10 million users a
day in the world’s largest Internet market, according to Wen.
Tencent, Asia’s largest Internet company by market value, needs
to find new customers to help reverse an 18 percent drop in its
shares so far this year.  
 “Chinese online game companies need to diversify into
other genres so that they can reduce the impact from the slowing
growth in the market this year,” said  Don See , who covers
Chinese Internet companies as an analyst at Standard Chartered
Plc in Singapore. “One of the key genres is social networking
games.”  
 Wang Lei, a 22-year-old logistics management student in
Hebei province, is a fan of QQ Farm. He used to slay monsters
and goblins across the mazes of  NetEase.com Inc. ’s “Westward
Journey Online” for two hours a day. Under pressure from his
studies, he now tends his virtual farm instead.  
 Time to Play  
 “I don’t have much time to play,” said Wang.  
 Sales growth for Internet games in China will probably slow
to 29 percent in 2010 to 32.9 billion yuan ($4.9 billion) in
2010, according to Roth Capital Partners LLC. Shenzhen-based
Tencent, whose most popular title mimics Zynga Game Network
Inc.’s “FarmVille” on Facebook Inc., can market games to about
570 million users of its QQ instant instant-messaging service.  
 “Tencent has a community platform, where they can add
entertainment and content,” says  Sylvie Sejournet , a fund
manager at Pictet Asset Management in Geneva, which manages
about $120 billion in assets, including Tencent shares.
“Tencent may become like the Facebook of Asia.”  
 Tencent will seek to maintain a mix of games of a casual
nature and more intense role-playing ones, it said in an e-mail.
 Shanda  agreed to buy U.S.-based Mochi Media Inc., a move that
the Shanghai-based operator said would enable it to offer a
wider range of titles. Beijing-based NetEase will remain focused
on multiplayer role-playing titles because simpler games are
more difficult to generate sales from, spokeswoman  Li Jia  said.  
 ‘Farm’ Spinoffs  
 Shares of Tencent,  Shanda  and NetEase have fallen this year
amid concern over slowing growth. Tencent’s stock has dropped 18
percent in Hong Kong and Shanda’s ADRs have plunged 41 percent
on the Nasdaq. NetEase’s ADR’s have fallen 11 percent.  
 Tightening government regulations, shorter lifecycles for
games and higher wages may continue to weigh on growth,  Adam Krejcik , a Newport Beach, California-based  analyst  at Roth
Capital, wrote in a May 25 report.  
 The popularity of games such as “QQ Farm” and spinoffs
such as “QQ Ranch” may not suffice to keep China’s online
games industry from slowing because they usually generate lower
average customer spending than role-playing titles, said Zhao
Xufeng, an analyst at research firm  iResearch  in Shanghai.  
 Increased government regulations of online games are also
affecting the growth of the market, said Pictet’s Sejournet.  
 Tightening Regulations  
 “The regulatory environment is getting a little bit
tighter, and there’s some competition from alternative
entertainment platforms,” said Sejournet, whose firm cut its
stake in Chinese Internet game companies including  Tencent 
during March. “The online game industry in China is a little
bit under pressure.”  
 China will ban companies that offer platforms for
transactions with virtual currency used in online games from
providing services to minors, and players will be required to
show identity documents when they subscribe for games, according
to new rules posted by the Ministry of Culture on June 22.  
 In February, trials for parents to monitor the online game
activities of their children were introduced, after the
regulator last year ordered the stoppage of some games as part
of a crackdown on “vulgar” and violent content.  
 Still, analysts including Mirae’s Wen expect revenue growth
from Web browser games to continue outpacing the industry as
Chinese switch from complex games to simpler ones for
entertainment.  
 “They are too expensive and take much time,” said Sang
Yakun, 23-year-old hotel manager in an Internet cafe in Beijing.
“I don’t stick to one online game. I change from one to another
frequently.”  
 -- Pavel Alpeyev ,  Ying Diao . Editors:  Young-Sam Cho ,  Bret Okeson   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Customers at an internet cafe play online games in Beijing. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
