-- Sukuk Sales May Narrow Gulf Yield Gap With Higher Ratings: Islamic Finance
-- Dana El Baltaji
-- 2010-07-12T03:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/gulf-sukuk-yield-premium-to-narrow-on-big-name-issuance-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             The yield premium that Persian Gulf
borrowers pay on sukuk compared to the rest of the Islamic
finance industry may narrow as companies with higher credit
ratings plan at least $1.75 billion of sales.  
 Islamic Development Bank, the Jeddah, Saudi Arabia
financial group with Aaa ratings from Moody’s Investors Service,
is planning a $1 billion sale of bonds based on the exchange of
assets rather than interest. Doha-based  Qatar Islamic Bank , the
state’s biggest Shariah-compliant lender, plans to sell as much
as $750 million, Chief Executive Officer Salah Mohammed Jaidah
said in May. The bank is ranked A by Fitch Ratings.  
 Those sales may improve investor sentiment toward Persian
Gulf borrowers after Dubai World, whose unit Nakheel PJSC is
building palm-shaped islands off Dubai’s coast, reached an
agreement with its main creditor group in May to restructure
$23.5 billion of liabilities. The  extra  yield investors demand
for the region’s securities compared with the broader Islamic
debt market widened more than 100 basis points, or 1 percentage
point, in the past eight months to 119 on July 9, according to
HSBC Holdings Plc Islamic indexes.  
 “Issuance in the Middle East by sovereigns and big-name
companies should help tighten the spread,” Nida Raza, senior
vice president of capital markets at Unicorn Investment Bank BSC,
the ninth-largest underwriter of Islamic bonds based on data
compiled by Bloomberg, said in a telephone interview on July 5
in Manama.  
 Dubai sovereign sukuk, which aren’t rated by Moody’s, Dubai
World, ranked Ba1, and Dubai Sukuk Centre, at B3, account for 24
percent of the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index.  
 New Issuance  
 The average yield on sukuk sold by Gulf borrowers rose 154
basis points to 7.29 percent since Nov. 18, according to the
 HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk Index.  The similar yield
on the  HSBC dollar sukuk index , made up of Islamic notes from
Saudi Arabia to Indonesia, widened 60 basis points in the same
period to 6.10 percent.  
 The yield gap between the Dubai Department of Finance’s
6.396 percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 and Malaysia’s
3.928 percent Islamic note due June 2015 has widened 30 basis
points to 410 since May 28, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Dubai’s notes yielded 7.51 percent on July 9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Wider Spread  
 The yield on the Malaysian note fell 17 basis points last
week to 3.40 percent, according to prices from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. The yield on Indonesia’s dollar-denominated
sukuk due 2014 declined 25 basis points to 3.78 percent.  
 “Middle Eastern credits are priced wider because of the
perceived political risks, a less developed legal framework, and
the limited pool of liquidity in the Middle East compared with
other locations,”  Mohammed Dawood , director of debt capital
markets at HSBC in Dubai, said in an interview July 6.
“Companies with similar ratings in the Middle East and Asia
will be priced differently.”  
 Investors shunned Islamic bonds issued by developers in the
Gulf region during a property-market slump and favored debt sold
by Asian governments. Real-estate prices have dropped 50 percent
in the United Arab Emirates from their peak in August 2008,
according to estimates from Colliers International.  
 New sales in the Gulf dropped 13 percent to $2.47 billion
in 2010 and accounted for 38 percent of the total $6.59 billion
raised through Islamic bonds, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The yield gap between Dubai’s Islamic bonds with Malaysia’s
sukuk has narrowed from a record 426 basis points on July 1.
Dubai World, one of the U.A.E.’s three biggest state-owned
business groups, said on May 20 it reached an agreement with its
main creditor group to restructure $23.5 billion of loans.  
 The planned issues by Islamic Development Bank and Qatar
Islamic Bank “are the sorts of premier credit that need to open
the market,” Unicorn’s Raza said. “It needs to be something
that no one can keep their hands off of. AAA and AA type of
credit will bring confidence back.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Qatar Islamic Bank CEO Salah Mohammed Jaidah speaks at the 6th World Islamic Economic Forum in Kuala Lumpur. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
