-- Linamar's Hasenfratz Says Canada Economic Stimulus Plan Should End Slowly
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-12T16:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/linamar-s-hasenfratz-says-canada-economic-stimulus-plan-should-end-slowly.html

          
          
             Canadian policy makers should be
careful in removing stimulus to ensure the economic  recovery 
lasts and to encourage private investment,  Linamar Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Linda Hasenfratz  said.  
 “I don’t think you want to do anything rapidly, you want
to be cautious,” Hasenfratz said in a telephone interview.
“What we went through last year wasn’t a typical recession, it
was more significant.”  
 Canada’s economy has recovered faster than other
industrialized countries in part because the banking system was
stronger, she said. The Guelph, Ontario-based auto parts maker
is benefitting from a rebound in North American vehicle
production and plans to hire as many as 1,300 workers in the
Canadian province by the end of next year, Hasenfratz said.  
 Canada’s second-largest auto parts maker is planning to
boost employment because it has C$2 billion ($1.94 billion) in
business “under launch,” Hasenfratz said. “Even if there is
another dip down in production, the new work that we have coming
online should really help to offset that.”  
 Many executives in Canada are hesitant to spend in case
there is another slowdown, said Hasenfratz, 44. “What nobody
wants to do is overspend, overreact to a recovering economy and
then find ourselves in another significant dip sitting on a huge
amount of debt or not enough cash.”  
 Emergency Measures Ending  
 Policy makers have been preparing Canadians for the end of
emergency economic measures. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  has
said government stimulus spending will end early next year. Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  was the first Group of Seven
central banker to raise  interest rates  since a global recession
last year, to 0.5 percent from a record low 0.25 percent.
Investors expect a further increase on July 20, based on
overnight index swaps rates.  
 Carney said last month that future rate increases will
depend on the strength of domestic demand weighed against an
uneven global recovery. Since then, Canada reported that
 employment  gained by 93,200 in June, bringing the jobless rate
down to 7.9 percent.  
 While the signs of domestic strength are there, Linamar
isn’t able to raise prices, said Hasenfratz, the daughter of
Chairman  Frank Hasenfratz , who founded the company more than 40
years ago.  
 “Most suppliers are in a pretty good position given the
fact that the actual production levels are quite a bit higher
than their new breakeven levels,” she said. “This is a world
of price decreases, not price increases.”  
 Linamar  rose  6 cents to C$17.72 at 12:25 p.m. in trading on
the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has gained 88 percent in
the past 12 months, including dividends.  
 “It was coming from an unrealistically low level of
valuation, so that doesn’t mean that the stock today is
necessarily at a price that I think is overvalued or at a
lucrative place in terms of raising equity,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        