-- India's Industrial Production Growth Slows to 11.5%, Rate Pressure Stays
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-12T07:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/india-may-industrial-output-rises-11-5-missing-estimates-rupee-weakens.html

          
          
             India’s  industrial production 
expanded less than analysts estimated, complicating the central
bank’s efforts to raise borrowing costs to curb inflation.  
 Stocks pared gains, the rupee weakened and bonds advanced
after  output  at factories, utilities and mines rose 11.5 percent
in May from a year earlier, slower than the 16.2 percent median
forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Production
jumped a revised 16.5 percent in April, the statistics office
said in a statement in New Delhi today.  
 Governor Duvvuri Subbarao faces the challenge of supporting
growth while containing inflation, which may have stayed above
10 percent for a second straight month in June. He may boost
rates by a quarter-point at the bank’s July 27 meeting for the
fourth time since mid-March in a bid to slow Asia’s fastest
inflation, said  Shubhada Rao , an economist at Yes Bank Ltd.  
 “For the Reserve Bank of India, the main focus remains on
the inflation outlook,” said  Brian Jackson , an emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. “The
wholesale-price data later this week will play a bigger role in
deciding whether we see another rate hike at the next meeting.”  
 Yields Decline  
 India’s 10-year bonds gained, pushing yields down by five
basis points to 7.60 percent as of 1 p.m. in Mumbai. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive Index  rose 0.4 percent while the
rupee fell 0.2 percent to 46.75 against the dollar.  
 India’s benchmark wholesale-price  inflation rate  may rise
to 10.8 percent in June from 10.2 percent in May, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The government is due
to unveil the inflation data on July 14.  
 Consumer prices paid by industrial and farm workers in
India are increasing at a pace of almost 14 percent, the most
among 17 countries tracked by Bloomberg, including China and
South Korea, on demand for motorcycles, houses and phones.  
 “We don’t need to be alarmed by this production number as
demand remains pretty strong,” said the Mumbai-based  Rao  at  Yes
Bank . “The central bank is unlikely to look at this number as a
concern and will continue to focus on inflation, which will hold
the key for monetary policy action.”  
 Consumer Demand  
 Wireless telecommunication companies including Bharti
Airtel Ltd. added 16.3 million customers in May, about 3 percent
more than the previous month.  
 Cement companies such as  ACC Ltd ., India’s biggest, sold
about a tenth more in June from a year earlier, while sales at
motorcycle maker, Hero Honda Motors Ltd., rose 16.6 percent.  
 The demand is prompting companies to expand their
production capacities.  ACC  said in May it plans to spend 15
billion rupees ($321 million) to set up a factory of 3 million
metric tons. Hero Honda plans to build a fourth factory to add
to its 5 million-unit output capability.  
 “Capacity utilization is closer to full and the risk of
pass-through of higher wholesale prices into underlying consumer
prices is high,” Chetan Ahya, an economist at Morgan Stanley in
Singapore, said before the report. “There is a need to move
rates faster toward neutral levels.”  
 Factory output slowed in May after  manufacturing  rose 12.3
from a year earlier, compared with a 17.9 percent gain in April,
today’s report showed. Mining climbed 8.7 percent, while
electricity advanced 6.4 percent.  
 ‘Robust’ Growth  
 Industrial production rose 14 percent in the two months
through May from a year earlier, compared with a 1.6 percent
gain in the same period in 2009, according to today’s report.  
 “The overall growth still continues to be robust,”  Ashok Chawla , the top bureaucrat in the finance ministry, told
reporters in New Delhi. “Nobody should expect industry to
continue to grow at an abnormally high rate” all the time.  
 Subbarao, in an unscheduled announcement on July 2,
increased the  reverse repurchase  and repurchase rates for the
third time since mid-March by a quarter point to 4 percent and
5.5 percent, saying “demand-side pressures are evident.”  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is under
pressure to tame price gains from the opposition, led by the
Bharatiya Janata Party, which on July 5 organized a nationwide
strike. Flights were canceled, companies shut offices and taxis
stayed off the roads in major Indian cities that day.  
 India needs a contingency plan by September if inflation
doesn’t ease, former central bank Governor  Bimal Jalan  said in
an interview on July 6.  
 “I am not in favor of curbing any growth,” Jalan said.
“But, if you do something to control inflation, which affects
not the supply side but the demand side, so be it.”  
 The International Monetary Fund last week raised its 2010
economic growth forecast for India to 9.4 percent from the 8.8
percent estimated in April.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor Subbarao may boost rates by a quarter-point at the bank’s July 27 meeting following an unscheduled increase on July 2. Photographer: Adeel Halim/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Bajaj Auto Ltd. employees assemble Pulsar motorcycles on the assembly line at the company's factory in Pune, India. Photographer: Kuni Takahashi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
