-- Industrial Production for May; June Wholesale-Price Data: India Week Ahead
-- Kartik Goyal
-- 2010-07-12T03:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/industrial-production-for-may-june-wholesale-price-data-india-week-ahead.html

          
          
             A government report today may show
growth in India’s  industrial production  held near a record pace
in May, suggesting an economic rebound is likely to prompt the
central bank to raise rates for the fourth time this year.  
 The Central Statistical Organisation may say factory output
rose 16.2 percent, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists. The report is due at 11
a.m. in New Delhi. Production surged 17.6 percent in April,
approaching December’s 17.7 percent pace, which was the quickest
since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 1994.  
 Central Bank Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  increased borrowing
costs in an unscheduled move on July 2 by a quarter-percentage
point, saying economic recovery is gaining momentum and
inflation is becoming “generalized” on widening consumer
demand. Reserve Bank of India officials will meet next at a
scheduled policy review in Mumbai on July 27.  
 The central bank this month raised the  reverse-repurchase 
and  repurchase  rates to 4 percent and 5.5 percent, and added it
will “take further action as warranted.”  
 A separate Bloomberg survey showed wholesale prices may
have increased 10.9 percent last month, near the fastest pace in
17 months. The commerce ministry will unveil the data for June
on July 14 at noon.  
 The government this week plans to raise 130 billion rupees
($2.8 billion) from the sale of bonds at an auction set for July
16. The debt sales are part of India’s plan to raise 2.87
trillion rupees in the six months to Sept. 30.  
 Stocks, Bonds  
 The benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange  Sensitive Index  rose to
a three-week high as Bharti Airtel Ltd. and other phone
operators jumped after Credit Suisse Group AG raised their stock
ratings. The index gained 2.1 percent last week.  
 The rupee rose the most in two weeks on July 9 on optimism
that rising interest rates in Asia’s developing economies will
spur the flow of funds from the U.S. and Europe. The Indian
currency strengthened 0.3 percent last week to 46.665 a dollar.  
 Ten-year government bonds  completed a weekly loss on
concern the central bank will increase borrowing costs for the
second time this month. Concerns that  inflation  will accelerate
also pushed yields higher.  
 The yield on the 7.80 percent note due May 2020 rose nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, last week to 7.65
percent, according to the central bank’s trading system.  

 
Event                                               Date
May Industrial Output Data                        July 12
June inflation data                               July 14
India Government Bond Auction                     July 16
 
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        