-- Andres Iniesta's `Small Contribution' Ends Long World Cup Wait for Spain
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-12T01:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/iniesta-s-small-contribution-of-winning-goal-ends-spain-s-world-cup-wait.html

          
          
             Andres Iniesta  emerged from under
the bodies of his jubilant teammates as the scorer of the
latest-ever World Cup winning goal. The Barcelona midfielder
says he didn’t do anything special.  
 “I’ve made a small contribution in a very tough game,”
Iniesta told reporters after his extra time goal sealed a 1-0
victory over the Netherlands at Johannesburg’s Soccer City
stadium yesterday to give Spain its first world title.  
 To his teammates, the diminutive 26-year-old midfielder was
the star of a match that will be remembered more for its
brutality than for its beauty. By the end of 120 minutes play,
English referee  Howard Webb  had brandished 14 yellow cards.
That’s more than in any previous final during the World Cup’s
80-year history.  
 “You are the best,” screamed defender  Carles Puyol  as he
burst into a room where Iniesta, voted man of the match for
third time in the tournament, was holding a press conference.
Central defensive partner  Gerard Pique  and midfielder Cesc
Fabregas followed, clutching beer, to praise the goal scorer.  
 With the  World Cup final  four minutes away from being
decided by penalties for the second successive tournament,
Iniesta ended the Dutch resistance with a half-volley past
 Maarten Stekelenburg  off substitute Fabregas’s pass.  
 Memories  
 The goal brought celebrations. Iniesta appeared from under
a mob of Spain players to reveal a T-shirt commemorating Daniel
Jarque, a former teammate who died of a heart attack last year.  
 “I wanted to carry Dani with me,” Iniesta said. “We
wanted to pay tribute to him in the world of football, and this
was the best opportunity to do so.”  
 By the end of the match Iniesta had been brought to the
ground eight times, making him the most-fouled player on the
field. Five players were cautioned in the first half, four more
in the second half, and then another four in extra time,
including a second for  John Heitinga , which resulted in the
Dutch defender being sent off.  
 “There were all sorts of things happening on the pitch,”
Iniesta said.  
 The Netherlands would have been happy to have won the game
playing “ugly” soccer, coach  Bert van Marwijk  said on the eve
of the final. His team was bidding to go one better than its
predecessors of the 1970s, which lost two successive World Cup
finals.  
 Last night, Van Marwijk had to defend his approach after
the Netherlands accumulated nine of the 14 yellow cards.  
 Horrible Fouls  
 “Let me put it this way, it’s not our style to commit
horrible fouls,” he told reporters. “It’s not our kind of
football. It was a World Cup final and people were tense.”  
 Video replays showed Dutch midfielder  Nigel De Jong  kicking
Xabi Alonso’s chest midway through the first half, an offense
that would normally merit a straight red card. The Manchester
City midfielder received a caution.  
 “You have to go to the limit sometimes to win the game,”
De Jong said. “Sometimes you have to put a hard tackle in.
That’s part of football. If you don’t put those tackles in,
Spain will kill you.”  
 Spain’s play in the tournament was marked by a passing
style that has evolved over the past three years, coach Vicente
del Bosque said. According to statistician Opta Ltd., the 3,547
passes completed by his team during its seven matches at the
tournament are the most by any team at the World Cup since 1966.  
 “We have hugely talented players on this team,” said del
Bosque, who took charge of Spain following its European
Championship victory in June 2008.  
 Chances  
 The 59-year-old coach was thrown into the air by his team
as the players celebrated a victory that makes Spain the first
European winner of the World Cup on another continent.  
 Players including Arsenal midfielder Fabregas vaulted the
perimeter advertising boards and charged up to their families
seated among the 84,490 crowd.  
 “I had something inside telling me I would have my chance
today,” said Fabregas, whose opportunities in the tournament
had mostly been limited to substitute appearances. “I had it
and it went brilliantly.”  
 Amid the celebrations, Iniesta crumpled to his knees and
wept. He was helped to his feet by a trio of teammates. “It’s
something we have to remember and enjoy, and should feel very
proud of everyone in this squad,” said the match-winner.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at Soccer City in Johannesburg through the London
sports desk at   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Spain's midfielder Andrés Iniesta kisses his gold medal. Photographer: Gabriel Bouys/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
