-- International Criminal Court Charges Sudan's al-Bashir For a Second Time
-- Antony Sguazzin
-- 2010-07-12T16:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/international-criminal-court-charges-sudan-s-al-bashir-for-a-second-time.html

          
          
             The International Criminal Court 
issued a second arrest warrant against Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir  for  responsibility of genocide  in Sudan’s western
region of Darfur, the court said on its website today.  
 Al-Bashir was charged with three counts of genocide against
the Fur, Masalit and Zaghawa ethnic groups, the Hague-based
court said. The court had issued a warrant against Bashir on
March 4, 2009, for war crimes and crimes against humanity.  
 The three counts announced today include “genocide by
killing, genocide by causing serious bodily or mental harm and
genocide by deliberately inflicting on each target group
conditions of life calculated to bring about the group’s
physical destruction,” the court said.  
 Al-Bashir has ruled Sudan since coming to power in a
military coup in 1989 and won election in April in the country’s
first multiparty vote in 24 years. As many as 300,000 people
have died, mainly through illness and starvation, and more than
2.7 million have been displaced in Darfur since February 2003,
according to the United Nations. Sudan says that the death toll
is about 10,000.  
 The violence began when rebels seeking a larger role in
Sudan’s political life and a bigger slice of the country’s
expanding oil wealth attacked the government. The authorities in
Khartoum, the capital, responded by deploying army units and
state-backed Arab militias known as the Janjaweed.  
 Oil Producer  
 Sudan is sub-Saharan Africa’s third-largest producer of
crude oil, pumping about 490,000 barrels a day, according to the
 BP Statistical Review of World Energy . Most of the fields are in
Southern Sudan, which is scheduled to vote in January in a
referendum to decide whether to become an independent nation.  
 The criminal court was established under the 1998  Rome
Statute , a treaty signed by representatives of more than 100
states during a UN conference. Sudan, like the U.S., is not a
signatory to the statute.  
 Fathy Sheila, spokesman of Bashir’s National Congress
Party, did not answer calls seeking comment.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maram Mazen  in Khartoum via Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
 Antony Sguazzin  at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        