-- Iran Vows to Increase Stock of Enriched Uranium Sixfold by September 2011
-- Henry Meyer
-- 2010-07-12T07:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/iran-vows-to-increase-stock-of-enriched-uranium-sixfold-by-september-2011.html

          
          
             Iran said it can produce enough 20
percent-enriched uranium to power its Tehran research reactor,
which needs six times the country’s current stockpile, by
September next year.  
 “Iran has now produced 20 kilograms of nuclear fuel with
an enrichment level of 20 percent,”  Ali Akbar Salehi , head of
Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization, said in comments reported by
state-run  Press TV  late yesterday. “In view of making fuel
rods, we hope to deliver them by Shahrivar next year,” he said,
referring to the Iranian calendar month, which finishes in late
September 2011.  
 Iran said last month it would enrich its own fuel for the
medical reactor after Western powers rejected a deal to swap
1,200 kilograms of low-enriched uranium for the 120 kilograms of
20 percent-enriched fuel needed for the Tehran facility. Salehi
said on June 23 that Iran can produce 5 kilograms a month of 20
percent-enriched uranium.  
 The Persian Gulf nation has refused United Nations Security
Council demands to suspend uranium enrichment, saying the work
is necessary for civilian purposes such as power generation. The
UN Security Council on June 9 approved a fourth round of
sanctions aimed at halting Iran’s nuclear development, which the
U.S. and its allies say may be intended for a weapons program.  
 Under a proposed international deal brokered by Turkey and
Brazil in May, and rejected by the U.S. Iran had said it would
swap half of its stockpile of 3.5 percent-enriched uranium for
imported fuel to run the Tehran reactor, which produces medical
isotopes.  
 ‘Psychological Warfare’  
 The head of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency,  Leon Panetta , said last month that Iran has enough low-enriched
uranium for two atomic bombs. Iran dismissed his comments as
“psychological warfare.”  
 France and Argentina are the only countries with the
technology to make fuel for the type of reactor operating in
Tehran,  Paul Ingram , executive director of the London-based
British American Security Information Council, said in a June 23
phone interview. Iran’s timeline for a plant to produce its own
fuel is “rather optimistic,” he said.  
 A nuclear weapon could be made by enriching 150 to 200
kilograms of 20 percent uranium to a concentration of 80 to 90
percent, Ingram said. “Enriching to 20 percent is like going
about 80 percent of the way towards having military material,”
he said.  
 Enriching uranium to 90 percent from 20 percent accounts
for about half the time needed to get the raw heavy metal into
the concentrated form needed for a weapon, Federation of
American Scientists physicist  Ivan Oelrich  said in a May 19
note. Iran is “perfectly capable” of enriching to 90 percent,
he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Dubai at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        