-- Iraqi Parliamentary Session Postponed Due to Post-Vote Leadership Dispute
-- Kadhim Ajrash
-- 2010-07-12T13:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/iraqi-parliamentary-session-postponed-due-to-post-vote-leadership-dispute.html

          
          
             Iraqi political leaders agreed to
postpone a return to parliament scheduled for tomorrow after
failing to end a deadlock that’s hampering the formation of a
new government four months after elections.  
 “It is unreasonable to hold a parliamentary session
without an agreement on the three principal positions,” of
speaker, president and prime minister, acting Speaker Foad
Maasom said in a statement on the parliament’s  website  today.  
 Iraq’s political blocs have been competing for allies to
form a governing coalition following elections on March 7 that
failed to give any group a ruling majority in the 325-seat
assembly. Parliament has been in recess since convening June 14
for the first session after the vote, a meeting that lasted
about 15 minutes and wasn’t adjourned.  
 Ayad Allawi , a former premier whose Iraqiyah bloc was
backed by Sunni Muslim and secular voters, won the most seats in
the elections, securing 91 to the 89 garnered by Prime Minister
 Nuri al-Maliki ’s Shiite Muslim-led State of Law group. Both men
are vying to be named prime minister and form a cabinet.  
 Leaders and representatives of the political factions met
in Baghdad today to discuss the idea of delaying the resumption
of the parliamentary session, according to state-sponsored al-
Iraqiyah television. The broadcaster said lawmakers unanimously
voted to keep the session open for a further two weeks.  
 Constitutional Deadlines  
 Iraq’s constitution calls for lawmakers to elect a speaker
during the first session of parliament. Within 30 days of the
first session, a president must be elected by a two-thirds
majority. The president then has 15 days to task the leader of
the largest bloc, as prime-minister designate, with forming a
government.  
 Reidar Visser, an Iraq analyst at the Oslo-based Norwegian
Institute for International Affairs, said that because the first
session of parliament is still officially open, Iraqi leaders
haven’t broken any deadlines set out in the constitution for the
appointment of the country’s leaders.  
 “The 30-day timeline for electing the president is counted
from the end of the first meeting,” Visser said by e-mail
today. “Since the first meeting has not ended yet, the counting
process hasn’t really started.”  
 Iraq’s senior Shiite clergymen on July 9 signaled they’re
ready to intervene to help end the impasse and provide
assistance and advice to reach a solution if talks break down.  
 The maneuvering comes as the Obama administration is
scaling back the U.S. force in Iraq to 50,000 from 86,000 by the
end of August ahead of a full withdrawal next year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Caroline Alexander  in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        