-- Israeli Army Inquiry Finds Intelligence Mistakes Made Before Flotilla Raid
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-07-12T17:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/israeli-inquiry-says-intelligence-other-mistakes-made-in-raid-on-flotilla.html

          
          
             An Israeli military inquiry blamed
faulty planning, intelligence and decision-making by officers
for a deadly commando raid on aid ships trying to breach the
country’s blockade of the Gaza Strip.  
 “There were mistakes in various decisions made, including
at relatively senior ranks, that ended up in a result we didn’t
anticipate,” reserve Major General  Giora Eiland  said at a press
briefing in Tel Aviv. Most of the inquiry’s specific
recommendations are classified, said Eiland, who led the probe.  
 The report, which took five weeks to complete, said the
navy “relied excessively on a single course of action” and
underestimated the level of violence that the commandos would
face when they boarded the ships from helicopters, according to
an e-mailed army statement.  
 Israel has faced international condemnation for its May 31
raid on the flotilla of six ships sailing toward Gaza, including
the Mavi Marmara, where nine Turkish activists were killed.
Alongside the Eiland Commission, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  has appointed a three-person panel, with two
additional international observers, to examine whether Israel
complied with international law in establishing a sea blockade
of Gaza and raiding ships that tried to breach it.  
 The incident severely strained Israel’s political and
military relations with Turkey, once its closest ally in the
Middle East. Israel has rejected requests for an international
investigation into the incident, including calls from Turkey.  
 ‘Next Event’  
 Eiland said that since there may be more ships that try to
breach the Gaza blockade “some of the things we learned in this
event should be helpful in the next event.”  
 A Libyan vessel carrying humanitarian aid is expected to
reach the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip by noon on July 14,
Youssef Sawani, executive director of the Gaddafi International
Charity and Development Foundation, which is mounting the
operation, said today. The charity is headed by Saif al-Islam
Qaddafi, son of Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi.  
 Israeli soldiers were attacked with knives and metal clubs
and nine were wounded, including by gunfire, after people aboard
the Mavi Marmara managed to grab Israeli firearms, the army
said. Activists have said they threw the firearms into the sea
and that the Israelis instigated the violence.  
 Own Weapon  
 Lieutenant-General  Gabi Ashkenazi , Israel’s military chief
of staff, said “neither I nor the inquiry found that a major
failure occurred or that there was negligence, but definitely
following such an in-depth inquiry there are mistakes that must
be corrected in the future.” Ashkenazi’s comments were carried
in an e-mailed statement sent by the army spokesman’s office.  
 Israel has imposed restrictions on Gaza since the Islamic
Hamas movement, which won parliamentary elections in 2006,
ousted forces loyal to President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah group and
seized full control of the territory the next year. Hamas is
considered a terrorist organization by the U.S., the European
Union and Israel.  
 Israel has said it issued numerous warnings to the Gaza-
bound flotilla asking it to change course for the port of Ashdod
and unload there, before it seized the vessels.  
 The other five vessels, as well as a separate boat that
arrived June 5, were taken over without significant resistance.  
 ‘Non-Hostile Manner’  
 The Eiland Commission “emphasized the fact that as far as
is currently known, no country in the world holds the ability to
stop a vessel at sea in a non-hostile manner,” the army
statement said. “At the same time, the team determined that
alternative courses of action could have existed had the process
of preparation begun enough time in advance, and recommended to
accelerate the process of examining alternative methods.”  
 The blockade of Gaza is legal, according to Israel, because
it is in “a state of armed conflict” with Hamas. Some
countries, such as Turkey, dispute the legality of the blockade.
Legal scholars such as  Robin Churchill , a professor of
international law at the University of Dundee in Scotland, say
the legality turns on whether the conflict is a full-fledged war
and whether the military benefit is proportionate to civilian
suffering.  
 Palestinians, backed by the United Nations and human rights
groups, say the restrictions on food imports and construction
materials have created a humanitarian crisis. Israel loosened
its restrictions on the transport of goods by road into Gaza in
response to international criticism of the raid, though it
maintains a naval blockade of the area.  
 All Foods  
 Israel’s Cabinet agreed on June 20 to allow in all foods
and limit the shipment of construction materials. Israel said
building materials could be used to build rockets, bunkers or
bombs.  
 Israel launched a three-week military offensive in Gaza in
December 2008 that it said was meant to stop the firing of
rockets by Hamas and other Palestinian militants into its
territory. More than 1,000 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the conflict.  
 More than 400 rockets have been fired from Gaza into Israel
since the end of the 2008 military operation, killing one
foreign worker last March, the Israeli army said.  
 Israeli bombing and ground operations during the war
destroyed more than 3,000 homes, the United Nations said, and
Israel’s restrictions on construction materials have prevented
Palestinians from being able to rebuild.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “There were mistakes in various decisions made, including at relatively senior ranks, that ended up in a result we didn’t anticipate,” reserve Major General Giora Eiland said. Photographer: Jack Guez/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
