-- Italy Proposes Cut on Rates Paid for Solar Energy, Keeps Incentives Intact
-- Marc Roca
-- 2010-07-12T17:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/italy-proposes-cut-on-rates-paid-for-solar-energy-keeps-incentives-intact.html

          
          
                  July 12 (Bloomberg New Energy Finance) -- The Italian
government introduced legislation that would cut feed-in tariffs
paid for power from solar photovoltaic plants beginning in 2011.  
 The proposal, which must be approved by parliament,
maintained the terms in a draft bill circulated June 1 calling
for the tariff to decline by 6 percent every four months next
year and another 6 percent in the two years thereafter, the
Ministry of Economic Development said in a statement.  
 The decision leaves the rates Italian utilities pay for
solar power among the most attractive in Europe and may trigger
a rush by developers to build solar plants in Italy just as in
Spain and Germany in recent years, said  Francesco D’Avack , a
solar analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London.  
 “The Italian market risks entering a dangerous boom and
bust cycle,” D’Avack said. “All this could lead to
unsustainably fast growth and a belated reaction by the
government to keep costs in check. There are a couple of fat
years ahead for developers.”  
 The new law would also establish a 3-gigawatt cap in solar
capacity by the end of 2013 in addition to 200 megawatts for PV
projects integrated into buildings and 150 megawatts in
concentrated PV projects, which use mirrors to focus the sun’s
rays on solar panels.  
 The ministry reached an agreement on the final shape of the
law at a conference last week including representatives from the
state, regions and local authorities following several
postponements of the meeting since the beginning of this year.  
 Permission Process  
 “The main obstacle to even faster growth, namely a
byzantine and regional permitting process, has been removed
through simplified, national planning guidelines,” D’Avack
said.  
 Officials at the ministry were not available to comment.  
 The new solar energy bill, or Conto Energia, will come into
effect on Jan. 1 and substitute the 2007 version, which led to
about 1.13 gigawatts in PV capacity being installed by the end
of 2009, according to figures from grid regulator GSE. The
government aims for solar capacity to reach 8 gigawatts by 2020.  
 “The Conto Energia and the new guidelines for renewable
projects, long-awaited by sector’s players, provide a decisive
push to the government’s renewable energy strategy,” Stefano
Saglia, under-secretary for energy at the ministry, said in a
statement. “These measures boost innovation in a key sector for
growth and competitiveness of the country and allow the
harmonization and simplification of national and regional
procedures.”  
 Along with regions and local authorities, the ministry also
approved new administrative guidelines for projects in all
renewable energy sectors based on a single model for all the
country. The new guidelines will be sent within 90 days of the
text’s publication to regional and local authorities, which are
the entities that approve projects in the country.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Marc Roca  in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        