-- Ivanhoe Backs Shareholder Rights Plan After Rio Claims Breach of Contract
-- Jesse Riseborough
-- 2010-07-12T14:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/ivanhoe-backs-shareholder-rights-plan-after-rio-claims-breach-of-contract.html

          
          
             Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. , building a $4.6
billion copper and gold mine in Mongolia, affirmed its support
for a shareholders’ rights plan after largest holder  Rio Tinto
Group  said the proposal violated an earlier accord.  
 Ivanhoe “firmly believes that the shareholders’ rights
plan, adopted in April this year, is not in breach of any of Rio
Tinto’s existing contractual rights,” David Huberman,
independent director at the Vancouver-based company, said today
in a statement.  
 Rio, owner of 29.6 percent of Ivanhoe and the world’s
third-largest mining company, said July 9 that the plan
contravened its rights under a 2006 private-placement accord and
would be referred to arbitration. The two companies are building
the Oyu Tolgoi mine in Mongolia, which Rio has described as the
world’s largest untapped copper and gold resource, due to start
output in 2013.  
 “The Ivanhoe Mines rights plan is intended to protect all
shareholders from coercive or creeping takeovers, while allowing
takeover bids that are made to all shareholders and that satisfy
the conditions of permitted bids,” the Canadian company said.  
 The plan restricts stockholders and third parties, acting
alone or jointly, “from acquiring additional Ivanhoe shares in
the market beyond the amounts provided for in existing
contractual arrangements unless an offer is made to all
shareholders,” Ivanhoe said.  
 Rio Falls  
  Rio  declined as much as 2.2 percent to 3,102.5 pence in
London trading, and was at 3,150 pence as of 2:59 p.m. local
time.  Ivanhoe  rose 3.9 percent to C$15.09 in Toronto.  
 Rio, based in London, said last week that it had held talks
with its largest shareholder,  Aluminum Corp. of China , regarding
Oyu Tolgoi. China’s biggest producer of aluminum indicated an
interest in acquiring a minority stake in Ivanhoe or in the Oyu
Tolgoi project, Rio said in a July 7 filing to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        