-- J.C. Flowers Said to Plan Building Society Takeovers With Kent Reliance
-- Jon Menon
-- 2010-07-12T11:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/j-c-flowers-said-to-plan-building-society-takeovers-with-kent-reliance.html

          
          
             J.C. Flowers & Co. the U.S.
leveraged buyout firm, is in talks with  Kent Reliance Building
Society  to create a joint company which will seek to acquire
other customer-owned lenders in the U.K., said two people with
knowledge of the situation.  
 Callum McCarthy , European chairman of J.C. Flowers and
former  Financial Services Authority  chairman, will sit on the
board of the new venture alongside  David Morgan,  a managing
director of the buyout firm, said the people who declined to be
identified because the details are private.  
 “If the new structure proceeds, it would allow for
substantial new capital investment to support the business and
would provide a means for the society’s members to remain
members of a mutual organisation,” said Kent Reliance in a
statement today. The agreement, which may be signed today or
tomorrow, will have to be agreed by the society’s 180,000
members, one of the people said.  
 J.C. Flowers, run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . banker
 Christopher Flowers , was among potential bidders for Northern
Rock Plc months before it was nationalized in 2008. The
agreement comes as net lending by building societies, mutuals
designed to provide home loans, shrank in each of the last 17
months.  
 Kent Reliance’s management will comprise more than half of
the board and hold a stake of more than 50 percent in the new
venture which will be classified as a bank, said one of people.
Kent Reliance, valued at 50 million pounds, will place its loans
and deposits in the new company.  
 Mutual Mergers  
 J.C. Flowers will invest 50 million pounds in the company
and may ultimately commit several hundred million pounds to
bolster the capital of other mutuals that merge with the unit,
one of the people said.  
 Nationwide Building Society, the U.K.’s largest, has
expanded in the last two years by buying customer-owned lenders
weakened during the financial crisis, including Derbyshire,
Cheshire and Dunfermline building societies. Kent Reliance would
be able to double in size over five years with the additional
investment, even without further mergers, the person said.  
 Kent Reliance, whose origins date back more than 150 years,
had 2.26 billion pounds of assets and posted net income of 1.7
million pounds for the year ending Sept. 30, 2009. It has nine
outlets.  
 Companies including  Vernon Hill ’s Metrobank and a planned
new operation led by Lloyd’s of London Chairman  Peter Levene ,
are seeking to enter Britain’s consumer banking industry.  
 Officials at J.C. Flowers and Kent Reliance declined to
comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        