-- Jackson's `Runaway Slave' Comment About James Contradicts NBA Race Record
-- Leslie Patton
-- 2010-07-12T21:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/jackson-s-runaway-slave-comment-about-james-contradicts-nba-race-record.html

          
          
             Reverend Jesse Jackson  inserted race
into the debate of LeBron James’s departure from Cleveland. Yet
the National Basketball Association sets the pace for blacks in
major professional sports.  
 “I have not seen any racial tension between owners and
players,” said  Richard Lapchick , author of the  2010 Racial and
Gender Report Card , published June 9, giving the league an “A”
for race relations. “The NBA is the industry leader.”  
 Seventy-seven percent of players and 27 percent of head
coaches in basketball are black, compared with 67 percent and 19
percent in the National Football League and 9 percent and 13
percent in Major League Baseball, Lapchick said.  Michael Jordan ,
who owns the NBA Charlotte Bobcats, is the only majority owner
of a men’s professional team who is black, said Lapchick,
founder of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport at
the University of Central Florida in Orlando.  
 The racial composition of sports franchises drew attention
after Jackson criticized the comments of  Dan Gilbert , the
majority owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers, who said last week
that James’s decision was a “shocking act of disloyalty.”  
 “His feelings of betrayal personify a slave master
mentality,” Jackson wrote in a  statement  released yesterday by
his Chicago-based Rainbow PUSH Coalition. “He sees LeBron as a
runaway slave.”  
 James, the NBA’s reigning Most Valuable Player, announced
July 8 that he would join  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  on the
Miami Heat after seven seasons playing for the Cavs.  
 ‘Cowardly Betrayal’  
 “You simply don’t deserve this kind of cowardly
betrayal,” Gilbert wrote in a  letter  to Cleveland supporters
posted on the team website shortly after the announcement.
Gilbert, who is the founder and chairman of Quicken Loans Inc.
based in Livonia, Michigan, has owned the Cavaliers since March
2005.  
 “I strongly disagree with Rev. Jesse Jackson’s recent
comments and we are not going to engage in any related
discussion on it,” Gilbert said in a statement.  
 Jackson didn’t respond to phone messages and an e-mail
seeking comment. NBA spokesman Tim Frank said the league has no
comment.  
 Cavalier fans split over whether Gilbert’s comments -- and
Jackson’s reaction to them -- were appropriate.  
 Capturing Outrage  
 “I can’t believe he would say that,” said Benjamin
Jackson, 22, creator of the blog “ LeBron James Is Underrated ,”
who is not related to the Chicago civil-rights leader. Gilbert
is a hero in Cleveland because his letter captured the outrage
of local fans, said Jackson, a student at Ohio University in
Athens.  
 While Gilbert was understandably hurt by James’s decision,
said Alder Chapman, founder of the LeBron James Grandmothers Fan
Club, the team owner was unfair to his former star.  
 “I was angry with the letter because he came down too
hard,” said Chapman, 70, who started the club in 2006 in Akron,
Ohio, James’s hometown. “These are young people that want to
make their own life.”  
 “The grandmothers still love him,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Leslie Patton  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        