-- Japanese Bonds Fall on U.S. Economy Outlook; Pimco Says Demand to Soften
-- Yoshiaki Nohara
-- 2010-07-13T06:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/japan-s-government-bonds-may-decline-as-earnings-optimism-to-boost-stocks.html

          
          
             Japan’s 10-year  bonds  fell amid
speculation U.S. reports will show the world’s largest economy
is improving, reducing demand for the relative safety of
government debt.  
 Bonds dropped for the third time in four days before data
economists said will show U.S. retail sales fell at a slower
pace and the job market improved. Pacific Investment Management
Co. sounded concern about continued demand for Japanese debt,
while central bank data showed the nation’s public pension fund
was a net seller last year. The  Ministry of Finance  sold 2.2
trillion yen ($24.8 billion) in five-year bonds today.  
 “We may see positive reports out of the U.S. this week,
which could reduce excessive concerns about a double dip in the
economy,” said  Takashi Nishimura , an analyst in Tokyo at
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., a unit of Japan’s
largest lender by assets.  
 The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year bond gained one basis
point to 1.125 percent as of 3:28 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
yield fell as much as 3.5 basis points yesterday, the most since
June 29.  
 The 1.1 percent security due June 2020 lost 0.089 yen to
99.776 yen. Ten-year bond futures for September delivery
retreated 0.05 to close at 141.40 at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 A Commerce Department report will show on July 14 that
retail sales in the U.S. fell 0.3 percent in June after a 1.2
percent slide the previous month, according to economists’
projections compiled by Bloomberg. The number of Americans
applying for jobless benefits likely dropped in the week ended
July 10, a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  
 Pension Fund Sales  
 The lowest price at the sale of the 0.4 percent notes due
in five years was 0.01 yen below the average, half that of the
previous sale in June. The so-called tail is the difference
between the lowest and the average price. The longer the tail,
the less bids are clustered around the average price.  
 “The auction result is resilient, reflecting excess cash
that is flooding domestic financial companies,” said  Makoto Noji , a senior market analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  
 Japan’s public pension fund sold more government bonds than
it bought for the first time in nine years, underscoring concern
that an aging population will make domestic investors less able
to finance state borrowings.  
 The fund sold a net 443.2 billion yen of Japanese
government bonds in the year ended March 31, according to Bank
of Japan data released last month. It held 79.5 trillion yen of
the securities at the fiscal year end, 11.6 percent of the
outstanding amount.  
 ‘Some Problems’  
 “Once Japan is dependent upon non-Japanese investors to
support the JGB market, we do foresee some problems,” said
David Fisher, head of global product management for Pimco,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  
 “This is one of the main reasons why in the global bond
portfolio we have very, very limited exposure to JGBs despite
the fact that yields are not so terribly unattractive on a
hedged basis,” Fisher said on a conference call from Tokyo
today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masaki Kondo  in Tokyo at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoshiaki Nohara  in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        