-- Kier Group Rallies After Forecasting Increase in Full-Year Pretax Profit
-- Stephen Morris
-- 2010-07-12T11:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/kier-group-rises-after-forecasting-full-year-pretax-profit-to-increase.html

          
          
             Kier Group Plc , a U.K. company that
helped to build the Channel Tunnel rail link, rose the most this
year in London trading after forecasting a full-year profit
increase.  
 Kier climbed as much  as 6.6 percent, the most since Dec. 1.
So-called underlying pretax  profit  would be “towards the upper
end” of analysts’ estimates for the year ended June 30 and
ahead of the previous year, the Sandy, Bedfordshire, England-
based company said in a Regulatory News Service statement today.  
 Net cash balances at year-end were at a record of more than
170 million pounds ($255 million), from 93 million pounds a year
earlier, “which reflects the quality and strength of our order
books and our continued strategy to reduce our investment in the
Partnership Homes business,” the company said.  
 Kier, which is unusual in U.K. construction companies in
focusing on both homebuilding and non-residential construction,
has suffered from the housing slump. The company said today it
is “seeing signs of the private commercial market returning.”  
 The company said it had limited “exposure” to the
“Building Schools for the Future” program, cut back last week
by Education Secretary Michael Gove as part of the government’s
attempt to reduce the budget deficit. Rival construction company
Interserve Plc said last week it forecast a 5 to 10 percent drop
in income from public-sector clients over the next two years.  
 “We are picking up a little more confidence in the private
sector, but there’s a lot of uncertainty about the year ahead,”
analyst  Andy Brown  of Panmure Gordon, who has a “buy
recommendation” on the stock, said in a phone interview. “Kier
are more than likely to pay the dividend as we expected. If you
own this one, stick with it.”  
 He said the main determinant for Kier’s long-term prospects
will be the U.K. government’s autumn spending review, when
spending plans for the next four years will be revealed.  
 The company also announced Group Finance Director  Deena Mattar  will leave in November, to be replaced by Haydn Mursell,
currently Deputy Group Finance Director of Balfour Beatty Plc.  
 Kier  rose  as much as 62 pence to 1,005 pence and traded at
987 pence as of 12:12 p.m. in London. The stock has lost 4.2
percent this year, giving the company a market value of 369.9
million pounds ($557 million).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        