-- King's Men Fiddle With U.K. Forecasts: David G. Blanchflower
-- David G. Blanchflower
-- 2010-07-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/king-s-men-fiddle-with-u-k-forecasts-commentary-by-david-g-blanchflower.html

          
          
             It is time to reveal a dirty little
insider’s secret. It isn’t hard to make time-series forecasting
models produce wildly different results.  
 Estimates have a tendency to whizz around all over the
place in the face of small changes in assumptions, data used and
time period covered. And errors can be huge, especially at
turning points, so carefully considered judgment matters.
Economic forecasts can be massaged, so independence is vital.  
 During my time on the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy
Committee, which makes quarterly economic prognoses, Governor
 Mervyn King  controlled the hiring and firing of the forecast
team, who did his bidding. They had to produce a result that was
consistent with King’s views, or else they would be history. A
patchwork of arbitrary fixes and prejudices frequently drive
forecasts, which for the uninitiated are hard to see.  
 King always emphasized the importance of top-down
judgments, which means you can just make stuff up as you go
along. Worryingly, this was often only loosely based on the
workings of the real world. Such glorified guesswork operated
reasonably well during the boom years, but failed miserably when
the  recession hit . To put it bluntly, it isn’t that hard to
manipulate a forecast. I have seen it done.  
 On May 17, 2010, the U.K.’s new first lord of the Treasury
and chancellor of the Exchequer,  George “Slasher” Osborne ,
held a press conference to announce that the Treasury would stop
producing its own economic forecasts.  
 ‘Fiddle the Figures’  
 “I am the first chancellor to remove the temptation to
fiddle the figures by giving up control over the economic and
fiscal forecast,” he said. “I recognize that this will create
a rod for my back down the line, and for the backs of future
chancellors. That is the whole point. We need to fix the budget
to fit the figures, not fix the figures to fit the budget. To do
this, I am today establishing a new independent Office for
Budget Responsibility. For the first time, we will have a truly
independent assessment of the state of the nation’s finances.”  
 Bold stuff. Unfortunately, after only a couple of months
the OBR is proving to be neither responsible nor independent.
Instead, there is growing evidence that this new organization
had actually fiddled its own figures to get the new
coalition government out of a jam. The OBR, as currently
constituted, has failed almost as soon as it began.  
 Appearance Is Everything  
 An office with “responsibility” in its title and
“independent” in its  Web address  was always going to have a
lot to live up to. The OBR has manifestly shown that it isn’t
taking care of its duties and doesn’t appear to be autonomous.
Appearance is everything.  
 The government has claimed the OBR is independent even
though it is physically located in the Treasury; it is staffed
by a handful of seconded Treasury officials; all queries are
handled by the  Treasury press office ; and if you call them, the
Treasury switchboard answers.  
 On June 22, Osborne announced a program of measures to cut
public spending and raise taxes, including an increase in the
value-added tax rate to 20 percent from 17.5 percent. The OBR
produced a forecast that suggested these measures would have a
minimal effect on employment and  unemployment .  
 Subsequently, leaked documents showed they would actually
result in the loss of at least 500,000 public-sector jobs and
600,000 to 700,000 jobs in the private sector.  
 Political Interference  
 By noon the next day, the OBR had produced a new forecast
saying that, even with these job cuts, employment would rise and
unemployment would fall every year throughout the forecast
period. The idea that the private sector would fill this hole by
creating as many as 2.5 million jobs was greeted with howls of
incredulity. And with a new forecast produced so quickly, it
smacked strongly of political interference.  
 Adding to the firestorm,  Alan Budd , the OBR’s boss, almost
immediately announced he would be leaving. The government’s
claims that Budd’s appointment was always intended to be
temporary don’t appear credible.  
 A few days later, the plot thickened when it was reported
that the OBR had also put a positive gloss on the employment
numbers by trimming its forecasts for public-sector job losses
by about 175,000. The OBR pre-empted the results of the Pensions
Commission by assuming lower pension contributions and reduced
promotions for public servants, even though the government
hasn’t announced such a plan. Both assumptions cut the job-loss
figure. Meanwhile, policy initiatives that would lower long-term
growth and increase unemployment were excluded.  
 As a young economist, I gave a presentation on youth
unemployment to an academic panel at the Congressional Budget
Office, which produces a forecast twice a year for the U.S.
Congress. The panel’s purpose is to “provide advice to
further the reliability, professional quality and transparency
of the CBO’s work.” Before the talk, I had no idea who was on
the panel. Sitting in front of me, among others, were Nobel
laureates  Lawrence Klein ,  Paul Samuelson ,  James Tobin  and  Robert Solow , who had to sign off on the forecast before it was made
public. That is independence.  
 ( David G. Blanchflower , a former member of the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee, is professor of economics
at Dartmouth College and the University of Stirling. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
David Blanchflower at  david.g.blanchflower@dartmouth.edu   
          
          


  


        