-- New Jersey Assembly Passes Real-Estate Tax Cap in Compromise With Christie
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-12T18:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/new-jersey-assembly-passes-property-tax-cap-under-compromise-with-christie.html

          
          
             Assembly lawmakers in  New Jersey ,
the state with the highest property taxes in the U.S., approved
a plan endorsed by Governor  Chris Christie  to cap annual
increases in real-estate levies at 2 percent.  
 The measure, which cleared the Democratic-controlled house
73-4 today, would lower the current restriction from 4 percent
and reduce exceptions. The taxes are the prime source of funding
for cities, schools and counties.  
 New Jersey property taxes climbed 72 percent from 1999 to
2009, to an average of $7,281. Taxpayer anger helped Christie
become the first Republican elected governor in the state since
1997. Checking the increases will make the state more affordable
and attractive to businesses and residents, he has said.  
 “New Jersey families can finally look forward to the kind
of real, long-term property-tax relief that Trenton has failed
to deliver for decades,” Christie said in a statement. “A hard
cap of 2 percent with limited exceptions that puts final
authority to exceed the cap in the hands of the people is the
substantial and sustainable reform New Jersey needs.”  
 Christie, 47, who took office in January, will sign the
bill tomorrow, said his spokesman,  Michael Drewniak .  
 The governor had pushed for a 2.5 percent ceiling to be
written into the state constitution, with exemptions only for
debt service or when approved by referendum. Democrats sought a
statutory cap with more variances, and the Legislature approved
a ceiling of 2.9 percent last month.  
 Compromise Agreement  
 The 2 percent limit was a compromise announced July 3 by
Christie and Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a Democrat from
West Deptford. The Senate passed the measure July 8.  
 Under the new limit, towns may boost taxes beyond the cap
to meet rising health-insurance costs, pension expenses, bond
payments or to cope with a natural disaster. Communities would
also be able to exceed the cap through referendum.  
 “It will take a recalibration of what services people
expect their government to provide,” said Assemblyman  John Burzichelli , a Democrat who sponsored the bill. He’s also mayor
of Paulsboro, located across the Delaware River from
Philadelphia.  
 The agreement followed Christie’s call for a special session
of the Legislature to consider his constitutional proposal. He
summoned lawmakers back from their summer recess following
passage of his $29.4 billion budget for the fiscal year that
started July 1. Democrats control the Assembly 47-33 and all
Republicans in the chamber supported the legislation.  
 ‘Closed-Door Deal’  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheila Oliver , who called the compromise a
“closed-door deal” between Sweeney and Christie, said she’s
seeking more exemptions for towns to cope with lost state aid,
rising special-education costs and uncollected taxes.  
 “You’re going to see a diminution of the operations of
local government,” Oliver, a Democrat from East Orange, said
following the vote. “This is an imperfect bill. But least it
opened up the conversation and put a focus on property taxes in
this state.”  
 Property taxes increased an average of 3.3 percent last
year, the lowest in a decade as towns dealt with a 4 percent
limit enacted in 2007 by Governor  Jon Corzine , the Democrat
ousted by Christie in November. That legislation contained 14
exemptions, prompting Christie to call it a “Swiss cheese”
cap.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     New Jersey Governor Chris Christie speaks during an interview in New York. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
