-- New York Racetracks Face Insolvency Without Slots Revenue, DiNapoli Says
-- Justin Doom
-- 2010-07-12T16:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/new-york-horse-tracks-face-insolvency-without-slots-revenue-dinapoli-says.html

          
          
             The New York Racing Association
Inc., operator of the Aqueduct, Belmont and Saratoga horse
tracks, faces insolvency in 2011 without revenue from long-
delayed electronic slot machines,  New York  Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said.  
 State officials disqualified all bids but a Malaysian
casino operator’s last week to develop an electronic slot-
machine parlor, called a racino, that would include more than
4,000 video lottery terminals, or VLTs, and other facilities at
Aqueduct Racetrack in New York City.  
 New York Racing , which has run the state’s horse racing
franchise since 1955, sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in
2006. Since emerging from court supervision two years later, the
association has run up operating deficits of $8.9 million in
2009 and a projected $19 million in 2010, DiNapoli said today.  
 “When you start with six potential bidders and end up with
only one, it begs the question of how the process was handled
and whether the state can actually close the deal,” DiNapoli
said today in a statement. “The fact is NYRA can’t make it long
without significant restructuring and revenues from VLTs.”  
 Genting Malaysia Bhd.,  owner of casinos in Singapore, the
Philippines and the U.K., is the only surviving bidder after two
U.S.-based firms were disqualified, the New York Lottery
 announced .  
 Proposals Rejected  
 Proposals by a group led by  SL Green Realty Corp., 
Manhattan’s biggest office landlord, with partners  Hard Rock
International  and Toronto-based  Clairvest Group , and Wyomissing,
Pennsylvania-based  Penn National Gaming Inc.,  which operates 19
casinos and racetracks, didn’t conform with the requirements of
the competition, Lottery Director  Gordon Medenica  said in a
statement July 6.  
 Without revenue from the racino, New York Racing can’t
repay $105 million it borrowed from the state to exit bankruptcy
in 2008, according to the audit.  
 The association hasn’t received more than $47 million in
expected revenue, including $30 million from video-lottery
terminals and $17 million from New York City Off-Track Betting
Corp. Wagering on horses declined 13.2 percent to $2.22 billion
in the period from September 2008 through March 31, according to
the audit.  
 The state Legislature approved a $25 million loan to New
York Racing on May 24 to allow the operation to continue through
the end of the state fiscal year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Doom  in New York at   jdoom@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        