-- Nissan Motor Evaluates China's Baosteel as Global Supplier to Lower Costs
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T09:28:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/nissan-motor-evaluates-china-s-baosteel-as-global-supplier-to-lower-costs.html

          
          
             Baosteel Group Corp. , China’s
largest supplier of auto-sheets, said  Nissan Motor Co.  is
evaluating its products for global purchasing as the Japanese
carmaker seeks to lower raw material costs.  
 This is the first time a Chinese steelmaker has been
selected for evaluation as a global supplier to Japan’s third-
largest carmaker, the Shanghai-based mill said in a  statement  on
its website.  
 The move underscores the rising competition Japanese
steelmakers such as Nippon Steel Corp. face from China, where
 exports  last month jumped to the highest level since September
2008. Nissan Motor is predicting that North American sales will
rise 13 percent this fiscal year, and is planning to boost
production capacity in China by almost 70 percent by 2012.  
 “Japanese carmakers, who used to buy from local
steelmakers, are seeking to diversify their steel supplies and
trying to lower costs,” said  Luo Wei , a Shanghai-based steel
analyst with China International Capital Corp. “For ordinary
grades of auto steel, Baosteel is able to compete with its
Japanese rivals including Nippon Steel.”  
 Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , the listed unit of Baosteel,
closed unchanged at 6.15 yuan in Shanghai. Nissan Motor rose 1.9
percent to 655 yen in Tokyo.  
 Winning acceptance as Nissan Motor’s global supplier will
help reduce Baosteel’s reliance on the Chinese market, where it
has more than half the market share. Domestic demand is
weakening from automakers, Baosteel said July 5 in a statement.  
 All Nissan Models  
 Nissan shall “combine its development of new models and
lighter cars with cooperation with Baosteel on technology
research to lower costs and on sourcing raw materials from
China,” Baosteel said in the statement.  
 The steelmaker is already supplying products for all of
Nissan car models in China, Zhang Wei, a media official with
Baosteel, said today by phone. Baosteel supplies to Dongfeng
Motor Co., a venture between  Dongfeng Motor Corp.  and Nissan
Motor, in the nation.  
 Japanese steelmakers may be seeking more suppliers as
domestic mills pressure them to accept higher steel prices.
JFE Holdings Inc., the nation’s second-biggest mill, said June
22 that it expects automakers and other customers to accept
higher steel prices as raw material costs rise.  
 Hayato Uchida , a spokesman for Tokyo-based Nippon Steel,
Japan’s largest steelmaker, declined to comment.  Mitsuru Yonekawa , a Tokyo-based spokesman for Nissan, declined to
confirm or deny whether the carmaker is evaluating Baosteel’s
products.  
 -- Helen Yuan , with assistance by  Masumi Suga  and  Makiko Kitamura 
in Tokyo. Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        