-- Nomura Ranks First on China Equity Research in Institutional Investor Poll
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-13T05:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/nomura-holdings-tops-institutional-investor-s-china-equity-research-poll.html

          
          
             Nomura Holdings Inc.  was ranked
first in China research by Institutional Investor magazine’s
inaugural All-China Research Team ranking.  
 The Tokyo-based company won 14 total team positions,
beating  Citigroup Inc.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , which tied
for second position, the magazine said on its  website . BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research was in fourth place, followed by
Deutsche Bank AG, according to the magazine.  
 Chinese stocks  are the worst performers in Asia this year,
with the Shanghai Composite Index falling 24 percent on concern
government efforts to curb inflation and property speculation
will slow the world’s third-largest economy. Nomura’s chief
Asian equity strategist  Sean Darby  said on June 23 the brokerage
was turning positive on China’s yuan-denominated shares for the
first time this year, citing greater flexibility in the yuan’s
exchange rate, improving risk appetite and large cash holdings
of domestic fund managers.  
 “With China offering such enviable  economic performance 
but so much uncertainty over the impact of present and future
policy changes on the nation’s equity markets, it’s not
surprising that investors are clamoring for research and insight
into what has become arguably the world’s most important
economy,” Institutional Investor said.  
 Nomura’s  Jiong Shao  was the top-ranked analyst for
industrials research while  Yankun Hou  also came in first for
consumer discretionary stocks. The brokerage also had four
analysts ranked second in their respective industries, one
coming in third, as well as seven runner-ups, according to the
magazine.  
 Citigroup, Goldman Sachs  
 Citigroup had four analysts ranked first, the most among
the 13 brokerages in the poll, including  Pierre Lau  for
utilities research as well as  Oscar Choi  for property. The New
York-based brokerage had nine total team positions, the same as
Goldman Sachs.  
 Deutsche Bank’s  Jun Ma  was top-ranked for economics
research, followed by Nomura’s  Sun Mingchun  and Morgan Stanley’s
 Qing Wang . Among equity strategists,  Frank Li  of JPMorgan Chase
& Co. came in first, according to the poll. He was trailed by
 David Cui  of BofA Merrill and  Thomas Deng  of Goldman Sachs.  
 The results were based on responses from 1,300 investment
professionals at more than 560 institutions that managed about
$704 billion in Chinese equities, the magazine said. Foreign
investors’ access to the nation’s yuan-denominated, or A shares,
is limited mainly through the qualified foreign institutional
investor program.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        