-- Northrop May Close Louisiana Navy Yard, Jindal Says
-- Gopal Ratnam
-- 2010-07-13T20:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/northrop-may-shut-louisiana-navy-yard-threatening-5-000-jobs-jindal-says.html

          
          
             Northrop Grumman Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Wes Bush  may be giving up on one of the two
U.S. Navy shipyards whose vessels were cited for defects and
delays.  
 Governor  Bobby Jindal  of Louisiana said yesterday that
Northrop has told the state that the yard in Avondale near New
Orleans risks being shut because it lacks orders beyond 2012,
putting about 5,000 employees out of work. Louisiana is in talks
with possible buyers and tenants, Jindal said in a statement.  
 Closing Avondale may help Bush boost shipbuilding profits
 margins  that are less than half of those at  General Dynamics
Corp.  Earnings have been damped by $431 million in charges since
2008 for delays, poor-quality work and damage from Hurricane
Katrina at Avondale and a yard in Pascagoula, Mississippi.  
 “It would be a good thing for Northrop if they can
extricate themselves without negative financial impact,”  Peter Klein , senior portfolio manager at Cleveland-based Fifth Third
Asset Management, said in a phone interview. His firm owns about
160,000  shares , or less than 1 percent of Northrop’s stock,
according to Bloomberg data.  
 Randy Belote , a spokesman for Los Angeles-based Northrop,
said the Navy’s long-term shipbuilding plan “requires a smaller
industrial base” while declining to comment on any
conversations between Jindal and the third-largest U.S. defense
contractor.  
 Northrop acquired the shipbuilding business of Litton
Industries Inc. in 2000, adding the Avondale and Pascagoula
yards. In 2001, it bought Newport News Shipbuilding Inc. to
expand into nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and submarines,
and topped General Dynamics as the biggest Navy shipbuilder.  
 Ship Margins  
 Bush, 49, who became CEO on Jan. 1, has focused on
improving the Gulf Coast yards. Northrop’s operating margin for
its ship division was 4.8 percent last year compared with 10.1
percent for  General Dynamics . Shipbuilding  sales  in 2009 were
$6.21 billion, or 17 percent of Northrop’s $33.8 billion total.  
 The Louisiana and Mississippi yards make transports and
amphibious assault ships that take Marines into battle and DDG-
51 Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, whose production alternates
between Northrop and General Dynamics. Consolidating output of
those vessels in one Gulf Coast yard would help Northrop match
capacity to the Navy’s future purchases.  
 Avondale’s future already was in question after the Navy
told lawmakers in February that it was canceling the planned
purchases in 2012 and 2014 of two amphibious command ships due
to have been built at the yard.  
 Off to Mississippi  
 Once Avondale finishes building its transport ships from
the LPD-17 class in 2012, any potential work on future vessels
from the 11-ship class will be done in the Ingalls yard in
Pascagoula, Jindal said in an e-mailed statement, citing
comments from Northrop to the state.  
 The governor said he and U.S. lawmakers from Louisiana will
appeal to the Navy and the “federal government not to turn its
back on New Orleans and Avondale.” Spokesman Frank Collins said
Jindal, a Republican, wasn’t available to elaborate.  
 Discussions about other users for the yard are being held in
case Northrop exits, because the company “does not intend to
keep Avondale open for the long term in the absence of a viable
Navy shipbuilding program there,” Jindal said in the statement.  
 Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, plans to write
Navy Secretary  Ray Mabus  asking for his support to preserve jobs
at Avondale, her spokesman  Aaron Saunders  said in an e-mail.  
 Northrop rose 71 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $55.26 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have declined 1.1 percent this year.  
 ‘Inefficient Yard’  
 Without Navy orders, “it makes little sense” for Northrop
to keep Avondale open,  Howard Rubel , a Jefferies & Co. analyst
in New York, said in an e-mail. The Navy “won’t pay the freight
for an inefficient yard,” said Rubel, who has a “buy” rating
on Northrop stock.  
 Of five LPD-17 transports completed since 2000 at
Northrop’s two Gulf Coast yards, three needed to return for
repairs after the Navy found poor-quality welding or
lubrication-oil contaminants that damaged the ships’ engines.  
 In April 2008, Northrop took a $326 million pretax charge
for exceeding budget and delays on one class of ship, and $105
million more in July 2009 for cost increases to finish vessels
from two other classes.  
 With damage from Katrina adding to the strain from the
quality defects and delays at the Gulf Coast yards, “we have
problems in every area,”  Mike Petters , the ship unit’s
president, said in a recent interview.  
 Northrop has added training for welders, tighter supplier
oversight and tougher inspections to end defects and delays,
Petters said. Even with those steps, the drag on earnings from
shipbuilding may last until 2012 when Northrop delivers the
ninth ship in the LPD-17 class, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Governor of Louisiana Bobby Jindal speaks during a conference in New Orleans. Photographer: Patrick Semansky/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 13 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Deirdre Bolton reports on the latest breaking news and top stories in today's Business Briefs. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
