-- NYSE Euronext Plans Trading Platform to List Non-U.K. Companies in London
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-07-13T11:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/nyse-euronext-plans-to-operate-london-stock-market-for-non-u-k-companies.html

          
          
             NYSE Euronext  plans to introduce a
platform in London to list non-U.K. companies in a bid to
compete with the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc , according to a
statement on the company’s Paris-based website.  
 Trading in shares and depositary receipts of companies
opting for this venue can be in U.S. dollars, euros or pounds,
according to a Euronext  document . The market was mentioned in
March at a NYSE Euronext investor day conference in New York.  
 “Why not? It’s a me-too strategy and at low marginal cost
there’s the chance to attract listings and some trading
volume,” said  Bruce Weber , a professor at the London Business
School who specializes in exchanges and electronic trading.
“It’s an opportunity for NYSE though they certainly have
competition. London has been a center for international equities
trading since the 80’s.”  
 NYSE is preparing to start the service as European
companies prepare the most initial public offerings in two years
after IPOs weathered the region’s debt crisis and outperformed
U.S. deals. More European companies went public last month than
in any period since July 2008. While concern about widening
deficits drove the benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  down as much
as 15 percent this year, Ernst & Young LLP and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. forecast that offerings will increase after nine of the 10
biggest IPOs of 2010 posted gains.  
 European Platform  
 Securities will trade on  NYSE Euronext ’s European platform,
which combines stocks currently listed in France, the
Netherlands, Belgium and Portugal. The listing venue will be
regulated by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority. NYSE
Euronext spokesman  Christiaan Brakman  confirmed that the London-
based listing venue is being introduced this year.  
 Non-U.K. issuers will benefit “from a much broader, more
diverse and more liquid investor pool than on many of our
competitors,”  Ronald Kent , head of international listings at
NYSE Euronext, said in a  video  on the Euronext website. More
than 55 percent of trading in Euronext markets comes from the
U.S. and other “international investors,” with the rest from
countries using the euro as their currency, he said.  
 ‘Leading Financial Centers’  
 “NYSE Euronext London unites the strength and visibility
of London, as one of the world’s leading financial centers, with
NYSE Euronext’s foremost position in the European markets,” the
firm said in a document describing the market. The listing venue
“provides a unique market attractive to international issuers,
financial intermediaries and investors,” the document said.  
 The market will be overseen by Liffe Administration &
Management, which is regulated by the FSA. Liffe is NYSE
Euronext’s U.K. derivatives market. Securities listed on NYSE
Euronext London will be cleared by LCH.Clearnet SA, according to
the document describing the market.  
 “They are coming to London because the regulatory
arrangements are well known and clearing arrangements are the
same as for the LSE,” Weber said. “It could attract volumes in
companies where the home markets are not sufficiently cost-
effective, transparent, or fast for today’s global investors and
trading firms.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        