-- NYSE Liffe US Acquires Exclusive Futures Licenses to Trade 41 MSCI Indexes
-- Nina Mehta
-- 2010-07-12T19:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/nyse-liffe-us-acquires-exclusive-futures-licenses-to-trade-41-msci-indexes.html

          
          
             NYSE Liffe US acquired exclusive
rights to trade futures on 41 equity indexes operated by MSCI
Inc. and said it expects volume in the contracts it now shares
with CME Group Inc. to jump at least 10-fold within 18 months.  
 Futures on  MSCI ’s indexes, including its emerging markets
gauge with $67.5 billion linked to it through exchange-traded
funds, will cease on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange by June 17,
2011, MSCI said today. CME Group acquired 90 percent of a
venture with News Corp. in March to license about 130,000 Dow
Jones Indexes.  
 Liffe US has been building volume in equity, gold and
silver futures since opening last year and plans to add
Eurodollar and U.S. Treasury futures in the third quarter,
according to Marco Bianchi, head of business development at the
exchange owned by  NYSE Euronext . It’s counting on U.S. asset
managers’ expanding interest in non-U.S. equity products to
boost the market for MSCI futures.  
 “We’ve increased our volume and our investment in the
index family,” Bianchi said. “Our focus is on marketing these
products, bringing in new users and talking to clients about
trading new products.”  
 MSCI  got $79.9 million in revenue from subscriptions to
equity indexes in the three months ended May 31, according to
the company. The value of ETFs linked to the firm’s equity
indexes averaged $252 billion, compared with $135 billion a year
earlier, according to a July 1 statement.  
 September Start  
 NYSE Liffe US plans to begin trading MSCI products based on
European markets, including MSCI Pan Euro Index and MSCI EMU
Index, around September. As part of the expansion,  NYSE Euronext 
will shift trading in MSCI indexes from its Liffe exchange in
London to NYSE Liffe US.  
 NYSE Euronext expects its relationships with brokers and
market makers established through its stock and options
exchanges in the U.S. and abroad to help build its equity
futures platform and increase trading. Six brokers own equity
stakes in NYSE Liffe US, including units of DRW Trading Group,
Citadel Investment Group LLC and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  
 The exchange has about 10 market makers who will provide
bids and offers in MSCI futures, including some offering
liquidity at the best prices and others in larger sizes for
institutions who need to trade more than what’s available at the
best buy or sell level, Bianchi said. Another set of brokers
will submit public bids and offers for investors to interact
before the market opens.  
 While Bianchi declined to name the market makers, he said
it’s “not inconceivable that firms that are partners of NYSE
Liffe US will help us build products and liquidity.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        