-- Crude Snaps Three-Day Gain on Signs That U.S. Economic Growth May Falter
-- Grant Smith
-- 2010-07-12T12:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/oil-declines-from-one-week-high-as-traders-sell-futures-to-lock-in-gains.html

          
          
             Oil halted a three-day advance in
New York as traders viewed last week’s climb above $76 as
excessive, given signs that U.S. economic growth may falter.  
 Crude slid as much as 1.1 percent, paring last week’s
gains. Retail sales in the U.S., the biggest energy user,
probably fell in June for a second month and industrial
production cooled, economists said before reports this week.
China, the world’s second-largest energy consumer, reported
record oil imports in June.  
 “The wind has come out of the market’s sails,” said
 Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache Commodities Ltd.
“Last week we got to the top of the recent trading range but
failed to break through it, so without a boost from the equity
market, oil is likely to sag a bit more.”  
 Crude for August delivery traded at $76.06 a barrel, 3
cents lower, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange as of 1:24 p.m. London time. It earlier fell 81 cents
to $75.28 a barrel. Brent crude for August settlement was down 5
at $75.37 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, after falling as low as $74.52.  
 Futures in New York, up 27 percent in the past 12 months,
have lost 4.7 percent so far this year. Oil increased 5.5
percent last week, the biggest rally in six weeks, as declining
U.S. crude stockpiles and a drop in jobless claims bolstered
speculation the country would sustain its economic recovery.  
 China Imports  
 China’s net crude purchases climbed to 22.14 million metric
tons in June, beating the previous record of 20.98 million tons
in April, according to preliminary data from the General
Administration of Customs on July 10. Imports surged 30 percent
in the first half of this year on higher demand and lower costs.
The country paid an average of $77.20 a barrel for crude in
June, compared with $82.50 in May.  
 “The Chinese trade data was quite strong for crude oil
imports,” said  David Moore , a commodity strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. in Sydney. “U.S. demand has
picked up over the year, but the strongest growth is in the
developing economies.”  
 U.S. commercially held oil  inventories  tumbled 4.96 million
barrels in the week ended July 2, the most since September, as
refiners boosted operating rates, the Energy Department said in
a July 8 report.  Fuel demand  rose 3.2 percent to 19.6 million
barrels a day, the highest since the week to May 28.  
 Long Positions Reduced  
 Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reduced
their net-long position in New York oil futures for a second
week, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.  
 Speculative long positions , or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 26,215 contracts in the week
ended July 6, the Washington-based commission said July 9 in its
Commitments of Traders report.  
 Oil may push toward $84 a barrel based on signals from on a
Japanese charting method called Ichimoku Kinko Hyo, or “one-
glance cloud chart,” according to Astmax Ltd.  
 Oil’s close in New York on July 9 of $76.09 a barrel has
breached the upper edge of the Kumo, or cloud, formation between
$75.70 and $73.57 on a daily chart, a sign that prices will
rise, said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity-fund manager at Astmax in
Tokyo. Prices may be limited by the top of $80.21 on the weekly
Ichimoku graph.  
 The International Energy Agency, an adviser to oil-
consuming nations, publishes its monthly market report tomorrow.
The IEA said in a June 23 medium-term report that growth in
world fuel demand will slow in the next five years as the pace
of Chinese consumption moderates.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        