-- Hong Kong Lawmakers Meet on Henderson's Collapsed Sale of 20 Apartments
-- Kelvin Wong
-- 2010-07-12T01:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/hong-kong-lawmakers-meet-on-henderson-s-collapsed-sale-of-20-apartments.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s Legislative Council
today holds its first special session to discuss  Henderson Land
Development Co. ’s collapsed sale of 20 luxury apartments worth
HK$2.67 billion ($343 million), even after the developer refused
to attend the meeting.  
 Hong Kong’s government increased its scrutiny of property
developers after Henderson’s October announcement that one of
the apartments sold at 39 Conduit Road had fetched a record
HK$88,000 a square foot. Twenty of the 24 sales in the
development were later canceled. The government has sought
details on the sale agreements.  
 “The company strongly rejects” allegations that there
have been irregularities in the sale of the apartments,
Henderson Land said in a statement published in the South China
Morning Post newspaper today.  
 Members of the Legco housing panel on July 5 voted 7-to-1
to invite the developer, controlled by billionaire  Lee Shau-kee ,
to today’s meeting. Henderson said a Legco appearance is
“inappropriate” because it has “sufficiently disclosed”
details on the transactions and an investigation is still under
way, according to a July 8 press release.  
 Hong Kong police and other law enforcement agencies are
investigating the sales at the project, Transport and Housing
Secretary  Eva Cheng  told lawmakers during the Legco session on
July 5. Cheng declined to specify the other agencies and give a
schedule for the investigation.  
 Attending today’s meeting are officials from the Lands
Department and Hong Kong Housing Authority. The government has
submitted all the letters exchanged between Henderson and the
Lands Department to the Legco,  Duncan Pescod , the Permanent
Secretary for Transport and Housing, told lawmakers at today’s
meeting.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        