-- Oracle Plans Benchmark Debt Sale, Software Maker's First Offering in Year
-- Katie Evans
-- 2010-07-12T17:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/oracle-plans-first-debt-sale-in-more-than-a-year-as-it-replenishes-cash.html

          
          
             Oracle Corp ., the world’s second-
largest software maker, plans to sell $3.25 billion of bonds in
its first offering in more than a year and the biggest debt sale
by a non-financial borrower in 13 weeks.  
 The company is marketing $1 billion of 10-year notes that
may yield about 85 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and $2.25 billion of 30-year securities that may pay
a 140 basis-point spread, according to a person familiar with
the transaction, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  
 The software maker may sell the debt as soon as today and
will apply proceeds to repay debt due in January 2011, to
replenish cash used to pay debt that matured in May, and for
general corporate purposes, the person said.  
 Oracle sold $4.5 billion of debt in June 2009 to help
finance its acquisition of Sun Microsystems Inc., which was
completed in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The $7.3 billion purchase helped boost fourth-quarter profit at
the company. Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, had $1
billion of floating-rate notes due in May and has $2.2 billion
of debt maturing in January, according to a July 1 filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 The offering is the biggest by a non-financial issuer in
the U.S. corporate bond market since  Telefonica SA , Europe’s
second-largest phone company, issued $3.5 billion of debt in
April through its financing affiliate, Bloomberg data show.
Including financial issuance, the previous biggest offering was
on July 7, when Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau, the German
development bank, issued $5 billion of securities.  
 Deborah Hellinger  and  Karen Tillman , spokeswomen for
Oracle, didn’t return phone calls and e-mails seeking comment on
the offering.  
 Credit Ratings  
 Oracle issued $1.75 billion of 10-year notes last year that
priced at 99.627 cents on the dollar to yield 5.093 percent, or
a 155 basis-point spread, Bloomberg data show. The company sold
$1.25 billion of 30-year bonds that priced at 99.334 cents on
the dollar to yield 6.175 percent, or a 185 basis point spread,
the data show.  
 The company is selling more 30-year bonds than it has ever
previously issued, Bloomberg data show.  
 The notes may be rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service,
five levels below the top investment grade, and an equivalent A
by Standard & Poor’s, the person said.  
 “We expect Oracle to maintain a capital structure in line
with current ratings, coupled with strong earnings and cash flow
protection,” S&P analysts wrote in an April 30 note. “We also
expect acquisitions to continue to be a part of management’s
growth strategy.”  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Merrill Lynch and BNP
Paribas are managing the sale for the company, the person said.  
 Microsoft Corp ., the world’s largest software maker, raised
$1.15 billion of interest-free financing from its first sale of
convertible bonds last month, Bloomberg data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katie Evans  in New York at 
 kevans28@bloomberg.net ;
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        