-- More Public Workers in New Jersey Seeking Retirement Amid Funding Cuts
-- Terrence Dopp
-- 2010-07-13T04:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/more-public-workers-in-new-jersey-file-to-retire-in-2010-teachers-up-86-.html

          
          
             Thirty percent more public workers
in  New Jersey  filed to retire this year than in the previous 12
months as towns and schools cope with Governor  Chris Christie’s 
state funding cuts.  
 The  Treasury department  received forms from 9,669 state and
local government employees who plan to retire this calendar
year, compared with 7,394 applications last year. A total of
6,840 educators applied, up from 3,671 retirement filings in
2009, according to data provided to Bloomberg News by the
Treasury department.  
 “You’re losing your most talented and experienced
people,” Steve Baker, a spokesman for the New Jersey Education
Association, said in an interview yesterday. Teachers are
discouraged by a “lack of resources and the governor’s
continual drumbeat against us.”  
 New Jersey voters in April defeated a record 59 percent of
school budgets after Christie, a Republican who took office Jan.
19, called on them to overturn plans in districts where teachers
wouldn’t accept wage freezes. His state budget for the current
year cut aid to schools by $820 million and for municipalities
by $445 million, leading local governments to lower spending and
fire employees.  
 In July alone, 2,868 public-worker retirements are
anticipated, up from 1,314 in the same period a year earlier,
and 5,444 education workers plan to retire compared with 2,203
last year, according to the state figures.  
 ‘Could Get Worse’  
 The retirements will leave government at a loss for
experienced workers and prompt service cuts, said  Rae Roeder ,
president of Communications Workers of America Local 1033.  
 “A lot of people are retiring that I don’t think would
have if we had better relations” with Christie, Roeder said.
“It could very well get worse.”  
 Christie, 47, who pledged not to raise taxes to close a
record $11 billion deficit, included about $10 billion in cuts
in his budget for the fiscal year that began July 1. He also
skipped the state’s $3 billion pension contribution and
eliminated property-tax rebates in 2010.  
 The governor signed a package of bills in March that
removed future part-timers from the pension system, capped sick-
time payouts and required teachers and public workers to pay at
least 1.5 percent of their salaries toward health-insurance
costs. He has said he’s next going to seek changes to benefits
for current employees. Treasurer  Andrew Eristoff  said yesterday
that Christie’s administration aims to have a pension package
out later this year.  
 “Given all the discussion about pension and benefit reform
it’s not unexpected there would be many state and local
employees who would consider this a good time to retire,”
Eristoff said in an interview yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        