-- Morgan Stanley's Trevor, Bohart to Leave Firm's Asset-Management Division
-- Michael J. Moore
-- 2010-07-12T20:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/morgan-stanley-s-trevor-bohart-to-leave-firm-s-asset-management-division.html

          
          
             Stephen Trevor  and  Stuart Bohart ,
the former co-heads of  Morgan Stanley ’s asset-management unit,
plan to leave the company seven months after  Gregory Fleming  was
hired as president of the division.  
 Spokeswoman  Alyson Barnes  confirmed Bohart and Trevor’s
plans to exit  Morgan Stanley Investment Management  and declined
to comment further. The Wall Street Journal reported the
departures earlier today.  
 The unit had pretax profit of $173 million in the first
quarter, snapping eight quarters of losses on that basis. Morgan
Stanley sold its retail asset-management business, including the
Van Kampen funds, to Invesco Ltd. last month to focus on
institutional funds.  
 Bohart, who oversaw the core asset-management business, had
worked at Morgan Stanley since 1997. Trevor joined the firm in
2006 from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to build Morgan Stanley’s
newly established private-equity business. Both reported to
Fleming, a former Merrill Lynch & Co. executive who was hired by
Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  in December.  
 Morgan Stanley  said in a statement earlier today that it
appointed  Michael Kushma  chief investment officer for global
fixed-income in the bank’s asset-management unit. He will
oversee the unit’s fixed-income strategies, the New York-based
bank said.  
 Morgan Stanley also hired  Sara Fuber  as chief operating
officer of the long-only business,  Jim Janover  as global head of
risk for the investment-management unit and  Lisa Jones  as its
global head of sales, according to the statement. The firm also
hired  Navtej Nandra  to lead Morgan Stanley Investment Management
International.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael J. Moore  in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        