-- Morgan Stanley Predicts `Deluge' of Australian Bank Bonds as Debt Matures
-- Katrina Nicholas
-- 2010-07-12T06:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/morgan-stanley-predicts-deluge-of-australian-bank-bonds-as-debt-matures.html

          
          
             Commonwealth Bank of Australia  leads
the nation’s four biggest banks in preparing a “deluge” of
bond sales as they seek to refinance notes and fund lending,
driving up costs for the most indebted, Morgan Stanley said.  
 Commonwealth Bank,  Westpac Banking Corp ., National
Australia Bank Ltd. and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. need to borrow about A$140 billion ($122 billion) in the
year to Sept. 30 and A$162 billion in the following 12 months,
Morgan Stanley strategists led by  Pieter Van Der Schaft  wrote in
a note e-mailed today.  
 Investors will “increasingly differentiate between banks
on the basis of funding requirements,” the strategists said.
Most sales will have to be done “at a higher cost offshore due
to limited onshore absorption capacity of new bank issuance.”  
 Australia’s top four banks, facing tougher capital rules
requiring them to hold more liquid assets and less of each
others’ debt, are seeking funds offshore in an effort to cut
borrowing costs. The extra yield investors demand to hold
Australian financial company debt instead of government bonds
has jumped 22 basis points since the start of June, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index shows.  
 Westpac , Australia’s second-biggest bank by market value,
raised A$800 million from five-year bonds on June 29, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The notes, priced to yield 135 basis points more than the
 bank bill swap-rate , caused spreads on comparable four- and six-
year Australian dollar-denominated bank bonds to widen by 15
basis points, Morgan Stanley said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Katrina Nicholas  in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        