-- Medicare Fraud Effort Gives Elderly Surprise Hospital Bills
-- Drew Armstrong
-- 2010-07-12T20:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/hospital-fraud-audits-spur-unintended-cash-penalty-to-elderly-on-medicare.html

          
          
             Larry Barrows, 76, spent eight days
in a Canton, Connecticut, hospital after falling twice in a day.
Despite being covered by Medicare, the federal health plan for
the elderly, Barrows was hit with $36,000 in normally reimbursed
bills because of an unintended glitch in U.S. rules.  
 John Dempsey Hospital  said Barrows was under
“observation” during his stay, said his wife, Lee. Under
Medicare rules, patients listed as under observation face 20
percent co-payments that wouldn’t be required if they were
admitted, and expensive aftercare isn’t covered at all. Larry
Barrows needed three months of rehabilitation that Medicare
wouldn’t pay for because the hospital didn’t call him an
inpatient, something his family didn’t learn until halfway
through his hospital stay, said his wife.  
 “A hotshot doctor came down armed with a social worker and
Larry’s doctor, and said, ‘Gee, I’m sorry, your husband’s never
been admitted,’” Lee Barrows, 75, said in a telephone
interview. “I said, ‘Who the hell have I been visiting?’”  
 Elderly patients caught between U.S. hospitals and  Medicare 
auditors pushing to cut costs are increasingly facing tens of
thousands of dollars in unexpected medical bills like the
Barrowses, patient advocates say.  
 The observation classification is designed to be used when
there isn’t an immediate diagnosis, or if it is determined the
condition isn’t normally treated within an inpatient setting,
such as setting broken bones.  
 Challenging Admissions  
 Hospitals, though, sometimes extend the use of observation
status to avoid being challenged by  Medicare auditors  on patient
admissions when cases fall in a gray area between inpatient and
outpatient. Inpatients are more costly to Medicare, said  Robert
Corrato  of Executive Health Resources, a consultant for
hospitals on how to classify patients. Medicare watches
admissions closely, and if an admission is ruled inappropriate,
the hospital doesn’t get paid.  
 “There’s fear they will be brought under scrutiny for
making a false claim,” Corrato, whose closely held company is
in Newton Square, Pennsylvania, said in a telephone interview.  
 That shouldn’t be happening, said  Marilyn Tavenner , acting
administrator of the  Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services .
In most instances, observation shouldn’t last for more than 48
hours, she said in a July 2 telephone interview.  
 “Patients staying three, four, five, six days is not the
intent of observation,” Tavenner said. “Observation is
designed for the first 24 to 48 hours. Beyond that, hospitals
should make a decision about whether to admit.”  
 Medicare Letters  
 Medicare  has begun looking into how hospitals use the
observation classification. In letters sent July 7 to the
 American Hospital Association , the Federation of American
Hospitals, and the Association of American Medical Colleges,
Tavenner asked the trade associations why use of observation
cases lasting more than two days had doubled from 2006 to 2008.  
 “Observation care of more than 24 hours can have
tremendous impact on Medicare beneficiaries,” Tavenner wrote.
“Only in rare and exceptional circumstances would it be
reasonable and necessary for outpatient observation services to
span more than 48 hours.”  
 Anecdotal reports indicate that use of observation may have
grown since 2008. In December 2008, Medicare expanded a pilot
auditing program nationwide to cut fraud. Since then, the number
of patients in long-term observation has increased, said Toby
Edelman, senior policy attorney with the  Center for Medicare
Advocacy , in Washington. Lee Barrows isn’t alone in her
frustration, Edelman said.  
 ‘Calls From All Over’  
 “We’re getting calls from all over the place about this,”
said Edelman, citing complaints from 18 states since 2008.
“They’re told when they’re being discharged, that ‘By the way,
Medicare won’t pay for your nursing home care because you
weren’t an inpatient.’”  
 The hospital audit program began in 2005 in the three
states with the biggest Medicare markets, New York, California
and Florida. Medicare expanded it in 2006 on the way to a
national rollout.  Contractors  who run Medicare claims processes
have also upped enforcement, and Democrats added $350 million to
fight fraud in the 2010 health-care law.  
 Mike Summerer, director of  John Dempsey Hospital , where
Larry Barrows stayed, said the hospital is feeling pressure from
auditors. “It’s not unusual to have an inpatient admission
denied that we then have to correct to outpatient, or
observation,” he said in a telephone interview.  
 Dempsey Hospital’s average time for observation is 24
hours, he said, though there are exceptions when patients don’t
have an available next step of care. He declined to discuss
Barrows’ case, citing privacy law concerns.  
 ‘A Few Extra Days’  
 “We use observation status, as defined in our policy, to
observe patients and decide what their status will be,”
Summerer said. Sometimes, “they might stay in outpatient status
for a few extra days.”  
 Hospital associations and patient advocates interviewed
said they’ve been getting the same type of feedback from
patients as the advocacy center’s Edelman about increasing
numbers of long-term observation stays.  
 “We certainly have been aware of an increased trend in
observation and have been monitoring it in southeast
Pennsylvania for the past year or so,” said Pam Clarke, vice
president of health-care finance at the  Hospital & Healthsystem
Association of Pennsylvania , based in Harrisburg.  
 Health Overhaul  
 The issues surrounding hospital classifications are likely
to become more prominent as a result of a provision in the
health overhaul signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in
March. The new program aims to retrieve about $1 billion a year
from hospitals that re-admit too many patients, according to a
 Congressional Budget Office  analysis.  
 “Certainly, hospitals will have an incentive not to admit
people if they’re going to be penalized if they re-admit them,”
said  Nora Super , director of government relations with AARP, the
lobby for people ages 50 and older.  
 Hospitals need to make sure patients receive the kind of
treatment they require based on their condition and not “on how
to generate the most revenue,” AARP, based in Washington, said
today in an e-mail.  
 “AARP expects Medicare and hospitals to work together to
address this disturbing trend,” said Executive Vice President
 John Rother  in the statement. He said the observation
classification may lead to higher costs and lower quality for
Medicare patients and may deprive them of necessary follow-up
care, such as stays in a skilled nursing home.  
 Observation Only  
 Dot Kirby, 90, of Saratoga, California, said she didn’t
know the consequences of the observation status after she fell
in her garage in January, fracturing her hip in two places. She
was taken to  El Camino Hospital  in Mountain View, California,
where she has worked as a volunteer for 30 years, before
stopping a decade ago.  
 After her fall, “I couldn’t walk, I couldn’t do
anything,” she said. When she entered the hospital, a staff
person had her sign a form saying she was in observation, Kirby
said in a telephone interview.  
 “I didn’t know anything about it and she didn’t explain it
to me,” Kirby said. The hospital took X-rays of her hip and,
according to a record of the hospital charges provided by Kirby,
performed $25,498.73 of care and services.  
 When she left the hospital, she needed five weeks of
physical therapy at a nursing facility to walk again. Medicare
refused to pay the $11,180.93 bill, she said.  
 Lost Benefits  
 Under the agency’s rules, Medicare would have covered
Kirby’s bill had she been a hospital inpatient for three days or
more.  
 While a patient’s doctor decides whether someone is
admitted, hospitals review those decisions. The status of
patients can be changed as a result of these reviews, said
Corrato, the hospital consultant.  
 “In the past, the reality was that hospitals and
physicians were on their honor,” he said. “No more.”  
 Medicare’s Tavenner disputed the idea that pressure from the
audits, which are contracted to private companies, were causing
hospitals to put more patients in observation longer.  
 In her July 7 letter to hospital groups, Tavenner wrote
that “Some have speculated that the recent increase in the
duration of observation care is due to hospitals’ concern about
post-payment review of inpatient claims. We wish to emphasize
that that there has been no change in CMS policy for how
hospitals should approach such cases.”  
 Medicare Monitoring  
 Corrato disagreed. He said auditors in the Medicare program
are increasingly looking at whether a patient should have been
admitted. The agency has “made it very clear that they were
going to be looking very closely at medical utilization,”
Corrato said.  
 A 2008 Medicare  report  on the audit program supports his
statement. It says that 41 percent of the overpayments found by
the auditors “was due to the service being rendered in a
medically unnecessary setting ... These are situations where the
beneficiary needed care but did not need to be admitted to the
hospital to receive that care.”  
 Edelman and the Center for Medicare Advocacy have demanded
that Medicare, which pays hospitals almost $200 billion a year,
stop them from using “observation services” for long periods.  
 “Congress needs to make clear that anyone who is in a
hospital for 24 hours or more is considered an inpatient,”
Edelman wrote in an e-mail. “Medicare beneficiaries either
forego nursing home care entirely or pay tens of thousands of
dollars privately for care that Medicare should have covered.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       HOSPITAL OBSERVATION  
                       
                         
                           Chris Ware/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lee Barrows poses with a photograph of her late husband Larry at her home in Connecticut. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lee Barrows poses with a photograph of her late husband Larry at her home in Connecticut. Photographer: Chris Ware/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Lee Barrows poses for a portrait with medical bills at her home in Connecticut. Photographer: Chris Ware/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
