-- Most Asian Stocks Rise on Higher Metal Prices, Weaker Yen; Honda Advances
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-12T05:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/most-asian-stocks-rise-on-increase-in-metal-prices-weaker-yen-sony-gains.html

          
          
             Most Asian  stocks  advanced as gains
in metal prices bolstered mining companies and a weakening yen
boosted Japanese exporters of cars and electronics.  
 Rio Tinto Group , the world’s third-largest mining company,
rose 1.4 percent in Sydney.  Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s second-
biggest carmaker, increased 3.8 percent as the yen weakened to
its lowest level this month against the dollar. China Overseas
Land & Investment Ltd. led Hong Kong developers higher on
speculation China will relax curbs on mortgages. Stocks also got
a boost on speculation profit reports this week will show gains.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  was little changed at 116.18 as
of 2:13 p.m. in Tokyo, with three shares advancing for every two
that declined. The gauge has slumped 10 percent from its high
this year on April 15 on concern Europe’s debt crisis and
Chinese steps to curb property prices will hurt global growth.  
 “There’s been some abating of double-dip concerns and
fresh optimism ahead of the reporting season,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which holds $90 billion. “There are still a few political and
economic uncertainties on the horizon.”  
 Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average swung between gains and
losses after the ruling Democratic Party of Japan lost control
of the upper house in elections yesterday. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng
Index climbed 0.7 percent.  
 Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.3 percent, while
South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.4 percent. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index increased 0.8 percent.  
 Commodities Advance  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  fell 0.2 percent.
The U.S. gauge rose 0.7 percent in New York on July 9 amid
optimism about earnings reports and a rally in metals prices.
Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. maker of aluminum, will be the
first company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average to report
results for the second-quarter when it releases earnings today.  
 Rio Tinto advanced 1.4 percent to A$69.05.  Newcrest Mining
Ltd. , Australia’s biggest gold producer, rose 1.9 percent to
A$34.97. Santos Ltd., the country’s No. 3 producer of oil and
gas, gained 0.9 percent to A$14.12 after UBS AG raised the stock
to “buy” from “neutral.” Mitsubishi Corp., a commodities
trading company, gained 0.7 percent to 1,986 yen in Tokyo.  
 The  London Metal Exchange Index  of six metals increased 1.6
percent on July 9. Copper futures for September delivery rose
1.3 percent in New York on speculation global growth will be
resilient and metals demand will gain. Gold futures for August
delivery advanced 1.1 percent on July 9, the most since June 17.  
 ‘Double-Dip’ Concerns  
 “Signs of recovery in the commodities market show that
investors’ concerns about a global double dip are easing,” said
 Tomochika Kitaoka , a senior strategist at Mizuho Securities Co.
in Tokyo.  
 Honda , which gets more than 40 percent of its revenue in
North America, rose 3.8 percent to 2,705 yen. Sony Corp., an
electronics maker that counts the U.S. as its largest single
market outside Japan, gained 4.2 percent to 2,548 yen. They were
the two biggest supports to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  
 The yen depreciated to as low as 89.16 against the dollar
today from 88.66 at the close of Tokyo stock trading on July 9,
boosting the value of U.S. income at Japanese companies when
converted into their home currency.  
 China Overseas Land gained 4.2 percent to HK$16.04 in Hong
Kong on speculation the government will relax curbs on mortgage
lending after property-price gains slowed. In Shanghai, Poly
Real Estate Group Co., China’s second-largest developer by
market value, climbed 4.6 percent to 11.95 yuan.  
 Chinese Property Prices  
 China’s property prices snapped 15 months of gains and bank
lending eased in June, indicating that curbs on credit may
diminish inflation pressures even as record exports support
growth.  
 Real-estate prices in 70 cities fell 0.1 percent from the
previous month, the statistics bureau said in Beijing today.
New lending of 603 billion yuan ($89 billion) was the least in
three months, the central bank said in a report yesterday.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has slumped about 3.5 percent
this year, cutting the average price of its shares to 14.1 times
estimated earnings. That’s close to the 13.7 times reached on
July 2, the lowest level since December 2008.  
 Material producers and banks have fallen the most this year
among the index’s 10 industry  groups  on concern Europe’s debt
crisis would lead to slowing economic growth and reduce demand
for commodities.  
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. , Japan’s biggest bank
by market value, dropped 2.4 percent to 416 yen today and
 Shinsei Bank Ltd.  slumped 2.8 percent to 70 yen.  
 Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s loss of control of the
upper house of parliament undermines his administration’s
ability to pass laws to cut the world’s largest public debt, and
creates the possibility of a third leadership change in a year.  
 “The unexpectedly small number of seats won by the DPJ may
prompt investors to take a wait-and-see approach,” Mizuho’s
Kitaoka said.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Naoto Kan, Japan's prime minister and president of the Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ), speaks during a news conference at the party's election center in Tokyo. Photographer: Haruyoshi Yamaguchi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
