-- Housing Gets Sick on Keynesian Roller Coaster: Kevin Hassett
-- Kevin Hassett
-- 2010-07-12T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/housing-gets-sick-on-keynesian-roller-coaster-commentary-by-kevin-hassett.html

          
          
             New home sales data have been
gathered by the U.S. Census Bureau since the early 1960s. In
May, they dropped to their lowest level in recorded history,
increasing the risk of the dreaded double-dip recession.  
 The collapse coincided with the expiration of the federal
tax credit for homebuyers in late April that Keynesians told us
would restore stability to housing markets. On July 2, President
 Barack Obama  signed legislation that extends the period in which
the credit can be claimed until September, and many Democrats
are clamoring for the credit itself to be extended as well.  
 Many nonpartisan economists who have studied stimulus
spending have generally concluded that it is counterproductive
and destabilizing. The history of the homebuyers’ credit
provides a case study that illustrates where that conclusion
comes from.  
 It all began back in 2008, as the recession was just
picking up steam. At that point,  new home sales  had dropped to a
level of 500,000 a month, about half the rate of boom times.
Congress decided that a tasty incentive to buy a house might
help turn the tide.  
 The first-time homebuyer tax credit was created as part of
the  Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 , which was signed
by President  George W. Bush  on July 30 of that year. It offered
a credit of 10 percent of the sale price, or as much as $7,500,
and applied to homes purchased between April 8, 2008, and July
1, 2009.  
 Credit Extension  
 The Obama administration expanded and extended the program
as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in
February 2009. This legislation extended the credit through Dec.
1, 2009, and increased the credit amount to $8,000.  
 Last November, with the expiration looming, Obama signed
into law the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act
of 2009. This extended the first-time homebuyer credit through
April 2010, and included a credit of $6,500 for current
homeowners who purchase a house between Nov. 7, 2009, and April
30. This act also raised the income limits for qualifying for
the credit.  
 A look at new home sales suggests that the credit didn’t
have the intended effect of stimulating a resurgence in the
housing market. New home sales, which fuel the construction that
can drive gross domestic product growth, failed to rise above
the level of 477,000 that they posted in the month that the
credit was first passed. It is probably the case that sales
would have dropped more without the credit, but a large share of
the credits were almost certainly claimed by people who were
going to buy a house anyway.  
 But since the other parts of the stimulus didn’t work very
well either, there were few people willing to buy a home for any
reason.  
 Signs of Fraud  
 The credit did, however, waste an enormous amount of your
tax dollars.  
 Last October, I wrote a column in this space discussing the
rampant fraud that has been a hallmark of the homebuyer tax-
credit program. The problem was the Obama administration decided
that the money had to be spent as fast as possible, so it
provided the credit to anyone who said they deserved it without
requiring that the recipient provide the documentation to
support that claim. That led to the credit being awarded to
19,300 people who, upon review, didn’t buy a home. Among those
receiving the credit were 580 children younger than 18,
including a 4-year-old toddler, below the age of legal
homeownership.  
 Although the Internal Revenue Service has increased
enforcement efforts since that time, a recent report reveals
that fraud is still a significant problem for the program.  
 Room for Inmates  
 An updated audit report shows that even after increased
enforcement efforts were made, about 2,700 people defrauded the
government by claiming a credit for homes purchased before April
9, 2008. In the more recent round of fraud, 1,295 prisoners
claimed to have purchased a house while incarcerated (including
241 on life sentences). Most disturbingly, IRS employees
themselves played the game, with 87 fraudulently claiming the
credit in 2009 and 2010. Altogether, the total cost to taxpayers
of legitimate and fraudulent credits exceeded $30 billion.  
 So the housing stimulus didn’t stimulate much, added
billions of dollars to our bloated  deficit , and wasted tax
dollars.  
 What is worse is what happens now. While some of the plunge
in new home sales is attributable to the shifting of sales into
April, another part of the drop is related to the expectation of
future policy. In particular, a home buyer in July should
rationally postpone a  home purchase  for now, since Congress will
almost surely reintroduce the credit some time soon.  
 More Volatility  
 So the market intervention created a small surge in home
buying while it was in effect, and then depressed purchases
until the credit is reintroduced. Thus, in an effort to buttress
the economy, the credit program increased volatility in the
housing market.  
 Such an outcome was, sadly, as predictable as can be. A
2003 study of Keynesian policies in 91 countries performed by
economists Antonio Fatás and  Ilian Mihov  and published in the
 Quarterly Journal of Economics , concluded that, “governments
that use fiscal policy aggressively induce significant
macroeconomic instability.”  
 From now on, economic releases should have the following
disclaimer in an opening footnote, “The economic roller coaster
you are riding has been presented to you by your friendly
neighborhood Keynesians.”  
 ( Kevin Hassett , director of economic-policy studies at the
American Enterprise Institute, is a Bloomberg News columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Kevin Hassett at 
 khassett@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Kevin Hassett, director of economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute and a Bloomberg news columnist, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the impact of the home-buyer tax credit on the U.S. housing market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
