-- Toyota, Tesla Said to Prepare Electric RAV4, RX Prototypes
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-12T13:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/toyota-tesla-motors-said-to-prepare-electric-rav4-lexus-rx-prototypes.html

          
          
             Toyota Motor Corp.  and  Tesla Motors
Inc.  will develop battery-powered test versions of the Japanese
carmaker’s RAV4 and Lexus RX in the first stage of a partnership
in electric vehicles, a person familiar with the matter said.  
 Tesla said July 10 that it will deliver two prototypes
vehicles to Toyota this month without identifying the models.
While Toyota also aims to test an electric Corolla compact car,
the RAV4 and RX light trucks are better suited to the weight of
Tesla’s battery pack, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the vehicles haven’t been announced yet.  
 Toyota’s President  Akio Toyoda  said last week the
partnership with Tesla, maker of the  $109,000 electric Roadster ,
is the first of several the Toyota City, Japan-based company
wants to pursue in advanced auto technologies. Toyota, the
world’s largest seller of hybrid autos, bought a $50 million
stake in Palo Alto, California-based Tesla this month.  
 “We anticipate range and acceleration exceeding that of
other announced electric vehicles of this class,”  Elon Musk ,
chief executive officer of Tesla, said today in an e-mailed
message. He declined to discuss project details.  
 Keisuke Kirimoto , a Tokyo-based spokesman for Toyota, said
he couldn’t confirm the models. Toyota bought its stake in Tesla
July 2, he said.  
 ‘Cost Advantage’  
 The target for a model developed with Tesla would be for a
car that costs about $40,000 with 150 miles (240 kilometers) of
driving range per charge, the person familiar with the plans
said.  
 “Toyota and Tesla engineering teams have made a lot of
progress in a short amount of time,”  JB Straubel , Tesla’s chief
technology officer, said in a July 10 e-mail message.  
 Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, rose 13 cents to $71.20 at 9:44 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares  were unchanged 
at 3,120 yen today in Tokyo trading. Tesla, which listed shares
last month, rose 42 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $17.82 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading.  
 Carmakers are under pressure from regulators to develop
models that use little or no petroleum and emit fewer gases
linked to global warming.  
 Unlike Toyota,  Nissan Motor Co. , and other companies
readying battery models, Tesla vehicles use thousands of the
same type of small lithium-ion battery cells that power laptop
computers.  
 Panasonic Venture  
 Toyota Executive Vice President  Shinichi Sasaki  told
reporters Friday in Nagoya, Japan, that the company wants to
study that approach to see if it has advantages over using
larger types of battery cells.  
 Panasonic Corp. , which has a  joint venture  with Toyota that
makes nickel-metal hydride batteries for hybrid autos and
lithium-ion batteries for plug-in models, said in January it
would work with Tesla to develop modified lithium-ion cells for
use in electric cars.  
 “Since Tesla didn’t develop its battery pack from scratch,
there’s a cost advantage,” said  Hiroshi Ataka , an analyst at
consulting company IHS Global Insight in Tokyo.  
 Nissan, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, plans to start
selling its Leaf electric car in the U.S. and Japan later this
year. General Motors Co., the Detroit-based carmaker planning an
initial public offering, will also introduce its Chevrolet Volt
plug-in car in the U.S. late this year.  
 Toyota’s project with Tesla is separate from a previously
announced electric car Toyota aims to sell by 2012, Toyoda said
last week.  
 “While Toyota may be studying Tesla’s technology, Toyota
has been researching its own electric car batteries, so it may
be unlikely to use Tesla’s,” Ataka said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Tokyo at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Akio Toyoda, president of Toyota Motor Corp., speaks during a news conference at the company's headquarters, in Tokyo. Photographer: Kimimasa Mayama/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
