-- Pakistan Inflation Slows for a Second Month, Giving Room to Maintain Rates
-- Farhan Sharif
-- 2010-07-12T06:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/pakistan-inflation-slows-for-a-second-month-giving-room-to-maintain-rates.html

          
          
             Pakistan’s inflation slowed in June
for a second straight month after fuel prices declined, giving
room to the central bank to maintain its benchmark interest
rates.  
 Consumer prices rose 12.69 percent from a year earlier
after climbing 13.07 percent in May, the  Federal Bureau of
Statistics  said on its website today. The median of 17 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 12.75 percent gain.  
 Pakistan has one of the world’s highest benchmark interest
rates and is looking for ways to lower it to support an economy
hurt by terrorism and falling foreign investment. The central
bank refrained from cutting its discount rate in its last
monetary policy announcement on May 24, keeping it unchanged at
12.5 percent.  
 “An ease in policy rate is very unlikely,” said  Asad Farid , economist at AKD Securities Ltd., in Karachi. “Food
prices have started showing an upward trend again, while the
power tariff rise which was delayed will also add to the
pressure.”  
 On June 1, Pakistan decreased domestic fuel prices by as
much as eight percent to bring them in line with international
oil rates, according to the  Islamabad-based  Oil & Gas Regulatory
Authority. Rates were also reduced by as much as 3 percent on
July 1.  
 The government increased power tariffs by 7.6 percent on
July 1 with retrospective effect from April 1, to meet a key
condition of the International Monetary Fund. Pakistan received
an $11.3 billion bailout from the IMF over the last two years.  
 The South Asian economy expanded 4.1 percent in the year
through June 30. The next monetary policy review is due at the
end of this month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Farhan Sharif  in Karachi at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        