-- Peter Lynch's Lesson Leads Ellison Back Into Banking Stocks
-- Charles Stein
-- 2010-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/peter-lynch-s-lesson-leads-top-rated-manager-ellison-back-into-bank-stocks.html

          
          
             David Ellison  learned a simple
lesson from legendary mutual-fund manager  Peter Lynch  as a young
bank analyst at Fidelity Investments in the 1980s: If things at
a company are getting better, you want to own its stock.  
 Ellison, who today runs two top-rated financial funds at
Friedman Billings Ramsey & Co., said things are improving for
banks, especially small ones that can benefit from improving
credit conditions and consolidation in the industry.  
 “We’re in the process of going from ugly to OK in
banking,” Ellison said in an interview at his Boston office.
“If you ride the right horses, you will do all right.”  
 Investors such as  Jeremy Grantham  and  Robert Rodriguez 
remain bearish on lenders as ongoing struggles with delinquent
residential and commercial debt have  bank failures  on pace to
exceed last year’s 140, the most since 1992. Ellison, who moved
about 60 percent of his funds into cash in 2008, has added to
 top holdings  including  Washington Federal Inc.  and  Provident
Financial Services Inc.   
 The U.S. financial-regulatory bill, awaiting Senate
approval after being passed by the House on June 30, would have
a limited impact on small banks because they don’t invest in
hedge funds or engage in proprietary trading, activities the
legislation is designed to restrict, Ellison said.  
 The overhaul will create uncertainty for larger banks
without crippling their profits, said Ellison.  
 Getting Off ‘Lightly’  
 “Considering what the big banks cost the taxpayers, they
got off pretty lightly,” he said.  
 In May, the Treasury Department estimated it would spend
$105 billion on the  Troubled Asset Relief Program , or TARP,
created to aid the financial system after the September 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 Ellison, 52, started in banking with a summer job during
college as a teller in his hometown of Middletown, New York.
After earning a bachelor’s degree from St. Lawrence University
in Canton, New York, and a master’s in business administration
from Rochester Institute of Technology in Rochester, New York,
he joined Boston-based Fidelity in 1983, where he oversaw the
 Fidelity Select Home Finance Portfolio  from 1985 to 1996.  
 The fund gained an average of 21 percent a year in the
decade ended Dec. 31, 1995, compared with 15 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, data from Chicago-based  Morningstar
Inc.  show. Ellison worked under Lynch, Fidelity’s best-known
stock-picker, whose  Magellan Fund  surged 29 percent a year from
1977 to 1990.  
 ‘Profits Matter More’  
 Ellison recalled that he once hesitated to tell Lynch to
keep a bank stock in the portfolio because he didn’t like the
company’s management. Lynch listened to Ellison and replied,
“But do you think the company is getting better?” When Ellison
said yes, Lynch decided they should hang on to the stock.  
 “I learned a lesson,” Ellison said. “People matter.
Profits matter more.”  
 Ellison has run the $287 million  FBR Small Cap Financial
Fund  and the $46 million  FBR Large Cap Financial Fund  since
1997. The small-cap fund returned 12 percent a year in the
decade ended June 30, second-best among its industry peers
behind Burnham Financial Services, according to Morningstar. The
large-cap fund gained 6.3 percent a year, compared with 2.3
percent for the average financial fund.  
 The holdings of the small bank fund have a median market
value of $1.3 billion, compared with $33 billion at the large-
company fund, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Cashing Back In  
 Ellison beat 98 percent of his rivals two years ago when he
shifted three-fifths of the small-cap fund into cash because he
was concerned that rising non-performing loans would crimp
banks’ earnings. He started putting money back into bank stocks
in early 2009 after concluding “the world was not coming to an
end.”  
 The fund had 94 percent of its assets in stocks as of March
31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Washington Federal , the small-cap fund’s fourth-largest
holding, illustrates the trend in credit quality Ellison
anticipates. Non-performing assets fell to 3.9 percent in the
first quarter from a peak of 5 percent in the second quarter of
2009, the Seattle-based bank said in April.  
 “Management is encouraged by improving asset quality,”
the company wrote in its earnings report.  
 Ellison added shares of Washington Federal and Jersey City,
New Jersey-based Provident Financial, his third-largest holding,
in the first quarter.  
 Bad loans across the industry will be paid or written off
over time and replaced by newer and better ones, Ellison said.  
 Creditworthy Customers  
 Banks are lending to creditworthy customers and earning
higher profit margins after former competitors such as mortgage
companies were wiped out in the financial crisis and housing-
market decline, he said.  
 “This is the best time to be making loans I have seen in
my career,” Ellison said.  
 His comments echo those of  Bruce Berkowitz , manager of the
$14.4 billion  Fairholme Fund  in Miami, who bought stakes in
banks, including Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp.  and  Regions Financial Corp . in Birmingham, Alabama,
starting in the fourth quarter.  
 “The institutions that have survived to this point will
rise from the ashes,” Berkowitz said in an April interview.  
 Credit problems appear to have peaked in the first quarter
and are likely to shrink throughout the year, said  Gerard Cassidy , a Portland, Maine-based analyst at RBC Capital Markets.  
 ‘Piles of Garbage’  
 “The banks are working through the piles of garbage,”
Cassidy said in a phone interview.  
 Some of Ellison’s rival managers are shunning bank stocks
as too risky, saying the economy and real estate market could
weaken further over the next year.  
 “We don’t think we are through with the pain,” said  Barry James , whose mutual funds have “very limited” bank stocks, in
a telephone interview from Xenia, Ohio. James’s $642 million
 James Balanced Golden Rainbow Fund  beat 95 percent of rivals in
the past five years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Grantham, chief investment strategist at Boston-based GMO
LLC, held no bank stocks in is $13 billion  GMO Quality Fund  as
of Feb. 28. Two credit-card issuers were its only financial
company stakes, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Rodriguez’s $993 million  FPA Capital Fund  owned no bank
shares as of March 31. Based in Los Angeles, FPA Capital is the
best-performing U.S. diversified mutual fund over the past 25
years, according to Morningstar.  
 U.S. home prices could fall 6 percent to 8 percent before
reaching a bottom in 2011,  Patrick Newport , an economist for
Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Global Insight wrote in a
June 29 note to clients.  
 Economic Outlook  
 The Congressional Oversight Panel said in February that a
wave of commercial real estate loan losses over the next four
years “could jeopardize the stability of many banks,
particularly community banks.”  
 An economy that expands 2 percent to 3 percent a year will
be enough to support an improving credit climate, Ellison said.
The U.S. is expected to grow 3.2 percent this year and 2.9
percent in 2011, according to the average estimate of 66
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The  KBW Bank Index  climbed 16 percent this year through
July 9 on speculation that industry profits will rise, while the
S&P 500 lost 2.3 percent.  
 Iberiabank Corp ., the small-cap fund’s ninth-biggest
holding, has taken advantage of the consolidation trend. The
Lafayette, Louisiana, company acquired two failed Florida-based
lenders in November, Orion Bank and Century Bank, adding $2.5
billion in deposits and 34 branches.  
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. closed 90 banks this
year as of July 9.  
 “I want Darwin to pick my guys,” Ellison said.  
 Industry Shakeout  
 A continuing shakeout will eliminate weak players and allow
the surviving institutions to gain size and strength, he said.
Consolidation will provide greater benefits to small banks
because some may be able to double or triple in size, Ellison
said.  
 Acquisitions may accelerate because U.S. banks are better
capitalized in the wake of the financial crisis and have limited
opportunities to expand internally, analysts at Keefe, Bruyette
& Woods wrote in a June 30 note. They listed 38 banks as likely
buyers, included Washington Federal, Iberiabank and another
Ellison holding, Memphis, Tennessee-based  First Horizon National
Corp.   
 The U.S. banking bill may come to a Senate vote this week.
The legislation would create a consumer protection agency at the
Federal Reserve, give the government more authority to unwind
failing financial firms and impose new requirements on over-the-
counter derivatives markets and the banks that trade them.  
 Short-Term Pain  
 The rules will “attack” the profits of some of the
biggest banks in the short run, Ellison said.  
 “Over time, will they find a way to work around them? Of
course,” he said. “That is what they do.”  
 Among big banks, Ellison favors those with a large base of
customer deposits, which provide the companies a cheap and
stable source of funding. Bank of America, New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Wells Fargo & Co.  in San Francisco were
the large-cap fund’s top positions as of March 31.  
 Smaller banks have “fewer moving parts,” Ellison said.
“These guys are the basic American lenders. They will grind
through it.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Legendary mutual-fund manager Peter Lynch. Photographer: Michael Springer/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
