-- Penthouse Owner to Compete With Hefner for Playboy Control
-- Brett Pulley
-- 2010-07-13T14:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/playboy-says-hugh-hefner-proposes-to-purchase-all-shares-he-doesn-t-own.html

          
          
             FriendFinder Networks Inc. , owner of
Penthouse adult magazine, plans to submit a bid for  Playboy
Enterprises Inc. , following a $123 million offer from Playboy
founder  Hugh Hefner .  
 FriendFinder Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bell  said in an
interview the company is “looking at alternatives” and later
wrote in an e-mail it will probably make the bid today.  
 Playboy said yesterday that Hefner wants to take the
company private, and offered to purchase the shares he doesn’t
already own in Playboy, which includes the namesake men’s
magazine, merchandise, and television and video content.  
 Hefner plans to offer $5.50 apiece in cash for the Class A
and Class B shares, Chicago-based Playboy said in a statement.
Hefner, 84, is partnering with Rizvi Traverse Management LLC for
the transaction. The offer, at a premium of more than 30
percent, values Playboy at about $185 million.  
 Playboy said Hefner, who controls its voting shares, isn’t
interested in a merger or sale to a third party out of concern
for the company’s brand and Playboy magazine’s editorial
direction. Playboy has combined units and slashed jobs to cope
with a circulation plunge caused by Internet competition.  
 After Hefner founded the company in 1953, Playboy magazine
garnered a following for its photos of nude women, its satirical
cartoons, and its fiction. The first issue of the magazine
included photos of  Marilyn Monroe , and authors such as  Vladimir Nabokov  were published in Playboy’s pages.  
 Expansion Years  
 The company expanded around the globe in the 1960s and ‘70s
with Hefner at the helm. The company went public in 1971 and
circulation peaked at 7.2 million in 1972. In June, the company
hosted parties around the country to mark the 50th anniversary
of the once-famous Playboy membership nightclubs that dotted the
globe.  
 Playboy’s revenue has declined for the past two years as it
has lost more than $200 million. At the beginning of this year,
the company reduced Playboy magazine’s rate base, the total of
newsstand and subscription sales guaranteed to advertisers, to
1.5 million from 2.6 million. In addition to the magazine,
Playboy creates videos for its website and cable-television
networks, and licenses products with its bunny-ear brand.  
 ‘Girls Next Door’  
 The company last year hired  Scott Flanders  as chief
executive officer, replacing the founder’s daughter,  Christie Hefner . Christie Hefner had served as CEO for 20 years, as her
father continued to personify the brand with his lifestyle at
the Playboy mansion.  
 The Los Angeles mansion, which the company uses for
television shows, photo shoots and events, is “an enormous
asset to us,” said Playboy spokeswoman  Martha Lindeman . “It’s
a huge part of our brand.”  
 Hefner is currently most recognized for squiring voluptuous
young women around the mansion while clad in one of his
trademark silk smoking jackets. Some of the octogenarian’s most
recent girlfriends star with him in the TV show, “The Girls
Next Door,” and related online videos.  
 Hefner was sued in 2009 by an investor who said the Playboy
founder scuttled potential acquisitions so he could maintain his
residence at the mansion. Lindeman said she didn’t know the
status of the lawsuit because it was filed against Hefner
personally.  
 ‘Billion-Dollar Brand’  
 Bell said that if he successfully purchases Playboy, he
wouldn’t require Hefner to move out of the Los Angeles mansion.
Bell, whose company includes the AdultFriendFinder.com website,
said he is interested in Playboy for its online potential.  
 “Our interest is mostly the digital assets,” Bell said.
“We have no desire to throw him out.”  
 Hugh Hefner couldn’t be reached for comment, according to
Lindeman. Christie Hefner declined to comment, according to her
spokeswoman, Deb Parry.  
 In a conference call last month, Flanders said that
Playboy’s new strategy is to change from being an “inefficient
operator of small segments of media” to becoming more of a
brand management company.  
 Playboy, based in Chicago, is seeking partners to increase
revenue from licensed goods and expand branded clubs and
casinos. The moves are part of a restructuring plan that
Flanders has said will result in a profit in 2011.  
 On last month’s call, Flanders said that investors were
undervaluing Playboy stock.  
 “You could own the company for an enterprise value of $200
million, and we believe we have a billion-dollar brand,”
Flanders said at the time.  
 Declining Magazine Sales  
 Last week, the company announced that it would downsize its
organizational structure, resulting in a $3 million charge in
the second quarter of this year. In recent days,  Michael Dannhauser , Playboy’s senior vice president and controller since
1998, said that he was leaving the company. His duties were
given to  Christoph Pachler , according to Lindeman.  
 Hugh Hefner owns 69.5 percent of Playboy’s Class A voting
stock and 27.7 percent of the Class B non-voting stock. The
company said it hasn’t received a definitive offer from Hefner,
and the board has made no decision about the proposal.  
 Playboy B shares fell 14 cents to $5.41 at 10:29 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite  trading , after jumping 41
percent yesterday. The B shares had gained 23 percent this year
before yesterday. The A shares advanced 3 cents to $5.56, after
climbing 36 percent yesterday and closing at $4.06 on July 9.  
 Playboy magazine’s U.S. sales fell 48 percent to $7.1
million in the first quarter, reflecting the company’s decision
to lower the magazine’s rate base and combine some issues. The
company’s Print and Digital group lost $1.1 million in the first
quarter, compared with a loss of $3.6 million in the 2009
quarter. The group’s revenue fell 30 percent to $18.2 million.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Playboy magazines  
                       
                         
                           Rick Maiman/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Playboy magazines are displayed on a news stand in New York, on Nov. 12, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Playboy magazines are displayed on a news stand in New York, on Nov. 12, 2009.  Photographer: Rick Maiman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Todd Harrison, chief executive officer of Minyanville Media Inc., speaks about the proposal to take Playboy Enterprises Inc. private by founder Hugh Hefner.
     FriendFinder Networks Inc., owner of Penthouse adult magazine, plans to submit a bid for Playboy following the $123 million offer from Hefner. Harrison talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- David Bank, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, talks about the proposal to take Playboy Enterprises Inc. private by founder Hugh Hefner.
     Bank, speaking with Betty Liu and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop," also discusses Google Inc.'s business strategy and the outlook for the distribution of television content. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Playboy Enterprises founder Hugh Hefner Photographer: Gabriel Bouys/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     FriendFinder CEO Marc Bell is interested in Playboy for its online potential. Photographer: Robert Caplin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
