-- Poland's Budget Draft May Not Make Progress Toward EU Budget Deficit Goal
-- Monika Rozlal
-- 2010-07-13T13:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/poland-s-budget-draft-may-not-make-progress-toward-eu-budget-deficit-goal.html

          
          
             Poland’s budget proposal will fail
to put the European Union’s biggest eastern member on course to
meet the bloc’s deficit deadline as the government avoids
spending cuts before next year’s election, analysts said.  
 Prime Minister  Donald Tusk’s  cabinet will today announce a
2011 deficit target that’s little changed from this year’s, said
Malgorzata Starczewska-Krzysztoszek, a member of Tusk’s Advisory
Council. This year’s shortfall will be about 35 billion zloty
($10.8 billion), down from the 52.2 billion zloty first
announced thanks to increased revenue, Polish daily Parkiet
reported today, without saying how it obtained the figure.  
 The European Commission has given Poland until 2012 to meet
its deficit limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product.
Poland’s gap swelled to  7.1 percent  last year after the global
economic crisis depleted government revenue, forcing Tusk to
abandon a goal of adopting the euro in 2012.  
 “A 3 percent deficit by 2012 seems unrealistic,” said
 Monika Kurtek , an economist at Bank BPH in Warsaw, in a phone
interview. “Only a miracle can achieve this.”  
 The 2011 budget will be based on the government’s
assumption of 3.5 percent economic growth in the only EU member
that avoided a contraction last year. The deficit will narrow to
7 percent of GDP next year from 7.3 percent in 2010, the
European Commission said May 5.  
 Austerity Programs  
 Governments across Europe are embarking on the most severe
austerity programs in more than four decades to escape the
region’s sovereign debt crisis. The yield on Poland’s two-year
benchmark note rose to 4.79 percent, compared with 4.73
yesterday and 4.58 percent at the end of April, according to
Bloomberg prices. The zloty traded at 4.075 against the euro at
3 p.m. in Warsaw, down from 4.068 late yesterday.  
 Next year’s general election is undermining Tusk’s
commitment to spending cuts, said  Marcin Mrowiec , chief
economist at Bank Pekao SA.  
 “The election perspective will limit the introduction of
reforms, and threatens to keep the fiscal deficit above 6
percent of GDP next year,” Mrowiec said.  
 The government won’t allow pension cuts for employees in
the army or the courts, police or miners, Starczewska-
Krzysztoszek said in an interview. Tusk’s administration will
also block efforts to extend the retirement age for women to 65,
and won’t limit farmers’ access to contribution-free pensions,
he said. Farmers’ pensions cost the state 15 billion zloty
annually, or more than a third of the estimated deficit.  
 Labor Market, Prices  
 The 2011 budget assumes average wage growth of 1.9 percent,
with workers at companies with more than nine employees getting
4 percent, PAP newswire reported. Unemployment next year will
reach 9.9 percent by December, while price growth will average
2.3 percent in 2011, PAP said.  
 About 70 percent of state spending is fixed by law and
would require separate legislative sessions to change.  
 The government will introduce a rule to limit spending
growth, allowing discretionary expenditures to increase no more
than 1 percent above the inflation, he said.  
 “Poland doesn’t have a knife to its throat, so spending
cuts haven’t taken the form of radical programs,” Starczewska-
Krzysztoszek said. “The risk is growing, though, because
factors delaying fiscal improvement are piling up -- public
finances are in a difficult situation, economic growth is still
relatively weak; the government is reluctant to take austerity
measures to avoid political risk.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dorota Bartyzel  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net 
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        