-- Poland `Back to Normal' Indicates Interest Rates May Rise, Bratkowski Says
-- David McQuaid
-- 2010-07-12T05:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/poland-back-to-normal-indicates-interest-rates-may-rise-bratkowski-says.html

          
          
             Poland may need to raise interest
rates as the central bank shifts its focus to damping inflation
and reducing the country’s vulnerability to the European debt
crisis, policy maker  Andrzej Bratkowski  said.  
 Rate increases are more likely with the economy now
forecast to grow as much as 4 percent in 2011, Bratkowski, a
member of the bank’s Monetary Policy Council, said in a July 7
interview in Warsaw. Such growth may fuel inflation, a risk
increased by the “relatively weak” zloty, which probably won’t
have sustained gains for two or three quarters, he said.  
 “My view is that rate increases are much more probable,”
Bratkowski said. “Poland is back to a normal situation and can
conduct a normal, classical policy of stabilization.”  
 Narodowy Bank Polski has kept its seven-day reference rate
at a record low of 3.5 percent for the past 12 months, helping
Poland, the largest of the European Union’s eastern members,
avoid recession during the global financial crisis. The central
bank raised its forecasts for economic growth and inflation in a
 report  published July 2.  
 The main question about raising rates “is whether we must
decide now, to avoid falling behind the curve, or whether we can
afford to wait a little bit,” Bratkowski said.  
 The International Monetary Fund on July 8 raised its
forecast for global growth this year to 4.6 percent, the fastest
pace since 2007, and said central banks in emerging markets have
tightened monetary policy “appropriately.”  
 Changes Suggested  
 The Polish government, which faces a general election next
year, has pledged to cut the budget deficit to the EU limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product by 2012 from 6.9 percent this
year. Poland must roll over 278 billion zloty ($86.7 billion) of
debt in 2011 and 2012, up from 44.9 billion zloty this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 “We have an expansionary monetary policy and an
expansionary fiscal policy, and economic growth is nearing its
potential level,’ Bratkowski said. “That suggests certain
changes in monetary policy need to be made.”  
 Future rate increases may be bigger than the central bank’s
 previous practice  of moving in quarter-point increments. The
bank violated that tradition with 0.75 percentage-point cuts in
December 2008 and January 2009 to counter the effects of the
global slowdown.  
 That “small-steps” approach, which eschewed reacting to
currency swings and gave markets “advanced warning,” wasn’t
effective in curbing inflationary pressures, Bratkowski said.  
 ‘Decisive Moves’  
 “There’s an argument that you can improve policy
effectiveness through more decisive moves,” Bratkowski said.
“When you’re starting with rates so low and in such economic
conditions, the risk of overshooting is smaller.”  
 The Monetary Policy Council’s June 30 decision to drop an
inflation-risk assessment from its post-meeting statement, which
analysts had used as an indication of future rate moves, ushered
in a more “flexible” approach, Bratkowski said.  
 “It acknowledges that our view can change rather quickly
and therefore admits the possibility we may surprise the
market,” he said.  
 Bratkowski said another argument for tightening is that
Poland needs to control external borrowing with investors
concerned about the finances of EU governments and prone to
bouts of risk aversion.  
 “Higher risk aversion is going to be with us for a
protracted period,” he said. “That means countries dependent
on foreign financing, like Poland, will be exposed to a higher
risk of contagion each time new global problems appear.”  
 European Debt Concern  
 He noted that Poland’s  trade deficit  widened from a year
earlier in the February to April period, even as consumption
remained weak and investment fell.  
 “To me, this is a sign we can’t afford a quick economic
recovery fueled by domestic demand,” Bratkowski said.  
 Sustainable current-account deficits for a country like
 Poland  have narrowed from the 5 percent of GDP deemed safe
before the global crisis to between 2 percent and 3 percent
today, Bratkowski said.  
 “Anything wider and the moment some turbulence occurs
everyone will start looking at the external balances and the
payments schedule,” he said.  
 In addition, the zloty’s weakness requires the central bank
to be “more cautious and more restrictive,” because currency
fluctuations feed through rapidly to inflation, Bratkowski said.  
 ‘Serious Deterioration’  
 Since September 2008, when the failure of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. kicked off the global economic crisis, the Polish
currency has dropped 18 percent against the euro, the most among
26 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, except the
Icelandic krona.  
 Poland may put off rate increases if figures for second-
quarter gross domestic product, to be released Aug. 30, and
monthly indicators for the third quarter suggest “serious
deterioration” in the growth outlook.  
 The key to showing the economy is still accelerating would
be “even a slight pickup” in household consumption, along with
any sign that the decline in fixed investment, which tumbled 12
percent in the first quarter, is slowing, Bratkowski said.  
 “I don’t see the recovery gathering strength in Europe,
but in Poland it’s possible,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McQuaid  in Warsaw 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       A man exits the Central bank of Poland  
                       
                         
                           John Guillemin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A man exits the Central bank of Poland in Warsaw, on June 24, 2009. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A man exits the Central bank of Poland in Warsaw, on June 24, 2009. Photographer: John Guillemin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
