-- Polyus Gold Deal, U.K. Listing Plans Threatened by Kazakh Ruling, VTB Says
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-07-12T12:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/polyus-gold-welcomes-kazakh-assaubayev-probe-commits-to-reinvesting-funds.html

          
          
             A Kazakh government decision to
disallow  KazakhGold Group Ltd. ’s sale of shares to Russia’s  OAO
Polyus Gold  risks scuppering Polyus’s U.K. listing plans,
analysts at VTB Capital said.  
 Kazakhstan’s Industry Ministry annulled its previous
approval of a 2009 share transfer and ruled out the sale of
additional shares in a so-called reverse takeover, the ministry
said today in an e-mailed statement. KazakhGold said June 30 it
planned to take over its parent Polyus in a $9.4 billion deal.  
 The decision “adds to the uncertainty around the whole
deal,”  Alexander Pukhaev , an analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow,
said today in a report. “In the longer term, it might undermine
Polyus’s plans to attract a global player to develop its large
reserve base.”  
 KazakhGold’s proposal to acquire Polyus would create the
largest gold producer among the former Soviet republics. The new
entity would have a single listing on the London Stock Exchange,
allowing Polyus to re-domicile in Jersey, U.K., and access a
wider base of global investors as it seeks acquisitions.  
 The Kazakh government’s ruling follows a June 29
announcement by Polyus that it’s suing the Assaubayev family,
which sold it a controlling stake in KazakhGold last year.
Polyus alleges the Assaubayevs deceived it into making a partial
offer for KazakhGold by misrepresenting production and sales
revenue. The Assaubayev family said the claims were “without any
foundation.”  
 Shares Slide  
 Polyus  has dropped 3.8 percent in London trading over the
past two weeks and fell 1.6 percent to $26.18 a receipt as of
1:39 p.m. local time today.  
 Evgeny Ivanov , chief executive officer at Polyus and
chairman of KazakhGold, confirmed he had received a letter from
the Kazakh ministry annulling its earlier approval.  
 “The letter requests information on the value of the share
acquisition transactions from KazakhGold,” Ivanov said in an e-
mailed statement. The company “intends to provide all available
information requested.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        