-- Power Firms Threaten Delaware River Park With 200-Foot Towers: Commentary
-- Scott Kirkwood
-- 2010-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/power-firms-threaten-delaware-river-park-with-200-foot-towers-commentary.html

          
          
             In the 1930s, several cities along
the Delaware River proposed the construction of the largest dam
east of the Mississippi, at Tocks Island, upstream of the
Delaware Water Gap. The dam would generate electricity for the
growing cities of Philadelphia and New York, and the resulting
37-mile-long lake would provide water to their residents.  
 The project lay dormant for years, but a 1955 flood in the
region renewed interest in the proposal, and led the government
to start buying up land and seizing homeowners’ property in
preparation for the dam’s construction.  
 In 1960, the Army Corps of Engineers completed the plans,
and Congress approved the dam’s construction in 1962, after
record drought hit the Delaware Valley. But over time, ardent
protests from locals combined with funding challenges
exacerbated by the Vietnam War led the federal government to
table the project.  
 For decades, locals continued to fight for an official
decision scrapping the proposal. Finally, in September 1965,
Congress authorized the creation of the Delaware Water Gap
National Recreation Area, marking the final step in what many
consider an early victory for the environmental movement. The
Tocks Island Dam was officially de-authorized in 1992.  
 Now, 80 years after the first threat posed to the area’s
rolling hills and the meandering waters of the Delaware River,
energy needs are once again threatening to leave a permanent
scar.  
 River Valley  
 The Delaware Water Gap  could be the most popular national
park you’ve never heard of. Playing host to more than 5 million
people each year, it’s the eighth most visited unit of the
National Park System, due in part to its proximity to several
huge metropolitan areas.  
 Its mountain ridges and river valley contain streams,
waterfalls, diverse plants and wildlife, and traces of past
cultures, including significant American Indian artifacts and
sites. Recreation opportunities abound: Forty miles of the
middle Delaware River offer fishing, boating, canoeing and
swimming, and access to hiking, biking, picnicking, hunting and
auto touring.  
 But views throughout much of the park unit could change
substantially if two energy companies get their way.  Public
Service Electric & Gas  and  PPL Electric Utilities  are proposing
a serious upgrade to a smaller power line that predates the park
and winds its way through its southern half, crossing the river
near the current visitor center.  
 Above the Canopy  
 Eighty-foot towers that only occasionally rise above the
canopy of maple, ash and dogwood could soon be replaced by 200-
foot towers that would dwarf them. A narrow right-of-way would
expand to 300 feet to accommodate the two 500-kilovolt lines,
which might require special lighting or bright orange balls for
visibility. Asphalt roads would be constructed to provide
constant access to what would become a main artery for coal- and
nuclear-based power delivered to New York.  
 “This is the longest undammed river in the Eastern United
States, and it offers a relatively rural and quiet pastoral
experience for people floating down it, but these impacts would
be dramatic,” says Delaware Water Gap Superintendent John
Donahue. “You could potentially see the towers from all kinds of
places in the park. In a cumulative sense, it’s not just this
single project but everybody who says they ‘need’ to have a
bridge or a road or a gas line through the park. If all of those
groups were to get what they wanted, you might as well just de-
authorize the park. People talk about death by a thousand cuts,
this would be more of a gaping wound.”  
 Trail in the Way  
 Pam Underhill, superintendent of the Appalachian Trail,
which traces a line through the recreation area, echoes those
thoughts: “Unfortunately, the  Appalachian Trail  is in the way
of every project that aims to go east to west -- this is one of
five transmission lines on deck right now -- so the potential
cumulative impact of these projects threatens to undo all the
work that we’ve done to provide some sort of wilderness
experience for people in this part of the country,” she says.  
 Underhill adds: “We recognize we can’t be the eastern
United States’ version of the Great Wall of China; as society
seeks to balance its needs, there are probably going to be
several new projects that cross the trail. We just want to have
a say in where and how these lines cross the trail, to minimize
the impact and preserve the experience on the 2,100 miles
stretching from Maine to Georgia.”  
 Shortest Distance  
 For obvious reasons, the power companies’ preferred
alternative is to simply traverse the corridor already
established in the park -- to cover the shortest distance
between two points, and to remove the need to purchase privately
owned land or claim eminent domain.  
 Some have suggested burying the power lines or using new
technology that would increase the carrying capacity of
transmission wires on the current towers, but those options are
more expensive.  
 Of course, none of this is the park’s problem. Ultimately,
the Park Service has the authority to grant the permits that
would allow the utilities to expand the right of way and begin
construction along the route. Recognizing that the decision is
not entirely up to the park itself, PSE&G and PPL are already
lobbying officials in Washington to bring pressure from the top
down.  
 In three public meetings held in the region, nearly every
participant opposed the transmission lines, and park staff
received more than 6,500 comments from around the nation.
(Members of the National Parks Conservation Association can sign
up to receive ParkLines alerts and offer their  thoughts  in the
ongoing process.)  
 Bald Eagles  
 “Floating the Delaware River through this region is an
incredible experience,” says Bryan Faehner, NPCA’s associate
director for park use. “It’s a beautiful river valley with bald
eagles, black bears and other wildlife. To be paddling the river
and see these enormous power lines in the distance, then float
underneath them not only affects the scenery and the visual
experience, but you would actually hear the buzz and crackling
of the power lines themselves. The Park Service’s 2006
Management Policies call on park staff to not only protect the
parks from unacceptable impacts but to make things better, so
the idea that the agency would approve this project is a worst-
case scenario that will embolden other energy companies across
the country. Whatever unfolds at the Delaware Water Gap could
have national implications that could be disastrous, and might
put a lot of park land at threat.”  
 In recent years, park supporters helped nix proposals for
power lines through the Upper Delaware Scenic and Recreational
River and Minidoka National Historic Site, and around Joshua
Tree National Park, but others are sure to follow. Several Civil
War sites in the East already have power lines on adjacent land,
making it nearly impossible to imagine the landscape 150 years
ago.  
 ‘Fountains of Inspiration’  
 “Every year, more than 5 million people come here to
refresh their spirits in this chunk of 70,000 acres of forest
and 40 miles of river -- a place where they can go to enjoy
themselves, restore their spirits, and remember what it means to
be a creature of the earth, says Donahue. “When I think about
the potential threat we’re dealing with, I remember the words of
John Muir, who said, ‘These preserves are not just fountains of
timber and water, but fountains of inspiration for mankind.’”  
 (Scott Kirkwood is editor-in-chief of National Parks
magazine, where this article originally ran. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 For Related News and Information:
Top arts and lifestyle stories: MUSE <GO>
Environmental stories: ENV <GO>
Energy stories: NRG <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The Delaware River in the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area. Two energy companies -- Public Service Electric & Gas (PSE&G) and PPL Electric Utilities -- are proposing a serious upgrade to a smaller power line that predates the park, and winds its way through its southern half, crossing the river near the current visitor center. Photographer: Bryan Katz via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Delaware Water Gap  
                       
                         
                           Karen Minot Illustration via Bloomberg 
                         
                         A map of the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area. Two energy companies -- Public Service Electric & Gas (PSE&G) and PPL Electric Utilities -- are proposing a serious upgrade to a smaller power line that predates the park, and winds its way through its southern half, crossing the river near the current visitor center. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A map of the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area. Two energy companies -- Public Service Electric & Gas (PSE&G) and PPL Electric Utilities -- are proposing a serious upgrade to a smaller power line that predates the park, and winds its way through its southern half, crossing the river near the current visitor center. Source: Karen Minot Illustration via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Delaware River in the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area. Two energy companies -- Public Service Electric & Gas (PSE&G) and PPL Electric Utilities -- are proposing a serious upgrade to a smaller power line that predates the park, and winds its way through its southern half, crossing the river near the current visitor center. Photographer: Bryan Katz via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Delaware River in the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area. Two energy companies -- Public Service Electric & Gas (PSE&G) and PPL Electric Utilities -- are proposing a serious upgrade to a smaller power line that predates the park, and winds its way through its southern half, crossing the river near the current visitor center. Photographer: Bryan Katz via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
