-- Putin's Price Curbs Spur Bond Profits for First Time as Stock Values Sink
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-13T15:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/putin-s-price-curbs-spur-bond-profits-for-first-time-as-stock-values-sink.html

          
          
             Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s drive to slow inflation is making government bonds
profitable for the first time on record while curbing returns in
the world’s cheapest major equity market.  
 Yields on ruble-denominated government bonds surpassed the
inflation rate for the first time since at least 2005 last
quarter, with the gap averaging 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, based on JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  GBI-EM Russia
Index . Yields were 390 below the  consumer-price index  on average
the past five years, leaving holders with negative real returns.  
 Putin is pressuring raw-materials producers and utilities
to slow price gains even after the inflation rate fell to a 12-
year low last month. Shares of  OAO Raspadskaya , Russia’s largest
supplier of coal to steelmakers, sank to the lowest in eight
months last week as the Anti-Monopoly Service began probing coal
prices. The Micex Index’s  valuation  slid 25 percent in 2010 amid
concern the push to curb prices will limit  profits , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg and UralSib Financial Corp.  
 “What’s good for the economy and the government’s fiscal
position, and therefore what’s good for the bond market, is much
less positive for a big portion of the equity market,” said
 Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib, the Moscow-based
lender owned by billionaire  Nikolai Tsvetkov . “The lowest
valuations are in companies that are directly subject to price
controls or where investors believe there’s a risk the
government will pressure to keep pricing down.”  
 ‘Buying Opportunity’  
 UralSib reduced its rating on shares of Russian utility
Federal Grid Co. this year because of smaller-than-estimated
tariff increases, Weafer said. Russian government bonds offer a
“buying opportunity,”  Dmitry Dudkin , UralSib’s head of fixed-
income research in Moscow, said in an interview.  
 The extra yield on Russian government bonds over the
inflation rate reached a peak of 83 basis points on May 10 and
was 21 yesterday, compared with a 538 basis-point premium on
Brazil  bonds , 317 in Poland, 30 in Turkey and zero in China,
according to JPMorgan indexes.  
 Russia’s government has been able to sell bonds yielding
less than the inflation rate because state-controlled
institutions including the national pension fund are required to
buy the debt and overseas investors purchased the securities on
bets the ruble will appreciate.  
 Vnesheconombank, the state-owned manager of the majority of
Russian pension savings, must invest at least 50 percent of the
assets in the country’s sovereign or government-guaranteed
bonds, according to the investment declaration posted on its
website. Moscow-based VEB, as the bank is known, had 723.4
billion rubles ($23.5 billion) in pension assets under
management, including 473 billion rubles in sovereign bonds, as
of June 30, according to its  website .  
 Ruble Volatility  
 Ruble bonds returned 44 percent in dollar terms from the
end of 2005 through the first half of 2008 as the price of oil,
the country’s chief export, surged more than 120 percent,
driving Russia’s currency up 22 percent against the greenback.
Crude futures contracts in New York climbed to $140 a barrel
from $61.04.  
 The ruble and domestic bonds plunged during the next nine
months as the global financial crisis spurred a record slump in
oil and capital flight from emerging markets, before rebounding
as governments around the world cut interest rates and enacted
economic stimulus packages.  
 The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 30.73 per dollar in
today’s trading, bringing its gain in the past year to 6.7
percent. The currency may weaken to 30.8859 per dollar in three
months, based on non-deliverable forwards, which provide a guide
to expectations for currency movements as they allow foreign
investors and companies to fix the exchange rate at a specific
level in the future.  
 Dollar Bonds  
 The yield on JPMorgan’s GBI-EM Russia Index has climbed 12
basis points from this year’s low of 5.88 percent on April 13.
The yield was little changed at 6.01 percent yesterday.  
 Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 and sold in April rose
today, pushing the yield down 13 basis points to 5.210 percent.
Credit-default swaps linked to Russian debt were little changed
at 181 basis points. The contracts, which investors use to hedge
against losses or speculate on creditworthiness, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower reneges on its obligations.  
 The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian dollar
debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell three basis points to 245
basis points, according to  JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index . The gap
compares with 161 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 211 for
Brazil, which is rated at Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, two
steps lower than Russia and Mexico.  
 Inflation Slows  
 While yields are climbing, Russia’s inflation rate has
fallen to 5.8 percent from 11.9 percent a year ago, helped by
lower consumer spending during the second half of 2009 as the
economy fell into its worst slump since the fall of the Soviet
Union in 1991.  
 Putin, 57, said last month that slowing inflation is the
nation’s “most important strategic goal.” The government plans
to boost competition and restrain price increases by
“infrastructure monopolies” including utilities, he said in
Moscow.  
 Raspadskaya shares fell on July 8 to the lowest level since
November after the Anti-Monopoly Service said the company, along
with  Evraz Group SA  and OAO Severstal, will be investigated on
whether they charge local buyers different prices than overseas
customers.  
 Supplying domestic consumers of coal, metal products and
iron ore should take a priority over exports, Putin said on May
31. He also ordered the government to determine “fair prices”
for metals to discourage steelmakers from what he called
unjustified increases.  Alexander Andreev , deputy chief executive
officer at Raspadskaya, declined to comment.  
 Brokerage Downgrades  
 Economy Minister  Elvira Nabiullina  said last month the
government plans to lower electricity tariff increases in 2011.
The announcement prompted Citigroup Inc. to cut shares of
Federal Grid to “hold” from “buy,” while Morgan Stanley
lowered its rating to “underweight” from “equal-weight.”  
 Natural gas producer  OAO Novatek  was cut to “sell” from
“neutral” by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on June 23 after the
bank reduced its forecast for gas-price increases to 15 percent
from 30 percent, citing the Russian government’s “shift in
focus from structural reforms to managing inflation.”  
 The Micex index has declined 1.9 percent this year and is
trading at 8.4 times earnings, down from 11.2 at the start of
the year and the lowest level relative to the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index  since March 2009, according to monthly data
compiled by Bloomberg. Even after a 7.2 percent rally since July
1, the Micex has the lowest price-earnings ratio among the
world’s 25 biggest stock markets.  
 ‘Civilized Level’  
 “It’s back to USSR style,” said  Gregory Klumov , chief
investment officer at Everest Asset Management in Moscow. “The
government wants to control prices in exchange for loans it
provided last year and thus there is a lack of foreign investors
willing to participate in equity capital.”  
 Bringing inflation down to a “civilized level” will allow
banks to extend credit at “normal” rates, spur mortgage loans
and “ease the lives of many people,” President  Dmitry Medvedev 
said at the annual St. Petersburg International Economic Forum
last month.  
 Putin has “repeatedly” said it’s important to find a
“golden mean” for prices that allows companies to carry out
their investment plans without causing “negative social
consequences,”  Dmitry Peskov , the prime minister’s spokesman,
said in a phone interview from Moscow yesterday.  
 A falling inflation rate is likely to boost demand for
Russia’s bonds, said  Elena Kolchina , head of fixed income
products at Renaissance Asset Managers in Moscow.  
 “With inflation now being a top priority for the
government it can stay low going forward,” Kolchina said. “It
should keep demand for bonds high.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin speaks during a news conference. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
