-- QVC Italy to Challenge Mediaset With New Home-Shopping Channel This Year
-- Chiara Remondini
-- 2010-07-12T06:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/qvc-italy-to-challenge-mediaset-with-new-home-shopping-channel-this-year.html

          
          
             QVC Inc. , the home-shopping channel
broadcaster owned by  Liberty Media Corp.,  will start a service
in Italy on Oct. 1 to challenge Mediaset SpA’s  Mediashopping 
network.  
 QVC will broadcast live 17 hour a day on digital
terrestrial platforms from its studios near Milan, Steve
Hofmann, chief executive officer of  QVC Italia , said in an
interview. The company will reach about 17 million families at
first, the biggest launch in terms of homes reached for QVC, he
said. The network will also be aired on  Sky Italia SpA , a
satellite broadcaster owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp.   
 “From a retailer perspective, we saw a gap in the Italian
market that we think we can nicely fit,” Hofmann said.
“Between the small, independent retailers and the top, luxury
chains we see space for us in the middle.”  
 QVC reaches  more than 98 million U.S. households and more
than 180 million homes worldwide via cable and satellite,
according to its website. The broadcaster, founded in 1986,
sells products including clothing, jewelry, electronics and home
products. QVC, which has yearly sales of about $7.5 billion,
also broadcasts in the U.K., Germany and Japan.  
 QVC is investing about 100 million euros ($126 million) and
hiring 500 employees for its Italian business, Hofmann said. He
forecast QVC Italia will break even at the operating level in
its third year.  
 ‘Unique Products’  
 “We’ll have strong, well-known international and Italian
brands as well as unique products on sale,” the CEO said. “Our
competitors are retailers, not just television shopping
companies.”  
 Mediaset , the Broadcaster of Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , controls Mediashopping, which sells merchandise
through a digital TV channel and via phone, catalogues and the
Internet. Revenue at Mediashopping jumped 73 percent to 71.6
million euros last year, leading to break-even a year earlier
than planned. It had more than 2 million customers last year.  
 “Finally also in Italy the mail order market has reached a
level of quality that has existed in other western countries for
years,” Rodrigo Cipriani, chief of Mediashopping, said in
March.  
 “Mediashopping has started to break the mould of TV sales
in Italy,” Hofmann said. “Having two strong, credible
operators is better for both of us and helps establish
credibility.”  
 The CEO said QVC is “constantly exploring opportunities”
for starting channels and is looking at countries such as China,
France and Canada even if nothing has been decided yet.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        