-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Increase for a Fourth Straight Day Before Auction
-- Cordell Eddings
-- 2010-07-12T21:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/treasuries-are-little-changed-after-u-s-sells-35-billion-in-3-year-notes.html

          
          
             Treasury 10-year  note  yields rose
for a fourth straight day, the longest streak since December, as
the U.S. prepared to sell $21 billion of the debt tomorrow, the
second of three note and bond auctions totaling $69 billion.  
 The  benchmark  note fell after earlier gaining and pushing
down yields the most in almost a week on an intraday basis as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped as much as 0.7 percent
before erasing losses. The U.S. sold $35 billion of three-year
notes at a record low yield and will auction $13 billion of 30-
year bonds on July 14.  
 “The market is waiting to see how the rest of the supply
goes and what direction it takes,” said  Jason Rogan , director
of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a New
York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “The test for
this week will be the performance of stocks and how well the
auctions go given the amount of supply coming.”  
 The 10-year  note  yield rose less than 1 basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 3.06 percent at 5:14 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. Earlier it fell as much as 5
basis points, the most since July 6, to touch 3.01 percent. The
3.5 percent security due May 2020 traded at 103 23/32. The  yield 
on the current three-year note increased 2 basis points to 1.03
percent.  
 The three-year securities sold today drew a yield of 1.055
percent, in line with the 1.053 percent average forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Federal Reserve’s 18
primary dealers. The previous record low yield at a three-year
note auction was 1.2 percent at an offering in January 2009.  
 ‘Paltry Yield Levels’  
 “It seems likely that there will come a point when the
investment community is no longer willing to wave in Treasuries
at such paltry yield levels, but with the list of worries
seeming to lengthen with each passing day, I doubt that the
’tipping point’ will come any time soon,”  Kevin Giddis , head of
fixed-income sales, trading and research at brokerage firm
Morgan Keegan Inc. in Memphis, Tennessee, wrote in a note to
clients before the auction.  
 The sale’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of notes offered, was 3.20,
versus an average of 3.06 for the previous 10 auctions.  
 Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 40.6 percent of the notes today,
compared with an average of 52.3 percent for the past 10 sales.
Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place their
bids directly with the Treasury, bought 14.3 percent, compared
with 16.3 percent at the last sale. Primary dealers purchased
45.1 percent, the most since May 2009.  
 ‘Further Concession’  
 “The market is implying that there needs to be further
concession this week,” said  Michael Pond , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Barclays Plc, which as a primary
dealer must bid at Treasury sales. “It does raise the question:
how much does the 30-year need to back up to come down?”  
 Today’s auction was the third straight three-year offering
whose size was reduced. The Treasury sold $70 billion in 3, 10-
and 30-year securities last month, down from $78 billion in May.  
 European finance ministers met today in Brussels to discuss
how much to disclose about the stress tests being conducted on
banks to see whether they could withstand losses if the region’s
debt crisis worsens. Standard & Poor’s maintained its negative
outlook on Britain’s top credit rating, saying its projections
for the economy are less optimistic than those in last month’s
emergency budget.  
 ‘Weak Economy’  
 “The fundamental backdrop is still a weak economy, benign
inflation and sovereign concerns that haven’t left,” said
 Thomas Tucci , head of U.S. government bond trading in New York
at Royal Bank of Canada, one of the 18 primary dealers that
trade with the Federal Reserve. “These are all risks that will
keep a bid to the market.”  
 The  MSCI World  Index declined as much as 0.5 percent and
gained as much as 0.2 percent before ending the day little
changed.  
 Fed Bank of Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker  said any
consideration by U.S. central bankers of further monetary easing
“is very far away.”  
 “I’m comfortable with rates where they are now,” Lacker
said to reporters today at the opening of an exhibit at the
Richmond bank. “You have some surges, some slower periods. It’s
just going to be a choppy recovery.”  
 Traders reduced bets the Fed will raise the benchmark
interest rate, which has been at a record low range of zero to
0.25 percent since 2008, by its December meeting, according to
futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange. The chances fell to 14
percent yesterday, from 27 percent a month ago.  
 The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, narrowed to 1.84 percentage points from
this year’s high of 2.49 percentage points reached in January.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        