-- Rio Gains on Sao Paulo as Funds Seek `Sexiest' Beaches, Batista
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-07-12T17:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/rio-gains-on-sao-paulo-as-hedge-funds-flock-to-sexiest-beaches-batista.html

          
          
             Gartmore Investment Management
Ltd.’s  Christopher Palmer  needed only a day in Rio de Janeiro to
scout for investment opportunities while visiting Brazil six
years ago. Now half a week in the city isn’t enough.  
 A half a century after losing its status as Brazil’s
capital, Rio is becoming an engine of Latin America’s largest
economy. The city lured at least two dozen hedge funds in the
past decade as well as the nation’s leading oil producers, the
2014 World Cup and the 2016 summer Olympics.  
 Governor  Sergio Cabral  forecasts the state of Rio will need
as much as $90 billion in investment through 2013 for the
expansion of the shipbuilding, iron, steel and nuclear power
industries, led by projects from billionaire  Eike Batista . Oil
producers and  mining  companies helped double state exports in
the first five months of the year, a growth rate three times
faster than the nation as a whole.  
 “It’s in the midst of a major transformation,” said
Palmer, Gartmore’s head of global developing markets overseeing
about $5 billion in London. “Rio has come back into the fold
because of the Olympics and the development of the oil and gas
industry.”  
 The lights of Rio’s landmark Christ the Redeemer statue
were turned back on last month after being covered with
scaffolding for four months in a 7-million-reais ($3.92 million)
renovation. On June 30, the government inaugurated a 65-meter
(213 feet) elevator to connect residents of a cluster of
hillside shantytowns, known as favelas, to the city’s newest
subway stop as part of a  campaign  to improve security and
transportation for the poor.  
 ‘Virtuous Cycle’  
 “It’s becoming a virtuous cycle,” said  Carlos Langoni , a
former central bank president and finance chief of the
organizing committee for the 2014 World Cup soccer games.
“They’ve pacified favelas you would’ve thought were impossible
to occupy. Real estate prices have surged, Rio’s seeing more
royalties from oil production and it finally has good
politicians.”  
 Industrial production in the region of Rio rose 1.9 percent
in the year through March, compared with a decline of 0.3
nationwide, according to the national statistics agency.  
 Exports in the state more than doubled to $7.9 billion this
year through May, compared with the same period a year ago,
according to the Trade Ministry. Exports nationwide increased 30
percent, the data show.  
 Higher production has helped the unemployment rate in Rio
state drop to 5.9 percent in April from 10.5 percent in the same
month in 2002, according to the country’s statistics agency. The
jobless rate was 7.7 percent in Sao Paulo state in April and 7.3
percent for Brazil, the data show.  
 Batista’s Workforce  
 Batista’s  EBX Group Ltda., the holding company for his five
Rio-based companies, increased its workforce fivefold since 2006
to 2,000 employees. State-run oil producer  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA , Brazil’s biggest company, has hired 22,000 employees in the
past six years, mostly in Rio, and plans to add 6,000 more by
2013 as part of a $224 billion investment plan, the biggest in
the global oil industry, according to the company’s press
department.  
 Rio property values have risen as much as 47 percent in a
year, according to statistics from the real estate union.
Homicides have fallen 31 percent in May from a year earlier to a
record low of 363. Vehicle theft is down 30 percent and
robberies of pedestrians fell 12 percent, according to data from
Rio’s institute of public safety.  
 Oil Cash  
 Economic strides may not be enough for Rio to supplant Sao
Paulo as a corporate center, Langoni said. Four hundred
kilometers (250 miles) to the southwest, Sao Paulo is the
nation’s hub for the banking, automobile and agriculture
industries. And its 902.8 billion reais in gross domestic
product is three times bigger than the state of Rio’s.  
 The influx of cash from oil royalties may also come to a
halt. In a bill approved by the senate, Brazilian regions that
don’t produce oil would get a bigger share of revenue to the
detriment of Rio, Brazil’s biggest oil producing state. Non-oil-
producers may see royalties increase by as much as 26 percentage
points, according to the bill.  
 Brazil’s three biggest banks by market value --  Itau
Unibanco  Holding SA,  Banco Bradesco SA  and  Banco Santander
Brasil SA  -- have headquarters in Sao Paulo, the nation’s
largest city.  
 Banks Favor Sao Paulo  
 Banco BTG Pactual SA, based in Rio, added 29 employees to
operations in Sao Paulo, more than double the number hired in
Rio since billionaire  Andre Esteves  bought back the investment
bank from UBS AG in September 2009. The bank’s Rio operations
have 578 employees, while Sao Paulo has 358, according an e-mail
from the company’s press department.  
 While Rio may not be luring banks, the city is becoming
synonymous with the nation’s hedge fund industry.  
 Ipanema, whose beach was named the “world’s sexiest” by
the Travel Channel in 2008, and Leblon have lured more than a
dozen hedge funds. Of the more than 70 independent asset
management firms in Brazil, about 60 percent are based in Rio,
half of which are less than 10 years old, according to
Economatica data compiled by Rio-based hedge fund  Leblon 
Equities Gestao de Recursos Ltda.  
 Arminio Fraga , former central bank director and one-time
fund manager for billionaire  George Soros’s  Soros Fund
Management LLC, said he started his hedge fund in Leblon eight
years ago because its economic universities provide a talented
pool of traders and he can also work and live near the beach.  
 Fraga’s Base  
 “My business doesn’t depend on being in Sao Paulo or New
York,” said Fraga, a 52-year-old Carioca, as people from Rio
are known. “I live near the office and I work a lot, so I waste
little time and have a great quality of life.”  
 Fraga’s  Gavea  Investimentos Ltda. employs 110 people and
has $5.8 billion under management.  
 Gilberto Sayao , former co-owner of Rio-based investment
bank Banco Pactual SA, set up his private equity and hedge fund
last year in Leblon to make infrastructure investments. The firm
has about $2.4 billion under management.  
 Rio’s revival can be traced to the 2006 election of
Governor Cabral, said  Andre Urani , an economics professor at the
city’s federal university and author of “Trails to Rio,” a
book about the city’s ascent from what he calls a “lost
generation” of economic development. Urani said he isn’t
affiliated with any political party.  
 Cabral’s ‘Partnership’  
 “The priority has been cleaning up the house,” Cabral
wrote in an e-mail response to questions. “Rio is no longer the
ugly duckling of the republic. We developed a new partnership
politics in our state. I have no doubt that the changes made in
our government will keep showing results in the medium and long
term.”  
 For decades before Cabral, Rio politicians shunned private
enterprise and drug-related violence led entrepreneurs and
educated Cariocas to flee to Sao Paulo, Urani said. Rio’s
sinking importance in Brazil finance was exemplified in 2002
when the Sao Paulo derivatives bourse bought the Rio stock
exchange, the nation’s oldest.  
 “The city had lost its identity: It was no longer the
capital, the industries left, the financial sector left and a
lot of the state-owned companies left once they were
privatized,” Urani said in a telephone interview. “The most
important thing Cabral did above all was the inauguration of a
new politics, molding together various parts of the government
with the private sector.”  
 Clean-up Campaign  
 Rio is also luring more commerce after its mayor,  Eduardo Paes , began a so-called shock and order initiative last year.
The city took back 10 favelas in 27 central neighborhoods from
control of drug-dealers since December 2008 and set up small
police departments, called UPPs, according to the state’s
security secretariat.  
 The clean-up continues as Rio prepares for the Olympics.
The Christ the Redeemer statue, the 30-meter tall monument
perched on top of Corcovado mountain that was built in 1931, had
300 liters (79.3 gallons) of rain water drained from each of its
outstretched arms.  
 Rio inaugurated an entrance to a subway stop last month
that will use four elevators to transport about 20,000 residents
up and down the hill to their homes that tower over Rio’s
Ipanema and Copacabana neighborhoods. Last year, police forces
invaded the favela, retaking control from drug traffickers.  
 Property Market  
 Economic advances and lower crime are benefitting the real
estate market. A two-bedroom apartment in Copacabana and Ipanema
rose 47 percent and 18 percent, respectively, in one year
through May, according to  Secovi-Rio , the state’s real estate
union.  
 In Ipanema, a two-bedroom apartment costs an average of
672,438 reais ($381,439), while in Copacabana it sells for
471,723 reais ($267,584), the data shows.  
 “There are waiting lists and, basically, if you want to
buy something there you’re going to pay a very high price or no
one is going to sell it,” said  Marcus Vinicius , director of
Julio Bogoricin, a real-estate agency that focuses on luxury
real estate in these neighborhoods.  
 Among the most important developments to benefit the region
has been the rise of Batista, 52, whose fortune the past year
more than tripled to $27 billion, making him the eighth-richest
person, according to Forbes magazine.  
 Batista’s  LLX Logistica SA , part of the EBX group, plans to
build the Acu port, a Manhattan-sized complex on Rio’s coast
that will require as much as $50 billion in investment, Batista
told reporters in New York on March 31. The project will include
a thermoelectric power plant, cement facility and auto
producers.  
 Batista’s Focus  
 “We couldn’t realistically base our companies in any other
city because this is where the qualified employees are in the
sectors we operate,” said  Paulo Gouvea , who has worked with
Batista for more than a decade and is the head of corporate
finance at EBX. “Rio is becoming an interesting mixture of
Boston with Houston.”  
 Palmer of Gartmore said visiting Batista was one of the
main reasons for his trip to Rio in January.  
 “Eike has his finger on the pulse of what is changing the
country,” said Palmer after breakfast at the Copacabana Palace
hotel on Rio’s beachfront.  
 Jim O’Neill , the chief global economist for Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., said he’s also noticed the change in Rio. On his
last trip to South America in February, O’Neill skipped Sao
Paulo and headed to Rio.  
 He indulged in its world-renowned Carnival and participated
in a panel discussion for the opening of Brazil’s first research
center for the so-called BRICs, the largest emerging markets of
Brazil, Russia, India and China. The research will be done by
PUC-Rio, the Catholic university that has supplied finance
ministers and central bankers in Brazil for decades.  
 “It is a city regaining interest,” said O’Neill, who
coined the BRIC term in 2001. The city is “more alive and has
more energy,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Rio de Janeiro lured at least two dozen hedge funds in the past decade. Photographer: Vanderlei Almeida/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
