-- Romanian Recession Will Deepen on Government Cuts, BOA Merrill Forecasts
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-07-12T13:19:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/romanian-recession-will-deepen-on-government-cuts-boa-merrill-forecasts.html

          
          
             Romania’s recession this year will
be deeper than previously seen as the government cut spending
and raised the value-added tax to curb a swelling budget
deficit, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said.  
 BOA Merrill lowered its forecast for the European Union
member’s 2010 economic performance to a 1.3 percent contraction
from a previous forecast for a decline of 0.7 percent,  Mai Doan ,
a London-based analyst at the bank, wrote in an e-mailed note.
The economy shrank a record 7.1 percent in 2009.  
 “As spending cuts and a VAT hike become effective in the
second half of 2010, while euro-zone demand slows into 2011,
there is little support for economic growth in Romania,” Doan
wrote. “Private consumption and investment continued to
subtract from annual growth” in the first quarter, “a
reflection of high unemployment and stagnant lending.”  
 Prime Minister Emil Boc’s  administration, raised the value-
added tax as of July 1 by 5 percentage points to 24 percent and
made further cuts to public-sector wages to secure further
disbursements from a  International Monetary Fund -led 20 billion-
euro ($25 billion) bailout program. The IMF backs a budget-
deficit target of 6.8 percent of gross domestic product this
year.  
 ‘Fiscal Slippage’  
 Even with the additional measures, “fiscal slippage” is
likely to occur, according to Doan, who forecasts the budget
shortfall at 7.3 percent of GDP. Political wrangling over the
cutbacks risk delays in unlocking further installments of the
loan, threatening the stability of financing, Doan wrote.  
 “Financing in the short term is covered with the fifth
disbursement from the IMF and EU, but remains a concern in the
medium term,” Doan said. “Continued blocks by the opposition
and challenges at the Constitutional Court against austerity
measures risk delaying future IMF aid, with early elections a
possible scenario.” A materialization of that risk would also
make it difficult for the country to borrow in international
bond markets, Doan said.  
 The value-added tax increase will push  the inflation rate 
above 8 percent by year-end and halt the central bank’s interest
rate cuts until next year, according to Doan. Inflation was
unchanged at 4.4 percent in June, a month before the tax
increase, the Bucharest-based statistical office said today.  
 The central bank’s inflation target is 3.5 percent, with a
percentage point divergence allowed on either side. The
 Banca Nationala a Romaniei  left the  monetary policy rate  at a
record-low 6.25 percent on June 30. While central bank Governor
 Mugur Isarescu  said there’s “no reason for the interest rate to
react” to the value-added tax increase, Bank of America Merrill
predicts it will prevent any reduction to borrowing costs until
next year.  
 The central bank’s “hands are tied,” according to Doan.
“The easing cycle has likely come to a halt as the VAT hike
will likely see inflation overshoot the target, but further cuts
may resume in 2011 to counterbalance fiscal austerity and
support economic growth,” she wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        