-- Rupee Weakens as Report Shows India's Factory Output Growth Slowed in May
-- Anil Varma
-- 2010-07-12T12:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/rupee-rises-as-euro-s-gains-may-encourage-investors-to-buy-indian-assets.html

          
          
             India’s rupee fell, snapping a two-
day gain, on concern a slower pace of expansion in  industrial
output  may diminish the allure of the higher-yielding currency.  
 Factory production rose 11.5 percent in May from a year
earlier, unexpectedly slowing from a 16.5 percent growth the
previous month, a government report showed today. The
deceleration damped speculation the central bank will raise
interest rates by more than a quarter-percentage point at its
policy meeting on July 27, said  Vikas Babu , a currency trader at
state-owned Andhra Bank in Mumbai.  
 “The weaker industrial data has dented sentiment toward
the rupee because of reduced interest-rate differential
advantage,” Babu said.  
 The rupee dropped 0.2 percent to 46.7775 per dollar as of
the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It advanced 0.3 percent last week.  
 The  central bank  on July 2 raised borrowing costs for the
third time this year after wholesale price inflation accelerated
to 10.16 percent in May. The  reverse-repurchase rate , or the
rate at which the central bank absorbs cash from banks, is now 4
percent and the repurchase rate 5.5 percent.  
 The median estimate of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 16.2 percent increase in industrial output.  
 State Bank of India, the nation’s largest bank, will review
its lending and deposit rates after the Reserve Bank of India’s
policy meeting later this month, Chairman  Om Prakash Bhatt  told
reporters in Mumbai today.  
 Offshore forwards indicated the Indian currency will trade
at 47.35 to the dollar in three months, compared with
expectations of 47.28 at the end of last week. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 V. Ramakrishnan  in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
 Anil Varma  in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        