-- Russia to Boost Debt Sales, Considers Eurobond After Falling Behind Target
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-12T11:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/russia-to-boost-debt-sales-considers-eurobond-after-falling-behind-target.html

          
          
             Russia will step up sales of
domestic debt and may offer its first ruble-denominated
Eurobonds after falling behind its plan for raising 1.2 trillion
rubles ($38.9 billion) this year.  
 Central bank data shows the government sold 212.5 billion
rubles of bonds, or 18 percent of its target, in the first half
and may turn to international buyers, Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin  said in a July 9 interview. Russia issued in April
its first bonds to money managers outside the country since
defaulting in 1998 and doesn’t plan a second foreign-currency
sale, he said.  
 “We plan to increase our borrowing on the domestic
market,” Pankin, 52, said in the interview in the lower house
of parliament in Moscow. “We are analyzing market conditions
and legal questions” for a ruble bond sale overseas, he said.  
 The government is behind target after yields rose on
concern the sovereign debt crisis in Greece, Portugal and Spain
would spread to emerging markets. Russia’s 11.2 percent ruble
bonds due December 2014 yielded 6.76 percent on July 9. They
rose as high as 7.67 percent on May 6 from 6.46 percent on April
13, the lowest level since their September sale.  
 “The volatility is high and it’s hard to make any long-
term plans,” Pankin said. “The situation was very favorable in
March and April and everyone thought it would remain stable in
May and June, but then the events in Greece happened, and in
effect the second half of May saw the market collapse.”  
 Bigger Premium  
 Russia stepped up borrowing as the worst economic slump
since the collapse of the Soviet Union led the government to
post its first budget deficit in a decade last year at 5.9
percent of gross domestic product. The government expects the
budget gap will be 5.4 percent this year. Russia will be unable
to raise the funds the government said it needs to cover the
deficit from the domestic market alone, according to ING Groep
NV, Bank of Moscow and Renaissance Capital.  
 “They won’t be able to place the full amount this year,”
said  Leonid Ignatiev , a fixed-income analyst at Bank of Moscow,
controlled by the capital city’s government. “The Finance
Ministry will have to offer an even bigger premium to the
market, especially as the outlook for the domestic debt market
may significantly worsen in the fall.”  
 The government may sell as much as 500 billion rubles of
local bonds, including 100 billion rubles to refinance existing
notes, according to Bank of Moscow. Investors may be willing to
buy a maximum of 600 billion rubles, said  Konstantin Kostrub ,
head of fixed-income trading at ING Groep NV in Moscow.  
 ‘Too Much’  
 “To borrow 1 trillion rubles they have to borrow 40
billion rubles to 50 billion rubles every week until the end of
the year and this is too much,” said  Nikolai Podguzov , a fixed-
income analyst at Renaissance Capital in Moscow.  
 Russia may have to offer investors a premium of as much as
1.5 percentage points over non-deliverable forwards to sell the
remaining portion, ING’s Kostrub said. Three-year NDFs are at
5.14 percent, compared with the 6.23 percent yield on federal
notes, called OFZ, due January 2013.  
 NDFs provide a guide to expectations of currency movements
as they allow foreign investors and companies to fix the
exchange rate at a specific level in the future. NDFs show the
ruble at 31.0628 per dollar in three months. The ruble was
little changed, gaining less than 0.1 percent to 30.8725 per
dollar by 1:45 p.m. in Moscow trading.  
 Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 sold in April rose,
pushing the yield 4 basis points lower to 5.312 percent, the
lowest level since May 3. Credit-default swaps linked to Russian
debt fell 9 basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 181 on
July 8, the lowest level since June 22. The contracts, which
investors use to hedge against losses or speculate on
creditworthiness, pay the buyer face value if a borrower reneges
on its obligations.  
 Market Support  
 The difference in yield between Russia’s ruble bonds due
2036 and dollar securities due 2030 has narrowed to 215 basis
points from 265 on May 10, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Investors increased the extra yield they demand to hold
Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries by 2 basis points to
262 today, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Indexes.
The gap compares with 173 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and
232 for Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service.  
 “We think the internal market can absorb our borrowings,
while the external one may be more volatile,” Pankin said.
“The question of offering a premium will depend on market
conditions, on demand for the securities and what the situation
will be with budget revenues.”  
 World Currency  
 Pankin ruled out tapping the government’s Reserve Fund to
lower the debt issuance target. The Finance Ministry plans to
borrow a further 1.5 trillion rubles from domestic markets next
year and 1.3 trillion rubles in 2012, according to budget
proposals.  
 Russia is “reorienting from the external to the domestic
market, Pankin said. “The domestic ruble market is what we care
most about and our goal is to make it more effective so we can
issue debt there.”  
 The government’s plan to stick to ruble bond sales
underscores President  Dmitry Medvedev’s  drive to boost the
currency’s role in world financial markets, said  Aleksandra Evtifyeva , a Moscow-based economist VTB Capital, Russia’s
second-biggest bank.  
 “It’s quite in line with the government’s attempts to
develop Moscow as a financial centre and turn the ruble into a
reserve currency,” Evtifyeva said.  
 Yield Pressure  
 The government may still choose to sell less debt than
planned after lowering its budget deficit goal for this year by
1.4 percentage points, according to  Mikhail Galkin , head of
fixed-income research at VTB in Moscow. The deficit for the year
may shrink to just 1.3 percent of GDP as the economy rebounds
and revenues from companies outside the oil industry recover,
according to VTB’s calculations.  
 “The Ministry of Finance won’t raise the money at any
cost, especially since the latest budget execution data is
strong,” Galkin said.  
 Russia should have conducted bigger auctions at the
beginning of the year to avoid the risk of missing its issuance
target,  Stanislav Ponomarenko , an analyst at ING Groep NV in
Moscow.  
 “This is something the markets won’t be able to ignore --
roughly 100 billion rubles of new debt per month,” said
Ponomarenko. “There will be a lot of pressure on the secondary
market.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Abelsky  in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Denis Maternovsky  in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Russia's Deputy Finance Minister  Dmitry Pankin. Photographer: Alexander Zemlianichenko Jr/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
