-- Russian Drought Hurts More Than Half of Grain Production in Stricken Areas
-- Maria Kolesnikova
-- 2010-07-12T13:39:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/russian-drought-hurts-more-than-half-of-grain-production-in-stricken-areas.html

          
          
             Russia’s worst drought in a decade
has damaged more than half of grain planted in 11 regions and
hot, dry weather may continue for the rest of this month, a
meteorologist said.  
 “We don’t see much room for improvement in July,” said
Anna Strashnaya, head of agro-meteorological forecasts at the
Federal Hydrometeorological Service. Rains came too late in some
areas, while conditions remained unfavorable in the worst-hit
regions along the Volga River and in the Ural Mountains, she
said in a telephone interview July 9.  
 Soil drought has affected more than half of grain plantings
in 11 regions along the Volga, in the Urals and central Russia,
and yields in these areas will be at least 30 percent less than
last year, the service said on its website late July 9.  
 Heat will persist in most parts of central Russia through
July 17, with temperatures reaching as high as 35 degrees
Celsius (95 degrees Fahrenheit), the hydrometeorological service
said on its  website  today. The agency forecast temperatures as
high as 39 degrees Celsius in the Volga region and thunderstorms
and rains in southern areas through July 14.  
 The  Agriculture Ministry  reduced its forecast for the total
grain crop by 5.6 percent to 85 million metric tons on July 5.
Last year’s harvest came to 97 million tons. Fourteen regions
along the Volga, in the Urals and central Russia have declared
emergencies because of heat and drought. Emergencies may be
extended to four more regions soon, the ministry said last week.
Drought damaged 9.3 million hectares (22.9 million acres) of
crops across the country, it said.  
 Saratov Yields  
 “Drought affected most of the areas in the Volga region,
where 50 percent to 70 percent of grain plantings, and sometimes
more, were damaged,” Strashnaya said. “Productivity will be
low, and yields won’t be much higher than in Saratov.”  
 The Saratov region, which accounted for 3.2 percent of
Russia’s wheat crop last year, last week reported grain yields
at 750 kilograms (1,653 pounds) a hectare, compared with last
year’s yields at 1.4 tons a hectare. The grain crop in Tatarstan
will come to about 1 million tons this year, down from an
average 4.5 million to 5 million tons, the regional Ministry of
Agriculture and Food said July 5.  
 Hot and dry weather worsened the crop outlook in parts of
central Russia, with half of grain plantings damaged in the
Voronezh region, which accounts for 3.2 percent of Russian
wheat, and some damage in the Tambov region, Strashnaya said.
Yields “may be only marginally better” in Voronezh and parts
of Tambov than in Saratov, Strashnaya said. Yields in Voronezh
averaged 2.65 tons a hectare last year.  
 ‘Very Bad’  
 The Volgograd region in the south, which accounts for 4.6
percent of the wheat harvest, continues to suffer from dry and
hot weather, with temperatures as high as 35 degrees Celsius,
Strashnaya said. Yields there will be “very bad, and only
marginally better than in Saratov,” she said.  
 “Unfavorable conditions” persist across the Urals despite
some decline in temperatures, she said. More than half of the
grain crop is damaged in the Chelyabinsk region and as much as
30 percent in the Kurgan region.  
 Rains have delayed harvesting in southern regions including
Krasnodar and Stavropol, and may cause some crop losses,
Strashnaya said.  
 Siberia is the only region where the weather is “normal,”
and the crop there could help to compensate for losses in other
areas, she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        