-- Sabic Second-Quarter Profit May Triple as Economic Recovery Boosts Demand
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-07-13T14:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/sabic-second-quarter-profit-may-triple-as-economic-recovery-boosts-demand.html

          
          
             Saudi Basic Industries Corp. , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, may have seen second-
quarter profit more than triple after demand for fertilizers and
plastics recovered in a strengthening global economy.  
 Sabic, controlled by the Saudi government, will report 5.8
billion riyals ($1.6 billion) in net income after 1.8 billion
riyals in the same quarter last year, according to the average
of seven analysts’  estimates  on Bloomberg. Sabic traditionally
releases quarterly results within a month after the end of a
quarter.  
 A global economic recovery is helping  Sabic  overcome last
year’s slump, when sales of its automotive, construction and
consumer products weakened. The company’s U.S. plastics business
is improving as demand for materials needed to make automobiles
and electronic goods increased, Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed al-Mady  said April 18.  
 “The capacity utilization at Sabic’s plants is expected to
remain better than in 2009,” said  Syed Taimure Akhtar , a senior
analyst at  Global Investment House KSCC . Also, “they have
started generating revenue from new plants.”  
 Sabic started commercial operations this year at Eastern
Petrochemical Co. and  Yanbu National Petrochemical Co. , which is
likely to take sales beyond the 34 billion riyals in the first
quarter. Earnings already gained at its fertilizer unit.  Saudi
Arabian Fertilizer Co.  said July 10 that second-quarter profit
rose 89 percent to 907 million riyals as prices rose.  
 Yanbu National today reported second-quarter profit of
502.4 million riyals on improved product prices and production,
compared with a loss of 6.65 million riyals in the year-earlier
period.  
 Faster Growth  
 The  International Monetary Fund  on July 8 raised its
forecast for global economic growth this year to 4.6 percent,
which would be the fastest since 2007, from the 4.2 percent it
predicted in April. Canada and the U.S. are leading advanced
economies out of the worst recession since World War II, the
Washington-based fund said.  
 Sabic Innovative Plastics, the U.S. unit purchased from
General Electric Co. for $11.6 billion in 2007, contributed to
the company’s  first-quarter loss  last year. The loss was the
first since the fourth quarter of 2001, Bloomberg data showed.  
 Sabic gained 0.8 percent to 90 riyals in Riyadh today,
bringing this year’s gain to 9.1 percent and giving the company
a market value of 270 billion riyals.  
 European Exports  
 Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis hasn’t hurt exports to
European buyers so far, Akhtar said. The crisis, which policy
makers sought to contain with an emergency 750 billion-euro
($949 billion) aid program, prompted leaders of the Group of 20
nations to commit last month to debt-reduction goals over the
next six years. Saudi Arabia is a member of the G-20.  
 “Most of Sabic’s European exports are headed toward
Germany, France and the U.K.,” Akhtar said. “These countries
haven’t been impacted by the European debt crisis.”  
 Sabic has also tapped financing from local banks to fund
expansion as the company seeks to triple petrochemicals
production to 130 million tons by 2020. Sabic signed an
agreement on June 29 for a 4.5 billion-riyal credit facility to
finance growth in production capacity.  
 Access to discounted oil and natural gas gives Sabic a
competitive advantage over rivals BASF SE and Dow Chemical Co.
Oil is a feedstock for petrochemicals, and Sabic burns gas to
manufacture them.  
 Sabic pays Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest government-
owned oil supplier, 75 cents for every 1 million British thermal
units of natural gas. Natural gas for August delivery on the New
York Mercantile Exchange was little changed at $4.4 per million
British thermal units in electronic trading today. Gas prices
often track swings in oil prices.  
 “The subsidized feedstock gives them a competitive
advantage,” said  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at  NCB
Capital . “The cost competitiveness comes from the immunity to
market price pressures.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        