-- Safran to Press for Merger After Zodiac Aerospace Rejects Initial Approach
-- Mark Deen
-- 2010-07-12T14:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/safran-to-press-for-merger-after-zodiac-aerospace-rejects-initial-approach.html

          
          
             Safran SA  will continue to press for
a purchase of  Zodiac Aerospace SA  after Europe’s biggest maker
of airplane seats rejected the jet-engine maker’s initial
takeover approach, citing a lack of potential cost savings.  
 Zodiac, which supplies Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co . with items
including escape chutes and oxygen systems, rose as much as
7.9 percent in Paris trading. Safran, based in the French
capital, has retained advisers for a potential deal, Chief
Financial Officer  Ross McInnes  said, declining to identify them.  
 “Aircraft manufacturers are looking for companies that can
provide systems across several types of what used to be separate
businesses,” McInnes said by phone today. A merger “would
respond to a desire of aircraft manufacturers to assign a wide
scope of work to their tier-one suppliers.”  
 Airbus and Boeing, the world’s largest manufacturers of
commercial planes, have pushed their biggest suppliers to merge
so that a handful of companies with critical mass can produce
parts, systems and equipment at the lowest price.  
 “Zodiac isn’t looking for a partner and has a good outlook
as a standalone company,” Zodiac Chief Executive Officer
 Olivier Zarrouati  told journalists on a conference call
yesterday. “The outlook for Safran is modest, and the
industrial synergies are weak.”  
 Family Backing  
 Safran proposed an offer by letter without a specific
price, and the board of Paris-based Zodiac unanimously rejected
the approach after a June 9 discussion, Zarrouati said. The
families with the biggest stakes in Zodiac are backing
management’s plans to keep the company independent, he added.  
 Safran didn’t put a value on its bid because it wants to
study the benefits of a combination first, McInnes said.  
 Zodiac’s shares  rose  7.3 percent to 42.68 euros as of
4:09 p.m. Before today, they had gained 67 percent in 12 months,
valuing the company at 2.22 billion euros ($2.8 billion). Safran
fell 2.1 percent to 21.85 euros, cutting its market value to
9.11 billion euros.  
 Safran, Europe’s second-biggest maker of aircraft engines,
was formed in 2005 when French state-owned aircraft-engine maker
Snecma was purchased by electronics maker Sagem SA in a deal
engineered by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  during his tenure
as finance minister. The company is 30.2 percent state-owned.  
 Safran, besides making aircraft engines, supplies braking
systems, landing gear and cabling to planemakers, while Zodiac
supplies cabin interior equipment including seats, escape chutes
and systems for oxygen and electrical power.  
 Broad Product Line  
 “Zodiac’s right in saying there’s effectively few
synergies in terms of product overlap,” said  Christophe Menard ,
an analyst at Bryan Garnier & Co. in Paris. “But from Safran’s
point of view it makes sense because the equipment they offer --
landing gear, cabling, etc., added to the products Zodiac makes
would create critical mass,” he said. He rates both companies
”buy.”  
 In the last two years, Safran has  disposed  of mobile
telephone and broadband equipment businesses inherited in the
Sagem deal. Its joint venture with General Electric Co. supplies
the only engine that powers Boeing’s single-aisle 737 plane and
produces one of two engines available for Airbus SAS’s A320
series.  
 The CFM International venture’s CFM56 engine has a market
share of about 75 percent for single-aisle planes, the aircraft
most favored by the growing low-cost aviation industry. Safran
also builds engines for military planes including Dassault
Aviation SA’s Rafale and sells security equipment for airports
and other businesses.  
 Zodiac’s business has only a 4 percent overlap with
Safran’s, Zarrouati said.  
 ‘Very Different’  
 “Safran shares seem very different from Zodiac ones in
terms of risk profile,” Zarrouati said. “We don’t see the
utility of being bought. We have before us sufficient growth
perspectives, internal and external, to satisfy our
shareholders.”  
 Zodiac Aerospace changed its name from Zodiac SA last year
to reflect a shift to the aviation industry after it sold 80
percent of a business that makes pool equipment and inflatable
rafts in 2007.  
 The Domange and Marechal families together own one quarter
of Zodiac stock and hold more than 40 percent of its voting
rights, according to  Hoover’s Handbook .  
 Zarrouati said yesterday that accepting Safran’s offer
would have opened a “Pandora’s Box,” with companies outside
France submitting rival bids. He said he doesn’t expect Zodiac
to be pursued by other companies since Zodiac has rejected the
friendly approach from Safran.  
 -- With assistance from  Ben Martin  in London. Editors:  Jim Silver ,  David Risser .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        