-- Santos Has Customers to Support First Queensland LNG Unit, Bernstein Says
-- Dinakar Sethuraman
-- 2010-07-12T06:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/santos-has-customers-to-support-first-queensland-lng-unit-bernstein-says.html

          
          
             Santos Ltd. , proposing a $13 billion
liquefied natural gas project in Queensland, may have enough
buyers to support starting work on the first production unit,
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said.  
 “Santos is close to completing off-take arrangements with
Korea Gas Corp. which together with Petronas will underpin
demand for Gladstone LNG Train 1,”  Neil Beveridge  and  Angus Chan  said in a report. They upgraded Santos to “outperform”
and raised their target price on the stock to A$17.  
 The first production line Santos and partner Petronas, or
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., build at the Australian plant may cost
as much as $7 billion, the Bernstein analysts said today.
Petronas plans to build a 3 million-metric-tons a year LNG
import facility in the Malaysian state of Malacca, which augurs
well for the project, they said.  
 Santos  rose  0.8 percent to A$14.11 in Sydney, adding to an
advance of 9.7 percent on July 9, the biggest gain since
November 2008, after newspaper reports that Royal Dutch Shell
Plc may buy a stake in the project. Today’s gain compares with a
0.3 percent increase in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index .  
 “We expect final investment decision on Gladstone LNG
Train 1 to take place before the end of 2010 with the second
train offering longer-term upside,” the Hong Kong-based
analysts said.  
 Shell may spend A$2 billion ($1.7 billion) to acquire as
much as 35 percent of Santos’s Gladstone LNG on Curtis Island,
the Australian Financial Review reported July 9, without saying
where it got the information. The  Australian said  the Hague-
based Shell is competing with Korea Gas and China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp., known as Sinopec, for a stake.  
 Korea Gas, the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, said in May
that it had started discussions to buy a stake in the project.
Santos is prepared to sell more than 9 percent of the venture as
part of a fuel-supply agreement, Chief Executive Officer  David Knox  said the same month.  
 Adelaide-based Santos and Petronas intend to convert coal-
seam gas, mostly methane found on the surface of coal, into
liquid form for export to Asia.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        