-- SEB Sells German Retail Banking Unit to Banco Santander for $699 Million
-- Charles Penty
-- 2010-07-12T15:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/santander-buys-seb-branches-in-germany-for-699-million-in-expansion-push.html

          
          
             Banco Santander SA , Spain’s largest
lender, is to buy 173 German bank branches from  SEB AB  for about
555 million euros ($699 million) to expand in Europe’s biggest
economy.  
 Santander aims to complete the transaction in 2011 once the
appropriate regulatory approval has been obtained, it said in a
filing today. Following the acquisition, the number of German
branches of the Santander, Spain-based bank “will be almost
doubled,” it said.  
 The purchase of SEB’s business in Germany is the latest
acquisition this year for Santander, which is also bidding for
about 300 RBS branches in the U.K. after it bought $3.2 billion
in auto loans from  Citigroup Inc.  and bought back almost a
quarter of its Mexican unit from Bank of America Corp. for $2.5
billion. The addition of SEB’s business, including 8.5 billion
euros in loans and 4.6 billion euros in deposits, will extend
the reach of the German arm of Santander, which until now
focused mainly on consumer finance.  
 “It does give them some more scale in a market where
they’re already present,” said  Joseph Dickerson , an  analyst  at
Execution Holdings Ltd. in London, who has rates Santander a
“sell.”  
 SEB put the division up for sale earlier this year. Chief
Executive Officer  Annika Falkengren  said in October that the
Stockholm-based company’s consumer banking unit in Germany “is
going to be quite a challenge,” and that the bank is looking at
“different solutions” for the division.  
 ‘Free Up Capital’  
 “The sale will free up capital that will be reinvested in
SEB’s core strategic growth areas,” Falkengren said in a
statement today. “Germany, the largest economy in Europe,
remains an important market for us. We have been present there
for nearly 35 years and going forward we will focus on merchant
banking and wealth.”  
 The purchase will have an impact of 10 basis points in core
capital, which stood at 8.8 percent at the end of March, the
Spanish lender said.  
 “The German market is one of Santander’s core markets,”
Chairman  Emilio Botin  said in an e-mailed statement issued by
Santander’s Moenchengladbach-based German unit. “This
acquisition is an important step to reach our goal of becoming a
full-service retail bank in Europe’s biggest market.”  
 Santander said it currently has 176 retail branches and 6
million customers in Germany where it says it’s the leading
financier of durable goods.  
 Santander  fell  0.8 percent to 9.886 euros in Madrid, while
SEB rose 1.2 percent to 46.47 kronor.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
 Charles Penty  in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        