-- Satin Seas, Breaking Waves Soothe in Sargent London Exhibition
-- Martin Gayford
-- 2010-07-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/satin-seas-breaking-waves-soothe-in-sargent-london-exhibition.html

          
          
             There was an affinity between 19th-
century painters and the sea. Perhaps it was the sparkling light
that attracted them, maybe the holiday mood or that sense of
confronting a mysterious, alien, almost infinite element.  
 The latest to have his maritime works examined in a closely
focused exhibition is  John Singer Sargent .  
 “Sargent and the Sea” at the  Royal Academy  in London is a
good show to look at on a hot summer day. It’s not too heavy,
easily digestible, and features beguiling painting. On the other
hand, in terms of content, it’s lightweight -- even skimpy --
and leaves you with a dissatisfied feeling, as Sargent often
does.  
 Sargent (1856-1925) started off, as this exhibition does,
brilliantly. In 1876, he crossed the Atlantic for the first time
to visit the U.S. (like Whistler, he was a nominally American
artist who spent most of his life elsewhere).  
 Those voyages by liner produced some wonderful and
precocious pictures. “Atlantic Sunset” (c. 1876) catches the
ocean in a moment of calm, the water shimmering like satin;
“Atlantic Storm” (1876) is a scene out of a  Herman Melville 
novel, looking back from the stern of the ship, with a white
wake stretching out between the tumbling blue mounds of the
waves.  
 The trouble is that these early works are the peak of the
exhibition. There are some other fine things. “Whitby Fishing
Boats” (1884) is an example of Sargent’s accuracy with tone,
akin to perfect pitch in music. He places a few black
silhouettes of ships on brushy bands of blue-gray and, voila, a
huge expanse of light and air appears.  
 Virtuoso Clones  
 That picture is close to Whistler’s paintings of the bay at
Valparaiso from 1866. There’s nothing wrong with being
influenced, of course, though with Sargent you get the feeling
that he spent too much time doing virtuoso performances of other
artists’ styles (a lot of his best portraits are an Edwardian
riff on  Van Dyck ).  
 Also, he tended to play it safe. His entry for the Paris
Salon of 1878, intended to please the public and the critics,
was “Setting Out to Fish.” It’s just a bit duller and more
conventional than the other sea pictures. He has given it a
Monet sky, but the figures of the fisherwomen hanging about on a
chilly looking beach are in a more mainstream 19th-century taste.
Sargent was prepared to be daring, though only to a certain
extent -- and that in retrospect was a weakness.  
 Beach Bathers  
 There was an enormous appetite in the 19th century for
pictures of people on beaches. There was also a big market for
paintings of naked children bathing. Taboos and moral boundaries
have changed. What was regarded as the most charming and
innocent of subjects in the 1870s is now likely to result in a
visit from Scotland Yard, as happened last year at  Tate Modern .  
 That won’t happen at the RA, of course, because Sargent’s
“Neapolitan Children Bathing” (1879) is a painting not a
photograph, and old rather than new. Leaving contemporary
feelings about images of children to one side, there’s something
yucky about that and the similar pictures in the show. Still,
behind the sentimentalized urchins on the sand, there’s a
terrific evocation of the blue-green Mediterranean in the sun.  
 As often, you feel Sargent was capable of being so good
that he could have done better than he actually did.  
 “Sargent and the Sea” is at the Royal Academy in London
through Sept. 26. Information:  http://www.royalacademy.org.uk .
The show is sponsored by Japan Tobacco Inc.  
 ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at
 martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "En Route pour la peche" (Setting Out to Fish) by John Singer Sargent. The picture is on display in "Sargent and the Sea" at the Royal Academy, London, through Sept 26. Source: Royal Academy via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Atlantic Storm" (1876) by John Singer Sargent. The picture is on display in "Sargent and the Sea" at the Royal Academy, London, through Sept 26. Source: Collection Curtis Galleries via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "Beach Scene" (1880) by John Singer Sargent. The painting is on display in "Sargent and the Sea" at the Royal Academy, London, through Sept 26. Source: Royal Academy via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
