-- Saudi Aramco to Provide Full August Contractual Crude Oil Volumes to Asia
-- Christian Schmollinger
-- 2010-07-12T01:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/saudi-aramco-to-provide-full-august-contractual-crude-oil-volumes-to-asia.html

          
          
             Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
largest state-owned oil company, will supply full contractual
volumes of crude to Asia for loading in August, according to
refinery officials.  
 Saudi Aramco, as the company is known, will provide 100
percent of cargoes sold under long-term contracts for a ninth
month, according to a survey of three refinery officials in
Japan, all of whom asked to remain unidentified, citing
confidentiality agreements with the Middle East producer.  
 The decision to provide full exports comes after the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed in March to
leave output quotas unchanged for the fifth time since 2008. The
group is exceeding targets by the equivalent of a little more
than a supertanker a day.  
 Saudi Arabia  maintained its June crude output at 8.29
million barrels a day, according to a Bloomberg survey of
producers, analysts and oil companies. That was about 239,000
barrels a day over its daily production target of 8.051 million
barrels.  
 Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., the state-run producer in the
United Arab Emirates capital, on June 27 said it would cut
August shipments of crude to buyers with long-term contracts.  
 Murban, the country’s largest export grade, will be reduced
by 10 percent, up from 3 percent in July. Lower Zakum will be
slashed by the same amount versus 5 percent for July. Umm Shaif
and Upper Zakum will drop by 20 percent after July cuts of 5
percent and 10 percent respectively.  
 OPEC’s compliance with its quotas rose to 52 percent in
June from 48 percent the month before, based on data from the
Bloomberg survey. All the members of the group bound by the
targets exceeded their targets, producing 26.9 million barrels a
day last month.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        