-- Saudi British Second-Quarter Profit Drops on Bad Loans, Missing Estimates
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-07-12T12:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/saudi-british-bank-second-quarter-profit-declines-34-as-provisions-rise.html

          
          
             Saudi British Bank  posted a 34
percent decline in second-quarter profit, missing analysts’
forecasts, as the lender 40 percent owned by  HSBC Holdings Plc 
set aside more money to cover bad loans.  
 Net income fell to 447 million riyals ($119.2 million) from
676 million riyals in the year-earlier period, the bank said in
a statement on the Saudi bourse  website  today. The average
estimate of five analysts was for a profit of 631 million
riyals, according to  Bloomberg data .  
 Profit at some Saudi banks suffered as they provisioned
against bad loans since the onset of the global credit crisis
and as lending slowed in the Arab world’s largest economy.  Riyad
Bank , the third largest in the kingdom by market value,  Arab
National Bank , and  Saudi Investment Bank  reported declines in
second-quarter profit.  
 “We will have to look at it on a bank to bank basis,”
 Faisal Hasan , head of research at  Global Investment House KSCC ,
said from Kuwait. “There are some banks that will still face
provisioning.”  
 Banks in Saudi Arabia had been reluctant to resume lending
even after the central bank cut interest rates and the
government announced a $400 billion spending program to restart
the economy. Bank lending to the private sector increased an
annual 3.9 percent in May, up from 2.4 percent in April, the
 Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency , the country’s central bank, said
on its website last month.  
 Loans  
 Arab National Bank , Saudi Arabia’s sixth-largest publicly
traded lender by assets, said second-quarter profit fell 16
percent to 629 million riyals, while  Saudi Investment Bank  said
second-quarter profit fell 88 percent to 22 million riyals,
according to the banks’ announcement today to the Saudi bourse.  
 Saudi British Bank’s  loans fell 5 percent to 74.8 billion
riyals as of June 30, while customer deposits increased 3
percent to 94.2 billion riyals, the bank said. Operating income
for the second dropped 1.7 percent to 1.36 billion riyals.  
 Saudi British Bank reported in April a 75 percent decline
in provisions for bad loans to 176.5 million riyals in the three
months ended March 31, from 714.3 million riyals in the previous
quarter, according to data posted on the Saudi bourse website.  
 Saudi British “has continued with its cost containment
measures and prudent provisioning,” Sheikh Khaled Al-Olayan,
the Riyadh-based bank’s chairman, said in an e-mailed statement. [bn:WBTKR=SABB:AB]   
 Saudi British [] declined 1.6 percent to 43 riyals on the
Saudi stock exchange today, valuing the company at 32.3 billion
riyals. The shares have declined 0.9 percent this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        