-- HSBC, UniCredit Said to Pull Out of Bidding for AIB's Polish Unit Zachodni
-- Maciej Martewicz
-- 2010-07-12T15:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/hsbc-unicredit-said-to-pull-out-of-bidding-for-aib-s-polish-unit-zachodni.html

          
          
             UniCredit SpA  and HSBC Holdings Plc
withdrew from the bidding for  Bank Zachodni WBK SA , the Polish
lender that Allied Irish Banks Plc aims to sell this year, a
person with knowledge of the negotiations said.  
 PKO Bank Polski SA , Poland’s largest lender, is in talks to
buy the 70 percent stake in Zachodni, valued at 9.77 billion
zloty ($3 billion) in Warsaw trading today, the person said,
declining to be identified because the details aren’t public.  
 Arkadiusz Mierzwa , a spokesman for UniCredit Polish unit
Bank Pekao SA;  Brendan McNamara , a spokesman for HSBC; and
 Catherine Burke , a spokeswoman for AIB, all declined to comment.  
 AIB is selling its entire stake in Poland’s third-biggest
bank by market value, to help meet capital requirements set by
Irish banking regulators. Zachodni could give a foreign bank a
foothold in Poland, the only European Union economy to avoid
recession last year.  
 HSBC and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  of Italy were among the banks
that placed initial bids last month, two people familiar with
the transaction said July 2.  
 Dublin-based AIB asked bidders to improve their offers
before it closes a shortlist and allows for due diligence
scrutiny, Rzeczpospolita newspaper reported today, citing a
person close to the transaction.  
 On June 22, Treasury Minister Aleksander Grad said the
government would support PKO’s bid for Zachodni. Three days
later, PKO’s shareholders postponed their vote on a 2009
dividend until its chances to buy Zachodni become clear. PKO’s
Chief Executive Officer Zbigniew Jagiello declined to comment
last week on whether the bank actually placed the bid.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maciej Martewicz  in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        