-- MSCI China May Post Near-Term Rebound as Liquidity Improves, JPMorgan Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-13T02:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/msci-china-index-may-rebound-as-liquidity-improves-jpmorgan-s-li-says.html

          
          
             The  MSCI China Index  may rebound in
the near term because concern that the economy will slow is
already priced into the shares after annual declines and as
liquidity improves, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  
 A decline in agricultural prices may give authorities more
leeway to adjust monetary policy, while central bank cash
injections and a release of locked-up funds from Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd.’s initial public offering will boost
available funds, according to JPMorgan strategists led by  Frank Li  in a report today.  
 “We believe that the market may have discounted some of
the economic slowdown risks,” Li, who is top-ranked for
strategy in Institutional Investor’s inaugural All-China
research poll, said in the report.  
 The MSCI China Index, which measures mostly Hong Kong-
traded Chinese companies, has declined 5.5 percent this year, as
the government sought to restrain inflation and record  property
price gains . The measure dropped 0.4 percent to 61.10 at 10:08
a.m. and trades at 15.7 times reported  earnings , compared with
last year’s high of about 22.6 times in December.  
 Still, JPMorgan remains “cautious” on the MSCI China
because of the risk to earnings from an economic slowdown,
policies including the new resource tax and price caps for coal
companies, and as banks continue to raise funds, Li wrote.  
 Investors should favor consumer stocks, expressways,
independent power producers, banks and insurers, and avoid
commodities, property developers, paper manufacturers and
airlines, according to the report.  
 Bank IPO  
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , which begins trading in
Shanghai on July 15 and in Hong Kong the day after, raised $19.2
billion in the world’s biggest initial public offering in four
years. The release of money tied up in the share sale may be a
possible near-term catalyst for the stock market, Li said.  
 The central bank injected as much as 517 billion yuan
($76.3 billion) in liquidity through open-market operations in
June, compared with 224 billion yuan in May, and net withdrawals
in April and March, according to the JPMorgan report. July net
liquidity injection is likely to stay at around 500 billion yuan,
the brokerage estimated.  
 “Authorities seem to have become more accommodative in
improving the domestic liquidity situation, which marks a far
cry from the government’s earlier practice of aggressively
taking liquidity out of the system,” Li said.  
 -Chua Kong Ho. With assistance from Weiyi Lim in Taipei. Editors:
Richard Frost, Reinie Booysen  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Chua Kong Ho in Shanghai at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        