-- Sewage Leak From Zijin Copper Mine Contaminates Fujian River, Xinhua Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T09:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/sewage-leak-from-zijin-copper-mine-contaminates-fujian-river-xinhua-says.html

          
          
             Waste from a copper and gold
mine owned by  Zijin Mining Group Co.  has contaminated a river
and killed fish in Fujian province, Xinhua News Agency  said 
today, citing local environmental authorities.  
 An initial investigation found the leakage came from a
plant of Zijinshan mine, Xinhua said. About 1.89 million
kilograms of fish in a reservoir on the Tingjiang River were
poisoned or found dead, it said. Zijinshan, which accounts for
59 percent of Zijin’s bullion mine output, is China’s largest
gold producer.  
 The leakage may pose a test for China’s environment
ministry, which has been seeking to impose higher standards on
commodity producers after thousands of children suffered metal
poisoning in four provinces last year. Zijin, China’s largest
gold producer, in May said it took corrective measures on plants
and mines, including on Zijinshan, after criticism from
environmental protection agencies.  
 “The environmental issue is always at the back of our
mind,”  Owen Liang , a Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan
Securities Co., said by phone today. “It’s like a ticking bomb
that exploded this time.”  
 Zijin  suspended trading of its shares  in Hong Kong
and Shanghai today. The suspension is related to the
contamination, and the company will issue a statement later with
details, said  Fan Cheung Man , a Hong Kong-based spokesman.  
 Zijinshan mine was discharging its tailings directly into
the tailing reservoir without treatment, and the sewage
treatment system lacked operational approval from the
environmental protection department, Zijin said in its May
statement. Corrective measures were taken, it had said.  
 Mine Production  
 Zijinshan produced 18 metric tons of gold in 2009, out of
the company’s total bullion mine output of 30.65 tons, according
to Liang. It also produced 12,800 tons of copper, or 15 percent
of Zijin’s 84,800 tons of annual production, he said.  
 The county government mobilized soldiers, civil servants
and villagers to help net the dead fish, Xinhua said today.
Villagers want Zijin to compensate them for their losses, the
news agency said.  
 Operations run by units of Zijin, including Funin Zhenglong
Gold Mine Resources Development Co., Longkou Jinfeng Co. and
Xinjiang Jinbao Mining Co., were also cited for complaints by
environmental protection agencies in China last year, according
to Zijin’s statement in May.  
 -- Xiao Yu . With assistance from  Helen Yuan  in Shanghai. Editors:
 Tan Hwee Ann ,  Matthew Oakley .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xiao Yu in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        