-- Shaw, Toshiba, Exelon Agree to Team Up for Saudi Arabian Nuclear Projects
-- Glen Carey
-- 2010-07-12T08:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/shaw-toshiba-exelon-agree-to-team-up-for-saudi-arabian-nuclear-projects.html

          
          
             Shaw Group Inc. , Toshiba Corp. and
Exelon Nuclear Partners, a unit of  Exelon Corp. , will team up to
pursue nuclear power contracts in Saudi Arabia as the kingdom
invests to meet energy demand.  
 The group wants to provide engineering, procurement,
construction and operations for Saudi nuclear power plants under
the terms of the agreement, the companies said today in a
statement released through Business Newswire.  
 Saudi Arabia is one of several Arab Gulf countries seeking
to develop nuclear energy to meet rising electricity demand.
Kuwait and France signed a civil nuclear-energy accord in April
and the United Arab Emirates awarded a $20 billion contract in
December to a group of companies led by Korea Electric Power
Corp. to build four nuclear plants.  
 Saudi Arabia’s Cabinet gave permission on July 7 for a
draft cooperation agreement with France for the development of
peaceful uses of nuclear energy, the  Saudi Press Agency 
reported, without giving more details.  
 Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s largest economy, said in
April it will start a civilian nuclear and renewable energy
center to help meet increasing demand for power and to supervise
its atomic-energy program. The kingdom will spend $80 billion to
increase its power-generation capacity and transmission network
in the next decade as demand rises to 65,000 megawatts in 2018,
up from 41,200 megawatts last year.  
 The  King Abdullah  City for Nuclear and Renewable Energy
will be built in Riyadh, the kingdom’s capital, the state-owned
 Saudi Press Agency  said, citing a royal order from King
Abdullah. The new center will draft a national policy for
nuclear power use and supervise the kingdom’s atomic energy and
nuclear waste. It will represent Saudi Arabia at the Vienna-
based  International Atomic Energy Agency .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Glen Carey  in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        