-- Singapore's Growth Probably Exceeded 20% Last Quarter on Exports, Casinos
-- Jay Wang
-- 2010-07-13T01:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/singapore-s-growth-probably-exceeded-20-last-quarter-on-exports-casinos.html

          
          
             Singapore’s economy probably grew
more than 20 percent for a second quarter as rising exports
boosted manufacturing output and the opening of two casinos
spurred tourist arrivals.  
 Gross domestic product  rose an annualized 23 percent in the
second quarter from the previous three months, after climbing
38.6 percent in the January-to-March period, according to the
median estimate of 12 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. The
trade ministry will release the data at 8 a.m. tomorrow.  
 Singapore’s strengthening economy has added to an Asian
rebound that prompted central banks to raise interest rates in
recent weeks, even amid concern that Europe’s debt crisis will
slow the global recovery. The nation has raised its GDP forecast
twice this year and Credit Suisse Group AG and Oversea-Chinese
Banking Corp. predict the island may overtake China as Asia’s
fastest-growing economy in 2010.  
 “The strength of the first-quarter recovery took most by
surprise, and Singapore could see an even more impressive second
quarter, judging by the latest manufacturing data,” said  Alvin Liew , a Singapore-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc. The
country also benefited from “robust tourist arrivals,” lured
by new attractions, he said.  
 The benchmark Singapore stock index rose 0.3 percent at
9:37 a.m. local time, and has climbed 29 percent in the past
year. The island’s currency added 0.2 percent to 1.3809 per U.S.
dollar, bringing this year’s gain to 1.5 percent.  
 Manufacturing Gains  
 Singapore’s manufacturing increased an average 45 percent
in the first five months of 2010, after declining an average 13
percent in the same period last year. Pharmaceutical output has
at least doubled every month from March to May.  
 “Pharmaceuticals and electronics did very well last
quarter, while trade  services  and tourism arrivals helped beef
up growth,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a regional economist at
OSK-DMG Group in Singapore. “We are expecting the momentum in
manufacturing to slow in the second half.”  
 The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as  Sanofi-
Aventis SA  can cause industrial output to fluctuate.  
 The opening of two casino resorts by  Genting Singapore Plc 
and Las Vegas Sands Corp. this year, which include a theme park
and convention centers, has contributed to record tourist
arrivals every month through May and is helping fuel employment.  
 The  economy  probably grew 17.3 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
13 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg .  
 Singapore’s trade promotion industry will also release
export figures tomorrow. Overseas shipments may rise 22.6
percent in June from a year earlier, after a 24.4 percent gain
in May, according to the median estimate of 10 economists. Non-
oil domestic exports will probably gain between 15 percent and
17 percent in 2010, the government said in May.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        