-- Skimpy Swimsuit, Beer, Venetian Palazzo Fuel Endurance Art Show
-- Katya Kazakina
-- 2010-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/skimpy-swimsuit-beer-venetian-palazzo-fuel-endurance-art-show.html

          
          
             For an artist, taking a gondola to a
studio in a 14th-century Venetian palazzo sounds like a dream
gig.  
 Throw in beer, cigarettes and a finished painting by day’s
end, and you have a good idea how Iceland’s Ragnar Kjartansson
spent his time at the  Venice Biennale  in 2009.  
 The problem was Kjartansson, as his country’s
representative at the contemporary-art exhibition, had committed
to repeating these actions every day except Mondays for the
biennale’s entire June-November run. That’s 144 paintings and a
lot of beer and butts for him and his model, a lanky man named
Pall Haukur Bjornsson, who’s usually posing in a skimpy black
swimsuit.  
 “We got a bit sick of the situation,” said Kjartansson,
34, when we recently met in New York. “The magic wore off after
two weeks.” It didn’t help that the studio was open to the
public, bringing a discomfiting scrutiny.  
 Tedium and anxiety are visible in many of the paintings,
all of which can be seen in “The End-Venezia” installation
that is part of the artist’s solo debut at  Luhring Augustine
gallery  in New York’s Chelsea district.  
 Almost all the works depict a lone male figure set against
a colorful background and often surrounded by empty beer
bottles. The model leans, sits, looks at the Grand Canal,
smokes, plays or holds a guitar, reads or holds a book. Both
Kjartansson and Bjornsson seem to be going through the motions,
role-playing the artist and his muse, and eventually running out
of inspiration and ideas.  
 The paintings, which are arranged chronologically, appear
to get sloppier and more brooding as time goes on. Yet
collectively they present a charming blend of theatricality,
humor, melancholy and stamina.  
 Lack of Privacy  
 The lack of privacy was the toughest challenge for
Kjartansson, leading to anxiety attacks, he said in an
interview. His model had another concern: he had to remain
nearly naked as summer gave way to fall. In some paintings he
wears a scarf around his neck, looking cold. In one gloomy
painting he is missing altogether. One assumes that he took a
sick day or played hooky.  
 Kjartansson continues to explore repetitiveness in a 49-
minute video called “The Man.” It shows legendary blues
pianist  Pinetop Perkins , who was born in 1913, playing in a
field outside Austin.  
 “This guy has been playing the same songs for 80 years,”
said Kjartansson. “Yet he loves it. He’s like a  Dalai Lama  of
cool.”  
 Theatricality and its repetitive nature are part of
Kjartansson’s upbringing. His father is a theater director and
his mother and sister are stage actresses who have to “repeat
stuff all the time,” the artist said.  
 Straw Hat  
 “They are as famous as can be in this little village of
Iceland,” said Kjartansson, who resembled a Chekhovian
character in a straw hat, blue seersucker suit, suspenders and
white shirt.  
 Instead of pursuing a stage career like the rest of his
family, he decided to channel theatricality into art. His
earlier works included performing a gibberish Rococo opera for
10 straight days and singing blues while being buried waist-deep
in the ground, recalling Beckett’s play “Happy Days.” A three-
part video “Me and my mother” documents Kjartansson’s mother
spitting on him every five years, starting in 2000.  
 Did his mother mind the task?  
 “She said, ‘I’d do anything for my boy,’” Kjartansson
said.  
 “The End-Venezia” is offered as a single artwork for
$250,000; “The Man” comes in an edition of six, each costing
$35,000. The gallery’s summer hours are Monday through Friday,
10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. The show runs through Aug. 13 at 531 W.
24th St. Information: +1-212-206-9100;
 http://www.luhringaugustine.com .  
 ( Katya Kazakina  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  
 To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Artist Ragnar Kjartansson, left, and model Pall Haukur Bjornsson beside a canal in Venice, Italy. Almost all of Kjartansson's works depict a lone male figure set against a colorful background and often surrounded by empty beer bottles. Source: Luhring Augustine Gallery/i8 Galleri via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Ragnar Kjartansson and Pall Haukur Bjornsson  
                       
                         
                           Luhring Augustine Gallery/i8 Galleri via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Artist Ragnar Kjartansson, right, and model Pall Haukur Bjornsson in their palazzo in Venice, Italy. Almost all of Kjartansson's works depict a lone male figure set against a colorful background and often surrounded by empty beer bottles. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Artist Ragnar Kjartansson, right, and model Pall Haukur Bjornsson in their palazzo in Venice, Italy. Almost all of Kjartansson's works depict a lone male figure set against a colorful background and often surrounded by empty beer bottles. Source: Luhring Augustine Gallery/i8 Galleri via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Artist Ragnar Kjartansson, left, and model Pall Haukur Bjornsson in Venice, Italy. Almost all of Kjartansson's works depict a lone male figure set against a colorful background and often surrounded by empty beer bottles. Source: Luhring Augustine Gallery/i8 Galleri via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Works of art by Ragnar Kjartansson in Venice, Italy. Almost all of Kjartansson's works depict a lone male figure set against a colorful background and often surrounded by empty beer bottles. Source: Luhring Augustine Gallery/i8 Galleri via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Artist Ragnar Kjartansson, right, and model Pall Haukur Bjornsson beside a canal in Venice, Italy. Almost all of Kjartansson's paintings depict a lone male figure set against a colorful background, and often surrounded by empty beer bottles. Source: Luhring Augustine Gallery/i8 Galleri via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
