-- Somali Islamists Say They Carried Out Uganda Bomb Attacks That Killed 74
-- Sarah McGregor
-- 2010-07-12T15:48:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/somali-islamists-say-they-carried-out-uganda-bomb-attacks-that-killed-74.html

          
          
             Somalia’s Islamist al-Shabaab
militia, which the U.S. accuses of having links to al-Qaeda,
claimed responsibility for two bomb attacks in Uganda in which
at least 74 people died.  
 The blasts occurred at separate venues late yesterday in
the Ugandan capital, Kampala, where crowds had gathered to watch
the soccer World Cup final. The first explosion went off at the
Ethiopian Village Restaurant in the south of the city, while a
second followed at the Kyadondo Rugby Club in eastern Kampala
about 50 minutes later, Fred Opolot, director of the Uganda
Media Center, told reporters today.  
 “We are responsible for the attack and we will continue to
retaliate against Ugandan and Burundian forces if they continue
to stay here,” al-Shabaab spokesman Sheikh Ali Mohamud Rage said
on a conference call today in the capital, Mogadishu. “We will
continue to retaliate by any means we can.”  
 Ugandan and Burundian soldiers form part of an African
Union-led peacekeeping force in Somalia, where al-Shabaab has
been battling the country’s Western-backed government since
2007. Earlier this month, al-Shabaab’s leader, known as Abu-
Zubeyr, threatened attacks on Ugandan and Burundi citizens to
avenge the deaths of civilians in Somalia.  
 “Al-Shabaab has said they would attack Uganda and Burundi
many times in the past because of the troops,”  Rashid Abdi , a
Horn of Africa analyst at the International Crisis Group, said
in a phone interview today from Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.
“This was just a matter of time. It was coming.”  
 Uganda Condemnation  
 Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni  condemned the attack and
said the nation’s security forces would hunt down the
perpetrators.  
 “We shall look for them and get them wherever they are,”
Museveni told reporters today.  
 The Ugandan shilling weakened 0.3 percent to 2,270 against
the U.S. dollar, the weakest level since July 6. The Uganda
Stock Exchange All Share index closed 0.7 percent lower at
1,005.91, a fourth day of declines, an exchange official said.  
 An American citizen was among those killed in the
explosions, Joann Lockard, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in
Kampala, said in a phone interview.  
 “There were Americans injured, but I don’t have any
details,” she said. More information will be released later
today, Lockard said.  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. would
work with Uganda to bring the perpetrators of the attack to
justice.  
 ‘Innocent Spectators’  
 “I join President Obama in strongly condemning today’s
attacks in Kampala, Uganda targeting innocent spectators
watching the World Cup final,” Clinton said in a  statement  on
the State Department’s website.  
 Ethiopia’s government said it was trying to establish
whether any of its citizens were killed in the blasts. U.S.-
backed Ethiopian forces invaded Somalia in December 2006 to oust
the Islamist government that had captured southern Somalia. They
withdrew in January 2009.  
 “There have been no recent threats specifically in
Ethiopia, but we know the Somali groups have said they will
launch attacks on peacekeeper nations,” Ethiopian Communications
Minister  Bereket Simon  said in an interview from Addis Ababa.
“Such cowardly acts take place at times of lax security, but in
Ethiopia we have been preparing ourselves to get rid of this
possibility.”  
 Uganda has 2,700 soldiers in Somalia and Burundi has 2,550,
according to the website of the  Francophone Research Network on
Peace Operations .  
 Burundi Targeted  
 Rage said today al-Shabaab may target the Burundian
capital, Bujumbura, unless the Central African nation withdraws
its forces from Somalia.  
 Last week, the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development,
a Djibouti-based body that groups six East African countries,
called for the peacekeeping mission in Somalia to deploy an
additional 2,000 soldiers to help the government battle
“extremist groups.” IGAD, as the group is known, includes
 Djibouti , Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Sudan and Uganda.  
 Uganda, with a population of more than 30 million people
and an economy of $16.4 billion, will begin commercial
production of oil next year when  Tullow Oil Plc  starts output at
its Kasamene field. Tullow, based in London, said in an e-mailed
statement that none of its operations had been affected by the
blasts, though the company’s Kampala-based staff were advised to
remain at home today.  
 The East African nation, about the size of the U.S. state
of Oregon, is the continent’s biggest exporter of robusta
coffee.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hamsa Omar  in Mogadishu via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        