-- Sovereign Debt Woes May Hamper $3 Trillion Refinancing in Europe, S&P Says
-- John Glover
-- 2010-07-12T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/sovereign-debt-woes-may-hamper-3-trillion-refinancing-in-europe-s-p-says.html

          
          
             Government debt concerns may hinder
efforts by companies and banks in Europe to refinance more than
$3 trillion of bonds through 2013,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  
 Corporate borrowers may also be crowded out by sovereign
fundraising in the region, while slowing economic growth may
persuade banks to hoard cash rather than lend it on, S&P
analysts led by  Diane Vazza  in New York wrote in a report
published today. There’s also the risk that rising  interest
rates  will hurt financial issuers, which account for 71 percent
of bonds due in the next three years, according to S&P.  
 Investors’ collapsing confidence in the euro area’s ability
to contain soaring budget deficits forced governments to cut
spending and triggered a European Union-led bailout package for
the region’s most indebted economies.  
 “The worsening state of public finances in some European
countries -- particularly in the euro zone periphery -- remains
an important source of concern,” the analysts wrote in the
report titled ‘Public Finance Woes Could Hamper Europe’s Ability
to Meet Upcoming Refunding Needs.’ “Further deterioration in
sovereign creditworthiness likely will have negative
implications for financial and non-financial entities’ borrowing
costs and access to markets.”  
 Portuguese, Irish, Greek and Spanish companies have $395
billion of debt maturing through 2013, and about 86 percent of
the bonds are investment grade, according to S&P. About 86
percent of the total is from financial issuers, S&P said.  
 Spain-based borrowers have about $185 billion coming due,
followed by companies in Ireland with $140 billion and those in
Portugal with $48 billion. Issuers in Greece have to refinance
$22 billion in the next three years, according to the report.  
 About a quarter of the financial-company debt coming due is
in the form of covered bonds, which are easier to refinance,
according to S&P. That’s because the securities are backed by
mortgages or loans to public authorities and stay on issuers’
balance sheets, giving investors another layer of protection.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Glover  in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        