-- Spaghetti, Robbers, Waterfall Enliven Paris Arts Extravaganza
-- Jorg von Uthmann
-- 2010-07-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/spaghetti-robbers-waterfall-enliven-paris-arts-extravaganza.html

          
          
             Parisians fail to grasp that their
city is no longer the arts capital of the world and that the
new stars of the market are American, British or German.  
 The latest effort to redress that sorry state of affairs
is an exhibition, a joint venture of the French government and
the city of Paris at the  Palais de Tokyo , whose east wing is
occupied by the municipality’s Musee d’Art Moderne and the
west wing by the state’s Site de Creation Contemporaine.  
 Some 40 artists or artistic teams, none older than 40,
have been selected among 800 candidates. Three-quarters are
French; the others are foreigners working in Paris.  
 The title, “Dynasty,” is misleading: This isn’t a
populist show seeking to endear itself to a soap-opera-
addicted, middlebrow public. Many of the items are esoteric.  
 Not that accessible works are missing. At the entrance,
you are greeted by Theo Mercier’s 3-meter-high giant sculpted
from spaghetti. In the next room, you find Guillaume Bresson’s
paintings of a robbery in an underground car park: They are
based on staged photos, yet the poses recall old masters.  
 The many canvases disprove the conventional wisdom that
the days of painting are numbered. Some are influenced by
graffiti, some by comics, others by  Anselm Kiefer .  
 A stuffed hyena demonstrates that  Damien Hirst’s  golden
touch hasn’t gone unnoticed on the other side of the Channel.  
 Frozen Waterfall  
 A huge installation by the Taiwan-born Yuhsin U. Chang,
titled “Dust at the Palais de Tokyo,” looks like a frozen
waterfall gushing out of the wall. It’s one of the many works
arriving with a philosophical -- or, as Benoit Maire puts it,
“post-conceptual” -- underpinning.  
 Maire’s bronze sculpture of a nose is accompanied by
texts expounding his “aesthetics of difference.”  
 To fully grasp the meaning of “The Coming Race,” a
series of photographs by Alain Della Negra and Kaori
Kinoshita, you have to attend their lectures. The people in
the pictures represent “a new mankind, polymorphous,
telepathic and capable of perceiving invisible worlds,”
according to the press material.  
 The most original of the conceptual works, “Truce:
Strategies for Post-Apocalyptic Computation” by Robin Meier
and Ali Momeni, was inspired by the discovery that male
mosquitoes adapt the pitch of their humming to that of their
mates during copulation: Three live insects hum along with a
traditional Indian song.  
 Vibrant Scene  
 The organizers make no attempt to present the various
styles and techniques as the germ of a new School of Paris.
Nor do they give the bewildered visitor much help: Each artist
appears in both wings, not the best way to facilitate the
understanding of his or her work. The catalog is a mess.  
 So you’ll have to follow your own instinct. What you’ll
discover is a young scene, sometimes pretentious, often
bizarre, yet vibrant -- proof that there is still fire under
the ashes of a glorious past.  
 “Dynasty” runs through Sept. 5 at the Palais de Tokyo.
Information:  http://www.mam.paris.fr  or +33-1-5367-4000. The
sponsors of the show include  Fondation Total .  
 ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
 To contact the writer on the story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at
 uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     "Untitled" (2010) by artist Raphaelle Ricol. The work is on display in "Dynasty" at the Palais de Tokyo, Paris, through Sept 5. Source: Musee d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     "The Coming Race" (2010), a photograph by Alain Della Negra and Kaori Kinoshita. The work is part of  "Dynasty," an exhibition that runs at the Palais de Tokyo, Paris, through Sept 5. Source: Musee d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
