-- Spain's First Soccer World Cup Win Unleashes All-Night Partying Back Home
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-12T13:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/spain-s-first-soccer-world-cup-win-unleashes-all-night-partying-back-home.html

          
          
             Spaniards danced under a statue of
15th Century explorer Christopher Columbus and sang “Viva
Espana!” in downtown Madrid last night in celebration of a 1-0
win over the Netherlands in the World Cup final.  
 Dressed in the red and yellow of the Spanish flag,
thousands of people hugged, shrieked and set off fireworks on
the city’s central avenue Paseo de la Castellana. Spain’s
victory in Johannesburg ended 76 years of waiting for the
country’s first world soccer championship.  
 “I’m not going to sleep tonight,” Inaki Sebastian, a 27-
year-old accountant said, with tears in his eyes as he and his
girlfriend watched on television through the window of a café as
Spain captain  Iker Casillas  lifted the gold trophy. “This may
not happen again for 40 years.”  
 Spain adds soccer’s most prestigious prize to other
accolades for its athletes including the Wimbledon tennis
championship won by  Rafael Nadal  last week and the Tour de
France won by  Alberto Contador  last July. The national team
first participated in the World Cup in 1934.  
 The government is trying to lift the economy out of a two-
year slump, cut the third-largest deficit in the euro region and
prop up savings banks. Winning the World Cup could add 0.25
percentage point to annual economic growth, ABN Amro Bank NV
economist  Hein Schotsman  said from Amsterdam last week.  
 ‘Go Out and Spend’  
 “We’re in an enormous crisis but this is going to make
people think differently,” Teresa Morenes, a 62-year-old
interior designer, said in Madrid’s Salamanca district. “People
will go out and spend this summer.”  
 Winning the World Cup will “give us confidence,” Spanish
Prime Minister Luis Rodriguez Zapatero told the Cadena Ser radio
station last night.  
 Spain’s team landed in Madrid at about 2:40 p.m. today on
an Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA plane with “Champions”
written in Spanish on the side. The pilots waved Spanish flags
out of the cockpit as firemen sprayed water jets in the air.  
 Dressed in a red t-shirt and tracksuit trousers, Casillas
was the first player to step out of the plane. He waved the
World Cup trophy in the air and smiled. The team was scheduled
to meet Zapatero and King Juan Carlos before parading on an
open-top bus in Madrid later today.  
 Last night, Spaniards watched on screens next to the
Columbus statue as the final appeared to be heading for
penalties. With four minutes of extra time left,  Andres Iniesta 
volleyed past Dutch goalkeeper  Maarten Stekelenburg .  
 ‘Slipping Away’  
 “I thought it was slipping away,” Jorge Rodriguez, a 16-
year-old schoolboy who was stripped to the waist and shouting
through a traffic cone, said. “Then it all went crazy.”  
 In Amsterdam, fans wearing the orange of the national team
stood dejected amid piles of litter after 125,000 people
gathered to watch the match.  
 “We were going to jump in the canals” if the Netherlands
won, Ranj Sherzad said after travelling from Eindhoven to view
the game on an outdoor screen in Amsterdam’s Museum Square.  
 The Netherlands also lost the 1974 and 1978 finals.  
 “I know I’ll see the Netherlands become champion one
day,” Sherzad, 26, said.  
 Spain won soccer’s 2008 European Championship and six
players in its team last night helped Barcelona win the 2009
Champions League, the elite European club competition. Secretary
of State for Sports  Jaime Lissavetzky  said in May that Spain’s
athletes have shrugged off self-doubt that had previously
affected them.  
 “We’ve lost the fear of losing,” Lissavetzky said.  
 Sebastian, the accountant who was wearing a red-and-yellow
Spain jersey, said he would head straight to work today without
going home after partying all night.  
 “I’ve got a clean shirt at work,” Sebastian said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        