-- Spare LNG Capacity May Plunge by 2013 as Demand Increases, Bernstein Says
-- Dinakar Sethuraman
-- 2010-07-12T07:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/spare-lng-capacity-may-plunge-by-2013-as-demand-increases-bernstein-says.html

          
          
             Global spare production capacity of
liquefied natural gas may plunge to less than 5 percent in 2013
from about 30 percent last year, creating room for supplies from
proposed ventures in Australia, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said.  
 “Despite fears of an excess of LNG supply, we believe
there is strong demand need for LNG over the coming decade,”
analysts  Neil Beveridge  and  Angus Chan  said in a report today.
“While there is an excess of liquefaction capacity following
the startup of Qatar LNG projects, this is only a temporary
phenomenon.”  
 BG Group Plc, Santos Ltd. and ConocoPhillips are among
companies planning more than $40 billion of investments in
Queensland projects that will convert gas extracted from coal
seams into LNG. This is in addition to conventional LNG ventures
in western Australia proposed by Chevron Corp., Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  
 Spare capacity to chill gas before transport by tankers was
about 15 percent in 1998 before declining to less than 5 percent
in 2003, according to Bernstein data. That gap may rise to about
15 percent in 2017 before declining again to less than 5 percent
in 2020, according to a chart in the report.  
 Southeast Asia  
 Producers may start less than 20 million metric tons a year
of capacity over the next three years, Bernstein said. Supplies
of the fuel from Southeast Asia will continue to decline with
aging gas fields at Arun and Bontang in Indonesia and fewer new
production lines, Bernstein said.  
 “Japan and Korea have the biggest gaps and will be the
biggest buyers over the next two years,” the Hong Kong-based
analysts said. The world’s biggest LNG buyers may need as much
as 10 million tons of new supplies annually over the next five
years to help meet demand.  
 “The market window for the startup of new projects in
2014-2015 looks to be attractive in our view and strongly
supports expansion of Australian LNG projects,” Bernstein said.  
 Projects including Ichthys, Pluto expansions, Browse and
Wheatstone may benefit from about 60 million tons a year of
“uncontracted” LNG demand by 2020, the analysts said. That may
still leave some excess supplies unless new markets are
developed, they said.  
 Santos, proposing a $13 billion LNG project in Queensland,
may have enough buyers to support the start of work on its first
production unit, Bernstein said in the same report.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dinakar Sethuraman  in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        