-- U.K. Stocks Advance as BP Shares Rally, Cobham Gains; Mining Stocks Fall
-- Sarah Jones
-- 2010-07-12T15:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/stocks-fluctuate-as-bp-shares-rally-on-exxon-speculation-miners-decline.html

          
          
             U.K. stocks  rallied for a fifth day,
the longest stretch of gains in a month, led by BP Plc on
speculation the energy company may succeed in halting the
biggest oil spill in U.S. history.  
 BP surged the most in 19 months amid optimism Apache Corp.
may buy about $12 billion worth of the oil producer’s assets.
 Cobham Plc  climbed as BofA-Merrill Lynch Global Research
recommended the manufacturer. Kazakhmys Plc led mining shares
lower, as copper retreated from a two-week high.  
 The benchmark  FTSE 100  climbed 34.08, or 0.7 percent, to
5,167.02 in London, extending last week’s 6.1 percent rally,
which was the biggest in a year. The  FTSE All-Share Index  rose
0.6 percent while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  gained 0.7 percent.  
 “BP is providing a lot of momentum,” said London-based
David Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index. “The newsflow
continues to be much more positive.”  
 BP  climbed 9.4 percent to 398.95 pence, extending last
week’s 13 percent surge. The energy company said it may be able
to cut off the flow of oil from the damaged Gulf of Mexico oil
well this week, beginning with a pressure test today.  
 Separately, people familiar with the discussions said BP is
in talks to sell assets to Apache, which includes a share in
 BP ’s Alaska business, for a price of less than $12 billion. BP
last month said it will sell some of its assets to raise $10
billion for cleanup costs, fines and legal damages from the Gulf
spill.  
 Taken Over  
 BP’s shares have plunged 39 percent since the April 20
accident that triggered the oil leak, prompting speculation the
company may be taken over.  
 The Sunday Times reported Exxon Mobil Corp., based in
Irving, Texas, has been told by the U.S. government it can look
at a potential bid for BP. The newspaper cited unidentified
people.  
 Cobham rallied 2.5 percent to 234.2 pence. BofA-Merrill
Lynch upgraded the world’s largest maker of airborne-refueling
equipment to “buy” from “neutral” as analysts forecast an
increase in defense spending for electronics, systems,
communications and technology.  
 Kazakhmys, Kazakhstan’s biggest copper mining company,
declined 2.9 percent to 1,057 pence as  gauge  of mining shares
snapped a four-day rally. Rio Tinto Group slid 2.2 percent to
3,102.5 pence and BHP Billiton Ltd. fell 1.5 percent to 1,825
pence.  
 Copper fell in London after imports by China, the world’s
largest metals consumer, declined in June, signaling that demand
growth may be weakening. Zinc, nickel and lead also retreated.  
 Kier Group Plc  jumped 3.4 percent to 975 pence after the
U.K. company that helped build the Channel Tunnel said full-year
pretax profit will be toward the “upper end” of the current
range of analyst estimates.  
 Ashmore Group Plc  surged 6.4 percent to 268.4 pence as HSBC
Holdings Plc raised its recommendation for the fund manager to
“overweight” from “neutral.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Nick Nelson, a strategist at UBS AG, talks about the outlook for the second-quarter earnings season in Europe.
     He speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
