-- Strauss-Kahn Says Asia Should Prepare for Shocks With Stronger Currencies
-- Eunkyung Seo
-- 2010-07-12T09:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/strauss-kahn-says-asia-should-prepare-for-shocks-with-stronger-currencies.html

          
          
             Asian nations need to be prepared
for potential shocks, including a surge in capital inflows, even
as the region demonstrates resilience to Europe’s fiscal woes,
the head of the International Monetary Fund said.  
 Excessive capital movement “creates instability,” IMF
Managing Director  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said at the Asia 21
high-level conference in the South Korean city of Daejeon.
Policy makers need to cope “through different tools, including
revaluation of the currency, accumulation of reserves,
prudential rules, and if necessary as we’ve seen on a temporary
basis, capital control was absolutely needed.”  
 Asian economies have led the global economy, sparking the
risk of a flood of capital that could push up asset prices, and
regulators from South Korea to Indonesia have taken measures to
head off currency volatility. The region should boost domestic
consumption and investment to sustain growth, Strauss-Kahn said.  
 The IMF last week projected Asia would expand 7.75 percent
this year, compared with global growth of 4.6 percent. The
Washington-based fund also warned that financial-market turmoil
has increased risks to the world’s recovery.  
 Strauss-Kahn said today the IMF and South Korea are working
on crisis-prevention tools for an effective global financial
safety net to support Asian and other emerging economies
vulnerable to external shocks. In an interview, he declined to
comment on the specifics of the plans as the discussions have
yet to conclude.  
 Currency Policy  
 Strauss-Kahn warned that exchange-rate gains won’t be a
panacea for global trade imbalances. The administration of U.S.
President  Barack Obama  is pressing China to allow a stronger
yuan to help diminish the nation’s trade surplus, which was a
wider-than-forecast $20 billion in June, a government report
showed July 10.  
 “Even full appreciation of the renminbi will not solve
imbalances,” Strauss-Kahn said in the interview, using another
term for China’s currency.  
 The yuan has strengthened 0.8 percent since officials ended
a fixed peg of 6.83 per dollar last month. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forward contracts climbed 0.1 percent to 6.6579 per
dollar as of 3:45 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, signaling an appreciation of 1.7 percent from the
yuan’s spot rate of 6.7715 per dollar, according to the China
Foreign Exchange Trade System.  
 Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, said in his
earlier remarks that the Bank of Korea’s interest-rate increase
last week reflected strong economic growth, with the nation’s
actual output fast approaching its potential pace.  
 The BOK today increased its 2010 growth forecast to 5.9
percent from the 5.2 percent projected in April, after boosting
its benchmark interest rate by a quarter point to 2.25 percent
on July 9, the first increase since the global crisis.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        