-- U.K. Treasury Minister Urges Banks to Moderate Bonuses, Warns of New Levy
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-07-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/u-k-minister-urges-banks-to-moderate-bonuses-warns-of-new-levies.html

          
          
             Treasury minister  Mark Hoban  urged
banks to show restraint over bonuses as Britain emerges from
recession and said the government is continuing to explore the
introduction of a Financial Activities Tax on profits and pay.  
 Hoban said he will begin consulting the industry from today
on how to implement a separate 2 billion-pound ($3 billion) levy
on bank balance sheets announced last month.  
 “I don’t need to tell you that the next bonus round will
be conducted against a background of continued pressure in the
private sector,” Hoban told bankers at a dinner in London last
night. “By visibly reforming the way they operate, banks can
show that they exist to serve the whole economy, not just their
own interests.”  
 The threat of further taxes to prevent excessive bonuses
comes as Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  seeks the
deepest cuts in government spending since World War II to reduce
the record deficit.  
 Standard & Poor’s yesterday maintained its negative outlook
on Britain’s top credit rating, saying its projections for the
economy are less optimistic than those in the June 22 emergency
budget.  
 Banks are not solely to blame for the sovereign debt
crisis,  Angela Knight , chief executive officer of the British
Bankers’ Association, said at last night’s event.  
 “The desire to punish only the banks continues,” she said.
“That in turn risks the wrong actions being taken as we
continue down the path of regulatory and other changes.”  
 ‘Fair and Stable’  
 Hoban told bankers they need to show that the banking
system now operates in a “fair and stable” manner that “no
longer rewards employees based on short-term performance whilst
leaving investors and taxpayers exposed to the long-term
risks.”  
 To discourage such behavior, the government will continue
to work on a tax on profits and remuneration that Osborne in the
budget said he is exploring.  
 “A key way of regaining public trust will be by reforming
the system of remuneration,” Hoban said.  
 The government is already going ahead with a levy on
British banks and building societies with assets of 20 billion
pounds or more, as well as branches and subsidiaries of overseas
lenders. The Treasury will publish a document setting the terms
of the consultation on how to implement the tax in London today.  
 Britain’s five largest banks,  HSBC Holdings Plc , Barclays
Plc,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Lloyds Banking Group Plc
and Standard Chartered Plc, are expected to make a combined
profit of 28 billion pounds in 2011, according to analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 The levy, to be used for general purposes, will be set at
0.04 percent when introduced in 2011, rising to 0.07 percent,
the  Treasury  said last month.  
 Former Chancellor  Alistair Darling  introduced a one-time 50
percent levy on discretionary bonus payments exceeding 25,000
pounds. The tax raised 2.5 billion pounds, almost five times
higher that initial estimates, according to government figures.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.K. treasury minister Mark Hoban. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
