-- U.K. Gauge of House-Price Growth Slows to 11-Month Low as Home-Demand Ebbs
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-07-12T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/u-k-house-price-gauge-falls-to-11-month-low-as-demand-for-homes-weakens.html

          
          
             A U.K.  house-price gauge  fell to the
lowest level in 11 months in June as demand weakened and the
number of homes for sale surged, the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors said.  
 The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices rose exceeded those reporting declines by 9 percentage
points, compared with a reading of 21 points in May, the London-
based body said in an e-mailed report today. A separate British
Retail Consortium survey showed stores posted the biggest annual
sales gain in three months.  
 The U.K.’s housing market recovery has shown signs of
slowing this year as consumers brace for the deepest public
spending cuts since World War II. Demand fell and the
government’s decision to halt the need for sellers to provide
 Home Information Packs  helped boost the number of homes being
put up for sale to the fastest pace since May 2007, RICS said.  
 “With supply of property now beginning to outstrip demand,
there is a risk of some modest slippage in prices during the
second half of the year,” RICS spokesman  Jeremy Leaf  said in a
statement. “A shortage of stock has been one factor holding
back transaction activity in the housing market, but the
abolition of HIPS is helping to belatedly address this issue.
This is likely to be reflected in higher sales numbers over the
coming months.”  
 The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying new
buyer enquiries fell exceeded those reporting gains by 5
percentage points in June, compared with a reading of 8 points
in favor of increases the previous month, RICS said. The balance
of agents reporting more homes being put up for sale climbed to
27 percentage points from 22 points in May.  
 Price Expectations  
 The sales-to-stock ratio, a measure of slack in the housing
market, dropped to 25 percent, the lowest reading in a year,
RICS said. A measure of future price expectations decreased to
minus 4 in June, the weakest result since May last year, from a
positive reading of 4 the previous month.  
 While the Council of Mortgage Lenders said yesterday that
mortgage approvals rose 2 percent to 42,000 in May from the
previous month, they remain at less than half the total at the
housing-boom peak in 2007.  
 There is a 70 percent chance that U.K. house prices,
adjusted for inflation, will be below their peak 2007 levels in
2015 and a 50 percent chance they will still lag in 2020,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a separate statement today.  
 Retail sales values rose 1.2 percent last month from a year
earlier at stores open at least 12 months, helped by warmer
weather, the BRC said today. The gain was the biggest since
March.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 8 (Bloomberg) -- George Buckley, chief U.K. economist at Deutsche Bank AG, talks about the outlook for Bank of England monetary policy.
     All 60 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict the BOE's Monetary Policy Committee will today keep the interest rate at 0.5 percent. Buckley speaks with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's
"Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
