-- U.S. Hospitals Improving Speed, Quality of Heart-Attack Care
-- Nicole Ostrow
-- 2010-07-12T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/u-s-hospitals-improving-speed-quality-of-heart-attack-care-study-finds.html

          
          
             Hospitals in the U.S. are delivering
faster emergency care to heart-attack patients, increasing their
survival, an analysis found.  
 In 2009, 88 percent of patients with the most urgent kind
of  heart attacks  received artery-clearing procedures within the
recommended 90 minutes of arriving at the hospital, compared
with 64.5 percent in 2007, the study found. The hospitals
performed  angioplasty  and inserted stents for the emergency
patients, and for others prescribed recommended drugs to reduce
deaths and complications, according to the research published in
tomorrow’s  Journal of the American College of Cardiology .  
 The analysis showed how hospitals can meet benchmarks for
improving heart-attack care and adhere to medical guidelines,
said study author  Christopher Cannon . The report may be issued
yearly to detail the progress being made in patient care, he
said.  
 “This provides direct evidence that our efforts are
working,” said Cannon, a cardiologist at Brigham and Women’s
hospital in Boston and past chairman of the American College of
Cardiology’s heart attack registry, in a July 9 telephone
interview. “The notion of measuring how we’re doing and trying
to do even better pays off. That is likely the way health care
will improve over the coming decade, more of this measure and
improve as an approach.”  
 Within an Hour  
 This year, about 770,000 Americans will have their first
heart attack, where blood flow to the organ is suddenly cut off
or reduced, and about 430,000 will have a recurrent attack,
according to the American College of Cardiology. About 38
percent of those heart attacks will result in death. Half of
those deaths occur within one hour of symptoms occurring.  
 Researchers in the study used  guidelines  for heart-attack
care from the cardiology group and the American Heart
Association to measure how well hospitals were meeting these
benchmarks.  
 The study analyzed data from a national registry that
included almost 132,000 patients treated for heart attacks at
about 250 hospitals from January 2007 to June 2009.  
 They looked at patients with two kinds of heart attacks.
Those called  STEMI , for ST segment elevation myocardial
infarction, usually have 100 percent blockage of an artery and
need urgent care within 90 minutes of a heart attack occurring
to open the blockage, Cannon said. Those with a NSTEMI or non-
STEMI heart attack, which are almost two times more common,
usually have less blockage and don’t need emergency treatment to
unclog the artery, he said.  
 Lower Death Rate  
 The study also showed that hospital death rates among those
patients with a STEMI heart attack fell to 5.5 percent in 2009
from 6.2 percent in 2007. For those with NSTEMI, the death rate
fell to 3.9 percent from 4.3 percent.  
 “It’s wonderful news,” Cannon said. “The sooner you get
the artery, the less damage you get to the heart and the better
chance you have to survive. That became the biggest quality
improvement initiative in cardiology in the last several
years.”  
 More of the hospitals in the study also followed guidelines
for prescribing medicines to give patients aspirin or
cholesterol-lowering drugs including Lipitor from New York-based
 Pfizer Inc. , Zocor from Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based
 Merck & Co.  and Crestor from London-based  AstraZeneca Plc .
Patients also received counseling to stop smoking.  
 “This study shows that as a country, we do a good job in
treating patients with heart attack,” said study author  John
Rumsfeld , chair of the National Cardiovascular Data Registry and
acting national director of cardiology for the Veterans Affairs
Health Administration, in a statement.  
 The researchers also looked at a second database on 1.71
million people who had either angioplasty or heart
 catheterization  from January 2005 to June 2009. They found a
reduction in complications related to bleeding or injury to the
arteries that are used to pass tubes into the heart. They also
found improved use of drugs to prevent blood clots.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Ostrow  in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        