-- U.S. States' Financial Woes Aren't the Next Greece, Samson Capital Says
-- Esme E. Deprez
-- 2010-07-12T18:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/u-s-states-mounting-deficits-aren-t-the-next-greece-samson-capital-says.html

          
          
             U.S. states and municipalities
struggling with mounting budget deficits “are not in the same
precarious financial condition as Greece,” Samson Capital
Advisors said.  
 The cost of protecting U.S. municipal bonds surged this
year as investors bought insurance on U.S. state obligations
after global stocks tumbled and Europe’s debt crisis worsened.
 New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie  told members of the  Manhattan
Institute  on May 25 that the state is “careening our way toward
becoming Greece.” Even so, states aren’t on the verge of
default and such comparisons distract from more serious issues,
Samson Capital said in a July 8 report.  
 “The statement that any U.S. state is the next Greece,
meaning a near default on their bonds, is not based on fact,”
said  Judy Wesalo Temel , a principal and director of credit
research at Samson, which manages $7 billion. “Comparing the
Greek debt crisis to state and local governments is not valid
and is distracting from the real concerns about budgets.”  
 The median debt to gross domestic product of U.S. states is
2 percent, compared with Greece’s 113 percent, according to last
week’s report by Samson Capital, a New York-based fixed income
investment manager.  
 Equating  Illinois,  whose deteriorating financial position
left it with about $4.7 billion in unpaid bills at the end of
June, with the Mediterranean nation is “ridiculous,” Governor
 Pat Quinn  said as the state prepared to sell $900 million in
Build America bonds this week.  
 Bondholders Repaid  
 “Those who are investing in the market they know our bonds
have always been repaid,” Quinn said in an interview. “We have
provisions in our constitution that are very protective of those
who purchase bonds. I have the power to step in and make sure
all bondholders are fully paid.”  
 Financial credit-default swaps approached a record high in
Europe last month amid concern that Greece, Portugal and Spain
may be forced to restructure debt to narrow budget deficits that
are more than three times the European Union limit.  
 The ability to balance operating budgets, rather than
service debt, is the biggest difficulty states confront, Temel
said. As tax revenue continues to fall in most states in the
recession’s wake, they face greater political conflict and will
have to tap funding from programs including education, health
and transportation to help fund pension expenditures.  
 The median debt service as a percentage of state
expenditures is 3 percent, “a fraction of Greece’s debt
burden,” according to the report, while state pension
contributions were “relatively small” at 2.9 percent in 2008.  
 Illinois Pension  
 Illinois “has done little to solve a significant budget
gap and has the worst underfunded pension problem” and
California “remains challenged,” Temel said.  Texas , Colorado,
 Maryland  and Virginia “remain stronger and better managed.”  
 “We understand we have major fiscal challenges,” Quinn
said July 10 in an interview at the National Governors
Association meeting in Boston. “Our economy is growing and we
want to keep building on that growing economy to get the state
budget back in order.”  
 Illinois shares an A1 debt rating from Moody’s Investors
Service with California, the lowest among U.S. states. Illinois
ended fiscal 2010 in “the worst fiscal position in its
history” and its backlog of unpaid bills and fund transfers
rose from $2.8 billion a year earlier, State Comptroller  Dan Hynes  said in a quarterly report.  
 State budget deficits will reach a record $140 billion in
fiscal 2011, which for most states began July 1, the Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington-based research group,
said in a  June report .  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Esmé E. Deprez  in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Maine Governor John Baldacci talks about the state's finances and budget issues.
     Baldacci speaks with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
