-- U.S. Acid Rain, Smog Rules May Spur New Carbon Emissions Law, Traders Say
-- Simon Lomax
-- 2010-07-12T16:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/u-s-acid-rain-smog-rules-may-spur-new-carbon-emissions-law-traders-say.html

          
          
             The threat of power-plant closures
under the Obama administration’s planned limits on acid rain and
smog pollution should revive efforts to pass legislation this
year establishing a U.S. carbon market, an emissions trading
group said today.  
 The rules, issued last week by the  U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency , “will increase the pressure on Congress to
act” on legislation giving the owners of coal-fired plants
pollution targets that are easier to meet in exchange for new
limits on carbon dioxide, said  David Hunter , U.S. policy
director for the  International Emissions Trading Association .  
 The  Edison Electric Institute , a Washington-based trade
association representing power companies such as  American
Electric Power Co.  and  Southern Co. , has said the EPA’s new
acid-rain and smog regulations would require “dramatic” cuts
in pollution from power plants.  
 The U.S. Senate is set to debate an energy bill this month,
and the proposals under discussion include cap-and-trade
programs for acid rain, smog and carbon dioxide in which
companies buy and sell a declining number of pollution rights.  
 If Congress passes these cap-and-trade programs, a smaller
number of the coal-fired plants that generate  nearly half  the
electricity in the U.S. will likely have to be closed or
upgraded right away, Hunter said in a telephone interview. The
EPA was forced to issue tougher acid-rain and smog rules last
week after a federal appeals court rejected a pollution trading
plan put forward by the agency in 2005, he said.  
 “It shows the importance of Congress passing a clear law
based on trading,” Hunter said of the EPA’s new rules. Without
cap-and-trade programs for different pollutants, including
carbon dioxide, “it gets to be a whole lot more expensive and
you’ll force premature closures” of power plants, he said.  
 The emissions trading group is based in Geneva and its
members include  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  General Electric
Co. , according to its  website .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Lomax  in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        