-- Treasury Notes Rise as Stocks, Futures Decline, Spurring Demand for Safety
-- Keith Jenkins
-- 2010-07-12T14:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/u-s-10-year-treasury-notes-advance-as-global-equity-markets-decline.html

          
          
             Treasuries traded near a two-week
low as stocks fluctuated before U.S. earnings season begins
today and the government sells $35 billion in three-year
securities, the first of three note and bond auctions this week.  
 Yields on 10- and 30-year securities pared declines and
were almost at the highest level since June 28. The U.S. this
week will also sell $21 billion in 10-year notes and $13 billion
in 30-year bonds.  
 “Markets are taking a breather ahead of Treasury supply
coming this week and earnings, which will be the single largest
determinant of Treasury and stock performance,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. in
New York.  
 The 10-year  note  yield dropped 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.04 percent at 10:53 a.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The yield, which touched 3.06
percent on July 9, earlier fell as much as 5 basis points. The
3.5 percent security due May 2020 rose 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000
face amount, to 103 7/8. The  30-year  yield was at 4.03 percent,
compared with a two-week high of 4.04 percent July 9.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index declined 0.4 percent after
gaining 0.3 percent. Alcoa Inc., the largest U.S. aluminum
producer, will release earnings after the market closes today in
New York. The  MSCI World Index  fell 0.2 percent.  
 The 10-year yield dropped to 2.88 percent on July 1, a
level not seen since April 2009, as stocks tumbled around the
world on concern European efforts to cut government spending
would slow global economic growth.  
 ‘Bullish Excess’  
 Treasury yields rose at the end of last week as investors
gained confidence in the global economy’s ability to overcome
Europe’s debt crisis, curbing demand for the haven of U.S.
securities.  
 “We have too much bullish excess that needs to be worked
off in the near-term,”  William O’Donnell , U.S. government bond
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stamford,
Connecticut, wrote in a note to clients. The firm is one of 18
primary dealers that trade with the Federal Reserve and are
required to bid in Treasury auctions. “We’ve come a long way,
and stats show that many are already long.” A long position is
a bet a security will gain.  
 The U.S. three-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded
1.047 percent in pre-auction trading, which would be a record
low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 ‘Big News’  
 “Today the big news will be the three-year auction, which
should go well as the front end has been holding in, given the
perception that the Fed will be on hold for even longer into the
future,” said  Martin Mitchell , head government bond trader at
the Baltimore unit of Stifel Nicolaus & Co., a St. Louis-based
brokerage firm.  
 The 1.2 percent  yield  at the January 2009 auction was the
least on record. Last month’s three-year auction, on June 8,
drew a yield of 1.22 percent. Investors  bid  for 3.23 times the
amount on offer, versus an average of 3.06 at the past 10 sales.  
 Indirect  bidders , a group that includes foreign central
banks, bought 46.7 percent of the debt, versus an average of
52.3 percent at the past 10 sales.  
 President  Barack Obama  has increased the U.S. marketable
 debt  to a record $7.96 trillion as he tries to sustain the
economic expansion. The U.S. economy will grow 3.3 percent this
year and 2.9 percent in 2011, the International Monetary Fund
said on July 7.  
 Tough Time  
 Still, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said small businesses
are having a tough time getting loans they need to expand or
stay afloat and keep the U.S. economic recovery going.  
 “Making credit accessible to sound small businesses is
crucial to our economic recovery and so should be front and
center among our current policy challenges,” Bernanke said
today in Washington to a conference on small businesses.  
 Record bond yields in Europe are proving too good to miss
for  Michiel de Bruin  at F&C Asset Management as predictions of
imminent sovereign defaults subside.  
 “We are still buying across the market,” said de Bruin,
who oversees $32 billion of European government debt at F&C in
Amsterdam. “In our central scenario, we expect that the
nervousness around European sovereign bonds will dissipate.”  
 Investments in so-called peripheral nations are paying off
as bonds of  Portugal  rallied 7.2 percent,  Ireland  gained 4.8
percent and  Italy  2.2 percent since May 7, just before the
European Union announced its 750 billion-euro ($942 billion)
bailout fund for the region’s debt-laden governments. Even
 Greece’s  securities climbed 13.4 percent, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  
 F&C, London’s Baring Asset Management and UBI Pramerica SGR
SpA in Milan are betting that accelerated budget cuts will
reduce deficits as Europe’s economy improves.  
 Traders reduced bets Fed policy makers will raise the
benchmark interest rate, which has been at a record low range of
zero to 0.25 percent since 2008, by their December meeting,
according to futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange. The chances
fell to 14 percent yesterday, from 27 percent a month ago.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        