-- U.S. Stocks Advance Before Alcoa Kicks Off Earnings Season
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-12T21:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/u-s-stock-index-futures-retreat-as-exxon-apache-decline-in-europe-trade.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, adding to gains
from the biggest weekly rally in a year for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, as analyst upgrades of technology companies
boosted optimism before the start of the earnings season.  
 SanDisk Corp.  surged 6.8 percent as UBS AG advised buying
the shares, while Qualcomm Inc. jumped 3.5 percent as Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. added the stock to its “conviction buy” list.
Hewitt Associates Inc. surged 32 percent after Aon Corp. agreed
to buy the consulting company. Alcoa Inc. lost 0.6 percent
before starting the second-quarter earnings season by reporting
results after exchanges closed.  
 The  S&P 500  rose 0.1 percent to 1,078.75 as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The benchmark for U.S. stocks rallied 5.4 percent last
week, its biggest gain since July 2009. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  increased 18.24 points, or 0.2 percent, to 10,216.27.  
 “People think the technology sector is the best place to
find companies that will surprise during earnings season,” said
 Frank Ingarra , a Stamford, Connecticut-based money manager at
Hennessy Advisors Inc., which oversees about $800 million. “If
companies are not hiring people because of economic and
political uncertainty, then they will invest in technology to
become more productive.”  
 Profits for S&P 500 companies are projected to have
increased 34 percent in the April-June period and by the same
amount in 2010, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 A total of 23 companies in the S&P 500, including  Google
Inc.  and Citigroup Inc., will report earnings this week.  
 S&P 500 Rebound  
 The S&P 500 rebounded last week from a 10-month low as the
International Monetary Fund raised its growth forecast and
investors speculated a 16 percent selloff since April was
overdone given the outlook for earnings.  
 “We are in a neutral trading environment as we are waiting
for earnings season to start,” said  James W. Gaul , a money
manager at Boston Advisors LLC in Boston, which oversees about
$1.9 billion. “We had a massive rally last week and now we’re
waiting for the next piece of meaningful news. We will be
looking for a combination of earnings growth and forward-looking
comments.”  
 Alcoa  unofficially started the reporting season today when
it reported second-quarter earnings after the close of trading
in New York. Profit from continuing operations was 13 cents a
share, beating the average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg by 14 percent.  
 Alcoa  
 The stock fell 0.6 percent to $10.87 at the close. In
extended trading after the close, it rallied 3 percent to
$11.20. Materials producers declined the most of 10 industry
groups in the S&P 500 in regular trading.  
 Hewitt rallied 32 percent to $46.79. Aon, the world’s
largest insurance broker, agreed to buy Hewitt for $4.9 billion
in cash and stock to expand its division advising companies on
employee pay and benefits. Aon dropped 7.1 percent to $35.62 for
the biggest decline in the S&P 500.  
 The benchmark index for U.S. stock  options  retreated for a
seventh day, the longest losing streak since March, and closed
at the lowest level in a month. The  VIX , as the  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index  is known, fell 2.2 percent to
24.43. The S&P 500 traded in a 0.96 percentage point range
between today’s intraday high and low, 43 percent below the 1.7
percentage point average daily swing for the past four weeks.  
 SanDisk surged 6.8 percent to $45.81. The flash-data
storage company was raised to “buy” from “neutral” at UBS.  
 Qualcomm  
 Qualcomm  rose 3.5 percent to $35.10 as Goldman Sachs added
the largest phone-chip producer to its “conviction buy” list,
citing accelerating smartphone growth.  
 Computer and software shares have slumped to the lowest
valuations in two decades, a sign to Barclays Wealth and UBS AG
they will rebound as S&P 500 companies start spending their
record cash.  
 Technology companies in the S&P 500 fell as much as 17
percent this year, pushing prices down to 15.6 times reported
annual income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 biggest  industry in the index hasn’t been this cheap since at
least 1992, excluding the six months between Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy and the start of the bull market in
March 2009.  
 Tech Rally  
 S&P 500 technology companies gained 0.7 percent as a group
in today’s trading, the most among the 10 major  industries  in
the S&P 500. Indexes of utility and consumer-staples companies
had the second- and third-biggest gains.  
 Microsoft Corp.  rose the  most  in the Dow, advancing 2.3
percent to $24.83. The world’s biggest software maker will work
with Hewlett-Packard Co., Dell Inc. and Fujitsu Ltd. to sell
powerful server computers installed with Microsoft’s Azure
cloud-computing software.  
 BP Plc ’s U.S. shares gained 8 percent to $36.76. The
company battling to contain the biggest oil spill in U.S.
history in the Gulf of Mexico rose on reports it is selling
assets in Alaska and  Exxon Mobil Corp.  may consider a bid for
the company.  
 Playboy Enterprises Inc.  surged 41 percent to $5.55. The
publisher of the namesake men’s magazine said founder  Hugh Hefner  proposed taking the company private by buying the
outstanding shares he doesn’t already own for $5.50 a share.  
 Wal-Mart  
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  climbed 1.4 percent to $50.12. The
world’s biggest retailer may rise as much as 33 percent as it
boosts sales by expanding its online business and opens stores
in urban centers, Barron’s reported, citing analysts.  
 Mosaic Co. plunged 7.9 percent to $42.48. The world’s
largest manufacturer of phosphate fertilizer told workers at its
South Fort Meade, Florida, phosphate mine that the facility may
be closed indefinitely because of a legal challenge by
environmental groups.  
 Weyerhaeuser Co. advanced the most in the S&P 500, surging
8.4 percent to $38.86. The second-largest owner of U.S.
timberland declared a record $5.6 billion special dividend to
lock in the company’s conversion this year to a real estate
investment trust.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The benchmark for U.S. stocks rallied 5.4 percent last week, its biggest gain since July 2009. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Paul Lountzis, founder of Lountzis Asset Management LLC, discusses his investment strategy for insurers.
     Lountzis also discusses prospects for Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and Progressive Corp. Lountzis speaks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Barry Knapp, head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays Capital, discusses the outlook for second-quarter corporate earnings.
     Knapp speaks with Betty Liu, Sheila Dharmarajan and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks rose, adding to gains from the biggest weekly rally in a year for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as analyst upgrades of technology companies boosted optimism before the start of the earnings season. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
