-- UBS Hires JPMorgan's Zanoli to Head Americas Technology Investment Banking
-- Serena Saitto
-- 2010-07-12T15:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/ubs-hires-jpmorgan-s-zanoli-to-head-americas-technology-investment-banking.html

          
          
             UBS AG  hired JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
 Mark Zanoli  as head of technology investment banking for the
Americas as part of the Swiss bank’s plan to target more deals
in the industry.  
 Zanoli, 44, will be based in San Francisco and will start
on Oct. 1 reporting to  Aryeh Bourkoff , joint global head of
technology, media and telecommunications banking, according to
an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 “This important hire demonstrates our commitment to a
growing franchise within our TMT practice and complements our
existing team,” Bourkoff, 37, said in a phone interview. “TMT
is one of our growth areas and I expect to continue to make
targeted hires in the sector in the coming years.”  
 Zanoli joins Zurich-based UBS after  Richard Leaman , the
chairman and former head of UBS’s investment banking department,
left last week to join Moelis & Co., the New York-based
investment bank founded by former UBS executive  Kenneth Moelis .
Zanoli replaces  Brian Webber , who joined Moelis in May.  
 “Over the course of the next 12 to 18 months, we expect to
see steady growth in technology deals led by initial public
offerings and acquisitions,” said Bourkoff. “We believe in the
integration of technology within TMT given there are many
companies that sit on the bridge between media and technologies
such as Hulu LLC, Google Inc., Cisco Systems Inc., Tivo Inc.”  
 Zanoli, who brings 17 years of experience in banking, joins
from JPMorgan, where he was a managing director and served in
senior roles, including head of technology banking, head of
communications technology banking and, most recently, in clean
technology banking.  
 BSkyB, Bresnan  
 UBS’s Americas technology team has bankers in San
Francisco, Los Angeles and New York. The Swiss firm is beefing
up its TMT team, which is advising British Sky Broadcasting
Group PLC on the $11.5 billion offer by News Corp. to acquire
the 61 percent stake in of BSkyB that it doesn’t already own.  
 UBS advised Bresnan Communications Co. on its sale to
Cablevision Systems Corp. for about $1.4 billion last month.
Last year, UBS advised Comcast Corp. on its $37.5 billion joint
venture with General Electric Co.’ NBC Universal media unit and
Charter Communications Inc. on its $21 billion bankruptcy
restructuring.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        