-- Uganda Bomb Attacks May Herald Spread of Somali Conflict Into East Africa
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-13T09:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/uganda-bomb-attacks-may-herald-spread-of-somali-conflict-into-east-africa.html

          
          
             The bombings in Uganda that left 74
people dead signaled that Somali Islamists are carrying their
three-year fight for power to the rest of East Africa, said
analysts including Scott Stewart at Stratfor.  
 Al-Shabaab, which the U.S. has  designated  as a terrorist
organization with links to al-Qaeda, yesterday claimed
responsibility for the July 11 attacks at a restaurant and a
sports club in Uganda’s capital, Kampala. The blasts occurred
while patrons were watching the final of the soccer World Cup.  
 Al-Shabaab said it targeted Uganda because of that nation’s
deployment of troops to serve an African Union-led peacekeeping
force in Mogadishu, Somalia’s capital. It threatened a similar
attack on Burundi unless its troops are withdrawn. Uganda has
2,700 soldiers in Somalia and Burundi has 2,550, according to
the website of the  Francophone Research Network on Peace
Operations .  
 “It looks like al-Shabaab has taken the first step toward
becoming transnational,” said Scott Stewart, vice president of
tactical intelligence at Stratfor, the Austin, Texas-based
intelligence group. “They’ve clearly shown they have an intent
to strike outside of Somalia. Now the big question is to try and
find out how far the reach is.”  
 Islamist militias including al-Shabaab and Hisb-ul-Islam
have been battling Somalia’s government since 2007 and now
control most of southern and central Somalia, as well as parts
of Mogadishu. Both groups have said they want to impose Islamic
Shariah law on the Horn of Africa nation, which hasn’t had a
functioning central administration since the ouster of former
dictator  Mohamed Siad Barre  in 1991.  
 Arrests  
 Ugandan police late yesterday arrested people suspected of
carrying out the attacks, Inspector-General Kale Kayihura told
reporters today. Ball bearings found in an unexploded suicide
vest in a nightclub in Kampala were similar to fragments found
at the bomb sites, he said.  
 Last week, the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development,
a Djibouti-based body that groups six East African countries,
called for the peacekeeping mission in Somalia to deploy an
additional 2,000 soldiers to help the government battle
“extremist groups.”  
 IGAD, as the group is known, includes  Djibouti , Ethiopia,
Kenya, Somalia, Sudan and Uganda.  
 The organization “calls upon the international community
and its member states to strengthen the economic and military
support” for Somalia’s government to fight terrorism,” the
organization said in a statement handed to reporters in Kenya’s
capital, Nairobi, today.  
 ‘Sends a Message’  
 The attack “sends a message to those countries who are
thinking of sending troops to Somalia: ‘This is the fate that
awaits you,’”  Rashid Abdi , a Nairobi-based analyst at the
International Crisis Group, said in a phone interview.  
 The U.S. ended its two-year “Operation Restore Hope”
mission in Somalia, which involved as many as 33,000 U.S. and
United Nations forces, after the downing of two American
helicopters in Mogadishu in October 1994, an incident made
famous by  Mark Bowden ’s book “Black Hawk Down.”  
 U.S. citizen Nate Henn, who worked as a volunteer with the
charity  Invisible Children , was among those killed in the
Kampala bombings, according to the website of the group, which
aims to end the recruitment of child soldiers in northern
Uganda. Another five injured Americans will receive medical
treatment in South Africa, Joann Lockard, the U.S. Embassy’s
spokeswoman in Kampala, said today by phone.  
 Peacekeepers  
 Peacekeepers are in Somalia to help stabilize the country
and end one of the world’s worst humanitarian crises. About 1.5
million people are displaced within the country and more than
560,000 people are living as refugees in neighboring countries,
the  UN Refugee Agency  said in January. At least 3.2 million
people in the country depend on humanitarian aid, according to
the  World Food Programme .  
 Al-Shabaab has previously threatened to attack Kenya, which
it accused of recruiting ethnic Somalis living in the country to
fight against the militia. An estimated 300,000 Somali refugees
are being sheltered at the UN’s Dadaab refugee camp in Kenya.  
 One of the establishments targeted in Uganda was an
Ethiopian restaurant. That “may not be a coincidence,” said
 Gus Selassie , an analyst at IHS Global Insight, with Ethiopia’s
government being seen as a chief backer of the Somali
administration.  
 Consequences  
 “It’s meant to send a signal to others in the region,
mostly Ethiopia, that meddling in Somali affairs, whether its
peacekeeping or occupation, would have consequences,” said
 Philippe de Pontet , Africa analyst at New York-based Eurasia
Group.  
 U.S.-backed Ethiopian troops invaded Somalia in December
2006, ousting the Islamic Courts Union government that had
captured the south of the country. The army occupied Mogadishu
and the southern town of Baidoa in an effort to bolster the
government, though the forces became bogged down in a guerrilla
war with the Islamists who now control most of the country. The
Ethiopians withdrew in January 2009.  
 “Al-Shabaab hates the Ethiopians because they’re the
people that kicked the Islamic Courts out of power in
Mogadishu,” Stewart said. “They really have an axe to grind
against the Ethiopians.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah McGregor  in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A doctor treats a victim at Mulago hospital in Kampala after twin bomb blasts tore through crowds of football fans watching the World Cup final. Photographer: Trevor Snapp/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
