-- MultiPlan Said to Seek $1.3 Billion of Barclays-Led Leveraged-Buyout Loans
-- Emre Peker
-- 2010-07-12T11:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/multiplan-said-to-seek-1-3-billion-of-barclays-led-leveraged-buyout-loans.html

          
          
             MultiPlan Inc., the health-care
cost-management company that BC Partners Ltd. and Silver Lake
agreed to buy from Carlyle Group and Welsh, Carson, Anderson &
Stowe, is seeking about $1.3 billion in loans for the
transaction, according to people familiar with the negotiations.  
 Barclays Plc will arrange the loans to help finance the
buyout that values the company at $3.1 billion, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the terms are private.  
 Bank of America Corp. will arrange about $650 million to
$675 million of bonds to help pay for the purchase, said two of
the people familiar with the talks.  
 Susan Mohler, a spokeswoman for New York-based MultiPlan,
declined to comment. The company said July 9 that Credit Suisse
Group AG, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays Capital,
the investment banking division of Barclays, are co-lead
arrangers on the proposed debt financing.  
 Following the buyout announcement on July 9, Moody’s
Investors Service said that MultiPlan’s corporate family rating
is unchanged at B2, five levels below investment grade.  
 BC Partners, based in London, manages a 5.8 billion-euro
($7.3 billion) private-equity fund, and Menlo Park, California-
based Silver Lake is the world’s largest private-equity investor
in technology.  
 MultiPlan has $1.39 billion of debt of which $1.12 billion
is in term loans maturing in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Existing Debt  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America arranged a
$1.19 billion credit facility in 2006 to help pay for Carlyle
and Welsh Carson’s acquisition of the company, Bloomberg data
show. The loan package consists of a $50 million revolving
credit line, a $425 million term loan B, a $360 million term
loan C and a $350 million term loan D.  
 Multiplan’s revolver had an interest rate 2.25 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate when the
credit line was established in 2006, according to Bloomberg
data. At the time, the term loan C had a margin of 2.5
percentage points over Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to
each other, and the term loan D had a spread of 4.25 percentage
points more than the lending benchmark.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emre Peker  in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        