-- VeriSign, Glaxo, Moody's, Goldman, J&J, Air France-KLM in Court News
-- Ellen Rosen
-- 2010-07-12T11:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/verisign-glaxo-moody-s-goldman-j-j-uk-defamation-in-court-news.html

          
          
             VeriSign Inc. , the biggest operator
of computers that direct Internet traffic, must face an
antitrust lawsuit claiming it overcharged for .com and .net
domain names, a federal appeals court ruled.  
 The San Francisco-based court ruled July 9 that a lower
court was wrong to dismiss a suit filed by the Coalition for
ICANN Transparency. CFIT, an organization of Web site owners,
claimed VeriSign violated antitrust laws by charging
artificially high prices for the domain names and restrained
competition in its renewal contracts, according to the ruling.  
 VeriSign, based in Mountain View, California, operates the
.com and .net domain name registries under a contract with the
Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers on behalf of
the U.S. Commerce Department.  
 In its lawsuit, CFIT asked the lower court to block
VeriSign’s registration service for expiring domain names based
on claims VeriSign attempted to monopolize that “allegedly
separate market,” according to the ruling.  
 The district court “failed to appreciate the seriousness
of the allegations of anticompetitive conduct” and by rejecting
the existence of a separate market for expiring domain names,
“improperly relied on already outdated authority,” the appeals
court said.  
 Sending the case back to district court, the appeals court
said it agrees with CFIT’s challenge of the terms and award of
contracts registering .com domain names, and with CFIT’s claim
that there’s a separate market for expiring domain names.  
 A spokeswoman for VeriSign didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  
 The case is Coalition for ICANN Transparency Inc. v.
VeriSign, 07-16151, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (San
Francisco).  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Glaxo Withheld Avandia Study, Ex-FDA Manager Said to Testify  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc  withheld from regulators a study
showing its Avandia diabetes drug may cause heart attacks, a
former U.S. Food and Drug Administration official said,
according to two people familiar with her deposition in a
lawsuit against the drugmaker.  
 Dr. Rosemary Johann-Liang, a former manager in the FDA’s
drug-safety unit, told lawyers suing Glaxo that the 2001 study
found Avandia posed a greater heart-attack risk than rival
medicines, the people said. Glaxo also didn’t turn over an e-
mail from researchers who concluded Avandia “strengthens the
signals” of heart ailments, she testified in a pre-trial
deposition last month, according to the people.  
 Johann-Liang left the FDA in 2007 following her
recommendation that London-based Glaxo add more information
about health risks to Avandia’s label, the people said. Johann-
Liang stated that FDA officials provided the drugmaker with
details of internal agency discussions about beefing up the
warnings, according to the people, who also said she testified
the leaks “should not have happened” and violated FDA policy.  
 Johann-Liang’s deposition may be considered by an FDA
advisory panel meeting this week in Washington to consider
whether Avandia’s ability to control blood-sugar levels
outweighs a possible increase in heart attacks, strokes and
deaths from cardiovascular disease, the people said. They
declined to provide a transcript of the testimony.  
 While Glaxo officials contend no studies have proven that
Avandia is dangerous, drug-safety advocates have called for the
medicine’s withdrawal from the market. Actos, a similar diabetes
drug sold by Tokyo-based Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., poses less
of a heart-attack risk, researchers have found. Glaxo withheld a
study on Actos from the FDA, Johann-Liang testified, according
to the people.  
 Glaxo Mary disputes Johann-Liang’s claims that it didn’t
turn over a 2001 review of Avandia’s health risks to federal
regulators, Mary Anne Rhyne, a company spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement. The company’s study “determined that there
was no signal of an increased risk for heart attacks associated
with Avandia,” Rhyne said. “GSK identified this internal
review and described its results in a Periodic Safety Update
Report that was submitted to the FDA.” Erica Jefferson, a
spokeswoman for the FDA, declined to comment beyond confirming
that Johann-Liang isn’t currently an FDA employee. Johann-Liang
didn’t return calls seeking comment.  
 Glaxo faces its first U.S. trial over Avandia in
Philadelphia federal court in October, Rhyne said.  
 Avandia was once the world’s best-selling diabetes pill,
generating annual revenue of $3 billion by 2006, including sales
of a combination pill called Avandamet. Sales plunged after a
May 2007 report in the New England Journal of Medicine linked
the drug to a 43 percent increased risk of heart attacks. That
prompted U.S. and European regulators to order Glaxo to
strengthen its warnings.  
 The case is In Re Avandia Marketing, Sales Practices and
Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  
 Moody’s, S&P, Fitch Seek to Dismiss Investors’ Negligence Suit  
 Moody’s Investors Service Inc. , Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings asked a judge July 9 to dismiss a lawsuit filed by two
California investors who claim the companies gave inflated
ratings to inferior bonds.  
 Ronald Grassi, a retired California attorney, and his wife,
a retired teacher, sued the New York-based companies over claims
they had a conflict of interest in rating  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.  mortgage-backed bonds. The companies named the
bonds “investment grade” to achieve more sales of their rating
services and didn’t downgrade the bonds until Lehman filed for
bankruptcy in 2008, Grassi said.  
 U.S. Magistrate Judge Dale A. Drozd in Sacramento threw out
the case in a March ruling, saying Grassi’s negligence and fraud
allegations weren’t specific enough. Grassi filed a more
detailed complaint in April. A similar case in state court in
San Francisco survived the companies’ request for dismissal in
May, Grassi said in a filing.  
 “I’m claiming the ratings agencies who spent 60 to 70
years becoming the only expert in town convinced everybody that
they knew what was going on,” Grassi said in a phone interview.
“When they say ‘investment grade,’ they’re saying this is a
pretty safe bond; you’ll probably get your money back and
probably get your interest payments.”  
 In court documents, the companies claim Grassi failed to
make a case that they owed him a “duty of care,” which is
required to support his negligence claim. Grassi’s second
complaint still lacks “substantive allegations about the
ratings of the Lehman bonds” and doesn’t include allegations
that the companies “made any false statements in connection
with the specific bonds at issue in this case,” they said in
court filings. As with similar suits filed in other states, the
companies also argue that credit ratings are statements of
opinion protected by the Constitution’s First Amendment.  
 In January, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s won dismissal of
a lawsuit seeking to hold them responsible for defrauding
investors who bought about $100 billion of mortgage-backed
securities. Connecticut and Ohio also sued the ratings
companies.  
 Fitch is a unit of Paris-based  Fimalac SA  and Moody’s is a
unit of  Moody’s Corp . Standard & Poor’s is a unit of  McGraw-Hill
Cos.   
 The case is Grassi v. Moody’s, 09-00543, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  
 New Suits  
 Goldman Sachs Sued by Liberty on Fannie Mae Offering  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  was accused in a lawsuit by
Liberty Mutual Insurance Co. of misleading investors in 2007
when it sold Fannie Mae preferred shares while betting against
the U.S. mortgage market.  
 Goldman Sachs misrepresented Fannie Mae’s  health  when it
underwrote the offerings, in which the insurer invested $62.5
million, according to a complaint filed July 8 in federal court
in Boston. The investment bank misstated the purpose of the sale
by saying the offering was to raise  surplus capital  when it was
actually needed to help Fannie Mae sustain its business, said
Liberty Mutual, which accused Goldman Sachs of securities fraud.  
 “As a knowledgeable and sophisticated investor in the U.S.
real estate financial  markets , and with access to Fannie Mae’s
financial records, Goldman Sachs knew or recklessly disregarded
the actual status of Fannie Mae’s capital structure,” Liberty
Mutual said in the complaint. The mortgage guarantor was seized
by the U.S. in 2008.  
 Michael DuVally, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, said the suit was without merit “and we will contest it
vigorously.”  
 Goldman Sachs has come under fire from Congress and
regulators for its underwriting and investments as mortgage
markets collapsed during the credit crisis. The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission sued Goldman Sachs in April, claiming it
sold a collateralized debt obligation without disclosing that a
hedge fund helped pick underlying securities and bet against the
vehicles. Goldman Sachs has denied wrongdoing.  
 At the time that it was underwriting the Fannie Mae
offering, Goldman was aware that there were “significant
problems” in the real estate market and bet its own money
against subprime-mortgage-related securities, Liberty Mutual
said in the complaint, which drew on documents collected by the
U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.  
 The documents, including internal Goldman Sachs e-mails,
establish that during the time leading up to the disputed
offerings, “Goldman Sachs not only knew about the serious risks
in the  mortgage market , but it was urgently moving to short the
mortgage market,” the suit says.  
 Rich Angevine, a spokesman for Liberty Mutual, declined to
comment. The Boston-based company is owned by policyholders and
isn’t publicly traded.  
 The case is Liberty Mutual v. Goldman Sachs, 10-cv-11150,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  
 J&J Sued by Consumers Over Children’s Cold, Allergy Medicines  
 Johnson & Johnson , the world’s largest health-products
company, was sued by U.S. consumers accusing it of fraud and
racketeering, and demanding cash refunds for recalled children’s
cold and allergy medicines.  
 In five complaints seeking class-action, or group, status
filed July 8 in federal court in Chicago, the consumers spurned
an offer by J&J’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare and McNeil-PPC Inc.
units for refund coupons and demanded  cash .  
 The coupons are “worthless” because McNeil has stopped
making the medicines and “wrongly assumes that all consumers
will want to purchase the company’s children’s products at some
uncertain future date,” according to the  complaints .  
 The companies on April 30 recalled more than 40 types of
pediatric pain and allergy drugs saying their quality and
potency didn’t meet internal requirements. Among the products it
named were children’s formulations of liquid Tylenol, Motrin and
Benadryl. J&J’s over-the-counter medicines and nutritionals  unit 
had  revenue  of $1.21 billion in the first quarter.  
 Bonnie Jacobs, a spokeswoman for New Brunswick, New Jersey-
based J&J, said consumers can request a refund or coupon at
 mcneilproductrecall.com . She declined to comment further, saying
that as a policy the company doesn’t discuss litigation.  
 The complaints say that purchasers who have used up or
thrown out the drugs without keeping receipts won’t be able to
avail themselves of the company’s recall.  
 The suits seek to proceed on behalf of plaintiffs’ groups
for residents of Illinois, Texas and Florida, as well as
consumers in the U.S. and Canada, who have bought the drugs
since December 2008.  
 The cases are Burrell v. McNeil Consumer Healthcare,
10cv4252; DeGroot v. McNeil Consumer Healthcare, 10cv4253;
Michaud v. McNeil Consumer Healthcare, 10cv4254; Nguyen v.
McNeil Consumer Healthcare, 10cv4255; Roberson v. McNeil
Consumer Healthcare, 10cv4256, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Air France-KLM Agrees to $87 Million Cargo Price Settlement  
 Air France-KLM  Group and its Martinair Holland unit agreed
to pay $87 million to settle class-action lawsuits in the U.S.
accusing them of fixing prices for air-cargo shipments.  
 The deal, which must be approved by a judge in New York,
will resolve claims by companies that purchased shipping
services to and from the U.S. by Air France, KLM and Martinair
between 2000 and 2006, the carriers said today in a statement.  
 The cases were filed in 2006 after the U.S. and the
European Union began probing dozens of companies, leading to a
series of settlements, fines and plea agreements by airlines and
executives. Air France, KLM and Martinair reached plea deals in
2008 to end the U.S. probe. The EU investigation is pending, Air
France said.  
 The probe was disclosed by U.S. and European Union
officials in February 2006. The EU issued complaints to 26
airlines the next year, after what regulators said were the
largest coordinated antitrust raids. Regulators in South Korea,
Canada and Australia have also fined carriers.  
 Cargo airlines often work together to carry freight,
setting aside as much as 10 percent of space for partners.
Carriers’ price structures include surcharges that change
depending on factors such as oil prices and security measures.  
 A call to Air France wasn’t immediately returned. EU
spokeswoman  Amelia Torres  declined to immediately comment on the
status of the probe.  
 Legislation  
 U.K. to Review Defamation Laws, Stem Flow of Libel Tourists  
 The U.K. will review its anti-defamation laws to protect
freedom of speech after the nation became the destination of
choice for libel cases against journalists, academics and
scientists.  
 The government plans to propose legislation next year
following a public consultation, Justice Minister Tom McNally
said July 9.  
 The U.K.’s strongly defined anti-defamation laws have
encouraged so-called libel tourism where overseas firms and
individuals pursue cases through the British courts.  
 “We want to ensure that the right balance is achieved so
people who have been defamed are able to take action to protect
their reputation but so that freedom of speech is not
unjustifiably impeded,” McNally told lawmakers in the upper
 House of Lords .  
 Peta Buscombe, a Conservative lawmaker and chairman of
newspaper watchdog, the Press Complaints Commission, told
lawmakers during the same debate that changes are “overdue.”  
 Labour Party lawmaker David Triesman, who stood down as
chairman of the Football Association after a newspaper reported
a private conversation in which he criticized other nations,
said a “savage”  media should not be given greater powers.  
 “I have seen some newspapers, journalists and proprietors
-- although by no means all of them -- savage people who did not
deserve it and had no equal chance of fighting their corner,”
Triesman said in the same debate on July 9.  
 Changes should be made to the costs of bringing and
defending libel actions, which can cost “millions of pounds,”
said Dan Tench, a partner at Olswang LLP in London.  
 “Many would say the real issue in respect to our libel law
is to do with the costs,” said Tench. “There’s not very much
libel tourism,” he said. “People say it’s commonplace, but
it’s really not.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        