-- Weyerhauser to Pay $5.6 Billion to Shareholders
-- Christopher Donville
-- 2010-07-12T20:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/weyerhaeuser-to-pay-5-6-billion-special-dividend-before-changing-to-reit.html

          
          
             Weyerhaeuser Co. , the second-largest
owner of U.S. timberland, declared a record $5.6 billion special
dividend to lock in the company’s conversion this year to a real
estate investment trust. The shares rose the most in 15 months.  
 The company is making the payout to signal its
determination to convert to a REIT this year and address
investor concern that its shrinking market valuation could have
derailed the process, Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Fulton  said
in an interview. The dividend, limited to 10 percent cash with
the balance in stock, will be paid Sept. 1, the Federal Way,
Washington-based company said today.  
 “Market conditions today are not impacting our ability to
convert and we wanted to take away the uncertainty and provide
the surety for our shareholders that we will complete the
conversion this year,” Fulton, 61, said by phone.  
 Weyerhaeuser had seen its  shares  in New York tumble by a
third since their peak this year on April 23 as investors
reacted to the Greek financial crisis and concern the U.S. may
slide back into recession. Some shareholders, including Franklin
Mutual Advisers LLC, have pressured the company to become a REIT
to reduce taxes on  earnings  from its more than six million acres
of timberlands.  
 “We have the intent of converting this year,” Fulton
said.  
 Weyerhaeuser climbed $3.02, or 8.4 percent, to $38.86 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest percentage gain since April 9, 2009. The  shares  have
fallen 9.9 percent this year.  
 Plan Approve  
 Shareholders  in April approved a plan to distribute shares
as part of the planned conversion. As a REIT, most earnings from
the timberlands won’t be the subject of corporate tax before
flowing to investors. Under U.S. law, 110-year-old Weyerhaeuser
is required to pay out all undistributed earnings and profit to
shareholders to qualify to become a REIT.  
 The company’s REIT conversion would be at risk if the
company’s shares dropped to about $26 a share, or the per-share
equivalent of an estimated payout of about $5.5 billion to $5.7
billion, Chip Dillon, a New York-based analyst with Credit
Suisse Group AG, said in a May 28 note to clients. This was
“highly unlikely,” he said.  
 Questions about whether the company’s shrinking market
valuation threatened the REIT conversion this year are “moot,”
 Patricia Bedient , Weyerhaeuser’s chief financial officer, said
in the same interview with Fulton. Any declines in the company’s
market capitalization now that the dividend has been declared
are “unlikely” to disrupt the process, she said.  
 Valuation  
 Fulton also has sold assets, including Weyerhaeuser’s
cardboard box and recycling businesses to International Paper
Co. in 2008 for $6 billion, to qualify under U.S. tax rules to
become a real estate trust and to pare debt.  
 Weyerhaeuser also combined its fine paper business with
Montreal-based Domtar Corp. in 2007.  
 “The primary result of the conversion to a real estate
investment trust is to reduce taxes,” Fulton said, adding that
will also help reduce the company’s cost of capital to compete
with other timber real estate trusts.  
 Conversion would make Weyerhaeuser the fourth so-called
“timber” REIT. The others are Plum Creek Timber Co., Rayonier
Inc., and Potlatch Inc.  
 As part of the transformation, Weyerhaeuser plans to elect
conversion under U.S. tax law when it pays its 2010 taxes next
spring. That “election” will allow the company to claim REIT
status retroactively to Jan. 1, 2010.  
 Weyerhaeuser is the second-largest owner of U.S. timberland
after Seattle-based Plum Creek. Weyerhaeuser only trailed
Vancouver-based West Fraser Timber Co. in North American
softwood-lumber output in 2009, according to a Weyerhaeuser
spokesman.  
 (Weyerhaeuser scheduled a conference call with investors
for 8:30 a.m. New York time today at +1-877-296-9413. The
passcode is 84047456.)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Daniel Fulton, president and chief executive officer of Weyerhaeuser Co., listens to a question during a meeting in New York. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
