-- Wheat Falls for Second Session as Crop Yields in Kansas Exceed Forecasts
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-12T19:56:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/wheat-falls-for-second-session-as-crop-yields-in-kansas-exceed-forecasts.html

          
          
             Wheat fell for the second straight
session on signs that farmers are harvesting better yields than
expected in Kansas, the largest U.S. producer of winter
varieties.  
 Parts of northwestern Kansas are getting 50 to 60 bushels
an acre on average, said  Darrell Holaday , the president of
Advanced Market Concepts in Manhattan, Kansas. That’s at least
23 percent more than the 40.7 bushels forecast by participants
on a tour of the area in May, before the harvest began. The U.S.
is the world’s biggest wheat exporter.  
 “You wouldn’t believe what they’re bringing in,” Holaday
said. “Western Kansas is setting the world on fire. They’re
storing wheat on the ground in northwestern Kansas, and they’re
not done yet.”  
 Wheat futures for September delivery fell 2.25 cents, or
0.4 percent, to $5.3575 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price has jumped 17 percent in the past month, partly
because of concern that global output will decline, erasing a
surplus.  
 On the Kansas City Board of Trade, wheat gained on
speculation that grain depots are withholding supplies to
collect storage fees through the end of this year rather than
sell for immediate delivery, where prices are 60 cents to 70
cents a bushel less, Holaday said.  
 “The futures are elevated by the fact that the markets are
paying way more for storage, so nobody delivers,” Holaday said.  
 Kansas City wheat futures for September delivery rose 1.25
cents, or 0.2 percent, to $5.545 a bushel. The most-active
contract has risen 19 percent in the past month.  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        