-- World Cup Final Teams Didn't Help `Fair Play,' Fifa's Sepp Blatter Says
-- Tariq Panja
-- 2010-07-12T14:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/world-cup-final-teams-didn-t-help-fair-play-fifa-s-sepp-blatter-says.html

          
          
             The Netherlands and Spain, which
combined for a record number of yellow cards in last night’s
World Cup final, didn’t help soccer’s spirit of “fair play,”
FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said.  
 Spain won 1-0 to claim its first world title in a match
that will be remembered for foul play and the 14 yellow cards
brandished by English referee  Howard Webb .  
 “The final was not exactly what I expected in terms of
fair play,” Blatter, head of soccer’s governing body, told
reporters in Johannesburg today.  
 Dutch players and their coach  Bert van Marwijk  blamed the
Netherlands’ third World Cup final defeat on Webb and his two
assistants. Nine cautions went to the Dutch, including two for
 John Heitinga  who was sent off as a result.  
 “It’s not up to me judge the performances of the
officials, I can only say it was a very hard task that the
referee trio had on the field of play,” Blatter said. “It was
not easy, really not easy, and they were really not helped in
this task.”  
 He refused to give his views on the tactics adopted by the
Netherlands.  
 “Even though I have seen all the irregularities as a
spectator, I cannot answer this question as president of FIFA,”
he said. “I could answer it as a fan of football but I am here
as president.”  
 Surrounded Referee  
 Protesting Dutch players surrounded Webb at the final
whistle. Heitinga, who had been banished to the changing room
following his expulsion, had to be restrained by his team’s
coaching staff from getting to the official, who at 38 was the
youngest to referee a final for 72 years.  
 “Well, I don’t think the referee controlled the match,”
Van Marwijk said.  
 After the game, Netherlands winger  Arjen Robben  and
midfielder  Nigel de Jong  questioned calls made by Webb,
particularly his decision to wave play on when Robben appeared
to have been pulled back in front of the Spanish goal.  
 Spain got the winning goal four minutes before the end of
extra time. It came moments after the Netherlands was denied a
corner following a free kick that deflected off their opponents’
wall, prompting Dutch players to confront the linesman.  
 ‘Learn to Lose’  
 “If you have a World Cup final you need a World Cup
referee,” Robben said. The Netherlands is now the only nation
to have played in three World Cup finals and lost them all. It
was also defeated in 1974 and 1978.  
 “You have to learn to win and you have to learn to lose,
and should not forget the basis, which is discipline and
respect,” said Blatter, attending a media briefing to mark the
end of Africa’s first World Cup.  
 The previous record for yellow cards in a final was six in
Argentina’s 3-2 defeat of West Germany in the 1986 final in
Mexico City.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg through the London
sports desk at   tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        