-- World Cup Soundtrack May Be Missed: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-07-12T15:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/world-cup-soundtrack-may-be-missed-in-u-s-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             In the U.S., where there’s always
sizeable skepticism about soccer, even the vuvuzelas will be
missed. Yup, even them.  
 Not for their incessant and, okay, annoying, buzzing, but
for what the soundtrack of the now completed World Cup
signifies. The horns provided an auditory reminder of game time,
of community theater and communal celebration. Here in the U.S.,
which boasts billion-dollar industries such as the National
Football League and National Basketball Association, which
could’ve been mistaken for a league of one lately, the
soundtrack of sport is so, well, artificial. So, well, sad.  
 Forget about folks blowing horns or banging drums, except
for that persistent percussionist who, from his seat deep in the
center-field bleachers, cheers for baseball’s Cleveland Indians.  
 For the most part, there is no groundswell of spontaneous
samba, which pops up whenever and wherever Brazil plays. It just
doesn’t happen. What we get instead is a giant scoreboard, like
the one erected by the Dallas Cowboys, literally telling us,
asking us, pleading with us to make some noise.  
 The World Cup ended yesterday in Johannesburg, South
Africa, where Spain, wearing blue, and the Netherlands, in its
familiar orange, played a game that had the referee, again and
again, reaching for yellow. And red, which the Dutch surely
would regret.  
 Final score: Spain 1, the Netherlands 0. Overtime.
Beautiful, no, but the better team won.  
 Early Scoring Chance  
 There were chances for both sides. More of them for the
boys in blue. The game was barely four minutes old when Spain’s
 Sergio Ramos , a defender with a penchant for pushing forward,
was denied by a spectacular save from  Maarten Stekelenburg .  
 It was Ramos again in the 77th minute. This time, from four
yards out, he just blew it. The chance was there. The accuracy
was not. It happens. His header sailed over the crossbar.  
 Spanish substitute  Cesc Fabregas  almost played hero five
minutes into overtime. His shot, however, found Stekelenburg’s
left leg, not the back of the net. It happens. Madrid remained
mute.  
 For the Dutch,  Arjen Robben , who has enjoyed a wonderful
tournament, went one-on-one with the goalkeeper just before
Ramos’s miss. His shot nicked the goalie’s leg, bounding wide of
the target. Robben dropped his face into his hands even before
the ball had crossed the end line. It happens. Antsy in
Amsterdam.  
 Like Chess  
 You get the sense that American fans are catching on to
what the rest of the world seems to already know: That soccer’s
intrinsic appeal isn’t in the goal scoring but the buildup. It’s
chess.  
 It’s a series of advances and retreats, of try this, try
that, try something else if necessary. It’s about control and
movement, poise and positioning until the ball makes its way to
a 5-foot-7 midfielder, a newly minted and humble hero, in the
116th minute.  
 Andres Iniesta’s  right foot waited for the ball to fall,
gravity taking its sweet, sweet time, and sent it into the back
of the net.  
 Soccer is about the explosion of euphoria when all of it
comes together. Just like it did for Iniesta. Boom. Madness in
Madrid. Agony in Amsterdam. Again.  
 Americans were reminded, yet again, that athletic greatness
exists outside of  LeBron James  and  Kobe Bryant , whose Lakers
teammate,  Pau Gasol , was among those on hand. They got to know
Uruguay striker  Diego Forlan , who was voted the best player of
the tournament.  
 Donovan Scores  
 Americans won’t soon forget  Landon Donovan , who mere
moments from elimination gave U.S. soccer its water cooler
moment. Everyone was talking soccer, talking trash, speculating
on a semifinal meeting with powerhouse Brazil. The U.S. lost to
Ghana, which was the last African team standing. This was the
first World Cup whose final didn’t include Brazil, Italy,
Argentina or Germany. So there’s hope.  
 This is the World Cup where U.S. sports fans showed outrage
at wayward whistles, demanding answers and the use of technology
to get it right. They just might get it, too.  
 American sports fans were introduced to  Lionel Messi  and
reminded of  Diego Maradona , the star-turned-coach who hugged and
kissed his players.  
 So, around these parts, it’s back to baseball, where
scoreboards around the big leagues will implore fans to clap
their hands and make some noise.  
 Don’t fret, though. There’s a vuvuzela smart phone
application, a whenever-you-need-it reminder of sports as
community theater and communal celebration.  
 ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        