-- World Cup Win `Goes Beyond Sport,' Del Bosque Says: World Cup Final Voices
-- Alastair Reed
-- 2010-07-12T00:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/world-cup-win-goes-beyond-sport-del-bosque-says-world-cup-final-voices.html

          
          
             Spain’s soccer World Cup win “goes
beyond sport,” coach  Vicente Del Bosque  said after his team
beat the Netherlands 1-0 to take the title for the first time.  
 Andres Iniesta  scored with four minutes of extra time left
to seal the victory at Soccer City in Johannesburg last night
after the teams finished regulation tied 0-0. It was the latest
winning goal in a World Cup final.  
 The game featured 14 yellow cards, a record for the
championship match. Nine of them went to the Netherlands, who
played the last 11 minutes with 10 men after  John Heitinga  was
sent off for his second caution.  
 Spain, which became the first team to win the World Cup
after losing its opening game, added the global title to the
2008 European Championship. It was the third final the
Netherlands lost after twice finishing runner-up in the 1970s.  
 Following are post-match comments from players and coaches
from both teams:  
 Spain coach  Vicente Del Bosque :  
 “Spain, the country, deserves this triumph, this World
Cup. This goes beyond sport and we have to celebrate. All the
people have been behind us in Spain, and we’re delighted to
reward them with this victory.”  
 “We have hugely talented players on this team. This
success, being world champions, is a success for all of us, not
just Iniesta or Xavi, or any specific player. All these players
deserve the prize and the reward that we earned.  
 ‘‘I should congratulate our opponents. They made it very
difficult for us to play comfortably.  
 ‘‘If we didn’t play well, it’s because our rivals were
good. To try and keep up with them, with the pace they kept up
for 90 minutes, was difficult. But we still dominated the match.  
 ‘‘Holland played a good game. It was very intense, balanced
and even. It was rough at times, but that’s part of football.’’  
 ‘‘Football is moving forward and, in this World Cup in
South Africa -- which has been an extraordinary success for this
continent -- the reward today was for beautiful football.’’  
 Man of the match  Andres Iniesta :  
 ‘‘I’ve made a small contribution in a very tough game, a
very rough game -- there were all sorts of things happening on
the pitch -- but Spain deserved to win this World Cup.  
 On Paul, the octopus that correctly predicted all of
Germany’s matches at the World Cup, and forecast a Spanish
victory  
 ‘‘As for the octopus, what can I say? We won. The octopus
will be very popular in Spain.’’  
 Spain midfielder Sergio Busquets:  
 ‘‘We’ve been waiting a whole life for this.  
 ‘‘We’ve got better as the tournament has gone on and though
the first game didn’t go our way we managed to turn it around
after that. There were times today when we weren’t ourselves but
we managed to get the win in the end. I still can’t believe
it.”  
 Netherlands coach  Bert van Marwijk :  
 “It’s just sad, really sad, to lose a final in this way.  
 ‘‘It’s not our style to commit horrible fouls, not our kind
of football. It was a World Cup final and people were tense.  
 ‘‘It was our intention to play beautiful football, but we
were facing a very good opponent. Spain are the best footballing
nation in the past few years, so we needed to have a top day to
beat them.  
 ‘‘I would have loved to have won that match, even with not
so beautiful football.’’  
 Spain midfielder Cesc Fabregas:  
 ‘‘It’s a great moment for me, for every Spanish player, for
the Spanish people.  
 ‘‘We’re very proud, we never thought we could do it. It’s
something special and we’re very, very happy about it.  
 ‘‘It’s been hard, but believe me now, it’s one of the best
moments of my life. Today we are living the dream.’’  
 Netherlands midfielder  Nigel de Jong :  
 ‘‘It was a close game. We both created really good chances.
Both teams knew that if they scored first they would win.  
 ‘‘For us, it’s 32 years since we were in the finals, so
this is a historic achievement, but if you are in the final you
want to win it.’’  
 Netherlands winger  Arjen Robben :  
 ‘‘It hurts and it’s very disappointing.  
 ‘‘There were two very aggressive teams out there trying to
win the World Cup.’’  
 Netherlands midfielder  Wesley Sneijder :  
 ‘‘We fought to the end. This is football, you can win and
you can lose. I won three titles this season and I lost tonight
the fourth title. It’s a pity, but I think we can be proud of it
for the whole country.’’  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Baynes  at Soccer City, Johannesburg, at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net 
 Alastair Reed  in Johannesburg at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        