-- Wuhan, Anshan Steel to Shut Plants for Maintenance on Prices, UC361 Says
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T07:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/wuhan-anshan-steel-to-shut-plants-for-maintenance-on-prices-uc361-says.html

          
          
             Wuhan Iron & Steel Group , China’s
third-biggest steelmaker, and Anshan Iron & Steel Group may
carry out plant maintenance this month after prices dropped,
researcher UC361.com said.  
 Wuhan Steel will shut a hot-rolling plant for 10 days and
Anshan Steel, part of the country’s fourth-largest producer,
will close a cold-rolling line for about half a month, Hu
Yanping, a Beijing-based analyst, said in a phone interview.  
 China’s larger steelmakers are joining smaller rivals in
reducing production after  prices  fell 17 percent from an 18
month-high on April 15 because of slowing demand. Baosteel Group
Corp., the nation’s second-biggest mill, said in May that
steelmakers may face a “difficult” second half as measures to
curb speculation in the property market trim demand.  
 “Falling steel production may help ease a domestic glut,”
Hu wrote today in a  report . “But the cuts are still too limited
to stall dropping prices.”  
 Steel production in China, the world’s biggest maker of the
metal, may drop 8 percent to 10 percent in the second half from
the first six months, UBS AG said this month.  
 “Maintenance is a usual practice for steelmakers,”  Fu Jihui , board secretary of  Angang Steel Co. , Anshan’s Hong Kong-
listed unit, said. “I am unaware of the details.”  
 Wan Yi, board secretary of Wuhan Iron & Steel Co., Wuhan
Steel Group’s listed unit, said he’s unaware of maintenance
plans.  
 Daily Output Drops  
 China’s daily steel production extended declines in the
June 21 to June 31 period, Hu said. Average daily output was
1.71 million metric tons, lower than the 1.77 million tons for
June 11 to June 20 and 1.78 million tons in the first ten days
of the month, she said, citing data from the China Iron and
Steel Association.  
 Hebei Iron & Steel Co. , a unit of Hebei Iron & Steel Group,
China’s largest steelmaker, will also shut a hot-rolling
production line for about two weeks for maintenance, Hu said.
Wang Weigang, a spokesman with Hebei Steel, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  
 Production cuts at steelmakers have led to lower iron ore
purchases. Iron ore imports by China, the world’s largest buyer,
fell in June for a third month, customs data showed. Imports
dropped 9 percent to 47.2 million tons in June from 51.9 million
tons in May. The shipments were 15 percent lower than the 55.3
million tons a year earlier.  
 Jiangsu Shagang Group Co., China’s fourth-biggest
steelmaker, and Nanjing Iron & Steel Co. have put off iron ore
purchases after prices dropped.  
 The  cost of 62 percent iron ore  delivered to Tianjin port
dropped for a 14th straight day on July 9 to $121.8 a ton,
according to the Steel Index.  
 -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Andrew Hobbs .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        