-- U.S. Stocks, Copper Drop; Euro Weakens, Treasuries Rise
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-12T20:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/yen-weakens-against-euro-on-japan-elections-asian-exporter-stocks-advance.html

          
          
             Stocks rose, with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbing for a fifth day, as analyst upgrades
of technology shares boosted optimism before the start of the
earnings season. The dollar strengthened and oil and copper
retreated.  
 The S&P 500 climbed 0.1 percent at 1,078.75 at 4 p.m. in
New York and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index increased 0.4 percent.
The Dollar Index, which gauges the currency against six major
trading partners, advanced 0.3 percent to 84.214, helping to
drag oil down for the first time in four days. Copper snapped a
five-session streak of gains in New York as a report showed
falling imports in China. Treasuries were little changed.  
 Technology shares led U.S. equities higher after analysts
advised buying stock in  SanDisk Corp.  and Qualcomm Inc. as the
S&P 500 added to its 5.4 percent advance last week, its biggest
in a year. Alcoa Inc. started the second-quarter reporting
season with better-than-estimated results after markets closed,
sending the largest U.S. aluminum company’s shares up 2.9
percent in extended trading.  
 “We don’t see the double dip in the economy,” said  Patrick Becker Jr ., chief investment officer of Becker Capital
Management Inc. in Portland, Oregon, which oversees $2.3
billion. “We see stock valuations being very attractive at these
levels, especially within technology.”  
 The S&P 500 last week rebounded from a 10-month low as the
International Monetary Fund raised its growth forecast and
investors speculated a 16 percent selloff since April was
overdone given the outlook for earnings.  
 Technology Valuations  
 Technology companies in the S&P 500 fell as much as 17
percent this year,  pushing prices  down to 15.6 times reported
annual income, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
biggest  industry  in the index hasn’t been this cheap since at
least 1992, excluding the six months between Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy and the start of the bull market in
March 2009.  
 Technology companies rose 0.7 percent as a group today for
the biggest advance among 10 industries in the S&P 500. SanDisk
Corp. surged 6.8 percent as UBS AG advised buying the shares,
while Qualcomm Inc. jumped 3.5 percent as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. added the stock to its “conviction buy” list.  
 Companies in the  S&P 500  are projected to post an average
profit gain of 34 percent in the second quarter, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Raw-materials
producers are forecast to lead the growth, with earnings
projected to increase by 92 percent, followed by an 81 percent
increase in financial earnings and 53 percent jump in technology
company earnings.  
 Alcoa Earnings  
 U.S. benchmark indexes fluctuated for much of the day as
declines in metal prices dragged down  commodity  producers before
Alcoa reported results. Alcoa’s earnings from continuing
operations were 13 cents a share in the second quarter,
exceeding the 11-cent average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  
 Hewitt Associates Inc. jumped 32 percent after Aon Corp.,
the world’s largest insurance broker, agreed to buy the company
for $4.9 billion in cash and stock.  
 BP Plc rallied 9.4 percent in London, the most since 2008,
to help lead Europe’s regional benchmark index higher after
saying it may be able to stop the flow of oil from its leaky
Gulf of Mexico well and as investors speculated the company may
be acquired.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 0.4 percent,
extending its advance to five days.  
 The Sunday Times said Exxon Mobil Corp. may bid for the
company. BP is working to install a new, tighter-fitting cap
over its leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico, Senior Vice
President  Kent Wells  said yesterday.  
 Crude Retreats  
 Crude oil for August delivery declined 1.5 percent to
$74.95 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Copper for
delivery in three months lost 1.9 percent to $6,630 a metric ton
on the London Metal Exchange and September futures decreased 1.5
percent to $3.0075 a pound in New York. Aluminum slid 1.7
percent to $1,971 a ton in London.  
 Gold futures for August delivery dropped 0.9 percent to
$1,198.80 an ounce on the Comex in New York as a stronger dollar
reduced demand for the precious metal as an alternative asset.  
 The dollar gained against 13 of 16 major counterparts, with
the euro weakening to $1.2599 as the shared currency fell
against 12 of its 16 most-traded peers. The yen strengthened
against 12 of 16 major counterparts.  
 The pound dipped against the dollar after S&P said there is
“still a material risk that the U.K.’s net general government-
debt burden may approach a level incompatible with the nation’s
AAA long-term credit rating.” The pound was down 0.2 percent to
$1.5029.  
 $35 Billion Auction  
 Treasuries were little changed, with the 10-year yield at
3.07 percent, after the U.S. sold $35 billion in three-year
securities at the lowest yield on record, the first of three
note and bond sales this week totaling $69 billion.  
 Yields on 10-year top-rated municipal bonds may decline
further after falling to the lowest level since 2001, according
to Matt Fabian, managing director of Municipal Market Advisors.  
 Tax-exempt general obligations remained at an average yield
of 2.94 percent for the second straight day on July 9, the
lowest in at least nine-and-a-half years, as investors boosted
their holdings with reinvested June and July coupon payments.
States and municipalities are scheduled to sell $6.3 billion in
debt this week, 17 percent below the weekly average this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped for the first time in
three days, losing 0.1 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc., Japan’s biggest bank by market value, dropped 2.1 percent
in Tokyo.  
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index  climbed less than 0.1
percent. Developers and banks led gains in China on speculation
the government will relax curbs on mortgage lending after
property-price gains slowed. The Shanghai Composite Index jumped
0.8 percent.  
 Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index fell for the first time in
four days, losing 0.8 percent, as declining commodities prices
dragged down producers.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael P. Regan  in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The yen weakened against all 16 of its most-active counterparts at 11:28 a.m. in Tokyo, sliding to 112.23 per euro from 112.01 in New York on July 9. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     Stocks rose, adding to gains from the biggest weekly rally in a year for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as analyst upgrades of technology companies boosted optimism before the start of the earnings season. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Barry Knapp, head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays Capital, discusses the outlook for second-quarter corporate earnings.
     Knapp speaks with Betty Liu, Sheila Dharmarajan and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 12 (Bloomberg) -- Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for the global economy and financial markets.
     Naeimi, speaking from Sydney, also discusses prospects for second-quarter corporate earnings in the U.S. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
