-- Yilmaz May Keep Turkey Interest Rates at Record Low as Economic Gains Slow
-- Steve Bryant
-- 2010-07-12T21:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/yilmaz-may-keep-turkey-interest-rates-at-record-low-as-economic-gains-slow.html

          
          
             When Turkish Central Bank Governor
 Durmus Yilmaz  drove interest rates to a historic low last
November, economists said he might keep them there for half a
year. Seven months later, there’s no sign he plans to budge from
the current 7 percent.  
 All 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect Yilmaz and
six other policy makers to leave the  one-week repo  lending rate
unchanged when they meet July 15 to set the benchmark. Turkey
needs to keep rates “at current levels a while longer” as the
global recovery wobbles, Yilmaz told a business audience in
Denizli on July 8.  
 The worsening economic outlook in Europe, Turkey’s main
export market, gives Yilmaz license to fuel demand in the 72-
million-person domestic market.  Mehmet Buyukeksi , head of the
Turkish Exporters’ Assembly, said June 23 that sales abroad may
fall significantly this month and the International Monetary
Fund on July 8 reduced its forecast for growth in the 16 euro-
area nations to 1.3 percent for 2011 from 1.5 percent.  
 “Inflation is now the least of the bank’s worries,”
according to  Turker Hamzaoglu , a London-based economist at Bank
of America Corp.-Merrill Lynch & Co. who said in January that
Yilmaz risked falling “behind the curve” by not raising rates.
“What we didn’t anticipate then was the slowdown in Europe and
the euro-zone crisis. They’ve shifted the picture upside down.”  
 Growth, Inflation  
 Economic  growth has slowed since Turkey emerged from
recession in the second quarter of last year. It was just 0.1
percent in the first quarter. Manufacturing  confidence  fell for
a second month in June, after rising for the previous five
months.  
 Inflation has also slowed, with the rate dropping nearly
two percentage points to 8.4 percent in the two months through
June. It may finish the year “above but close” to the bank’s
6.5 percent goal, Yilmaz said July 8.  
 European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
July 8 he expects “price developments to remain moderate” and
ECB policy makers left the  key interest rate  unchanged at 1
percent.  
 “There’s been very significant improvement in inflation,”
said  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Istanbul. Cebeci, who had predicted the bank would raise rates
in April, says he expects the central bank to wait until the
second half of next year.  
 The size of Turkey’s domestic market cushions it to some
extent from the effects of the European debt crisis, said  Neil Shearing  of Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “It’s not
absolutely critical for Turkey as it is for, say, the Czech
Republic and Hungary,” which have much smaller populations.  
 Never Cheaper  
 Credit has never been cheaper in Turkey after the central
bank lowered rates 13 times from a high of 16.75 percent in
October 2008, boosting borrowing by consumers. Real interest
rates are negative, with  inflation  at 8.4 percent in June.  
 Shares of  Arcelik AS,  the biggest maker of refrigerators
and washing machines in a country where 97,000 couples married
in the first quarter, have climbed almost 50 percent since the
last rate reduction on Nov. 20. First-quarter profit doubled to
110 million liras ($74 million) from a year earlier. The Turkish
market accounted for 48 percent of the Istanbul-based company’s
 revenue  in 2009 and Europe made up 40 percent.  
 The cost of five-year interest-rate swaps, contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs, fell to the
lowest in at least five years on July 8, suggesting Yilmaz may
keep rates flat into 2011, when Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  campaigns for re-election.  
 Political Agenda  
 “Next year’s political agenda, plus the appointment of a
new central bank governor, could make it difficult to raise
rates,” JPMorgan’s Cebeci said.  
 Yilmaz, 63, ends his five-year term in April. The
government hasn’t said whether it will award him a second
mandate.  
 Erdogan is under pressure to reduce the unemployment rate
before he attempts to win a third term in elections that must be
held before July 2011. The recession left an additional  1
million people  without work. Joblessness was 13.7 percent in
April, more than 3 percentage points above the level in 2007,
when the last election was held.  
 Achieving stable prices is the central bank’s job, Yilmaz
said in Denizli. “But it’s not an end in itself. Price
stability is a tool to achieve jobs for the jobless, food for
the hungry and opportunities for businessmen,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Durmus Yilmaz, governor of the Central Bank of Turkey, poses during the Central and Eastern European Forum (CEE) in Vienna, on Jan. 16, 2008.Photographer: Vladimir Weiss/Bloomberg News  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
