-- Your Party Gains in Japan Election, Making It `Kingmaker' For Legislation
-- Takashi Hirokawa
-- 2010-07-12T03:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/your-party-gains-in-japan-election-making-it-kingmaker-for-legislation.html

          
          
             Japan’s opposition Your Party won 10
seats in upper house elections yesterday, vaulting the group
formed 11 months ago into a position to make or break
legislation proposed by a weakened ruling bloc.  
 Your Party leader  Yoshimi Watanabe  vowed not to join Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan ’s  Democratic Party of Japan -led coalition and
to pursue a separate legislative agenda. Kan will have to
negotiate with the new group as well as the main opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party  on legislation, potentially signaling
renewed political gridlock. Watanabe is a former LDP cabinet
minister.  
 “We’ll see political power games and Kan won’t be able to
deliver policies easily,” said  Jiro Yamaguchi , political
science professor at Hokkaido University in northern Japan. Your
Party “will try to play a kingmaker role.”  
 Watanabe’s group campaigned on a promise to slash the ranks
of civil servants by one third and to cut corporate taxes. Its
members also opposed raising the sales tax to curb the nation’s
debt, an approach favored by both the LDP and DPJ.  
 Raising the consumption tax would drag on the economy at a
time when it is struggling to overcome two decades of stagnant
growth,  Kenji Nakanishi , a former JPMorgan Chase & Co. executive
and Your Party candidate, said earlier this month. Nakanishi
defeated Justice Minister  Keiko Chiba  in Yokohama to win
yesterday. Former Tully’s Coffee Japan Co. President  Kota Matsuda  was another of Watanabe’s candidates who won.  
 Coalition Strength  
 Kan’s coalition now has 110 lawmakers in the 242-seat upper
house after yesterday’s vote, compared with Your Party’s 11.
Kan’s block has 311 seats in the lower house, short of the two-
thirds majority necessary to overrule upper house decisions.  
 “It’s inevitable that the influence of the policy agendas
of the LDP and Your Party will increase,”  Hiromichi Shirakawa ,
chief Japan economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo, wrote
today in a report.  
 Watanabe, a financial services minister in the LDP, formed
Your Party ahead of last year’s lower house contest. Support for
the group gained as Kan’s predecessor  Yukio Hatoyama  failed to
make good on campaign promises such as relocating a U.S.
military base off the island of Okinawa.  
 “Your Party will become a key player in the divided
parliament,”  Hiroyuki Kishi , professor of economic policies at
Tokyo-based Keio University, said in an interview. “The party
presents an alternative.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sachiko Sakamaki  in Tokyo at 
 Ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
 Takashi Hirokawa  in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        