-- Yuan's Gradual Advance Allows China to Adjust, Feldstein Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-12T17:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/yuan-s-gradual-advance-allows-china-to-adjust-feldstein-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             The yuan’s slow advance against the
dollar following its re-evaluation is meant to give China’s
businesses time to adjust to the new monetary policy, according
to  Martin Feldstein , a Harvard University economics professor.  
 China’s currency, also known as the renminbi, has
appreciated 0.81 percent against the dollar since June 19, when
the People’s Bank of China said it would allow more flexibility
in the yuan’s exchange rate. The yuan was little changed today
at 6.7711.   
 “The government there is essentially putting the
businesses there on notice that renminbi is going to strengthen
and that they’ve got to be prepared for it,” Feldstein said
today in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Surveillance.  
 After scrapping a peg to the dollar in July 2005, the
government allowed the yuan to gain 21 percent before holding it
at about 6.83 to the dollar from July 2008 to last month.  
 Feldstein, 70, is former head of the National Bureau of
Economic Research, which determines the beginning and end of
U.S. recessions. In a 2009 Financial Times article, he wrote
that China’s policy of expanding domestic spending while
depressing the renminbi will lead to its economy overheating.  
 The government in Beijing will begin to allow the currency
to strengthen more rapidly to contain inflation, said Feldstein,
who returned from a visit to China two days ago. He projects the
yuan will gain 5 percent yearly for the next several years.  
 Capital Mobility  
 China will be slower in removing restrictions to capital
mobility, according to Feldstein, referring to an article
published this week in The New York Times by a fellow Harvard
economics professor,  N. Gregory Mankiw .  
 “They’re moving in that direction in small steps,”
Feldstein said. “They’re opening up new markets. They’re going
to let American firms list on the Chinese stock exchange, but
it’s not going to happen overnight.”  
 China’s central bank has focused on monetary policy and
control of its exchange rate, which restricts international flow
of capital, according to Mankiw.  
 “Without such restrictions, money would flow into and out
of the country, forcing the domestic interest rate to match
those set by foreign central banks,” Mankiw wrote.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        