-- Yuan Forwards Advance for Third Day as Record June Exports Signal Recovery
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-12T09:59:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/yuan-forwards-strengthen-after-china-s-record-june-exports-signal-recovery.html

          
          
             Yuan forwards climbed for a third
day after the government reported record exports for June and
the largest trade surplus in eight months.  
 Overseas sales jumped 43.9 percent from a year earlier to
$137.4 billion and the surplus more than doubled to an eight-
month high of $20 billion, the customs bureau said July 10. The
U.S. government stopped short of branding China a currency
manipulator on July 8 and said the yuan “remains undervalued”
after the nation ended a two-year peg to the dollar on June 19.  
 “China’s trade number was pretty positive and there might
be a bit of pressure from Washington for the yuan to appreciate
at a faster pace,” said Brian  Jackson , a strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada in Hong Kong. Yuan forwards “should see a bit of
that” appreciation pressure this week, he added.  
 The 12-month non-deliverable forward climbed 0.05 percent
to 6.6590 per dollar as of 5:30 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, signaling an appreciation of 1.7
percent from the yuan’s spot rate of 6.7711. The currency has
strengthened 0.8 percent since the peg ended.  
 China should expand the yuan’s trading band and allow more
exchange-rate flexibility, Sheng Zhaohui, a research official at
the  People’s Bank of China  wrote in the Financial News today.  
 U.S. Deficit  
 The U.S. will tomorrow release its May trade balance, which
may show a deficit of $39 billion compared with a shortfall of
$40.3 billion in April, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The gap with China grew to $19.3 billion in April
from $16.9 billion the previous month, data on June 10 showed.  
 “The focus this week will be on China’s large trade
surplus and the large U.S. deficit with China, which may add to
pressure for yuan appreciation,” Jackson said.  
 China’s benchmark money-market rate dropped by the most
this month on speculation the central bank won’t rein in supply
of capital after banks extended fewer loans in June.  
 New yuan-denominated loans fell to 603.4 billion yuan ($89
billion), from 639.4 billion in May and 1.53 trillion in the
same month last year, the central bank said yesterday. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for 600 billion yuan.  
 “The loan number shows the PBOC may not seek any more
tightening measures,” said  Liu Junyu , a Shenzhen-based bond
analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the country’s fifth-largest
lender by market value. “The PBOC’s capital injections also
help increase capital supply.”  
 Money Markets  
 The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, declined 25 basis points to 2.07 percent,
according to a daily fixing rate by the National Interbank
Funding Center. That was the biggest drop since June 30.  
 The central bank pumped 105 billion yuan ($15.5 billion)
into the financial system last week, a seventh weekly net
injection, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Government bonds were little changed as the market is
waiting for inflation data to be announced on July 15, according
to  Huang Yanhong , a fixed-income analyst at Bank of Nanjing Co.,
a Chinese lender partly owned by BNP Paribas SA.  
 The yield on the 1.77 percent treasury note due December
2013 was unchanged at 2.55 percent, according to the National
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 For Related News and Information:
For stories on derivatives: NI DRV BN <GO>
For stories on China’s bonds: TNI CHINA BON BN <GO>
For Stories on China’s economy: TNI CHINA ECO BN <GO>  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about China's currency policy.
     The U.S., stopping short of branding China a currency manipulator, said the yuan "remains undervalued" after the nation ended its peg to the dollar. China took a "significant step" last month when it began to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury Department said in a report to Congress released yesterday. Kowalczyk, speaking from Hong Kong, also discusses China's economy and central bank monetary policy. (Excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 9 (Bloomberg) -- Donald Straszheim, senior managing director of China research at International Strategy & Investment Group, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about China's currency policy.
     The U.S., stopping short of branding China a currency manipulator, said the yuan "remains undervalued" after the nation ended its peg to the dollar. China took a "significant step" last month when it began to allow markets to drive the currency higher, the Treasury Department said in a report to Congress released yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
