-- KFC Fails to End Suit Over Chicken-and-Sides Coupons Pitched on Oprah Show
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-12T23:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/yum-brands-must-face-kfc-consumers-coupon-fraud-claims-u-s-judge-says.html

          
          
             Yum! Brands Inc.  and its KFC unit
must face claims by consumers that the company failed to honor
coupons for free grilled chicken meals after a promotion was
announced by television talk show host  Oprah Winfrey .  
 U.S. District Judge  James F. Holderman  in Chicago rejected
a request by the company for dismissal of the four lawsuits
filed last year and consolidated before him, ruling that the
consumers had set forth a “plausible claim for common law
fraud.”  
 Louisville, Kentucky-based Yum and KFC launched the offer
for their new grilled chicken product in May 2009. Winfrey
announced the give-away on her show. She and KFC made coupons
redeemable for two pieces of chicken, two sides and a biscuit
available on their websites, according to the court.  
 While more than 10 million coupons were printed, according
to Holderman’s ruling, the KFC outlets stopped redeeming them
only two days into a scheduled two-week promotion, telling
customers they could apply for a “rain check” through the
internet.  
 About 5.7 million people were allegedly denied free meals
otherwise retailing for $3.99, making the suit worth more than
$22 million.  
 “The promotion proved to be too much of a good thing,”
according to a consolidated complaint filed with the court in
February. “Faced with high demand for the free meals, KFC
stopped honoring the coupons almost immediately.”  
 “We provided millions of free Kentucky Grilled Chicken
meals around the country when the offer was announced in 2009,”
KFC spokeswoman  Laurie Schalow  said in an e-mailed statement.
“Due to the overwhelming response, we distributed millions of
rain check coupons for the holders of valid coupons who we were
unable to serve during the offer period.”  
 Seeking dismissal, KFC and Yum! told Holderman of the rain
check offer, asserting that it cured any alleged breach.  
 “Plaintiffs’ allegations, taken as true, plausibly suggest
that Defendants’ ‘raincheck program’ was not a cure, but a
requirement for additional performance,” Holderman wrote.  
 The judge’s decision was posted to the court’s website on
July 9.  
 The plaintiffs allege violations of consumer protection
laws in Illinois, Michigan and California. They’re seeking class
action -- or group -- certification together with compensatory
and punitive damages of at least $25 million.  
 The case is In Re Kentucky Grilled Chicken Coupon Marketing
and Sales Practices Litigation, 09cv7670, in the Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        