-- Zapatero Faces Budget Debate Rehearsal as Spain Government's Allies Mutiny
-- Emma Ross-Thomas
-- 2010-07-13T09:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/zapatero-faces-budget-debate-rehearsal-as-spain-government-s-allies-mutiny.html

          
          
             Spanish Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  is headed for a showdown with lawmakers that
may determine how much longer his six-year-old Socialist Cabinet
can hang on.  
 Tomorrow’s annual state of the nation debate will generate
proposals for parliament to vote on next week, as Zapatero seeks
to tame the euro area’s third-biggest budget gap amid defections
by former allies after two years of economic contraction.  
 Zapatero pushed through emergency austerity measures with a
margin of one vote on May 27, and failure on the 2011 budget in
votes set for September would bring his government down. The
regional Catalan party, CiU, put Zapatero on notice that day
that its 10 members wouldn’t support the budget.  
 “The debate is important for us to see if the government
has any chance of finishing the legislature in a way that’s in
the least bit useful for the country, if they have the support
and policies,”  Pere Macias , a CiU lawmaker responsible for
budget issues, said in a telephone interview.  
 The premier goes into the debate without backing from the
smaller parties that had helped pass his minority government’s
program and with the deepest budget cuts in three decades
eroding his popularity. The  budget shortfall  was 11.2 percent of
gross domestic product last year and the government aims to cut
it to 6 percent in 2011.  
 Policy U-turn  
 Zapatero has riled unions and members of his Socialist
party with a policy U-turn aimed at cutting the shortfall and
stemming a surge in borrowing costs.  
 “There’s a chance that they fall, which is precisely not
getting the budget through,” said  Ken Dubin , a political
science professor at Carlos III university in Madrid. “We’re
going to have a really nasty debate,” he said, in what could be
a kind of “rehearsal” for the budget discussions.  
 The annual debate often generates key proposals. Zapatero
used last year’s event to announce that a tax rebate on mortgage
payments would be scrapped in 2011, in a bid to encourage buyers
to mop up excess housing. He also offered incentives to buy cars
and announced 1 billion euros ($1.25 billion) in  spending  cuts.  
 Borrowing Costs  
 Those budget reductions have been extended since a surge in
borrowing costs for southern euro-region countries prompted the
creation of a 750 billion-euro financial backstop for struggling
members and a call for austerity measures in return. The extra
yield investors demand to hold Spanish debt rather than German
equivalents reached a euro-era high of 233 basis points on June
17. The spread narrowed to 203 basis points today from 207 basis
points yesterday.  
 Zapatero responded by cutting civil servants’ wages 5
percent, freezing pensions and scrapping a subsidy for new
mothers. He then overhauled labor legislation to make it easier
for companies to opt out of wage deals. He’s also aiming to
raise the retirement age to shore up the pension system.  
 Those plans have prompted Spain’s two biggest unions to
call a general strike for Sept. 29, and stirred discontent in
his party.  
 Antonio Gutierrez , a Socialist lawmaker, refused to vote
with the party to ratify the labor overhaul on June 22 and
attacked the pension-system changes in a March opinion piece in
El Pais newspaper. At least three Socialist legislators refused
to join in a standing ovation when Zapatero announced the
austerity measures on May 12.  
 “The legitimacy of the Zapatero government has been deeply
eroded,”  Sebastian Balfour , a political science professor at
the London School of Economics.  
 ‘Inevitable Consensus’  
 Deputy Prime Minister  Maria Teresa Fernandez de la Vega 
said the debate will be an “opportunity to forge the necessary
and inevitable consensus” to push the economy back to growth.
The budget will be approved “of course,” and the government
has no plans for early elections, she said in an interview with
 Cadena Ser  radio today.  
 The policies have alienated small parties that define
themselves as leftist and used to provide votes to Zapatero, who
is seven seats shy of a majority. The Basque Nationalist Party,
a former ally, suggested it may not support the budget as that
would mean “giving Zapatero political life or not,” Pedro
Aspiazu, the party’s economic spokesman, said in an interview
last month.  
 Support for Zapatero is also waning among voters. A poll by
ABC newspaper published on June 14 showed the opposition
People’s Party, which has started billing itself as the party of
“workers,” opened up an 11.8 percentage point lead over the
Socialists.  
 “The debate is a test,” said  Alfredo Pastor , a former
deputy finance minister and professor at  IESE  business school.
“If the debate of the nation goes well, there will be support
for the budget; if not, then we’ll just have to see.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Zapatero. Photographer: Georges Gobet/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
