-- Zodiac Aerospace Rejects Takeover Approach From Safran, Sees Few Savings
-- Andrea Rothman
-- 2010-07-12T12:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-12/zodiac-aerospace-says-it-rejected-all-share-takeover-approach-from-safran.html

          
          
             (Corrects spelling of CEO’s first name in third paragraph.)  
 Zodiac Aerospace SA , Europe’s
biggest maker of airplane seats, rejected a takeover approach
from jet-engine-maker  Safran SA , saying the companies have
little overlap or potential cost savings.  
 Zodiac, which has a market value of 2.2 billion euros
($2.8 billion), supplies both Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co . with
products including escape chutes, seats and oxygen systems. Its
stock has gained 67 percent in the past 12 months.  
 “Zodiac isn’t looking for a partner and has a good outlook
as a stand-alone company,” Zodiac Chief Executive Officer
 Olivier Zarrouati  told journalists on a conference call. “The
outlook for Safran is modest, and the industrial synergies are
weak.”  
 The Paris-based company received a letter from Safran
proposing a share offer without a specific price, and its board
members considered the merits of a combination at a meeting on
June 9, Zarrouati said. The board unanimously rejected the idea,
and the families with the biggest stakes in Zodiac are backing
management’s plans to keep the company independent, he added.  
 Safran, Europe’s second-biggest maker of aircraft engines,
was formed in 2005 when state-owned aircraft-engine-maker Snecma
was purchased by electronics maker Sagem SA in a deal engineered
by French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  during his tenure as finance
minister. The company is 30.2 percent owned by the French state.  
 Safran said in an e-mailed statement that it acknowledged
Zodiac’s reaction to its proposal and remained “convinced of
the obvious logic” of “bringing the businesses together.”  
 GE Venture  
 In the last two years, Safran has shed assets such as
mobile telephones and broadband equipment inherited in the Sagem
deal that were unrelated to its core business, which is building
commercial aircraft engines. Its joint venture with General
Electric Co. supplies the only engine that powers Boeing Co.’s
single-aisle 737 plane, and is one of two engines available for
Airbus SAS’s A320 series.  
 The CFM International venture’s CFM56 engine has a market
share of about 75 percent for single-aisle planes, the aircraft
most favored by the growing low-cost aviation industry. Safran
also builds engines for military planes including Dassault
Aviation SA’s Rafale and sells security equipment for airports
and other businesses.  
 Zodiac’s business has only a 4 percent overlap with
Safran’s, Zodiac said.  
 ‘Very Different’  
 “Safran shares seem very different from Zodiac ones in
terms of risk profile,” Zarrouati said. “We don’t see the
utility of being bought. We have before us sufficient growth
perspectives, internal and external, to satisfy our
shareholders.”  
 Zodiac Aerospace, formerly known as Zodiac SA, changed its
name last year to reflect a shift to the aviation industry after
it sold 80 percent of a business that makes pool equipment and
inflatable rafts in September 2007 to the Jandy Pool Products
unit of Carlyle Group, a Washington-based private-equity firm.  
 The Domange and Marechal families together own one quarter
of Zodiac stock and hold more than 40 percent of its voting
rights, according to  Hoover’s Handbook .  
 Zodiac itself has been making acquisitions over the last
year. Its most recent takeover was announced July 5, when it
said it would acquire Sell GmbH, a German maker of aircraft
galleys, from Premium Aerotech. Zarrouati said yesterday that
the company has further targets in view.  
 Zarrouati, who was quoted by La Tribune newspaper on June
16 as saying a merger with another French company was unlikely,
said yesterday that accepting Safran’s offer would have opened a
“Pandora’s box,” with companies outside France submitting
rival bids.  
 Zarrouati said he doesn’t expect Zodiac to be pursued by
other companies given Zodiac has rejected the friendly approach
from Safran.  
 -- With assistance from  Ben Martin  in London. Editors:  Ben Livesey ,  John Simpson   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Deen  in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        