-- Retail in a state of "anarchy" as consumers retreat
-- By  Martinne Geller
-- Sun Jan 13, 2008 4:29pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/01/13/businesspro-usa-retail-outlook-dc-idUSN1336265420080113

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - U.S. chain stores, reeling from the 
slowest holiday shopping season in five years, got some more 
bad news on Sunday: 2008 will not be any better and could see 
changes that may shift the retail playing field forever. 

  As the National Retail Federation kicked off its annual 
convention in New York, two retail consultants offered negative 
outlooks for the U.S. retail industry, which has seen consumers 
pull back amid higher gasoline and food prices, a credit crunch 
and a prolonged housing market decline.  "It's anarchy," said Wendy Liebmann, chief executive of WSL 
Strategic Retail, frequently repeating the word she used to sum 
up the latest results of her company's bi-annual shopper study.  "Americans cannot control the big things such as oil 
prices, falling home values, mortgage costs and rising property 
taxes, so they want to control the small things," Liebmann 
said. "They are watching what they spend on everything."  Liebmann said most shoppers were making fewer weekly 
shopping trips and spending significantly less on discretionary 
items such as home appliances and decor, fashion accessories, 
electronics, perfume, computers and software.  The only two categories getting a larger share of 
consumers' wallets are food and pet supplies, Liebmann said, 
noting however, that food prices have increased.  But with shoppers changing their habits, opportunities also 
emerge, she noted.  Liebmann projected this year's winning retail sectors will 
be department stores such as Saks Inc SKS.N and J.C. Penney 
Co Inc ( JCP.N ), in part because they have improved their 
offerings, and drug stores such as CVS Caremark Corp ( CVS.N ), 
that have added things such as better brands of beauty products 
and in-store health clinics.  Losers are likely to be mass merchants like Wal-Mart Stores 
Inc ( WMT.N ) and Target Corp ( TGT.N ), and specialty stores such 
as Barnes & Noble ( BKS.N ), Liebmann said, citing the impact of 
shoppers making fewer trips and spending more prudently.  Yet retailers with exposure to emerging markets such as 
China and India may be able to offset the weakness in the 
United States, according to a report by Deloitte Research.
  REBALANCE OF POWER  As consumer spending slows in the United States, it is 
speeding up in Asia, said Ira Kalish, global director of 
Deloitte Research. He said the global economy is transforming 
from how it was over the last decade.  "U.S. consumes, China produces and everyone's happy -- that 
... can't last forever," Kalish said, adding that the imbalance 
is "starting to unwind and will impact where spending growth 
takes place.  "Global economic growth in 2008 is likely to be slow," 
Kalish said, citing a slowdown in U.S. consumer spending and 
modest decelerations in Europe and Japan as well.  "The main engine of global growth will continue to be China 
and, to a lesser extent, India and the major oil producing 
countries," in the Persian Gulf and Russia, Kalish said.  Aside from that geographic shift, other trends in global 
retailing include increased focus on added services, such as 
Best Buy Co Inc's ( BBY.N ) Geek Squad, social responsibility, 
improving customers' shopping experiences and retailers 
aggressively improving their marketing messages, Kalish said.  (Editing by Maureen Bavdek)