-- Konica and GE to jointly develop OLED lights
-- 
-- Mon Mar 26, 2007 9:55pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/27/businesspro-konica-ge-dc-idUST14215420070327

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Japan's Konica Minolta Holdings said on 
Tuesday it has tied up with General Electric Co. to jointly 
develop flexible and thin lighting products using organic 
light-emitting diode (OLED) technology. 

  Shares of Konica Minolta were up 1.6 percent at 1,565 yen 
as of 0053 GMT, the biggest positive contributor to the 
benchmark Nikkei average, which was down 0.6 percent.  OLED has primarily been seen as a promising technology for 
next-generation flat panel displays because OLED screens can 
produce bright, colourful images visible from a wide viewing 
angle without consuming a lot of power.  But Konica Minolta has been striving to develop an OLED 
device to tap the lighting equipment market, which is expected 
to continue growing steadily and reach $92 billion in 2010, 
according to research firm the Freedonia Group.  Konica Minolta said it would aim to release a product 
within three years, most likely using the GE brand, a global 
leader along with European lighting makers Philips Electronics 
and Siemens-owned Osram  Last year Konica Minolta made headlines by announcing it 
had developed an OLED device that could emit white light at 64 
lumens per watt and last 10,000 hours before the brightness 
level was down by half, roughly on a par with conventional 
fluorescent lights.  Tokyo-based Konica Minotla has annual sales of about 1 
trillion yen ($8.47 billion), most of which come from copiers, 
printers, medical equipment, optical devices and a film used to 
enhance picture quality in liquid crystal displays.  OLEDs are typically built on glass but can also be made on 
flexible substrates to allow for bendable lighting.  Company spokeswoman Yuko Ogiso said Konica and GE would 
develop devices that are thin and can be bent to fit curved 
surfaces, aiming to offer a new category of lighting while 
cultivating the business into a new driver of earnings growth.  Ogiso said the company did not have any concrete profit or 
sales forecasts for the OLED business.