-- Africa to Push G-20 for Open Trade, More Seats at IMF, South Africa Says
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-06-26T14:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/africa-to-push-g-20-for-open-trade-more-seats-at-imf-south-africa-says.html

          
          
             Africa will push the Group of 20
nations to liberalize trade and give the poorest continent a
greater say in institutions such as the International Monetary
Fund, South African President  Jacob Zuma  said.  
 “We are not here in Canada with cap in hand to ask for
some of these things,” Zuma told delegates at the  Fortune
Global Forum  in Cape Town today via videoconference from
Toronto, where leaders of the G-20 meet tomorrow.  
 South Africa, the continent’s biggest economy, is the only
African nation represented in the G-20, which is considering
policies to sustain the global recovery and reform financial
systems. Zuma is pushing for more political clout for Africa in
international forums as China’s drive for commodities boosts
investment on the continent and political stability improves  
 “Africa offers a market of close to a billion people” and
has seen “significant sustained growth,” Zuma said, noting
that sub-Saharan Africa is the third-fastest growing region in
the world after China and India. He added that the continet
wants “equal partnerships” at the G-20 and G-8 and other
international forums and a third representative seat on the IMF.  
 Political leaders including former U.S. President  Bill Clinton  as well as chief executive officers such as Royal Dutch
Shell Plc’s  Peter Voser  are due to speak at the three-day
conference in Cape Town. The event aims to showcase Africa
during the soccer World Cup, which began in South Africa on June
11.  
 “The World Cup proves that the faith in Africa wasn’t
misplaced,” Zuma said. “It’s challenging misconceptions about
Africa.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        