-- Bank of Canada's Carney Says G-20 Makes `Serious Progress' on Bank Capital
-- Paul Badertscher
-- 2010-06-26T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/bank-of-canada-s-carney-says-g-20-makes-serious-progress-on-bank-capital.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said Group of 20 nations are making “serious progress” toward
establishing capital guidelines for  financial institutions  to
guard against future financial crises.  
 “There’s much more consensus the global system is under-
capitalized,” Carney said in an interview to be broadcast today
on the CBC Radio One program The House. “I think we are going
to move to a common agreement on what that capital is and what
the level needs to be by the Seoul summit in November. We’re
making serious progress on capital.”  
 UBS AG  has estimated that under some proposals, banks would
need to raise as much as $375 billion in fresh capital. Canadian
Bankers Association Chief Executive Officer  Nancy Hughes Anthony 
said June 8 that proposals from the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision “could potentially choke the banking industry.”  
 Carney said one objective for Group of 20 leaders at this
weekend’s talks in Toronto should be to establish guidelines for
“advanced” countries to restore fiscal balance after running
up deficits to fight the global recession. The cuts should be
“not too fast, because we still need the stimulus in many of
the weaker major economies, but not too slow either because
ultimately we’d all pay the price for that,” he said.  
 The global recovery “is going to be uneven and
increasingly uneven over time,” Carney said. “What’s required
of countries is going to be different, the timing is going to be
different, the order of magnitude is going to be different.”  
 ‘Lot of Uncertainties’  
 “We acknowledge that the global economy, the outlook is
uncertain,” Carney said, citing the impact of fiscal
consolidation and changes in financial regulations and the speed
of the economic recovery in the U.S. There are “a lot of
uncertainties out there,” he said.  
 Asked about a global levy on banks, Carney said it would be
“OK” if not all countries act in the same manner. He
reiterated that Canada is concerned that if the proceeds of a
bank tax are used as insurance against a future crisis, it could
cause institutions to take on more risks on the expectation they
would be bailed out.  
 Speaking about the Canadian economy, Carney said that its
future growth rate would be limited by the expansion in its
productivity and labor force. “Productivity growth has been
very weak in this economy for the last decade,” he said, and
added that the country faces a challenge from an aging
workforce.  
 Carney also said Canadians should “celebrate” the
contribution that commodities make to the economy. “You can see
some longer-term trends in the global economy, which suggest
that prices are going to be higher rather than lower for
commodities, that demand is going to increase,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Badertscher  in Toronto, at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        