-- Boehringer's First Diabetes Pill May Be Challenge to Merck, AstraZeneca
-- Naomi Kresge
-- 2010-06-26T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/boehringer-s-first-diabetes-pill-may-be-challenge-to-merck-astrazeneca.html

          
          
             Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH ’s first
diabetes pill lowered patients’ blood glucose levels in study
results that could position the drug to compete with  Merck &
Co. ’s Januvia and  AstraZeneca Plc ’s Onglyza.  
 The Boehringer drug linagliptin cut glucose levels more
than a placebo both on its own and in combination with standard
treatment in five trials presented at the American Diabetes
Association’s  annual meeting  beginning today in Orlando,
Florida. Like Januvia and Onglyza, the Boehringer pill is in a
class of treatments known as DPP-4 inhibitors that spur the body
to produce more insulin and less glucose, or blood sugar.  
 Boehringer plans to ask U.S. and European regulators this
year for approval to sell the once-daily pill, said Maximilian
von Eynatten, medical affairs adviser to the Ingelheim, Germany-
based drugmaker, in a telephone interview. Linagliptin may be
able to set itself apart from competitors because, unlike with
Januvia and Onglyza, doctors won’t have to adjust the dose for
patients with kidney problems, Von Eynatten said.  
 “Linagliptin has one dose that will fit all patients,” he
said. “That is something none of the currently marketed DPP-4
inhibitors can provide.”  
 Linagliptin didn’t cause more weight gain, risk of
interactions with other drugs or an increased risk of blood
sugar dropping too low compared withplacebo, Boehringer said.  
 Approved in the U.S. in 2006, Merck’s Januvia had $1.9
billion in sales last year. The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration cleared Onglyza in July, and the medicine had $4
million in sales in the first quarter.  
 Boehringer this year said linagliptin is among a handful of
new drugs that will drive growth as prostate drug Flomax and
Parkinson’s therapy Mirapex lose patent protection.  
 Boehringer is about to begin the final stage of clinical
testing on its second experimental diabetes medicine, BI 10773,
Von Eynatten said. Part of a class of drugs known as SGLT-2
inhibitors, the treatment spurs the kidneys to flush excess
blood sugar out through the urine.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naomi Kresge  in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        