-- Brazil Calls `Draconian' Harper Proposal to Halve G-20 Nations' Deficits
-- Fabiola Moura
-- 2010-06-26T23:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/brazil-calls-draconian-harper-proposal-to-halve-g-20-nations-deficits.html

          
          
             A proposal to cut by half the budget
deficits of the Group of 20 nations by 2013 and to reduce debt
by 2016 would be “draconian” for some countries, said
Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega .  
 “Brazil can easily meet these goals,” Mantega, who is
heading the Brazilian delegation at the G-20 summit in Toronto,
told reporters today. “My concern is with countries with
deficits above 10 percent and colossal debts.”  
 Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  was expected to urge
G-20 countries to halve their fiscal deficits by 2013 and put
their debt-to-gross domestic product ratios in a downward
projectory by 2016, Harper spokesman  Dimitri Soudas  told
reporters today after the Group of 8 meetings.  
 The proposal to halve fiscal deficits “is too draconian, a
little difficult, a little exaggerated. Some countries would not
meet it,” Mantega said, citing Japan and Italy. “It is clear
that we need to cut, but at what speed?”  
 Brazil backs targets to reduce deficits as long as the cuts
don’t harm growth, Mantega said. Exporting countries such as
Japan and Germany should prioritize growth of their domestic
markets over cuts in deficits and debt, Mantega said.  
 “We know the problem and we know the remedy, the question
is what is the adequate dose of this remedy?” Mantega said.
“If you give the right dose, you cure the patient. If you
exaggerate, you kill him.”  
 G-20 leaders have been split over how best to implement new
financial standards, while agreeing on the general need for
changes to avoid a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  
 Lower Deficit  
 “Japan’s debt is almost three times the GDP, but it is not
a threat to the world economy,” he said. “It is important that
Japan works to cut its debt, but more important for it to
grow.”  
 Brazil will cut its fiscal deficit to 1.5 percent of GDP
this year, from 3 percent. The country will gradually reduce its
debt to 30 percent of the economy, Mantega said.  
 Mantega is heading the Brazilian delegation to the meeting
of leaders from the G-20 group of nations in Toronto after
president  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  decided yesterday to cancel
his trip to focus on recovery efforts after floods ravaged the
northeastern part of the country.  
 Heavy rains in the states of Alagoas and Pernambuco have
left at least 51 dead and thousands homeless, Folha de S.Paulo
newspaper  reported  yesterday. Brazil’s federal government will
release 500 million reais ($281 million) for relief and
rebuilding, Lula said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        