-- Breakaway Somalia Region Somaliland Holds Peaceful Presidential Election
-- William Davison
-- 2010-06-26T16:27:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/breakaway-somalia-region-somaliland-holds-peaceful-presidential-election.html

          
          
             Somaliland , a breakaway region of
northwestern Somalia, held a presidential election that was
mostly peaceful today, with fighting limited to a disputed
eastern region, international election observers said.  
 Most of the polling stations were orderly and organized,
said Richard Williamson, a former U.S. ambassador to the United
Nations and presidential envoy to Sudan, who along with
 International Republican Institute  President  Lorne Craner  is
leading the Washington-based group’s team of election observers.
Military vehicles are patrolling the capital city of Hargeisa
and all private vehicles and public transport have been ordered
off the roads.  
 The election in one of the few peaceful and democratic
territories in the Horn of Africa has been delayed for two years
because of wrangling over voter registration. President Dahir
Riyale Kahin of the United Peoples’ Democratic Party is facing
challenges from Ahmed Mahmoud Silanyo of the Kulmiye party and
Faisal Ali Warabe from the Justice and Welfare Party. About 1
million people are registered to vote.  
 “It’s good for stability, their future and can do nothing
but help them to get international recognition and investment,”
Williamson said in an interview.  
 A female electoral commission officer was shot dead in
fighting between Somaliland forces and rebel group Sool Sanaag
Cayn in the troubled eastern region of Sool, according to an
international election coordination mission led by London-based
development charity  Progessio . Voting hasn’t taken place in the
area, said Michael Walls, joint coordinator of the mission.  
 Riyale became president of the former British colony in
1992 and won election to the post in 2003, after his party
defeated the opposition Kulmiye party by 80 votes. Somaliland
declared independence from Somalia in 1991 and largely escaped
the violence in the remainder of Somalia. No country has
recognized Somaliland as an independent state.  
 The polls closed at 6 p.m. local time.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Hargeisa via London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        