-- Cameron, Obama Say Sustained Growth Common Goal Amid Deficit Disagreement
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-06-26T21:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/cameron-obama-say-sustained-growth-common-goal-amid-deficit-disagreement.html

          
          
             U.S. President  Barack Obama  and U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said they share the goal of
sustaining economic growth even as they differ on how quickly to
address deficits.  
 Obama, holding his first one-on-one meeting with Cameron
since the U.K. leader took office last month, said the two
countries may take “differentiated responses” to reducing
fiscal stimulus to keep the recovery going.  
 “But we are aiming at the same direction, which is long-
term, sustainable growth that puts people to work,” Obama said
in Toronto where he and Cameron are attending the Group of 20
summit meeting.  
 Both leaders also said the war in Afghanistan is at a
critical stage and reaffirmed their commitment to the strategy
Obama has in place.  
 Leading up to the G-20 meetings, Obama urged the other
nations against withdrawing stimulus measures too fast. Cameron
has proposed Britain’s biggest round of budget cuts since World
War II to reduce a deficit worth 11 percent of gross domestic
product, the largest in the Group of 20.  
 By comparison, the U.S.  deficit  this year is forecast to be
10.6 percent of GDP.  
 Growth and Stability  
 “We’re aiming at the same target which is world growth and
stability, but it means those countries that have big deficit
problems like ours have to take action,” Cameron said after he
and Obama met.  
 Both countries have “long-term debts that have to be dealt
with,” Obama said.  
 Obama said the two allies are entering a “critical”
period in the fight to stabilize Afghanistan.  
 “We are convinced that we have the right strategy to
provide the time and the space for the Afghan government to
build up capacity over the next several months and years,”
Obama said.  
 Obama June 23 removed General  Stanley McChrystal  as the
U.S. commander in Afghanistan over a magazine article that
quoted him and unnamed members of his staff disparaging other
administration officials. He was replaced by General  David Petraeus , head of the U.S. Central Command. Petraeus led a surge
of American troops in Iraq that helped defeat an insurgency
there.  
 U.S.-Britain Ties  
 Cameron was the first leader Obama is meeting with
separately while at the G-20 summit, which administration
officials said was meant to underscore the special relationship
between the two countries.  
 Cameron is scheduled to visit Washington on July 20 for
meetings with the U.S. president.  
 The two also settled up on a bet on the U.S.-England match
at soccer’s World Cup. Since the game ended in a tie, Obama and
Cameron exchanged samples of craft-brewed beers; Obama gave
Cameron beer made by Chicago-based brewer Goose Island, and
Cameron have the president some Hobgoblin from England’s
Wychwood Brewery.  
 “I advised him that in America, we drink our beer cold, so
he has to put this in the refrigerator before he drinks it,”
Obama said.  Of the Hobgoblin, Cameron told Obama, “You can
have it cold.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Toronto at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Toronto at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        