-- Caribbean Storms Strengthen, May Head for Oil Spill
-- Eduard Gismatullin
-- 2010-06-26T16:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/caribbean-storms-strengthen-may-head-for-oil-spill.html

          
          
             Residents and businesses along the
Gulf of Mexico face a weekend of watching and planning as the
season’s first tropical storm formed off the Yucatan Peninsula.  
 The storm, called Alex, is about 140 miles (225 kilometers)
east of Belize City and is moving west-northwest at 8 mph,
according to a U.S. National Hurricane Center advisory issued at
11 a.m. New York time. It has maximum sustained winds of 45 mph,
more than the 39 mph threshold needed to be classified a
tropical storm.  
 Alex may become a threat to efforts to clean up the worst
oil spill in U.S. history, as well as to offshore rigs that
produce 30 percent of the country’s oil and 12 percent of its
natural gas.  
 “We are monitoring the situation,” said  Sheila Williams ,
a London-based spokeswoman at BP Plc, in a telephone interview.
“There is no imminent threat” to the Gulf clean-up operations,
she said.  
 “Some slight” strengthening is expected before the center
of Alex reaches the coast of Belize or the Yucatan peninsula
tonight, the hurricane center said in the bulletin.  
 Flooding, Landslides  
 A tropical storm warning was issued for the east coast of
the Yucatan Peninsula from Chetumal northward to Cancun, as well
as the coast of Belize, the hurricane center said. Also, the
center issued a tropical storm warning for the Honduran islands
of Roatan, Guanaja and Utila. The official hurricane center
tracks take the storm into the southern Gulf of Mexico by next
week.  
 The storm is expected to drop as much as 8 inches of rain on
the Yucatan Peninsula, eastern Guatemala, most of Honduras and
Belize through tomorrow evening, and as much as 15 inches in
mountainous areas, which may cause “life threatening” floods
and landslides, the center said. Last month, at least 165 people
died when Tropical Storm Agatha made landfall off the Pacific in
Guatemala.  
 The Gulf is also home to seven of the 10 busiest U.S.
ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.  
 “We will have our first real threat to operations and I am
still worried about the oil slick,”  Jim Rouiller , a senior
energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc.  
 Market Value  
 Rouiller said a tropical storm or hurricane in the spill
area would force all the oil recovery ships to flee, which would
mean free-flowing crude from the rig leased by BP. The well may
be gushing as many as 60,000 barrels of oil a day, according to
U.S. government scientists.  
 BP collected about 16,340 barrels of oil yesterday, the
London-based company said in an  operational  update on its
website.  
 Rig crews would need to begin preparing to evacuate three
to seven days ahead of the storm, U.S. Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen , the government’s national incident commander, said
earlier this week.  
 BP has  lost  more than half of its market value since the
April 20 explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig, which killed 11
crew members and triggered the spill. The company, while being
investigated by U.S. authorities, has agreed with President
 Barack Obama  to deposit $20 billion in an independently managed
account to cover cleanup costs and compensation claims.  
 ‘Equal Risk’  
 Rouiller predicted the storm may hit anywhere from
Brownsville, Texas, to the mouth of the Mississippi. A weather
front that is forecast to bring cooler air to the northern U.S.
may pull the storm on a more northerly track into Louisiana, he
said.  
 “Any part of the Gulf of Mexico right now is at equal risk
of seeing tropical storm conditions,” said Rick Knabb, the
Weather Channel Interactive Inc.’s hurricane expert. “We still
have several days before something could get into the northern
Gulf. As the weekend goes on, the window of opportunity to
prepare is going to shorten.”  
 The storm may also take a more southerly track and become a
threat to Mexico, said  Joe Bastardi , chief hurricane forecaster
at  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College, Pennsylvania.  
 If the storm does miss the spill area, no one should
breathe a sigh of relief, Bastardi said.  
 Storm Potential  
 “This is a real warning shot that this season isn’t going
to monkey around,” Bastardi said by telephone. “It is a sign
that the pot is bubbling and if it doesn’t boil over in July it
will in August.”  
 Alex could be the first storm to hit the U.S. since
Tropical Storm Ida went ashore near Mobile, Alabama, last
November, according to hurricane center records.  
 If Alex develops into a hurricane before making landfall,
it would be the first one to strike the U.S. since  Hurricane Ike 
plowed into Galveston, Texas, in September 2008 as a Category 2
storm, causing an estimated $24.9 billion of damaged, according
to the hurricane center.  
 The trip over the Yucatan may also destroy the storm and
eliminate the threat to the Gulf, Knabb said.  
 “There are a couple of reliable models that show it almost
dissipating,” Knabb said by telephone from Atlanta.  
 Academic, commercial and government forecasters are
predicting the 2010 Atlantic hurricane season will be one of the
most active on record.  
 Busy Season  
 In May, the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric
Administration predicted an above-average season with 14 to 23
named storms forming by Nov. 30. The most active season on
record was 2005, when 28 storms formed, including Hurricane
Katrina, which caused  New Orleans levees to fail , flooding the
city and killing more than 1,800 people.  
 In June,  Colorado State University  researchers boosted
their forecast, calling for 18 named storms, 10 of them becoming
hurricanes. AccuWeather increased its outlook to 18 to 21 storms
from 16 to 18.  
 “There is going to be an orgy of naming at the height of
the season,” Bastardi said.  
 A system receives a name when sustained winds reach 39 mph
(63 kph), and becomes a hurricane when those winds hit 74 mph.
The Atlantic season runs from June 1 through Nov. 30.  
 “At this time in 2005, we only had one named storm, and we
ended up with 28,” Knabb said. “The fact that we haven’t had a
storm yet doesn’t mean anything because hurricane season usually
starts slow.”  
 Trailing the storm system now edging toward the Gulf is
another area of disturbed weather east of the Lesser Antilles
islands that the hurricane center gives a 10 percent chance of
becoming a storm in the next two days.  
 Bastardi said that storm, if it develops, will probably
take a more northerly track away from the Gulf. However, he said
he believes yet another system may develop to become a threat to
the Gulf within the next 10 days.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
 Eduard Gismatullin  in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        