-- China's Zhou Eyes Bigger Role for Emerging Economies as G-20 Leaders Meet
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-26T08:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/china-s-zhou-eyes-bigger-role-for-emerging-economies-as-g-20-leaders-meet.html

          
          
             Chinese central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said emerging nations must play a bigger role in world
financial reforms and another official indicated China could be
at the forefront of adopting revised rules.  
 Problems such as financial crises “can no longer be solved
properly under the old traditional framework,” Zhou  wrote  in a
commentary published on Caijing magazine’s website today to
coincide with a financial forum in China. At the Shanghai event,
Deputy Governor Yi Gang said the nation could benefit from
moving swiftly.  
 Leaders of the Group of 20 nations meeting in Toronto today
will discuss altering financial rules to prevent a repeat of the
2008 crisis that triggered a global recession. The U.S. will
argue for tougher regulation of the derivatives market, stronger
capital requirements for banks and safeguards against market
manipulation, according to President  Barack Obama .  
 The G-20 includes the U.S., the European Union, Japan,
Germany and emerging economies such as China, India and Brazil.
Zhou is attending the summit as part of a Chinese delegation led
by President  Hu Jintao .  
 Since a G-20 summit in London, developing nations and
emerging economies have had a “louder voice,” Zhou wrote in
the article. “There has been consensus that their participation
is needed in coordinated actions in global economic and
financial policies, as well as in the drafting of rules for
global financial regulation.”  
 ‘Challenges’ for China  
 China’s rising influence poses “challenges” for the
nation, said Zhou, citing the need for policy makers to assess
key issues and reach a consensus.  
 China should actively participate in efforts to draft
regulatory rules and could benefit by being at the forefront of
adopting them, his colleague Yi said today. Yi sees an
opportunity to narrow a gap between Chinese and international
standards and strengthen the safety of the domestic financial
system, he said in a speech.  
 “Other countries may take a long time to debate those
standards and it may be difficult for them to reach a
consensus,” said Yi, who’s also the head of China’s currency
regulator, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange.  
 -- Li Yanping ,  Rong Feiwen . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Richard Dobson .  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        