-- China Mobile Interested in Investing in Africa, Has No Target Company Yet
-- Nasreen Seria
-- 2010-06-26T19:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/china-mobile-interested-in-investing-in-africa-has-no-target-company-yet.html

          
          
             China Mobile Ltd. , the world’s
biggest phone carrier, is interested in investing in Africa,
where it can boost services in rural areas, Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  said.  
 The company doesn’t have any acquisition targets in Africa
yet and hasn’t identified a specific region on the continent
where it would like to invest, Wang said in an interview at the
 Fortune Global Forum  in Cape Town today.  
 China Mobile is searching for investments and acquisitions
to revive profit growth and expand its overseas operations.
Parent company China Mobile Communications Corp. bought
Pakistan’s Paktel Ltd., its first overseas acquisition, in 2007.  
 “We are interested in doing business in Africa, but we
have no target company now,” Wang said. “We are still looking
at options. We would like to use our experience” in expanding
services in rural areas. “If we have an opportunity, we’d like
to use that in African markets.”  
 The Beijing-based company this year agreed to buy a 20
percent stake in Shanghai Pudong Development Bank Co., a move
that Wang said will help boost its wireless payment and finance
operations.  
 “The purpose is to push business for mobile payments,”
said Wang. “We hope the mobile phone will become a device for
payments.”  
 Investment in Africa, the world’s poorest continent, is
rising as investors seek to tap a market that has just surpassed
1 billion people and China’s drive for commodities, such as
 copper  and steel, boosts economic growth. Sub-Saharan Africa’s
economy will probably expand 5.9 percent in 2011, up from an
estimated 4.7 percent this year, according to the International
Monetary Fund.  
 Domestic Market Potential  
 China Mobile still sees “huge potential” in its domestic
market as it expands operations in China’s rural areas, and
increases data and financial services, Wang said.  
 “In rural areas, there is still low penetration,” Wang
said. “We still have big potential for growth. China Mobile
will continue to grow in the domestic market.”  
 China Mobile said on April 20 first-quarter  profit  rose 1.1
percent to 25.5 billion yuan ($3.8 billion), trailing the 26.9
billion yuan median analysts’ estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
The carrier added fewer subscribers in the first three months
this year as competition from China Telecom Corp. and China
Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. intensified.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Cape Town at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        