-- China's Zhou Eyes Bigger Role for Emerging Economies as G-20 Leaders Meet
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/china-central-banker-yi-gang-sees-room-to-maneuver-in-monetary-policies.html

          
          
             Chinese officials indicated the
nation wants to play a bigger role in reshaping the post-crisis
global economy and could be at the forefront of adopting new
financial rules, as a Group of 20 summit began in Toronto.  
 Problems such as financial crises “can no longer be solved
properly under the old traditional framework,” central bank
Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan   wrote   in a commentary published on
Caijing magazine’s website yesterday. “There should be more
participation of emerging-market nations.”  
 Zhou is in a Chinese delegation attending the G-20 meeting
in Canada where leaders are discussing how to reform global
financial regulation and sustain the recovery from the worst
economic slump since World War II. China moved to minimize
criticism of its currency policy at the summit by indicating on
June 19 that it was scrapping the yuan’s peg to the dollar.  
 “Nobody has the luxury of ignoring China,”  Peter Mandelson , a former European Union trade commissioner, said at a
financial forum in Shanghai yesterday. “China’s own terms have
started being an integral part of multilateral diplomacy.”  
 Zhou’s comments were published to coincide with the same
two-day event, where one of his colleagues, Vice Governor  Yi Gang  said yesterday that China should actively participate in
efforts to draft international financial rules and could benefit
by being at the forefront of adopting them.  
 ‘Louder Voice’  
 China is poised to overtake Japan as the world’s second-
biggest economy this year, giving the nation added clout in
global forums. Mandelson also said yesterday that it was
important to reform the International Monetary Fund to reflect
the nation’s influence.  
 Since a G-20 summit in London, developing nations and
emerging economies have had a “louder voice,” Zhou wrote.
“There has been consensus that their participation is needed in
coordinated actions in global economic and financial policies,
as well as in the drafting of rules for global financial
regulation.”  
 The G-20 includes the U.S., the European Union, Japan,
Germany and emerging economies such as China, India and Brazil.
Zhou is attending the summit as part of a Chinese delegation led
by President  Hu Jintao . The U.S. is arguing for tougher
regulation of the derivatives market, stronger capital
requirements for banks and safeguards against market
manipulation, President  Barack Obama  said ahead of the meetings.  
 U.S., Europe  
 Other speakers at the Shanghai forum also focused on
China’s expanding role.  
 The central bank’s pledge of a more flexible yuan, a policy
shift that may help to redress global imbalances, shows the
nation’s leaders “are prepared to take a bigger
responsibility,” said  Charles Dallara , managing director of the
Institute of International Finance, a banking industry group.  
 “Now it’s up to the U.S. and Europe and other key
economies such as Japan to show that they can assume a greater
responsibility for their share of leading the global economy to
a sustainable recovery,” Dallara said. “Bickering between the
U.S. and Europe about fiscal reform is not a good idea. The
markets are fragile.”  
 China’s monetary policy was also discussed at the event in
Shanghai yesterday. Yi, the central banker, said China has
“room to maneuver so that we can loosen or tighten whenever we
see appropriate.”  
 Analysts are split on whether the People’s Bank of China
will raise interest rates this year as the economy surges back
from the financial crisis, a Bloomberg News survey showed last
week.  Li Daokui , an academic adviser to the central bank, told
reporters at the same forum on June 25 that inflation
expectations are easing, weakening the case for a rate increase.  
 -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Zhang Dingmin , Chua Kong Ho,
 Luo Jun . Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Stephanie Wong.  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Zhou Eyes Bigger Emerging-Nation Role  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         China's central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan is in a delegation attending the G-20 meeting in Canada. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     China's central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan is in a delegation attending the G-20 meeting in Canada. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
