-- FIFA Says It Isn't `Deaf' to World Cup Ball Complaints, Will Meet Adidas
-- Dan Baynes
-- 2010-06-26T16:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/fifa-says-it-isn-t-deaf-to-world-cup-ball-complaints-will-meet-adidas.html

          
          
             Soccer’s governing body said it
acknowledged complaints about the  Adidas AG  ball being used at
the World Cup in South Africa, though won’t address the issue
until after the tournament.  
 With some players and coaches saying the Jabulani ball
is unpredictable and flies through the air too easily, FIFA
Secretary General  Jerome Valcke  said his organization would
discuss the matter with coaches and teams before meeting with
Adidas after the tournament.  
 “We’re not deaf,” Valcke told reporters in Johannesburg
today. “FIFA is not unreceptive about what has been said about
the ball. This is a very different ball perhaps.”  
 Adidas has been making the World Cup ball since Mexico
hosted the event in 1970. Jabulani is the first tournament ball
to be molded from eight “thermally bonded 3D panels” to create
a perfect sphere, replacing previous models with flat panels,
according to FIFA’s  website . The ball’s aerodynamic profile
enhances control and stabilizes flight, it said.  
 England goalkeeper  David James  described the Jabulani as
“rubbish,” saying in a June 12 interview that it is “just not
a very good football.” Seven days later, Ghana coach Milovan
Rajevac said his players complained that it is “difficult to
play.”  
 “You never know what the ball’s trajectory will be once it
hits the turf,” Rajevac said after an error by the Ghana
goalkeeper gave Australia a goal in a 1-1 draw on June 19.
“Players don’t know how to resolve the problem.”  
 Ronaldo’s Radar  
 It’s not just goalkeepers who have struggled. One of the
attacking players yet to master the Jabulani is Portugal captain
 Cristiano Ronaldo , FIFA’s 2008 world player of the year. Of the
17 shots Ronaldo has had at the tournament,  seven were on target ,
according to statistics provided by FIFA.  
 None of Ronaldo’s four free kicks hit the target and his
only goal in three games came in a 7-0 rout of North Korea after
the ball popped up, rolled off his neck and onto his right foot.  
 Herzogenaurach, Germany-based Adidas said the players had
enough time to get used to the ball, which was released at the
beginning of the year. The 440-gram (15-ounce) Jabulani, which
means “to rejoice” in Zulu, fits the criteria laid down by
FIFA, Adidas spokesman  Erik van Leeuwen  said June 14.  
 “People have to adapt themselves to it,” Van Leeuwen said.
“It’s nothing to do with the Jabulani.”  
 Six of the 10  World Cup stadiums  are above 1,200 meters
(3,937 feet), where the air is thinner. That may be affecting
the Jabulani’s movement, Van Leeuwen said. A ball kicked at
altitude travels 5 percent faster than one kicked in Durban,
which is at sea level, he said.  
 All participating countries approved the ball in February,
FIFA said.  
 “Our relationship with Adidas is very constructive and
there is nothing more important in a World Cup than the ball,”
Valcke added. “If there are problems with the ball we will
discuss it with them.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Durban through the Johannesburg newsroom
   dbaynes@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        