-- G-20 May Stress Need to Cut Deficits as Leaders Split on Urgency of Target
-- Kristin Jensen
-- 2010-06-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/g-20-leaders-said-to-stress-cutting-deficits-without-commitment-on-timing.html

          
          
             Group of 20 leaders are poised to
endorse targets to tackle  deficits  while giving nations
flexibility on when to start balancing their books, according to
officials with knowledge of drafts of the final statement.  
 Leaders will agree today on the need to cut deficits, while
urging countries with the most precarious fiscal positions to
accelerate their plans, according to the officials who declined
to be identified by name because a final version of the
statement hasn’t been completed.  
 The G-20 has to bridge a gap between leaders such as
President  Barack Obama  who want to focus on growth and officials
such as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  who favor budget cuts.  
 “Discussions in the G-8 have shown that it is possible to
reconcile some conceptual differences,” European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  told reporters in Toronto yesterday. “We
expect the G-20 to agree on concrete targets for deficit
reduction and the stabilization and reduction of debt.”  
 The draft of the statement includes targets championed by
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  for countries to halve
deficits by 2013 and start to stabilize their debt-to-output
ratios by 2016, the officials said. Some countries, such as
Brazil, are resisting the inclusion of those specific deadlines.  
 Draconian, Difficult  
 “It is draconian, a little difficult, a little
exaggerated,” said Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega .
“Some countries would not be able to do it. It is clear that a
cut is needed, but at what velocity? It can’t be too fast.”  
 The officials said the G-20 statement today will echo an
agreement reached by finance chiefs in Busan, South Korea,
earlier this month.  
 The agreement would effectively endorse the austerity plan
set out by the U.K., which has the highest deficit in the group,
while acknowledging U.S. concerns that countries shouldn’t be
required to start cutting public spending until their own
recoveries are fully entrenched. The G-20 will call also on
countries with current account surpluses, such as Germany and
China, to increase sustainable economic growth, the official
added.  
 “The speed and timing” of fiscal consolidation “must be
tailored to national circumstances, so we do not derail the
recovery under way,” Australian Deputy Prime Minister  Wayne Swan  told a business audience in Toronto yesterday.  
 Larger Group  
 The G-20, which accounts for about 85 percent of the global
economy, replaced the G-8 last year as the world’s foremost
international policy-coordinating forum. The larger group means
developed and emerging economies are trying to find common
ground amid differences in prosperity that vary from the U.S.’s
$46,400 in  GDP per capita  to India’s $3,100.  
 The leaders may opt to include fewer specifics in their
final statement. Yesterday, they emphasized areas of accord in
their fiscal policies, with Obama saying he and U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  are “aiming at the same direction.”
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said he saw no “clash”
between countries on the issue, and Harper called it a
“balancing act.”  
 “As recovery takes hold at different rates around the
world and as domestic political pressures figure more
prominently than the threat of a global meltdown, one can expect
these declarations to become increasingly general,” said  Dan Price , who served as former President  George W. Bush ’s G-20
negotiator.  
 Leading the Charge  
 European nations have led the charge on the deficits.
Merkel said in an interview with ZDF television that she lobbied
her counterparts at the G-8 meeting to pursue “solid” fiscal
policies and defended her own plan to reduce Germany’s budget  
deficit  by about 10 billion euros ($12.4 billion).  
 U.S. Treasuries are having their best year since 1995,
returning 5 percent through June 24, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data, as investors seek alternatives
to Europe, where Greece and Spain had their credit ratings
downgraded.  
 “European countries just had a near-death experience over
Greece,” said  Tony Fratto , a former Treasury and White House
official under Bush. “Some are afraid of suffering the same
fate.”  
 U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  urged G-20 leaders
to focus on growth. The world economy is still emerging from the
“fires of the crisis” and “the scars of this crisis are still
with us” he said in prepared remarks for a press conference.  
 ‘Same Target’  
 “We’re aiming at the same target, which is world growth
and stability,” Cameron told reporters as he met with Obama in
Toronto yesterday. “But it means those countries that have big
deficit problems like ours” have to take “action in order to
keep that level of confidence in the economy.”  
 Obama agreed that rising debt is an issue.  
 “We have long-term deficits that have to be dealt with,”
Obama said. “There are going to be differentiated responses
between the two countries because of our different positions,
but we are aiming at the same direction.”  
 Outside the security zone that surrounds the meeting forum,
protests turned violent as thousands of demonstrators marched
through central Toronto. Protesters set fire to cars; others
threw rocks at the windows of First Canadian Place, headquarters
of the  Bank of Montreal , and spray-painted “Bomb the banks” on
the building.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net 
 Kristin Jensen  in Toronto at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     German Chancellor Angela Merkel lobbied her counterparts at a G-8 meeting to pursue "solid" fiscal policies. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
