-- Geithner Urges G-20 Leaders to Keep Focus on Domestic Demand Not Deficits
-- John Brinsley
-- 2010-06-26T21:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/geithner-urges-g-20-leaders-to-keep-focus-on-domestic-demand-not-deficits.html

          
          
             U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  urged Group of 20 leaders at a summit this weekend in
Canada to commit to policies that ensure the global economic
recovery won’t be derailed.  
 Countries, particularly Japan and others in Europe, need to
do more to boost domestic demand instead of just looking for
ways to slash their budgets, Geithner said at a press conference
in Toronto. China has already adopted such growth-oriented
policies, while the U.S. is doing its part to rebalance the
global economy by boosting national savings and investment, he
said.  
 Other major economies are not doing enough to encourage
growth after the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression, Geithner said. He said only a few countries, such as
Greece and Spain, must reassure markets by cutting spending now,
and he said growth would be a central focus of G-20 meetings
today and tomorrow.  
 Japan and other European countries haven’t yet produced “a
set of policies that will again give everyone confidence that
you’re going to see stronger domestic demand growth in those
countries going forward,” Geithner said. “That’s a very
important debate. That’s a much more complicated debate than the
simple question of how fast people move to restrain on the
fiscal side.”  
 European leaders continue to press for more emphasis on
government spending. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said her
view that German consumers would spend more if they feel their
nation’s finances are in order received “very broad
understanding,” in an interview with ZDF television.  
 Divisions  
 U.S. President  Barack Obama  is urging world leaders to
maintain stimulus measures, putting him at odds with European
leaders who are emphasizing reducing their budget deficits. The
U.S. also is pushing to increase capital standards for banks
around the world, while European leaders want all of the G-20
nations to commit to some kind of bank levy.  
 Geithner said the world needs simple and objective
standards for banks to rein in risk, adding that U.S. efforts to
forge a global consensus have been strengthened by the financial
overhaul approved yesterday by congressional negotiators. He
said the Obama administration also supports European efforts to
increase derivatives oversight, while admitting that some parts
of the U.S. legislation won’t gain support overseas.  
 The U.S. and Europe “are very, very close on the core
elements of it,” Geithner said. “There are some additional
provisions that we’ve put into our bill that I do think that go
beyond that consensus. We want to make sure we have as uniform
positions as possible.”  
 Crisis ‘Scars’  
 The world economy is emerging from the “fires of the
crisis” and “the scars of this crisis are still with us,”
Geithner said in his prepared remarks today in Toronto ahead of
the G-20 meeting. “This summit must be fundamentally about
growth.”  
 Geithner praised European leaders for implementing a
“powerful financial stability program,” and noted the U.S. is
about to pass legislation that will overhaul its banking
institutions. He also welcomed China’s announcement this week
that it will allow more flexibility in its currency.  
 Geithner said Obama is working toward reducing the U.S.
deficit “to a sustainable position,” and said all G-20 nations
agree on the need to maintain a united front in getting the
global economy back on track. He said the G-20 must remain
vigilant against acting too soon to withdraw emergency
assistance.  
 Recovery  
 “We’re going to avoid that mistake by making sure that we
recognize that it’s only been a year since the world economy
stopped collapsing,” Geithner said.  
 “What we share is a recognition that if the world economy
is to expand at its potential, if growth is going to be
sustainable in the future, then we need to act together to
strengthen the recovery and finish the job of repairing the
damage of the crisis,” the Treasury chief said. “And we agree
on the need to restore balance to a world economy that got
dangerously out of whack.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Brinsley  in Toronto at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner speaks at a news conference in Toronto on June 26, 2010. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
