-- Recovery Is `Fragile;' Nations Must Resist Protectionism, G-8 Leaders Say
-- Gonzalo Vina
-- 2010-06-26T20:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/group-of-eight-leaders-say-recovery-fragile-vow-to-resist-protectionism.html

          
          
             Group of Eight leaders meeting today
pledged to resist protectionism and engage in regional trade
negotiations as they work to sustain a “fragile” global
economic recovery.  
 The group reiterated its support for the Doha trade accord
even as leaders acknowledged that it faces challenges. Leaders
said they would work on a parallel track to reduce barriers to
open markets and pursue bilateral and regional agreements.  
 “Those of us who favor liberalized trade are not going to
stand still,” Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  told
reporters at the conclusion of a G-8 meeting today in
Huntsville, Ontario. While the larger trade accord faces
difficulties, “I would never go so far as to say Doha is
dead,” Harper said.  
 The officials are now moving onto a larger Group of 20
summit today in Toronto, where the balancing act between reining
in deficits and spurring growth will be a major subject.
President  Barack Obama  also will be pushing his counterparts to
increase capital standards for banks.  
 “This economic crisis exposed and exacerbated
vulnerabilities already embedded in integrated global
economies,” the group said in a statement issued after the
meeting. Still, “progress is being made, through the work of
the G-20, towards the sustainable recovery of our global
economic and financial system.”  
 Downplaying Differences  
 German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said in an interview with
ZDF television that she lobbied her counterparts for “solid”
fiscal policies and defended her country’s moves to trim budget
deficits.  
 Harper and other leaders downplayed differences they had
coming into the G-8 and G-20 meetings. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said G-8 officials agreed on a “coordinated exit” from
economic stimulus and didn’t “clash” over budget deficits.  
 “I have never seen a G-8 more fundamentally united in
purpose, more frank in its discussions,” Harper said. “I think
that will carry forward into the G-20.”  
 World Trade Organization negotiations on a new trade accord
have been dogged by clashes between rich and poor economies
since they began in Doha, Qatar in 2001. Leaders including U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  have expressed frustration in
recent days over the slow progress.  
 $300 Billion  
 A successful conclusion of the Doha Round of trade talks
would inject $300 billion annually into the global economy,
World Trade Organization Director General  Pascal Lamy  said in
May. The G-8 leaders today pushed for a final agreement while
also signaling the need for less complex accords.  
 It’s the first time the G-8 has spoken about the need for
direct deals between countries. A year ago, leaders in L’Aquila,
Italy said the best way to spur growth was by unblocking
negotiations in order to “reach an ambitious and balanced
conclusion” of the Doha Development Round.  
 Obama worked on one of those agreements today, in a one-on-
one meeting with South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  in
Toronto. The U.S. president said he is trying to revive free-
trade talks ahead of his November visit to Seoul.  
 As they work to boost their own economies, the leaders said
they are also committed to funding initiatives in developing
nations. Yesterday, the group announced a $7.3 billion
initiative to promote child and maternal health in poor nations
and today said the total investment may top $10 billion.  
 International Warnings  
 The group sounded warnings on international political
issues, singling out Iran for a “continued lack of transparency
regarding its nuclear activities.” The leaders called on the
country to follow international requirements and “restore
international confidence” in its nuclear program.  
 G-8 leaders also said they “deplore” the March 26 attack
on the South Korean warship Cheonan. An international panel
blamed the attack on North Korea, which has denied involvement.  
 “We demand that the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
refrain from committing any attacks or threatening hostilities
against the Republic of Korea,” the group said. “We support
the Republic of Korea in its efforts to seek accountability.”  
 The G-8 renewed its support for Afghanistan’s transition to
self-government, calling for “concrete progress” on helping
the Afghan National Security forces take over security
responsibilities within five years. The statement also called
for continued improvements in Afghanistan’s justice and
electoral systems.  
 ‘Clear Steps’  
 “Clear steps by Afghanistan towards more credible,
inclusive and transparent parliamentary elections in September
will be an important step forward in the country’s maturing
democracy,” the G-8 said.  
 The G-8 leaders didn’t mention China’s currency, often a
subject of concern. China today reiterated its commitment to
allow further flexibility in the currency in a statement
distributed to reporters.  
 China’s move was welcomed by the world, said  Zhang Tao ,
head of the international department at China’s central bank. He
told reporters today in Toronto that he hasn’t seen any change
in pressure from the G-20 on the issue.  
 Economic fundamentals, not foreign pressure, should
determine exchange rates, said  Ma Xin , a director general at the
National Development and Reform Commission, China’s top planning
agency.  
 G-8 leaders reaffirmed their support for the Copenhagen
agreement on climate change and said the goal is to cut
emissions of greenhouse gases by 50 percent by 2050.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gonzalo Vina  in Toronto at 
 ginva@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Toronto at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        