-- Johnson & Johnson Diabetes Drug Lowers Blood Sugar, Trims Weight in Study
-- Elizabeth Lopatto
-- 2010-06-26T18:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/johnson-johnson-diabetes-drug-lowers-blood-sugar-trims-weight-in-study.html

          
          
             Johnson & Johnson’s  first candidate
treatment for diabetes improved blood sugar control and helped
patients lose weight, a study showed.  
 The 12-week study of patients who were also taking the
generic drug metformin found the lowest dose of J&J’s
canagliflozin reduced blood sugar 0.8 percent, and the highest
dose lowered blood sugar 0.9 percent. Patients in the trial who
were given Merck & Co.’s Januvia instead had reductions of 0.7
percent. The J&J-funded study didn’t have enough patients to
compare which treatment was better, the company said in a
statement.  
 J&J, based in New Brunswick, New Jersey, is testing
canagliflozin as its first drug for diabetes that will compete
with  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. ’s dapagliflozin, which also had
data reported today. J&J’s  Lifescan  unit makes blood glucose
meters, allowing diabetic patients to see if their blood sugar
is too high, and had  revenue  of $2.4 billion last year. The
company has started enrolling patients for its final-stage
studies of the drug for diabetes.  
 “It helps that people understand they’ve already committed
to the space,” said  Michael G. King , an analyst for Wedbush
Morgan Securities, in a June 25 interview “The question is,
‘Why doesn’t J&J have an insulin and a GPL-1?” said King,
referring to another category of drugs that includes Byetta from
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co.  and Victoza from Denmark-
based  Novo Nordisk A/S .  
 Diabetes Meeting  
 Results were presented today at the American Diabetes
Association’s  annual meeting  in Orlando, Florida.  
 Canagliflozin works by letting the body excrete more
glucose through the urine. The kidneys have a kind of built-in
thermostat; any rise above a certain amount of blood sugar
triggers a response that sends the excess into the urine.
Canagliflozin lowers the temperature on the thermostat, so more
sugar goes into the urine, while allowing enough blood sugar to
continue circulating to avoid hypoglycemia, said Kirk Ways, the
head of canagliflozin development at the company.  
 Patients taking canagliflozin decreased their weight by 2.3
to 3.4 percent. Patients taking placebo and metformin had 1.1
percent weight loss, and those on Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey-based Merck’s Januvia dropped 0.6 percent.  
 New York-based  Bristol-Myers  and London-based  AstraZeneca
Plc  make another experimental drug, dapagliflozin, which works
the same way. Results from a phase 3 trial also announced today
showed that dapagliflozin, in combination with insulin, worked
better than insulin plus a placebo.  
 Blood Sugar Levels  
 The 800-person study showed reductions of 0.75 percent in
blood sugar for the lowest dose and 0.90 percent for the highest
dose of the Bristol-Myers drug. Patients who got a placebo and
insulin had declines of 0.3 percent.  
 Additionally, patients who took dapagliflozin and insulin
lost weight while patients only on insulin gained weight. Taking
dapagliflozin allowed patients to lower their insulin dose.  
 If dapagliflozin launches first, it will probably get more
of the market share, said  Les Funtleyder , an analyst for Miller
Tabak & Co.  
 “Johnson & Johnson has a lot going in its favor, but they
have to get through Bristol,” Funtleyder said in a June 23
telephone interview. “Maybe there’s room for two.”  
 Today’s data are part of a push by J&J into diabetes
treatment. On June 22, the company entered into an agreement
worth as much as $330 million with privately held Metabolex
Inc., based in Hayward, California, to develop diabetes drugs.
The same day, Diamyd Medical AB announced it would partner with
J&J on a drug for Type 1 diabetes, worth as much as $625 million
for the Stockholm, Sweden-based company. The drug is in the
final stage of development.  
 “Johnson & Johnson would like a more holistic approach,
through nutritionals, devices, surgical techniques, and having a
drug that would treat Type 2 diabetes, and offers added benefits
over other drugs,” said J&J’s Ways.  
 Canagliflozin has “potential to be a blockbuster,”
Funtleyder said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        