-- Kagan Court Nomination Helps Interest Groups Raise Money, Rally Support
-- Laura Litvan
-- 2010-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/kagan-court-nomination-helps-interest-groups-raise-money-rally-support.html

          
          
             Anti-abortion group  Americans United
for Life  is trying to raise $360,000 with an e-mail pitch that
calls U.S. Supreme Court nominee  Elena Kagan  “the most
virulent, pro-abortion” nominee in more than a decade.  
 Its rival,  NARAL Pro-Choice America , is collecting names,
addresses and cell phone numbers of prospective members while
asking people to send e-mails urging senators to ensure Kagan
gets a fair confirmation hearing.  
 As the  Senate Judiciary Committee  prepares for the hearings
that begin June 28, observers say some interest groups’
activities may promote the organizations themselves more than
they affect the way senators vote.  
 “The extent to which these groups influence the outcome,
who knows?” said  Lee Epstein , a Northwestern University Law
School professor who tracks the Supreme Court. “It has a lot to
do with their own organizational maintenance.”  
 Curt Levey , executive director of the  Committee for
Justice , said donations are almost 30 percent higher since she
was nominated, compared with the time period last year after
President  Barack Obama  made  Sonia Sotomayor  his first high court
choice. The Washington group has an ad on its website that calls
Kagan an “Obama radical” and urges people to help “rally
millions of Americans” against her nomination.  
 “Conservatives just feel a lot more empowered” because of
Obama’s sagging approval ratings and their own effect on
Republican congressional primaries so far this year, Levey said.
“People thought Obama was unbeatable a year ago.”  
 Chief Courtroom Lawyer  
 Kagan, 50, who as solicitor general is the Obama
administration’s chief courtroom lawyer, was nominated May 10 to
replace retiring Justice  John Paul Stevens .  
 There was a time when outside groups were only modestly
involved in Supreme Court confirmations. Epstein said the battle
over President  Ronald Reagan ’s unsuccessful 1987 effort to
replace Justice  Lewis Powell  with appeals court judge  Robert Bork  changed all that.  
 Thirty-eight interest groups provided oral or written
testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee when Bork was
nominated, Epstein said. Just two offered testimony in 1953 when
Chief Justice  Earl Warren  was confirmed, she said.  
 The lobbying has grown. By Epstein’s count, 218 groups
weighed in when Sotomayor was confirmed last year.  
 Among the groups working on the Kagan confirmation,
Americans United for Life is among the most active.  
 ‘Kagan File’  
 The group, which is trying to raise $360,000 by June 30,
sends a daily “Kagan File” e-mail spelling out its reasons for
opposing her. More than 6,600 people have joined a “Stop
Kagan” group the anti-abortion association started on the
Facebook social networking site.  
 “We’re certainly getting the message out more broadly,”
said  Bill Saunders , senior counsel for Americans United for
Life.  
 NARAL Pro-Choice America’s website says the “future of
women’s access to abortion hangs in the balance” as it urges
viewers to use an online format to send e-mails to their
senators.  
 People for the American Way , which says it supports civil
rights and “progressive” policies, is focusing on rulings by
the Supreme Court under Chief Justice  John Roberts , said Marge
Baker, the group’s executive vice president.  
 The group says the court’s decisions put the needs of
corporations over ordinary Americans, including a January ruling
that struck down decades-old restrictions on campaign spending.  
 Limited Tool  
 Some organizations supporting Kagan say her nomination’s
use as a fundraising tool is limited.  
 At NARAL, Kagan isn’t being used in direct fundraising,
with donors more interested in the November congressional
elections and the new health-care law’s effect on abortion
rights, said NARAL President  Nancy Keenan .  
 “I would wholeheartedly agree that it’s not a very
controversial” nomination, Keenan said.  
 The NAACP endorsed Kagan five days after she was nominated,
though there are no immediate plans for television ads, said
Hilary Shelton, director of the NAACP’s Washington office.  
 “There doesn’t seem to be much controversy,” Shelton
said. “So it’s more low-key.”  
 On both sides, advocacy groups say their plans for next
week are flexible and will be partly based on their need to
respond to the opposition or what comes out at the hearings.  
 Americans United for Life and the Washington-based  Judicial
Crisis Network , which also opposes confirmation, plan television
ads targeting Democratic senators from Republican-leaning states
in an attempt to chip away at the final vote.  
 Gary Marx, executive director of the Judicial Crisis
Network, said his group will target Democratic senators
including  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska,  Blanche  Lincoln of Arkansas,
 Kent Conrad  of North Dakota and  Mark Begich  of Alaska. It will
mark the first TV ads for the group since it spent $500,000 just
before the 2008 presidential election, Marx said.  
 “What you’re seeing is the calm before the storm,” said
 Charmaine Yoest , president of Americans United for Life.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        