-- Ken Courtis Says He Sees Chance of `Substantially' Lower Equity Markets
-- Renee Bonorchis
-- 2010-06-26T17:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/ken-courtis-says-he-sees-chance-of-substantially-lower-equity-markets.html

          
          
             The global financial crisis is far
from over, with more countries and companies likely to default
on their debt, according to  Kenneth Courtis , the founding
partner of Themes Investment Management.  
 “I don’t think people broadly yet understand the crisis we
are in,” Curtis told the Fortune Global Forum in Cape Town
today. “People are thrashing around for hope.”  
 Curtis served as Goldman Sachs Group Inc., vice chairman
for Asia and as chief economist and managing director at
Deutsche Bank AG before founding his own company.  
 More trouble is coming, he said, adding that “we just
haven’t gotten to it yet.” He also said he would be “very
surprised” if equity markets weren’t substantially lower a year
from now than they are today.  
 Several other speakers at the three-day forum, which aims
to showcase Africa during the soccer World Cup, also voiced
concern over the fragility of the global economy.  
 “It is too early to say we are out of danger,” said  Maria Ramos , chief executive of  Absa Group Ltd. , South Africa’s
largest retail bank . “I have a deep concern that we
underestimated how deep and structural the recession has been.
You can’t deal with the massive, structural debt problems in the
developed world by just cutting the deficit for a year or two.’  
 The World Bank expects the global economy to expand 3.3
percent this year, while the International Monetary Fund is
expecting growth of about 4.2 percent.  
 “The rich countries have fired all their fiscal bullets,”
said Ian Golding, director of Oxford University’s James Martin’s
21st Century School. “There is a danger of a double-dip
recession coming out of the cutbacks.”  
 Hernando de Soto , the Peruvian economist who heads the
Lima-based Institute for Liberty and Democracy, said a lack of
disclosure on investment in derivatives made it impossible to
assess the risk they posed to economic stability.  
 “You have now created the world’s largest shadow economy
and it’s called derivatives,” he said. “You don’t know how
much paper is out there relative to assets.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        