-- New Orleans Chef Sues BP Over Damages to Restaurants Selling Gulf Seafood
-- Margaret Cronin Fisk
-- 2010-06-26T18:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/new-orleans-chef-sues-bp-over-losses-to-restaurants-selling-gulf-seafood.html

          
          
             Chef  Susan Spicer , of  Bayona 
restaurant in New Orleans and a judge on “Top Chef,” sued  BP
Plc  for damages to restaurants that can’t access their customary
supplies of fresh seafood from the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Spicer filed a proposed class action on behalf of chefs
“whose occupation was destroyed and/or adversely and
detrimentally affected” by the worst oil spill in U.S. history,
caused by the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig off the
Louisiana coast in April.  
 “Much of the plaintiff’s business is based on the unique
quality of Louisiana seafood, as well as the chain of delivery
of that resource from the initial harvester,” said Serena
Pollack, one of Bayona’s lawyers, in papers filed late yesterday
in New Orleans federal court. “Because this chain of delivery
cannot be maintained, plaintiff’s business has been and
continues to be materially damaged.”  
 BP spokesman  Mark Salt  declined to comment on the suit.  
 Spicer judged a recent  “Top Chef”  competition on Bravo TV
and is an occasional panelist on the Food Network’s “Iron Chef
America” cooking challenge. She received the  James Beard
Foundation  Award as best chef in the southeastern U.S. in 1993,
and is a consultant for the HBO series “ Treme ,” about life in
post-Katrina New Orleans.  
 Bayona, in New Orleans’s French Quarter, has earned four
stars in the Mobil travel guide. The Zagat Survey has ranked
Bayona among the city’s top five restaurants since 1995.  
 Higher Prices  
 Spicer’s complaint says that restaurants must pay higher
prices for the dwindling supply of Gulf seafood and must also
ship seafood in from other regions because of the closure of
much of the Gulf to commercial fishing.  
 The latest National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
bulletin says 32.5 percent of the Gulf fishery, the nation’s
second largest, is closed due to concerns over contamination
from the BP oil spill.  
 Pollack, the lawyer, said in the filing slower tourism and
convention business on the Gulf Coast because of the spill is
depressing restaurant sales.  
 Bayona’s suit seeks unspecified actual and punitive damages
from BP, which has primary liability as owner of the offshore
lease, and from  Transocean Ltd. , which owned the drilling rig.
 Halliburton Energy Services Inc.  and  Cameron International
Corp. , which supplied the rig’s cementing services and blowout
prevention equipment, respectively, are also named in the
proposed class action.  
 BP and the other companies involved in the spill face more
than 250 lawsuits from individuals and businesses harmed by the
drifting oil. Most of these are proposed class actions brought
by fishing industry workers, property owners and tourism-related
businesses along the Gulf Coast.  
 The lawsuit is Bayona Corp. v. Transocean Ltd. et al.,
2:10-cv-01839, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Margaret Cronin Fisk  in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        