-- Obama Seeks to Turn U.S. Bank Overhaul Into G-20 Momentum on Capital Rule
-- Kristin Jensen
-- 2010-06-26T13:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/obama-seeks-to-turn-u-s-bank-overhaul-into-g-20-momentum-on-capital-rules.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  enters the
Group of 20 summit today with added momentum for his push to
increase bank capital standards: congressional action
overhauling U.S. financial regulations.  
 Obama arrived in Canada yesterday, the same day U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a compromise package of rules that would
toughen capital standards for U.S. financial companies. The deal
strengthens Obama’s hand as G-20 leaders meet in Toronto this
afternoon following a gathering of the Group of Eight in
Huntsville, Ontario, that will wrap up today.  
 “The progress that the U.S. has made will be important in
driving the world not just to agreements here but to conclusions
on financial regulations within the kind of timeframe we’ve been
looking at,” Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  told
reporters yesterday in Huntsville.  
 Canadian officials today said a consensus on taxing
financial institutions was unlikely to emerge from the summit.
Harper spokesman  Dimitri Soudas  said each country can take their
own approach on the issue while committing to economic stimulus
and deficit reduction.  
 ‘Downward Trajectory’  
 Harper “will encourage these countries to commit to half
their fiscal deficits by 2013 and put their debt-to-GDP ratios
in a downward path, a downward trajectory by 2016,” Soudas told
reporters in Huntsville.  
 G-20 leaders have been split over how best to implement new
standards, while agreeing on the general need for changes to
avoid a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis. They also face
opposition from banking officials such as  BNP Paribas SA  Chief
Executive Officer  Baudoin Prot , who warned that raising
requirements too quickly would risk choking off lending.  
 “We had to show leadership to deal with the excessive
risk-taking and the lack of adequate capital standards,” said
 Stuart Eizenstat , former deputy Treasury secretary under
President  Bill Clinton . “Toronto is not going to be able to
come up with 20 countries” with “one set of international
standards but it will get us pointed in that direction so that
at Seoul in November, there is really a good chance of an
agreement.”  
 Poverty Focus  
 The focus yesterday at the G-8 was on an initiative to
promote maternal and child health in poor countries. Harper late
yesterday announced that the group -- which includes Japan,
Canada, the U.K., France, the U.S., Italy, Germany and Russia --
had agreed to commit $5 billion over five years.  
 There was also talk of financial matters. In a preview of
what he plans to press in Toronto, Obama talked about bank
capital, an administration official said. And leaders including
Harper and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  congratulated Obama
on the financial legislation, said the official, who briefed
reporters on the condition of anonymity.  
 Still, European leaders deflect any conversations about
bank capital by bringing up regulation of tax havens, hedge
funds, credit rating companies and compensation, U.S. officials
said this month on condition of anonymity.  
 The G-20 pledged in Pittsburgh to strengthen capital
standards and find a way to make banks bear the costs of any
government assistance. Earlier this month in Busan, South Korea,
finance ministers affirmed these commitments and their support
for work by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.  
 Bank Levy Proposal  
 The U.S. has tried to broker a deal on bank levies that
would bridge the gap among G-20 members. Obama has proposed a
limited-duration levy that would recoup taxpayer costs of the
$700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, currently estimated
at about $105 billion. The U.K. wants a revenue-raising tax on
banks to help close its budget deficit, while Canada and Japan
have been wary of any action on those lines.  
 “We need to work with our global partners to ensure we
have adequate capital to avoid another meltdown,” said  Daniel Alpert , managing partner of New York-based Westwood Capital, in
an interview with Bloomberg Television. “European lenders have
nowhere near enough of a capital cushion.”  
 European leaders such as Merkel and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  have said any new capital requirements need a
lengthy transition period. Merkel didn’t mention capital
requirements yesterday, instead reiterating German support for
an international bank levy even as she acknowledged it was
unlikely to gain widespread backing.  
 ‘Firm Opinion’  
 “It’s our firm opinion that the financial markets have to
pay part of the cost of the crisis and take precautions,”
Merkel said. “We will lobby for this intensely once again, but
realistically we have to see that not only industrial countries
are skeptical, but also to some extent emerging nations.”  
 The U.S. oversight bill allows regulators to cap the amount
of leverage banks can take on and requires foreign banks
operating in the U.S. to hold as much capital as their domestic
competition. It doesn’t include a bank levy.  
 Banks stocks rallied yesterday, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Financials Index, whose 79 companies include JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., rising 2.8 percent.  
 Obama and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  are trying
to bridge differences between bank-tax supporters such as
England and Germany and those opposed, including Canada, China
and Brazil. The U.S. will push for a deal in which countries
agree on the principle of shielding taxpayers from bank rescues,
while allowing each nation to choose their own approach.  
 Russian Objections  
 Russia opposes proposals to impose a tax on banks, said
 Arkady Dvorkovich , an economic adviser to President  Dmitry Medvedev . Speaking to reporters yesterday, Dvorkovich said G-20
leaders were also unlikely to agree to tax financial
transactions.  
 “A one-size-fits-all approach may not be productive,”
said  Kazuo Kodama , a spokesman for Japan’s Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, at a press conference in Toronto. He declined to give
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s position on the bank tax.  
 Leaders will also be focused on the issue of sustaining the
global economic recovery while coping with rising debt burdens.
Obama is pushing the G-20 to focus first on economic growth,
rather than on budget cuts that might hinder demand. Nations
such as Germany and the U.K. are tightening budgets in an effort
to increase investor confidence after the debt crisis in Greece.  
 A European official, speaking to reporters on condition of
anonymity, said there’s a consensus within the G-8 that stimulus
withdrawal must be phased over time and start in 2011 except for
the most fragile economies. The official said the debate focuses
on how steep the deficit reductions should be.  
 Support Recovery  
 “You have to continue to support the recovery and at the
same time you have to continue to focus on markets’ concerns and
for your own interest you have to normalize the debt and the
deficit situation,” OECD Secretary General  Angel Gurria  said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television yesterday. “Europe is
putting its act together.”  
 U.S. Treasuries are having their best year since 1995,
returning 5 percent through June 24, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data, as investors seek alternatives
to Europe, where Greece and Spain had their credit ratings
downgraded amid growing budget deficits.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Toronto at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristin Jensen  in Toronto at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        