-- Obama Says Financial Regulation Bill to Help Boost Growth, Prevent Crises
-- Nicholas Johnston
-- 2010-06-26T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/obama-says-financial-regulation-bill-to-help-boost-growth-prevent-crises.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  today called
on Congress to take the final steps in overhauling U.S.
financial regulations, saying the new rules will help
strengthen the U.S. economy.  
 In his weekly address on the radio and Internet, Obama
said the legislation, which congressional negotiators agreed to
early yesterday morning, will help prevent future financial
crises.  
 “We’re still digging ourselves out of an economic crisis
that happened largely because there wasn’t strong enough
oversight on  Wall Street ,” Obama said before traveling to
Canada for a summit of the Group of 20 nations. “We can’t
build a strong economy in America over the long-run without
ending this status quo, and laying a new foundation for growth
and prosperity.”  
 Congress may as soon as next week approve the legislation
to protect consumers, curb risks, boost surveillance of
emerging threats to markets and give regulators more emergency
powers to avoid future taxpayer-funded bailouts of too-big-to-
fail firms.  
 Obama praised the legislation for representing “90
percent of what I proposed” at the start of the debate,
including limits on banks investing their own capital in hedge
funds or private equity funds.  
 Obama said the new rule will prevent banks backed by
federal insurance from engaging “in risky trades for their own
profit.”  
 The legislation creates a new agency overseeing consumer
financial products, which Obama said will prevent credit card
and mortgage companies from using hidden fees and penalties to
take advantage of consumers.  
 “Getting this far on Wall Street reform hasn’t been easy.
There are those who’ve fought tooth-and-nail to preserve the
status quo,” he said. “I urge Congress to take us over the
finish line and send me a reform bill I can sign into law.”  
 Republican Address  
 In the Republican address, Representative  Paul Ryan,  of
Wisconsin, criticized Democrats for not approving a budget this
year to rein in “out-of-control spending.”  
 “Talk about a recipe for disaster,” said Ryan, the top
Republican on the House Budget Committee. “Democrats are
offering no budget, no priorities, and no restraints.”  
 Ryan said Democrats are “missing a critical opportunity”
to take action against the  deficit  while providing fiscal
discipline that can create jobs and fuel economic growth.  
 “This is the time to make tough choices, not run from
them,” he said.  
 “We need to start reining in unnecessary spending now so
that we can boost the economy and work together to address our
nation’s long term fiscal challenges,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        