-- Obama to Set November Deadline to Finish South Korea Free-Trade Agreement
-- Hans Nichols
-- 2010-06-26T23:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/obama-to-set-november-deadline-to-finish-south-korea-free-trade-agreement.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  said he will
revive stalled free-trade talks with South Korea, with the goal
of finishing a deal during his November visit to Seoul and
submitting a reworked accord to Congress in the following
months.  
 Work to modify the trade agreement to meet objections from
some U.S. lawmakers will be done in a “methodical fashion”
before the Seoul trip, Obama said after meeting with South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  today in Toronto, where both
leaders are attending a Group of 20 summit.  
 “It is the right thing to do for our country, it is the
right thing to do for Korea,” Obama said. “It will strengthen
our commercial ties and it will create enormous potential
economic benefits to create jobs” in the U.S.  
 U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  will take the lead in
retooling the pact with his counterparts in South Korea,
America’s seventh-largest trading partner, this year. Kirk will
also be in charge of negotiations with Congress, where lawmakers
are demanding wider access for Chrysler Group LLC,  Ford Motor
Co . and  General Motors Co.  U.S. automotive-industry and unions
have lobbied for better access to Korean markets.  
 Completing a free-trade agreement with South Korea by
November, when the G-20 is next scheduled to meet in Seoul, is
central to the U.S. president’s goal of doubling exports over
the next five years to help American manufacturing and
agriculture. The effort would follow a call for more bilateral
trade agreements from the leaders of the Group of Eight nations,
who met earlier today in Huntsville, Ontario.  
 Stalled Agreements  
 While the U.S. has negotiated agreements with South Korea,
Colombia and Panama, Obama hasn’t sent the accords to Congress
for approval. Setting a deadline for the South Korea pact, and
announcing his intention to send it to lawmakers, distinguishes
it from the other two pending trade deals.  
 Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  said
Obama’s push for an accord “couldn’t come at a better time.”  
 “A Korean-U.S. free trade agreement should lead to
increased trade and investments, driving growth and job creation
to fuel our economic recovery,” Pandit said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 FedEx Corp.’s  Frederick Smith  also hailed Obama’s
announcement, saying it “will provide access to this important
market for American businesses and will increase job
opportunities for the employees of those businesses.”  
 Congressional Objections  
 The effort to amend the pact won’t lead to a reopening of
the original deal, signed in 2007, according to an
administration official who provided details of the plan on
condition of anonymity.  
 Rather, the U.S. will try to bridge gaps on a few issues,
including disputes on autos and beef, that have led several
lawmakers, including House Ways and Means Committee Chairman
 Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat, to signal their opposition.  
 Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley  welcomed the move and said
the president needed “to do the same with our stalled trade
agreements with Colombia and Panama.”  
 “I urge the president to commit to finish negotiations on
all three agreements by the end of the year, if not sooner,”
Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance
Committee, said in a statement.  
 Beef Barriers  
 Committee chairman Montana Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, said he agreed with Obama’s plan to move forward on
the accord, calling it “the most commercially-significant trade
agreement in more than a decade.”  
 He said he wanted the U.S. negotiators to eliminate the
“unscientific barriers Korea has erected against American
beef.”  
 The U.S. Chamber of Commerce  estimates  that failure to
enact the accord with the world’s 14th largest economy means the
loss of $35 billion in exports and 345,000 jobs. South Korea
signed a rival agreement with the European Union last year that
calls for 99 percent of commerce to be duty-free within five
years.  
 The Chamber today issued a statement saying the
administration will get its “full support” in pushing the
accord forward.  
 The agreement seeks to eliminate South Korea’s 7 percent
tariff on industrial goods and services, according to the
official, who said that their average tariff rate on
agricultural products is almost 9 times that of the average U.S.
tariff on agricultural products.  
 Commitment to Trade  
 Today’s announcement could also allay global concerns that
the Obama administration isn’t committed to free trade. Leaders
from the Group of 20 nations are meeting in Toronto today to
seek common ground on plans to assure investors that an economic
recovery is on track even as policy divides increasingly emerge.  
 Leaders from Europe, Asia and Latin America have been
skeptical that the U.S. would push for free trade agreements
ahead of the November mid-term elections, said  Charles Freeman ,
a fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
and former U.S. trade official.  
 On the agenda at the G-20 meetings, “trade is really
notable in its absence,” Freeman said.  
 The administration is seeking to balance its export goal
with a strategy to respond to complaints from lawmakers that the
trade agreements fail to align some labor, tax and environmental
policies in those nations with laws in the U.S.  
 The trade negotiations also have security implications and
are a sign of U.S. commitment to South Korea as a critical
strategic ally in Asia, the official said. Tensions in the
region remain elevated after an international panel last month
blamed North Korea for sinking the South Korean warship Cheonan
in March.  
 North Korea has denied involvement and threatened an “all-
out war” if it was subjected to any punitive actions for its
alleged role.  
 Obama today said the U.S. will fully support South Korea in
confronting the north over the ship sinking. “There has to be
consequences for such irresponsible behavior,” he said.  
 Resolving differences over the free-trade agreement is
important to solidify cooperation on other strategic challenges,
the official said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Toronto at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 Hans Nichols  in Toronto at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        