-- Paterson Restores Some Aid to New York Schools Before the Budget Deadline
-- Michael Quint
-- 2010-06-26T04:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/paterson-restores-some-aid-to-new-york-schools-before-the-budget-deadline.html

          
          
             New York  Governor  David Paterson 
presented lawmakers with an emergency spending bill that would
complete the missing pieces of the state’s overdue budget for
the fiscal year that started April 1 and close a $9.2 billion
deficit.  
 The plan calls for $1.22 billion of cuts in aid to local
school districts, the state’s largest expense, or about $300
million less than Paterson sought in his previous spending
proposal and closer to the amount sought by the Assembly, budget
director  Robert Megna  told reporters in Albany yesterday.  
 “We tried to design this plan to be as close as possible
to what the Legislature has been telling us in briefings,”
Megna said.  
 New taxes and other actions included in the plan will raise
about $1.2 billion. Including federal aid, the budget would
expand about 3 percent to $136 billion. Spending of state funds
would increase about 0.5 percent, Megna said.  
 Weekly emergency bills have kept the nation’s third-most
populous state running while the governor has shuffled funds
between accounts and delayed payments to schools and contractors
as cash dwindled. Lawmakers can’t modify the emergency bills,
only pass or reject them.  
 Paterson Meeting  
 Assembly Speaker  Sheldon Silver  of Manhattan and Senate
Democratic Leader  John Sampson  of Brooklyn traveled to New York
City to meet with Paterson.  
 “We didn’t come here to talk about individual issues,”
Silver said after emerging with Sampson from an hour-long
meeting at the governor’s midtown-Manhattan office. “We came
here to talk about the things we all want to get accomplished
and we are serious, the two of us and the governor, about
getting this done as quickly as we can early next week.”  
 In a statement earlier yesterday Silver said: “We are
committed to sparing our schools from the most devastating cuts,
ensuring that our higher-education system remains accessible to
all New Yorkers and providing much-needed property-tax relief.”  
 Silver told reporters that when lawmakers shrink the size
of state-aid cuts to local schools, it’s considered property-tax
relief because schools then don’t have to tax as much to collect
the funds they need. Paterson’s plan includes a cap on annual
property-tax increases by school districts and local governments
of 4 percent, or 120 percent of the inflation rate, whichever is
lower. Silver in the past has opposed similar plans to cap
property taxes levied by schools.  
 ‘Alternative Solutions’  
 “I am willing to listen to alternative solutions to New
York’s budget crisis, and will continue to listen to suggestions
from the Legislature over the next 48 hours,” Paterson said in
a statement. “Absent an agreement with the Legislature” his
bill is set to be voted on June 28, when lawmakers have to
choose between approving Paterson’s bills or a partial
government shutdown.  
 Since they have passed appropriations for about two-thirds
of the budget in earlier weekly emergency bills, a shutdown
wouldn’t be as dire as if it had occurred several weeks ago,
Megna said. Even so, he said a shutdown would create “chaos”
because of confusion about which workers are covered by
appropriations already approved.  
 The measure doesn’t include a tax on sweetened beverages,
which lawmakers didn’t favor. It does include an extra $200
million of tax revenue collected since April 1 above what the
state forecast.  
 Contingency Fund  
 The state plans to create a contingency fund with money cut
from various sources in case New York doesn’t receive $1.06
billion of additional federal aid for the Medicaid health-care
program, the budget director said.  
 Other items in Paterson’s plan include $150 million of
revenue from allowing wine sales in grocery stores.  
 About $100 million of revenue would come from reducing the
tax allowance for charitable contributions by residents earning
more than $10 million, to 25 percent from 50 percent. The impact
of that change on local charities would be limited, Megna said.
Most of the tax savings from donations by that group of about
3,500 people comes from their federal tax, which exceeds 30
percent, not the state’s 8.97 percent rate, he said. The New
York levy is scheduled to expire in 2012.  
 Another $100 million of savings is projected from lower-
than-expected interest rates on debt, the budget director said.
There is no borrowing in the governor’s plan to pay for
operating expenses, he said.  
 Cuts in aid to the state and city university systems would
total about $180 million. The package includes measures to give
them more flexibility to set their own tuition fees. Paterson’s
plan would cut $950 million from spending by state agencies,
whose budgets he can adjust without legislative approval.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        