-- Roche Diabetes Drug Tops Merck, Sanofi Products at Controlling Blood Sugar
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-06-26T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/roche-diabetes-drug-tops-merck-sanofi-products-at-controlling-blood-sugar.html

          
          
             Roche Holding AG  said its drug
 taspoglutide  helped lower blood sugar levels and promote weight
loss in patients with the most common form of diabetes.  
 The experimental medicine also controlled blood sugar in
more patients than Sanofi-Aventis SA’s Lantus, Eli Lilly & Co.
and Amylin Pharmaceutical Inc.’s Byetta, and Merck & Co.’s
Januvia medicines, according to study abstracts published on the
American Diabetes Assocation’s  website . The data is presented at
the ADA’s meeting in Orlando, Florida.  
 The new studies show that taspoglutide works to keep
diabetes in check, though Roche said last week it would delay
filing to regulators because too many patients suffered side
effects when taking the medicine.  
 “The efficacy so far for taspoglutide has been good, but
the rate of nausea will be the most important factor,”  Birgit Kulhoff , an analyst at Rahn & Bodmer in Zurich, said in a
telephone interview. “Taspoglutide will only be able to fulfil
its potential if its side effect profile is best in class, and
right now it doesn’t seem to be.”  
 Taspoglutide is a GLP-1 analogue, a newer class of diabetes
medicine that boosts insulin production after meals. The Swiss
company licensed the once-weekly shot in 2006 from France’s
 Ipsen SA . Two similar drugs, Byetta and Novo Nordisk A/S’s
Victoza, both given daily, are already on the market.  
 Lilly and Amylin have asked U.S. health regulators to
approve a weekly version of Byetta called Bydureon. The results
of clinical trials of Bydureon are also being presented today at
the ADA meeting. Additional studies of taspoglutide will be
presented tomorrow and June 28.  
 Lizard Spit  
 GLP-1 analogues mimic a hormone called incretin, which
stimulates the pancreas to produce insulin when blood sugar
levels rise too much. Diabetics can’t produce enough insulin to
absorb sugar, which collects in the blood rather than being
absorbed by muscle and fat cells. This accumulation can lead to
kidney failure, blindness and heart disease.  
 In a study comparing taspoglutide with Byetta, as many as
68 percent of  diabetes  patients given the Roche compound reached
their targeted reduction in levels of HbA1c, a measure of blood
sugar, compared with 52 percent of people on the Lilly and
Amylin drug. Weight loss and drop-out rates due to
gastrointestinal side effects were similar for the two
medicines.  
 In the clinical trial involving taspoglutide and Januvia,
the Roche compound was more effective in cutting blood sugar
levels, though its gastrointestinal side effects also resulted
in more patients dropping the drug. As many as 68 percent of
patients on taspoglutide reached their targeted reduction in
blood sugar levels, compared with 55 percent of people on
 Januvia , according to the abstract.  
 Taspoglutide also performed better against Lantus and in
both cases resulted in greater weight loss.  
 While the active ingredient in Byetta, introduced in 2005,
is derived from Gila monster lizard spit, Roche’s product is a
synthesized version of human GLP-1. The molecule is also
smaller, allowing for a needle that can be hidden in a
disposable pen-like device.  
 Roche has said it needs additional time to identify the
people more likely to be sensitive to taspoglutide and to remove
them from clinical trials. The company is trying to expand
beyond its best-selling cancer drugs and take a share of the $24
billion-a-year diabetes market. The number of people with the
condition is expected to more than double to 366 million by
2030, according to the World Health Organization.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        