-- Romania to Raise Value-Added Tax to Meet IMF-Imposed Budget Deficit Goal
-- Irina Savu
-- 2010-06-26T11:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/romania-to-raise-value-added-tax-to-meet-imf-imposed-budget-deficit-goal.html

          
          
             Romania will raise the value-added
tax to 24 percent from 19 percent to plug a budget hole after a
court threw out its plan to cut pensions by 15 percent and meet
an International Monetary Fund-mandated budget-deficit target.  
 “I am profoundly disappointed that we had to raise the VAT
today,” said Finance Minister  Sebastian Vladescu . “This is not
the best solution we could have had. It’s not what we wanted.”  
 The government, which is relying on a 20 billion-euro
($24.6 billion) loan from the European Union and the IMF to stay
afloat, will submit the changes to the lenders to avert a second
freeze on loan payments. The Constitutional Court yesterday said
the proposed 15 percent cut in pensions was illegal, though it
upheld a 25 percent reduction in wages. Parliament must now
amend the law, which had been approved by the IMF.  
 The government’s gross domestic product and inflation
forecasts will have to be adjusted because of the VAT increase,
which will probably bring between 3.5 billion lei ($1 billion)
to 4 billion lei in additional revenue to the state budget,
Vladescu said. The IMF and the government predict the economy
will contract as much as 0.5 percent this year, after shrinking
a record 7.1 percent in 2009, while the central bank forecasts
the year-end inflation will end at 3.7 percent.  
 Possible Inflation  
 The VAT increase may lead to 10 percent inflation if
correct measures aren’t taken to prevent it,  Adrian Vasilescu ,
an adviser to Central Bank Governor  Mugur Isarescu , told
Realitatea television station today.  
 The loan payments will probably be disrupted and that puts
the country’s credit rating at risk,  Moody’s Investors Service 
said after the court ruling. The government’s flat tax rate of
16 percent will remain unchanged.  
 It’s likely “that the IMF Board will postpone discussing
Romania’s review, and therefore the next tranche of the IMF loan
will also be delayed,” Moody’s analyst  Kenneth Orchard  said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “However, Moody’s perceives
this as a temporary issue and not a fundamental break.”  
 The Washington-based lender was due to meet on June 28 to
review Romania’s progress toward consolidating its budget and
decide on about 850 million euros in payments.  
 It postponed that meeting until June 30, said Prime
Minister  Emil Boc  today. He said he wants the tax increase
implemented as of July 1. He also said he expects Parliament to
pass his wage cuts next week.  
 First Freeze  
 The package was first frozen on Nov. 6 after political
infighting toppled the previous government. The IMF resumed
payments in February after Boc’s Cabinet passed a budget for
this year.  
 Moody’s, the only agency that rates Romania investment
grade at Baa3, with a stable outlook, said Boc’s government will
probably raise some taxes after the court ruled against the
pension cuts, which are equivalent to 1.3 percent of GDP.  
 “Although it is not Moody’s central scenario, the rating
would come under negative pressure if the government is unable
to reduce the budget deficit to 6.8 percent of gross domestic
product as per its revised agreement with the IMF and EU,”
Orchard said.  
 Opposition lawmakers appealed the austerity measures to the
Constitutional Court after the government survived a vote of no
confidence on June 15.  
 The opposition may ask for a further confidence vote next
week because “state employees will be severely affected by the
decision to cut wages,” Social Democrat leader Victor Ponta
said today in a speech on Realitatea television.  
 The austerity program has provoked a storm of protest, with
dozens of people trying to storm the presidential palace earlier
today.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        