-- Caribbean Storms Strengthen, May Head for Oil Spill
-- Dan Hart
-- 2010-06-27T21:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/tropical-storm-alex-threatens-mexico-may-spare-oil-spill-cleanup-efforts.html

          
          
             Alex, the first named storm of the
Atlantic hurricane season, weakened to a tropical depression as
it moved across the Yucatan Peninsula and into the Gulf of
Mexico today on a track that may keep it away from the largest
oil spill in U.S. history.  
 The storm was moving into the southwestern Gulf as of 4:30
p.m. Miami time, according to an advisory from the U.S. National
Hurricane Center, and was forecast to return to tropical storm
status tomorrow, regaining the strength it lost while over land.  
 The center’s official storm track predicts Alex will then
curve west toward Mexico City, rather than north and east into
the worst of the BP Plc oil spill, though forecasters warn it’s
too early to say for sure.  
 “Odds are it is not an issue for the cleanup,”  Tom Kines ,
a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc., said in a telephone
interview today. He said the storm is likely to intensify to a
Category 1 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-Simpson  scale 
before making its final landfall near Tampico on June 30.  
 Sustained winds were about 35 miles (56 kilometers) per
hour and it was moving west-northwest at 9 mph, the hurricane
center reported.  
 Track Monitored  
 Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist for Planalytics
Inc., a weather adviser to energy interests, said he recommends
preparing for “the worst case scenario.” He said it was likely
that Alex would head north in the Gulf, becoming a hurricane
June 29 and possibly a major hurricane by July 1.  
 “As of this morning, I grow more concerned Alex will shift
his gun sights further up the Texas coast and possibly into
southwestern Louisiana during the last half of this week,”
Rouiller said in an e-mail today. “This potential track would
send a much higher surge of sea water into the oil spill area,
along with possibly shutting down containment efforts that would
result in a resumption of free-flowing oil into the Gulf.”  
 The Gulf of Mexico measures about 500 miles from north to
south between the Mississippi River delta and the Yucatan, and
about 1,000 miles west to east, according to the  website  of the
Gulf of Mexico Foundation in Corpus Christi, Texas.  
 Government Watching  
 U.S. Coast Guard Admiral  Thad Allen , the government’s
national incident commander for the spill, said officials are
monitoring Alex carefully.  
 “We understand that (the storm) is moving westerly at this
point, and does not threaten the site,” Allen said yesterday
during a conference call. “But we know that these tracks can
change and are paying very close attention to it.”  
 About 6,000 vessels involved in cleanup, oil-recovery and
relief drilling efforts would begin evacuating when the National
Weather Service forecasts gale-force winds at the well site,
Allen said. BP said today it was evacuating non-essential
workers from three rigs in the western Gulf as a precaution.  
 Rainfall amounts of as much as 8 inches (20 centimeters)
may fall over the Yucatan, southern Mexico, northern Guatemala,
most of Honduras and Belize, the hurricane center said. As much
as 15 inches may fall in mountainous areas, potentially causing
“life-threatening flash floods and landslides.”  
 Some 1,500 tourists and residents were evacuated from
Belize’s resort island of San Pedro, Timrose Augustine, a
coordinator for the national emergency agency, said by
telephone. At least five landslides were reported in Guatemala,
washing out stretches of highway, according to David de Leon, a
spokesman for the national disaster agency.  
 Storms Named  
 A storm system receives a name when sustained winds reach
39 mph and becomes a hurricane when those winds hit 74 mph. The
Atlantic season, which runs from June 1 through Nov. 30, is
important to the energy and agriculture industries because of
the potential impact of storms on production areas.  
 Florida is the world’s largest orange grower after Brazil.
The Gulf is home to about 30 percent of U.S. oil and 12 percent
of its natural gas production. It also has seven of the 10
busiest U.S. ports, according to the Army Corps of Engineers.  
 Forecasters have been predicting an active season, which
runs from June 1 through Nov. 30. In May, the National
Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration forecast 14 to 23
named storms. The most active season on record was 2005, when 28
storms formed, including Hurricane Katrina, which caused  New
Orleans levees to fail , flooding the city and killing more than
1,800 people.  
 This month,  Colorado State University  researchers boosted
their forecast, calling for 18 named storms, 10 of them becoming
hurricanes. AccuWeather increased its outlook to 18 to 21 storms
from 16 to 18.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        