-- LSE, Seaspan Seek Shanghai Stock Listing on Investor Demand, Yuan Outlook
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-26T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/lse-seaspan-seek-shanghai-stock-listing-on-investor-demand-yuan-outlook.html

          
          
             London Stock Exchange Group Plc  and
Seaspan Corp., a Hong Kong shipper, may seek to list in
Shanghai, joining a growing number of foreign companies seeking
to take advantage of domestic demand and a stronger yuan.  
 The LSE, the operator of the London and Milan bourses,
wants to list in China’s commercial hub by the end of 2011,
Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  said at a financial forum
in Shanghai. Seaspan would be interested if the Shanghai Stock
Exchange opens to overseas companies, Chief Executive Officer
 Gerry Wang  said at the same forum.  
 HSBC Holdings Plc,   Standard Chartered Plc  and NYSE
Euronext have already said they want to list in Shanghai. The
increased interest in tapping China’s equity markets comes
after the central bank on June 19 signaled it will make the
exchange rate more flexible, spurring speculation the yuan will
strengthen.  
 “Having overseas companies list in Shanghai will allow
China’s investors more choices for their savings,” said Fred
Hu, formerly Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Greater China Chairman.  
 China’s  stock markets  are “immature” compared with
regional rivals, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report. The
Shanghai bourse has the lowest so-called free float among
benchmark equities exchanges in a dozen Asian-Pacific nations
and the smallest foreign ownership level.  
 Allowing foreign companies to sell shares in Shanghai
would help the city reach its goal of becoming a global
financial center by 2020. The Shanghai Stock Exchange is
drafting rules for a board on which foreign companies will be
allowed to sell shares, Chairman  Geng Liang  said in March.  
 Legal Hurdles  
 Shanghai has been contacted by foreign companies from the
finance, telecommunications, consumer goods and manufacturing
industries about selling shares in the city,  Fang Xinghai , head
of the city’s financial services office, said last month.  
 Still, the so-called international board faces legal and
jurisdictional issues,  Yao Gang,  vice chairman of the China
Securities Regulatory Commission, said today. The current
legislation doesn’t cover many issues related to overseas
companies issuing yuan-denominated stocks and bonds in China,
he said at the same conference.  
 China is also studying allowing domestic listings of Hong
Kong exchange-traded funds and the issuance of yuan-denominated
mutual funds in the city, he said.  
 “It is my deep hope and secret forecast that we as the
London Stock Exchange will be allowed to list here with our
friends the Shanghai Stock Exchange before the end of 2011,”
Rolet said.  
 Yuan Gain  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen 22 percent this
year, the world’s third-worst performer among the 93 indexes
tracked by Bloomberg, after the Chinese government raised
banks’ reserve requirements to the highest level in at least
three years and took steps to curb soaring property prices.  
 The yuan may appreciate 3 percent in 2010, while China’s
gross domestic product will grow at 10.2 percent this year,
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said June 24, predicting a 17
percent gain for equities in the second half of the year.  
 Economic growth in China accelerated to 11.9 percent in
the first quarter after the government unleashed a record $1.4
trillion of lending to combat the effects of the global
financial crisis.  
 For Related News and Information:
Most-read stories on China: MNI CHINA 1W <GO>
Most-read China economy stories: TNI CHECO MOSTREAD <GO>
For top economic news: TOP ECO <GO>
For top China news: TOP CHINA <GO>  
          
          


  


        