-- Nadal, Serena Williams, Sharapova Advance to Fourth Round at Wimbledon
-- Danielle Rossingh
-- 2010-06-26T23:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/serena-williams-beats-dominika-cibulkova-to-reach-4th-round-at-wimbledon.html

          
          
             Rafael Nadal  won his second straight
five-set match yesterday at Wimbledon, as  Serena Williams  and
 Maria Sharapova  set up a meeting of former champions.  
 Nadal, the 2008 Wimbledon winner, defeated the 41st-ranked
Philipp Pertzschner of Germany 6-4, 4-6, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2, 6-3 in
a third-round match on Centre Court.  
 “The match was very difficult for me,” Nadal, the No. 2
seed, said in an interview on the British Broadcasting Corp.
“The service of Philipp was unbelievable.”  
 Today is the traditional rest day at the All England Club.
Play resumes tomorrow with fourth-round action.  
 No. 4 seed  Andy Murray  had no problems with  Gilles Simon ,
beating the Frenchman 6-1, 6-4, 6-4. Murray is trying to become
the first British man since 1936 to win Wimbledon.  
 Williams beat Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia 6-0, 7-5 and
Sharapova defeated Barbora Zahlavova Strycova of the Czech
Republic, 7-5, 6-3.  
 “It’s obviously really intense,” Williams said at a news
conference, when asked about Sharapova, who beat her in the 2004
final in straight sets. “She really knows my game. I think she
really studies it. I pretty much know her game. So I don’t think
much has changed.”  
 Grass Major  
 Williams, 28, is seeking her fourth title at the only major
played on grass. She won her 12th Grand Slam championship at the
start of the year at the Australian Open, tying the record of
her mentor  Billie Jean King .  
 Nadal had the trainer look at his left arm in the third set
and took a medical time-out for his right knee at 2-1 in the
fourth set. After receiving treatment, he immediately broke
Petzschner’s serve.  
 Playing his third consecutive five-set match, Petzschner
seemed worn out after that. He dropped the fourth set on a
double fault and also took a medical time-out because of his
left thigh.  
 Nadal reacted angrily at 2-2 in the fifth set, after he got
a warning from the umpire for coaching from his private box.
He’s been coached by Toni Nadal, his uncle, since he was four
years old.  
 The Spaniard broke for a 5-3 lead in the final set, and
converted his first match point as Petzschner missed a backhand
return.  
 Knee Problem  
 Nadal missed Wimbledon last year with a knee injury. He
told reporters after the match that his knee was bothering him
today.  
 “I am a little bit scared about the knee,” Nadal said,
adding he had the same problem at tournaments earlier this year
in Monte Carlo and Miami. “After Monte Carlo, I didn’t play
Barcelona because I had to do a treatment, new treatment.”  
 Petzschner, 26, had never played a world No. 1 player
before today. He made his first semifinal on grass at a warmup
in Germany two weeks ago, losing to Federer.  
 In the men’s draw, French Open finalist  Robin Soderling  of
Sweden, the No. 6 seed, and 10th seed Jo-Wilfred Tsonga of
France won in straight sets.  David Ferrer , the No. 9 seed from
Spain, advanced in five sets against  Jeremy Chardy  of France.  
 In other women’s matches, U.S. Open finalist and third-
seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark, No. 7  Agnieszka Radwanska 
of Poland and Li Na, the No. 9 seed from China, all advanced in
straight sets.  
 Flavia Pennetta  of Italy, the No. 10 seed, lost to  Klara Zakopalova  of the Czech Republic, while No. 14 Victoria Azarenka
of Belarus was beaten by unseeded Czech  Petra Kvitova .  
 $15,000 Fine  
 Wimbledon officials yesterday fined men’s No. 31 seed
 Victor Hanescu  of Romania $15,000 for “unsportsmanlike
conduct” and for “not using best efforts,” at the conclusion
of his match against Daniel Brands the day before.  
 Hanescu quit the match in the fifth set and the All England
Club issued a statement last night saying the Romanian had
retired with a leg injury. He was cited by the chair umpire in
that set for swearing and spitting toward the crowd, the
Associated Press reported. Police also arrested four people on
Court 18 during the match.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Rossingh  at Wimbledon through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        