-- South African King Hopes for English Soccer World Cup Success
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-06-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/south-african-king-molotlegi-hopes-for-english-success-at-soccer-world-cup.html

          
          
             When England contests its first
knock-out game at soccer’s World Cup, one man will add his name
to the thousands of fans cheering them on:  King Leruo Molotlegi .  
 The leader of the  Royal Bafokeng Nation , a community of
300,000 Setswana people, has invested as much as 600 million
rand ($79 million) in World Cup projects, building a high-
altitude training center to attract one of the world’s most
high-profile soccer teams to Phokeng, a dusty village in the
heart of the platinum-mining belt in northern South Africa.  
 England face arch-rival and three-time World Cup winner
Germany at 4 p.m. local time today.  
 “From a strictly business point of view, from a marketing
point of view, if they went to the finals and won, that’d be
good for us,” the king said in an interview, two days before
England’s 1-0 victory over Slovenia, which sealed its spot in 
the round of 16. Failure to win would have eliminated England
at the opening group stage for the first time since 1958.  
 The Royal Bafokeng Nation started building its fortune in
the 1860s, when one of Molotlegi’s forefathers sent his men to
work in South Africa’s diamond mines, the proceeds of which they
used to buy their native land. Fortune had it that the world’s
largest platinum seams crossed the land.  
 The Bafokeng have since transformed their wealth into a 30-
billion-rand holding, and now own stakes in companies including
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd.  and  Vodacom Group Ltd.   
 Hosting six World Cup games and the English team will help
transform the Bafokeng from a small nation into a global brand,
said Molotlegi.  
 Royal Bafokeng Stadium  
 The 42-year-old monarch now plans to attract other sports
teams to his kingdom, which is about two hours drive west of
 Johannesburg .  
 A trained architect, the so-called  kgosi  helped design the
38,646-seater Royal Bafokeng Stadium, the only one of ten venues
used at the tournament which is owned by a community. The
benefits to the community are roads, schools, electricity and
health services.  
 “With the media focusing on England, the word is out
there,” said Molotlegi, sitting in a meeting-room kitted out
with six flat-screens televisions, perched on a hill above
Phokeng. “The word I’m getting from football federations,
especially in Europe, is that there’s nothing like it in the
world at the moment.”  
 Molotlegi approached the English national team and flew
out the Football Association’s international committee Chairman
 Dave Richards  to make his pitch.  
 Fabio Capello  
 It took three visits by England coach  Fabio Capello  to
convince the Italian they could provide a suitably high-quality
training pitch. The sports campus boasts eleven sports fields
and a state-of-the-art gym.  
 “We are delighted with the facilities, they’re
exceptional,” said  Adrian Bevington , the Football Association’s
communications director.  
 The king met England striker  Wayne Rooney , captain Steven
Gerrard and injured midfielder  David Beckham , brought to South
Africa to motivate the team, when the players arrived on June 3.  
 England struggled to a 1-1 draw at the Royal Bafokeng
Stadium in its opening game with the U.S., before being jeered
by its own supporters after a 0-0 draw with Algeria in Cape Town
six days later. Only a 1-0 victory against Slovenia guaranteed
England’s place in the knock-out stages.  
 “What I’d like to see is England play a bit harder, I
think they’ve been a bit soft,” the king said. “Arguably
they’re the best team in this World Cup.”  
 ‘Berlin Wall’  
 The recriminations about the two poor opening performances
led former captain John Terry to suggest the team may be bored
at the five-star complex they’re confined to on non-match days.  
 “You must ask John Terry about that,” he said. “I think
there’s more than enough to do.”  
 If England lose their match against Germany, “we’re going
to cry into our tea-cups,” said  Niall Carroll , chief executive
officer of Royal Bafokeng Holdings Ltd., the kingdom’s
investment arm.  
 If England wins the World Cup, the kingdom may sell the
sports campus off “brick by brick like the Berlin wall,” he
said with a smile. “It’d replace our platinum revenue as our
annuity income for the next 100 years.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Johannesburg at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        