-- Walter Shorenstein, Billionaire Real-Estate Owner, Dies at 95
-- Anne Ferrer
-- 2010-06-26T01:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/walter-shorenstein-billionaire-real-estate-owner-dies-at-95-at-his-home.html

          
          
             Walter Shorenstein , founder of the
closely held real-estate company that at various times has owned
the Bank of America  skyscraper  in San Francisco, the John
Hancock Center in Chicago and the Washington Harbour complex in
the U.S. capital, has died. He was 95.  
 Shorenstein died yesterday of natural causes at his home,
Shorenstein Co. said today in a statement.  
 Under Shorenstein’s leadership from 1960 to 1995, the
company that now bears his name expanded from a regional
building, leasing and management corporation in San Francisco to
a leading owner and operator of office buildings nationwide.  
 Shorenstein Co.  owns more than 7 million square feet
(650,321 square meters) of office space in downtown San
Francisco -- the Los Angeles Times said in 1985 that Shorenstein
“has done more to change San Francisco’s skyline than anyone
else” -- and more than 25 million square feet nationwide.  
 Under Shorenstein’s son, Doug, the company in more recent
years purchased high-profile properties, including the First
Union Financial Center (renamed the  Wachovia Financial Center )
in Miami and the  Starrett-Lehigh Building  in New York.  
 Forbes magazine  estimated  the net worth of Shorenstein and
his family to be $1 billion in March 2009.  
 “I started out with $1,000 and used to think that if
anyone could ever earn a million dollars, that’s all you could
want,” Shorenstein said, according to a 1985 story in the Los
Angeles Times. “But it’s like peddling a bike: Once you get
going, it’s hard to stop.”  
 Investing Style  
 His simple investing style enabled his firm to weather
economic declines that threatened other real-estate companies.
In a contribution to an oral-history project at the University
of California, Berkeley, in 2009, he  said :  
 “Just because a new investment fad sweeps through certain
crowds, that doesn’t necessarily mean it’s a smart place to put
your money. If terms like counterparty risk, mark-to-market
accounting, and capital-structure arbitrage aren’t part of your
everyday conversation, then don’t risk your future on something
you don’t understand.”  
 A major promoter of the Democratic Party, Shorenstein
advised Presidents  Lyndon Johnson  and  Jimmy Carter  and played a
central role in bringing the 1984 Democratic National Convention
to San Francisco.  
 He also joined the group of investors who accumulated $100
million to buy Major League Baseball’s San Francisco Giants in
1992, keeping the franchise from being sold and moved to St.
Petersburg, Florida.  
 Education Center  
 With his wife, Shorenstein founded the  Joan Shorenstein
Center  on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government. They did so in honor
of their daughter, Joan, a journalist at the Washington Post and
CBS News, who died in 1985 after a 10-year battle with cancer.  
 Shorenstein also sponsored programs at Stanford
University’s Asia-Pacific Research Center and the Institute of
East Asian Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.  
 Walter Herbert Shorenstein was born on Feb. 23, 1915, in
Glen Cove, New York, the son of a haberdasher. He attended the
University of Pennsylvania before cutting short his
undergraduate studies to fight in World War II as a major in the
U.S. Army Air Corps.  
 After the war, Shorenstein settled in California. “I
arrived in San Francisco with no job, a pregnant wife and less
than $1,000 to my name,” he told the oral-history project.  
 Company Purchase  
 Shorenstein began work in commercial real estate in 1946
with the brokerage firm Milton Meyer & Co. He became a partner
in 1951 and, in 1960, bought the company and became its
president. He kept the name until 1989 when it became
Shorenstein Co.  
 He built and managed office buildings with funding from
four major sources -- Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co.,
International Business Machines Corp., Bechtel Group Inc. and
MetLife Inc. -- according to Steve Bergsman’s book “ Maverick
Real Estate Investing ” (2004).  
 Doug Shorenstein  joined his father’s business in 1983 and
became chairman and chief executive officer in 1995. Under his
guidance, the firm has gathered funds from “contracyclical”
sources, including university endowments, foundations and
wealthy investors, Bergsman wrote. The company’s ninth closed-
end fund began in 2007 and had committed capital of more than $2
billion as of June 2009, according to the company  website .  
 Shorenstein met his future wife, Phyllis, while stationed
at Travis Air Force Base in California in the 1940s. She died in
1994. The couple “consistently helped make this city a better
place for all of us,” then-San Francisco Mayor  Frank Jordan 
said upon her death.  
 Besides Joan and Doug, they had a daughter, Carole
Shorenstein Hays, a Broadway  producer .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Arnold  in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        