-- Wen Urges `Harmonious Employment Relations', Higher Salaries for Workers
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-06-26T17:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/wen-urges-harmonious-employment-relations-higher-salaries-for-workers.html

          
          
             Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  urged
local governments and companies to take “effective measures”
to address labor-cost issues and to build “harmonious
employment relations,” China Central Television reported.  
 Companies “should gradually raise employees’ incomes and
at the same time that should happen in accordance with increases
in productivity,” Wen was quoted as saying in the TV report.
Wen made the comments during a meeting with local government
officials in eastern China today, CCTV said.  
 Widening labor unrest has forced auto parts makers to raise
wages in China, increasing production costs for Toyota Motor
Corp. and  Honda Motor Co.  in a nation that accounted for about a
fourth of Toyota’s vehicle sales last year. Labor costs will
probably increase to 30 percent of China’s  gross domestic
product  in the next decade from 15 percent now, Morgan Stanley
estimated this month.  
 Wen ordered intensified mentoring of China’s economic
operations and told officials to “deal with new issues, new
problems with skill and firmly have the initiative in steering
the economy,” CCTV reported.  
 Toyota, the world’s largest carmaker, aims to restart a
plant in China on June 28 after Denso Corp., Japan’s biggest
auto parts maker, resumed operations at a factory that had been
shut by a strike, according to a Tokyo-based spokesman
yesterday.  
 The car parts plant owned by Denso in China’s Guangdong
province will give workers a pay-rise of 800 yuan ($117) a
month, after the strike halted production for three days, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing a
representative of the plant workers.  
 Foxconn Technology Group, the contract maker of Apple
Inc.’s iPhone, will hire counselors and double pay in Shenzhen,
where it employs almost 450,000 people, after suicides committed
by its workers prompted Apple and other clients including Dell
Inc. to probe work conditions, Foxconn said earlier this month.  
 -- Wang Ying . Editor:  Dick Schumacher .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        