-- Won Leads Drop in Asian Currencies as Europe's Crisis Outweighs Yuan Move
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-06-26T01:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/won-leads-drop-in-asian-currencies-as-europe-s-crisis-outweighs-yuan-move.html

          
          
             Asian currencies dropped this week,
led by South Korea’s won, as concern Europe’s debt crisis will
worsen outweighed the benefits to the region of China’s decision
to end the yuan’s two-year peg.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index  of regional shares fell 0.5
percent in the week after the cost of protecting Greek debt from
default climbed to a record. The won dropped the most in almost
three weeks yesterday as overseas investors sold more Korean
shares than they bought.  
 “The markets are reacting to the equities’ losses,” said
 Suresh Kumar Ramanathan , a currency strategist at CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “This is an indication of
the risk-aversion trade. The Korean won came off quite a lot and
that triggered the move in some Asian currencies lower.”  
 The won declined 1 percent this week to close at 1,215.19
in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Singapore
dollar fell 0.6 percent in the past five days to S$1.3940, the
Indian rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 46.2865 and the peso
dropped 1.2 percent to 46.445 per dollar.  
 The yuan rose the most in Asia this week, helping limit
declines in most currencies and lifting the Indonesian rupiah.
China, including Hong Kong, is the biggest export market for
economies such as Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, South
Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.  
 Budget Deficit  
 “The won is reacting to the risk aversion we saw
overnight,” said  Moh Siong Sim , a Singapore-based foreign-
exchange strategist for Bank of Singapore Ltd.  
 The Philippine peso had its worst week since May as the
government failed in its bid to sell debt after announcing that
the budget deficit breached a ceiling.  
 The government sold just 2 percent of 10-year bonds it
planned to sell over the counter on June 23, a day after saying
the deficit in the five months ended May exceeded the cap for
the first half. The government has just spent 42 percent of its
annual budget allocation and will have to continue “stimulus
spending,” Budget Undersecretary Laura Pascua said this week.  
 “The main concern is the deficit and uncertainty on how
the incoming administration will address it,” said  Speedy Delfino , a fixed-income trader at Bank of Commerce in Manila.
“Comments on the need for stimulus spending also made the
market wary because of its implication for the deficit.”  
 Yuan Policy  
 The yuan gained 0.5 percent in the past five days, the most
since December 2008. The central bank fixed the reference rate
at 6.7896 per dollar yesterday, 0.3 percent higher than on June
24. Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.3 percent this week to 9,068,
Taiwan’s dollar was little changed at NT$32.180, the Thai baht
was steady at 32.41 and the Malaysian ringgit was little changed
at 3.2515 per dollar.  
 The People’s Bank of China said on June 19 it would end a
two-year currency peg and allow “two-way movement” in the
yuan. Taiwan’s central bank on June 24 raised its benchmark rate
for the first time since 2008, signaling confidence in the
global economic recovery.  
 The rupiah climbed after the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged
to keep borrowing costs low in the world’s largest economy,
boosting the appeal of higher-yielding assets.  
 The U.S. central bank on June 23 left its benchmark rate
unchanged in a range of zero to 0.25 percent. That compares with
Bank Indonesia’s policy rate of 6.5 percent. Benchmark 10-year
debt in the U.S. yields 3.11 percent, while similar-dated
Indonesian bonds pay 8.01 percent.  
 ‘Most Resilient’  
 “Among Asian currencies, the rupiah should be the most
resilient as the authorities have done an excellent job in
capping the dollar-rupiah’s upside to guard against inflation,”
said  Tim Condon , Singapore-based chief Asia economist for ING
Groep NV. “This makes the fixed-income market an attractive
carry trade.”  
 Overseas investors owned 151.7 trillion rupiah ($16.7
billion) of Indonesian debt as of June 18, about 40 percent more
than at the end of last year, according to the finance
ministry’s website.  
 Foreign investors bought $71 million more of Indonesian
shares than they sold this week through June 24, boosting net
purchases for this year to $801 million.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lilian Karunungan  in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          June 25 (Bloomberg) -- Tim Adams, a former U.S. Treasury undersecretary and now managing director of the Lindsey Group, a Fairfax, Virginia-based investment consulting company, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the shift in China's currency policy and its implications for the nation's relations with the U.S. 
     Adams, speaking from Washington, also discusses the outlook for the Group of 20 summit in Toronto, U.K.'s budget, and U.S. and European fiscal policies. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
