-- Yen Strengthens for Third Week Versus Dollar as Economic Recovery Sputters
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-06-26T04:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/yen-strengthens-for-third-week-versus-dollar-as-economic-recovery-sputters.html

          
          
             The yen rose for a third week
against the dollar, its longest stretch of gains since January,
as U.S. economic data signaling the recovery is sputtering
boosted demand for currencies less likely to return a loss.  
 Japan’s currency advanced against all 16 of its most active
counterparts, while those of commodity exporters including
Canada and Norway were among the worst performers amid
speculation the Group of 20 nations will fail to agree this
weekend on how to tackle Europe’s debt crisis. Reports next week
may show U.S. payrolls shrank and manufacturing growth slowed.  
 “The yen rally can be described as a safe-haven play,”
said  Hidetoshi Yanagihara , a currency trader in New York at
Mizuho Corporate Bank. “The U.S. economy is not performing
well. Growth in the second quarter may have slowed more than
people had thought, and that’s what the market is trying to
price in.”  
 The yen gained 1.7 percent to 89.23 per dollar, from 90.71
yen on June 18, and appreciated 1.8 percent to 110.41 per euro,
from 112.40. The euro slipped 0.2 percent to $1.2369, from
$1.2388 last week. Australia’s higher-yielding dollar slid 1.4
percent to 78.02 yen, its first decline in three weeks.  
 Implied volatility of the yen’s value against the dollar, a
measure of price swings anticipated by options traders over the
next month, was 11.52 percent yesterday, 1.6 percentage points
lower than the comparable 13.12 percent value for euro-dollar.
Volatility in the Swiss franc versus the dollar was the lowest
among the Group of 10 currencies at 10.59 percent. The franc was
the third-best performer this week among major currencies,
trailing sterling.  
 G-20 Summit  
 G-20 leaders meet in Toronto today and tomorrow to discuss
policies aimed at addressing Europe’s crisis, spurring global
growth and overhauling financial regulation. Germany and the
U.S. have been at odds over whether debt reduction or economic
stimulus should take precedence, with Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
this week saying Europe’s debt levels have to be reduced because
they are one of the main causes of the crisis.  
 “Coming into the G-20, there are two different schools of
thought,” said  Jonathan Gencher , director of foreign-exchange
sales at Bank of Montreal in Toronto. “You have the U.S., who
is still adamant about spending and stimulus, while you have the
Europeans, who are talking about austerity. There’s probably
going to be nothing achieved.”  
 Slower Growth  
 U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 2.7 percent annual
rate in the first quarter, Commerce Department data showed
yesterday, below the 3 percent estimate issued last month and
less than the median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. It reflected a smaller gain in consumer spending and a
bigger trading gap.  
 Reports this week showed U.S. new-home sales dropped to a
record low annual pace of 300,000 in May, from 446,000 a month
earlier, and sales of existing homes unexpectedly fell,
decreasing 2.2 percent.  
 The Federal Reserve said in a policy statement on June 23
that the pace of the economic recovery is “likely to be
moderate for a time.” Financial conditions have become “less
supportive of economic growth on balance, largely reflecting
developments abroad,” it said.  
 The central bank held the target  interest rate  for
overnight lending between banks at a record low range of zero to
0.25 percent, where it has been since December 2008 to help spur
the economy. It reiterated it intends to keep the rate low for
an “extended period.”  
 Job Losses  
 U.S. nonfarm payrolls dropped in June by 110,000 jobs,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 51
economists. The Labor Department reports the data July 2.
Business activity in the U.S. expanded at a slower pace,
slipping to an index reading of 59 from 59.7 in May, a report on
June 30 from the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.
may show, according to another survey.  
 The  Swiss franc  yesterday touched the strongest level
against the euro since the single currency’s debut after the
central bank said the risk of deflation has largely disappeared.
The franc reached 1.3457 per euro.  
 Sterling gained for a third week against the dollar amid
optimism an emergency budget announced June 22 by Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  would cut the nation’s deficit and
enable Britain to keep its top credit rating. The pound rose 1.6
percent to $1.5063.  
 The yuan had its biggest weekly gain since December 2008,
rising 0.5 percent to 6.7921 per dollar, after the People’s Bank
of China said June 19 it would end a two-year peg to the dollar.  
 President  Barack Obama  said on June 24 in Washington it’s
too soon to say whether China’s move will be sufficient to
rebalance the world economy. He and Chinese President  Hu Jintao 
are scheduled to meet at the G-20 summit.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Oliver Biggadike  in New York at 
 obiggadike@bloomberg.net ;
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        