-- Chinese Exports May Suffer on Yuan Flexibility, Debt Crisis, Official Says
-- Irene Shen
-- 2010-06-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-06-26/yuan-flexibility-to-reduce-china-s-exports-commerce-official-says-at-g-20.html

          
          
             China’s pledge for a more flexible
yuan will slow the nation’s exports this year, adding to
difficulties that include the European debt crisis and rising
costs, a Chinese government official said.  
 “I’m not optimistic about the exports this year,” Yu
Jianhua, a Ministry of Commerce director general, told reporters
at the Group of 20 meetings in Toronto yesterday.
“It’s essential for exporters to cut cost and keep their share
in the world trade market.”  
 China indicated on June 19 that it was scrapping the yuan’s
two-year-old peg to the dollar and reiterated the aim at a media
briefing yesterday. The move may have muted criticism from U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and other world leaders ahead of the G-20
talks.  
 Obama yesterday told Chinese leader  Hu Jintao  that the U.S.
welcomed China’s move to allow greater flexibility of its
currency and seeks a greater balance on trade, administration
officials said.  
 Obama told Hu the decision was an important step in
rebalancing the global economy and that “implementation of it
will be very important,”  Jeff Bader , director of Asian affairs
on Obama’s National Security Council, said in a briefing after
the two leaders met.  
 Raise Consumption  
 China, the world’s largest exporter, is aiming to raise
consumption and reduce reliance on exports. Measures will
include a structural tax cut of about 500 billion yuan ($73.6
billion) this year and more subsidies to low-income families,
according to Ministry of Finance director general  Zheng Xiaosong .  
 “Our major task is to adjust the economic structure, and
the exchange rate regime reform is in line with this strategic
goal,” Ma Xin, a director at the National Development and
Reform Commission, said yesterday.  
 The exchange rate reform was, and should be, determined by
China’s economic fundamentals, not foreign pressure, Ma said.  
 China’s decision will also help it control inflation and
avoid asset price bubbles, said  Zhang Tao , head of the
international department at China’s central bank.  
 He told reporters in Toronto that regime reform was
“welcomed by the world” and he hasn’t seen any change in
pressure from the G-20 countries on the issue.  
 In a statement released earlier from the Group of Eight
meeting that concluded yesterday in Huntsville, Ontario, leaders
didn’t mention the Chinese currency.  
 ‘Dramatic Drop’  
 China’s economic growth accelerated to 11.9 percent in the
first quarter, the fastest pace in almost three years. The
nation is poised to surpass Japan this year as the world’s
second-largest economy, after overtaking the U.S. as the biggest
auto market and Germany as the biggest exporter in 2009.  
 The nation’s trade surplus has posted a “dramatic drop”
after the financial crisis, according to Yu. The trade surplus
fell to $35.4 billion in the first five months of 2010, compared
with $78 billion in the same period in 2008, Yu said.  
 Hu yesterday said China is seeking to “strengthen the
communication and coordination” with the U.S. and that there
has been “real progress” toward better ties. Obama said China
and the U.S. have been working to build a relationship of
“trust and mutual confidence” in dealing with the economy and
security issues.  
 Obama also invited Hu to the U.S. for a state visit. No
date has been set.  
 Some lawmakers in the U.S. Congress are pressing for
tougher actions to force China to revalue the yuan, including
letting U.S. companies seek tariffs on Chinese  imports .  
 The U.S.  trade deficit  with China reached $71 billion for
the first four months of the year, up 5.7 percent from the same
period of 2009, according to U.S. government data.  
 The yuan gained 0.5 percent this week, the most since
December 2008. China’s central bank fixed the reference rate at
6.7896 per dollar on Friday, 0.3 percent stronger than the day
before and 0.15 percent higher than the close in the spot market.
The yuan is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on either side of the
daily fixing.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Irene Shen  in Toronto at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       China Expects Yuan Reform to Impact Exports  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Chinese President Hu Jintao was told that the U.S. welcomed China's move to allow greater flexibility of its currency. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Chinese President Hu Jintao was told that the U.S. welcomed China's move to allow greater flexibility of its currency. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
