-- BAE, Carlyle bid for UK nuclear dockyard: source
-- 
-- Tue Mar 20, 2007 7:56am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/03/20/businesspro-bae-devonport-carlyle-dc-idUSL2073270120070320

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - BAE Systems Plc BA.L and The Carlyle 
Group CYL.UL have submitted indicative bids for Devonport, 
the dockyard where Britain refuels its nuclear-powered 
submarines, a source familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. 


  "Indicative bids have gone in," said the source, who 
declined to be identified.  Sources said the business, Devonport Management Ltd (DML), 
is expected to fetch about 200 million pounds ($389 million), 
though some estimates have put the price at twice that amount.  U.S. private equity firm Carlyle and BAE, Europe's biggest 
defense company, declined to comment on whether they had bid or 
on speculation that they might join forces to buy DML.  "There are opportunities for consolidation of the UK 
submarine industry ... DML is part of that opportunity and BAE 
Systems continues to consider a number of options," BAE 
spokeswoman Lisa Hillary-Tee said.  U.S. firm General Dynamics ( GD.N ) and UK support services 
firm Babcock International Plc ( BAB.L ) were also expected to 
take an interest in the business. General Dynamics declined to 
comment. Babcock was not available for immediate comment.  The process is at an early stage and due diligence would 
take some months to complete, industry sources said. UBS is 
running the sale.  DML's current top shareholder, Halliburton ( HAL.N ) unit KBR 
( KBR.N ), is under pressure to sell its 51-percent stake in the 
business after falling foul of Britain's Ministry of Defense.  Its other two shareholders are Balfour Beatty BBY.L and 
Weir Group ( WEIR.L ) with equal 24.5-percent stakes.  The ministry was angered last year when KBR as part owner 
of a key British defense asset disregarded UK requests for 
financial information ahead of the company's initial public 
offering.  The incident "significantly undermined our confidence" 
Britain's minister for defense procurement, Paul Drayson, said 
last November.  The ministry's Defense Industrial Strategy published in 
late 2005 called on defense firms to consolidate in the 
submarine and warship sectors.  BAE Systems owns Barrow, Britain's only submarine-building 
facility, while Babcock has the Faslane submarine base and 
Rosyth naval dockyard.  Devonport is the largest marine support complex in western 
Europe, with 11 dry docks, five outfitting basins and five 
kilometers of deepwater berths.  (Additional reporting by  Mathieu Robbins  and  Jason Neely )