-- Medicare Program Pays Insurers Too Much, Expert Says
-- Avram Goldstein
-- 2008-01-30T21:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-30/medicare-program-pays-insurers-too-much-expert-says-update2-.html

          
          
             An $86 billion-a-year Medicare-
sponsored program that pays private insurers to provide health
care is growing rapidly and has failed to keep its cost-saving
promise, experts told Congress.  
 The government pays insurers in the Medicare Advantage
program 13 percent more than the same care would cost the
government directly, up from 12 percent a year ago, said  Mark
Miller , executive director of the  Medicare Payment Advisory
Commission . He testified today to the Senate Finance Committee.  
 Medicare Advantage originally paid health insurers 95
percent of Medicare costs. Since premiums were boosted in 2003,
insurance companies have recruited 9.1 million Americans. The
fastest-growing enrollment is in a subset called private fee-
for-service plans. Those cost taxpayers 17 percent more than the
U.S. would pay for the same 1.7 million people, Miller said.  
 ``This product gives the private sector a bad name,'' said
Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat on the committee. The
private fee-for-service market is like the American Wild West
``before the marshals showed up,'' he said.  
 Karen Ignagni , president of the Washington-based insurance
trade group America's Health Insurance Plans, said the program
works well.  
 ``We continue to demonstrate the value of these programs
from the beneficiaries' perspectives,'' she said in a telephone
interview. Any suggestion that elderly people make poor choices
in selecting a plan is ``disrespectful'' to the elderly, she
said.  
 Cuts Failed  
 Democrats in Congress tried last year to trim Medicare
Advantage so insurers wouldn't be paid more than what the
government would spend. That effort failed after Ignagni
orchestrated a lobbying campaign by Medicare Advantage members
and President  George W. Bush  threatened a veto.  
 The next attempt to cut the program's payments may come
before July, when Medicare doctor fees are scheduled to be
reduced. Some critics want to cut the Medicare Advantage program
and use the savings to eliminate the doctor-fee rollback.  
 Another hearing will be scheduled soon to discuss the Bush
administration's ``lax oversight of sales and marketing
tactics'' which are used more often with private fee-for-service
plans than other types, said Senator  Max Baucus , chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee.  
 ``We will consider what we need to do to reform private
fee-for-service plans,'' said Baucus, a Montana Democrat. ``We
will consider whether we need to check their growth.''  
 Boosts Profit  
 Medicare Advantage offers people gym memberships and lower
out-of-pocket costs if they designate private insurers to
administer their care. The program, along with the Medicare
prescription drug benefit, has boosted health insurance industry
profit, said Carl McDonald, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in
 New York .  
 The largest providers of U.S.-sponsored Medicare Advantage
plans are  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , of Minnetonka,  Minnesota , and
 Humana Inc. (HUM) , of Louisville,  Kentucky . Humana relies on Medicare
plans for 54 percent of its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, McDonald said.  
 Humana has been fined $1 million by Oklahoma and Illinois
insurance regulators in the last five months for using
unlicensed agents to sell Medicare plans.  
 UnitedHealth fell 58 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $50.20 at
4:02 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Humana
dropped 42 cents to $79.61.  
 Unfair Advantage?  
 Medicare Advantage has three kinds of plans. Health
maintenance organizations and preferred provider organizations
have networks of participating doctors and hospitals and must
share quality and cost data with the government. Private fee-
for-service plans have no formal provider networks and are
exempt from reporting requirements, giving them an unfair
advantage over the others, Miller said.  
 Private fee-for-service plans are popular in rural areas,
where there aren't enough doctors and hospitals to create the
competition that leads to fee discounts and participation in an
insurer's network.  
 Many private fee-for-service plans have higher out-of-
pocket costs for nursing home or hospital services than patients
expect, said Elyse Politi, a Virginia official who helps elderly
residents with Medicare issues, testified to the committee.  
 Hospitals, doctors and nursing homes have refused service
to people in some fee-for-service plans because of copayments
that sometimes exceed those in regular Medicare plans, testified
Albert Fisk, medical director of a clinic in Everett,
 Washington .  
 `Flawed'  
 ``Private fee for service plans are poorly organized to
contain costs or improve quality,'' Miller said. ``The payment
mechanism is flawed and invites inefficient plans to
participate.''  
 The newest twist is using private fee-for-service plans as
substitutes for retiree medical coverage through employers and
union contracts, said David Fillman, an official of the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees union.  
 ``These plans claim to be nationwide, but this is false,''
Fillman said. ``Significant numbers of doctors and hospitals
have refused to accept the membership card. Many West Virginia
retirees who moved out of state can get no doctor to accept
it.''  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Avram Goldstein in Washington at 
 agoldstein1@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        