-- Exxon Works Up New Recipe for Frying the Planet: Eric Pooley
-- Eric Pooley
-- 2009-08-25T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-08-24/exxon-works-up-new-recipe-for-frying-the-planet-eric-pooley.html

          
          
             Exxon Mobil Corp.  is trying to put
one over on you.  
 The world’s biggest publicly traded oil company wants you
to believe that it actually supports the fight against global
warming. But its tactics, which have been unfolding on opposite
sides of the globe, are just another recipe for cooking the
planet in three easy steps.  
 Exxon’s old formula wasn’t working anymore. The oil giant
used to bankroll scientists who claimed all that stuff about
starving polar bears and melting ice caps was just mumbo jumbo.
In a 1998 memo, the American Petroleum Institute -- the industry
group in which Exxon has long been dominant -- said it would
achieve “victory” when doubts about climate science become
“part of the ‘conventional wisdom.’” That helped create a
noisy minority of skeptics, but it won’t block climate
legislation forever.  
 So now Exxon is playing a more subtle game. It runs plenty
of ads featuring people in lab coats talking about clean energy.
It spent $15 million on Washington lobbyists in the first half
of this year -- more than all the solar and wind companies
combined. And it has created its new three-step program, which
is based on bad economics instead of shady science.  
 Step One: Gin up some frightening numbers, and use scare
tactics and lobbying muscle to kill the Obama administration’s
proposed mandatory cap on carbon emissions.  
 Job-Killer  
 As the U.S. Senate begins work on the climate-change bill,
which squeaked through the House of Representatives in June,
Exxon is among those denouncing the plan to cap emissions as a
stealth tax that would destroy jobs and drive up energy costs.
How does the oil producer know this? Because think tanks funded
by Exxon and others say so.  
 The company  announced  last year that it had stopped giving
money to global-warming skeptics who “divert attention” from
the need for clean energy.  
 Instead, it  supports  groups such as the  American Council
for Capital Formation  and the  National Center for Policy
Analysis , which issue industry-friendly research. One  study 
released in May by the Heritage Foundation, which received at
least $50,000 from Exxon last year, claims that by putting a
price on carbon, the measure will kill millions of jobs and send
gasoline soaring.  
 The study has been criticized for making  wildly pessimistic 
economic assumptions -- no energy efficiency gains, no increased
use of renewables -- and for ignoring the bill’s many cost
containment provisions. The non-partisan  Congressional Budget
Office  found that middle-class households would pay only $175 a
year more in 2020 because of the legislation.  
 Doomsday Study  
 But let’s look closer. This doomsday study claims the
measure would drive gasoline prices to $4 a gallon -- in 2035!
If we don’t develop alternative energy, which is the whole point
of climate legislation, a gallon of gas will cost a lot more
than that in 25 years. The price of inaction is far higher than
the cost of acting now, though that’s not a discussion Exxon
wants to have.  
 Step Two: Organize demonstrations. On Aug. 18, about 3,500
people rallied in Houston against the bill -- the first of some
20 such “Energy Citizen” events sponsored by API and other
industry groups. The participants were energy industry workers,
many of whom wore T-shirts saying, “I’ll Pass on $4 Gas.”  
 How did they come to be there? A leaked  memo  from API
president  Jack Gerard  asked the group’s member companies to send
employees to the rallies to “focus our message” against
“Waxman-Markey-like legislation, tax increases, and (energy)
access limitations.” He also asked them to keep it quiet.  
 Legislative Caricature  
 Royal Dutch Shell and BP refused to participate in the
events because they support cap and trade, but Chevron,
ConocoPhillips and Anadarko Petroleum are involved, along with
more than 60 other businesses and associations. Exxon advised
its workers that attendance was “at their own discretion and
not required,” spokesman  Rob Young  told me, while saying that
Exxon “opposes this deeply flawed legislation” and agrees with
the rally’s job-killer message. How could it not? It helped pay
for studies that “prove” the point.  
 Step 3: Offer a seemingly sensible alternative policy.
Having caricatured the legislation, Exxon then offers a
compromise. That’s what it did in Australia earlier this month,
after the legislature shot down Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd’s 
climate proposal. Last week the chairman of Exxon’s Australian
unit,  John Dashwood , called for replacing cap and trade with a
carbon tax. Echoing a January 2009 speech against cap and trade
by Chief Executive  Rex Tillerson , Dashwood said the carbon tax
“is more transparent to consumers, will achieve greater
environmental benefits and is more difficult to manipulate than
a cap-and-trade program.”  
 Tax Without Change  
 Let’s get this straight. Exxon is demonstrating against a
climate bill in the U.S. because it is supposedly a hidden tax,
and on the other side of the globe it is lobbying for a tax.
This may seem contradictory, but it’s not. I believe the company
simply recognizes what so many others have missed in the debate
over the tax versus the cap: The cap requires economy-wide
emissions reductions, and the tax doesn’t.  
 Exxon doesn’t want to do business in a world where cuts in
carbon dioxide are mandatory. It would prefer to pay a modest
tax and keep on polluting.  
 A tax wouldn’t guarantee any carbon reductions, let alone
bring about the steep cuts needed to stave off the worst climate
changes. By calling for a small tax instead of a mandatory cap,
that’s exactly the kind of solution Exxon is proposing.  
 ( Eric Pooley , a former managing editor of Fortune magazine
who is writing a book about the politics of global warming, is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Eric Pooley at  epooley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A commercial plane approaches an airport in the background of an Exxon station in Columbus, Ohio in this file photo. Photographer: Gary Gardiner/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
