-- Crown Prince of White-Collar Convicts May Go Free: Ann Woolner
-- Ann Woolner
-- 2010-03-05T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-04/crown-prince-of-white-collar-convicts-may-go-free-ann-woolner.html

          
          
             In the rash of white-collar
prosecutions that followed the rash of accounting scandals in
2001 and 2002, no conviction was as welcome as those of  Enron 
Corp.’s top two executives.  
 Before  Bernard Madoff  jumped to the top of America’s most-
hated fraudster list,  Kenneth Lay  and  Jeffrey Skilling  shared
the spot. The two were accused of lying about Enron’s financial
health while growing rich from inflated share prices. Of
all the frauds in the early aughts, none galled as much as the
one that broke the world’s largest energy trader.  
 While lesser crooks were hauled into courthouses and tossed
in jail, impatience grew for the hides of Lay and Skilling. A
special government task force spent years building a case,
winning an indictment and maneuvering through pretrial
skirmishes.  
 Finally, in 2006, after 16 weeks of trial and five days of
deliberation, a federal jury in Houston declared them guilty of
multiple counts of fraud.  
 Now there is a chance all of that will come to naught.  
 Lay died in 2006 before sentencing and appeal, so a judge
nullified his conviction as the law required. However reviled,
he died an innocent man in the eyes of the law.  
 Now Skilling just might come out from under his conviction
by less dramatic means.  
 Partial Reversal  
 As his appeal awaits a decision from the U.S.  Supreme
Court , look for a partial reversal at least. Several justices
have expressed distaste for one of the laws that prosecutors
used in this indictment, as in other white-collar cases.  
 The vague “honest services” fraud statute could well doom
those counts that are based on it. If the court alters or
strikes down the law, it could reverse anywhere from one to 14
of the 19 counts of Skilling’s conviction.  
 But there are five counts, for insider trading and lying to
auditors, that have nothing to do with honest services fraud.
Those counts would keep Skilling in prison for years to come. He
would stay put unless the court decides the entire trial was too
unfair to trust any part of the guilty verdict.  
 This week, several justices gave him reason to hope for an
all-out reversal, on every single count.  
 Skilling was handed that possibility because of his trial
judge’s devotion to efficiency. U.S. District Judge Simeon Lake
III in Houston was more focused on keeping his own tight
schedule for jury selection than he was on weeding out biased
jurors.  
 Trial in Houston  
 The first problem was that Lake let the trial take place in
Houston, the one city in the world where anti-Enron passions ran
hottest, deepest and broadest. Even if jurors entered the
courtroom with no such feelings themselves, would they have the
backbone to declare these men not guilty when everyone around
them wants their hides?  
 Lake blew off defense evidence of widespread bias without
so much as a hearing.  
 That might have been OK had he then thoroughly questioned
potential jurors and sent home those too biased to be fair, or
those with a conflict of interest.  
 He didn’t.  
 One potential juror said she had lost $50,000 to $60,000 in
the Enron debacle, yet Lake declined to excuse her for cause.  
 “How can we be satisfied that there was a fair and
impartial jury picked when the judge doesn’t follow up on a
witness who says, ‘I’m a victim of this fraud?’” asked Justice
 Sonia Sotomayor .  
 Discretionary Dismissal  
 True, that juror was dismissed on a discretionary strike by
the defense, as were others who expressed bias. But the number
of those so-called  peremptory  challenges is limited.  
 Lake’s refusal to excuse some seemingly biased jurors for
cause forced the defense to use strikes they might have
otherwise saved for jurors who provoked subtler concerns for
them. Limited in number, peremptory challenges are designed for
that.  
 During Supreme Court arguments, Justice  Stephen Breyer 
said he counted at least three and as many as six potential 
jurors who Lake refused to dismiss in spite of clear indications
of bias.  
 “I am worried about a fair trial,” Breyer said. “I am
genuinely worried.”  
 Whether the court will decide for Skilling based on that
concern is another question. Breyer also fretted about how far
the Supreme Court should go in micromanaging jury selection and
telling an experienced, respected judge such as Lake how to do
his job.  
 Solid Reputation  
 And yet, part of Lake’s solid reputation stems from his
ability to keep trials running smoothly and quickly without
bullying lawyers. Great. But surely fairness should come first.  
 A 14-page pretrial questionnaire culled the most deeply
prejudiced of the potential jurors. Of those who were left, Lake
spent a mere five hours questioning 48 of them to see whether
any expressions of bias in their written answers made them
unable to fairly judge the evidence.  
 Five hours was nothing, considering a widespread sense in
Houston that the once-beloved Lay had betrayed the city’s trust,
a belief that Lay and Skilling should be made to pay for their
crimes and the pervasive publicity about Enron’s collapse and
the trial itself.  
 It took five days to sort through  Martha Stewart’s  jury
pool in New York.  
 But Lake had promised to conclude jury selection in a day,
and this he did.  
 If Skilling wins on that claim, his conviction on all 19
counts would be thrown out. The government would have to decide
whether to seek re-indictment, which would be far more difficult
now than it was before, when the evidence was less than a decade
old.  
 And this time Lay wouldn’t be there as his co-defendant to
give the allegations more heft.  
 The whole previous effort would have been wasted.  
 How is that for efficiency?  
 ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        