-- Mint Manages Money for the Attention-Impaired: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- Rich Jaroslovsky
-- 2010-03-04T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-04/mint-manages-money-for-the-attention-impaired-rich-jaroslovsky.html

          
          
             In  Mint.com ’s creation story, as
recounted on its Web site, founder  Aaron Patzer  started the free
online personal-finance service after a tedious 2005 session
with  Intuit Corp. ’s Quicken budgeting software. These days, any
complaints about Quicken should be directed at Patzer himself.  
 Tired of getting its clock cleaned by his upstart
operation, Intuit last year bought Mint and put Patzer in charge
of its entire personal-finance operation. Now he and his new
parent face the task of figuring out how the various pieces will
fit together and rejuvenating Intuit’s  Quicken  franchise.  
 Mint’s greatest strength is its ability to create a budget
for people who don’t have the time or patience to make one
themselves. Think of it as “Quicken: Short-Attention-Span
Edition.” Once you provide log-ins for your bank accounts,
credit cards and other financial activities, the site gathers
your transactions, categorizes them, analyzes your spending
patterns and says, “OK, here’s how much you have to play
with.”  
 Now, I long ago got over any reluctance to trust software
with my financial information. Still, it felt a little weird to
know Mint was looking at my spending habits. It’s much the same
feeling I get knowing Google Inc. is analyzing the contents of
my Gmail messages in order to show me ads.  
 No Input  
 There are two ways of looking at how good a job Mint does.
On the one hand, it’s impressive to have a budget at all, given
that Mint constructs it with, essentially, no input from you. On
the other hand, you’d think that a service that smart ought to
know that a teenage daughter’s purchases from the  Sephora 
cosmetics chain are more likely to be in the “personal care”
realm than “clothing.” While Mint correctly guessed that
purchases made at  Whole Foods Market  were likely to be
groceries, it couldn’t figure out that transactions from Kings
Super Markets were, too.  
 So what do you do? You notice the problems and fix them
yourself. In other words: You’re refining your budget. After a
while, you may even find yourself clicking over to the Planning
tab and beginning to do more serious work on your financial
future. The key is that you’re doing it as you go along, and on
your own timetable.  
 Among other nice features, Mint provides a simple way to
track the value of your investments, a useful companion  iPhone 
app and a set of e-mail or text alerts for low balances, pending
bills and exceeding your budget.  
 Home-Equity Stumble  
 On the other hand, the service stumbled over handling a
home-equity line. Mint’s customer-service department replied
promptly via e-mail with a solution that turned out to be
incorrect, but that set me on the path to solving the problem
myself.  
 Mint makes money by collecting bounties from financial
institutions for steering you to their products based on your
spending patterns. (It also provides aggregated consumer-
spending data, including to Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
Bloomberg News.)  
 To Mint’s credit, it clearly labels which offers come from
its sponsors, and you’ll find unsponsored ones mixed in as well.
Beware, though: There may be less to some of those purported
“savings” than meets the eye.  
 For instance, Mint suggested a credit card from its sponsor
 Discover  that would supposedly save me a bunch of money by
showering me with rewards and perks. But the comparison failed
to take into account the rewards and perks of my current card.
Once I went back and added those details, a lot of the purported
savings evaporated.  
 Missing From Mint  
 Missing from Mint is the ability to make online payments,
as are powerful investment-management tools. For that, you will
still need Intuit’s Quicken, which comes in various editions
ranging in price from $29.99 to $89.99, including its first new
Mac version in three years.  
 Quicken, which is one of the longest continually produced
PC programs this side of  Microsoft  Word, could use a dash of
Mint’s more youthful DNA. The program’s annual updates have
become increasingly indistinguishable from each other, save when
some annoying new feature is introduced and you have to go
hunting for the command to turn it off. (My least favorite was
the now-defunct Zipingo, which constantly prompted you to rate
people to whom you were making payments.)  
 Quicken also requires frequent software patches that are
sometimes more trouble than they’re worth. Update No. 7 for the
2010 version promptly blew away my ability to download
transactions from or send payments through my main checking
account.  
 I’ve got nothing against Quicken. It sort of runs in the
family: One of my relatives works at Intuit in a non-product
role, and even my father was a devoted Quicken user.  
 But Dad passed away in 1989. For better or worse, Mint.com
isn’t my father’s Quicken. Mostly for the better.  
 ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  
 To contact the writer of this column:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in New York at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        