-- Mitsubishi All-Wheel Drives Defy Iciest Roads: Jason H. Harper
-- Jason H. Harper
-- 2010-03-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-04/mitsubishi-all-wheel-drives-defy-iciest-roads-jason-h-harper.html

          
          
             Tim O’Neil appears to be either out
of control or simply insane.  
 He’s sliding a 2010 Mitsubishi Evolution sedan sideways
down an ice-slicked woodland road. Turning the wheel, he flies
the $44,000 car off a snowy crest and lands downhill, about 16
inches from a massive tree.  
 I’m in the passenger seat.  
 A flick of the wheel and a stab on the gas and we slide the
other way, averting disaster. I knew what I was getting myself
into. Even so, my adrenaline is pulsing.  
 O’Neil, 50, is a five-time champion American rally driver
and the owner of  Team O’Neil Rally School & Car Control Center .
His facility is 600 acres of closed dirt roads in the deep woods
of northern New Hampshire.  
 This must be providence. I’ve been trying to get back to
O’Neil’s school since completing a multiday rally course five
years ago. I already had a snowshoeing trip planned in the White
Mountains when  Mitsubishi  called with an offer to test its all-
wheel-drive cars in extreme conditions: O’Neil’s.  
 Mitsubishi’s goal was to show that its AWD technology is as
sharp as better-known competitors like  Audi  and Subaru. They
were willing to sacrifice three off-the-lot vehicles to the
automotive press on the world’s slickest roads. (If they’re not
slick enough, O’Neil’s folks will wet ‘em down.)  
 Rally racing is a popular motorsport worldwide that’s set
on real roads with scant traction like gravel, ice or dirt.
Practitioners are the equivalent of  Cirque du Soleil  acrobats,
able to exert superior control under maximum stress.  
 Brutal Winter  
 This year’s brutal winter in much of the U.S. and Europe
shows we could all use snow-surviving, slip-sliding skills.  
 One of Mitsubishi’s testers is a  Lancer Evolution MR , a
turbo-engine sedan, known for speed and toughness. We also try
out the AWD, $30,000  Outlander  GT SUV and the $28,000 Lancer
 Sportback Ralliart  hatchback.  
 By transferring torque among slipping wheels to achieve
maximum traction, AWDs are uniquely suited to wet and icy roads.  
 The Evo boasts a system grandiosely named “Super All-Wheel
Control,” an intricate web of center and rear differentials,
hydraulic clutches, yaw sensors and other techie stuff.  
 Its genius is evident while bounding through an icy slalom
course. In normal mode, the Evo works hard to keep all four
wheels from slipping. But on its most aggressive control
setting, the Evo encourages controlled four-wheel drifts. It
knows when to lend power to the rear wheels in the straightaways
and extra traction to inner wheels when turning.  
 Using rally techniques, I coax it into smart slides around
obstacles, and carve down steep mountain roads. Open spaces are
ideal for snow-spewing power slides and handbrake turns.  
 Lose Control  
 Over two days I only lose control once, sliding nose first
into a snow bank. No damage done.  
 “The Evo’s systems are almost too good,” said O’Neil at
my side. “An average driver feels like an expert.” Under a
wise pilot’s hand, Mitsubishi’s AWD is in many ways more
adaptive and exploitable than, say, Audi’s.  
 The Sportback’s and Outlander’s AWD systems are less
aggressive if no less effective. The Outlander ably manages
slick asphalt and snowy roads, while the Sportback is a tuned-
down version of the Evo; plenty of fun, but much more sane.  
 With record snow falls in places like Washington D.C., I’m
reminded that training exercises are far from pointless.  
 “I’m trying to save the world through driver education,”
said O’Neil. “Drivers get in situations and they don’t know how
to react. We try to teach you what to do in that moment when you
need it most.”  
 Navy Seals  
 O’Neil’s school offers three type of courses, from a basic
one-day $395  winter safety school  ideal for all ages and
drivers, to rally courses taken by current racing champs like
Travis Pastrana, to security courses attended by Navy Seals.  
 “Contact, contact, contact!”  
 O’Neil is shouting in my ear from the passenger seat,
pointing out the imaginary bad guys who have just cut us off.  
 I ram the Evo into reverse, stomp on the gas and spin the
wheel hard. The Mitsubishi skids around 180 degrees. Dropping it
back into gear, I speed away. “That’s a J turn,” O’Neil says
happily.  
 It’s one escape technique taught at the  security school , to
which both corporations and government agencies send personnel.
Students learn evasive driving, on-and-off road maneuvers, how
to recognize ambushes, and even get shot at using dummy
munitions.  
 Driving CEOs  
 “There is an ever-increasing need for corporations to
utilize techniques we normally teach to the military,” O’Neil
said. “We get security personnel who drive CEOs, to oilfield
engineers who’ve got to navigate miles of dirt roads in
dangerous areas.”  
 For the rest of us, learning to counteract a skid is more
than enough.  
 “Moms and their teens who attend our winter safety school
are horrified at the thought of skidding out of control on
purpose,” O’Neil said. “At the end of the day, they swing back
onto the road feeling empowered.”  
 ( Jason H. Harper  writes about autos for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A 2010 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution MR on a snowy track at Team O'Neil Rally School in Dalton, New Hampshire. This year’s brutal winter in much of the U.S. and Europe
shows all drivers can use snow-surviving, slip-sliding skills. Photographer: Herb Swanson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tim O'Neil, owner of Team O'Neil Rally School, drives a 2010 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution MR on a snowy track at Team O'Neil Rally School in Dalton, New Hampshire. The school is set in a private 560-acre valley and consists of a 6.5-mile forest road course, separate skid pad and braking zone, obstacle avoidance area and a slalom course. Photographer: Herb Swanson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A 2010 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution MR on a snowy track at Team O'Neil Rally School in Dalton, New Hampshire. Rally racing is a popular motorsport worldwide that is set on real roads with little traction like gravel, ice or dirt. Photographer: Herb Swanson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Subaru rally car on a snowy track at Team O'Neil Rally School in Dalton, New Hampshire. The school is set in a private 560-acre valley and consists of a 6.5-mile forest road course, separate skid pad and braking zone, obstacle avoidance area, and a slalom course. Photographer: Herb Swanson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A 2010 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution MR is driven on a snowy skid pad at Team O'Neil Rally School in Dalton, New Hampshire. Mitsubishi’s goal was to show that its AWD technology is as sharp as better-known competitors like Audi and Subaru. Photographer: Herb Swanson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A 2010 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution MR on a snowy skid pad at Team O'Neil Rally School in Dalton, New Hampshire. Photographer: Herb Swanson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
