-- Recovery And Anxiety
-- 
-- 2010-03-04T14:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-04/recovery-and-anxiety.html

          
          
             JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs topped the rankings in a year when
fees gained 13 percent. Bankers are cautiously optimistic for
2010.  
 By Yalman Onaran
Bloomberg Markets, April 2010  
 As 2009 began, the world’s banks and brokers were in a deep
hole. They had recorded some $1 trillion in credit losses and
writedowns of their mortgage holdings in the financial crisis of
2007 and 2008, and markets were still reeling. To recapitalize,
they issued stock -- a lot of it.  
 More than half of the new shares sold worldwide in the
first six months of 2009 were those of banks and brokers. That
kept investment bankers busy marketing their own -- and each
others’ -- shares, while their clients hunkered down waiting for
the storm to pass, Bloomberg Markets reports in its April issue.  
 The sky cleared in the second half, making 2009 a year of
recovery. By year’s end, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index had
shot up 65 percent from its March 9 low, which helped trigger a
flood of new stock and bond issues and merger activity.  
 Total investment-banking fees for all firms rose 13 percent
in 2009, to $59.8 billion from $53.1 billion, still well shy of
the record $86.9 billion reached in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Markets for its sixth annual ranking of
the best-paid investment banks.  
 The world’s No. 1 investment bank in 2009 was JPMorgan
Chase & Co., which took in $4.97 billion, a 16 percent increase
over 2008, when it was also the leader. JPMorgan was also No. 1
in fees from equity and debt sales. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was
No. 2 in total fees and No. 1 in mergers and acquisitions,
having advised drugmaker Schering-Plough Corp. on its completed
$47 billion sale to Merck & Co., among other transactions.  
 “JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs have the field to themselves
because they’ve emerged as the victors, at least in clients’
perceptions,” says Bruce Foerster, president of Miami-based
advisory firm South Beach Capital Markets.  
 Stars Are Aligned  
 Executives and bankers expect the recovery to gain momentum
in 2010.  
 “All the stars are lined up for a resurgence, but a return
of stock market volatility will ruin the party,” says Robert
Kindler, global head of mergers advice at Morgan Stanley.
Kindler’s anxiety about the possibility of a big market
correction is shared by investment-banking heads at Barclays
Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG, UBS AG and Goldman.  
 The Dow Jones Industrial Average took an 800-point plunge
from Jan. 19 to Feb. 8. It has since recovered more than half of
the drop. Kindler says that if the markets stabilize, the value
of merger deals could rise as much as 20 percent in 2010. If
they don’t, M&A volume could decline from last year.  
 James Amine, Credit Suisse’s co-head of investment banking,
says he sees a possible 30 percent jump in the sale of new
shares, bonds, syndicated loans and securitizations.  
 Off the Bottom  
 “Are we off the bottom?” asks David Solomon, global co-
head of investment banking at Goldman Sachs. “Yes, it seems
that way. Are we heading back to the top this year? While we may
not yet be, we saw a lot of activity in capital markets and M&A
in the second half of 2009, and that momentum is continuing into
2010.”  
 For the biggest banks, 2009 was a year of humility. In the
U.S., top executives and millionaire traders were denounced by
the Obama administration, Congress and the media for refusing to
give up their bonuses.  
 Goldman spent 2009 defending its role in the 2008 bailout
of insurance giant American International Group Inc. The Federal
Reserve Bank of New York and its former head, Treasury Secretary
Timothy F. Geithner, are being called on to answer questions by
Neil Barofsky, special inspector general for the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, for ordering that Goldman and other banks be
paid 100 percent of what they were owed on credit-default swaps
they bought from AIG and then concealing the names of the
recipients.  
 Morgan Stanley Comeback  
 While their chief executives spent time testifying in
Washington, investment bankers were taking advantage of the
resurgence in deals. Morgan Stanley, whose investment-banking
fees dropped by more than half in 2008 as questions arose about
its viability, made a powerful comeback last year, taking in
$4.33 billion in total fees, a 43 percent increase, although
still nowhere near the $6.36 billion it generated in 2007. No. 6
Credit Suisse climbed two rungs as its fees surged 29 percent.
No. 5 Citigroup, the recipient of the largest government
bailout, fell in the rankings for a second year; its $3.86
billion in fees was just a 2 percent increase from what it
reaped in 2008.
 JPMorgan’s huge size and deep pockets -- it has $2 trillion in
assets -- allowed it to provide companies with M&A advice and
equity and debt underwriting and then lend them the money to do
the deals.  
 Fewer Merger Deals  
 “Clients will always look to do business with investment
banks that they are confident can provide all these services and
the capital they need in good times and bad,” says Douglas
Braunstein, JPMorgan’s investment-banking chief.  
 Overall, there were fewer merger deals and initial share
offerings in 2009 than the year before, and it will be years,
bankers predict, before they match the peak of 2007. The drop in
M&A and IPOs was offset by a surge in bond and secondary stock
sales. Bond markets fared well when corporations shut off from
direct bank lending turned to debt issuance. Stock sales jumped
as both financial and nonfinancial companies used share sales to
recapitalize.  
 The largest banks face other head winds besides skittish
markets. Government-enforced pay caps on the biggest earners at
commercial and investment banks could accelerate a brain drain
to smaller firms that has been under way for more than two
years. If the Federal Reserve raises interest rates to ward off
inflation, that could crimp economic growth and raise the cost
of financing acquisitions and the issuance of new debt.  
 Equity vs. M&A  
 The merger market remained in a slump in 2009. For the
first time in the six years since Bloomberg began tracking fees
in 2004, banks made more money in equity-underwriting deals than
they did by arranging acquisitions: $21.7 billion versus $19.3
billion.  
 The year was marked by two stages, says Purna Saggurti,
global co-head of corporate and investment banking at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, which ranks No. 4 in the Bloomberg 20,
with $4 billion in fees, and No. 5 in merger fees. The first few
months were about survival, as credit dried up, share prices
languished and bankruptcies surged, he says.  
 With the turnaround of markets in April after the S&P 500
hit a 13-year low of 677 in March, the mood shifted. As the year
progressed, corporations, led by financial institutions, were
able to recapitalize by selling stock to someone other than the
government. Only at the very end of 2009 and the beginning of
2010 did industrial and other companies turn their gaze toward
expansion opportunities, Saggurti says.  
 Growth Via Acquisition  
 Given the slow growth in developed economies -- expected to
be 2.1 percent this year, according to the International
Monetary Fund -- acquisitions will be the chief strategy for
companies looking for a way to boost revenue, says Peter J.
Solomon of New York-based investment-banking boutique Peter J.
Solomon Co.  
 “Companies that have survived the debacle have to figure
out what they can do to increase market share, and that’s when
acquisitions come into play,” Solomon says.  
 Private-equity firms, a major source of investment bank
revenue in the past decade, are no longer the big players in the
M&A market. In 2007, private-equity transactions made up 19
percent of all merger activity, according to Bloomberg data.
Last year, they accounted for 5 percent. A recovery to 2007
levels might take as long as five years, Morgan Stanley’s
Kindler says.  
 Still, there’s a clear revival in the ability of outfits
such as Blackstone Group LP and KKR & Co. to buy and sell
companies.  
 Downsizing Private Equity  
 “We shouldn’t write off private equity,” Saggurti says.
“Maybe we won’t have $40 billion deals, but they’ll still pull
off $5 billion to $10 billion deals. They just can’t be as
competitive for the big deals.”  
 The overall investment-banking market’s recovery has been
fueled by CEOs who now see a future for their businesses and by
investors who have regained their appetite for risk, bankers
say. JPMorgan’s Braunstein says the renewed confidence will show
itself in a spate of new IPOs. Among the largest will be share
sales of government-controlled companies in emerging markets,
says Raj Dhanda, head of global capital markets at Morgan
Stanley. Beijing-based Agricultural Bank of China plans an IPO
this year that could raise $29 billion, an official at the China
Banking Regulatory Commission says. Poland may raise $10 billion
from selling stakes of state-owned companies, including Warsaw-
based PZU SA, the country’s biggest insurer.  
 Second Half Comeback  
 Debt markets followed the same pattern as equities and M&A
in 2009. In the first half, there was demand only for
investment-grade securities from the largest corporations. The
lucrative market for new high-yield corporate issues was close
to dead. Junk bonds made a strong comeback in the second half,
surging to a record, as appetite for risk started to return.
That trend is continuing in 2010, Dhanda says.  
 Structured products, including collateralized-debt
obligations -- bundles of subprime mortgage loans and other debt
-- made up almost 40 percent of all debt issued in 2006. In
2009, they accounted for 10 percent.  
 “That market is back, but not in the same way,” says Hugh
“Skip” McGee, Barclays Capital’s head of global investment
banking. “So we’ll see far fewer esoteric CDOs. Plain vanilla
securitization of car loans and credit card debt is what is
back.”  
 In January, Wells Fargo & Co. arranged a $275 million CDO
backed by commercial loans, a sign of thawing markets.  
 Market Dips  
 Yet all this progress could come to a quick end if the
global economy suffers a new shock that results in heavy market
losses. It’s already been shaken by market dips in January and
February that were triggered when China ordered its banks to
tighten lending standards and U.S. President Barack Obama called
for limits on risk taking by banks.  
 Growing anxiety about the debt woes of European Union
countries including Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain added to
the jitters. As of this week, it looked like the EU would come
to the aid of Greece, which disclosed in October it was running
up a budget deficit of more than 12 percent of GDP.  
 “Capital markets and merger activity go hand in hand with
economic growth,” says David Hendler, head of U.S. financial
services research at Credit­Sights Inc. “So as China tries to
cool off and Western economies recover slowly, those activities
cannot surge. And if there’s an economic or market dip, then the
expectations of 10 to 20 percent expansion in investment banking
won’t be attainable either.”  
 Stock Market Jitters  
 A heavy market sell-off would hit the prospects first for
new IPOs and then mergers, McGee says. Firms that are selling
shares for the first time are more sensitive to market levels as
they try to maximize what they can raise, bankers say. While
strong companies looking to buy competitors for strategic
reasons pay less attention to stock price gyrations, a sharp
reduction in their market value makes all-stock deals less
appealing to both sides.  
 “Great stories will still get done, but some on the
margins will be halted,” McGee says.  
 McGee used to be in charge of investment banking at Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., whose September 2008 bankruptcy
resounded around the world. Barclays bought Lehman’s U.S.
operations. Lehman was No. 9 in the 2007 Bloomberg 20 ranking,
while Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by market value,
was 18th. The combination helped Barclays move up to Lehman’s
No. 9 spot in 2009.  
 Like JPMorgan, Barclays attracts clients with its big store
of assets: $2.5 trillion. When Pfizer Inc. was bidding to take
over Wyeth, five banks advising the acquirer had to commit $4.5
billion each for financing. Lehman couldn’t have done that,
McGee says. Barclays could, thanks to the fact that its balance
sheet is triple the size that Lehman’s was.  
 Sinking Citigroup  
 No bank that’s still operating has fallen farther in the
investment-banking pantheon than Citigroup, which was No. 1 in
the Bloomberg 20 ranking from 2004 through 2007 and fell to
No. 2 in 2008. It’s now No. 5. The $3.86 billion in total fees
it captured in 2009 is a little more than half of the record
$6.88 billion it garnered in 2007.  
 Citigroup took a $45 billion bailout from the government’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program, $20 billion of which it has paid
back. The U.S. government owns 27 percent of Citigroup shares,
which dropped more than 90 percent in the last 30 months. The
bank lost $7.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009.  
 “Citi will carry the burden the longest,” South Beach
Capital’s Foerster says. “Their reputation has been the most
battered, and no glue is left to hold the employees together.”  
 Lost Market Share  
 Bank of America Corp. has also lost market share despite
its takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co. In 2007, the two banks’
combined portion of the M&A market was 23 percent. Last year,
the merged entity managed just 16 percent. Similar losses
occurred in debt and equity underwriting.  
 “Integration can take 5 to 10 years, and that’s going to
be a drag on Bank of America,” Foerster says.  
 UBS has also fallen back. The Zurich-based bank lost $57
billion on investments tied to the U.S. mortgage market, the
biggest amount among European banks, and received a 6 billion
Swiss franc ($5.6 billion) capital injection from the Swiss
government. Its 2008 net loss of 21 billion francs was the
biggest in the country’s corporate history. UBS’s $2.5 billion
in total 2009 fees represents a 20 percent drop from 2008. The
bank fell four places in the Bloomberg 20 to No. 8.  
 James Neissa, co-head of investment banking at UBS, says
the bank, which in 2000 bought U.S. brokerage Paine Webber Group
Inc., lost some clients because they doubted its viability.  
 Turning Around UBS  
 Now that it has put its losses and other troubles behind
it, Neissa says, UBS can use its balance sheet again to back its
investment bankers.  
 “We’ll be allocating more of our capital to creating long-
term revenue streams,” he says. “And frankly, the buyout
market is one perfect way of doing that. We’ll participate in
that market more than before.”  
 As the big banks adjust to the “new normal,” they’ve
watched a steady stream of their clients take their business to
boutique firms. There were 601 firms that made a fee from M&A
advice in 2001; last year, that number rose to 921.  
 The top 10 banks in the Bloomberg 20 have seen their
portion of the merger market dwindle in the past nine years to
64 percent from 74 percent, according to Bloomberg data. The top
10’s share of stock underwriting has dropped to 72 percent from
80 percent. Their piece of the bond market fell to 51 percent
from 64 percent.  
 275,000 Layoffs  
 The bankers themselves have followed the business to the
smaller firms, some of them among the 275,000 employees the 20
largest banks have let go since 2007, according to Bloomberg
data. Political pressure to reduce high-paid bankers’
compensation has helped the boutiques lure some new hires,
Solomon says. He increased Peter J. Solomon’s banker rolls by 41
percent in 2009 as a result of such opportunities, he says.  
 “Sectors such as M&A advisory don’t require significant
capital, and bankers may find working for a financial boutique
more attractive,” Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst Brad Hintz
says.  
 The big banks are doing their best to defend their turf.  
 “We provide holistic solutions for our clients, ranging
from advisory services to capital raising, to financing,” Bank
of America’s Saggurti says. “Most boutiques can’t compete with
that.”  
 There’s no escaping that the carnage of the past three
years has shrunk banks’ fees along with their balance sheets.
Investment banks emerged from their last slump in 2002 to 2003
and rallied into four years of spectacular growth. No one is
predicting that kind of rebound this time. The big banks are
taking it one year at a time.  
 Yalman Onaran is a reporter in New York at
 yonaran@bloomberg.net   
 #<535521.2245115.2.1.35.32688.811>#
-0- Mar/04/2010 14:28 GMT
  
          
          


  


        