-- Russian Minister Says Car Industry Needs $40 Billion
-- Anastasia Ustinova
-- 2010-03-04T14:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-03-04/russian-minister-says-car-industry-needs-40-billion-update1-.html

          
          
             Russia ’s car industry needs as much
as 1.2 trillion rubles ($40.3 billion) of investment in the next
decade, Industry and Trade Minister Viktor Khristenko said.  
 The government today adopted a new plan for the country’s
automobile industry development through 2020. Under the plan,
Russian car companies must invest 584 billion rubles to overhaul
the industry, while the government will spend about 180 billion
rubles, Khristenko told reporters in Moscow today.  
 “The idea is that we will support the main players, main
alliances in the launch of the projects they have today,” said
Khristenko, referring to investments led by Renault SA and OAO
AvtoVAZ, Fiat SpA and OAO Sollers, and OAO Kamaz and Daimler AG
“The main phase of realizing these projects will end by 2015 or
2016, which is when our support ends.”  
 The government has implemented stimulus measures to help
the industry recover from the worst economic slump in more than
a decade, including foreign car import duties and state
subsidies. Russia’s version of the U.S. “cash-for-clunkers”
program will kick off next week. Khristenko said the program may
involve as much as 7 percent of cars in Russia.  
 Russian car sales plunged 56 percent last year to 1.4
million vehicles and may rise as much as 15 percent this year,
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in an e-mailed presentation on Jan.
20. Under a pessimistic economic scenario, sales may slide as
much as 5 percent this year, the audit firm said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ; Anastasia Ustinova in  St. Petersburg  at
   austinova@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick Henry  at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        