-- `My Fair Lady' Gets Paris Staging -- in English -- Phew!: Jorg von Uthmann
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2010-12-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/-my-fair-lady-gets-paris-staging-in-english-phew-jorg-von-uthmann.html
More than half a century after the
Broadway premiere, “My Fair Lady” has made it to the Paris
stage. It’s an enchanting production.  The Frederick Loewe and Alan Jay Lerner musical is
performed in English, fortunately, at the  Theatre du Chatelet .
Professor Higgins’s experiment -- transforming a Cockney flower
girl into a lady, who can speak the King’s English and pass
muster at an ambassador’s party -- makes sense only in a society
where accent and class are intimately linked.  You wouldn’t want to hear “Le ciel serein d’Espagne est
sans embrun,” the French subtitle in the 1964 movie musical,
instead of the original line “The rain in Spain stays mainly in
the plain.”  Never mind that  George Bernard Shaw , on whose 1912 play
“Pygmalion” the musical is based, would have hated it.
Although he dubbed his play “a romance,” Shaw insisted there
is no happy ending for Higgins and Eliza, his pupil.  Only at the press preview, two days before the opening of
the 1938 film, did Shaw discover that his screenplay had been
sweetened. The Cinderella story was born.  Before the curtain rises on the Paris production of the
musical, you see the portico of St. Paul’s Church in Covent
Garden, where the story begins, with the inscription “Mea
Pulchra Puella” or dog Latin for “My Fair Lady.”  Good Old Days  Robert Carsen, the director, Tim Hatley and  Anthony Powell ,
the set and costume designers, have spared no effort to conjure
up the good old times when a professor of phonetics could live
in a sumptuous house between Mayfair and Regent’s Park, pampered
by a maid, a cook, a footman and a chauffeur.  The only liberty they have taken is to move the action from
the Edwardian era to the interwar years with less formal, though
still elegant costumes.  The Theatre du Chatelet could afford this visibly expensive
production thanks to a burden-sharing agreement with the
 Mariinsky Theater  in St. Petersburg where it will travel in June
-- the first musical ever to be performed in that august
institution.  Alex Jennings is a perfect Higgins -- arrogant, self-
centered yet with emotions he discovers when Eliza threatens to
leave. He can’t really sing, but neither could Rex Harrison who
triumphed in the role on Broadway and in the movie.  Sarah Gabriel doesn’t have the charisma of  Julie Andrews ,
who created Eliza on Broadway, and her singing is bland. Still,
she’s touching enough to make believable the transformation from
proletarian guttersnipe to sensitive lady.  The best singing comes from Donald Maxwell’s Doolittle,
Eliza’s father, the paragon of the “undeserving poor.” He
relishes his juicy role with the voice of a Falstaff, a role he
sang at the  English National Opera .  Margaret Tyzack as the professor’s worldly-wise mother is a
model of grace and elegance. Kevin Farrell conducts the
Orchestre Pasdeloup with brio.  Rating: ***.  “My Fair Lady” is at the Theatre du Chatelet through Jan.
2, 2011. Information:  http://www.chatelet-theatre.com  or
+33-1-4028-2828.  ( Jorg von Uthmann  is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
 Jorg von Uthmann  in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 