-- Madoff Trustee Makes It Halfway With $7.2 Billion Deal
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-12-17T19:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/madoff-trustee-picard-collects-9-8-billion-half-of-all-investor-lossses.html
The estate of billionaire  Jeffry Picower , an investor in  Bernard L. Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, agreed
to forfeit $7.2 billion to victims of the fraud, bringing the
amount collected by authorities to $9.8 billion.  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, sued Picower in May 2009, claiming he
withdrew $7.2 billion more than he invested. Picower died in
October 2009 at age 67. Picard and U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ,
who is probing the Madoff fraud, announced the settlement today.  The settlement is “the most substantial step to date in
the effort to make the Madoff victims whole,” Bharara said
today at a news conference in New York.  Picard said that investors in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, the
largest in U.S. history, lost $20 billion in principal. Account
statements at the time of Madoff’s arrest in December 2008
showed total balances of $65 billion. Picard, who filed hundreds
of lawsuits seeking $50 billion, has now recovered $9.8 billion.  Picower began investing with Madoff in the late 1970s,
controlling dozens of accounts. He had a heart attack and
drowned in his swimming pool in Palm Beach, Florida. The
settlement “honors what Jeffry would have wanted,” said his
widow, Barbara.  ‘Deeply Saddened’  “I am absolutely confident that my husband Jeffry was in
no way complicit in Madoff’s fraud,” she said in the statement
by her lawyer,  William Zabel  of Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP. “The
Madoff Ponzi scheme was deplorable, and I am deeply saddened by
the tragic impact it continues to have on the lives of its
victims. It is my hope that this settlement will ease that
suffering.”  Picard, a court-appointed trustee, approved 2,232 investor
claims for recovery as of Sept. 30 and rejected 11,171 on the
ground that the claimants took more from their accounts than
they invested. The Picower accord, which needs a bankruptcy
judge’s approval, would recover all of the money that he sought.  “They’re getting the whole thing?” said Madoff investor
Timothy Murray, 58, of Minneapolis. “Wow. That’s great. That’s
wonderful. I’m beginning to think that there’s a real
possibility that Picard could pay all the claims he approved and
there could be extra money.”  Murray said he and his family invested $12 million over two
decades and are among those rejected.  Admitted No Wrongdoing  Picower, his family and related entities, beginning in the
1970s, deposited $619.4 million with Madoff and took out $7.8
billion, according to a forfeiture complaint filed today by
Bharara in federal court in New York. The estate admitted no
wrongdoing in settling the case.  In his will, dated 10 days before he died, Picower left
$200 million in cash to his wife. He also left $25 million to
his daughter, Gabrielle Picower, and about $15 million to 20
other beneficiaries. The unspecified remainder is to go to
charity.  “My late husband was a talented and active investor who
had extraordinary successes in business investments during his
career, which will allow me to make this settlement and return
to the philanthropic work that was so important to Jeffry and
me,”  Barbara Picower  said in the statement.  Picard has filed hundreds of suits against banks, feeder
funds, investors and others alleged to have profited from
Madoff’s decades-long fraud. The $7.2 billion represents the
entire amount that Picard sought in a May 2009 lawsuit claiming
Picower should have known Madoff ran a Ponzi scheme.  Bank Medici  This month, Picard sued Bank Medici AG and its founder,
 Sonja Kohn , as well as Bank Austria,  UniCredit SpA  and dozens of
other parties. He is seeking $19.6 billion from them, which
might triple to $58.8 billion under the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act.  In a settlement announced Dec. 8, the family of Boston
philanthropist  Carl Shapiro  agreed to pay back $625 million in
Madoff profits. Under the agreement, the Shapiros agreed to pay
$550 million to Picard for distribution to Madoff creditors. The
family also agreed to pay $75 million to the Justice Department,
which named Picard as special master to distribute the funds.  The deadline for Picard to file claims expired Dec. 11, the
two-year anniversary of when Madoff confessed the biggest Ponzi
scheme in U.S. history. He is serving a 150-year prison term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington
at   jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 