-- Air Travelers, Drivers in Germany Face Delays After Heavy Overnight Snows
-- B y   M i k e   G a v i n
-- 2010-12-17T11:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/air-travelers-drivers-in-germany-face-delays-after-heavy-overnight-snows.html
Germany’s transportation system dug
itself out this morning after heavy snowfall overnight, as
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG  said it expects a large number of flight
cancellations throughout the day.  The snowfall has created “considerable disturbances” in
European air travel, with  Fraport AG’s  Frankfurt airport among
the hardest hit points, Lufthansa spokesman  Thomas Jachnow  said
by phone.  Fourteen centimeters (5.5 inches) of snow fell at Frankfurt
airport from early evening until early today and as much as 40
centimeters in parts of North Rhine-Westphalia from yesterday
afternoon until this morning, Joerg Meinhold of the German
Weather Service said by phone.  Only 10 of the usual 43 hourly landings at Frankfurt had
been cleared to go ahead as of mid-morning, Jachnow said, citing
snow which has remained on apron and aircraft-parking areas.
Delays and cancellations also occurred in Munich and Berlin,
Jachnow said. Lufthansa expects to avoid cancellations on all
long-haul flights.  Fraport spokesman  Thomas Uber  said runways were clear,
though there have been 222 flight cancellations so far today,
many due to problems at other European airports. The airport’s
 website  showed extensive delays.  Operations were “relatively stable” on Germany’s national
railroad as weather improved, said Kathrin Fellenberg, a
spokeswoman for  Deutsche Bahn AG . Trains were not being
cancelled although the weather has caused delays in many parts
of the country, she said.  Road Traffic  Snowfall and ice caused disruptions to road traffic in many
parts of Germany, especially the southwest and the western state
of North Rhine-Westphalia, according to news reports. Bild
newspaper said treacherous driving conditions caused traffic
jams this morning.  Weather forecasters predicted a gradual improvement in
conditions. “The snow front is still cavorting around in
southern Germany, but we expect it to ebb away during the day,”
Dorothea Petzold, a spokeswoman at the German Weather Service in
Frankfurt, said by phone.  Switzerland’s Zurich Airport was forced to cancel 40
flights as a result of snowfall and expects more disruptions
today, spokeswoman Jasmin Bodmer said by phone.  “Teams have been out clearing runways since last night,”
she said. “There is so much snow that each time they finish
they have to start over.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Mike Gavin  at 
 mgavin2@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  