-- Airbus Works on Final U.S. Air Force Tanker Bid, Claiming Edge on Boeing
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2010-12-17T08:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/airbus-works-on-tanker-bid-with-plane-boeing-says-is-oversized-.html
Airbus Military  said it’s working on
a final bid in the $35 billion U.S. Air Force airborne tanker
contest as it seeks to trump Boeing Co. in a delayed competition
that has already spanned nine years.  Airbus’s defense arm is bullish about winning the order
because its A330 airliner-based model offers greater capability
than Boeing’s 767,  Domingo Urena Raso , the unit’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview in Toulouse, France.  “Our plane is bigger, it has a cabin in which you can do
medical evacuation or transport soldiers or ground crews, and it
provides more fuel capacity, hence flying further and being able
to refuel more fighters,” he said. “You’d otherwise need two or
three different aircraft to perform the same types of mission.”  Boeing said its bid meets all mandatory requirements and
that Airbus’s plane is “oversized.” The Air Force said Nov. 20
it would delay making a choice until early 2011 after mistakenly
disclosing both bidders’ data on combat-mission analysis. Urena
Raso declined to comment on how the proposals might be affected
by the revelations, which didn’t include pricing information.  Airbus is still answering final questions about its plane,
which would carry 270 troops and ground equipment in addition to
fuel, Urena Raso said, and expects the Pentagon to ask for final
bids shortly, ahead of an evaluation period to pick the winner.  Going Solo  The Airbus tanker was originally chosen by the U.S. Air
Force over Boeing’s proposal in 2007, only for the award to be
quashed after its rival contested the decision. While Airbus and
parent  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  were junior
partners to U.S.-based Northrop Grumman Corp. in the initial
contest, this time round they’re competing alone.  Airbus has already beaten Boeing in bids to supply the U.K.
and Australia with refueling planes and can draw on those
designs if it wins the U.S. order, Urena Raso said on Dec. 15.
It also won contests in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates, while Boeing was selected in Japan and Italy.  A tanker destined for Britain’s Royal Air Force this week
made its first contact with a jet fighter using a hose trailing
from the rear fuselage to provide a higher fuel flow than wing-
mounted gear. That completes tests for every combination of
fuelling option, the executive said.  Boeing’s 767-based aircraft would burn 24 percent less fuel
than the Airbus plane while meeting the Pentagon’s 372 bid
requirements, spokesman  William Barksdale  said in an e-mail. The
Chicago-based company’s proposal is based on proven technology
from the KC-10 and KC-135 tankers and will also incorporate
cockpit displays from the new 787 Dreamliner, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  