-- Airbus, Boeing Said to Resist Subsidy Cuts for Backlog
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-12-17T16:11:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/airbus-boeing-said-to-resist-subsidy-cuts-for-orders-backlog.html
Airbus SAS  and Boeing Co. are
pressing governments to exempt hundreds of future plane
deliveries from a draft deal to cut export subsidies, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Boeing  wants customers for the delayed 787 Dreamliner to
continue receiving government-backed financing until 2015 for as
little as a quarter of the premiums for credit guarantees being
proposed, the people said, declining to be identified because
the talks are private. Airbus said it’s seeking concessions
matching whatever Boeing receives.  Any exemptions would undermine efforts by four European
governments, the U.S., Brazil and Canada to scale back export
subsidies on commercial aircraft. With a tentative agreement now
reached to increase the premiums charged for export guarantees,
the exemptions are the main outstanding issue in negotiations
ending today at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in Paris, a diplomat involved in the talks said.  “Commercial financing has opened up again since the last
crisis, so what Airbus and Boeing are really trying to do is
protect themselves against the next one,” said  Yan Derocles , an
aerospace analyst with Paris-based Oddo Securities. “They also
want to avoid having to renegotiate with customers whose
financing terms have changed while they’re still on the waiting
list.”  Compensation Claims  Airlines in the U.S., France, Germany, Spain and U.K.,
countries where Boeing and Airbus build planes, oppose the aid
guarantees, saying they favor rivals such as Dubai-based
Emirates and Ireland’s  Ryanair Holdings Plc . The five
governments’ export-credit agencies refrain from covering sales
of Airbus and Boeing planes to each other’s carriers.  Boeing, based in Chicago, has told government negotiators
it faces increased compensation claims from airlines if the
787’s three-year delay results in higher financing costs,
according to one of the people.  “What we’re looking for is a level playing field for both
the manufacturing and airline sides of the business,” Boeing
spokesman  Charlie Miller  said by telephone, declining to comment
on the talks. “The current system works and has created
stability across the industry.”  Under the tentative deal, governments would reduce the
volume and value of the guarantees by almost doubling the
premiums charged to cover sales of large planes, the people
said. For an investment-grade airline, the one-time fee would
rise to almost 8 percent of the aircraft’s price from 4 percent,
they said.  Order Backlog  “We want an equitable share of grandfathering,” said
 Rainer Ohler , Airbus’ head of government relations, declining to
discuss specifics. “The level playing field must be retained.”  Any draft agreement reached by the close of the talks in
Paris today will be subject to final approval by the governments
in the coming weeks, OECD spokesman  Stephen Di Biasio  said by
telephone. He declined to comment on the negotiations.  Airbus  and Boeing co-signed a letter asking that any
guarantees on their combined order backlog of more than 7,000
planes be maintained at their current premiums for deliveries
through 2013, the diplomat said. Citing the 787 program delays,
Boeing also wants to keep export guarantee charges as low as 2
percent for orders placed before the last premium increase in
2007, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  