-- Airline Repair Station Oversight Under U.S. Review
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2010-12-17T21:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/airline-foreign-repair-station-oversight-under-u-s-review.html
U.S. Transportation Department
inspectors will investigate federal oversight of maintenance
performed for U.S. passenger airlines by outside contractors.  Inspector General  Calvin Scovel , who last year told
Congress that “safety  oversight  and security of repair stations
cannot be ensured,” will open a review of the Federal Aviation
Administration’s oversight of the work, his office said in a
Dec. 16 memo posted on its website.  “While FAA has made a number of procedural changes in
response, it has not addressed our most significant -- and
longstanding -- recommendations to identify repair stations
performing safety-critical repairs and repair stations air
carriers use most often,” Jeffrey B. Guzzetti, assistant
inspector general for aviation and special program audits, said
in the  statement .  U.S. airlines say using outside contractors for maintenance
meets the same safety standards that work performed by their own
employees does.  “We would not have work done on our airplanes at any
facility in the U.S. or outside of the U.S. if we or the FAA
believed it was unsafe,” said  David Castelveter , a spokesman
for the Air Transport Association, the trade group for U.S.
airlines. “We have seen no evidence that any of this work
compromises safety.”  Outsourced work ranges from routine, daily work at some
airports to so-called heavy maintenance that involves checks,
inspections and overhauls of virtually the entire aircraft.  ‘Risk-based Oversight’  During the past five years, the FAA developed a “risk-
based oversight system for repair stations and air carriers that
contract out to maintenance providers,” said Laura J. Brown, a
FAA spokeswoman. “The FAA has the same high safety standards
for aircraft maintenance whether it’s performed by an airline or
by a repair station.”  From 2000 to 2009, U.S. airlines increased spending on
outside contractor maintenance by more than $1.1 billion, an
amount that may rise annually by 4.4 percent over the next 10
years, according to Scovel’s office.  Representative  Jerry Costello , an Illinois Democrat who is
chairman of the House Aviation Subcommittee, requested the
review.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  