-- AUO Gets Taiwan Approval to Build LCD Plant in China
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2010-12-17T11:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/taiwan-approves-au-optronics-s-application-to-build-lcd-factory-in-china.html
AU Optronics Corp.  won approval to
build a $3 billion liquid-crystal display plant in  China , the
first such project by a Taiwan company, as improving ties prompt
the island’s government to relax investment restrictions.  AUO plans to build a so-called 7.5-generation facility in
the Chinese city of Kunshan, Vice Economics Minister  Hwang Jung- chiou  told reporters in Taipei today. The company will need to
obtain China’s approval before it can set up the plant.  The approval will help AUO catch up with rivals such as
 Samsung Electronics Co.  and LG Display Co. that already have
permission to make panels in China, the world’s biggest producer
of televisions and computer monitors. The plant will bring AUO
closer to customers such as Sony Corp. and Sharp Corp. in the
nation and reduce transportation costs.  “This is a ticket to China,” said  Charles Hsu , an analyst
at Fubon Securities Co. in Taipei. “This is a must for AUO
because if it doesn’t enter China, it will lose its
competitiveness because all the rivals are there.”  Taiwan  on Feb. 10 announced it will end a ban on domestic
companies building LCD factories in China and allow chipmakers
to invest as long as they spend more locally and keep their best
technology at home.  Shares  of AUO, Taiwan’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, fell 1.3 percent to close at NT$31 before the
announcement. The stock has lost 20 percent this year, compared
with a 7.7 percent gain in the benchmark  Taiex  index. Chimei
Innolux Corp., the island’s largest LCD maker, rose 0.4 percent
today and has declined 18 percent this year.  China Relations  The easing of rules came as ties between Taiwan and the
mainland reached their warmest in more than 60 years after
President  Ma Ying-jeou  took office in May 2008. Ma dropped his
predecessor’s pro-independence stance and made economic
relations with mainland China a priority. Since then, 14 trade
and cooperation accords have been signed with China and a sixth
round of talks is set for Dec. 20 in Taipei.  The flat-panel maker said in March it applied to the Taiwan
government for approval to build a 7.5-generation factory in
Kunshan, eastern China, at an expected total cost of $3 billion,
with $1.2 billion coming from its own investment. AUO plans to
borrow $1.8 billion from a group of Chinese banks, Taiwan’s
Investment Commission said in a statement today.  Kunshan, west of Shanghai, is 35 kilometers (22 miles) from
Suzhou, where AUO has a factory making modules, or partially
completed displays, and is 50 kilometers from the Songjiang
district of Shanghai, where the company also has a module plant.  “In a highly competitive international market, Taiwanese
panel suppliers now have only very limited time to create the
early-mover competitive advantages in mainland China,” AUO said
in an e-mailed statement today. The company urged the government
to adopt a more lenient industry policy.  Samsung, LG  South Korea’s Samsung and  LG  received permission from their
government in December 2009 to set up factories in China.
Samsung’s plant will use 7.5-generation technology while LG
plans to make an eighth-generation facility.  Samsung and LG, the world’s two-largest LCD makers, said
Dec. 2 they received approval from China’s government to build
factories in Suzhou and Guangzhou, allowing them to be closer to
TV and computer assemblers, and enabling them to cut costs.
Japan’s  Sharp Corp.  said the same day it had not yet received
notification of any approval.  China regards Taiwan as part of its territory and has
threatened to invade if the island declares formal independence.
The two sides have been ruled separately since  Chiang Kai -shek’s
Kuomintang, or Nationalists, fled to the island after being
defeated by  Mao Zedong ’s Communists in 1949.  Trade Agreement  The two sides signed the first trade agreement in June to
reduce tariffs and allow wider access to each other’s markets.
 China Mobile Ltd. , the mainland’s biggest phone company, is
still awaiting Taiwan’s approval to buy a 12 percent stake in
the island’s  Far EasTone Communications Co. . The deal was
announced in April 2009 after Beijing said it would end a ban on
investments in Taiwan.  Taiwan restricts investments in the mainland and its rules
require local companies to have more-advanced LCD factories in
Taiwan before plants can be built in China, a regulation aimed
at keeping technology at home.  AUO  currently operates  an 8.5-generation factory in
Taichung, central Taiwan. Later generations produce bigger
panels, suitable for larger televisions, with an 8.5G facility
making sheets the size of a pool table.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adela Lin  in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
 Janet Ong  at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 