-- Major League Baseball Seeks `Real World Series' With Japan's Champions
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-12-17T00:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/major-league-baseball-seeks-real-world-series-against-japanese-champions.html
Major League Baseball wants a “Real
World Series” against Japan’s champion, and will continue talks
next month on a competition with Nippon Professional Baseball,
said its top official in Asia.  Officials of both leagues will meet in January for a fourth
round of discussions,  Jim Small , MLB’s vice president for Asia,
said at a media conference in Tokyo yesterday. Complicating any
title series schedule would be cold weather, free-agency for MLB
players and competition from other sports for airtime, he said.  “When you really get into the details of it, it’s a
difficult thing to see happening, but we continue to do it,”
Small said. “Not all those things are insurmountable but they
do create some issues.” An NPB spokesman in Tokyo, who didn’t
want to be identified, declined to comment on the talks.  A matchup this year would have pitted teams from the
relatively milder climates of San Francisco and Chiba, east of
Tokyo. Playing late-November games outdoors in cities such as
Boston, Minneapolis or Sendai -- 200 miles (300 kilometers)
north of Japan’s capital -- might be a tough sell to players.  “No!,” replied  Prince Fielder  when Small asked the two-
time All-Star if he’d like to play a series in 32 degrees
Fahrenheit (0 degrees Celsius). Fielder, who was at the media
conference yesterday, is  visiting China  and Japan as part of
MLB’s efforts to promote baseball overseas.  A competition with last year’s World Series winners the New
York Yankees or 2008 champions Philadelphia Phillies would have
meant playing in colder temperatures.  “We’ve literally gone back to look at 10 years of weather
in New York and Philadelphia and other cold weather cities to
see the first snowfall,” Small said.  Missing Players  MLB’s free-agency period was moved forward this year to Nov.
7, its earliest start, Small said. For the San Francisco Giants,
who beat the Texas Rangers in this year’s World Series, that may
have meant playing without first baseman  Aubrey Huff  and
shortstop  Juan Uribe , Small said.  Uribe signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers, while Huff took
a two-year, $22 million  contract  with the Giants on Nov. 23.  The  Chiba Lotte Marines , who won the Japan Series last
month for the first time since taking the title under then
manager  Bobby Valentine  in 2005, might have been without
shortstop Tsuyoshi Nishioka. The 2010 Japan batting champion was
offered to Major League teams under NPB’s so-called posting
system at the end of the season and is in negotiations with the
Minnesota Twins.  The largest challenge is convincing the broadcasters, Small
said. Competition from the National Football League,  National
Basketball Association  and golf pushed the World Baseball
Classic, a tournament including national teams to March. The
next staging will be in March 2013. Japan won the competition in
2006 and 2009.  “We heard that loud and clear from our broadcasters when
we talked about WBC being a November event,” he said. “It’s a
very, very difficult exercise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 