-- Malaysia Considering Plan to Take Over Selangor Water Bonds, Minister Says
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2010-12-17T06:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/malaysia-considering-plan-to-take-over-selangor-water-bonds-minister-says.html
Malaysia’s government is considering
bondholder proposals to avoid defaults by water companies
operating in Selangor state, including possibly taking over the
notes or offering loans, according to the energy minister.  “The government has to look at the viability of these
bonds,”  Peter Chin , Minister of Energy, Green Technology &
Water, said in an interview in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. “This is
so that it will not impact on the overall bond market.”  Some bondholders asked the government to take control of
the bonds, or extend “soft loans” to the Selangor state
government’s water distribution company, Chin said, without
being more specific. Malaysian Rating Corp. downgraded about 7
billion ringgit ($2.2 billion) of bonds issued by seven water-
related companies in September, citing regulatory and
operational uncertainties.  Malaysia’s richest state, controlled by  Anwar Ibrahim’s 
opposition party, hasn’t been able to reach an agreement with
the central government and private companies over reorganization
of the water industry. Selangor, Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya will
face water shortages soon as demand outstrips supply, the Star
newspaper reported in July, citing the central government’s
Economic Planning unit.  The federal government doesn’t object to Selangor’s plan to
buy water assets if it has the financial means to execute it,
Chin said. Implementation “should be done on a willing buyer,
willing seller basis whilst honoring the sanctity of existing
concession agreements,” he said.  Previous bids by Selangor to acquire water assets were
rejected by local water distributors as too low. Though a
revised proposal was accepted by  Syarikat Pengeluar Air Sungai
Selangor Sdn.  and Konsortium Abass Sdn., the transaction failed
when  Syarikat Bekalan Air Selangor Sdn.  and Puncak Niaga (M) Sdn.
continued to hold out for more.  The Malaysian central bank and the Finance Ministry is in
talks with bondholders to “allay their anxiousness,” Chin said.
“Our commitment to ensure the water will keep flowing, that is
something that we will honor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ranjeetha Pakiam  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net . 