-- BorgWarner to Acquire Haldex's All-Wheel-Drive Division for $205 Million
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2010-12-17T22:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/haldex-to-sell-traction-systems-division-to-borgwarner-for-210-million.html
BorgWarner Inc. , the world’s biggest
maker of automatic-transmission parts, agreed to buy Haldex AB’s
traction unit to add all-wheel drive equipment sales in Europe.  The 1.43 billion-krona ($205 million) cash transaction may
contribute less than 5 cents a share to BorgWarner’s annual
profit, said  David Leiker , an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co.
A 5-cent-a-share increase would be about $5.68 million, based on
the company’s shares outstanding as of Oct. 20.  The unit, which sells to  Volvo AB ,  Tata Motors Ltd.’s  Land
Rover and  General Motors Co.’s  Opel, may have more than $205
million in revenue next year, BorgWarner said in a statement.  “It’s strategic, but small,” Leiker, who is based in
Milwaukee, said today in an interview. “This is one of
BorgWarner’s core technologies and this gets them into a region
of the world where they’re underrepresented.”  BorgWarner, based in Auburn Hills, Michigan, is benefiting
as automakers work to make vehicles with higher gas mileage and
lower emissions. Third-quarter  profit  increased sixfold as
demand for turbochargers rose and China’s car industry expanded.
The company bought Vigo, Spain-based Dytech Ensa SL in April,
gaining a manufacturer of exhaust-emission reduction products.  BorgWarner rose 29 cents to $71.05 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . The shares have more than
doubled this year.  Haldex Gain  The sale will result in a 1.1 billion-krona capital gain
for Haldex, the Stockholm-based company said in a statement.
Haldex will use the proceeds for its two remaining divisions and
projects such as acquisitions or return it to shareholders,
Chief Executive Officer  Joakim Olsson  said in an interview.  Haldex’s sale of the traction unit reverses a plan
announced in July to split into three listed companies. The
disposal “will provide superior value to shareholders,” the
company said today.  Nine-month operating profit at the traction business
totaled 87 million kronor on sales of 909 million kronor. The
unit has about 329 employees and factories in Hungary, Sweden
and Mexico, Haldex said.  Auto-parts makers have been involved in 317 acquisitions
announced this year that were completed or still are pending,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The total value of the
transactions is about $12 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janina Pfalzer  in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Clothier  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net .
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 