-- Amazon Offers Kindle-Cover Refunds After Complaints
-- B y   J o s e p h   G a l a n t e   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 2010-12-17T21:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/amazon-offers-kindle-cover-refunds-after-customer-complaints.html
Amazon.com Inc.  is offering refunds
or replacements on a type of cover for its Kindle electronic-
book reader after customers complained that the accessory was
interfering with their ability to use the device.  Engineers are looking into the matter,  Drew Herdener , a
spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon, said in an e-mailed
statement. He didn’t disclose how many products are affected and
said a “small number” of customers had contacted the company.  Users in the company’s online forums complained that a
leather  Amazon-branded cover , which costs $34.99, was causing
the Kindle to freeze and lose track of pages. The  Kindle  is
Amazon’s best-selling item and the refunds come during the
holiday shopping season, the company’s busiest time of year.  “There have been some forum discussions regarding the non-
lighted Kindle cover,” Amazon said in a blog posting yesterday.
For those with the problem, “we will be pleased to replace it
for free or accept a return for a full refund, no matter when
the cover was purchased.”  The Kindle and e-books will account for about 8 percent of
Amazon’s revenue this year, according to estimates by  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co. Amazon doesn’t disclose
Kindle sales.  The  cover , which fits the $139 Wi-Fi-only version of the
Kindle, weighs 13.4 ounces (380 grams), according to the Amazon
site. It comes in seven colors, including black, chocolate brown
and hot pink.  Amazon.com introduced the Wi-Fi-exclusive Kindle in July,
promising a higher-contrast screen, faster page turns and as
long as one month of battery life.  The company slipped 46 cents to $177.58 at 4 p.m. New York
time in  trading  on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares added 32
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net ;
 Greg Bensinger  in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 