-- Amazon Elects HP Palm’s Rubinstein as a Director
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2010-12-17T21:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/amazon-elects-rubinstein-who-runs-hp-s-palm-unit-as-a-director.html
Amazon.com Inc ., the largest online
retailer, appointed  Hewlett-Packard Co .’s  Jon Rubinstein  to its
board, adding expertise in mobile devices as it expands sales of
the Kindle electronic book reader.  Rubinstein, who joined HP when the computer maker purchased
Palm Inc. for $1.2 billion in July, was elected yesterday,
Seattle-based Amazon said today in a regulatory filing.  Rubinstein, who worked under  Steve Jobs  at  Apple Inc .,
joins Amazon as it expands retailing services for mobile phones
and transforms the Kindle into a multibillion-dollar business.
The device and related digital books will generate $5.3 billion
in sales for Amazon in 2012, up from $2.8 billion this year,
according to Caris & Co. estimates.  “Having him on the board would suggest that Amazon is still
focused on the visual media category, from a device and content
point of view, in particular with Kindle,” said  Colin Sebastian ,
an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in San Francisco who has a
“hold” on Amazon. “Maybe there are more enhancements on Kindle
to come.”  Amazon is also branching into other mobile products,
including applications that let customers read digital books on
handheld devices besides the Kindle, and software for the Apple
iPhone that lets users compare prices on products.  Amazon doesn’t break out unit sales or revenue for Kindle.  After his stint at Apple, Rubinstein came out of retirement
to work on Palm’s Pre phone. He became Palm CEO in 2009.  Amazon fell 46 cents to $177.58 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have climbed 32 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  