-- Land Securities Buys Dundee Mall for $220 Million
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2010-12-17T14:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/land-securities-purchases-overgate-mall-in-scotland-for-141-million-pounds.html
Land Securities Group Plc , the
U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust, bought the Overgate
shopping mall in Dundee, Scotland, for 141 million pounds ($220
million) in its biggest purchase since February 2007.  Land Securities purchased the main mall in Scotland’s
fourth-biggest city from a group of investors led by  Lend Lease
Group , Australia’s largest developer, the London-based company
said in a statement today on its  website . The price represents a
yield of close to 6.9 percent, it said.  “We have identified good tenant demand for this modern
center, which dominates the retail offer in Dundee,”  Richard Akers , head of Land Securities’ retail business, said in the
statement. “It will add further value to our portfolio.”  The value of U.K. shopping mall purchases announced or
completed in 2010 is the highest in four years, according to
real estate advisers including Cushman & Wakefield Inc.
Investors are attracted by better income returns than they can
get from cash or government bonds.  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc, the biggest British
retail landlord, agreed last month to pay 1.6 billion pounds in
shares and assumed debt for the Trafford Centre mall in
Manchester, England. That would be the U.K.’s biggest property
transaction. On Dec. 15, Capital Shopping rejected an offer from
Simon Property Group Inc., the largest U.S. mall owner, valuing
the company at 2.9 billion pounds.  Tenants at the 420,000 square-foot (39,000 square-meter)
Dundee mall include Debenhams Plc, the second-largest U.K.
department-store chain, and retailers Primark Stores Ltd. and
Next Plc, Land Securities said.  The property’s other owners were units of Barclays Plc and
Aviva Plc, BG Group Plc’s pension fund, Equitable Life Assurance
Society U.K. and NFU Mutual. The partnership between these
companies and Lend Lease ended Oct. 31.  The mall is the largest property acquisition Land
Securities has made since February 2007, when it bought 30 U.K.
hotels from Accor SA for 439 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 