-- Apax, EQT Partners Said to Bid for Advent's Takko as IPO Remains an Option
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-12-17T18:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/apax-eqt-partners-said-to-bid-for-advent-s-takko-as-ipo-remains-an-option.html
Private-equity firms Apax Partners
LLP and EQT Partners AB handed in bids for German discount
clothing retailer Takko Holding GmbH, which is being sold by
Advent International Corp., said two people with knowledge of
the talks.  The offers, which were made earlier this week, value Takko
at between 1.25 billion euros ($1.64 billion) and 1.35 billion
euros, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private. Advent is also still preparing an initial
public offering of Takko and hasn’t yet decided whether to sell
or list the Telgte-based company, the people said.  Advent, manager of a 6.6 billion-euro leveraged buyout
fund, is selling Takko after buying the clothier for 770 million
euros in 2007. Takko, which operates more than 1,400 stores and
plans to open about 150 more a year as it expands in eastern
Europe, has annual sales of more than 900 million euros and
10,800 employees, according to the company.  Spokesmen for London-based Apax and EQT, based in
Stockholm, didn’t immediately return phone calls seeking
comment. Spokesmen for Advent and Takko declined to comment.  Takko may be valued at about 8 times annual earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of about 160
million euros, the people said. If the private-equity firm
chooses to pursue an IPO, Takko may be listed in the first
quarter of next year, one of the people said.  Leveraged Buyouts  PAI Partners and TPG Capital, which were bidding jointly,
previously dropped out of the auction, the people said.  Leveraged buyout firms like Apax and EQT pool money from
investors to take over companies, financing their purchases
mostly with debt, with the intention of selling them later for a
profit. Buyout firms seek to expand or improve performance at
companies they acquire before selling them within about five
years.  Apax’s investments include stakes in TDC A/S, Denmark’s
biggest telephone company, and Hit Entertainment Ltd., a
children’s entertainment company that owns Thomas the Tank
Engine and Bob the Builder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  