-- Larry King Hands CNN Mike to Morgan After 40,000 Interviews
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2010-12-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/larry-king-hands-cnn-mike-to-morgan-after-40-000-interviews.html
Larry King , who dominated prime-time
cable news before falling behind Bill O’Reilly of Fox News and
MSNBC’s  Keith Olbermann , ended his 25-year run at CNN with an
interview of former President  Bill Clinton .  “Welcome to the last Larry King Live,” said King, 77, to
open his final show last night, with guest-hosts  Ryan Seacrest 
and Bill Maher. “It’s awfully hard to say that.”  “Larry King Live” was cable’s top-rated news show for
most of the 1990s, according to Nielsen Co. data. It first aired
in June 1985 and by 1998 was reaching 1.6 million viewers a
night for  Time Warner Inc. ’s CNN. King, who once hosted a radio
talk show for Mutual Radio, interviewed every U.S. president
since  Gerald Ford  in 1974, according to CNN’s website.  “Larry King put CNN on the map,” said  Brad Adgate , senior
vice president for New York advertising firm Horizon Media and a
former research manager at CNN. “But he’s not as relevant today
when other cable networks have created personalities like
O’Reilly. At CNN, the news is still the personality.”  During the show, King was bid farewell by a list of
celebrities he had interviewed, including Donald Trump,  Regis Philbin  and President  Barack Obama , who called the host “one of
the giants of broadcasting.”  British television personality  Piers Morgan , a one-time
editor of the News of the World, will succeed King in January.  “Larry King Live” is averaging 669,000 viewers a night
this year, behind “The O’Reilly Factor,” with 1.5 million
viewers for  News Corp. ’s Fox News and “Countdown with Keith
Olbermann” on  NBC Universal ’s MSNBC, with 954,000 viewers,
according to Nielsen Co. data.  MSNBC saluted King in a USA Today advertisement that called
him “one of a kind.” The CNN rival also thanked King “for
everything you’ve done to advance cable news.”  Wearing his trademark suspenders, King interviewed more
than 40,000 guests, CNN said on its website.  Free Trade Debate  King hosted a 1993 debate between Vice President  Al Gore 
and Ross Perot on the North American Free Trade Agreement that
was seen by 16.3 million viewers, a record for cable TV until a
New England Patriots-Baltimore Ravens NFL game in 2007, Adgate
said.  “King has transformed himself into a household name,”
California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  said in a statement,
proclaiming “Larry King Day.”  King announced on July 14 that he would end his show. He
has said he intends to do specials for CNN and is also serving
as the spokesman for the Brooklyn Water Bagel Co.  Seacrest, who hosts “American Idol” and a morning radio
show, said he and King are in discussing a joint venture about
which he didn’t elaborate.  Morgan was named King’s replacement in September. CNN said
it will run best-of Larry King episodes through year-end, and
 Anderson Cooper  will add an hour to his nightly show until
“Piers Morgan Tonight” begins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ronald Grover  in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Anthony Palazzo  at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  