-- Marshall & Ilsley Bonds Soar to Record With BMO Takeover Spurring M&A Bets
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-12-17T19:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/marshall-ilsley-bonds-soar-to-record-after-bank-of-montreal-acquisition.html
Bonds from  Marshall & Ilsley Corp. ,
the Milwaukee-based bank being acquired by Bank of Montreal,
soared to the highest on record, leading a rally in the debt of
regional lenders as investors wager takeovers will accelerate.  Marshall & Ilsley’s $300 million of 5 percent subordinated
notes due January 2017 climbed 15 cents on the dollar to 102.75
cents as of 12:15 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Investors in the debt of banks from First Horizon National
Corp. to Huntington Bancshares Inc. may benefit from mergers and
acquisitions among lenders, driven by depressed stock prices and
strengthening balance sheets, according to debt research firm
CreditSights Inc.  “Bank M&A is starting to show some life, with the weaker
banks getting absorbed by the stronger banks,” said  Pri de Silva , an analyst at CreditSights in New York, in a telephone
interview. “You’re seeing the bond prices reflecting that, and
the credit ratings of the target companies should see multi-
notch upgrades when deals happen.”  Moody’s Investors Service is weighing whether to raise
Marshall & Ilsley’s senior debt ranking, the rating company said
today in a report after the acquisition was announced. It had
been considering whether to cut the Baa1 grade, citing “ongoing
weakness” in the bank’s commercial and residential real estate
holdings. Moody's said Marshall & Ilsley's credit grades ``would
likely be upgraded.'' Bank of Montreal has a higher debt ranking.  Average Spreads  First Horizon’s $500 million of 5.375 percent notes due
December 2015 climbed 0.48 cent to 100.76 cents on the dollar,
while Huntington Bancshares’ $300 million of 7 percent debt
maturing in December 2020 rose 1.4 cents to 104.7 cents, Trace
data show.  First Horizon, in Memphis, Tennessee; and Columbus, Ohio-
based Huntington Bancshares both sold debt this week to help
fund repayment of borrowings under the Treasury Department’s
Troubled Asset Relief Program.  The extra yield investors demand to own bonds from U.S.
banks instead of Treasuries has narrowed 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, to 219 basis points this month, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Average spreads in
the broader investment-grade corporate bond market tightened 12
basis points, the index data show.  Bank of Montreal agreed to pay 0.1257 of its own stock for
each share of Marshall & Ilsley to expand its Chicago-based
Harris Bank, Canada’s fourth-biggest lender said today in a
statement. The deal values Marshall & Ilsley at $7.75 a share,
34 percent higher than yesterday’s closing price of $5.79 on the
New York Stock Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  