-- Las Vegas General-Obligation Bond Rating Is Reduced to Aa2 by Moody's
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-12-17T21:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/las-vegas-debt-rating-cut-by-moody-s-as-tourism-slump-hurts-casino-revenue.html
Las Vegas,  Nevada ’s largest city and
the biggest U.S. gambling center, had its credit rating cut by
Moody’s Investors Service, which cited lower visitor spending.  The one-step reduction to Aa2, third-highest, affects $397
million in limited-tax general-obligation debt, Moody’s said
today in a report. Also citing lower property-tax revenue,
Moody’s said visitor volume fell 3 percent in 2009, the second-
straight annual drop. Lease debt of $188 million also was cut.  “As a result of decreased travel to the Las Vegas
metropolitan area and diminished spending once there, gaming and
related industries are experiencing a serious downturn,” said
Patrick Ford, Dan Steed and  Matthew A. Jones  in the report. They
said 2.8 percent more visitors came to the city this year
through October.  One in 86 households was subject to foreclosure proceedings
last month in the Las Vegas metropolitan area, the most for a
U.S. city with more than 200,000 residents, RealtyTrac Inc. said
yesterday in a report. Nevada had the nation’s highest rate of
foreclosure filing for the 47th straight month in November, at
one in every 99 households, the Irvine, California-based data
company said. That was up 22 percent from a year earlier.  Projecting a “prolonged recession” for the local economy,
where unemployment was an estimated 14.1 percent in October, the
analysts said taxable property values fell 45 percent in the
past two years. That put Las Vegas “well below the national Aa1
rated city median,” the analysts said.  Lease-revenue debt of $188 million tied to a City Hall
project was lowered to Aa3 from Aa2, Moody’s said. The company
revised its outlook for Las Vegas to stable because the city has
an above-average repayment rate.  “The stable rating outlook recognizes that the city has
thus far weathered the effects of the national and local
recession,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  