-- Grupo Mexico Claims EPA Lied to Judge, Hid Evidence in Lead Pollution Case
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2010-12-18T03:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/asarco-claims-epa-lied-destroyed-evidence-in-nebraska-lead-pollution-case.html
A U.S. unit of  Grupo Mexico SAB ,
Mexico’s biggest mining company, accused the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency of destroying evidence showing a company
smelter didn’t cause lead pollution in Omaha, Nebraska.  The unit,  Asarco LLC,  paid $215 million last year to settle
allegations its operations contaminated the Omaha Lead Superfund
site. A U.S. judge in Washington ruled against the company’s bid
to get more information from the EPA on the strength of the
agency’s assertions that Asarco’s smelter was the only possible
source of the pollution, the company said in court papers.  The company yesterday asked U.S. District Judge  Emmet G. Sullivan  to vacate his order. Asarco got copies of e-mails in
which EPA employees discussed destroying a newer contamination
survey indicating the Omaha site was most likely polluted by
peeling lead house paint, and not smelter emissions, the
company’s attorney,  Gregory Evans , said in a phone interview.  “We’re alleging fraud and misconduct by the EPA, and we’ve
got a smoking gun to prove it,” Evans said. “We’ve got e-mail
after e-mail where the EPA says to destroy documents and the e-
mails discussing them, because they’d be subject to a Freedom of
Information Act request.”  Evans said the company filed repeated requests in 2008,
asking the EPA for any newer contamination-source studies at the
Omaha site. The agency sought to hold Asarco solely liable for
more than $400 million in cleanup expenses at the property,
although the company’s experts said their studies showed the
lead hadn’t come from a smelter.  Asarco Lawsuit  In December 2009, Asarco paid a total of $1.8 billion to
resolve air and water pollution allegations at more than 100
sites in the U.S., including the one in Omaha. The payment
marked the resolution of the largest environmental bankruptcy in
U.S. history, according to the EPA.  Asarco, which was formed in 1899 as American Smelting and
Refining Co., filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors in
2005 after the EPA and property owners sought roughly $3 billion
in cleanup and compensation for lands polluted by operations the
company owned or once operated.  In August 2008, Tucson, Arizona-based Asarco sued the EPA
to compel it to search agency files for a more recent study on
sources of lead at the site.  ‘Nothing Else’  “In affidavit after affidavit,” an EPA project manager
“swore there was nothing else,” Evans said. “Judge Sullivan
dismissed the case based in large part on those assertions,” he
said.  Asarco’s filing attaches copies of several internal EPA
e-mails in which the agency’s regional project manager instructs
coworkers to destroy documents to prevent having to turn them
over during litigation. Those documents included “records of
discussions between EPA managers and experts concluding that
EPA’s air modeling did not and could not support EPA’s
allegations regarding the cause’’ of contamination at the Omaha
site, according to the filing.  Sullivan didn’t see these messages during Asarco’s 2008
lawsuit, as the EPA failed to produce them until this year, when
it was compelled to hand them over in a different case over the
same site, Evans said.  “If the court had no reason to doubt the integrity of the
agency’s representations at that time, it certainly has such a
reason now,’’ Evans said in the filing. “It is clear now” that
the regional manager’s and “EPA’s representations were wholly
unreliable and that there definitely was a genuine issue of
material fact as to whether the agency told the truth.”  EPA spokeswoman Stacy Kika today referred all questions to
the Justice Department.  ‘Reviewing’ Filing  “We’re aware of the filing and are reviewing it,” Justice
Department spokesman Wyn Hornbuckle said in a phone interview
today. “We will respond appropriately in court.”  In a separate lawsuit in federal court in Nebraska, Union
Pacific Railroad Co., which the EPA also blamed for the
pollution at the Omaha site, refused to settle and sued the
agency seeking the same contamination studies that Asarco had
requested.  Under a court order in that case, the EPA produced in
August internal records which Asarco said show the EPA project
manager “had been deliberately destroying potentially
responsive documents and directing other EPA staff to do the
same” to keep them out of the lawsuit, according to yesterday’s
filing.  Document Destruction  The judge in the Nebraska case barred the EPA from
destroying any documents related to the region surrounding Omaha
until the dispute is resolved, Evans said.  Asarco asked Sullivan in yesterday’s filing to revisit his
ruling dismissing the company’s Freedom of Information Act case,
which affected its decision to settle with the EPA last year.  “If we’d had proof of the EPA ordering critical evidence
destroyed, Asarco would’ve never paid that kind of money” to
settle the Omaha lead claims, Evans said.  The case is Asarco Inc. v. U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, 1:08-cv-01332, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella in New York at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 