-- Asian Stocks Gain as China Refrains From Raising Rates, U.S. Data Improves
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-17T22:19:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/asian-stocks-gain-this-week-as-china-refrains-from-raising-rate.html
Asian  stocks  rose for the second
week this month, as steelmakers led gains, after China refrained
from raising interest rates and U.S. data improved.  BlueScope Steel Ltd., Australia’s largest steelmaker,
advanced 9.1 percent in Sydney.  Honda Motor Co. , which counts
North America as its biggest market, gained 3 percent in Tokyo.
 China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. , controlled by the
nation’s construction ministry, lost 2.9 percent after a report
that China will toughen controls in the property market. HSBC
Holdings Plc, Europe’s largest lender, lost 1.7 percent in Hong
Kong after Moody’s Investors Service put Spain and Greece’s
credit rating on review.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  climbed 0.4 percent to 133.59
this week. The gauge closed up on three days this week, and rose
the most on Dec. 13, after China refrained from raising interest
rates to cool inflation, and U.S. reports on consumer confidence,
the trade deficit and claims for jobless benefits beat forecasts.  “Fears of an interest rate increase in China have not come
to fruition so far,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1
billion in Melbourne at Pengana Capital Ltd. “There’s a sense
of relief in markets. This may be only temporary as Chinese
authorities become increasingly concerned about the possibility
of inflationary pressures undermining the economy’s longer-term
growth prospects.”  Regional Benchmarks  In Japan, the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  gained 0.9 percent,
its seventh straight weekly advance and its longest winning
streak since the eight-week period ended April 2. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.4 percent. South Korea’s  Kospi index 
rose 2 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 1.9 percent while the
 Shanghai Composite Index  rose 1.9 percent this week. India’s
Sensitive Index rose 1.8 percent. The measure was closed on Dec.
17 for a holiday.  Steelmakers led gains this week, with a gauge tracking
material shares rising 1 percent, the most among the 10 industry
groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific index.  BlueScope Steel , which receives 22 percent of its sales
from Asia, rose 9.1 percent to A$2.29 in Sydney. JFE Holdings
Inc., Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, rose 2.7 percent to
2,836 yen in Tokyo. JSW Steel Ltd., an Indian producer of the
metal, jumped 12 percent to 1,164.75 rupees in Mumbai.  While China’s inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in
28 months in November, building the case for Premier  Wen Jiabao 
to raise interest rates, China instead ordered lenders on Dec.
10 to park more money with the central bank to counter the
inflation threat.  Effective Tool  “The government seems to be using reserve requirements at
the moment as a more effective tool,”  Hugh Simon , co-manager of
the Dreyfus Greater China Fund, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “They need to have some relief about inflation. The
market is not expensive.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  has risen 11 percent this year,
with stocks on the gauge valued at 14.8 times  estimated earnings 
on average, compared with 23 times at the start of the year.  Exporters to the U.S. gained after improving data from the
world’s biggest economy boosted confidence the recovery was
continuing.  Honda, Japan’s second-largest automaker by market value,
gained 3 percent to 3,235 yen this week. Canon Inc., the world’s
largest camera maker, climbed 1 percent to 4,145 yen.  James
Hardie Industries SE , the biggest seller of home siding in the
U.S., increased 2.5 percent to A$6.68 in Sydney.  Consumer Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers increased more than
forecast in December to the highest level in six months at the
same time Americans began stepping up holiday spending. The
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of
consumer sentiment rose to 74.2 from 71.6 at the end of November.
Economists projected a December reading of 72.5, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  A Commerce Department report showed the U.S. trade deficit
shrank to $38.7 billion in October, less than the lowest
estimate of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the
smallest since January.  The number of U.S. workers filing first-time claims for
unemployment benefits unexpectedly declined last week, pointing
to a labor market that is on the mend. Applications for jobless
insurance payments decreased by 3,000 to 420,000, the lowest in
three weeks, Labor Department figures showed. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey projected a median rise in claims to 425,000.  U.S. Employment  China Overseas Land slid 2.9 percent to HK$14.58. China
Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer, declined 1.6
percent to HK$13.54.  Guangzhou R&F Properties Co. , the biggest
builder in the southern Chinese city, dropped 1.9 percent to
HK$10.64.  China will strengthen controls in the real-estate market
and curb speculative investment from next year through 2015,
Xinhua News Agency reported on Dec. 16, citing China’s Ministry
of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  “The next curb on property is likely to be a unit tax,”
said  Andrew Sullivan , director of institutional sales at OSK
Securities Hong Kong Ltd. “Some investors are locking in gains
running to year end.”  HSBC Holdings , which receives 36 percent of its revenue in
Europe, slid 1.7 percent to HK$80.15 in Hong Kong. Li & Fung
Ltd., which is the biggest supplier to Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
gets 27 percent of its sales from Europe, dropped 2.3 percent to
HK$43.80.  Spain’s credit rating may be cut from Aa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service on concern about rising borrowing costs,
potential losses in the banking system and deficits in the
country’s regions, the ratings agency said on Dec. 15.  Moody’s also put Greece’s Ba1 bond ratings on review for a
possible downgrade, citing heightened concerns about whether the
country will be able to reduce its debt to “sustainable
levels,” and Ireland’s credit rating was cut five levels by
Moody’s on Dec. 17, after the government last month was forced
to ask for external aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 