-- Stocks Decline, Irish Bonds Retreat on Moody's Rating Cut; Copper Advances
-- B y   D a n i e l   T i l l e s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-17T17:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/asian-stocks-snap-two-day-drop-on-u-s-recovery-signs-copper-euro-gain.html
Stocks in Europe dropped, U.S.
shares swung between gains and losses and Irish bonds slumped
after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Ireland’s credit
rating. Copper and oil rose following improving economic data.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.4 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index pared its retreat to less than 0.1
percent at 12:42 p.m. New York time. The yield on the Irish 10-
year Irish bond rose to 8.60 percent, the highest since Dec. 2,
and German bund yields fell. Credit-default swaps insuring Irish
debt climbed for a third day, the longest streak this month.
Copper futures rose 0.8 percent, while sugar climbed to a five-
week high on supply concerns.  Portuguese bonds also fell as Ireland’s credit rating was
cut five levels to Baa1 from Aa2 by Moody’s, with further
downgrades possible, as the government struggled to contain
losses in the country’s banking system. European Union leaders
are meeting in Brussels after agreeing yesterday to create a
permanent crisis-management mechanism.  “You see this constant back and forth in Europe,” said
 John Praveen , the Newark, New Jersey-based chief investment
strategist at Prudential International Investments Advisers LLC,
which oversees $690 billion. “There’s still concern about
credit downgrades even as European policy makers try to provide
some relief.”  AstraZeneca Drops  The  Stoxx 600  slipped amid the expiration of futures and
options on European stocks and equity indexes, known as triple
witching. The process occurs every three months and can add to
market volatility. AstraZeneca Plc tumbled 6.7 percent after
failing to win U.S. approval for a blood thinner to rival
Plavix, the world’s second-best selling drug.  SAP AG rose 1.6 percent after its U.S. competitor Oracle
Corp. forecast better-than-estimated earnings for this quarter.
MAN SE, Europe’s third-largest maker of commercial vehicles,
gained 2 percent after Chief Financial Officer  Frank Lutz  said
in an interview that 2010 truck deliveries will probably top an
earlier prediction.  The S&P 500 retreated after yesterday climbing 0.6 percent
to its highest level since September 2008. Its recent rally
lifted the index’s valuation to more than 15.5 times reported
earnings, the highest since June.  Merck & Co. and Pfizer Inc. led losses in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, dropping at least 1.1 percent. Oracle, the
second-largest software maker, gained 5.5 percent. Marshall &
Ilsley Corp. rallied 18 percent after Bank of Montreal agreed to
buy the company.  U.S. equities maintained losses after the Conference Board
said its index of leading economic indicators rose 1.1 percent
in November, the most in eight months.  Asian, Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.2 percent as technology
and finance companies advanced on the outlook for earnings.
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s second-biggest maker of
mobile phones, climbed 1.7 percent in Seoul after Canada’s
Research In Motion Ltd., the maker of BlackBerry handsets,
reported earnings that beat estimates. RIMM climbed 2.1 percent
in U.S. trading.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  rose 0.2 percent. Turkey’s
ISE 100 National Index fell 1.4 percent as the central bank
reduced the benchmark lending rate to a record low.  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold Irish
10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity benchmark German debt
 increased  11 basis points to 533 basis points, widening for a
second day. The yield on the German bund slipped four basis
points to 3.03 percent, while the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield
fell four basis points to 3.38 percent.  Irish Default Swaps  Ireland led an increase in the cost of insuring European
government debt. Credit-default swaps tied to Ireland’s bonds
climbed 15 basis points to 575, the highest level since Nov. 30.
Confidence in the region’s banks was also hurt, with the
subordinated Markit iTraxx Financial Index up 22.5 basis points
at 328, JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices show.  Copper climbed 0.8 percent to $4.1475 a pound in New York.
The Munich-based Ifo institute said its business climate index
increased 109.9 from 109.3 in November. That’s the highest since
records for a reunified Germany began in 1991. Germany is the
third-largest copper user, after China and the  Sugar rose 3.8 percent to 32.17 cents a pound in New York,
heading for the biggest weekly gain in more than two months, as
lower production from Brazil, the world’s largest grower, may
signal a record harvest is nearing an end. Coffee jumped to the
highest in 13 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Tilles  in London at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 