-- Asian Currencies Decline as Yields Surge in U.S. on Improved Economic Data
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2010-12-17T21:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/asian-currencies-complete-weekly-loss-as-yields-surge-in-u-s-.html
Asian currencies had a second weekly
loss as the highest U.S. Treasury yields in seven months and
improving economic data out of the world’s largest economy
damped sentiment toward emerging-market assets.  The difference in yields between 10-year bonds in the
Philippines and the U.S. shrank this week to the least in almost
three years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
corresponding  gap  for South Korean debt was at the lowest level
since April. The number of U.S. workers filing first-time claims
for jobless benefits decreased to a three-week low, while
 housing starts  rose 3.9 percent in November from a month earlier,
separate government reports showed on Dec. 16.  “The rising U.S. yields means Asia’s higher-yielding
assets become less attractive, weighing on regional
currencies,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at
Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo. “We have seen some good U.S.
economic data boosting demand for the dollar as well.”  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar  Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies, dropped 0.5 percent this
week to 114.68. The Philippine peso weakened 1.2 percent to
44.23 per dollar, South Korea’s won slid 0.8 percent to 1,152.58
and the Singapore dollar lost 0.4 percent to S$1.3125, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark  10-year yield  on U.S. Treasuries touched 3.56
percent on Dec. 16, the highest level since May 13.  ‘Unwinding Positions’  The peso had its worst week since the five-day period ended
Nov. 12 on speculation overseas investors are paring bets the
currency will rise as the central bank regulates the
availability of dollars.  Governor  Amando Tetangco  said on Nov. 9 policy makers will
curb excess volatility in the spot market after the peso surged
to a two-year high five days earlier. The currency has dropped 2
percent since his statement. The monetary authority typically
sells dollars to banks through currency swaps to control the
supply of pesos in the financial system.  “There were a lot of foreign players who shorted the
dollar and are now unwinding positions as the year comes to an
end,” said  Antonio Espedido , treasurer at China Banking Corp.
in Manila. “The central bank is controlling the supply of
dollars and that is why you have this pressure on the peso.”  Bank Levy  The won completed a second consecutive weekly loss after
Yonhap Infomax reported that South Korea may impose a bank levy
on lenders’ short- and long-term overseas debt. The government
may unveil details of the plan on Dec. 19, Deputy Finance
Minister Shin Je Yoon said.  “The market view is the levy will be on foreign debt,
which could potentially point to tighter dollar liquidity,”
 Frances Cheung , a Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB, said. “But we believe the market is prepared,
given that the plan has been flagged for some time.”  Singapore’s dollar dropped for a second straight week as
exports grew at the slowest pace in a year in November. Non-oil
domestic exports climbed 10 percent from a year earlier, after a
34.5 percent gain in October, the trade promotion agency said
yesterday.  Elsewhere this week, the Indian rupee dropped 0.7 percent
to 45.355 per dollar and Thailand’s baht declined 0.2 percent to
30.13. Indonesia’s rupiah slipped 0.1 percent to 9,035, China’s
yuan was little changed at 6.6560 per dollar and Malaysia’s
ringgit was steady at 3.1350. Taiwan’s dollar added 0.3 percent
to NT$30.51.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  