-- Massey Said to Consider Takeover of International Coal, May Sell Company
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-12-17T21:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/massey-energy-said-to-consider-takeover-of-international-coal.html
Massey Energy Co. , owner of the
Upper Big Branch mine where 29 people died in April, is studying
options ranging from a sale of the company to a takeover of
 Wilbur Ross ’s  International Coal Group Inc. , according to three
people with knowledge of the matter.  Talks with International Coal, which first started this
summer, began again following the Dec. 3 announcement that
Massey Chief Executive Officer  Don Blankenship  will retire Dec.
31, said the people who asked not to be named because the talks
are private.  The talks stalled in July and August after International
Coal’s CEO  Ben Hatfield  expressed reservations about working
again for Massey, the people said. Hatfield was employed for 23
years at Massey. He was executive vice president and chief
operating officer there from June 1998 to the end of 2001.  Ross, 73, held an  initial public offering  for International
Coal in December 2005. He is its second-largest shareholder with
about 12.2 million shares. International Coal has a  market value 
of $1.4 billion compared with Massey’s value of $5.2 billion.  International Coal controls 1.1 billion tons of coal
reserves, some of which includes the steelmaking form. The
company’s mines are in Illinois, Kentucky, West Virginia,
Maryland and Virginia.  Renewed Interest  Blankenship’s departure has also renewed interest from
 ArcelorMittal SA , the world’s biggest steelmaker, said the
people. Arcelor, which has hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to advise
on the Massey situation, previously assumed Blankenship would
block any effort to sell the company, said the people.  International Coal rose 2 cents to $7 a share in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. Massey climbed 46 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $51.14.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc.  has maintained its interest in
acquiring Massey and is one of the options being considered by
the board, the people said. At least two other coal-mining
companies are interested in Massey, said the people.  Telephone and e-mail messages weren’t immediately returned
by Massey. Ross Mazza, a spokesman for International Coal,
declined to comment, as did Bill Steers, a spokesman for
Arcelor.  Ted Pile , a spokesman for Abingdon, Virginia-based
Alpha, also declined to comment.  Strategic Review  With Blankenship about to depart, the Richmond, Virginia-
based company’s  board  is running the strategic review, said the
people. The board is expected to move slowly and may take months
to conclude whether to sell the company, buy a smaller rival or
maintain the status quo, said the people.  Blankenship, who’d been with Massey for 28 years, emerged
as the face of the company in public disagreements with U.S.
regulators following the mine accident, the worst in the U.S. in
40 years. He also had confrontations with the United Mine
Workers of America. His departure may mean the company is under
less pressure from shareholders and other outsiders to sell,
said two of the people.  “Any company right now that’s considering potentially
selling itself is going to want to make sure it’s a deliberate
process, given that there’s a lot of merger-and-acquisition and
M&A potential going on globally,” said  Jeremy Sussman , an
analyst at Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York.  Advisers Retained  The company’s board said last month that a special
committee will review strategic alternatives “to enhance
shareholder value.” Perella Weinberg Partners LP was retained
as financial adviser and Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP as legal
adviser for the committee, the board said after its Nov. 21
meeting at the Greenbrier Resort in White Sulphur Springs, West
Virginia. UBS AG is advising the company.  Many of the merger inquiries came earlier this year after
the April 5 accident at the Upper Big Branch mine near Montcoal,
West Virginia. The mishap was the worst U.S. coal mining
disaster in 40 years.  The company has 2.8 billion tons of reserves, 1.3 billion
of which are metallurgical coal, used to produce steel.
Benchmark prices for that grade of coal have soared to $209 a
metric ton for the three-month contract ending Dec. 31, 62
percent higher than a year earlier, driven by demand from China
and India.  Scarcity of metallurgical coal reserves and the higher
prices have spurred mergers and acquisitions within the coal
industry this year, Sussman said.  Walter, Western  Walter Energy Inc. , a southern Appalachia producer of
steelmaking coal, agreed to buy Canada’s Western Coal Corp. this
month for C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion) to add reserves and boost
production of the commodity.  Riversdale Mining Ltd. , an Australian developer of coal
mines in Africa, said Dec. 6 that it held talks with Rio Tinto
Group on a potential A$3.5 billion ($3.46 billion) takeover
proposal.  The average premium for coal-industry deals announced this
year is 26 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Massey reported a quarterly loss of $41.4 million in the third
quarter, citing reduced production and higher costs because of
increased regulatory scrutiny.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 