-- AstraZeneca Shares Fall Most Since 2008 on Brilinta
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2010-12-17T16:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/astrazeneca-fails-to-win-u-s-regulator-approval-for-plavix-rival-brilinta.html
AstraZeneca Plc  fell the most in
more than two years in London trading after the U.K. drugmaker
failed to win U.S. approval for a new blood thinner to rival
Plavix, the world’s second-best selling drug.  The stock dropped 212 pence, or 6.7 percent, to 2,941
pence, the steepest decline since Nov. 21, 2008, and the worst
performance today on the 18-company  Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index .  The Food and Drug Administration asked for additional
analysis of a study called Plato comparing Brilinta with Plavix
in patients with severe chest pain or earlier heart attacks,
London-based AstraZeneca said yesterday in a statement. The
twice-daily pill won a 7-1 recommendation from an FDA advisory
panel on July 28 although all committee members had expressed
concern about study results in the U.S., where many patients
were also receiving high-dose aspirin.  “This is bad news for AstraZeneca,”  Eric Le Berrigaud , an
analyst at Raymond James in Paris, who today lowered his
recommendation on the stock to “fair-value” from “buy,” said
in a telephone interview. “Brilinta is the biggest growth
driver in AstraZeneca’s pipeline and it’s taking a hit.”  The FDA’s decision delays a product whose  sales  may have
reached $2.7 billion by 2015, according to the average estimate
of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. AstraZeneca, the U.K.’s
second-biggest drugmaker, needs new products as patents expire
in the next four years on the heartburn drug Nexium and the
antipsychotic Seroquel, which  generated  a combined $9.83 billion
in revenue last year.  ‘Disappointment’  “This delay will come as a disappointment to many and may
also start to raise uncertainties about the potential scale of
the product’s likely commercial success,”  Jeffrey Holford , an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in London, wrote in a
note to clients today. Holford rates the stock a “hold.”  Regulators didn’t ask for new clinical trials for the drug,
known by its chemical name, ticagrelor, and “our highest
priority is to provide the requested Plato analyses to the
FDA,”  Martin Mackay , AstraZeneca’s president of research and
development, said in the company’s statement.  “The company remains confident in the submission for
ticagrelor and in its ability to respond to the agency’s
questions,” AstraZeneca said in the statement.  Before today, the drugmaker had gained 8.3 percent this
year, compared with the 7.1 percent increase recorded in the
period by the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceuticals Index .  Rival Treatments  Brilinta would compete with Plavix from New York-based
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.  and Paris-based  Sanofi-Aventis SA , and
Effient, sold by  Eli Lilly & Co.  All three are pills designed to
prevent platelets in the blood from clumping together to form
clots, which can cause heart attacks and strokes. Plavix and
Effient are taken daily and remain effective for one week after
treatment is halted. Brilinta wears off more quickly, so it may
pose a lower risk of bleeding for surgery patients.  In Plato, AstraZeneca’s key study of 18,624 people, 9.8
percent of patients on Brilinta for a year had a heart attack,
stroke or died from cardiovascular disease, compared with 11.7
percent of those on Plavix. A related study also showed
AstraZeneca’s medicine was effective regardless of the patients’
genetic makeup, unlike Plavix, which doesn’t work in patients
with a certain genetic variation.  Study participants in the U.S. and Canada did worse on
Brilinta than people from other parts of the world. In backing
the drug, the FDA’s advisers said in July the findings may be
the result of chance and could be examined in a new trial after
approval. FDA staff rejected AstraZeneca’s suggestion that
higher U.S. aspirin use contributed to the outcome.  Delayed Once  FDA approval of Brilinta already had been delayed once, in
September. The exact reason for this additional delay is
unclear, Tim Anderson and other analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein
wrote in a note to clients today. They have a “market-perform”
recommendation on AstraZeneca shares.  Brilinta was approved this month in Europe, where it is
known as Brilique. AstraZeneca will likely begin marketing the
drug in the second half of 2011 once prices are negotiated with
member countries, Sarah Lindgreen, a company spokeswoman, said
Dec. 6.  AstraZeneca will market the drug based on the results of
the study that showed a benefit over Plavix, Lindgreen said.  Plavix, introduced in 1997, had sales of $9.8 billion last
year. Effient, approved in July 2009 with a boxed warning on
bleeding risk, made $27 million last year for Indianapolis-based
Lilly and its marketing partner,  Daiichi Sankyo Co.  of Tokyo.  Lipitor, a cholesterol pill made by New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. , is the world’s best-selling drug with 2009 revenue of
$11.4 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  