-- Atlanta Pension Fund Rescue Will Assume Lower Return Rate, Adviser Says
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2010-12-17T11:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/atlanta-pension-fund-rescue-will-assume-lower-return-rate-adviser-says.html
Atlanta, which runs the world’s
busiest airport, may lower the assumed rate of return on pension
assets as it confronts a $1.5 billion deficit in the funds.  An advisory board developing the city’s options is basing
them on an expected earnings rate of 7.25 percent, down from 8
percent, in calculating the size of contributions needed to pay
retirees, said  John Mellott , chairman of the  Atlanta Pension
Panel , at a city hall meeting yesterday.  Atlanta, home of  Hartsfield-Jackson International , joins
public pensions  from  California to New York that cut their
assumed rate of return on assets or are weighing such a move.
The recession  left  50 top municipal pensions $382 billion short
of meeting promised benefits, according to a Northwestern
University study in August.  “We need to step up and address this issue,” said
Mellott, former publisher of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution,
whose panel includes  Richard Anderson , chief executive officer
of  Delta Air Lines Inc ., and Jim Wells, CEO of  SunTrust Banks
Inc . “Putting this off to another generation I don’t think is a
moral act.”  Atlanta is the hub for Delta, the world’s second-largest
airline after  United Continental Holdings Inc.   The city’s police, fire and general pension funds, with
combined assets of $1.9 billion, have promised $3.4 billion in
benefits. Reducing the expected return would widen the unfunded
liability by about $250 million to almost $1.8 billion,
consultants including Deloitte LLP said in a report.  The 14-member board appointed by Mayor  Kasim Reed  helped
Mellott, now an adviser for Bain & Co., raise $1.5 million in
private funds to hire analysts to review the pension programs.  Largest Plan  The largest public pension plan in the U.S., the California
Public Employees Retirement System, known as Calpers, uses a
7.75 percent assumed rate of return on investments and has said
it will consider lowering that expectation early next year.
Calpers has $218 billion in assets.  The California State Teachers Retirement System, the
second-largest U.S. public pension, with $141 billion, cut its
expected earnings rate to 7.75 percent this month, increasing
the need for greater contributions as it recovers from market
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Duane D. Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 