-- Latvia May Return to Eurobond Market Next Year, Finance Chief Vilks Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-12-17T09:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/latvia-may-return-to-eurobond-market-next-year-finance-chief-vilks-says.html
Latvia may return to the
international bond market in the second half of next year, when
the government expects another credit-rating upgrade, Finance
Minister  Andris Vilks  said.  Receiving a higher debt grade in the first half of 2011
would “mean that probably we will move for a Eurobond issue for
the second half of the year,” Vilks said in an interview in Riga
yesterday. “We will go only when we feel it’s the right time,
when the rates are okay.”  Latvia’s  economy , which shrank by about a quarter since
2008 in the world’s deepest recession, returned to growth in the
third quarter as  export  demand boosted  industrial production .
The improved finances of the bailout-loan recipient prompted
Standard & Poor’s to raise the country’s debt rating one level
to BB+, one step below investment grade this month.  The country, recommended for investment with a Baa3 rating
at Moody’s Investors Service, needs to climb one more step at
either S&P or Fitch Ratings to make its debt eligible for more
investment funds. Fitch also rates Latvia at BB+, its highest
junk grade.  “If the government is able to meet its fiscal targets and
the economy shows further signs of a sustained recovery, the
rating will come under upward pressure over the medium term,”
said Douglas Renwick, a London-based analyst at Fitch, in an e-
mailed reply to questions from Bloomberg. “However, the size of
the fiscal adjustment is still considerable and this poses risks
to meeting the 2014 euro target.”  ‘Strong Capital Flows’  Latvia last tapped the Eurobond market in March 2008, when
it sold 400 million euros of bonds due 2018. The yield on the
Eurobond fell 7 basis points today to 5.302 percent, compared
with a yield of almost 12 percent in March last year.  “Given the improvement in investor sentiment towards the
Baltic state and the solid performance of the Latvian
government, Latvia has a high chance of taking its share from
the strong capital flows to emerging economies,” said  Yarkin Cebeci , an Istanbul based economist at JPMorgan Chase, in an
email. “A possible Latvian issuance will be well received.”  The Baltic nation turned to a group led by the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  for a 7.5 billion-euro
($10 billion) loan in 2008 after its second-biggest bank failed.
Gross domestic product grew 2.9 percent in the third quarter,
the first annual expansion in 10 quarters.  ‘Better Than Expected’  “The economy is performing better than expected,” Vilks
said, citing an estimate that GDP will remain flat this year,
compared with an earlier projection for a 4 percent decline. The
revision may allow upgrades to estimates through 2013, he said.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Latvian debt, which
investors use to protect against default or speculate on a
borrower’s credit worthiness, fell about 2 basis points
yesterday to 272.3, according to data provider CMA. Latvian CDS
prices reached almost 1,200 basis points in March 2009.  The increase in economic performance allowed the government
to agree with the IMF and the EU on about 280 million lati ($525
million) in austerity measures in the 2011 budget instead of
previous forecasts for as much as 440 million lati. The
government needs to find about 50 million lati more in measures
that are sustainable to meet the criteria of the loan, the IMF
and the European Commission said in a joint statement yesterday.  Budget-Deficit Outlook  The government may pass a supplementary budget as early as
in the first quarter or “most likely” after the second
quarter, Vilks said. The budget deficit will be about 8 percent
of GDP this year, lower than the bailout’s 8.5 percent limit, he
said. The 2011 gap may narrow to 5.4 percent, based on
“conservative’ figures, compared with a 6 percent limit,
according to Vilks.  Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis ’ Cabinet, re-elected in
October, raised taxes, reduced expenditure and slashed state pay
to meet the terms of the international loan in two budgets in
2009. The country has passed austerity measures equal to about
14 percent of GDP since the bailout program started in late
2008, according to central bank estimates.  The government, backed by the country’s lenders, opted for
a strategy of bolstering competiveness by forcing prices and
wages to fall. Latvia decided against increasing its
competitiveness by letting the lats depreciate, keeping it
pegged to the euro to protect foreign-currency borrowers.  ‘Largest Concern’  Government debt will peak at about 50.4 percent of GDP,
according to the IMF, compared with earlier estimates for as
much as 90 percent. Inflation is the biggest risk to planned
euro adoption in 2014, Vilks said.  “This is the largest concern for us, inflation, rather
than the fiscal balance,” he said. Consumer prices may rise by
an average of about 2 percent next year, due in part to
increases in the value-added tax, he said.  Latvia has a “very limited corridor for maneuvers” before
inflation picks up, he said. Missing the euro-target date may
delay the switchover to 2020 because of accelerating consumer-
price increases, according to Vilks.  Fighting rising prices “would demand a very, very serious
approach,” he said. Euro adoption may demand “a kind of
consensus” among people, businesses and the government to curb
inflation and wages, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  