-- Australian Court Sets Aside James Hardie Non-Executive Directors' Fines
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-12-17T06:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/australia-court-sets-aside-james-hardie-director-fines-and-suspensions.html
An Australian appeals court set
aside fines and suspensions levied on  James Hardie Industries NV 
former non-executive directors over a misleading statement the
company issued regarding compensation for asbestos victims.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission failed
to prove that the directors passed a resolution in 2001
approving the release of a statement to the Australian Stock
Exchange, or ASX, claiming the company’s asbestos compensation
fund was sufficient to pay all future claims, the New South
Wales Supreme Court of Appeal said today.  “We are not satisfied that the non-executive director
appellants voted in favor of the draft ASX announcement
resolution,” Chief Justice James Spigelman wrote on behalf of
the appeals panel. “We do not think ASIC discharged its burden
of proof.”  ASIC is facing a string of losses in its attempts to
prosecute companies and directors for alleged misdeeds. The
regulator a year ago failed to win a conviction against  Andrew Forrest , the billionaire founder of  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. ,
who was alleged to have misled investors over iron ore projects
in China. The case is being appealed. ASIC also lost an eight-
year case against One.Tel founder  Jodee Rich  last year.  ASIC is reviewing today’s judgment and will decide later
whether to ask the High Court to consider an appeal, the
commission said in a statement.  Missed Witness  The commission should have called Allens Arthur Robinson
lawyer  David Robb , who had advised the James Hardie board, to
support its case that the directors approved the statement, the
appeals court said.  “The failure to call Mr. Robb in our view significantly
undermines the cogency of ASIC’s case,” Spigelman said.  The non-executive directors had said they relied on advice
from the company’s executives to make their decisions.  “They have to rely on management,” said  Tim Bednall ,
partner at Mallesons, Stephen Jaques, an Australian law firm
that represented James Hardie. “That’s just the way it works.”  Bednall said today’s ruling doesn’t change Australian
corporate law, or the duties and responsibilities of management
and board members.  The case examined the responsibilities of public companies,
executive and non-executive directors, ASIC Chairman Tony
D’Aloisio said in the statement.  Evidence Analysis  “The appeal court has also provided analysis of the
evidentiary burden on ASIC in a civil penalty case, and the
obligation on ASIC to call witnesses,” D’Aloisio said.  James Hardie , the biggest seller of home siding in the
U.S., used asbestos in Australia beginning in the 1920s. The
fibrous mineral, used to make fiber cement sheets for housing,
has been linked to lung cancer and mesothelioma, a form of
cancer affecting the chest or abdomen. The company began phasing
out asbestos in 1968 and all products it made were asbestos-free
by 1986.  Today’s ruling “doesn’t change the fact that this is an
ongoing problem,” Karen Banton, the widow of  Bernie Banton  who
had campaigned for victims of asbestos, said outside the
courthouse in Sydney. “It’s ridiculous the amount of money
companies like Hardie have spent defending themselves.”  She said the money would be better used to help victims of
diseases associated with asbestos.  Compensation Fund  In 2001, James Hardie created a A$293 million ($291
million) fund to compensate asbestos victims, saying in a news
release it was satisfied that the foundation had “sufficient
funds to meet anticipated future claims.” ASIC alleged the
directors approved the release and knew it was misleading, with
potential claims exceeding the money available by A$1.3 billion.  A trial judge agreed with ASIC, fining the company
A$80,000. Former Chief Executive Officer  Peter Macdonald  was
fined A$350,000 and barred from managing a corporation for 15
years and former company secretary and general counsel  Peter Shafron  received a A$75,000 fine and a seven-year ban. Eight
other former directors were banned from managing corporations
for five years and given fines of either A$30,000 or A$35,000.  The company and the directors, except Macdonald, appealed.  The appeals court upheld the fine against James Hardie.  “They expressly found the statements were misleading,”
Bednall said. “There’s no joy there.”  James Hardie said in a statement to the Australian Stock
Exchange that it’s reviewing the judgment and doesn’t plan to
comment further.  The appeals court also ruled that Shafron and former Chief
Financial Officer  Phillip Morley  failed to advise the board of
potential future shortfalls in the fund. The court ordered
another hearing to review the penalties against Shafron and
Morley. The former CFO received a A$35,000 fine and a five-year
suspension from serving as executive or a director of a publicly
traded company.  The case is Australian Securities Investment Commission v.
James Hardie Industries NV. 2009/00298426. New South Wales
Supreme Court of Appeal (Sydney).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  