-- Tax-Free Bonds Rally Most Since August on Build America Extension Proposal
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/tax-free-yields-drop-most-this-month-on-proposal-to-extend-build-americas.html
Top-rated tax-exempt municipal bonds
due in 30 years rallied the most since August after a U.S. House
of Representatives Republican said he’d propose continuing the
Build America Bonds program.  Representative  John Mica  of Florida, who’s set to become
chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in
January, said he plans to introduce a “reincarnation” of the
Build America program, poised to expire Dec. 31. The taxable
bonds, which provide issuers a 35 percent federal subsidy on
interest costs, were left out of an $858 billion bill that
extends George W. Bush-era tax cuts.  “It’s definitely a contributing factor” to the yield
drop, said  Tom Boylen , managing director and a municipal-bond
trader at Chicago-based BMO Capital Markets. “There’s always
been a thought that there might be some redress of the program,
and it’s adding to the positive bias of what’s going on in
munis.”  Yields on top-rated 30-year tax-exempt municipal debt fell
about 10 basis points yesterday, or 0.10 percentage point, the
most since Aug. 18, to 4.72 percent, according to a  Bloomberg
Valuation index . An extension of Build Americas may mean fewer
tax-exempts issued in 2011. The 30-year yield climbed to an
almost 16-month high of 4.84 percent this week on dimmed
expectations for an extension of the program. Yields move in the
opposite direction of prices. Treasuries also rallied yesterday
as the Federal Reserve bought some of the securities.  The federally subsidized program was created as part of
President Barack Obama’s economic-stimulus legislation last year
to drive down borrowing costs for localities on bridge, road and
other infrastructure projects. Issuers have sold about $186
billion of the securities since April 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  