-- Bank of Montreal to Acquire U.S. Banker Marshall & Ilsley for $4.1 Billion
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-17T21:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/bank-of-montreal-to-acquire-u-s-banker-marshall-ilsley-for-4-1-billion.html
Bank of Montreal ’s agreement to buy
Wisconsin lender Marshall & Ilsley Corp. for about $4.1 billion
in stock will double its U.S. deposits and branches and may
spark more mergers among regional banks.  Bank of Montreal agreed to pay 0.1257 of its own stock for
each share of Marshall & Ilsley to expand its Chicago-based
Harris Bank, Canada’s fourth-biggest lender said today in a
statement. The deal values M&I at $7.75 a share, 34 percent
higher than yesterday’s closing price of $5.79 on the New York
Stock Exchange.  The Toronto-based bank also agreed to repay $1.7 billion of
preferred shares acquired by the U.S. government from its
bailout of M&I, bringing the total cost to about $5.8 billion.  “We’ve been waiting for Bank of Montreal to expand and
grow its Chicagoland bank for 25 years,” said  Tony Demarin ,
chief investment officer of BCV Asset Management in Winnipeg,
Manitoba, which manages about C$250 million ($247 million),
including Bank of Montreal shares. “This is a very positive
move for the bank.”  Canadian banks, ranked the world’s soundest for three
straight years by the World Economic Forum, have been expanding
in the U.S., where companies faltered as the real-estate market
tumbled.  Toronto-Dominion Bank , the country’s second-biggest
lender, may reach an agreement to buy Chrysler Financial Corp.,
the auto-loan company owned by Cerberus Capital Management LP,
three people with knowledge of the matter said this month.  Third-Largest Deal  Bank of Montreal’s takeover would be the third-largest U.S.
acquisition by a Canadian bank or insurance company, ranking
behind  Manulife Financial Corp .’s $10.9 billion purchase of John
Hancock Financial Services Inc. in 2003 and Toronto-Dominion’s
$8.3 billion deal for Commerce Bancorp Inc. in 2007, according
to Bloomberg data.  Marshall & Ilsley has posted eight straight quarterly
 losses  while Bank of Montreal has reported six consecutive
quarters of profit growth, a recent streak unmatched by Canada’s
five other large lenders. The Milwaukee-based bank traded as
high as $40 in 2007.  “M&I was moving past the problems of the economic
downturn, but I think this will be a watershed for both banks,”
Bank of Montreal Chief Executive Officer  William Downe , 58, said
in an interview. “The combination of M&I and Harris, coming out
of the downturn, means that we’re well positioned to participate
in a healthier economy.”  The deal values Marshall & Ilsley at 61 percent of book
value, less than half the median price-to-book ratio of 1.4 for
33 regional, commercial bank deals since the start of 2009,
according to Bloomberg merger data.  Stock Plunged  Bank of Montreal  plunged  C$4.05, or 6.5 percent, to C$58 by
the 4 p.m. close of trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, its
biggest decline in a year. M&I rose $1.05, or 18 percent, to
$6.84, lifting other regional bank shares. Keycorp rose 33
cents, or 4.1 percent, to $8.42. Fifth Third Bancorp climbed 1.1
percent to $14.07.  Bank of Montreal’s action will create a wave of regional
bank buying as U.S. regulators redefine rules, said  Richard Bove , an analyst for Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz, Florida.  “Now people are afraid someone is going to come along and
do something before the regulations are changed,” Bove said.
“They don’t want to be stuck missing the move.”  With the purchase, Bank of Montreal more than doubles its
U.S. branches to 695, and increases its U.S. assets by 47
percent to $162 billion. Marshall & Ilsley has outlets in states
including Minnesota, Missouri, Indiana, Kansas and Wisconsin.  ‘Makes Sense’  “Strategically, the acquisition makes a lot of sense,
given the geographic overlap of the core operations, principally
Wisconsin and Indiana as well as broadening BMO’s scope in other
key regions such as Arizona and Florida as well as M&I’s focus
on mid-market commercial lending,”  John Aiken , a Barclays
Capital analyst, wrote in a note to investors.  Bank of Montreal’s purchase makes sense in the long term,
even though M&I won’t show a profit for 18 months to 24 months,
Bove said.  Defaults on business and home loans hobbled profit at M&I,
with net charge-offs equal to 5.47 percent of average loans and
leases during the third quarter.  Marshall & Ilsley expanded housing and construction loans
in states such as Florida and Arizona, which were among the
hardest-hit by the real-estate bust. Bank of Montreal estimates
$4.7 billion of future losses on M&I’s real-estate and other
loans, according to a presentation.  Substantial Loan Losses  “M&I still faces the prospect of substantial loan losses,
particularly in its commercial real estate and owner-occupied
commercial mortgage portfolios,”  Peter Routledge , a National
Bank Financial analyst, wrote  in a note to clients.  Bank of Montreal will raise about C$800 million in shares
to help finance the purchase, the largest takeover ever for the
Canadian bank. The deal will add to earnings in 2013, excluding
merger costs of C$540 million. The transaction is expected to
close before July 31.  Bank of Montreal agreed to buy $1.7 billion of preferred
shares from the U.S. government acquired as part of a bailout
under the U.S. Treasury department’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program.  “We will do that out of the available resources of the
company,” Downe said. “There’s cash in M&I and cash in Bank of
Montreal, so the financing of it is not a significant issue.”  Harris Bank  Bank of Montreal expanded in the U.S. with its C$718
million takeover of Harris Bank in 1984. The company has spent
about C$2.5 billion buying U.S. banks since then, including
C$315 million two years ago for two Wisconsin lenders. Bank of
Montreal bought Amcore Bank from U.S. regulators, adding 52
branches in Illinois and Wisconsin, in April.  Marshall & Ilsley has 374 branches and $38 billion in
deposits, and is the largest bank in Wisconsin. The purchase
will yield savings of about $250 million and will close in the
fiscal third quarter, Bank of Montreal said. M&I CEO  Mark Furlong  will be chief executive of the combined U.S. consumer
banking business, while  Ellen Costello  of Bank of Montreal will
be U.S. country head.  “We will be a formidable competitor together,” Furlong
said in an interview. “It gives us a wonderful market share in
the Midwest and an opportunity to continue to build that market
share through acquisitions and through internal growth.”  Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by  John Paulson , is the
sixth-largest M&I shareholder, according to Bloomberg data.  Bank of Montreal is paying 1.26 times  revenue,  less than
half the 3.17 times revenue for the average purchase of similar-
sized U.S. banks, according to Bloomberg data.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised Bank of Montreal while Bank of
America Merrill Lynch worked with Marshall & Ilsley.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  