-- Bank of America Sued by Arizona, Nevada Over Mortgage Modification Program
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/bank-of-america-broke-2009-mortgage-deal-states-say-update1-.html
Bank of America Corp.  was sued by
Arizona and Nevada over home-loan modification programs intended
to keep homeowners who borrowed from its Countrywide mortgage
unit out of foreclosure.  Instead of working to modify loans on a timely basis, Bank
of America proceeded with foreclosures while borrowers’ requests
for modifications were pending, a violation of a 2009 agreement
with Arizona to help borrowers facing the loss of their homes,
 Terry Goddard , the state’s attorney general, said yesterday in a
statement.  “We are disappointed that the suit was filed at this
time,”  Dan Frahm , a Bank of America spokesman, said in an
e-mail, referring to the Arizona suit. “We and other major
servicers are currently engaged in multistate discussions led by
Attorney General Miller in Iowa to try to address foreclosure
related issues more comprehensively.”  All 50 U.S. states are investigating whether banks and loan
servicers used false documents and signatures to justify
hundreds of thousands of foreclosures. The probe, announced
Oct. 13, came after  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Ally Financial
Inc. ’s GMAC mortgage unit said they would stop repossessions in
23 states where courts supervise home seizures, and Bank of
America, the largest U.S. lender, froze foreclosures nationwide.  Misleading Consumers  The bank is accused in the Arizona and Nevada lawsuits
filed yesterday of misleading consumers about requirements for
the modification program and how long it would take for requests
to be decided. The bank provided inaccurate and deceptive
reasons for denying modification requests, according to the
suits.  A consent judgment in March 2009 to resolve an Arizona
lawsuit alleging Countrywide engaged in fraud while originating
and marketing loans required the company to create a loan
modification program for some former Countrywide borrowers in
Arizona. Bank of America, which  acquired  Countrywide in July
2008, assumed responsibility for Countrywide’s compliance with
the consent judgment, Goddard said.  Bank of America  has completed 750,000 loan modifications
nationwide, including 30,000 in Arizona and 20,000 in Nevada,
Frahm said. He said the company has built four assistance
centers in  those states, held numerous outreach events, and
developed special programs to address the hardest-hit
populations.  The Arizona lawsuit, filed in state court in Phoenix, seeks
a court order holding the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank
in contempt for violating the agreement and requiring it to pay
as much as $25,000 for each violation of the accord plus as much
as $10,000 for each violation of the state’s consumer-fraud law.  Nevada’s complaint seeks unspecified civil penalties and
restitution.  The Arizona case is Arizona v Bank of America, CV2010-
33580, Maricopa County Superior Court (Phoenix). The Nevada case
is Nevada v. Bank of America, Eighth Judicial District Court,
Clark County (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karen Gullo  in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 