-- Besieged by Turkish Army, Viennese Ate Rats, Cats: Lewis Lapham
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/besieged-by-turks-viennese-ate-rats-waited-for-rescue-army-lewis-lapham.html
The Ottoman Empire had long lusted
after Vienna, and, after assembling a force of more than
100,000, Kara Mustafa almost conquered the city in 1683. Not
until Stalingrad during World War II was there a siege of such
grim horror.  Using arrows, scimitars, guns, grenades and cannons, both
sides fought with savage ferocity against the enemy infidels.
The heads of fallen soldiers were displayed on spikes. Unable to
break through the fortified stone walls, the Turks
systematically dug tunnels underneath and set off explosives.  Lacking food, the besieged Viennese ate cats and rats, and
succumbed to infected wounds and diseases caused by the mounds
of stinking waste humming with flies. After two months,
conditions were not much better in the Turkish encampments.  Vienna was saved at the last possible moment with the
arrival of a rescue army led by the King of Poland and his
cavalry. The battle signaled the end of Ottoman ambitions in
Central Europe and the rise of the Habsburg dynasty.  For his ignominious failure, Kara Mustafa was executed in
Belgrade, strangled with a silk rope and then beheaded.  I spoke with  Andrew Wheatcroft , author of “The Enemy at
the Gate: Habsburgs, Ottomans, and the Battle for Europe,” on
the following topics:  1. Christians vs. Muslims  2. Claims to the Roman Empire  3. Pit of Hell  4. Cataclysmic Battle  5. Turkish Retreat  For the podcast, click  here . To buy this book in North America,
click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for Bloomberg News.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in New York at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 