-- Best Dog Books Uncover Vick’s Survivors, Marilyn Monroe’s Maf
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/best-dog-books-uncover-vick-s-survivors-monroe-s-maf-manuela-hoelterhoff.html
“The first thing you see when you
get to heaven is all your old pets, running to greet you.”  I can’t wait! That’s from the enjoyably offbeat “ I Thought
You Were Dead: A Love Story”  by Pete Nelson (Algonquin), one of
many writers inspired by canine companions to publish quite a
number of books.  The narrator, down on his luck, spends a lot of time
talking to Stella, a sleek mongrel with an upbeat view of life’s
dramas. “If he goes, it means more food for you,” she says
cheerfully, hearing his father had a stroke.  Saving the Farm  “ Rose in a Storm”  by Jon Katz (Villard). Rose, a small
herding dog, goes into overdrive as winter ices in her farm. She
digs out the farmer, scares off coyotes, impresses a large wolf
and flies a rescue helicopter. No wait, a human does that. But
this is one smart, feeling dog, whose interior world is
wonderfully suggested by Katz.  Vick’s Dogs  “ The Lost Dogs: Michael Vick’s Dogs and Their Tale of
Rescue and Redemption”  by Jim Gorant (Gotham). Former Atlanta
Falcons quarterback Vick got a second chance and so, amazingly,
did most of the dogs he tortured with his Neanderthal betting
pals. Gorant follows their story as the pit bulls leave the Bad
Newz (!) Kennels and meet up with worthy humans, including the
investigators, one of whom lost his job for making too much of a
fuss.  Classic Tales  “ Dog Stories”  edited by Diana Secker Tesdell (Everyman’s
Library/Knopf). This attractive volume includes an appealing
story by Patricia Highsmith in which an aging dog murders his
unpleasant master and gets a new life with the woman he loves.
India’s landscape comes to life in a spooky Rudyard Kipling tale
and  Jonathan Lethem  takes us inside a hotel for dogs to meet
Ava, a three-legged pit bull who “thinks with her mouth.”  Otto the Boston Terrier  “ You Had Me at Woof: How Dogs Taught Me the Secrets of
Happiness ” by Julie Klam (Riverhead). It’s hard to resist a
memoir that starts “One night I dreamed I had a dog.” No, not
a guy, and not the mansion of Manderley. A dog. Klam writes
amusingly, lightly, about her struggle to perfect herself and
various canines, especially Otto, a bug-eyed Boston terrier who
acquired a colorful wardrobe.  Marilyn and Frank  “ The Life and Opinions of Maf the Dog, and of His Friend
Marilyn Monroe”  by Andrew O’Hagan (Houghton Mifflin Harcourt).
A gift from  Frank Sinatra , Maf, short for Mafia, was definitely
more appreciative of the star than all those singers,
politicians, presidents and playwrights who blighted her life.
Did  Arthur Miller  ever lick those Champagne-flavored toes with
such pleasure? O’Hagan, a very funny writer, reaches
inspirational heights when  Marilyn  and Maf head to Mexico to
divorce the bore and have a few drinks.  Canine Psychology  “ The Dog Who Couldn’t Stop Loving: How Dogs Have Captured
Our Hearts for Thousands of Years”  by Jeffrey Moussaieff Masson
(Harper). The brilliant Masson, who was abused himself for his
refreshing views on Freud, now lives in New Zealand and writes
about animals. No one is more insightful on the special bond we
form with our dogs.  Dog Photos  “ Dogs ” by Tim Flach (Abrams). Flach’s terrific
photographs include a nameless snarling wolf -- the vilified
urvater of my beagles -- and his domesticated progeny through
the ages. Sadie, for instance, the bomb-sniffing heroine of
Kabul. Flach photographed her like a soldier, staring
unwaveringly into the distance, a medal on her chest.  “ Photobooth Dogs”  by Cameron Woo (Chronicle). This modest
book features very affecting photos of pets whose humans dragged
them into those cheap curtained booths to document their
adoration.  ( Manuela Hoelterhoff  is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 