-- Bonus Rules in U.K. to Divide Financial Firms Into Four Groups, FSA Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-12-17T16:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/bonus-rules-in-u-k-to-divide-financial-firms-into-four-groups-fsa-says.html
The U.K. Financial Services
Authority approved rules restricting guaranteed bonuses and up-
front cash payments for banks’ proprietary traders and broker
dealers.  The FSA said financial firms will be split into four groups
based on their size. The toughest rules will apply to firms with
“significant proprietary trading and investment banking
activities,” the regulator said today in a  statement .  European Union regulators approved laws to curb incentives
for excessive risk-taking earlier this month, imposing limits on
cash payouts and the size of bankers’ bonuses. The rules allow
bankers to receive about 25 percent of their bonuses in
immediate cash payouts and require the rest to be deferred or
held in shares for a minimum of three years.  “The tier system is the FSA’s attempt to put some clarity
on the EU rules,”  Stefan Martin , an employment lawyer at  Allen
& Overy LLP  in London, said in a telephone interview. “If
you’re not at one of the big banks you’ll probably welcome this
because it’s not as bad as it could’ve been.”  Small banks, building societies and hedge funds will face
fewer rules on share awards, disclosure and bonus deferrals,
under the FSA rules released today. In addition, unlike the
largest financial institutions, they won’t need to set up
special remuneration committees.  Global Consensus Needed  “Until there is a genuinely global consensus on pay in
financial services, the challenge for policymakers will be to
ensure the U.K. continues to attract this valuable business,”
the London-based  British Bankers’ Association  said in an e-
mailed statement.  Senior employees at banks with more than 1 billion pounds
($1.5 billion) in capital will comprise the top tier and be
subject to the toughest rules on share retention and cash
payouts. Tier two firms will have capital between 50 million
pounds and 1 billion pounds. The deadline for implementation for
some banks is Jan. 1.  “The tiers only provide a starting point for firms to
understand our general expectations for what constitutes
adherence to the code,” the FSA said. “Where appropriate, we
are able to give individual guidance to firms.”  The FSA rules incorporate the guidelines from the EU, which
were approved by the  European Parliament  earlier in the year.  ‘Heads I Win’  The amount of banking profits given to employees compared
with shareholders “is disproportionately high given the
generally commoditized nature of most banking services,”  said
 Richard Greenwood , an analyst at Bedlam Asset Management in
London.  Large bonuses are “symptomatic of the heads-I-win, tails-
I-win culture which still pervades the global investment banking
sector,” Greenwood said.  Separately today, Prime Minister David Cameron urged banks
to show restraint over “unjustified” bonuses and suggested the
government might intervene unless they comply.  The FSA is in negotiations with lenders to identify which
bankers will be covered by European Union rules restricting
guaranteed bonuses and up-front cash payments.  “In order to get everyone ready by the Dec. 31 deadline
we’ve had talks with a number of institutions,”  Heidi Ashley ,
an FSA spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  Firms will need to disclose details of their bonus policies
at least once a year and provide evidence to the FSA that they
implemented the new guidelines by the end of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 