-- BRIC-Best Debt Rally Shows How Yields Overwhelm Mantega Tax: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2010-12-17T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/bric-best-debt-rally-shows-how-yields-overwhelm-mantega-tax-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian  local bonds  are
outperforming debt from India, Russia and China for a second
straight year as the Latin American’s country’s inflation-
adjusted interest rates, the second-highest in the world, lure
global investors.  The 14.4 percent return on Brazilian bonds this year is
almost four times that of debt sold by  China  and compares with
gains of 8.5 percent for  Russian  securities and 8.7 percent for
 Indian  notes, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s GBI-EM Index.
The 67 percent advance in Brazilian debt since January 2009
compares with an average return of 11 percent for Russia, India
and China, the biggest difference in four years. The countries,
which have the biggest developing economies, are known as BRICs.  Investors poured money into Brazilian debt this year as
near-zero interest rates in the U.S. and Europe fueled a search
for higher-yielding assets. Brazil’s 10.75 percent benchmark
rate is almost double that of China and India, and 3 percentage
points more than Russia’s. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
tripled a tax on overseas purchases of local debt in October to
halt a rally in the real. Brazil’s inflation-adjusted rates are
second only to Croatia among 46 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  “When you look at the local debt, it’s absolutely
stunning,” said  Pablo Cisilino , who helps manage $20 billion in
emerging-market debt, including local Brazilian and Russian
bonds, at Stone Harbor Investment in New York. “The absolute
rate in Brazil is so high that it’s going to be hard to
compress. Brazil is an outlier.”  Local government bonds in Brazil yield an average of 12.11
percent, compared with 7.96 percent in India, 6.90 percent in
Russia and 3.76 percent in China, according to JPMorgan.  Tax Increase  Mantega, who will retain his post when President-elect
 Dilma Rousseff  takes office Jan. 1, boosted the tax on foreign
investors twice in October to six percent and said on Dec. 9 the
government is ready to take steps to prevent further gains in
the real. The currency is up 39 percent in the past two years.  The yield on Brazil’s benchmark 10 percent local bond due
in 2021 jumped 63 basis points, or 0.63 percentage point, since
Oct. 4, when Mantega doubled the tax, to 12.49 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brazil is rated BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s, the lowest investment grade.  In addition to higher real interest rates, Brazil’s local
market is more open to foreigners than those of Russia, China
and India, said  Jeremy Brewin , a portfolio manager at Aviva
Investors, which oversees $2.5 billion of emerging-market fixed-
income assets, including local Brazilian, Russian and Indian
debt.  ‘Excessively High’  “If you’re willing to pay the entry costs to the club,
then you can own a lot of local Brazil,” Brewin said in a
telephone interview from London. “Real yields in Brazil are
excessively high given the credit rating and that persists as a
general theme going forward despite the fact that we’ve had an
increase in yields due to the 6 percent” tax, he said.  While Brazil has increased restrictions, India, Russia and
China have taken steps this year to reduce barriers into their
local markets. India raised its cap on foreign-investor holdings
of government bonds by 50 percent to $10 billion in September.
Russia’s Micex exchange said in October it plans to curb
requirements to buy and sell bonds through local brokers, cut
the number of trading accounts needed and merge settlement
systems into a single unit.  China’s central bank said in August it would allow overseas
financial institutions to invest yuan holdings in the interbank
bond market to promote greater use of its currency.  ‘Less Welcome’  “Investors are going to feel increasingly less welcome
with the implementation of the IOF tax, which could increase
further,” in Brazil,  Kathryn Rooney , a strategist with Bulltick
Capital Markets in Miami, said in a telephone interview. “While
up to this point Brazil has been a favorite of the market,
things could change in the next year or so.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 10 basis points to 194
at 5:08 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell 2 basis points to 113 today, according to CMA
prices. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  The real fell 0.7 percent to 1.7143 per U.S. dollar today.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose 3 basis points to 11.85 percent today,
indicating traders expect policy makers will increase borrowing
costs by about 200 basis points by the end of next year to curb
inflation.  ‘Important Driver’  Consumer prices increased 5.63 percent in the 12 months
through November, the fastest pace since February 2009.  The prospect of higher interest rates will further increase
the attractiveness of Brazil’s fixed-income assets, said  Aryam Vazquez , an economist with Wells Fargo & Co. in New York.  “The yields in Brazil are stemming from this high-interest
rate component that you have,” Vazquez said in a telephone
interview. “The most important driver here is expectations that
rates will continue to increase in 2011.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Bain  in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  