-- Build Americas' Boom Set to Bust After Busiest Issuance Week: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l   a n d   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-12-17T17:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/build-america-boom-set-to-bust-after-busiest-issuance-week-muni-credit.html
Sales of Build America Bonds, which
have enabled states and cities to borrow about $185 billion from
investors around the world since last year, are drying up a week
before the federally subsidized program is set to end.  Next week’s scheduled issuance will plummet to $35 million,
the second-lowest total since April 2009, after reaching a
record in the past five days, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A record 141 individual offerings of the debt, which
is set to expire Dec. 31, have been sold in the last two weeks,
Bloomberg data show.  The glut of Build Americas has  driven yields up 44 basis
points  this month to 6.51 percent on Dec. 15, the highest this
year, according to a Wells Fargo index. The prospect of higher
premiums to sell municipal debt next week may have discouraged
issuers from coming to market, said  Evan Rourke , a portfolio
member with Boston-based Eaton Vance Corp., which has almost $10
billion under management.  “The rush to issue BABs took us to this point,” Rourke
said in a telephone interview. “Now the market shuts down.”  Among borrowers, Carlton County, Minnesota, is offering $5
million in Build Americas next week after a two-week delay
pending completion of paperwork, said Treasurer Paul Gassert.  This is the 35,000-population county’s first time issuing
the securities, for which the Treasury provides a 35 percent
subsidy on interest. After accounting for the subsidy, the
county will pay less yield than if it were to issue all tax-
exempt debt, he said.  “Fortunately, we made the deadline, so we’ll be issuing to
build a new community center,” Gassert said. “We’ll save at
least a million dollars in borrowing costs.”  Opposition to Program  Build Americas were created under President  Barack Obama ’s
stimulus legislation as a means of driving down borrowing costs
for localities and funneling money to job-creating construction
projects. More than $184 billion of the securities have been
sold since April 2009, funding clean-water projects in Ohio,
highways in Kansas, dormitories at Rutgers University in New
Jersey and a new bridge spanning the San Francisco Bay.  While Obama and the Democrats have supported prolonging the
program, they have run into opposition from Republicans critical
of the stimulus package. Extensions have twice passed the
Democratic-controlled House only to stall in the Senate, where
the Republican minority has sufficient power to block
legislation.  The subsidy was left out of an agreement Obama struck with
Republicans. U.S. Senator  Ron Wyden , a Democrat from Oregon, who
previously led an unsuccessful bid to extend the program,
offered an amendment this week to include it in the tax bill.  ‘Reincarnation’ Proposal  Representative  John Mica , who becomes chairman of the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in January, said
today he would introduce a “reincarnation” of the program.  “I can almost guarantee a reiteration of the Build America
Bond program,” the Florida Republican said in an interview in
Washington.  The  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund , an exchange-
traded fund that tracks S&P’s muni-bond index, rose $1.00, to
$99.64, or about 1 percent, at 12:25 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  California  and New York City, two of the three largest
issuers of municipal debt, marketed Build Americas to overseas
investors. Overall, foreign buyers boosted their holdings of
U.S. munis to  $52 billion  in the third quarter from $50.5
billion in 2008 on the strength of the taxable securities,
according to data released Dec. 9 by the Federal Reserve.  Vacation Time  Seasonality also may have played a role in the smaller
slate of sales next week, Rourke said. About $14 million in
Build Americas were sold in the last week of December 2009, the
lowest on record, Bloomberg data show.  “Low issuance next week is because of a combination of
dealers needing to close down their books for the year and
issuers going on vacation,” he said. “Individual investors are
also distracted and mentally people are positioned for the end
of the year.”  Following are descriptions of pending sales of U.S.
municipal debt:  BUILD AMERICA BOND sales will total about $35 million next
week, led by the University of Louisville’s $20.9 million
offering. Sycamore, Ohio, Community School District will sell $9
million, with Carlton County issuing about $5 million.
Louisville and Carlton will be sold through competitive bidding
on Dec. 20 and Dec. 21, respectively, while Fifth Third Bancorp.
will market the Sycamore securities. (Added Dec. 17)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Ashley Lutz  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  