-- Build America Bonds to See `Reincarnation', Mica Says
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-12-17T20:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/build-america-bond-program-poised-for-a-reincarnation-house-s-mica-says.html
Representative  John Mica , who
becomes House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
chairman in January, plans to introduce a “reincarnation” of
the Build America Bonds program, set to expire Dec. 31.  “I can almost guarantee a reiteration of the Build America
Bond program,” Mica, a Florida Republican, said in an interview
in Washington today. “We’re working to find a reincarnation.”  The federally subsidized program was created as part of
President  Barack Obama ’s economic-stimulus legislation last year
to drive down borrowing costs for localities on bridge, road and
other infrastructure projects. Issuers have sold about $185
billion of the securities since April 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Any move to resurrect the program may run afoul of
Republicans critical of the stimulus program. The Congressional
Budget Office has projected that the 10-year cost of the program
will add $36 billion to the federal deficit.  Yields on top-rated tax-exempt municipal bonds due in 30
years fell about 8 basis points, the most since Nov. 22, to
about 4.74 percent, as the long-term securities rallied,
according to a  Bloomberg Valuation index . A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The prospect of the program’s end has weighed on the $2.86
trillion municipal bond market as public officials have rushed
to borrow money at subsidized rates and as investors expressed
concern that traditional tax-exempt debt issuance may surge next
year.  Subsidy Impact  New York City Comptroller  John Liu  said Build America has
allowed the city to raise money from investors who wouldn’t buy
tax-exempt bonds.  “It has allowed us to get favorable financing and allowed
us to build roads, schools, bridges, hospitals,” he said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television.  By paying 35 percent of the interest cost on the taxable
bonds, the U.S. government may have saved borrowers at least $24
billion in today’s dollars compared with traditional tax-exempt
debt, based on an April Treasury Department report.  “Renewing the program would allow for better relative
performance versus Treasuries because renewal would quell
investors’ fears over supply this year if it were renewed,”
said  Matt Fabian , managing director of Municipal Market
Advisors, a Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm, in a
telephone interview. “But I have a hard time expecting that
would happen because Republicans have been very opposed to it.”  ‘Uphill Climb’  Representative  Dave Camp , the Republican who will take over
the House Ways and Means committee in the next Congress, said
yesterday that the securities were a relic of the “failed
stimulus bill” that “subsidized state and local governments
going deeper into debt.” Sage Eastman, a spokesman for Camp,
said he had no further comment today.  Senator  Jon Kyl , the Arizona Republican who is the party’s
second-highest leader in the chamber, has raised similar
concerns.  “It would be an uphill climb to successfully get Congress
to revive the program,” said  Michael Decker , a lobbyist for the
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association , the
banking and investor trade group, in a telephone interview. The
association has pressed to keep the subsidy in place.  Mica said the bond program may be part of a broader measure
he intends to introduce that would include spending for roads,
transit, railways and waterways.  He said he has been in contact with others in Congress, and
had “great initial discussion” with Ways and Means officials.  “The current program might have been too generous,” Mica
said. “We’ll find something we can get agreement on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net  