-- Bullish Bets on U.S. Financial Stocks Increase to 13-Month High
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-12-17T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/bullish-bets-on-u-s-financial-stocks-increase-to-13-month-high.html
U.S. options traders are making  the
most  bullish wagers on banks in more than a year, speculating
financial companies will rally as the economy improves and
analysts predict 21 percent profit growth next year.  The ratio  of outstanding calls to buy the Financial Select
Sector SPDR Fund versus puts to sell rose by a third since
October to 1.04 and reached 1.15 on Dec. 6, a 13-month high. The
fastest-growing bet is that the ETF tracking  81 lenders  and
brokers including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp.
will jump 29 percent to $20 by June. The fund rose 2 cents to
$15.50 yesterday, extending this year’s gain to 7.6 percent.  Financial shares posted the  second-worst performance  among
10 industry groups in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  over the
past six months as concern about the European debt crisis and
the sustainability of the U.S. economic recovery stymied gains.
They have gained 7.2 percent in December,  the most  of the 10
industries, after companies reported higher-than-estimated
third-quarter earnings and the Federal Reserve announced a
second round of Treasury purchases to spur growth.  “People in the options market are betting heavily that
these stocks will go up,” said  Chris Rich , head options
strategist at JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC in
Chicago. “I’m seeing a lot of smart-money guys buying out-of-
the-money calls in banks. When I see everyone marching in the
same direction at the same time, that’s something I take note
of. It’s a strong signal.”  Loans, Rates  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., based in New York, raised its
rating on  financial stocks  to “overweight” from “neutral” on
Dec. 1, saying stock gains will be driven by loan demand and
improving net interest rates as well as the return of cash to
shareholders through dividends and buybacks. The firm’s
economists increased their forecasts for U.S. and global growth
in 2011 and predicted an acceleration in 2012.  “Financials provide attractive upside to an improving
growth outlook at reasonable valuation,” strategist  David Kostin  wrote in the report. “Stronger economic growth and a
more supportive interest rate environment are positive for both
loan demand and pricing.”  The cost of options on the ETF has tumbled to the lowest
level since April.  Implied volatility , the key gauge of option
prices, for at-the-money options expiring in 30 days fell to
20.96 yesterday, down by more than half since this year’s peak
of 46.46 in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bullish Contracts  Total open interest for calls on the financials ETF has
climbed 13 percent since the last options expiration a month ago
to 3.54 million, compared with 3.39 million puts -- and the
number has been higher for calls for the past three weeks.  The open interest for the fastest-growing bets, June $20
calls, has jumped to 252,516 contracts from zero at the end of
October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The next
biggest gain was for January $16 calls, which rose to 384,796
from 148,977 in October, followed by the December $16 calls,
which increased to 355,767.  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, the  worst
performer  in the Dow Jones Industrial Average over the past six
months, has rallied 14 percent since falling to an 18-month low
on Nov. 30. That is the second-biggest gain this month among the
30 Dow companies and almost triple the S&P 500’s performance
during the same period.  Fee Caps  The prospect of increased regulation could hold back the
shares. San Francisco-based Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc. in
Purchase, New York, owners of the world’s two biggest payment
networks, plunged more than 10 percent yesterday in U.S. stock
trading after the Federal Reserve Board proposed rules that
could slash debit-card interchange fees by 90 percent. Financial
shares sank in January after President  Barack Obama  proposed a
financial-industry overhaul.  Financial companies may be worth buying again after they
increased share repurchases and boosted payouts to owners,
according to  Jeff Saut , who helps manage $240 billion as chief
investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates in St.
Petersburg, Florida.  The Fed issued guidelines last month for supervisors to use
in assessing whether banks are strong enough to boost dividends
and buy back shares. Comerica Inc., the Dallas-based bank that
posted annual profits throughout the financial crisis, increased
its  quarterly payout  to 10 cents a share on Nov. 16. Comerica
also authorized the repurchase of as much as 7 percent of stock
outstanding.  Howard Atkins , the chief financial officer of San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co., said in October that a
dividend increase is a “top priority” for the bank. JPMorgan
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said he was “reasonably
hopeful” the New York-based bank will be able to raise its
payment in the first quarter of 2011 and that regulators were
open to the idea.  “There will be a turnaround in banks,” said  Harvey Neiman , who oversees $22 million including options strategies as
president of Neiman Funds in Rancho Santa Fe, California. “The
reduction of debt and the stabilization of the whole mortgage
industry will drive it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 