-- Sell December 2011 U.S. Oil Futures on Refining `Overkill,' JPMorgan Says
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2010-12-17T02:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/buy-december-2011-brent-oil-sell-same-wti-jpmorgan-recommends.html
Investors should sell West Texas
Intermediate crude for December 2011 and buy Brent contracts for
the same month as the discount of New York futures to the London
benchmark widens, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  U.S. oil futures, which topped a 26-month high above $90 a
barrel last week, may lag behind gains in Brent as refiners
boost processing too quickly and damp profits, said analysts at
the second-largest U.S. bank by assets. The discount of West
Texas to Brent yesterday climbed to $4.01, the biggest since
Sept. 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Strong demand generates high margins, which in return
leads to a ramp-up of refinery capacity,” analysts led by New
York-based  Lawrence Eagles  said in a report dated yesterday.
“The stronger the increase in margins, the more likely it is
that refiners will respond by a combined overkill. We think that
is happening now.”  Oil has risen 11 percent on the New York Mercantile
Exchange this year, outpaced by an 18 percent surge in Brent
contracts traded on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
New York crude is the second-slowest 2010 gainer among 22
commodities tracked by Bloomberg, ranking behind heating oil and
gasoline.  Rising Demand  Refiners in Asia have completed seasonal plant maintenance
and may produce more fuel to meet rising demand for diesel and
naphtha, according to JPMorgan. Cold weather has boosted
heating-oil consumption in Europe and the U.S. East Coast.  This “has led the crude and products market to behave in
the same way they did in 2007 to 2008 but this time around, with
ample surplus refining capacity in place, we think the
adjustment will be swift,” said the analysts.  New York crude futures almost tripled from below $50 a
barrel to a record high above $147 between January 2007 and July
2008.  Refiners in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude user, last
week raised  processing rates  to 88 percent of capacity, the most
since September, according to the Energy Department. That’s the
highest average for this time of year since 2007.  The tightening supply-demand balance has “not only pushed
crude prices higher, but have created temporary shifts that we
believe will realign in the coming months,” JPMorgan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yee Kai Pin  in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  