-- Buy Akamai, EOG Options on Possible M&A, Goldman Says
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-17T16:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/buy-akamai-eog-options-on-m-a-potential-goldman-sachs-says.html
Investors should buy call options
that expire soon while selling contracts expiring later on
potential merger or acquisition targets like  Akamai Technologies
Inc.  and EOG Resources Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  Derivatives strategists  Maria Grant  and  Katherine Fogertey 
recommended using the strategy on Akamai and EOG, as well as
Allergan Inc., Joy Global Inc., DirecTV and EMC Corp., because
the potential that the companies may be bought “is not being
adequately priced into” the options.  “We have seen an increased focus on M&A potential in the
options market over the course of 2010, as investors have become
more comfortable with the economic backdrop in the U.S. and M&A
volumes have begun to accelerate,” Grant and Fogertey, who are
based in New York, wrote in a note today. “For the companies
our analysts view as the most likely M&A candidates, we have
started to see evidence of a modest amount of pre-positioning
for M&A with options.”  Announced takeovers involving a U.S. company have risen to
$910.8 billion year to date, compared with $804.2 billion in all
of 2009, while the number of deals this year is up to 9,133 from
7,691, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Using options to
bet on buyouts makes sense because target companies soar by an
average of 35 percent after merger announcements, Grant wrote.  Akamai Strangles  Grant recommended buying February $52.50 calls on Akamai
while selling both the January 2012 $40 put and $65 call, a
strategy known as a “strangle” that profits from falling
volatility. For EOG, she recommended buying April $95 calls
while selling the January 2012 $80 put and $120 call.  Akamai, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based supplier of
software and services to make websites load faster, has a “high
probability” of being acquired at a premium of about 20 percent
because its business model is “attractive” to the biggest
telecommunications and technology companies, the report said,
citing Goldman Sachs Software analyst  Derek Bingham .  EOG, the Houston-based oil and gas producer, may attract a
19 percent premium amid increased consolidation in the industry
next year, the report said, citing analyst  Brian Singer .  “Brian believes the combination of a multiyear downturn in
returns for gas-focused E&Ps and continued attractiveness of US
oil/gas shale assets will lead to greater corporate
consolidation in the next two years,” the report said. “While
he still expects more joint ventures in natural gas, he also
sees the potential for a pickup in corporate sellers.”  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that  volatility , or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 