-- Cameron Urges Restraint Over ‘Galling’ Bank Bonuses
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-12-17T16:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/cameron-urges-u-k-banks-to-show-restraint-over-galling-bonus-payments.html
Prime Minister David Cameron urged
banks to show restraint over “unjustified” bonuses and
suggested they might face higher taxes unless they comply.  Britons confronting years of budget austerity find it
“galling” to see banks paying large bonuses after billions of
pounds of public money was used to bail out the biggest lenders,
Cameron told a news conference in Brussels today.  “I do believe in social responsibility,” Cameron said.
“People do have to think of their responsibilities when they
make these decisions. Every decision like that makes it more
difficult to keep a tax regime that they might favor.”  Executives from Britain’s four largest banks -- Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Barclays Plc
and HSBC Holdings Plc -- will meet with Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne and Business Secretary  Vince Cable  next
week as part of regular discussions, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  Two years after taxpayers invested, loaned or pledged
almost 1 trillion pounds ($1.55 trillion) to shore up the
British financial system, banks are set to pay as much as 7
billion pounds in bonuses for 2010, according to the Centre for
Economics & Business Research Ltd.  While that’s down from a peak of 11.6 billion pounds in
2007, pressure is mounting on the government as it prepares to
eliminate more than 300,000 public-sector jobs and raise value-
added tax on sales to tackle the record budget deficit.  ‘Questionable’  “Whether or not this is going to significantly alter the
landscape in terms of overall compensation is questionable,”
 Chris Roebuck , a visiting professor at Cass Business School in
London, said in a telephone interview. “The banks are looking
at the bonus issue from running a commercial organization. The
government is looking at it from a point of view of getting the
economy and the politics of it because they want to win votes.”  Cameron kept the top 50 percent income-tax rate introduced
by the previous Labour administration and from January the
government will introduce a 2.5 billion-pound levy on bank
balance sheets.  Further taxes on the financial-services industry risk
driving companies out of London and deterring those who might be
considering moving to the U.K.,  Stuart Fraser , policy chairman
at the City of London Corporation, warned this week.  Cameron’s comments echo those of his Liberal Democrat
deputy,  Nick Clegg , who said in an interview published today the
government “cannot stand idly by” if banks fail to rein in
bonus payments and boost lending to small companies.  ‘Wholly Untenable’  “It is wholly untenable to have millions of people making
sacrifices in their living standards, only to see the banks
getting away scot-free,” Clegg told the Financial Times
newspaper.  The opposition Labour Party accused Clegg of using the
issue of bonuses to appeal to Liberal Democrats angry that he
reneged on a pre-election promise not to increase university
tuition fees. The Liberal Democrats joined Cameron’s
Conservatives in a coalition government after inconclusive
elections in May.  “Nick Clegg’s hot air on bankers’ bonuses is designed to
rehabilitate a tarnished reputation,” Labour’s Treasury
spokesman,  Alan Johnson , said in a statement. “But he is deputy
prime minister in an administration that will not even apply
regulations that Labour introduced requiring banks to notify the
public about individual bonuses in excess of 1 million pounds.”  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority today approved
rules restricting guaranteed bonuses and up-front cash payments
for banks’ proprietary traders and broker-dealers.  It proposed financial firms be split into four groups based
on their size. The strictest rules will apply to firms with
“significant” proprietary trading and investment banking
units, the FSA said.  The Bank of England also warned lenders today to show
“restraint” when distributing profit to employees so firms can
retain earnings and rebuild capital reserves depleted by the
credit crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kitty Donaldson  in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  