-- Canadian Currency Drops to Two-Week Low as Investors' Risk Appetite Fades
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-17T22:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/canada-s-dollar-drops-for-second-day-versus-greenback-as-crude-oil-falls.html
Canada’s dollar fell to a two-week
low versus the greenback as concern Europe’s debt crisis will
broaden damped investors’ risk appetite and U.S. Treasury yields
near seven-month highs made the U.S. currency more attractive.  The Canadian currency lost for the second straight week
versus its U.S. counterpart, which rose today versus most major
peers including the euro and the Australian dollar as Ireland’s
credit rating was cut five levels. Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce suggested policy makers consider selling Canadian
dollars to curb longer-term gains in the currency.  “Problems in Ireland, with the downgrade this morning,
have provided the stimulus for a move toward risk aversion and
buying U.S. dollars for Treasuries as a safe haven,” said
 Darren Richardson , senior corporate dealer in Toronto at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer. “Canada,
the Aussie and the euro have all taken hits.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, slid 0.8 percent
to C$1.0140 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.0061
yesterday. It touched C$1.0147, the weakest level since Dec. 2.
The currency, which fell 0.5 percent for the week, reached
C$1.0001 on Dec. 15, the strongest level since it last traded at
parity with the greenback on Nov. 11. One Canadian dollar buys
98.62 U.S. cents.  The Canadian currency “ran into very good selling interest
in the C$1.01 area,”  Shaun Osborne , Toronto-based chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
unit, wrote in an e-mail.  Gain for Year  The loonie gained 4.4 percent over the past year in a
measure of 10 developed-nation currencies, Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes showed. The Australian
dollar climbed 11 percent, while the greenback fell 1.8 percent
and the euro tumbled 10 percent.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  may want to consider
selling Canadian dollars as an option to temper gains in the
currency driven by purchases by other central banks,  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at CIBC, wrote in a report today.  The loonie’s strength undermines Carney’s ability to raise
interest rates to slow increasing household debt levels,
Shenfeld said in the report. Further gains in the currency may
slow growth, he said.  “There is one weapon yet to be touched: fighting fire with
fire,” Shenfeld wrote. “Canada could match foreign central-
bank intervention in favor of our currency with an offsetting
intervention, selling an equivalent volume of loonies.”  The call for the Bank of Canada to intervene “could have
some impact in thin markets,”  David Watt , senior currency
strategist in Toronto at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets, wrote in an e-mail.  ‘Rather Modest’  “However, the Canadian-dollar moves have been rather
modest of late, and its performance over the last 24 hours is
consistent with the Australian dollar and the New Zealand
dollar, so it might just be that we had some overnight catch-
up,” Watt wrote.  Canadian government bonds rose, pushing yields on the
benchmark  10-year note  down eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3.19 percent. They touched 3.16 percent,
the lowest level since Dec. 7. The price of the 3.5 percent
security due in June 2020 increased 65 cents to C$102.54.  Stocks and crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fluctuated.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  was little changed after
falling 0.4 percent. Crude for January delivery fell as much as
0.8 percent to $87.01 a barrel in New York before trading at
$88.02. It touched $86.83 on Dec. 15, the lowest since Dec. 2.  Seven-Month High  Treasury 10-year  yields traded at 3.33 percent, after
reaching 3.56 percent yesterday, the highest level since May 13.
They closed at 2.80 percent on Nov. 30.  Currencies of growth-linked nations including Canada, New
Zealand and Australia fell versus the greenback today on concern
a European Union summit didn’t produce enough to keep sovereign-
debt problems from spreading in the region. While EU leaders
agreed to amend the bloc’s treaties to create a permanent debt-
crisis mechanism in 2013, they struggled to bridge divisions
over immediate steps to stabilize bond markets.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Ireland’s credit
rating to Baa1 today from Aa2 after the government was forced to
ask for external aid last month, staggered by losses in the
country’s banking system. The new rating is just three level
above non-investment grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  