-- Cantor Fitzgerald Said to Name Credit Suisse's Kessler as Head of Equities
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-17T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/cantor-fitzgerald-said-to-name-credit-suisse-s-kessler-as-head-of-equities.html
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, the bond
broker transforming itself into a full-service investment bank,
named  Jarred Kessler  of Credit Suisse Group AG as global head of
equities, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Kessler replaces  Kenneth Savio , who will remain with the
firm, according to two of the people, who declined to be
identified because the company hasn’t publicly disclosed the
information. Kessler will start in February, the people said.
Cantor hired Savio, formerly a senior managing director at Bear
Stearns Cos., in September 2009.  Kessler declined to comment. Savio didn’t respond to two
telephone calls seeking comment. Sandra Lee, a spokeswoman for
New York-based Cantor, and  Karen Laureano-Rikardsen , a
spokeswoman for Zurich-based Credit Suisse in New York, said the
companies don’t comment on personnel issues.  Cantor Fitzgerald, a 65-year-old private partnership with
about 1,400 employees that is 1 of 18 primary dealers authorized
to trade U.S. government securities with the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York, has expanded its equity, fixed-income and
investment-banking businesses as larger rivals cut staff during
the financial crisis. Chief Executive Officer  Howard W. Lutnick 
told Bloomberg Businessweek in October that he would like to
take the firm public within the next two years.  “They’ve been building their market share, but equities
has been a more difficult business to build,” said  Richard Lipstein , a managing director at headhunter Boyden Global
Executive Search in New York. “They’re one of the more recent
entrants into that business.”  Savio spent more than 20 years at Bear Stearns before the
firm collapsed in March 2008. He also was co-head of global
equities at broker-dealer BTIG LLC and head of equity trading at
Guggenheim Securities LLC in New York before joining Cantor, the
firm said in a 2009 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 