-- Carlsberg Chief Is Confident of Growth in Russia as He Bets on Recovery
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2010-12-17T14:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/carlsberg-chief-is-confident-of-growth-in-russia-as-he-bets-on-recovery.html
Carlsberg AS , the maker of Baltika
beer, is confident of growing market share in Russia as it bets
on a recovery in 2011 whilst preparing to raise beer prices in
the face of rising costs and a tax increase.  “I’m still confident we can continue on this track to grow
share,” Chief Executive Officer  Joergen Buhl Rasmussen  said
today in an interview with Bloomberg News in London. “A place
like Russia is out of the crisis faster than most of the western
European markets. We’re extremely optimistic about what we are
likely to see in eastern Europe, which is a big area for us. If
anything, it’s going to get slightly better again in 2011.”  Carlsberg, the biggest brewer in Russia, raised prices in
the country this month, and will do so again in 2011 to
compensate for soaring malt and barley expenses and a tax
increase of about 10 percent on beer in 2011, Rasmussen said. He
declined to comment on a specific target for price increases.  “It’ll vary a lot by segment and brand,” the CEO said.
The brewer expects the Russian beer market to “move to the plus
side for next year.” Rasmussen said he’d comment further on
Carlsberg’s outlook in February, when the Copenhagen-based
company is due to release full-year results.  Carlsberg, which gets 52 percent of operating profit from
 eastern Europe , is looking to Russia for growth to offset
sluggish demand in western Europe. Russia’s beer market will
grow 2.1 percent by volume in 2011, according to Mintel
estimates. The country is the fourth-biggest beer consumer in
the world, behind China, the U.S. and Brazil, Mintel data shows.  Lower Market Share  “Looking at the next five years, we think Russia probably
has the best growth in its profit pool of all the beer
markets,” said  Ian Shackleton , an analyst at Nomura in London.  Carlsberg  rose  as much as 1.6 percent in Copenhagen trading
and was up 1.5 percent at 563.5 kroner at 3:30 p.m.  Russia is proving attractive to consumer-goods makers as
government austerity measures and unemployment hinder growth in
developed markets including western Europe and the U.S. PepsiCo
Inc. agreed this month to buy a controlling stake in Wimm-Bill-
Dann Dairy & Juice Co. for $3.8 billion. The economy is set to
grow 4.2 percent in 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Carlsberg, which said in November that its share of the
Russian beer market slid 0.8 percentage point to about 39
percent in the first nine months of 2010, is the biggest brewer
in the country, ahead of Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, Heineken NV,
Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayi AS and SABMiller Plc.  Price Increases  Beer sales slumped in Russia this year after the government
raised taxes 200 percent on the beverage in January. Carlsberg,
which had previously estimated the market would show a “low
double-digit” percentage decline, now sees a “mid-single-
digit” fall this year. Taxes on beer will rise again in
January, from nine rubles (29 cents) to 10 rubles. This, plus
soaring costs of wheat and barley, will lead to price increases.  Raising prices “should be easier this time” as the
increase in taxes is less than in 2010, Shackleton said.  Prices increases by SABMiller and Anadolu Efes in November
were probably “catching up” with Carlsberg, Rasmussen said.
The Danish brewer said in November that its market share slid
due to higher price increases than competitors.  Any price increases next year “will not change the
consumer dynamic,” the CEO said. “I have no doubt” that
Russian consumers will continue to buy beer, he said.  ‘Lot of Growth’  Beer consumption has fallen from a high of about 79 or 80
liters per capita to 65, Rasmussen said.  “I can’t see it staying at 65,” he said. “There’s a lot
of growth to come from volume, and on top of that, value growth.
You can hopefully improve the mix and add more premium products.
Long term, this market has so much potential.”  Rasmussen also said Carlsberg may consider buying a further
stake in Chongqing Brewery Co. after China’s government approved
an increase in its shareholding, paving the way for further
expansion in the world’s most population nation.  “What I would like to do, if at all possible, is to expand
the collaboration with the Chongqing government,” he said. The
brewer might consider buying additional shares in the Chinese
company among other options.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 