-- CDR Financial's Rubin Seeks to Move Muni Bid-Rigging Case to Los Angeles
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/cdr-financial-s-rubin-seeks-to-move-muni-bid-rigging-case-to-los-angeles.html
CDR Financial Products founder  David Rubin , facing federal charges of rigging bids in the municipal
bond market, asked a judge in New York to transfer the case to
Los Angeles so he can care for his wife, who has cancer, and
four children at home.  The investment broker and two company executives are
charged with conspiring with banks to manipulate bids on
contracts with local governments to invest the proceeds of bond
issues. The indictment claimed that CDR and its employees, who
handled the bidding, chose winners in exchange for kickbacks.  “A trial that of this case in New York would force Mr.
Rubin to spend substantial time away from home would jeopardize
his wife’s health, his children’s well-being and his ability to
participate in his defense,” his lawyer,  Laura Hoguet , wrote in
a motion filed Dec 15.  Los Angeles-based CDR was the first firm to face charges in
the U.S. government’s criminal investigation of anticompetitive
practices on investment contracts. Three former employees of  UBS
AG  and three former employees of a  General Electric  Co. unit
have also been charged. All have denied wrongdoing.  Prosecutors say the bid-rigging cheated taxpayers from
California to Pennsylvania because bond money was invested at
below-market rates.  Z. Stewart Wolmark , CDR’s former chief financial officer,
and  Evan Zarefsky , a former vice president, also live in Los
Angeles and have children at home. They joined Rubin’s motion.  Witness Testimony  Potential witnesses, including two former CDR employees who
have pleaded guilty, live in California, Hoguet wrote in the
motion. Potential character witnesses who may testify regarding
the defendants’ civic and religious activities live in Los
Angeles, she said.  Others, like five former employees of Bank of America
Corp., don’t live in New York. They have given statements to the
government regarding alleged kickbacks, Hoguet wrote. They
include two former heads of the bank’s municipal derivatives
group,  Phil Murphy  and  Dean Pinard , whom Rubin’s lawyers said
they believe live in North Carolina.  In addition, the largest number of municipalities allegedly
defrauded, 38, were in California, Hoguet said.  The case is U.S. v. Rubin/Chambers, Dunhill Insurance
Services Inc., 09-CR-01058, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  