-- Cebu Air Plunges 25% After Philippine Broker Enters Erroneous Sell Order
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2010-12-17T10:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/cebu-air-shares-plunge-in-manila-amid-speculation-of-erroneous-sell-order.html
Cebu Air Inc. , the Philippines’s
largest budget carrier, plunged 25 percent in intraday stock
trading in Manila after First Resources Management & Securities
Corp. entered an erroneous sell order.  “My trader made a mistake,” the Manila-based brokerage’s
Managing Director  Vivian Yuchengco  said in a text-message reply
to questions from Bloomberg News. She answered “yes” when
asked whether First Resources entered an order to sell shares at
82 pesos. The stock recovered to close at 106 pesos, 3.6 percent
down. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index gained 0.4 percent.  Shares of  Cebu Air  have dropped every day since Dec. 7 when
the Philippine Board of Investments said  AirAsia Bhd. , Southeast
Asia’s biggest budget carrier, plans to form a Philippine unit
that will service domestic and international routes. Cebu Air
has slumped 16 percent since then, erasing about 12 billion
pesos ($271 million) of market value.  JG Summit Holdings Inc., Cebu Air’s parent, bought 300,00
shares of the carrier today as the stock was “severely
undervalued,” President  Lance Gokongwei  said in an interview.  The shares have been declining “given the perception of
increased competition” and JG Summit decided to “step in,”
Gokongwei said. JG Summit purchased 40,000 shares at 105 pesos
and 260,000 shares at 106 pesos, based on a company disclosure.  AirAsia Competition  AirAsia’s Philippine venture will start flights as early as
August, Chief Executive Officer  Tony Fernandes  told reporters
yesterday. AirAsia’s partner in the venture is businessman
 Antonio Cojuangco , a cousin of President  Benigno Aquino  and
nephew of San Miguel Corp. Chairman  Eduardo Cojuangco .  Cebu Air and  JG Summit  raised about 23.33 billion pesos in
an initial share sale earlier this year, the nation’s biggest
since 2005. The airline posted a 4.83 billion peso nine-month
profit, more than double the net income it posted a year earlier.  The shares have declined from their 125 peso initial share
sale price on expectations the airline will not sustain earnings
growth that was partly driven by cost-savings, said  Peter Lee ,
senior investment officer at Manila-based IGC Securities Inc.  “Margins will become tighter with AirAsia’s entry,” Lee
said.  JG Summit gained 2.1 percent to 20.40 pesos after earlier
falling as much as 5.9 percent.  PAL Holdings Inc. , which owns
Philippine Airlines, climbed 5 percent to 4.20 pesos, the
steepest gain since Nov. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian C. Sayson  in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  