-- Cephalon Chief Executive Baldino Dies After Being on Leave Since August
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2010-12-17T21:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/cephalon-chief-executive-baldino-dies-after-being-on-leave-since-august.html
Cephalon Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Frank Baldino Jr ., a founder who helped the company grow
from a start-up to a drugmaker with $2.2 billion in sales, died
yesterday after being on medical leave since August.  Baldino, 57, who was also chairman, founded the Frazer,
Pennsylvania-based maker of sleep and pain drugs in 1987.  Fritz Bittenbender , a company spokesman, declined to identify a cause
of death, or to discuss a successor. Chief Operating Officer J.
 Kevin Buchi  has handled Baldino’s duties since he went on leave.  Cephalon made its first profit in the third quarter of
2001, driven by sales of Provigil, a narcolepsy drug. When the
company acquired the drug in 1993, analysts estimated it would
generate no more than $50 million in yearly sales, said  Eric Schmidt , a Cowen & Co. analyst in New York. Last year, Provigil
generated $1.02 billion, or about half of Cephalon’s revenue.  “Cephalon’s products are all stuff Frank found by looking
under rocks and buying things no one believed in,” Schmidt said
in a telephone interview today. “That’s why I think he, more
than any CEO, deserves credit for his company’s success. More
than any other CEO, he was responsible for creating Cephalon.”  Two decades after Cephalon’s founding, the company had a
market cap of $4.7 billion before today and eight products in
the U.S. for treating central nervous system disorders, cancer
and pain, according to the company’s Web site.  Cephalon rose $2.13, or 3.4 percent, to $65.24 at 4:02 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares gained
4.5 percent this year.  Research Biologist  Baldino began his career as a research biologist at E.I.
DuPont de Nemours & Co. from 1981 to 1987, where he identified
research strategies for identifying novel molecules. He received
his Ph.D in pharmacology from Temple University in Philadelphia.  “In deference to him, we’re not going to discuss a CEO
search in the near future,” Cephalon’s Bittenbeder said in a
telephone interview. “Right now our major focus is on the
grieving going on at the company.”  On Dec. 8, Cephalon Inc. took a 20 percent stake in
Mesoblast Ltd. and bought the rights to market the Australian
company’s adult stem-cell therapies for heart and nervous system
conditions in a deal potentially worth more than $2 billion. The
agreement is the biggest involving stem-cell therapies.  The drugmaker also is developing treatments for cancer,
pain, arthritis, inflammatory conditions, and nervous system
ailments, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Lopatto  in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 