-- Chanos Says China Property Boom `Unabated' as Market Defies Cooling Steps
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-17T07:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/chanos-says-china-property-boom-unabated-as-market-defies-cooling-steps.html
China’s property boom continues
“unabated” and has even picked up since the government enacted
policies to cool speculation, said  Jim Chanos , the hedge-fund
manager who predicted the market may crash as early as 2010.  Home prices  in 70 Chinese cities climbed 7.7 percent in
November from a year earlier, even after the government
suspended mortgages for third-home purchases and pledged to
introduce a property tax. Sales volume jumped 14.5 percent.  “A lot of regulations in China, they are designed to be
skirted,” Chanos said in an interview with  Carol Massar  and
 Matt Miller  on Bloomberg Television’s Street Smart program.
“The boom has continued to be unabated. It’s actually even
picked up a little bit recently towards the end of year.”  Chanos repeated his view that China is on a “treadmill to
hell” because of the country’s reliance on property development
for economic growth. Millions of apartments remain empty in the
nation as speculators dominate the market, said Chanos, who also
described China’s property bubble as “Dubai times 1,000.”  China’s central bank raised bank reserve requirements on
Dec. 10 for the third time in five weeks to tame inflation and
restrain foreign capital, and increased interest rates for the
first time in three years in October.  A gauge tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai Composite
Index  fell 0.6 percent to a one-week low at the 3 p.m. close.
China Vanke Co. dropped 0.4 percent on the Shenzhen exchange,
while Poly Real Estate Group Co. declined 0.6 percent in
Shanghai.  Further Gains  While the year-on-year advance in November property prices
was the slowest in a year, values increased for an 18th straight
month, according to government data.  China Vanke , the nation’s biggest publicly traded
developer, said earlier this month it became the first Chinese
developer to post annual sales of 100 billion yuan ($15
billion), reaching a target it had set for 2014 and defying
government measures to cool the real-estate market.  Chanos, who was one of the first investors to foresee the
2001 collapse of Houston-based energy company Enron Corp., said
some Chinese developers are getting more leveraged and are
taking more money from international investors, providing
opportunities for hedge funds. He didn’t name specific stocks.  “They all look very interesting from a short-sellers
perspective,” said Chanos, founder of Kynikos Associates LP.
“The western investor is the one who’s going to end up holding
the real estate bag here.”  ‘A Little Extreme’  Some brokerages remained upbeat about China’s real estate
market. Citigroup Inc. said this week the country’s plan to
boost social welfare housing should be positive for real estate
as the government will want a “stable” property market, and it
maintained its “bullish view.”  Chanos’s view is “a little extreme,”  Glenn Rufrano ,
president and chief executive officer of Cushman & Wakefield
Inc., the world’s largest privately held real estate services
company, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The economy
is growing and has been growing and the real estate market is
increasing in value. The government knows this and they are
getting ahead of it.”  Joining Vanke,  Shanghai Forte Land Co.  said this month its
sales volume reached 12.6 billion yuan by November, exceeding
its annual revenue target of 11.5 billion.  Shimao Property
Holdings Ltd.  said it achieved 91 percent of this year’s 30
billion yuan sales target by the end of last month.  China’s property stocks have fallen following the
government’s policies. The gauge of property stocks lost 26
percent this year, more than twice the decline on the benchmark
measure and the most among five industry groups.  Curbing Prices  The Chinese government won’t loosen measures aimed at
curbing real estate prices next year because of the continuing
risk of a bubble, Vanke Chairman  Wang Shi  said, Reuters reported
yesterday. The measures have made some progress and moderating
the pace of property gains would be an achievement, Wang said,
the report said.  China will strengthen the controls on the real estate
market and curb speculative investment from next year through
2015, Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing China’s Ministry
of Housing and Urban-Rural Development.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Andreea Papuc ,  Allen Wan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Bonnie Cao  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  