-- Chavez Granted Decree Powers for 18 Months by Venezuelan National Assembly
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2010-12-17T22:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/chavez-wins-extended-decree-powers-in-venezuela-as-power-wanes-in-congress.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
today was granted decree powers to pass laws without
congressional authorization for the next 18 months, after pro-
government lawmakers extended the period from the originally
proposed 12 months at the last minute.  Chavez says he needs the enabling law to fast-track
legislation and raise funding for relief efforts after heavy
rains killed 35 people and left 130,000 in government shelters.
His opponents say he’s using the rains as an excuse to weaken
the new congress after losing his two-thirds majority in
September. The new lawmakers take office Jan. 5  “People displaced by the rains are wondering what will
happen to them after a year, so we propose that we extend the
decree powers to 18 months,” Cilia Flores, head of the National
Assembly and a lawmaker from Chavez’s  United Socialist Party 
said today on ANTV. “The displaced asked us to modify the time
period.”  Chavez, who has ruled by decree three previous times during
his nearly 12 years in office, will raise the value-added tax to
finance plans to build homes for the displaced by rains and to
help farmers whose crops were destroyed. The damage from the
flooding may reach $10 billion, he said Dec. 14.  Agenda, Challenge  The government already has a group of 20 laws ready to be
passed by decree, Chavez said yesterday, during a visit to a
future housing project next to the Maiquetia international
airport outside of Caracas.  The  National Assembly , which currently consists of about 95
percent of pro-Chavez legislators, authorized Chavez to pass
laws in infrastructure, housing, finance and taxes, defense,
international cooperation and the nation’s socio-economic
system.  Chavez suffered his biggest electoral defeat in
congressional elections Sept. 26, and with it the headcount
necessary to pass the national budget, new laws, and obtain
decree powers without consulting the opposition.  He lost the overall popular vote, despite winning a
majority of seats due to gerrymandering of voting districts.  “You’re abolishing the legislative activity of the next
assembly,” said  Tomas Sanchez , a lawmaker with the Green Party
said on ANTV. “I challenge you to just dissolve the assembly.”  Resources, Intent  The last time the 56-year old president ruled by decree
during 18 months, he passed 26 laws on the last day including
tighter regulation over the banking sector and severe fines for
companies deemed to be hoarding food goods.  In addition to laws that Chavez will pass through the
decree powers, the assembly is pushing through a series of laws
before the period ends in telecommunications, banking, Internet
regulation, non-governmental organization funding and political
parties.  The banking law declares the industry of “public
utility,” making it easier for the government to nationalize
institutions, and forces the banks to funnel 5 percent of
profits to a social fund.  “The government is underestimating the price of oil in the
budget next year and has plenty of resources to deal with this
situation, but instead they’re using these decree powers to
raise taxes,” opposition lawmaker Ismael Garcia said today.
“The country needs to know that this is a law to finish pushing
through these laws and has nothing to do with the rains.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Cancel  in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
 Corina Rodriguez Pons  in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  