-- Chavez's Seizures Scuttle Housing Campaign as Venezuelan Steel Output Sags
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2010-12-17T15:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/chavez-s-seizures-scuttle-housing-campaign-as-venezuelan-steel-output-sags.html
President  Hugo Chavez ’s campaign of
nationalizations is scuttling a top policy goal as sagging
output at state-owned steel and cement makers thwarts a pledge
to build 100,000 homes a year for poor Venezuelans.  Lack of supplies from seized companies such as  Siderurgica
del Orinoco SA , Venezuela’s largest steel mill, has slowed
building activity to less than 50 percent of last year’s pace,
according to the Caracas-based Venezuelan  Construction Chamber .
The chamber, which estimates 83 percent of homes are built by
private companies, says 25,510 were finished in the first half
of the year.  “I sometimes have to go to a lot of places to try and find
iron rods and cement,” said Humberto Altuve, a Caracas-based
engineer who is currently working on a university construction
project in Vargas state. “I’ve had to pay three times the
regulated price to make sure my projects aren’t delayed.”  Venezuela’s housing deficit of 2 million units widened
further this month when floods and landslides forced more than
25,000 families to seek refuge in government shelters. Chavez,
who has put up families at the presidential palace and an
expropriated shopping mall, said Dec. 3 that housing is his top
priority.  Close the Deficit  The government aims to close the deficit by building 2
million homes by 2020, the president said yesterday. China’s
 CITIC Construction  and Turkish companies he didn’t name are
pledging to help in the efforts, he said.  Chavez’s homebuilding pledge is aimed at bolstering support
for an expected re-election bid in 2012, said Milton Guzman, an
economist at Caracas-based consultancy Fortuny, Guzman &
Asociados.  “Chavez sees solving the housing issue as his ticket to
winning the elections,” Guzman said in a telephone interview.
“If he can be seen to be providing people with houses it would
give his flagging image a significant boost.”  In September, Chavez suffered his biggest electoral setback
since taking power in 1999 as opposition candidates for
parliament took advantage of voter discontent with 27 percent
inflation and the second year of  recession  to strip him of his
two-third majority.  Former Paratrooper  Since the election, the 56-year-old former paratrooper has
toured the country promising “dignified homes” to millions of
Venezuelans who live in self-built dwellings on hillsides. Many
lack amenities like drainage and are vulnerable to collapse.  “I’m putting myself at the forefront of this operation to
give every family that needs it a proper house on secure land,
whatever it costs,” the self-declared socialist revolutionary
said Nov. 7 in comments broadcast by state television.  The same day, Chavez said he would add $1.5 billion to next
year’s $480 million housing budget. On Dec. 7, after the rains,
he boosted his pledge by another $931 million. To finance the
construction drive, Chavez has said he’ll raise sales taxes.  Chavez is looking to reverse a drop in building that,
according to the construction chamber, fell to an annual average
of 44,285 homes since he came to power compared with an average
69,528 from 1990 to 1998. Housing Minister Ricardo Molina said
on Oct. 28 the government aims to increase the annual average to
100,000 over the next 10 years.  Phone calls and e-mails to the Housing Ministry seeking
comment weren’t returned.  Cement Industry  Chavez nationalized most of his country’s cement industry
in 2008, taking over companies owned by Monterrey, Mexico-based
 Cemex SAB , Paris-based  Lafarge SA  and Jona, Switzerland-based
 Holcim Ltd .  In 2009, he acquired for $1.97 billion steelmaker
Siderurgica del Orinoco, or Sidor based in Ciudad Guyana, from
Luxembourg-based  Ternium SA . On Oct. 31, Chavez ordered the
forced acquisition of Caracas-based Siderurgica del Turbio SA,
which produces 40 percent of the country’s steel rods, after
accusing the company of overcharging for its products. The
company denied the charges and said it adhered to strict price
controls.  Sidor will produce 2.2 million metric tons of steel this
year because of an electricity shortage that forced the
government to ration energy, the company said on Dec. 13. That’s
less than half the output in 2007, when production reached 4.3
million tons.  Alfredo Cohen, whose family’s  Constructora Sambil CA  has
developed residential and commercial properties in Venezuela for
over 50 years, said shortages of steel rods are “very severe.”
A Sambil-built mall in Caracas that was expropriated by Chavez
in 2008 is being used to house families left homeless by the
rains.  “Now you have to pay in advance whereas before you got
credit for 30 to 90 days,” Cohen, general manager of Sambil,
said in a phone interview from company headquarters in Caracas.
“They send you the materials when they have them.”  Help from Belarus  Nationwide production of steel rods declined 20 percent in
September compared with a year ago, according to the  central
bank ’s production index. Cement output fell 40 percent in the
second half of 2009, according to the bank, which hasn’t
published production figures for this year.  Chavez has vowed to keep nationalizing key sectors of the
economy in a bid to drive down prices and increase production.
He has signed bilateral deals with allies in Belarus and Iran to
help solve the housing crisis.  Venezuela, which has the highest inflation rate of 78
economies tracked by Bloomberg, saw prices rise 27 percent in
November from the same period a year ago. The International
Monetary Fund expects Venezuela’s economy to shrink 1.3 percent
this year, compared with a forecast for 5.7 percent growth in
Latin America and the Caribbean.  Housing Seizures  On Oct. 31, Chavez expropriated six housing projects,
saying builders were tricking customers into covering inflation
costs after work was delayed. An emergency housing law being
discussed in the  National Assembly  would grant the government
powers to seize idle or underused land to build houses.  Chavez said Nov. 24 that the government will provide
financing to cement companies to modernize plants and boost
production. Output of steel rods and cement will have to double
to meet government targets, said Gilbert Dao, the vice president
of the construction chamber.  “Those companies need to reach at least a level of
production we had before they began the nationalizations,” Dao
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charlie Devereux  in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  