-- Chi-X Europe Said to Favor Purchase Bids From Nasdaq, Bats Global Markets
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-12-17T15:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/chi-x-europe-said-to-favor-purchase-bids-from-nasdaq-bats-global-markets.html
Chi-X Europe Ltd., which received
takeover bids from the four biggest U.S. stock-exchange
companies, will submit the offers from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  or
 Bats Global Markets  to shareholders, according to people
familiar with the talks.  London-based Chi-X Europe hasn’t made a final decision
about which bid to recommend, said three people who declined to
be identified as the negotiations are private. Chi-X Europe has
received approaches from  NYSE Euronext  and Direct Edge Holdings
LLC as well as  Nasdaq  and  Bats , two people with direct knowledge
of the matter said last week.  Chi-X Europe is an electronic stock market that competes
with traditional exchanges such  London Stock Exchange Group Plc 
and  Deutsche Boerse AG  by offering lower fees and faster
trading. The narrowing of the choice of bids is the next step in
a process that began in August when Chi-X Europe said it
received an “enquiry” about a deal. That approach was from
 Bats , which operates the third-largest U.S. equity market and
Europe’s second-biggest alternative trading system, people
familiar with the situation said at the time.  Region-Wide Platforms  As competition has intensified in the U.S., where as many
as 50 different stock venues compete for brokerage clients,
American companies are looking to Europe, where only Chi-X and
Bats operate region-wide platforms. Acquiring Chi-X would enable
the buyer to compete directly with  LSE  and  Deutsche Boerse .  Julia Streets , a spokeswoman for Chi-X Europe, declined to
comment today.  Randy Williams , a spokesman for Bats,  Richard Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE,  Frank DeMaria , a spokesman for
Nasdaq, and  Rafi Reguer  of Direct Edge also declined to comment.  Chi-X Europe, started in 2007, hired investment bank
Lexicon Partners Ltd. for advice in September, two people with
knowledge of the situation said at the time. In October,  Nasdaq 
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  said the exchange, which
runs seven Nordic and Baltic bourses and the second-largest U.S.
equity exchange, is prepared to consider a  takeover . Chi-X sent
out a memorandum with information to potential suitors, people
familiar with the situation said Nov. 4.  Chi-X Europe is partly owned by Instinet Inc., a New York-
based unit of  Nomura Holdings Inc. , and investment banks and
traders including  Credit Suisse Group AG , Getco LLC, Bank of
America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Bats is owned
by banks and brokers such as Bank of America, Citigroup, Getco,
Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 