-- Chilean Peso Reaches a 31-Month High Following an Interest-Rate Increase
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2010-12-17T17:45:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/chilean-peso-reaches-31-month-high-after-interest-rate-increase.html
The Chilean peso strengthened the
most among Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg this
week, reaching a 31-month high as copper rose and the central
bank lifted its benchmark rate for the seventh straight month.  The peso climbed 0.3 percent to 472.05 per U.S. dollar
today, the highest since May 2008, from 473.25 yesterday. That
contributed to the 0.9 percent gain this week.  The central bank raised its benchmark rate by a quarter
percentage point to 3.25 percent yesterday, the seventh
consecutive month it has increased borrowing costs. In a
statement released after the close of trading, the bank noted
that the peso had appreciated, without adding further comment.  “The central bank is still raising rates and that creates
a greater differential between rates in Chile and in the U.S,.
so we should see appreciation in the medium term,” said
 Cristobal Doberti , an economist at Bice Inversiones in Santiago.
“There was nothing in the statement about intervention or the
currency being misaligned in the short-term.”  The peso’s advance this week beat other Latin America
currencies as well as the South African rand, the Australian
dollar and the Canadian dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Since the end of June, the Chilean peso has led gains
among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Copper, Chile’s biggest export, rose today. The price of a
pound of the metal for March delivery added 0.7 percent to
$4.143 as of 10:58 a.m. on the Comex in New York.  Rate Signal  The central bank’s  rate increase  “sent an unequivocal
signal that rises will continue,” said Aldo Lema, chief
economist at Banco Security in Santiago. “The bank isn’t
implying a pause in January: rates should keep rising at 25
basis points a month until March.”  Growth in consumer spending, an  expanding economy  and
rising copper prices may continue to push the peso upward, Lema
said. He doesn’t expect the central bank to take any measures to
weaken the currency. Instead the bank may say in its monetary
policy report on Dec. 20 that the real exchange rate is in line
with fundamentals, Lema said.  The central bank has increased its benchmark rate from a
record low of 0.5 percent in May. Banco Security forecasts that
the interest rate may approach 6 percent by the end of next
year, Lema said.  Interest-rate swap rates  were little changed at 12:20 p.m.
New York time.  To contact the reporter responsible on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  