-- Datang Renewable Power Declines on Hong Kong Debut as Huaneng Cancels IPO
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2010-12-17T05:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/china-datang-renewable-shares-fall-in-premarket-trading-on-hong-kong-debut.html
China Datang Corp. Renewable Power
Co., the nation’s second-biggest wind-power producer by capacity,
fell on its first day of trading in Hong Kong after a domestic
rival canceled its initial public offering citing volatility.  The  stock  declined as much as 6.9 percent to HK$2.17 and
was at HK$2.18 at the midday break. The benchmark Hang Seng
Index fell 0.2 percent.  The Hang Seng has dropped 9.4 percent from a year-high on
Nov. 8, reflecting investor concerns that China will take more
steps to curb inflation and cool the economy. Datang Renewable
also fell after its IPO prospectus showed many of its wind farms
are in remote areas of China where the local grids don’t have
enough capacity to deliver all the power they can generate.  “Investors are not positive generally about the wind-power
sector in China,” said  Lee Yuk-kei , an analyst at Core Pacific-
Yamaichi International in Hong Kong. “There’s concern about the
amount of wind farms still not connected to the grid, and other
wind companies have not been performing that well in Hong Kong
trading recently.”  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. , the biggest listed wind-
power producer by capacity, has dropped 30 percent this year in
Hong Kong, compared with the 3.4 percent gain in the Hang Seng.
 Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co.  declined 16 percent
since its trading debut on Oct. 8.  Grid constraints in China may leave as much as 4 gigawatts
of wind-power generation capacity lying idle, Sunil Gupta,
managing director for Asia and head of clean energy at Morgan
Stanley, said in November last year.  Falling Shares  Huaneng Renewables Corp. canceled its IPO in Hong Kong on
Dec. 13 because of what it described as unexpected and excessive
market volatility. The company was seeking to raise as much as
$1.3 billion. Yesterday, Chongqing Rural Commercial Bank Co.
fell on its first day of trading in the city.  China wants at least 15 percent of its energy to come from
renewable sources including wind by 2020. The world’s biggest
polluter erected more wind turbines in 2009 than any other
country and may install 18,000 megawatts of wind-power capacity
this year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates show.  Datang Renewable raised the minimum $643 million it sought
from the IPO to expand its wind-power generating capacity and
pay bank loans, according to the prospectus.  The wind-power producer is seeking to post a profit of at
least 405 million yuan ($61 million) this year, compared with
366.9 million yuan in 2009, according to the IPO  prospectus .  China Everbright Ltd., UBS AG, Credit Suisse Group AG,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Macquarie Group Ltd. handled the sale
for the unit of state-controlled China Datang Corp., the
nation’s second-biggest electricity producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net ;
 Fox Hu  in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 