-- Christie Giving Gural Exclusive Chance to Bid on Meadowlands Racetrack
-- B y   D u n s t a n   M c N i c h o l
-- 2010-12-17T22:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/christie-giving-gural-exclusive-chance-to-bid-on-meadowlands-racetrack.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
said he is giving  Jeff Gural , chairman of Newmark Knight Frank
real estate, an exclusive three-month opportunity to prepare a
bid to lease the state’s Meadowlands horse track.  The state will stop running races at the Meadowlands if
there’s no deal by April 1, Christie told reporters today in
Trenton, because what he called the “world headquarters of
harness racing” costs taxpayers about $25 million a year.  Gural , who owns tracks in New York state, will bid with the
Standardbred Breeders and Owners Association of New Jersey.
Putting the 34-year-old Meadowlands in profitable shape will
take $40 million to $50 million, he said.  “It’s an opportunity for us to show that harness racing
can stand on its own two feet,” he said at a press conference
with Christie in the governor’s office in Trenton. “We’re
trying to make it a fun thing, rather than a place to place a
wager.”  The deal may preserve harness racing in New Jersey and
relieve taxpayers and casinos of the need to provide millions of
dollars in annual racing subsidies, Christie said.  Christie and Gural said there is no plan to allow slot
machines or legalized gambling at a privately operated
Meadowlands.  “What we’re trying to do here is allow the Standardbred
owners an opportunity to see if this is something that’s
feasible as a private industry,” Christie said. “We have seen
a plan that looks viable.”  An Expansive Stable  Gural, who owns the Tioga Downs and Vernon Downs tracks in
upstate New York and 100 horses, said he began reviewing the
Meadowlands track’s finances three days ago, and that he thinks
the project can be feasible.  “The Meadowlands is the capital of harness racing,” he
said. “There’s no one even in second place.”  Gural said he hopes to attract patrons by adding
restaurants and amenities. He said he plans to build a smaller,
more modern grandstand to replace the existing structure.  Under the agreement announced today, the New Jersey Sports
and Exposition Authority, operator of the Meadowlands since it
opened in 1976, would run about 75 to 100 racing days through
March 31. The state’s expenses for running those races would be
repaid from revenue the Standardbred owners earn from simulcast
fees at the track.  After March 31, the state will cancel all racing with the
possible exception of the Hambletonian Meet in August if there
isn’t a signed agreement with Gural and the horse association to
take over the track, Christie said.  “We will have the state out of the business,” he said.  Gural and his partners will receive revenues from four off-
track betting parlors, including one under construction in
Bayonne, if they agree to operate the Meadowlands, according to
a summary of the plan released by the governor’s office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dunstan McNichol  in Trenton at 
 dmcnichol@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 