-- CLO Sales to Triple Next Year as New Buyers Enter Market, Wells Fargo Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2010-12-17T12:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/clo-sales-to-triple-next-year-as-new-buyers-enter-market-wells-fargo-says.html
Sales of collateralized loan
obligations may triple next year as the debt gains appeal among
a wider group of investors, according to Wells Fargo & Co.,
which yesterday surpassed JPMorgan Chase & Co. to became the
largest U.S. bank by market value.  Wells Fargo credit analysts predict issuance may surge $12
billion to $15 billion in the U.S. next year and $30 billion in
2012. Funds and banks pool leveraged loans to create bonds that
are divided into portions with varying risk. Bonds at the top of
the CLO structure typically have AAA ratings.  “New and returning buyers will likely enter the CLO
market, as CLOs remain cheap to the underlying assets and cheap
to competing corporate credits,” analysts led by New York-based
 Marielle Jan de Beur  wrote in a research note yesterday. “CLOs
have proved their mettle and their worth over the past three
years.”  The CLO market started to recover in the U.S. with
$4.3 billion raised this year, according to the report. Fund
manager WCAS Fraser Sullivan Investment Management LLC priced
the first deal in March following a 12-month draught in issuance
after investors fled securitized debt during the credit crisis.  Wells Fargo recommends investors buy top-rated notes,
particularly those backed by the loans of mid-sized companies.
The yield premium on AAA-rated notes in the U.S. should tighten
by at least 25 basis points in the first quarter of next year as
new issuance picks up, the analysts said.  Spreads on AAA notes have narrowed about 100 basis points
this year to 200 basis points, according to Wells Fargo data. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  