-- Copper May Advance Next Week With Inventories Lower on Year, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/copper-may-rise-with-inventories-lower-on-year-survey-shows.html
Copper may rise with inventories
heading for the first annual decline in six years, a survey
showed.  Seven of 16 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 44 percent, said the metal will gain next week.
Five predicted lower prices and four forecast little change.
Copper for delivery in three months was up $15, or 0.2 percent,
this week at $9,005 a metric ton as of 4:43 p.m. yesterday on
the London Metal Exchange.  Copper inventories  in warehouses monitored by the LME have
dropped 28 percent this year, on course for the first annual
contraction since 2004. One company held 80 percent to 89
percent of the LME stockpiles as of Dec. 14, according to
the bourse’s Warrant Cash Banding Report, which includes
stockpiles and open positions for the next three trading days.  “The funds are pushing copper up, and there isn’t much
sense in standing in the way,” said  Mark Lewon , vice president
for operations at Utah Metal Works Inc. in Salt Lake City. “It
seems that there is a shortage of the copper on the exchanges.”  Trading will probably slow as year-end approaches, said
Marina Budayeva, an analyst at Sucden Financial Ltd. in
London, forecasting copper to trade between $8,950 and
$9,200 a ton next week.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of Dec. 10.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
55 of the past 116 weeks, or 47 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 7  Bearish : 5 Hold: 4  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 