-- Corporate Bond Sales Rise From Year Ago as Recovery Strengthens
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-12-17T23:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/corporate-bond-issuance-rises-from-year-ago-as-u-s-recovery-strengthens.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp.  and  Bank
of America Corp.  led $15.5 billion of corporate bond sales in
the U.S. this week, pushing monthly issuance past the December
2009 total amid rising confidence in the economic recovery.  Occidental Petroleum, the biggest onshore crude producer in
the continental U.S., sold $2.6 billion of notes in the largest
offering in more than five weeks. Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America issued $1.5 billion of fixed-rate debt in
its first such sale since August.  Corporate bond issuance has climbed to $62.6 billion this
month, surpassing the $58.1 billion sold during all of December
2009, as relative yields on investment-grade company debt
contract to the tightest since May and junk-bond spreads narrow
to levels last seen more than three years ago. Investors are
wagering the U.S. economy’s recovery will accelerate even as
European countries struggle to manage their debts, said  James Barnes , a money manager at National Penn Investors Trust Co.  “What’s winning right now is the possibility that this is
the economic expansion we’ve all been waiting for,” said
Barnes, who helps oversee $1 billion in fixed-income assets in
Wyomissing, Pennsylvania. “The market saw what was going on
overseas and they pushed it to the side.”  The extra yield investors demand to own high-yield, high-
risk, or junk, bonds were unchanged at 554 basis points this
week after trading as low as 540, the narrowest since Nov. 16,
2007, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch High Yield
Master II index. Absolute yields on the debt fell 2 basis points
to 7.91 percent, the index data show.  Greece’s Ratings  High-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and less than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Moody’s cut Ireland’s credit rating five levels to Baa1,
and yesterday placed Greece’s Ba1 bond ratings on review for a
possible downgrade. Spain sold 2.4 billion euros ($3.2 billion)
of bonds, less than its maximum target, as its borrowing costs
surged after Moody’s said it was weighing whether to cut its Aa1
rating on the country.  Spreads on investment-grade corporate bonds shrank 2 basis
points to 169 basis points, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Master Index. The bonds yield 4.12
percent, 3 basis points lower than last week, the index data
show.  Pace Slows  This week’s sales are down from a 2010 average of $22.5
billion and last week’s $30.3 billion, Bloomberg data show.  “With yields going up on Treasuries, that might have put
people off a bit because all-in yields aren’t as attractive as
they used to be earlier this year,” said  Mirko Mikelic , a
senior money manager who helps oversee $14 billion of fixed
income assets at Fifth Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids,
Michigan. “Everybody expects yields to rise, but it has
happened so quickly already.”  The 10-year  Treasury notes , the market bellwether, climbed
to a yield of as much as 3.56 percent on Dec. 16, the highest
since May, after the Federal Reserve said economic recovery is
continuing and maintained its $600 billion of debt purchases.
That’s 99 basis points more than the yield on Nov. 3, the day
the Fed announced its plan, and 6 basis points less than a year
ago.  Speculative-grade borrowers from Swift Transportation Co.
to Syniverse Holdings Inc. sold $4.18 billion of high-yield debt
this week, Bloomberg data show.  Occidental Petroleum Sale  Occidental Petroleum, based in Los Angeles, sold $600
million of three-year notes at a yield 50 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, $700 million of five-year debt at a
60 basis-point spread and $1.3 billion of 10-year bonds at 80
basis points over benchmarks on Dec. 13, Bloomberg data show. It
was the biggest sale since Coca-Cola Co. issued $4.5 billion of
securities on Nov. 4.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender, issued 10-year
notes in its first offering selling $1.5 billion of five-year
debt on Aug. 17, before facing demands from mortgage investors
to repurchase almost $13 billion of loans that may have failed
to document key data such as income and home values.  Borrowers are rushing to issue debt as they take advantage
of low yields before interest rates rise further, said  Chad Morganlander , a Florham Park, New Jersey-based money manager at
Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., which has $90 billion in assets.  “We’re still in the world of cheap money,” Morganlander
said. “The move in Treasury yields from 2.5 percent to 3.5
percent is incentivizing corporate decision makers to accelerate
their issuance after the New Year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 