-- Crude Trades Near Two-Week Low as Equities Slip, Dulling Demand Optimism
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-12-17T10:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/crude-trades-near-two-week-low-as-equities-slip-dulling-demand-optimism.html
Oil rose from the lowest in two
weeks after an unexpected decline in U.S. claims for jobless
benefits and gains in housing starts bolstered the economic
outlook for the world’s largest crude user.  Oil climbed as much as 0.8 percent after the Labor
Department said yesterday that applications for unemployment
insurance dropped to the lowest in three weeks. The dollar
extended losses against the euro as investors grew more
confident that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will be contained.
A weaker U.S. currency enhances commodities’ investment appeal.  “Positive economic data is supporting the market,” said
 Tobias Merath , head of commodities at Credit Suisse Group in
Zurich. “The physical market is tightening a little bit with
the colder temperatures. But looking further into the future,
inventories are still high, so I don’t know much further upside
there is.”  Crude for January delivery increased as much as 67 cents to
$88.37 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. The contract, which expires Dec. 20, was at $87.92 at
10:14 a.m. London time. Brent crude for February settlement rose
as much as 0.6 percent to $92.15 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Yesterday, crude fell 1 percent in New York to $87.70, the
lowest settlement since Dec. 1. Futures have gained 0.5 percent
this week after losing 1.6 percent last week.  U.S. Data  U.S. applications for  jobless-insurance  payments fell to
420,000, the Labor Department said. Economists had projected a
median increase in claims to 425,000, based on a Bloomberg News
survey. Builders in November began work on more homes for the
first time in three months. Housing starts rose to a 555,000
annual rate last month, up 3.9 percent from October, Commerce
Department data showed yesterday.  The euro advanced against the dollar for a second day as
European Union leaders agreed to create a mechanism to contain
future debt shocks and the European Central Bank armed itself
with more capital. The 16-nation currency rose as much as 0.9
percent to $1.3359, from $1.3244 in New York yesterday.  “People are saying the economy is picking up, and if that
is the point, it should lead to either higher demand for crude,
or the U.S. dollar trading higher as people get more
confident,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of
Commodity Broking Services in Sydney.  Oil may decline next week on speculation the U.S. Energy
Department will report an increase in supplies after the biggest
drawdown in more than eight years in this week’s data.  Eighteen of 34 analysts and traders, or 53 percent,
forecast crude will fall through Dec. 23. Nine respondents, or
26 percent, predicted prices will climb and seven estimated
there will be little change. Last week, 46 percent of survey
respondents forecast the market would drop.  U.S.  crude stockpiles  fell 9.85 million barrels in the week
ended Dec. 10 to 346 million, according to the Energy
Department. That’s the biggest decrease since May 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  