-- Cumulus Offers $2.1 Billion for Citadel Broadcasting
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n
-- 2010-12-17T21:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/cumulus-offers-2-1-billion-to-buy-larger-radio-rival-citadel-broadcasting.html
Cumulus Media Inc. , the U.S. radio-
station owner, offered to buy larger rival  Citadel Broadcasting
Corp.  for $2.1 billion to expand its coverage and reduce costs.  The offer, equal to $31 a share, consists of Cumulus stock
and as much as $1 billion in cash, according to a statement from
Cumulus today. That’s 5.5 percent more than the closing price of
Las Vegas-based Citadel’s B shares yesterday and 12 percent more
than the stock’s level before Dec. 6, when Citadel said it had
rejected two offers from an unidentified party.  Cumulus , with a market capitalization of $171 million, said
the deal would reduce corporate expenses and help with “national
network expansion.” Citadel exited bankruptcy protection June 3,
under the control of its biggest creditors, private-equity firm
TPG Capital, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and hedge fund R2 Investments.  “While we are not supportive of a $31 price, we strongly
believe that Citadel’s board should engage Cumulus so that
Cumulus can conduct its due diligence and arrive at a price that
is right for the Citadel shareholders,” said  Scott McCarty , a
portfolio manager at R2 Investments, now one of Citadel’s
largest shareholders.  Cumulus has the backing of Crestview Partners LP, a New
York-based private-equity firm, with which it created a
strategic partnership in April to invest in radio-broadcasting
companies. At the time, Atlanta-based Cumulus said Crestview
will lead an investor group that would invest up to $500 million
in the partnership.  Slowing Ad Sales  Citadel said today it rejected Cumulus’s offer because it
was “neither credible nor at an appropriate valuation.” Cumulus
also didn’t provide equity or debt financing commitments or
terms, and has a “highly leveraged” balance sheet. In a
statement, Citadel also cited uncertainty around what would be
“a lengthy and complex regulatory review.”  Citadel’s Class B shares  advanced  38 cents, or 1.3 percent,
to $29.75 in over-the-counter trading at 3:11 p.m. New York
time. Cumulus added 29 cents, or 7.7 percent, to $4.07 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market at 4 p.m. New York time.  Citadel had sought bankruptcy protection in December last
year, saying the recession had “put a chokehold on advertising
spending,” its main revenue source. The company added $2 billion
in debt to acquire the ABC Radio Network and radio stations from
Walt Disney Co. in 2007.  Cumulus  controls 345 radio stations in 67 markets, and it
estimates it is the fourth-largest radio broadcast company in
the U.S. based on revenue. Citadel is the third-largest radio
broadcaster in the U.S. with 224 stations including WLS in
Chicago and WABC in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
 Ville Heiskanen  in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  