-- Cushman & Wakefield to Expand Asset Management on Property Demand in Asia
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2010-12-17T05:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/cushman-wakefield-aims-to-expand-asset-management-business-hire-in-asia.html
Cushman & Wakefield Inc., the
world’s largest privately held property services company, aims
to expand its asset management business as demand for real
estate investments in the Asia-Pacific region accelerates.  “We have about $7 billion under management right now so we
have a lot of room” for growth, President and Chief Executive
Officer  Glenn Rufrano  said in an interview in Hong Kong today.  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. , the world’s biggest commercial
real estate brokerage by market value, has $36 billion under
management, while  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. , the second biggest,
has $45 billion, according to their websites.  Direct real estate investment in Asia doubled to $46
billion in the first nine months of 2010 and may reach $60
billion for the full year, as uncertainty over the European
sovereign debt crisis abated and Asian currencies strengthened
against the dollar, CB Richard Ellis said last month.  “Right now we’re growing the investment management
business organically, slowly, and trying not to make any
mistakes,” said Rufrano, who declined to give a growth target.
“At some point over the next five years, when we see an
opportunity to grow at an accelerated way, we’ll consider it.”  The New York-based company plans to hire 800 people
globally over the next five years, Rufrano said, adding that
most new hires will be in Asia and Australia, where Cushman &
Wakefield aims to double revenue contribution to the group to as
much as 15 percent over the period.  India, China  A “big chunk” of the revenue growth in Asia will come
from India and China, said Cushman & Wakefield’s Asia CEO  Sanjay Verma , adding that Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore will remain
some of the firm’s primary markets in the region.  Rufrano took over at Cushman & Wakefield in March after
stepping down as head of Centro Properties Group.  Office rents in Asian cities such as Hong Kong and
Singapore are recovering from the global credit crisis as
financial service firms including  Citigroup Inc.  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc  resumed expansion in the region. Citigroup is
looking to almost triple its workforce in China to as many as
12,000 people in the next three years, the bank said in August.  Store rents in the region are also picking up. Tokyo and
Seoul have both moved up in a Cushman & Wakefield’s annual
survey of the world’s most expensive store rents published in
September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kelvin Wong  in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  