-- 
Diagnostic Tests Can Be Patented, U.S. Court Rules

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-12-06T22:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/diagnostic-tests-can-be-patented-u-s-court-rules.html
(Corrects story from December 2010 to remove reference to
licensing of patents in 10th paragraph.)  Diagnostic medical tests can be
patented, a U.S. appeals court ruled in its first decision on
the issue since a landmark  Supreme Court  case six months ago on
business-method patents.  Prometheus Laboratories Inc.’s method of determining the
dosage of medicines to treat stomach diseases can be patented,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington 
 said . Closely held Prometheus had lost a lower court case in
which it sued the Mayo Clinic for infringing two patents. The
Federal Circuit reversed the ruling in 2009 and today upheld its
decision, saying a judge erred in ruling the patents invalid.  The ruling may aid companies including  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) 
and  Novartis AG (NVS) , which have tried to capitalize on burgeoning
demand for “personalized medicine,” where doctors determine if
a patient is genetically susceptible to a particular disease or
would be more responsive to certain medicines. Interest in such
testing has grown partly as health-benefit companies including
 Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  see a way to trim costs.  “It’s a tremendous advance in the whole world of
pharmaceuticals if you can better match people with the
medicines you give them,” said Jennifer Gordon, a lawyer at
 Baker Botts  in New York who submitted a filing in the case on
behalf of Novartis. Companies “want the full capability of
getting any type of patent that covers their technology. Patents
have been very important to this industry.”  Myriad, which is appealing a federal judge’s ruling in a
separate case that invalidated its patents on a test for  breast
cancer , rose 74 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $23.71 at 4 p.m. New
York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Diagnostic Industry Boost  The Prometheus case was being watched to see how the court
would interpret a June ruling from the Supreme Court that
considered what types of innovations would qualify for legal
protection. The Federal Circuit specializes in U.S. patent law.  “The court of appeals is fairly strongly of the view that
methods of treatment and methods of diagnostics are patentable
all the time,” said Nick Groombridge, a lawyer at Weil, Gotshal
in  New York  who specializes in biotechnology and health patents.  “This is a significant boost for the diagnostic
industry,” he said.  The two Prometheus patents are for a method to determine
the proper dosage of medicines for ailments including Crohn’s
disease or ulcerative colitis to maximize the effectiveness of
the drugs while limiting toxic side effects.  Mayo Clinic  The Mayo Clinic, a not-for-profit medical practice based in
Rochester,  Minnesota , at one point shipped patient samples to
Prometheus and paid the company to perform the test. That
relationship ended in 2004, when Mayo created its own test using
the same metabolites as Prometheus with different levels to
determine toxicity.  After it was sued, Mayo argued that the patents covered
mental steps to look at a body’s natural process, and a judge
agreed, saying the subject matter wasn’t eligible for a patent.  Courts had long held that patents can’t be granted for
“laws of nature, physical phenomena and abstract ideas.”
Prometheus argued that its tests involve an application of a law
of nature, not the law itself. The Federal Circuit agreed.  The patents “are in effect claims to methods of treatment,
which are always transformative when one of a defined group of
drugs is administered to the body to ameliorate the effects of
an undesired condition,” the three-judge panel ruled.  The Prometheus ruling may help Salt Lake City-based Myriad
win its appeal of a judge’s findings that some elements of its
patents for diagnosing a woman’s risk of getting breast cancer
were simple mental steps. The bulk of the judge’s ruling on
Myriad was that isolated DNA is directed to a law of nature and
wasn’t an issue in the case ruled upon today.  The case today is Prometheus Laboratories Inc. v. Mayo
Collaborative Services, 2008-1403,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Prometheus
Lab Inc. v. Mayo Collaborative Services, 04cv1200, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of  California  ( San Diego ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  