-- Disney Union Seeks Executive Pay Curbs, Criticizes One Director
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-12-17T22:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/disney-union-seeks-executive-compensation-curbs-criticizes-one-director.html
A  Walt Disney Co.  union that’s
seeking a new labor agreement for some of the entertainment
company’s hotel workers is proposing executive pay curbs,
singling out board member  Fred Langhammer  for criticism.  Unite Here  is asking shareholders to limit senior
executives to one eligibility test for stock awards, according a
regulatory filing. The group is also seeking to curb potential
severance payments for executives.  Disney, based in Burbank, California, will hold its annual
meeting on March 23 in Salt Lake City. Current policy at Disney
allows executives up to three eligibility tests for stock
awards, Unite Here said. Langhammer, head of the compensation
committee since 2008, also had a hand in pay at  American
International Group Inc . as a director from January 2006 until
he resigned in 2008, it said.  “During this period, AIG endured criticism for showering
large bonuses and lavish junkets on top executives as the
company imploded,” the union, which represents Disneyland hotel
workers, said in the filing.  Disney offered a package that includes wage increases, paid
sick leave and health care,  John Nicoletti , a spokesman for
Disneyland in Anaheim, California, said today in an interview.
Of 31 Disneyland unions, only Unite Here hasn’t reached an
agreement.  “This is another publicity stunt from Local 11 leadership
to distract from the fact that after three years their members
are still without a contract,” Nicoletti said.  Langhammer didn’t respond to a phone request for comment
left at  Estee Lauder Cos. , where he is chairman of global
affairs.  Re-Test Policy  AIG, based in New York, was once the world’s largest
insurer. It was pushed to the brink of collapse in 2008 as
investments tied to the housing market soured. The company
accepted a U.S. government rescue that has swelled in value to
$182.3 billion.  In fiscal 2008 and 2009, Disney allowed senior executives
to re-test whether they should receive performance-based stock
grants using different criteria, the union said in the  filing .
That delinks pay from company performance, Unite Here said.  Disney’s compensation committee in fiscal 2009 voted to
allow executives three tests, according to the filing. Only one
re-test was performed in calendar 2010, the union said, citing
earlier Disney regulatory filings.  “There is currently no guarantee that Disney will not
introduce more re-testing opportunities in future years,” the
union said. “Disney should better tie compensation to
performance by implementing a policy disallowing re-tests.”  Disney, the world’s biggest media company, rose 4 cents to
$37.05 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . The shares have gained 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  