-- Dollar Gains Amid Sovereign Debt Concern, Attractive U.S. Yields
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-12-17T22:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/dollar-gains-amid-sovereign-debt-concern-attractive-treasury-note-yields.html
The dollar rose to its strongest
against the euro in two weeks as Treasury yields at an almost
seven-month high and concern that Europe policy makers aren’t
doing enough to contain the region’s debt crisis drove demand
for U.S. financial assets.  The euro earlier rose after EU leaders agreed to create a
mechanism to contain future debt shocks and German business
confidence unexpectedly climbed. Beyond the permanent debt-
crisis mechanism in 2013, the leaders struggled to bridge
divisions about immediate steps to stabilize bond markets.  “We’re looking at a situation where the U.S. dollar should
do a little bit better,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in
Toronto. “The euro probably still has further to fall
considering the still quite significant sovereign fiscal
challenges that we have in the euro zone.”  The dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.3188 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York, from $1.3244 yesterday and touched $1.3133, the
strongest since Dec. 2. The dollar rose 0.1 percent versus the
yen to 83.98 yen from 83.91 yen. It reached 84.51 on Dec. 15,
the most since Sept. 24.  Treasury 10-year note  yields fell nine basis points to 3.33
percent, after touching 3.44 percent. Yesterday, the yield
reached 3.56 percent, the highest since May 13.  EU Summit  EU leaders wrap up a two-day summit today in Brussels. They
agreed to amend the bloc’s treaties to create a permanent
crisis-management mechanism that takes effect in 2013.  “We’re a little bit disappointed at their inability to
approach the broad solution to the sovereign debt crisis that’s
clearly needed,”  Steven Englander , head of Group of 10 currency
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .
“The market is afraid of a financial rupture in the euro zone.”  Germany, the biggest contributor to Europe’s bailouts of
Greece and Ireland, pushed through a proposal that would allow
financial aid “if indispensable” to underpin the euro and may
force bondholders to bear some costs of future rescues.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  ruled out putting more
money on the table, retooling the post-Greek rescue European
Financial Stability Facility to enable it to buy troubled
government bonds, or further entwining Europe’s economies
through joint bond sales.  U.K. Won’t Pay  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said his country won’t
pay into the euro-region bailout mechanism and said he wanted
the European Union’s budget frozen as he sought to distance
Britain from the region’s policies.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its business climate
 index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 109.9
from 109.3 in November. That’s the highest since records for
reunified Germany began in 1991. Economists  predicted  a drop to
109, the median of 36 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey shows.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s credit rating by
five levels to Baa1 after the government was forced to ask for
external aid last month, staggered by losses in the banking
system.  “The Irish government’s financial strength could decline
further if economic growth were to be weaker than currently
projected or the cost of stabilizing the banking system turn out
to be higher than currently forecast,” Moody’s said.  Annual View  The euro fell against most of its 16 most-traded
counterparts and has slipped 9.7 percent this year in a measure
of the currencies of 10 developed nations, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen has
gained 11 percent, while the dollar is down 1 percent.  President  Barack Obama  signed into law today an $858
billion tax-cut bill extending for two years Bush-era tax cuts
to boost a fragile economy and add jobs.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the U.S. outlook for the
next three to six months rose 1.1 percent, the most in eight
months, after a revised 0.4 percent gain in October, the New
York-based group said today. The reading matched the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The pound was the third worst performer against all of its
major peers after the Canadian dollar and Brazilian real.
Sterling weakened 0.6 percent to $1.5533 and lost 0.2 percent to
84.91 pence per euro.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, a British bank that’s 41 percent
government owned, said it expects to report an increased
impairment charge of 4.3 billion pounds ($6.7 billion) because
of Irish loan losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  