-- E*Trade CFO Nolop Retires, Matthew Audette to Succeed
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2010-12-17T21:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/e-trade-financial-cfo-nolop-retires-matthew-audette-to-succeed.html
E*Trade Financial Corp. , the fourth-
largest U.S. retail brokerage by client assets, said  Bruce Nolop 
will retire as chief financial officer and  Matthew Audette  will
take the post on Jan. 1.  Nolop, 60, held the position since September 2008 and
helped E*Trade transition to  profitability  in this year’s second
quarter after more than two years of losses. Audette, 36, has
been with the brokerage since 2000 and has held the position of
corporate controller since 2005, according to a release today
from the New York-based company. He served as interim CFO for
about six months in 2008 before Nolop was selected.  Audette’s appointment marks a second top  executive  change
this year.  Steven Freiberg  became chief executive officer in
March after E*Trade had appointed an interim CEO because it
failed to find a permanent replacement by the end of 2009.
E*Trade posted its first profit the quarter after Freiberg’s
appointment, starting a recovery after more than  $3.5 billion  in
losses resulting from the subprime crisis and mortgage defaults
at its E*Trade Bank.  “We believe Mr. Audette’s 10 years of experience within
E*Trade positions him well for CFO responsibilities,”  Richard Repetto , a principal at Sandler O’Neill & partners LP, said in a
report today. “We have worked with Mr. Audette on numerous
occasions and view him as knowledgeable and highly capable.”  Deal Speculation  When Freiberg was named to the top post, analysts said it
might be a signal the online brokerage wasn’t for sale. At the
time of Freiberg’s appointment, TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. said
it would consider buying E*Trade for the right price. TD
Ameritrade Chief Executive Officer  Fred Tomczyk  said earlier
this month he doesn’t see any acquisition “that makes strategic
and financial sense.”  Nolop’s total compensation was $2.3 million in 2009,
including $1.17 million in stock awards and $600,000 of non-
equity incentive, according to Bloomberg data. His term expires
at the end of this year, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  E*Trade  shares  climbed 2.1 percent, the most since Dec. 2,
to $15.42 as of 4 p.m. in New York. They have fallen 12 percent
this year, compared with a 2.9 percent advance in the  NYSE Arca
Broker/Dealer Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 