-- Leading Index Probably Rose in November in Sign U.S. Economy Will Pick Up
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-17T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/leading-index-probably-rose-in-november-in-sign-u-s-economy-will-pick-up.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators probably increased in November by the most in eight
months, a signal the expansion will strengthen early next year,
economists said before a report today.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 1.1 percent after increasing 0.5
percent in each of the previous two months, according to the
median forecast of 59 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Americans grew more confident last month, stocks rose and
fewer people filed for unemployment benefits, boosting the
prospects for consumer spending in coming months. Until growth
picks up and sparks bigger job gains, Federal Reserve policy
makers will stick to a plan to pump more money into the economy.  The U.S. economy “is picking up momentum,” said  Michael Gregory , a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.
“We definitely had that lull in the summer and things appear to
have turned.”  The New York-based Conference Board, a private research
group, is scheduled to release its report at 10 a.m. Bloomberg
survey estimates ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to 1.3 percent.  Evidence the economic recovery is advancing has driven up
U.S. stock prices. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index has advanced
22 percent since reaching a 10-month low on July 2. The gauge is
up 5.3 percent so far in December.  Unemployment and Fed  Even so, Fed policy makers said economic growth isn’t
strong enough to bring down the unemployment rate, which rose to
9.8 percent in November. The central bank’s Federal Open Market
Committee on Dec. 14 repeated its pledge to leave the benchmark
interest rate low for an “extended period” and retained a $600
billion Treasury-purchase program through June.  Seven of the 10 measures that make up the Conference
Board’s leading index are known ahead of time: stock prices,
 jobless claims , building permits,  consumer expectations , the
yield curve, factory hours and supplier delivery times. Of those,
five contributed to the expected gain in November.  The Conference Board estimates new orders for consumer
goods, bookings for capital equipment and money supply adjusted
for inflation.  Those indicators that pointed to a gain in the November
included a positive spread between short- and long-term interest
rates, the increase in stocks, rising consumer expectations,
fewer jobless claims and a lengthening in factory delivery times.
The manufacturing workweek was unchanged at 40.3 hours in
November, according to Labor Department data, while  building
permits  declined.  Christmas Spending  Improved household balance sheets may be boosting spending
during the Christmas holiday period. The International Council
of Shopping Centers on Dec. 14 revised its November-December
holiday-season sales forecast up by 0.5 percentage point to a
range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent, citing “the strong November
performance and promising trends in early December.”  “All the brands around the world are having, so far so
good, a very great Christmas,”  John Demsey , group president of
 Estee Lauder Cos. , said in a Bloomberg Television interview Dec.
15. “Consumer confidence is up and it’s really about the power
of the brands and pent up demand that consumers have.”  The pickup in consumer spending complements factory growth
that helped bring the economy out of the worst recession since
the 1930s.  Broadcom Corp., the biggest maker of chips for television
set-top boxes, this week increased its fourth-quarter revenue
projection to about $1.9 billion, the top end of an earlier
forecast range. Irvine, California-based Broadcom is making
inroads in the mobile-phone market, supplying radio chips for
handsets from South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. and
Finland’s Nokia Oyj.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  