-- Snow Disrupts Flights at Zurich, Geneva as U.K. Braces for Weekend Freeze
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2010-12-17T16:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/heavy-snow-ice-set-to-deal-sales-blow-to-retailers-in-run-up-to-christmas.html
Flights from European airports
including London, Belfast and Geneva were canceled as the region
braced for more snow and freezing temperatures over the last
weekend before Christmas.  Belfast International will shut until at least 5:00 p.m.,
according to a statement on the airport’s website. London’s City
Airport closed its runway earlier this afternoon. Airports
including Zurich, Geneva, Schiphol and London Gatwick have also
delayed and canceled flights.  “Within a turn of a head it’s like a blizzard out there,”
Gatwick airport spokeswoman Sarah Baranowski said by phone.
“We’ve had barely any snow at all and suddenly there’s a
blanket down within minutes.”  Eurostar Group Ltd. imposed a speed limit on its rail
services because of the severe conditions, the company said on
its website, meaning journeys will take 30 minutes longer.
Fourteen centimeters (5.5 inches) of snow fell at Frankfurt from
yesterday evening until early today. About 400 flights at
Frankfurt Airport were canceled today, according to Fraport AG
spokesman Thomas Uber.  “The system is starting to stabilize, but with many
cancellations,” Deutsche Lufthansa AG spokesman  Thomas Jachnow 
said by phone, adding that while operations have started running
more smoothly at Fraport AG’s Frankfurt airport, some snow in
Munich continued to slow schedules there.  Easyjet Plc will cancel all flights from Gatwick from 6
a.m. to 10 a.m. tomorrow, Europe’s second-largest discount
airline said on its website today.  Met Office Forecast  The U.K.’s state-funded  Met Office  forecast heavy snow
across Scotland, Northern Ireland, Wales and the south of
England until late tomorrow. Research company  Planalytics 
predicted that the freezing conditions will “severely disrupt”
business for retailers, as well as parcel deliveries. Store
visits slumped by 14.5 percent at non-food outlets in Britain
during wintry conditions early this month, according to
researcher Synovate.  “People will find it difficult to get to their usual
haunts if we have another bout of bad weather,” Pam Armstrong
of market research company GfK NOP Ltd. said. “With out-of-town
and Internet purchasing unavailable to them due to restrictions
on transport and delivery times, we may see total retail
spending fall this Christmas.”  Almost a third of holiday shopping is done in the two weeks
before Christmas, according to a GfK survey of 500 adults.
Retailers such as  Dixons Retail Plc , the owner of the PC World
and Currys chains,  HMV Group Plc , the music and DVD retailer,
and H. Samuel owner  Signet Jewelers Ltd.  generate a significant
proportion of their annual revenue over the holiday period.  Early Discounts  Grocers such as  J Sainsbury Plc  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s
 Asda  are offering record levels of promotions to fuel spending,
according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC. The most common offers
are on confectionery and alcohol, such as wine cases reduced by
50 percent at  Tesco Plc,  while discounts on fresh produce like
Brussels sprouts and satsumas are increasing, PwC said.  “It looks as though the grocers are leaving nothing to
chance and getting those Christmas sales in while they can,”
Christine Cross, chief retailer adviser to PwC, said in a
statement. On average, 11 out of 20 Christmas items in a basket
of goods are now on promotion, the accounting firm said.  Online Orders  Some major U.K. retailers are taking no new online non-food
orders for delivery to Scottish addresses by Christmas Day,
Sarah Cordey, a spokeswoman for the British Retail Consortium,
said by telephone. Orders for food from supermarkets are still
being taken, she said.  Paddy Power Plc, Ireland’s biggest bookmaker, has slashed
the odds of snow falling in London on Christmas day. The odds
have fallen from 5/2 a week ago to 4/7 today, meaning that a
successful 1-pound ($1.56) bet would bring in 57 pence plus the
original stake.  The adverse weather has disrupted fixtures in the Scottish
Premier soccer league with three matches postponed so far,
including reigning champions Glasgow Rangers’ game against St
Mirren originally scheduled for tomorrow. Three steeplechases on
Sunday at Ireland’s Navan Racecourse have been canceled as the
course was found unfit for racing, Sky Sports  reported .  At least 440 schools in Wales, 200 in Scotland and 220 in
Northern Ireland were closed, the British Broadcasting
Corporation reported on its  website .  Drug dealers in Leicester, England also had plans disrupted
by the weather, as police raided 300 cannabis plants worth tens
of thousands of pounds from a house in a residential street
yesterday after noticing it had no snow on its roof, according
to a  statement  from Leicestershire Police. Industrial-strength
lights used to help the plants grow make the factories much
warmer than other buildings.  With assistance from  Sarah Shannon  in London. Editors: Tim
Farrand, Michelle E. Frazer  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Jordan in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  