-- LeBron James Is Now Easy to Forget for Knicks: Scott Soshnick
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2010-12-17T02:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/lebron-james-now-easy-to-forget-for-knicks-commentary-by-scott-soshnick.html
LeBron James is, for one night only,
taking his talents to New York, where the reinvigorated
customers of Madison Square Garden will get a glimpse at what
could have been.  New York Knicks fans spent the offseason dreaming of the
so-called King and his court, even if their dreams were
deferred, meaning a short wait for Denver’s dour star,  Carmelo Anthony , who has made little secret of his affinity for bright
lights, big city.  Turns out, these Knicks didn’t need James. And recent
results show they don’t need Anthony, whose trade-me-or-lose-me
Melodrama should tell New Yorkers that his points aren’t worth
his price. Patience is a four-letter word in professional
sports, especially around MSG, where ticket prices mistakenly
suggest a quality product under the pinwheel ceiling.  Former MSG President  Dave Checketts  used to say that you
can’t rebuild in New York, that the fans wouldn’t tolerate it.
Celebrity row demands Showtime, not Slowtime.  Checketts was wrong. Fans understand front-office mistakes
are made (remember  Isiah Thomas ?) and know that Band-Aids
prolong the suffering. New York fans want two things: A well-
conceived, well-communicated plan and a team that works hard
every night.  This Knicks team, as constituted, not only win games but
gets the joint jumping. The buzz is back, as are the Knicks,
which is exactly what  Amar’e Stoudemire  said at his introductory
press conference.  Feeling Feverish  “It’s not as feverish as it was, but it’s getting there,”
said  Doc Rivers , coach of the division leading Boston Celtics,
who survived their visit to MSG two nights ago, escaping with a
118-116 victory that wasn’t assured until the referees reviewed
replay evidence to determine that Stoudemire’s 3-point shot
didn’t beat the buzzer. “You can feel it coming in this
building, and I love it.”  If anyone qualifies as an authority on MSG and buzz it’s
Rivers, who played for  Pat Riley ’s Knicks, a hardscrabble group
built around  Patrick Ewing  that almost topped  Michael Jordan ’s
Bulls. Of course it was Riley, he of Armani and slick hair, who
brought together James,  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh  in Miami.
Ladies and gentlemen, meet The Heatles.  The Knicks gave Stoudemire $100 million over five years,
hoping he’d be enough of a sidekick to lure James. But James
chose Miami, where Heat owner  Micky Arison , the chairman of
Carnival Corp., knows he needs sizzle to draw the glitterati
from the sun and fun of South Beach.  Perfect Fit  James and Miami are the perfect marriage. The 6-foot-8
James, sculpted by the gods from granite, belongs in the land of
the genetically blessed. A beautiful basketball player for the
beautiful people.  It’s nice when a team accurately reflects its town.  These Knicks do just that. Stoudemire is a star, yes, but
one whose success was often attributed to the pinpoint passing
of his former running mate in Phoenix,  Steve Nash , a two-time
 Most Valuable Player . Hmm. Maybe Nash was the lucky one.  Did you happen to see noted Knicks fan  Spike Lee  on the
sidelines Wednesday night with Boston in town? He was wearing
the jersey of Landry Fields, a late-bloomer who fell to the
draft’s second round. Now he’s a starter.  What Anthony possesses in hubris, Fields has in hustle and
humility.  There is no Big Three in New York, but it’s working just
fine.  Maximum Effort  Walk down the street today with  John Starks  or  Charles Oakley  and marvel at the adoration still shown to players who
never won a championship for the Knicks.  Starks and Oakley, like Fields, made up for any
shortcomings in ability with effort, intensity and, on occasion,
pugnacious play. They won the crowd, not to mention their fair
share of games.  What, you have to wonder, would the Knicks have to
surrender to get Anthony, a career 24.7 points-a-game scorer who
might not be thrilled with having to  share  the Garden’s marquee.  If Anthony wants to play for the Knicks so badly, he can
wait until July and sign as a free agent, leaving the rest of
the roster intact.  Knicks President of Basketball Operations  Donnie Walsh , a
New York, native, surely has spent time at Rucker Park and West
4th Street, aka “The Cage,” where playground ball is elevated
to art form.  This team represents those players, who play for love, not
money.  We’re going to hear a lot about the Brooklyn-born Anthony
until the trade deadline in February, which gives this team, as
constituted, time to make a case for standing pat.  No one is laughing at these Knicks.  “Boston respects us,” Stoudemire said the other night.
“They know how good we can be. We will see them again.”  Stoudemire is the only player on the team who can say that
with certainty. He’ll be with the Knicks on March 21, when they
next play the Celtics in New York. As for the others, well,
they’ll have to wait for the Melodrama to unfold.  ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  