-- ECB, BOE Sign Swap Accord to Help Support Irish Banks
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2010-12-17T17:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ecb-bank-of-england-sign-swap-agreement-to-support-ireland-s-central-bank.html
The  European Central Bank  and Bank
of England set up a temporary swap line to help ease liquidity
strains at Ireland’s lenders in case the sovereign-debt crisis
intensifies.  The Bank of England could provide up to 10 billion pounds
($15.5 billion) to the ECB in exchange for euros if needed, the
Frankfurt-based central bank said in a statement today. The
facility will allow funds to be made available to the central
bank in Ireland, whose four largest lenders have U.K. units.  This is “rather a sign that the Irish banks are short with
sterling than a pure technical measure,” said  Holger Sandte ,
chief European economist at WestLB Equity Markets in Dusseldorf.
“You wouldn’t open up such big bowl if you don’t need it.”  Irish banks have been relying increasingly on funding from
central banks amid an outflow of deposits and as wholesale
funding markets remain volatile. Moody’s Investors Service
estimates Ireland’s six government-guaranteed lenders may have
borrowed more than 90 billion euros ($119 billion) from the ECB
and at least 40 billion euros from Ireland’s central bank.  This is a “precautionary measure for the purpose of
meeting any temporary liquidity needs of the banking system” in
Ireland in pounds, the ECB said. The agreement expires at the
end of September 2011.  Bank of Ireland Plc  plunged 14 percent to 31.9 euro cents
at the 5:10 p.m. close of trading in Dublin.  Allied Irish Banks
Plc  fell 1.1 percent to 45 cents and Irish Life & Permanent Plc
dropped 8.8 percent to 96 cents.  ‘Underlying Need’  “We have to take at face value that this is a purely
precautionary measure, but I suspect that this facility is
reflective of an underlying need of Irish banks for sterling,”
 Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-market debt strategy at ING
Bank NV in Amsterdam, said by telephone.  Moody’s downgraded its rating on Ireland by five levels to
Baa1 from Aa2 today. The Irish government last month agreed on
an 85 billion-euro aid package with European governments and the
International Monetary Fund. The U.K. is lending Ireland money
as part of the deal.  “In the weeks prior to the announcement” of the bailout,
“problems in the Irish banking system became particularly acute
as confidence and available funding for Irish banks rapidly
dissipated,” Moody’s said.  The Moody’s announcement “will not have helped” the
situation of Irish banks,  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income
analyst with Evolution Securities in London, said in a telephone
interview. “Obviously Irish banks have funding requirements for
sterling given their operations in the U.K.,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  