-- EDF Will Extend Lifespan of Two U.K. Nuclear Reactors by Five Years
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-17T08:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/edf-will-extend-lifespan-of-two-u-k-nuclear-reactors-by-five-years.html
Electricite de France SA , the
world’s biggest operator of nuclear reactors, plans to extend
the lifespan of two existing reactors in the U.K. by five years
and estimated the construction of two plants at Hinkley Point
will cost 9 billion pounds ($14 billion).  The French utility said output at its first new atomic
plant in the U.K. is targeted for 2018, while operations will
continue at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool until 2019, according to a
statement today.  EDF is aiming to achieve nuclear output above 55 terawatt
hours a year in the U.K., according to the Paris-based utility,
which is holding a meeting with analysts today in London.  The company plans to build four reactors at the sites of
existing nuclear stations at Hinkley Point in southwest England
and at Sizewell in the southeast. It’s currently constructing an
EPR at Flamanville in Normandy, which has been delayed by as
much as two years, as well as plants in China. EDF also plans to
build EPRs in the U.K., where it already operates eight
reactors.  Carrying out a plan to extend the working lifetimes of
existing plants in the U.K. could allow them to work an average
of five years longer and 20 years more for Sizewell B, the
company said.  The U.K. government approved eight sites for new plants in
October. In addition to EDF,  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc ,
Spain-based Iberdrola SA and France’s  GDF Suez SA , as well as
RWE AG and E.ON AG have announced plans for about 19,000
megawatts of new reactors through 2050.  EDF will spend 5 billion euros, more than an initial
estimate of 3.3 billion euros, to complete the first-of-a-kind
EPR reactor at Flamanville, France. In Finland, Areva SA is
behind schedule on its plant at Olkiluoto, initially meant to be
finished in 2009, is now slated for completion by 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  