-- EDF Will Extend Output Lifespan of Two U.K. Nuclear Reactors by Five Years
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-17T10:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/edf-will-extend-lifespan-of-two-nuclear-reactors-in-britain-by-five-years.html
Electricite de France SA , the
world’s biggest operator of nuclear reactors, plans to extend
the lifespan of two plants in the U.K. by five years and
estimated building two EPRs at Hinkley Point will cost 9 billion
pounds ($14 billion).  Output at the first new plant is targeted for 2018, while
operations at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool will continue until 2019,
the Paris-based utility said today in a statement.  “This validates EDF’s acquisition of British Energy and
expansion into the U.K.,”  Julien Quistrebert , fund manager at
KBL Richlieu Gestion in Paris, said by telephone. “There was
some worry about the quality of the existing nuclear reactors
and how long they could keep some of them going.”  The U.K. yesterday announced four proposals to ensure aging
power plants are replaced and climate targets met, including
setting a floor price on carbon emissions and guaranteeing long-
term prices for low-carbon generators. The government estimates
that more than 110 billion pounds is required by 2020 to replace
old nuclear reactors, upgrade the power grid and build renewable
projects like offshore wind-farms and atomic reactors.  EDF is aiming for nuclear output of more than 55 terawatt
hours a year in the U.K., according to plans outlined today by
the utility at a meeting with analysts in London. A full plan to
extend the working lifetimes of existing plants in the U.K.
could allow them to work, an average, five years longer and 20
years more for Sizewell B, the company said.  EPR Plans  The company plans to build four reactors at the sites of
existing nuclear plants at Hinkley Point in southwest England
and at Sizewell in the southeast. It’s currently building an EPR
at Flamanville in France, which has been delayed by as many as
two years, as well as plants in China. EDF has reactors at eight
plants in the U.K. after expanding into the country in 2008 with
the purchase of British Energy.  The utility said output at existing nuclear plants this
year would be “comparable” to 2009 and is projected in a graph
of a presentation on the company’s  website  as being lower.  EDF said the first EPR at Hinkley Point would be operation
in 2018 and the second 18 months later, both with a projected
operating life of 60 years. Costs until a final investment
decision is taken on the project could reach 1 billion pounds,
according to EDF’s presentation.  The U.K. approved eight sites for new plants in October. In
addition to EDF,  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc , Spain-based
Iberdrola SA, France’s  GDF Suez SA , and RWE AG and E.ON AG have
announced plans for about 19,000 megawatts of new reactors
through 2050.  EDF will spend 5 billion euros, more than an initial
estimate of 3.3 billion euros, to complete the first-of-a-kind
EPR reactor at Flamanville. In Finland, Areva SA is behind
schedule on its plant at Olkiluoto. It was initially meant to be
finished in 2009 and is now slated for completion by 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  