-- Hedge Fund Matchmaker at Expert Firm Caught in Insider Probe `Spider Web'
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2010-12-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/hedge-fund-matchmaker-caught-in-spider-web-of-insider-trading-fraud.html
James Fleishman earned $275,000 last
year working as a matchmaker for hedge funds and company
insiders, helping facilitate the transfer of market-moving data
from technology firm employees to investors, prosecutors said.  Fleishman works as a sales manager for Primary Global
Research LLC, a so-called expert networking firm. Its
consultants, who were also employees of technology companies,
allegedly gave clients an advantage with secret sales numbers
and production data from  Dell Inc. ,  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. ,
 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , and  Flextronics
International Ltd.   The Justice Department yesterday charged Fleishman, 41, and
three former Primary Global consultants in Massachusetts, Texas
and California, with fraud and conspiracy. They also unsealed
the Dec. 10 guilty plea of a Dell Inc. employee who worked as a
Primary Global consultant.  “Client requests for information were usually made through
James Fleishman” and a colleague, prosecutors said in a
complaint filed in Manhattan federal court. With the latest
charges, and the Nov. 24 arrest of Primary Global employee  Don Ching Trang Chu , U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York has
broken new ground in a probe of insider trading by hedge funds
that had begun in part at Galleon Group LLC.  Decades in Prison  Primary Global, located in Mountain View, California, is at
the center of the new circle, with two employees and four ex-
consultants facing federal charges that may bring decades in
prison. Prosecutors are focusing on how such companies connect
investors with corporate insiders paid to spill secrets.  The government is “starting at the expert networks, and
then they’re working to the expert consultants, and the next
step is going after the funds themselves,” said  Bradley Bondi ,
a lawyer at  Cadwalder, Wickersham & Taft LLP  and former deputy
general counsel at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
who isn’t involved in the cases. “Insider trading cases are
like spider webs. We’re at the outer edges.”  Primary Global described itself in a February 2010
statement as “a leading independent investment research firm
providing institutional money managers and analysts with market
intelligence through a global network of industry experts.”  The sectors it covers are technology, health care,
financial services, media and Internet, real estate, alternative
energy, retail, and energy and industrials.  Preferred Contact  Fleishman was the preferred contact for Primary Global
clients, the government alleged. He “connected” an analyst
seeking information about Marvell Technology Group Ltd.’s sales
contracts with an unidentified global supply manager at Dell,
and with Mark Anthony Longoria, a former supply chain manager at
 Advanced Micro Devices , the U.S. said.  “We’ll have people,” Fleishman told the analyst,
according to prosecutors. “Longoria is one of our best
experts.”  Longoria, arrested yesterday, appeared in federal court in
Austin, Texas, and was released on $50,000 bond. Sam Bassett,
his lawyer, said his client is cooperating with the
investigation.  In arranging calls between Primary Global consultants and
investors, Fleishman stressed the need for secrecy, according to
the 39-page criminal complaint.  “We just try to provide anonymity to some degree for the,
for the experts,” he told the unidentified analyst, who pleaded
guilty and is helping prosecutors. “We don’t typically give you
their contact info or even their last name. It’s kind of a sales
point with these folks when, when we’re recruiting them.”  Reviewing the Charges  Fleishman’s lawyer, Brad Bailey, said yesterday that he is
reviewing the charges. His client was released on $700,000 bail
after appearing before a federal judge in San Jose, California.
He is to appear in a New York court Jan. 4.  Last year, the U.S. revealed a tactic more common in
organized crime cases -- wiretaps -- in an insider trading probe
that resulted in the indictment of  Raj Rajaratnam , co founder of
the Galleon hedge fund. At least 15 of those arrested in the
case have pleaded guilty, and Rajaratnam recently lost a bid to
throw out evidence obtained through the surveillance. About two
dozen people have been arrested in that arm of the Justice
Department’s insider trading probe.  By using court-authorized wiretaps and cooperating
witnesses who secretly recorded conversations, prosecutors
assembled “one of the most exhaustive insider-trading
investigations ever conducted,” said  John J. Carney , a former
U.S. prosecutor and SEC attorney now at Baker Hostetler LLP.  ‘Look For a Trail’  “The SEC and Justice Department normally look for a trail
between the trader and the inside information,” Carney said.
“In this case, the expert network provided anonymity to both
the trader and the source. Without the cooperators and the
wiretaps, it could have gone undiscovered.”  Fleishman, of Santa Clara, California, was charged with
wire fraud and conspiracy to commit securities fraud. He was
released on bail of $700,000 after his arrest yesterday.  Daniel DeVore, a global supply manager at Dell, pleaded
guilty to wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud and
securities fraud.  In addition to Fleishman and Langoria, 44, of Round Rock,
Texas, prosecutors yesterday also arrested Walter Shimoon, 39,
of San Diego, a business development director at Flextronics,
and Manosha Karunatilaka, 37, of Marlborough, Massachusetts, an
account manager at Taiwan Semiconductor. They were charged with
wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud and securities
fraud.  Placed on Leave  Fleishman, who joined Primary Global in June 2006, was
placed on leave by the company, according to spokesman  Dan Charnas . Shimoon was an expert consultant from August 2007 to
November 2010; Longoria served from March 2006 to March 2010;
and Karunatilaka consulted from September 2007 to July 2010,
Charnas said in an e-mail.  Primary Global paid the four consultants more than $400,000
in total, prosecutors said.  Longoria was especially popular with Primary Global
clients, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. On
April 7, 2009, Fleishman was told by another Primary Global
employee that Longoria had done 40 calls with clients in the
past 60 days and spoken to “12 out of 15” investors, according
to the complaint.  From January 2008, when he began working for Primary
Global, to June 2010, Longoria earned more than $200,000 for his
work, the FBI said. When confronted by an FBI agent on Oct. 12,
2010, Longoria said he had “quarterly calls” with Fleishman
and others at the firm, during which he provided AMD sales price
information and other inside tips, according to court filings.  ‘Institutional Heavyweights’  Fleishman wrote on his LinkedIn web page that he won
business with “over 30 new accounts, including institutional
heavyweights” with more than $100 billion in assets under
management. His clients included equity analysts at hedge funds
and mutual funds, he wrote.  “I’ve always enjoyed talking to people, explaining what I
know and learning new things,” he wrote on his page, adding
that his specialties included “relationship management” and
“prospecting for new business.”  Fleishman attended San Jose State University, worked as an
office manager at Generic Media and a salesman at MailFrontier
Inc., according to his LinkedIn page. He also taught English in
South Korea, he said.  He continued to broker in illegal inside information right
up until prosecutors began their crackdown, the government said.
On Oct. 16, 2009, the same day that federal agents arrested
Rajaratnam, Fleishman assured Longoria that New York-based
Galleon was “definitely not” a client of his firm.  “Okay, good,” Longoria replied, according to the
complaint. “I was like really getting nervous.”  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net  and;
 David Glovin  in New York at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 