-- Lehman Disputes JPMorgan's Defense Against Claim for Billions of Dollars
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2010-12-17T18:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/lehman-disputes-jpmorgan-s-safe-harbor-defense-in-quest-for-cash-damages.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , which
seeks billions of dollars from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , said the
bank and Chairman  James Dimon  helped cause its collapse and
can’t hide behind laws that protect lenders.  JPMorgan forced Lehman to give guarantees that stripped the
firm of working capital in the 2008 financial crisis, Lehman
said Dec. 15 while asking a U.S. bankruptcy judge to let its
lawsuit proceed. JPMorgan should return $8.6 billion in cash and
pay tens of billions more in damages, Lehman said.  JPMorgan’s defense hinges on so-called safe harbor laws,
which allow clearing banks to take collateral from securities
dealers without getting sued if they fail. Lehman says the laws
protected New York-based JPMorgan only when it cleared trades
for Lehman’s failing brokerage. JPMorgan wasn’t a clearing bank
for the parent company, so the guarantees can be reversed,
Lehman said.  The U.S. Bankruptcy Code doesn’t shelter “guarantees
entered into for less than reasonably equivalent value when the
debtor was insolvent or undercapitalized,” Lehman said in its
filing in Manhattan. Under the code, debtors can undo some asset
transfers completed shortly before a bankruptcy filing.  A victory for Lehman would help its creditors, who stand to
get an average of 15.8 cents on the dollar. JPMorgan, the
second-largest U.S. bank, reported third-quarter  net income  of
$4.42 billion.  The bank says the guarantees can’t be reversed. Safe-harbor
laws “present an insurmountable legal obstacle to Lehman’s
lawsuit,” JPMorgan told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James M. Peck  in
court papers while twice asking him to dismiss the suit.  ‘Some Advantages’  Peck, who is handling Lehman’s bankruptcy, previously ruled
against Lehman creditors who claimed their rights trumped safe-
harbor laws. The laws govern the $467 trillion market for swaps
and repurchase agreements.  Judges think “all creditors should be equal in bankruptcy,
but the safe harbor says some have advantages,” said  Guy Dempsey , a lawyer with Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP in New York
who specializes in derivatives and bank regulation.  Bank of America Corp. , ordered by Peck to pay $590 million
to Lehman, said this week it appealed his ruling to a higher
court. Metavante Corp. also appealed before deciding to settle
with Lehman.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, failed in
September 2008 because of risky real estate bets and too much
debt, which it tried to hide from investors, according to
bankruptcy examiner  Anton Valukas ’s report.  JPMorgan sued Lehman on Dec. 1, saying the firm promised to
pay back $70 billion in loans and instead saddled the lender
with $25 billion, backed by “toxic securities.”  The adversary case is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  