-- Lend Lease Is in Talks to Buy Bilfinger's Australian Unit After Failed IPO
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2010-12-17T06:26:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/lend-lease-in-talks-to-buy-bilfinger-berger-s-valemus-unit-in-australia.html
Lend Lease Group , Australia’s
largest developer, said it’s in talks with  Bilfinger Berger SE 
to buy  Valemus Ltd. , five months after the German construction
company aborted an initial share sale of its Australian unit.  The companies haven’t reached an agreement, and there’s no
certainty that a transaction will occur, Sydney-based Lend Lease
said in a regulatory filing. No price was stated.  The Australian newspaper reported today that an agreement
to buy Valemus for A$1 billion ($1 billion) was “imminent.”
Lend Lease  shares  rose 2 percent to close at A$8.57 in Sydney.  A purchase would “consolidate Lend Lease’s place in the
Australian market,” said  Angus Gluskie , who manages about $350
million at White Funds Management Pty in Sydney. “There’s
likely to be significant opportunity in the infrastructure space
in upcoming years, as there’s a raft of infrastructure needed in
Australia.”  Bilfinger, based in Mannheim, Germany, in July pulled a
planned IPO for Valemus to raise as much as A$1.39 billion after
investors balked at the price, which equated to 12 times 2010
earnings. Bilfinger, whose projects have included the Sydney
Opera House and the city’s Anzac Bridge, has said it wants to
sell its Australian unit to reduce its dependence on
construction and build up its services business.  ‘No Brainer’  A sale to Lend Lease would be a better option for Bilfinger
than an IPO, said  Prasad Patkar , who helps manage about $1.8
billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney.  “The price Lend Lease is willing to pay is more or less
similar to the IPO value,” Patkar said in a telephone interview.
“An IPO is a more intense process. Given a choice between the
two, a trade sale is a no-brainer.”  Lend Lease reported A$1.6 billion in cash and A$700 million
in undrawn debt facilities as of June 30. The funds gave the
company “significant capacity to fund growth opportunities,”
Chief Financial Officer  Brad Soller  said in an earnings
statement to the stock exchange on Aug. 16.  The company, which returned to profit in the year ended
June 30 on the strength of its Australian operations, is
increasing its focus on its domestic business, Chief Executive
Officer  Steve McCann  said earlier this year.  Lend Lease is currently building the A$6 billion  Barangaroo 
South financial precinct in Sydney, the biggest development
project in Australia. The company this year completed the south
tower of Walton on the Park, a two-building residential project
in Chicago, and finished redeveloping the 313 Somerset shopping
center on Singapore’s Orchard Road last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  