-- Merkel Suffers Parliamentary Defeat as Opposition Blocks Welfare Overhaul
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2010-12-17T13:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/merkel-suffers-first-parliamentary-loss-as-opposition-blocks-welfare-deal.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
suffered the first parliamentary defeat of her second term as
the opposition blocked a landmark welfare-overhaul package in
the upper house, or Bundesrat.  Failure to push the legislation through marks the first
time an initiative from Merkel’s government has been blocked
since the coalition parties lost their majority in the upper
chamber after a state election defeat in May. Lacking a majority
and facing a united opposition, Merkel may now see more of  her
agenda  knocked down in the remaining three years of her term.  “A vote against her like this carries a signal,”  Hans- Juergen Hoffmann , managing director of Berlin-based polling
company Psephos, said by phone. “It’s a first instance in which
the opposition can show the people that they’re gaining in
strength, that they’re resurgent.”  The blow to Merkel came as she pushed her plans in Brussels
today to stabilize the euro. Back in Berlin, the opposition
rallied against a law overhauling welfare rules, a move made
necessary after Germany’s highest court challenged the formula
by which the long-term unemployed are allotted benefits.  The bill before  the upper house  had aimed to raise monthly
payments by 5 euros ($6.60) to a basic amount of 364 euros and
offered additional allowances for children’s education. The
opposition said that was not enough.  The legislation will now be sent to mediation between the
upper and lower houses, forcing the government to modify its
plans to win approval. The law won’t be able come into effect on
Jan. 1 as the government planned.  Merkel ‘Goodwill’ Appeal  Merkel appealed to the opposition to show “good sense and
goodwill” in the reconciliation process, her spokesman  Steffen Seibert  said by text message from Brussels. The opposition’s
blocking of welfare reform “is a disappointment for many
recipients and their children.”  Merkel faces regional elections next year in seven of
 Germany’s 16 states  that will provide the first snapshot since
May of voter support for her handling of the debt crisis ripping
through the euro region. Polls suggest her Christian Democrats
might lose control of Hamburg on Feb. 20 and Baden-Wuerttemberg
in March, whittling away at her Bundesrat votes making it
increasingly difficult to pass legislation.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc and her Free Democratic
Party coalition partner still have a majority in the lower house
of parliament, the Bundestag. She needs 35 votes in the 69-seat
Bundesrat, made up of state administration representatives, to
secure passage of legislation.  ‘Far More United’  Defeat on welfare “is the first serious signal that Merkel
has lost her majority in the Bundesrat,”  Ulrich Deupmann ,
director of the Berlin-based political-advisory company
Ideas.ag, said by phone. The opposition parties “are far more
united than in the past.”  The Social Democrats took issue this week with Merkel’s
handling of the debt crisis that spread from Greece. Former
Finance Minister  Peer Steinbrueck  and former Foreign Minister
 Frank-Walter Steinmeier  accused her in the Financial Times on
Dec. 15 of “stumbling through.”  Merkel blamed the debt turmoil in Greece after her CDU and
the pro-business FDP lost to the SPD in a May election in North
Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most populous state. That result
deprived her of a Bundesrat majority.  Support for Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc held at 34 percent in a
Germany-wide poll by FG Wahlen for ZDF television today. Backing
for her FDP partner was also unchanged at 5 percent. The
coalition parties’ combined support of 39 percent compares with
48.4 percent they got in the federal election in September last
year when Merkel won her second term.  The Social Democrats had 28 percent in the FG Wahlen poll,
up 1 percentage point, while their traditional allies the Greens
dropped a point to 19 percent. The two parties, which governed
together from 1998 to 2005, won a combined 33.7 percent at the
election.  The monthly poll of 1,421 voters was conducted Dec. 14-16.
The margin of error is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  