-- EU's Bank Stress Tests Require Greater Transparency, Bank of England Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-12-17T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/eu-s-bank-stress-tests-need-increased-transparency-boe-says.html
The  European Union ’s next stress
tests must provide greater transparency to indicate the banking
industry’s ability to withstand risks, the Bank of England said.  Risks to banks are systemic and show the need for “a
comprehensive rather than country-by-country solution,” the
bank said in its Financial Stability Report issued in London
today.  EU bank stress tests in July, which 84 out of 91 banks
passed, were criticized by analysts and investors as
insufficiently rigorous. Four months later, an exodus of
deposits from Irish lenders, which all passed the tests, caused
a funding shortfall which led European governments and the
 International Monetary Fund  to agree on an 85 billion-euro ($112
billion) aid package for the country. Work on the next round of
stress tests will start in February,  Olli Rehn , the EU economic
and monetary affairs commissioner, said on Dec. 7.  In the U.K., banks are likely to require a higher amount of
funding in 2011 than in 2010 as the government-backed Special
Liquidity Scheme and  Credit Guarantee Scheme  expire.  “Planned asset disposals reduce the aggregate funding need
only if the assets are sold outside of the U.K. banking sector,
either to foreign banks or to non-banks,” the report said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Hester  is shrinking the bank’s balance sheet after it
received the world’s biggest banking bailout in 2008. It has
since pared non-core assets by 110 billion pounds to 154 billion
pounds, as of September, and plans to sell the remainder by
2013.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc is shedding assets after the bank
was bailed out by the government. Like RBS, it was ordered last
year to sell divisions by the EU last year as a consequence of
receiving more than 20 billion pounds in state aid.  The report also said banks’ boards should show
“restraint” when distributing profit to equity holders and
staff as they rebuild capital by retaining earnings.  Analysts may be anticipating too high a return on equity
given that the Basel III rules should decrease that return, the
report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 