-- European Stocks Slide; AstraZeneca, Bank of Ireland Shares Drop
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2010-12-17T16:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/european-stock-index-futures-advance-after-eu-leaders-agree-debt-mechanism.html
European stocks fell, erasing this
week’s advance, as an agreement among the region’s leaders to
create a crisis-management mechanism failed to ease concern that
some euro-area nations can’t repay their debts.  AstraZeneca Plc led health-care shares lower, falling the
most in more than two years.  Bank of Ireland Plc  fell the most
in a week as European banks retreated. SAP AG rose after Oracle
Corp., the second-largest software maker, reported earnings that
topped analysts’ predictions. Cap Gemini SA gained 1.8 percent
as Accenture Plc, the second-largest technology-consulting
company, forecast sales for this quarter that topped some
analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  fell 0.4 percent to
276.42 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, ending the week little
changed. The measure advanced for the eighth time in nine days
yesterday after better-than-forecast U.S. economic data provided
more evidence that the recovery is intact.  “The European crisis is not over yet,” said Martin
Huefner, chief economist at Assenagon GmbH in Munich, which has
more than $4.7 billion in client assets. “The decision of the
European summit yesterday is nice to have but doesn’t change the
world. We have to take downgrades or reviews very seriously. On
the positive side, we have good fundamental data and good profit
from companies.”  European Accord  Germany, the biggest contributor to Europe’s bailouts of
Greece and Ireland, pushed through an accord to set up a system
in 2013 that would allow financial aid “if indispensable” to
underpin the euro and might force bondholders to bear some of
the costs of future rescues.  “Our task now is to hold the course, walk not talk, and
prove those wrong who predicted the demise of our common
currency,” European Commission President  Jose Barroso  told
reporters after the first session of an EU summit in Brussels
late yesterday. The summit is slated to end around 1 p.m. today.  Ireland’s credit rating was cut five levels by Moody’s
Investors Service and further downgrades are possible as the
government struggles to contain losses in the country’s banking
system. Moody’s also placed Greece’s Ba1 bond ratings on review
for a possible downgrade, citing heightened concerns about
whether the country will be able to reduce its debt to
“sustainable levels”.  Germany, U.K.  Stocks declined even after a report showed German business
confidence unexpectedly rose to a record in December as stronger
domestic demand helped bolster the recovery in Europe’s largest
economy. A separate report showed U.K. consumer confidence fell
to a 20-month low in November as the looming government budget
squeeze dented Britons’ outlook for 2011.  The Stoxx 600 also slipped amid the expiration of futures
and options on European stocks and equity indexes known as
triple witching. The process known occurs every three months and
can add to market volatility.  National benchmark indexes fell in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index and Germany’s DAX lost
0.5 percent and 0.6 percent, respectively. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
Index slipped 0.2 percent.  AstraZeneca  sank 6.7 percent to 2,941 pence, the first
retreat this week. The drugmaker failed to win U.S. approval for
a new blood thinner to rival Plavix, the world’s second-best
selling drug.  Elekta       Elekta AB  sank 5.8 percent to 261.7 kronor, the biggest
decline since May last year. Investor AB, the Wallenberg
family’s publicly traded holding company, sold 6.2 million
shares in Elekta at 260 kronor a share, Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., which managed the sale, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Sonova Holding AG dropped 2.3 percent to 121.9 Swiss
francs, ending two days of gains. The Swiss hearing-aid maker
was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at UBS AG.  Allied Irish Banks Plc and  Bank of Ireland  slipped 1.1
percent to 45 euro cents and 14 percent to 31.85 euro cents,
respectively.  Ireland’s banks may need to use 10 billion euros ($13.3
billion) out of a 25 billion-euro contingency capital fund being
set up for the country’s lenders as part of an international
bailout package, Moody’s said.  A gauge of European banking shares lost 1.6 percent. Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc fell 5.7 percent to 37.82 pence,
while  National Bank of Greece  dropped 1.2 percent to 6.80 euros.  SAP, MAN  SAP, the world’s largest maker of business-management
software, rose 1.6 percent to 38 euros. Competitor Oracle said
profit excluding certain expenses will be 48 cents to 50 cents a
share, beating the 47-cent average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Autonomy Corp.  increased 5.3 percent to 1,543 pence
amid better-than- estimated earnings forecast at Oracle and
takeover speculation.  MAN SE advanced 2 percent to 91.52 euros.  Europe’s third-
largest maker of commercial vehicles  said 2010 truck deliveries
will probably top an earlier forecast and that sales gains will
continue into next year, powered by demand from emerging
economies.  Cap Gemini, the Paris-based computer-services group, gained
1.8 percent to 34.80 euros. Rival Accenture said net revenue, or
sales before reimbursements, will rise to $5.6 billion to $5.8
billion for the quarter ending in February. Analysts estimated
$5.62 billion on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Royal DSM NV advanced 3.2 percent to 41 euros. The world’s
biggest vitamin maker sold a 50 percent stake in its penicillin
operation to Sinochem Group for 210 million euros, ending a six-
year search for a partner.  National Express Group Plc surged 6.9 percent to 242.8
pence. The company, which operates bus services in the U.K.,
Spain and North America, said it expects adjusted pretax profit
for the full year “to be a little above current market
expectations.”  Suedzucker AG  soared 9.2 percent to 20.20 euros after
raising its full-year forecasts, with sales now predicted to
reach 6 billion euros and operating profit to rise to 500
million euros, after nine-month revenue and earnings gained, the
company said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 