-- Euro Defaults Need to Be Carried Out Quickly: Elena Carletti
-- B y   E l e n a   C a r l e t t i
-- 2010-12-17T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/euro-defaults-need-to-be-carried-out-quickly-commentary-by-elena-carletti.html
Far from being irrational,
markets are quite right this time to be concerned about the
current crisis in the euro area.  History threatens to repeat itself. The first recorded
sovereign default was in the fourth century B.C. when 10 out
of 13 Greek municipalities in the Attic Maritime Association
reneged on loans from the Delos Temple. Today, it looks
increasingly likely that another sovereign default will occur
in Greece in the coming years.  How should the euro area prepare itself for such an
event? The answer: quickly.  The  recent proposal  by France and Germany on sovereign
defaults stressed the importance of collective-action clauses
in euro-area debt contracts. These clauses, which make debt
restructuring faster by forcing minority bondholders to
accept the terms agreed to by a majority of creditors, are no
doubt important to include, but are a distraction from what
is likely to be the main issue, namely financial stability.  Collective-action clauses are designed to resolve
holdouts, whereby some bondholders try to obtain a better
settlement than is on offer. Such problems became serious for
sovereign debt in the 1990s.  Retrospective Laws  Most emerging-market sovereign debt was written under
U.K. or New York law. In the euro area, much of it is under
domestic statute. In Greece, about 90 percent is subject to
local legislation. So national governments can act
retrospectively by passing a law that makes agreements
binding if some bondholders accept the settlement terms.  It seems unlikely that the issues relating to financial
stability can be solved as easily. Most banking regulation
treats sovereign debt as being risk-free so that it isn’t
necessary to hold capital against it. After the 2007 crisis,
regulators encouraged banks to hold more government debt to
ensure they have sufficient liquidity and can post it as
collateral in refinancing operations. Changes are clearly
needed. But it may not be desirable to encourage
diversification of sovereign debt within the euro area.  Diversification helps to reduce risk, but it also
spreads it more widely. In Greece’s case, where the nominal
amount of sovereign debt outstanding is relatively low,
diversification is probably safer since a default can be
absorbed. But for debt issued by larger and greatly indebted
countries, such as Spain, it is more dangerous. There is so
much Spanish debt around that, if widely held, a default
could bring down the entire euro-area banking system.  Quick Default  Careful design of regulation based on the magnitude of
holdings within the financial system is needed. This is only
the start of the institutional changes necessary.  A sovereign default would need to be done very quickly,
otherwise it would trigger enormous capital flows in the euro
area from countries perceived to be weak to those seen as
strong, such as Germany. It would be hard to stop this kind
of occurrence in anticipation of a default, let alone if the
bankruptcy process were to take a minimum of six months, as
some legal experts have suggested for Greece. Issues relating
to priority of claims, deposit insurance and guarantees for
other bank-debt holders would need to be sorted out.  There is an alternative to sovereign default in the euro
area: A country could simply leave the currency union,
possibly temporarily. This would also need to be done quickly
to avoid massive capital outflows. A government would have to
redenominate overnight all contracts into a new currency,
presumably at a 1-to-1 ratio with the original euro amounts.
There would still be a market-determined exchange rate
between the new currency and the euro.  Euro Exit  There would certainly be messy details, but the great
advantage would be for the defaulting government to regain
control of monetary policy and potentially be able to
guarantee the banking system. There would be inflation, but
this, together with the devaluation of the local currency,
would help the country to grow by boosting exports. A few
years after a sovereign nation has brought its budget deficit
and debt under control, it could reapply to join the euro.  The financial-stability issues that sovereign default
raises in modern financial systems should be the focus of
official euro-area discussions. It is somewhat surprising
that they have -- at least formally -- not been so far. There
is no easy way out. It’s time to break such taboos.  ( Elena Carletti  is a professor of economics at the
European University Institute in Florence, Italy. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Elena Carletti at  Elena.carletti@eui.eu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  