-- European Stocks Climb 0.1% as Drop in Bank Shares Curbs U.S.-Fueled Rally
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-18T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/european-stocks-snap-two-week-gain-as-banks-drop-on-sovereign-debt-concern.html
European stocks  halted a two-week
rally as better-than-estimated U.S. economic data failed to
allay concern that the sovereign-debt crisis will spread from
Greece and Ireland to other euro-area nations.  Bank of Ireland Plc and Banco Santander SA led a selloff in
banks, falling 19 percent and 3.9 percent respectively, as
Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s credit rating and put
Spain on review for a possible downgrade. Technology shares
limited losses after Siemens AG announced plans to take a stake
in Atos Origin SA and Oracle Corp.’s earnings forecast sent
Autonomy Corp. higher.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  was little changed this past
week, rising 0.1 percent. Even so, the benchmark gauge has
climbed 5.6 percent so far this month as economic data continued
to bolster confidence in the global recovery and China refrained
from raising interest rates even as its inflation rate surged.
For the year, the Stoxx 600 has rallied 8.9 percent.  “There has been a battle between continuing positive
developments from U.S. economic indicators and news of the debt
situation in fringe European countries,”  Ioan Smith , director
at Knight Capital Europe Ltd. in London, said. “In truth,
Europe does not yet have a convincing answer and the markets
know it.”  U.S. reports this week showed that industrial production
rose more than forecast in November, while manufacturing in both
the New York and Philadelphia regions rebounded, topping
economists’ estimates. Other figures showed the number of U.S.
workers filing first-time jobless claims unexpectedly declined
last week, while sales at U.S. retailers in November rose more
than forecast.  Berlusconi’s Battle  National benchmark indexes still retreated in 12 of
Europe’s 18 western markets. France’s  CAC 40 Index  gained 0.3
percent, the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index  rose 1 percent, while
Germany’s DAX Index slid 0.3 percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB Index
lost 2 percent as Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  fought off a
challenge to his leadership, while Belgium’s Bel 20 Index fell
1.2 percent after Standard & Poor’s lowered its outlook on the
country’s debt rating to negative.  European Union leaders this week agreed to amend the bloc’s
treaties to create a permanent debt-crisis mechanism in 2013
even as they struggled to bridge divisions over short-term steps
to stabilize bond markets. The European Central Bank also said
it will increase its capital base by 5 billion euros ($6.6
billion) to 10.76 billion euros.  Bank of Ireland Plunges  Bank of Ireland Plc tumbled 18 percent to a two-week low
after Moody’s cut Ireland’s credit rating by five notches and
said further downgrades are possible as the government struggles
to contains losses in the country’s banking system. Moody’s also
put Greece’s Ba1 bond ratings on review for a possible
downgrade.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc lost 2.8 percent. The bank expects
to report an increased impairment charge of 4.3 billion pounds
($6.7 billion) because of losses from Irish loans. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc fell 9.3 percent.  Santander, Spain’s largest bank, retreated 3.9 percent and
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, the second biggest, dropped
5.7 percent in Madrid. Moody’s placed Spain’s Aa1 local and
foreign currency government bond ratings on review, saying the
country will need to raise about 170 billion euros in 2011.  Inditex SA retreated 7.5 percent in Madrid after the
world’s largest clothing retailer reported slower profit growth
in the three months to Oct. 31. Even so, the owner of the Zara
chain has surged 34 percent this year.  Atos Origin, Autonomy  Atos Origin led technology shares higher, surging 18
percent. Siemens AG said it plans to sell its computer-services
unit to Atos in an 850 million-euro transaction that gives the
Germany engineering company a 15 percent stake in the combined
entity. Siemens will contribute about 250 million euros to help
the two businesses integrate.  Autonomy, Britain’s second-largest software company, rose
12 percent as Oracle, the world’s second-largest software maker,
forecast profit that topped analysts’ projections.  Separately, the Daily Mail reported that Autonomy could be
the subject of a bidding war between Microsoft Corp. and Oracle
in January. The newspaper did not cite anyone.  Among European drug stocks, Novartis AG jumped 6.1 percent
after the Swiss company said it will take full control of U.S-
based Alcon Inc., ending an 11-month dispute with minority
shareholders.  AstraZeneca Drops  AstraZeneca Plc fell 2.3 percent after the British
drugmaker failed to win U.S. approval for a new blood thinner to
rival Plavix, the world’s second-best selling drug.  Elsewhere, TUI AG rallied 10 percent as the German owner of
Europe’s largest travel company said profit at Hapag-Lloyd AG
boosted its full-year operating result.  Capital Shopping Centres Group Plc jumped 7.1 percent after
Simon Property Group Inc. made a bid for Britain’s biggest
retail landlord that values the company at 2.9 billion pounds.
Capital Shopping later rejected the proposal.  BP Plc advanced 2.7 percent as the international oil
company sold fields in Pakistan to Hong Kong-based investment
group United Energy Group Ltd. as part of its plan to pay for
the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 