-- U.S. Syndicated Loans Outpacing Junk Bonds This Quarter as Leverage Wanes
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2010-12-17T13:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/leveraged-loans-return-10-outpacing-junk-bonds-since-october.html
Leveraged-loan returns have passed
10 percent for the year in the U.S., and outpaced junk bonds
since October, as borrowers offer higher coupons on bank debt to
generate demand amid a decline in new collateralized loan
obligations.  The gains in the iBoxx USD Leveraged Loans Index include a
3.14 percent return this quarter, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd. That compares with a 1.92
percent quarter-to-date increase in the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch U.S. High-Yield Master II index.  Companies are offering loans with higher coupons to get
deals arranged because less of the debt is being bundled into
so-called levered structured products, such as CLOs, according
to  Jonathan Blau , head of global leveraged finance strategy at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York. High-yield bonds, which are
used less in structured products, are more volatile and tend to
suffer wider price swings in response to such shocks as
sovereign debt concerns.  “Investors that are taking advantage of the loan market
now are using zero or very low leverage,” Blau said.
“Therefore, in order to meet the return hurdle that investors
are demanding issuers have to offer much more spread to get
deals done.”  The year-to-date total return on the loan index passed 10
percent this week, closing at 10.47 percent yesterday, according
to data provided by Markit. The gauge is comprised of about 850
loans from 700 issuers. The total return on the high-yield index
is 14.13 percent so far this year.  Historical returns for loans from 1997 through 2007 have
been around 5 percent, according to  Otis Casey , a credit analyst
at Markit in New York. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  ‘Good Returns’  About a third of all loans have been refinanced since the
beginning of 2009, according to data provided by Credit Suisse,
which have a new average all-in coupon of 5.7 percent, 230 basis
points higher than the average all-in coupon of the older loans.  “We have a situation that is considerably easier in terms
of generating good returns without investors using a lot of
leverage,” Blau said. “What’s happened since Lehman and the
crisis is that money has flown into the loan market.”  About $3.5 billion of CLOs backed by widely syndicated
loans have been issued this year as of Dec. 2, according to
Bloomberg data. About $91.1 billion of CLOs were arranged in
2007 at the peak of the market, according to Morgan Stanley
data.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  Shrinking Market  A busy new issue calendar hasn’t hurt loan prices this year
because supply hasn’t been able to prevent the loan market from
continuing to shrink. So far this year about $345 million in
U.S. leveraged loans have been arranged, up from $157 million in
the same period last year, according to Bloomberg data.  The notional volume of the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA Loan
Index fell to $504.8 billion in November of this year from
$525.3 billion in January, according to a report by New York-
based CreditSights Inc.  “The new issue volume has not put a damper on things
because ultimately flows and repayments have outpaced supply,”
said  George K. Goudelias , senior portfolio manager at Seix
Investment Advisors LLC, which has $11.5 billion in leveraged
assets under management. “We expect supply and demand will
become more balanced.”  Rising Rates  Leveraged loans are also poised to get a boost as investors
anticipate a rise in interest rates, according to a Dec. 13
report by Pacific Investment Management Co. Loans gained “long
before” the last period of interest-rate increases beginning in
2004, portfolio manager  Eve Tournier  and product manager  Michael Brownell , wrote in the report.  Investors are speculating that the three-month London
interbank offered rate, which banks charge to lend to each
other, will rise to more than 1 percent by mid-March 2012 from
0.30 percent today, Bloomberg data show. At the beginning of
November they bet Libor would breach that level by February
2013.  When the central bank tightens monetary policy short-term
rates tend to rise, helping loans, which are floating-rate
products, Blau said.  “A rise in the front end of the curve helps loans,” he
said. “Whatever negative effects come about because of a
tightening of credit is overwhelmed because rates are rising and
you’ve got more coupon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 