-- Hewlett-Packard Says Bribery Investigation Expanded
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2010-12-17T10:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/hewlett-packard-says-u-s-has-expanded-its-bribery-investigation.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. , under
international investigation for potential violations of laws
prohibiting bribery in Russia, said U.S. prosecutors and
regulators expanded the probe to include other regions.  The U.S. Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission are examining whether Hewlett-Packard violated the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act with deals in Russia, Serbia and
the Commonwealth of Independent States dating back to 2000,
according to a statement in a regulatory filing yesterday.  Investigators also are seeking information related to two
former Hewlett-Packard executives who worked in Russia and
whether employees in Russia, Germany, Austria, Serbia, the
Netherlands or the CIS “were involved in kickbacks or other
improper payments to channel partners, or state-owned or private
entities,” according to the filing.  Hewlett-Packard , the biggest maker of personal computers
and printers, said it’s cooperating with the investigation.  The Justice Department and the SEC joined a probe by German
prosecutors in September into Hewlett-Packard’s practices,
according to a regulatory filing from the company at the time.
Hewlett-Packard is based in Palo Alto, California.  Germany shared their findings in the case with U.S.
investigators after receiving a request for legal assistance,
Wolfgang Klein, spokesman for Saxony’s Chief Prosecutor’s
Office, said in an interview today. SEC and Justice Department
personnel came to Germany twice this year for meetings, he said.  Dresden  Prosecutors in Dresden, Germany, are investigating whether
current and former Hewlett-Packard employees engaged in bribery,
embezzlement and tax evasion relating to a 35 million-euro ($47
million) transaction between a former German subsidiary and the
Chief Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Russian Federation,
according.  German investigators reviewed information they received
from other countries, including Russia, which prompted new leads
and requests to more countries for assistance, Klein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  