-- Ex-JPMorgan Banker Testifies That Minnesota Broker Helped Him Rig Bids
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-12-17T10:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ex-jpmorgan-banker-says-minnesota-broker-helped-him-rig-bids.html
A former  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  banker
who conspired to fix prices on municipal-bond investment
contracts said he was aided by a Minnesota company that ran
auctions for the deals on behalf of public agencies.  James Hertz , 53, who admitted fraud and conspiracy charges,
said Sound Capital Management Inc., an Eden Prairie-based
financial adviser to local governments, told him what a
competitor bid so he could adjust his offer and win the deal,
according to a transcript of his plea hearing Nov. 30. The
charges say Hertz received tips about other bids from “Broker
E,” an unidentified Minnesota firm.  Sound Capital was one of at least three financial advisers
that federal agents raided in 2006. The action was part of a
national investigation of a conspiracy among banks to carve up
the market for investments made with money that public agencies
raise in the $2.8 trillion municipal-bond market.  The Justice Department hasn’t accused  Sound Capital  of
wrongdoing.  Johan Rosenberg , the company’s chief executive, said
he has no indication that anyone at the firm will face charges
and disputed Hertz’s characterization.  “Every situation can be interpreted two ways,” he said.
“Sound Capital continues to stand by its practices.”  Rosenberg is also chief executive of DerivActiv LLC, a firm
that values derivatives for municipalities and non-profits.  Former employees of UBS AG, CDR Financial Products Inc. and
two other brokers for local governments have pleaded guilty to
running sham auctions for investments that delivered banks money
at taxpayers’ expense.  Bigger Profit  Hertz testified that information from Sound Capital boosted
JPMorgan’s earnings on the transaction.  “This resulted in JPMorgan Chase being awarded the
contract at an increased profit,” he said during his court
appearance.  Hertz didn’t return a message left at his home in Cranford,
New Jersey. He is cooperating with the investigation, according
to a Nov. 30 Justice Department news release.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment. She said in a Nov. 30 e-mail that JPMorgan fired Hertz
in 2007 when he failed to cooperate with the bank’s internal
investigation of the matter.  As a result of the federal probe, advisers have admitted to
receiving kickbacks from bankers in return for steering
investment work their way.  Eight people have admitted to participating in the
conspiracy, including a former banker with Bank of America
Corp., and nine others are fighting charges. Bank of America
this month agreed to pay $137 million to settle state and
federal investigations into the reinvestment business.  Parking Money  The investigation centers on investments that
municipalities buy with money raised by selling bonds. The
investments, known as guaranteed investment contracts, allow
them to earn a return until the cash is needed for schools,
roads or other public works. The contracts can be awarded on
several factors, including dollar amounts, interest rates
offered or an investment’s duration.  The U.S. Treasury Department encourages competitive bidding
to ensure that localities aren’t receiving below-market returns.
Overcharges also cost the federal government, because it
requires localities to return some earnings on the investment of
tax-exempt-bond proceeds to the Internal Revenue Service.  In the charges against Hertz, the government says he
conspired with Broker E, which it said worked for local
governments across the country.  During his court appearance, Hertz said Sound Capital
helped him boost his earnings on a 2004 investment agreement,
whose purchaser wasn’t identified.  The bidding to win the contract was decided by which bank
would provide the agreement with earliest termination. After he
submitted the winning bid, Sound Capital let him revise it to
extend the maturity closer to that of the second-highest bidder,
which made the contract more profitable to the bank, he said.  “I did this with full knowledge that it would defraud the
government,” Hertz said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 