-- Facebook, Groupon Lead 54% Rise in Value of Private Companies, Study Finds
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2010-12-17T20:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/facebook-groupon-lead-54-rise-in-value-of-private-companies-report-find.html
Facebook Inc., Groupon Inc., Twitter
Inc. and other top venture-backed Web companies have seen their
combined value rise 54 percent since June, as investors race to
buy stakes in social-media startups, according to Nyppex LLC.  Facebook’s value, based on the prices institutions are
bidding for privately held shares, has climbed 56 percent to
$41.2 billion as of Dec. 1,  Nyppex  said today in a report.
Groupon’s valuation quadrupled to $4.8 billion, while Twitter
more than doubled to $3.71 billion.  Nyppex produced the research for money managers, venture
funds and corporations that want a piece of Web startups, said
 Laurence Allen , managing member at the firm. He focuses on so-
called secondary transactions -- deals that involve buying stock
from existing shareholders, including employees, rather than
directly from the company. Nyppex estimates that secondary-
transaction volume will more than double this year to $4.9
billion as companies delay initial public offerings.  “This trend will create even more pressure on portfolio
managers to evaluate how to participate in growing private
companies,” said Allen, whose firm is based in Rye Brook, New
York. “We get new buy orders weekly from institutions trying to
buy secondary shares in private social-media companies for the
first time.”  More Insight  The Nyppex report reflects efforts to glean deeper insights
into companies that aren’t required to disclose quarterly
results, opening the businesses to a wider range of would-be
investors.  Nyppex measured the value of 11 Internet companies. The
firm looked at how much institutions are offering for shares,
along with what individual, or retail, investors are paying.
Retail investors, who have more limited access to shares, paid a
31 percent premium compared with institutions, up from 12
percent in June.  The report also offers annual revenue projections for each
company through at least 2012, and estimates for financial data,
including cash balances, debt and number of shares outstanding,
where available. Twitter’s sales, for instance, will more than
double to $300 million next year, Nyppex estimates.  Nyppex is part of a growing number of firms that are
providing financial information on private companies and helping
facilitate trades of their stock. SecondMarket Inc. opened a
marketplace for secondary shares last year, as did SharesPost
Inc., which brokers trades and provides estimated valuations.  Higher Valuation  Estimates of Facebook’s valuation can vary widely. A recent
SharesPost auction pegged its worth at $56.7 billion, the online
marketplace said today. The auction involved 165,000 shares at a
price of $25, according to the Santa Monica, California-based
firm.  “You have an increasing number of wonderful companies that
have already proven they have a lot of value,” said  Eric Jackson , who co-founded  CapLinked Inc.  last year to help private
companies and investors connect online. “People naturally want
a chance to invest in a company like that.”  Even as Nyppex tries to dig deeper into the world of
private companies, there are limits to the amount of information
it can provide. For example, the firm doesn’t list a cash
balance for some of the startups, including Groupon, Yelp Inc.
and Zynga Game Network Inc.  Twitter, the San Francisco-based microblogging service,
said this week that it raised $200 million in venture capital,
valuing the company at $3.7 billion. Groupon, based in Chicago,
rejected a $6 billion acquisition offer from  Google Inc.  this
month and is now seeking private funding, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  The other companies tracked by Nyppex are LinkedIn Corp.,
RockYou Inc., Linden Research Inc., Digg Inc., Loopt Inc. and
Eventful Inc. The 54 percent increase in the group’s value
compares with a 21 percent advance in the  Nasdaq Composite Index 
over the same five-month stretch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ari Levy  in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  