-- Finra Retooling Market Surveillance to Catch Abuses
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-12-17T22:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/finra-plans-to-improve-surveillance-to-catch-insider-trading.html
The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority is revamping how it scans for abuses such as insider
trading, responding to increased fragmentation of markets, Chief
Executive Officer  Richard Ketchum  said today.  Finra conducts market surveillance for most stock
exchanges, reflecting 80 percent of U.S. trading, after  adding 
NYSE Euronext’s markets to its oversight responsibilities in
June. While the regulator currently operates separate databases
for trading-related information for securities listed on the New
York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market, the goal is to
“pull that together” in 2011 to spot manipulative and illegal
activity across venues, Ketchum told reporters in New York.  With stock activity dispersed across as many as 50 venues
including exchanges, electronic communication networks, dark
pools and the trading desks of broker-dealers, manipulative
practices have spread out in an attempt to elude regulators, he
said. Dark pools are private venues that match orders without
displaying quotes. Surveillance must aggregate data across
markets to identify patterns and related trading, Ketchum said.  “Putting all that information together so people can see
relationships” across markets is critical, he said. “That will
come as our major task in 2011.”  ‘Fuller Picture’  Data for Nasdaq-listed securities and over-the-counter or
off-exchange trading resides in one database, while NYSE and
NYSE Arca information is in another, said Finra Vice Chairman
 Stephen Luparello . Adding the latter data into the former system
will give regulators a “much fuller picture” of markets, he
said. NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  are based in New
York. Finra, whose main task is overseeing more than 4,600
brokers, is based in Washington.  Finra conducts market surveillance, investigations,
enforcement activities and regulation of member firms for NYSE,
Nasdaq and other exchanges. It does “less than the complete
sweep” for Bats Global Markets and Direct Edge Holdings LLC,
with those exchange owners managing some of that business,
Luparello said.  “We think that’s less than optimal,” he said. Finra would
like to consolidate the data so its surveillance can operate
across all 13 U.S. exchanges.  Uniform Data  Finra received approval from the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission last month to expand the information it
collects for orders and transactions in Nasdaq-listed securities
to those listed on other exchanges including NYSE. The broader
 Order Audit Trail System  will provide uniform data for all
securities, enabling Finra to compile aggregated information
that may be similar to the so-called consolidated audit trail
the SEC  proposed  in May.  A consolidated audit trail system that comprises all
trading-related data for orders would allow regulators to
reconstruct market events such as the May 6 plunge that erased
$862 billion in equity value in 20 minutes and strengthen
surveillance, the SEC said when it presented its plan.  Expanding OATS would improve the data available to
regulators in the coming months, Ketchum said. A separate
proposal by the SEC to track the buying and selling by
individuals and firms executing more than 2 million shares a day
would help regulators understand what active traders are doing,
he said. That system would also apply to traders processing $20
million in equities a day or $200 million in a month.  Looking for Patterns  Finra identifies many of the insider trading cases it
investigates based on alerts from an electronic surveillance
system it uses called Sonar, according to  Cameron Funkhouser ,
executive vice president and head of Finra’s office of fraud
detection and market intelligence. The system tracks news in
publicly listed companies and identifies potential instances of
abusive trading. Older investigations may also be roped into an
analysis as the regulator looks for patterns across time.  Finra currently has between 200 to 400 active insider
trading investigations, Funkhouser said. It’s referred up to six
“serial insider-trading rings” to the SEC or other law
enforcement agencies in the past two years, including one that
led to the SEC’s Dec. 7  action  against an information technology
manager at a Delaware law firm and his brother-in-law, he said.  Finra in 2011 will also focus on manipulative activity that
relies on algorithms or speed-focused automated trading
strategies that submit buy and sell orders to marketplaces based
on price data, Ketchum said.  Trillium Brokerage  “Most high-frequency trading activity is legitimate,”
Ketchum said. “It doesn’t involve manipulative activity and
operates entirely within the law.” Still, “we do see instances
where it’s not,” he said. His organization sees activity that
ranges “from things that might be troubling to things that are
fraud,” he said.  An example of the type of activity Finra will pursue more
aggressively is the case it announced in September against
Trillium Brokerage Services LLC, a proprietary trading firm that
engaged in activity aimed at inducing other firms to respond to
its bids and offers, Ketchum said. Trillium employed
manipulative practices that high-frequency traders’ computers
were likely to identify as market-moving activity, prompting
them to react to the firm’s quotes, he said. Finra’s sanctions
against the firm and 11 employees totaled $2.3 million,
according to a  notice .  That’s a “good example of what you’re going to see going
into 2011 with respect to market surveillance,” Ketchum said.
“We redesigned our surveillance to be much more focused on this
type of activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nina Mehta  in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 