-- Flextronics’ Shimoon Loses Bid for Bail in U.S. Trading Probe
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/flextronics-shimoon-appears-in-court-in-trading-case-update1-.html
Walter Shimoon , the ex-manager at
 Flextronics International Ltd.  arrested two days ago in an
insider-trading probe, is scheduled to make a formal request for
bail on Dec. 20 after a federal prosecutor said there’s a danger
he’ll flee if freed.  Shimoon, whose former employer supplies cameras and battery
chargers for  Apple Inc.  devices, made his first court appearance
yesterday in the San Diego federal courthouse and his lawyer
sought to post a bond allowing his release. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Marietta Geckos objected, saying there’s a “serious
risk of flight.”  “This was a massive fraud involving more than
$10 million” that “caused incredible damage to Apple,” Geckos
told U.S. Magistrate Judge Bernard G. Skomal.  Shimoon, 39, was one of three technology firm employees
arrested Dec. 16 on charges of wire fraud and conspiracy for
allegedly providing inside information about their companies to
clients of Primary Global Research LLC, a consulting company
that provides experts to investors. A fourth person arrested,
 James Fleishman , was an account representative at Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global.  ‘Corrupt Network’  “A corrupt network of insiders at some of the world’s
leading technology companies served as so-called consultants who
sold out their employers by stealing and then peddling their
valuable inside information,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara said in a statement.  According to the criminal complaint unsealed yesterday,
U.S. investigators made consensual and wiretap recordings of an
unidentified expert-networking firm’s phones, the land lines of
an unidentified hedge fund and the mobile phones of two of the
defendants, Shimoon and Mark Anthony Longoria, of Advanced Micro
Devices Inc.  Shimoon, Longoria and Manosha Karunatilaka, who was
employed at chipmaker Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.,
were charged with wire fraud and conspiracy to commit securities
fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud, prosecutors said.  If convicted of the wire fraud charge, the defendants face
as long as 20 years in prison, Edeli Rivera, a spokeswoman for
Bharara’s office, said.  Shimoon didn’t enter a plea yesterday. Fleishman appeared
in federal court in San Jose, California, Dec. 16 and was
released on $700,000 bail. Longoria was granted $50,000 bail and
freed by a federal magistrate in Austin, Texas. Karunatilaka got
bail of $300,000 in Boston federal court, his lawyer, Brad
Bailey, said.  Nationwide Investigation  The Dec. 16 arrests were the latest development in a
nationwide investigation of illegal trading at hedge funds by
Bharara, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Flextronics is a supplier of cameras and battery chargers
for Apple’s iPhone and iPod, according to the complaint.
Prosecutors allege Shimoon provided inside information about
Apple’s sales figures and product roadmap, including details
about the iPad and iPhone 4 before the devices were released.  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.  Shimoon’s lawyer, Jeremy Warren, argued in court yesterday
that he should be allowed to post a bond using the equity in his
home and retirement accounts as collateral. Warren also told the
judge Shimoon has strong ties in San Diego and that his wife,
who is eight months pregnant, is a university professor there.  The judge ordered Shimoon to remain in custody at the San
Diego Metropolitan Correctional Center.  Shimoon has been fired, Singapore-based Flextronics said.  “Flextronics has a practice of fully cooperating with
regulatory inquiries and has clear policies prohibiting the
release of confidential information about the company and its
business partners,”  Renee Brotherton , a spokeswoman for the
company, said yesterday in a statement.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-02823, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in San Diego at  callahan@san.rr.com  or
.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 