-- Former Dell Worker Said He Leaked Inside Data to Guidepoint Global Clients
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/former-dell-worker-said-he-leaked-inside-data-to-guidepoint-global-clients.html
When Former  Dell Inc.  Global Supply
Manager Daniel Devore pleaded guilty last week to insider-
trading charges, he admitted to leaking inside information to
clients of consulting and research firm Guidepoint Global LLC.  DeVore made the confession as part of his Dec. 10 guilty
plea to conspiracy and wire fraud charges in Manhattan federal
court. He also said he leaked tips to clients of Primary Global
Research, another research firm. DeVore is cooperating with
prosecutors in their probe of insider trading on Wall Street.  “I also provided material non-public information to
clients of Guidepoint and Vista,” he told U.S. District Judge
 Jed Rakoff , according to the transcript of his plea.  Guidepoint, a so-called expert-networking firm, acquired
Vista Research Inc. from Standard & Poor’s on May 21, 2009,
according to a statement on Guidepoint’s  website . Calls for
comment to a spokesman for New York-based Guidepoint weren’t
immediately returned.  Federal prosecutors on Dec. 16 arrested a Primary Global
sales manager,  James Fleishman , and three employees of
technology companies who also worked as consultants for the
Mountain View, California-based firm in a widening crackdown on
insider trading. Prosecutors also announced Devore’s guilty
plea, a transcript of which was made public Dec. 16.  The insider trading investigation became public last year
and has led to 15 guilty pleas and more than two dozen arrests,
including that of  Raj Rajaratnam , co-founder of the Galleon
Group LLC hedge fund. Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing. Another
Primary Global employee, Don Ching Trang Chu, was arrested last
month.  Passed Tips  Guidepoint is “an exclusive network of academic and
industry professionals who consult to business decision-makers
and leading investors around the world,” according to its
website.  Its advisors include executives, managers, doctors,
engineers, attorneys and consultants who “provide clients
insight into the latest developments in their industries.”  Guidepoint was started in 2003 as Clinical Advisors, and
changed its name in 2007 as it broadened its network of experts
beyond those in the healthcare and medical industries. In 2009,
after acquiring Vista, its base of experts grew to more than
130,000, according to its website.  On Nov. 30, Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth
 William F. Galvin  subpoenaed Guidepoint in connection with its
relationship with a hedge fund in Massachusetts.  ‘Bribing You?’  Gerson Lehrman Group in New York is the largest expert
network in the U.S, according to its website.  In his guilty plea, DeVore said he worked as a consultant
for Primary Global, Guidepoint and Vista from late 2007 until
August 2010. He said he passed information about Dell’s product
numbers, pricing inventory and market share to Primary Global
clients including money managers and hedge funds, many of whom
were based in New York.  Rakoff asked Devore whether he “lined” his pocket by
selling insider information to outsides.  “Through the arrangement of PGR, yes,” DeVore replied.  Rakoff asked DeVore whether Primary Global was “bribing
you” to disclose inside information. DeVore, who was paid a
total of about $145,000 by the firm, said yes.  Suppliers  “I was violating nondisclosure agreements that Dell had
with its suppliers,” including Seagate Technology PLC and
Western Digital Corp., he said.  As part of DeVore’s cooperation agreement with prosecutors,
he promised to disclose details of his “securities fraud”
while working at Primary Global, Guidepoint and Vista, according
to court papers.  At the hearing, Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps asked
Rakoff to postpone DeVore’s sentencing for three years, “owing
to the large nature of this investigation.” The judge, while
expressing surprise that the investigation would take so long,
agreed to the request.  Guidepoint’s compliance page bars consultants from
disclosing confidential information. “An Advisor’s membership
and participation may not result in the disclosure of any
confidential or proprietary information (including trade
secrets) not owned exclusively by the Advisor,” it says.  Mimi Barker , a spokeswoman for McGraw-Hill Cos.’ Standard &
Poor’s, the world’s leading index provider, didn’t have an
immediate comment.  The case is U.S. v. DeVore, 10-cr-1248, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net  and;
 David Glovin  in New York at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 