-- Ex-Jefferies Money Manager Contorinis Gets Six-Year Term in Insider Scheme
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/former-jefferies-fund-manager-gets-six-years-in-7-million-trading-scheme.html
Joseph Contorinis , the former
 Jefferies Paragon Fund  money manager convicted in an insider-
trading scheme that prosecutors said netted more than $7 million
in illegal profits, was sentenced to six years in prison.  “This is a crime that does damage to the national
economy,” U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan  in New York said
yesterday as he sentenced Contorinis. “It’s very important to
send a message through the sentence imposed on you.”  “You will become a poster child for what happens,”
Sullivan added. He also ordered Contorinis to forfeit as much as
$13 million.  Contorinis was convicted by a federal jury in Manhattan in
October of securities fraud and conspiracy. Jurors found that he
illegally traded on inside merger tips supplied by  Nicos Stephanou , an investment banker who was the government’s chief
witness in the trial.  Prosecutors asked Sullivan to send Contorinis to prison for
about 8 years to 10 years, as recommended by U.S. sentencing
guidelines. Lawyers for Contorinis, who is in custody, asked for
a “significantly” lesser sentence, saying the money manager’s
profit from the trades was less than $1 million.  Life ‘Ruined’  “His life has been ruined,”  Roberto Finzi , a lawyer for
Contorinis, told Sullivan. “His relationship with his family
has been ruined. His reputation has been ruined.”  Finzi argued that a sentence of 8 years to 10 years was
extreme and said the judge shouldn’t punish Contorinis “for all
the others who aren’t caught.” Finzi distinguished insider
trading from a Madoff-like Ponzi scheme that costs investors
their life savings and said that virtually all of the many
thousands of stock trades Contorinis made in his career were
untainted.  Prosecutors said Contorinis had lied at the trial when he
testified that he relied on an analyst report for his trades.  “A message needs to be sent to traders and hedge funds,
that you can’t point to analyst reports and paper the file”
with documents suggesting the trades were lawful, Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Andrew Fish  said. “People need to understand that when
you get caught, they’re going to get punished severely.”  Galleon Case  Stephanou, who was an associate director of mergers and
acquisitions at Zurich-based  UBS AG , passed along tips to
Contorinis from 2004 to 2006, according to testimony at the
trial. He was on the UBS team advising Cerberus Capital
Management LP, part of the group trying to buy Albertsons Inc.
in 2006.  Stephanou pleaded guilty in the case and testified against
Contorinis in exchange for leniency. He testified that he told
Contorinis and other friends about pending deals, including the
acquisition of Albertsons, which was then the second-biggest
U.S. grocer.  At the time, Contorinis’s hedge fund held more than $70
million in Albertsons stock, prosecutors said.  Separately, Sullivan is presiding over a pending insider-
trading case against former Galleon Group LLC trader  Zvi Goffer 
and other traders.  While there was no reference to the Galleon case, Sullivan
said the public “can get very cynical when they realize that
people who manage hedge funds engage in insider trading.”  The case is U.S. v. Contorinis, 09-cr-01083, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Glovin  in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 