-- France Telecom Turns to Wireless Payments as It Battles With Apple, Google
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-17T08:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/france-telecom-turns-to-wireless-payments-as-it-battles-with-apple-google.html
France Telecom SA  will enable its
customers to pay for their rides on the Paris metro or for
retail purchases with their mobile phones as it seeks to win
ground in services from Apple Inc. and Google Inc.  France’s largest phone company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that it will begin work on a new generation
of SIM cards for so-called contactless payments. The company
will work with handset manufacturers, and plans to get secured
SIM cards in customers’ phones from the second half of next
year. Phones with such technology, common in Japan, are used to
make payments with a wave in front of a reader.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephane Richard , like executives
at other phone companies, is searching for new revenue sources
to avoid ceding the services market to  Apple  and  Google , whose
offerings dominate many users’ mobile experiences. With their
billing systems, operators including  Vodafone Group Plc  and AT&T
Inc. have targeted mobile payments.  “Mobile payments look like a strong opportunity to
everybody, but nobody’s sure yet exactly how to capture it,”
said  Pierre Ferragu , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein Ltd. in
London. “Apple and other handset manufacturers think that if
they are first with the technology, they’ll take a cut of the
revenue. Operators think the same.”  Google is introducing a platform for Near Field
Communications, the technology that underpins contactless
payment, into  the newest version  of its Android platform. Apple
hired Benjamin Vigier, an NFC expert, in August as its product
manager for mobile commerce, the New York Times reported.  At Stake  NFC isn’t the only technology in which operators and
handset manufacturers may jockey to establish standards. The GSM
Association, a trade group representing operators, began work in
November on the development of “soft SIM’’ technology, which
would make it easier for customers to switch providers by
eliminating the need for a physical SIM card, after Apple
proposed an effort of its own.  The stakes are high for companies looking for a piece of
the mobile-payments market. The global value of goods purchased
via mobile devices will  more than double  to about $200 billion
in 2012, compared with just under $100 billion this year,
according to Juniper Research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at   vroot@bloomberg.net ; 