-- FSA Negotiates With U.K. Banks to Identify Who Is Covered by Bonus Rules
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-12-17T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/fsa-meets-with-banks-to-identify-who-is-covered-by-bonus-rules.html
The U.K. Financial Services
Authority is in negotiations with lenders to identify which
bankers will be covered by European Union rules restricting
guaranteed bonuses and up-front cash payments.  “The FSA is already talking to banks in terms of who they
put on the list of code staff affected by the proposals,”
 Stefan Martin , an employment lawyer at  Allen & Overy LLP  in
London, said in a telephone interview. “The largest number I
heard for a single bank is 150.”  European Union regulators approved laws to curb incentives
for excessive risk-taking earlier this month, imposing limits on
cash payouts and the size of bankers’ bonuses. The rules limit
bankers to receive about 25 percent of their bonuses in
immediate cash payouts and require the rest to be deferred or
held in shares for a minimum of three years.  The FSA will announce bonus rules to include the EU
restrictions as early as today. Firms are required to implement
the rules by Jan. 1.  “In order to get everyone ready by the Dec. 31 deadline
we’ve had talks with a number of institutions,”  Heidi Ashley ,
an FSA spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  The FSA is trying to leave banks less room to interpret who
is covered by the rules, said  Darren Fox , financial regulation
partner at Simmons & Simmons LLP.  “The final version will be much more prescriptive on which
staff” are covered compared with earlier guidelines, Fox said
in an interview.  Bigger Players  While banks work with FSA on who is covered, many hedge
funds will avoid the rules on share awards depending on their
“prudential risk profile,” the  Committee of European Banking
Supervisors  said in an e-mailed statement last week. The U.K.
regulator will also allow small investment funds to escape the
toughest rules regarding share awards, deferral and bonus
disclosure.  “The FSA will be focusing on the bigger players,” Martin
said. “In extreme cases the FSA could rip up any bonus
agreements and force an individual to pay back any money
received in breach of the rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 