-- U.K. Stocks Fall, Led by Lloyds, RBS on Irish Loan Losses; Autonomy Climbs
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-17T16:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ftse-100-stock-index-rises-in-london-vodafone-royal-dutch-shell-advance.html
U.K. stocks  fell for a third day,
led by a decline in banks, as an agreement among Europe’s
leaders to create a crisis-management mechanism failed to ease
concern that some euro-area nations will default on their debt.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc lost 3.6 percent after saying it
expects to report an increased impairment charge because of
Irish loan losses. AstraZeneca Plc slid the most in two years
after Britain’s second-biggest pharmaceutical company failed to
get U.S. approval for a blood thinning drug. Autonomy Corp.
gained 5.3 percent following takeover speculation and a better-
than-estimated earnings forecast at Oracle Corp.  The  FTSE 100 Index  fell 0.2 percent to 5,871.75 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, trimming this week’s advance to 1 percent.
The gauge has risen for three straight weeks as China refrained
from raising interest rates and economic data bolstered
confidence in the U.S. recovery. The  FTSE All-Share Index  was
little changed, while Ireland’s  ISEQ Index  slid 0.5 percent.  “We are getting to the stage now that euro-zone debt fears
could keep a leash on any potential gains to be made next
year,” said  Joshua Raymond , a market strategist at City Index
in London. “Being triple witching day, where options and
futures contracts expire, and just over a week away from
Christmas day, it seems that traders are in the process for
wrapping things up for an expected leave of absence from the
market.”  EU Agreement  European Union leaders agreed to amend the bloc’s treaties
to create a permanent debt-crisis mechanism in 2013 as they
struggled to bridge divisions over immediate steps to stabilize
bond markets. The mechanism fails to solve the current
sovereign-debt crisis, according to economists including  Carsten Brzeski  at ING Group NV in Brussels.  Lloyds retreated 3.6 percent to 66.5 pence after saying it
expects to report an increased impairment charge of 4.3 billion
pounds ($6.7 billion) because of Irish loan losses. An
additional 10 percent of its 26.7 billion pounds of loans in the
republic will likely be classified as impaired before the fiscal
year-end, Lloyds said.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , which today sold about
3.9 billion pounds of project finance assets to Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., declined 5.7 percent to 37.82 pence.
Barclays Plc slid 1.4 percent to 259.75 pence.  Financial Stability  The Bank of England said U.K. financial stability remains
vulnerable to Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis even after banks
rebuilt capital and the strength of the system improved.  British institutions also face risks from a sudden increase
in bond yields, higher interest rates, and overheating in
emerging markets, the central bank said in its Financial
Stability Report published today.  Bank of Ireland Plc dropped 14 percent to 31.85 euro cents
and Allied Irish Banks Plc lost 1.1 percent to 45 cents.  Moody’s Investors Service, which today downgraded Ireland’s
credit rating to Baa1 from Aa2, said the banks may need to use
10 billion euros ($13.3 billion) out of a 25 billion-euro
contingency capital fund as part of an international bailout.  AstraZeneca tumbled 6.7 percent to 2,941 pence, the biggest
drop since November 2008, after the drugmaker failed to win U.S.
approval for Brilinta, its rival to Plavix, the world’s second-
best selling drug.  The Food and Drug Administration asked for additional
analysis of a study called Plato comparing Brilinta with Plavix
in patients with severe chest pain or earlier heart attacks.  Autonomy Advances  Autonomy , Britain’s second-largest software company, jumped
5.3 percent to 1,543 pence. The Daily Mail yesterday reported
that the software maker could be the subject of a bidding war
between Microsoft Corp. and Oracle in January. The newspaper did
not cite anyone.  Autonomy is gaining “on press speculation that it may be a
bid target for Microsoft or Oracle,” said Ben Critchley, a
sales trader at IG Index in London.  Separately, Oracle, the world’s second-largest software
maker, and Research In Motion Ltd., maker of the BlackBerry
smartphone, forecast profit that topped analysts’ projections.  Panmure Gordon & Co. raised its price estimate for  Autonomy 
shares to 1,726 pence and reiterated its buy recommendation,
saying earnings guidance from Oracle, RIM and Accenture Plc
point to a “strengthening of the corporate B2B IT market.”  Punch Taverns Plc  surged 12 percent to 74.45 pence. The
U.K. operator of more than 6,700 pubs said it’s likely to meet
its full-year forecast after sales rose in its managed-pubs
division.  ITE Group Plc, the London-based international events
organizer, rallied 12 percent to 244.1 pence after saying it
bought International Exhibition Company CJSC for 33 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Jones  in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 