-- Garuda Looks Ahead to IPO as Debt Restructuring Ends, CEO Says
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2010-12-17T17:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/garuda-looks-ahead-to-ipo-as-debt-restructuring-ends-ceo-says.html
PT Garuda Indonesia, the flagship
carrier once banned in  Europe , signed a final debt agreement
with its creditors on the continent, paving the way for a share
sale of up to $400 million that has taken 13 years to complete.  European  export credit agencies  including Compagnie
Française d’Assurance pour le Commerce Extérieur and  Germany ’s
Euler Hermes, owed about $288 million in unpaid loans, agreed to
extend maturities to mid-2016 and be repaid in installments of
between $45 million to $60 million a year, according to Chief
Executive Officer Emirsyah Satar.  The agreement allows Jakarta-based Garuda to raise money
via an initial public offering next year to pay for new planes,
fly to more destinations and improve maintenance standards. The
end of the five-year debt restructuring exercise also opens the
door to cheaper loans from domestic banks, allowing growth in a
region that overtook  North America  last year as the world’s
 biggest aviation market , according to the  International Air
Transport Association .  “If by early February everything goes smoothly and we’re
listed, I’ll be one of the happiest people,” Satar said in a
phone interview from Singapore en route to yesterday’s signing
in London. “When we started this restructuring process in 2005
the outstanding debt was about $866 million, today it’s down to
$477 million.”  Plans to list the airline were first discussed in 1998, the
year Satar, an accountant by training,  joined Garuda  in its
finance division. The share sale may raise $300 million to $400
million and see about 30 percent of the company sold to the
public. PT Mandiri Sekuritas, PT Danareksa Sekuritas and PT
Bahana Securities will help arrange the sale while Citigroup
Inc. and UBS AG have been hired as international sales agents,
Satar said.  Garuda’s Legacy  “It’s important we IPO because of Garuda’s legacy,”
Satar, 51, said. “Come February, we’ll be transparent and we’ll
have the systems in place to grow sustainably.”  Satar, appointed chief executive in March 2005, was tasked
with turning around a carrier that had 811.3 billion rupiah ($90
million) of losses in 2004 and sought a 1 trillion rupiah
bailout from the Indonesian government in 2006 to help keep its
planes in the air.  The airline, which is  Indonesia ’s biggest carrier, resumed
services to Europe in June after the European Union ended a ban
on carriers from the Southeast Asian nation imposed after fatal
accidents including a Mandala Airlines crash in September 2005
which killed 149 people, and an Adam Air crash in January 2007
which caused 102 fatalities, according to the  Aviation Safety
Network  website.  Garuda, which began flying in 1949 and is named after a
mythical bird that carries the Hindu god Vishnu, last suffered a
fatal accident in March 2007 when a plane crashed on landing in
Yogyakarta, in central Java, killing 21.  Debt Talks  Debt restructuring talks have been taking place since 2005.
In October last year, the carrier restructured $76 million of
debt owed to PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state oil and gas
company. In December 2009 it agreed with PT Bank Mandiri to
convert 967 billion rupiah of debt into a 10.61 percent equity
stake. In January, the airline won bondholder permission to
restructure $122 million of floating-rate notes.  The agreement in  London  and subsequent share sale will make
it easier for the company to fly to new destinations such as  India , and add routes in Europe, according to Satar. The carrier
flies to 19  international destinations  and 31 domestic
destinations according to its website, and expects to expand to
have about 120 planes by 2014, from 84 currently.  “We’ve targeted London, Frankfurt, Paris and  Rome  but
Europe is a little slack at the moment and the growth is not
there,” Satar said. Traffic on the airline’s one existing route
to Europe -- Amsterdam -- is “quite stable” because of the
historical ties between the Netherlands and Indonesia, he said.  Satar forecast 15 percent growth in revenue, net income and
passenger numbers for 2010 when announcing the carrier’s 2009
annual results in March. He declined to provide 2011 forecasts
ahead of the planned share sale.  Investing in Growth  While revenue and passenger numbers grew in line with
expectations, profit will not increase as much as expected this
year because of investment in growth, Satar said.  “This year we’ve invested in new aircraft and new routes
and when you expand, you don’t immediately produce the bottom
line. We did that deliberately because if you don’t invest, in
coming years there’s not the capacity to expand.”  Garuda ordered six Airbus SAS A330s in July, worth $1.15
billion at list prices, and has firm orders for 10 Boeing Co.
777 twin-aisle aircraft and 25 Boeing single-aisle 737s,
Pujobroto, the airline’s spokesman, said on Aug. 4. It also has
options on another 25 of the single-aisle planes, Pujobroto
said.  The carrier was voted the world’s most improved airline in
a survey of more than 17.9 million travelers by London-based
airline reviewer  Skytrax .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  