-- GDP Warrants Beating Bonds on Fastest Growth Since 2005: Argentina Credit
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2010-12-17T13:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/gdp-warrants-beating-bonds-on-fastest-growth-since-2005-argentina-credit.html
Argentine securities linked to gross
domestic product are outperforming the country’s dollar bonds by
the most in two months as the economy grows at the fastest pace
since 2005.  The dollar-denominated warrants gained 4.8 percent in the
past month, the sixth consecutive monthly gain. The country’s
dollar  bonds rose  0.3 percent over that period, according to
JPMorgan indexes. Emerging markets  bonds  have fallen 2.7 percent
in the month through yesterday, JPMorgan data show.  The price of the warrants, created as an incentive for
investors to participate in the 2005 debt restructuring, has
more than doubled this year as the central bank says growth will
reach 9 percent. Third-quarter GDP expanded 8.3 percent from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There’s no other security that gives investors such a
return,” said  Noelia Lucini , a portfolio manager with Capital
Markets Argentina, which says it’s the country’s top broker by
volume.  Argentina’s economy surged this year following a record 55-
million metric ton soybean harvest and booming auto production
and exports, the central bank said. Growth will slow to 4.3
percent next year, the government estimated in its 2011 budget.
Vehicle sales rose 68 percent in November from a year earlier,
the country’s auto manufacturing association said Dec. 3.  The national statistics agency is scheduled to release its
third-quarter GDP report and the November industrial production
report at 2 p.m. New York time.  2005 Restructuring  Then-President  Nestor Kirchner ’s government issued the
dollar and peso warrants as an incentive to get investors to
participate in a 2005 debt restructuring following the country’s
default on $95 billion in debt in 2001. The securities pay
investors in December the year after economic growth exceeds
annual targets that range between 3 and 3.3 percent and the
inflation-adjusted value of the country’s GDP is above the
government’s base-case scenario laid out in the prospectus.  Argentina’s dollar warrants will pay investors 4.37 cents
in December 2011, delivering a 32 percent one-year return on
yesterday’s price of 13.7 cents, according to  Alberto Bernal ,
head of fixed-income research at Bulltick, a Miami-based
brokerage that focuses on Latin America. His target price for
the securities is 18 cents on a forecast that the economy will
expand 6 percent next year.  ‘Amazing’ Warrants  “They just look amazing,” Bernal said. “As long as the
world economy continues to perform well, the future cash flow of
these things looks very aggressive. There is nothing in the
market that you can find that will give you this kind of
yield.”  Peso warrants, which have gained 10 percent over the past
month, will pay investors 6 centavos next year, said Lucini,
whose 12-month price target on the securities is 17 pesos. They
traded at 13.8 pesos yesterday.  Neither warrant is making a payment to investors this year
after last year’s growth of 0.9 percent, the economy’s worst
performance since 2002.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the government’s
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose 7 basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 522 at 8:52 a.m. New York time,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of insuring Argentine bonds against default for
five years fell 7 basis points to 647 yesterday, according to
CMA DataVision. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to comply with debt
agreements.  The peso was little changed today at 3.9760 per dollar.
Dollar warrants slid 0.08 cent to 13.58 cents, while peso
warrants were unchanged at 13.8 centavos.  Volatile Investment  The securities’ links to growth make them a more volatile
investment than bonds, said  Fausto Spotorno , an economist at
research company  Orlando Ferreres  y Asociados in Buenos Aires.
Spotorno estimates the economy will grow 3 percent next year,
below the 3.26 percent target needed to trigger a warrant
payment in December 2012.  “Growth is reaching a plateau due to a lack of investment
in energy, while industries are operating near full capacity,”
Spotorno said in a phone interview. “It’s not clear that the
country will expand more than 3 percent next year, so it’s risky
to hold these warrants.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eliana Raszewski  in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  