-- GE Hudson Cleanup Must Release Fewer Toxins, EPA Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-12-17T19:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ge-cleanup-of-new-york-s-hudson-river-must-release-fewer-toxins-epa-says.html
General Electric Co . must resume
dredging New York’s upper Hudson River for contaminants under a
plan that aims to release fewer toxic-laden sediments into the
water, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said.  Rules released today for the second phase of the cleanup
require GE to be more efficient in the way it dredges the river
bottom and to increase the amount of toxins removed, the agency
said in a statement. GE said it would review the EPA’s decision.  “EPA provided GE with detailed technical requirements for
what we except them to do,”  Judith Enck , EPA administrator in
the region that includes New York, said on a conference call
with reporters. “What we’re announcing is going to strengthen
the cleanup project and move us closer to a cleaner and restored
Hudson River.”  The cleanup, to be carried out during the next five to
seven years, aims to remove 95 percent of PCB’s from a 40-mile
stretch of the river near Albany. Even then, it will be decades
before all advisories on eating fish from the river can be
lifted, Enck said.  The EPA in 2002 released a plan to dredge pollutants,
including PCBs, that GE’s factories in Hudson Falls and Fort
Edward dumped for three decades starting in the 1940’s. In
August 2009, dredging by Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE was
temporarily suspended when tests showed PCB levels were
exceeding EPA standards.  ‘Sound Science’  GE will determine whether the EPA’s plan is “based on
sound science and that it is feasible to achieve” before
starting work, according to a statement. The EPA said GE has
until Jan. 14 to make a decision. Dredging may resume in May.  The company has said it has spent more than $830 million on
the cleanup and research, including more than $560 million on
the first phase of dredging. About 2 million cubic yards of
sediment will be removed, said Joan Gerhardt, a GE spokeswoman.  GE asked to delay the second phase of dredging for one
year, a request the EPA rejected, Enck said. If GE decides
against taking part in the project, EPA will use “all our legal
resources” to compel participation, she said.  “I don’t know what GE is going to do,” Enck said. “I
very much hope that they will opt in.” If not, “we may be in
court, and there’s always the possibility that EPA does the
project and then we get reimbursed for the costs from GE. This
project is going forward either way.”  Improve Sampling  The EPA said GE must improve sampling to get more accurate
information on the extent of contamination. The maker of power-
generation equipment also must dredge deeper in certain areas
and in most cases limit the number of times sections of the
river bottom are disturbed.  Multiple scraping of the bottom in 2009 left areas open for
months, allowing exposed sediments to return to the water, the
EPA said. The EPA also will limit capping, a technique in which
heavy sediments are anchored to the river bottom to hold toxins
in the soil, to 11 percent of the project area.  “Instead of having the multiple dredging passes,” the EPA
is “limiting that in all but the most unusual circumstances to
two,” said Walter Mugdan, regional EPA director for emergency
and remedial response. “That means that the area can be covered
over more quickly.”  “We’re negotiating the particulars and I just don’t want
to give a specific value,” to the cost, GE Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  told reporters after his annual
shareholder meeting with investors on Dec. 14. “It’s always our
intention to complete the dredging project. We just want to do a
dredging project that makes sense and can be executed.”  1.3 Million Pounds  PCB, or polychlorinated biphenyl, is an industrial compound
that resists chemical and biological breakdown, and scientists
consider it a likely human carcinogen. Before being banned in
1977, PCB was commonly used in fluids in transformers and
electrical equipment, as well as an additive in adhesives,
plastic and paint.  The EPA says that GE discharged as much as 1.3 million
pounds of PCBs into the Hudson River from 1947 to 1977.  The company agreed in October 2005 to remove the PCBs from
the river near the state capital even as it challenged in court
the law that allows the EPA to order the cleanup of so-called
Superfund sites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at o
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 