-- GM Promotes Joel Ewanick to Global Marketing Chief as Expansion Considered
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-12-17T14:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/general-motors-names-nissan-s-joel-ewanick-global-chief-marketing-officer.html
General Motors Co.  gave Chief
Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick  oversight of its worldwide
promotions operations as the company considers expanding its
brands into additional international markets.  Ewanick’s new title will be global chief marketing officer,
Detroit-based GM said today in a statement. Former Chief
Executive Officer  Ed Whitacre  hired Ewanick, 50, from  Nissan
Motor Co.  in May as vice president of U.S. marketing.  Chief Executive Officer  Dan Akerson , who took over in
September, wants GM to increase its marketing efforts and seek
growth opportunities, Ewanick said today in an interview.
Ewanick said one of his top priorities will be finding new
 markets  for GM’s Buick, Cadillac and GMC brands, which get most
of their sales in the U.S., and for Chevrolet.  “We’re looking to aggressively expand with all four brands
wherever they can go,” Ewanick said. “There is no reason the
Buick LaCrosse can’t sell in other markets. I have a fair amount
of experience with European brands. The Cadillac CTS would sell
well in Europe.”  Ewanick said expanding into other markets will take time
because GM needs to develop distribution channels and brand
awareness. He also is looking at ways to use marketing in
multiple markets to get economies of scale.  Aside from Nissan, Ewanick also previously worked in
marketing for  Hyundai Motor Co.  and Porsche Cars North America.  GM fell 2 cents to $33.59 at 9:33 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite  trading . Though yesterday, the shares had
gained 1.8 percent from their $33 sale price in an initial
public offering in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 