-- German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Rises to Record on Domestic Demand
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2010-12-17T10:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-rises-to-record-on-domestic-demand.html
German  business confidence 
unexpectedly rose to a record in December as stronger domestic
demand helped bolster the recovery in Europe’s largest economy.  The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its  business climate
index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 109.9
from 109.3 in November. That’s the highest since records for a
reunified Germany began in 1991. Economists predicted a drop to
109, the median of 36 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey 
shows.  Germany’s economy is fueling the euro region’s recovery as
declining unemployment encourages consumer demand and companies
boost investment, helping counter weaker exports. German
investor confidence also improved in December. While countries
from Ireland to Spain are struggling to restore growth and lower
budget deficits, the Bundesbank on Dec. 3 forecast German
economic growth at a record pace this year.  “The German economy is entering the New Year at full
throttle as it is taking the next stage toward a self-sustained
recovery,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at  ING Groep
NV  in Brussels. “Industrial production and exports will remain
an important growth driver next year, while at the same time
private consumption will pick-up further.”  The euro was little changed after the release, trading at
$1.3354 at 11:03 a.m. in Frankfurt, up from $1.3244 yesterday.
The single currency has depreciated 6.8 percent against the
dollar this year, making exports more competitive abroad.  Improving Confidence  Ifo’s gauge of executives’  expectations  rose to 106.9 from
106.3. An indicator of the  current situation  jumped to 112.9
from 112.3. That’s the highest since April 2007.  “Consumption is picking up and that’s a good sign,” said
Gernot Nerb, an economist at the Ifo institute. “Germany is
benefiting from the relatively weak euro.”  Germany’s benchmark  DAX stock index  has gained about 18
percent this year, making it the best performer among major
European equity markets. Investor confidence improved for a
second month in December, the ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said on Dec. 14.  While weaker exports were among the main reasons behind a
slowdown in the third quarter, consumer demand may help bolster
an expansion in 2011, the Bundesbank said on Dec. 13. The
economy will probably grow 3.6 percent this year, the fastest
pace since data for a reunified Germany was first compiled in
1992, before cooling to 2 percent in 2011, it forecast.  Economic Expansion  By comparison, the European Commission last month forecast
the 16-member euro region to expand 1.7 percent this year and
1.5 percent in 2011 as governments step up austerity measures.  In Germany,  unemployment  fell for a 17th straight month in
November, keeping the jobless rate at 7.5 percent. That’s the
lowest since April 1992. Manufacturing growth accelerated in
December and industrial output increased in October.  A consumer sentiment index published by GfK AG rose to its
highest level in three years, the Nuremberg-based market-
research firm said on Nov. 23.  Axel Strotbek, chief financial officer of Volkswagen AG’s
Audi luxury-car division, said on Dec. 14 that orders for the
new A1 compact are “higher than expected.” Peter Bauer, chief
executive officer at Infineon Technologies AG, Europe’s second-
largest chipmaker, said last week the sales target for the
current fiscal year may be “conservative.”  ‘Good News’  “The impulses from exports are getting at least somewhat
weaker, whereas consumer spending and, very likely, investment
activity are taking over,” said  Andreas Rees , an economist at
UniCredit in Munich. “This is good news for Germany and the
rest of Europe.”  German companies may struggle to maintain their sales
growth as governments from Spain to France lower budget deficits
by cutting spending, undermining the region’s recovery. German
factory orders from euro-area countries dropped 0.9 percent in
October from the previous month.  European leaders late yesterday agreed to create a
permanent crisis-management mechanism in 2013 in an effort to
restore investor confidence after Ireland last month became the
second euro-region country to ask for external aid.  “The euro crisis would become something of a burden for
the German economy if every two months another country had to be
rescued,” said Fabienne Riefer, an economist at Deutsche
Postbank in Bonn, Germany. “It would also affect the mood of
the public and eventually the real economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey Black  in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
 Jana Randow  in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  