-- Google's TV Bid Meets Reality as CBS, Fox Bar Shows
-- B y   S a r a h   R a b i l   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2010-12-17T21:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/google-drive-for-tv-dominance-meets-reality-as-cbs-fox-block-top-programs.html
Google Inc.’s drive to bring the
Internet to living-room TVs and generate fresh advertising sales
is being threatened by the failure to obtain popular shows such
as “Glee” and “NCIS.”  CBS Corp.  Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  and  Chase Carey , the No. 2 executive at Fox parent  News Corp. , say after
months of talks they’re in no hurry to let Google TV offer shows
via the Web for free. They say there have been no lucrative
offers and they aren’t sure of the search company’s intentions.  The  four major networks  are blocking Google TV viewers from
watching shows that consumers readily see on the Web with PCs
out of fear they’ll lose ads, re-run revenue and fees from pay-
TV systems. The standoff complicates efforts by Mountain View,
California-based Google to gain a foothold in traditional TV,
where global ad sales of $180 billion this year will be triple
those of the Web, according to ZenithOptimedia Group Ltd.  “The mother lode is network advertising and syndication,”
Moonves said in an interview at a conference in New York. “Do I
want to jeopardize that -- yet -- for a couple of bucks?”  Google aims to create the dominant search tool for TV
viewers, with software providing links to TV listings, movies,
online video services, music and photos, and traditional
browsing with search ads.  Sony Corp.  began selling TVs starting
at $600 and $400 Blu-ray players equipped with Google TV in
October.  Logitech International SA  offers a $300 set-top box
with Google TV as the main interface.  No Shows  The owner of the world’s most popular search engine is
trying to stake that claim without being able to offer shows
available at CBS’s  TV.com , the networks’ own Web pages and  Hulu ,
the site owned by General Electric Co.’s NBC, News Corp. and ABC
parent  Walt Disney Co.   One sticking point is ads, which accounted for 63 percent
of the $13 billion in  revenue  last year at New York-based CBS.  Prime-time shows seen over the Internet have about four
minutes of ads per hour, compared with 16 minutes on broadcast.
That suggests networks lose about 75 percent of sales per viewer
when programs are seen on the Web instead of TV, said  Laura Martin , a Los Angeles-based analyst for Needham & Co.  Media companies will find Google doesn’t want to undermine
their business, said  Rishi Chandra , who oversees the product for
Google. The service uses the Internet to supplement TV, and the
company is focused on making it easier to use -- following
criticism by reviewers -- not advertising.  No ‘Magical Solution’  “It’s going to take time,” Chandra said in an interview.
“I don’t think there’s any magical solution that’s going to
happen right away. Our job from a platform basis is to make sure
that we support all the different business models that they want
to support.”  The networks say Google hasn’t presented a plan to close
the ad-sales gap or fully explained its business. They are
mindful of losses the music and newspaper industries sustained
online. They can avoid that fate if they refuse to give products
away or sell them too cheaply, according to analyst Martin.  “We need to understand better what they’re going to do,”
Carey, chief operating officer at New York-based  News Corp. ,
said in an interview.  Carey wouldn’t say if News Corp. is seeking upfront
payments for its programs. To get support, Google needs to
explain how ad sales will be shared and what steps will be taken
to block pirated content, he said.  Google fell 91 cents to $590.80 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares have declined 4.7
percent this year.  Niche Product?  The high cost of producing network TV shows makes it tough
to satisfy the media companies even with highly targeted ads
that may sell at higher prices, said Lance Koenders, director of
marketing for digital home at  Intel Corp. , which makes the chips
for Google TV devices.  “I don’t know that you ever get to the point where
advertising can pay all of the bills,” Koenders said. “I don’t
think by any stretch are we done with this product.”  Google TV may not get far without current fare from the
networks, said  Michael Morris , a Richmond, Virginia-based
analyst with Davenport & Co.  “The difference between having high-quality content and
not having it is the difference between having a mass-adopted
product and having a niche product,” Morris said.  With companies like Google,  Apple Inc.  and  Netflix Inc. 
vying for popular shows and movies, the networks and Hollywood
studios are reaching agreements to pipe more of their products
to TVs through the Internet.  Time Warner Strategy  Disney, based in Burbank, California, agreed last week to
supply some cable and broadcast programs to Los Gatos,
California-based Netflix, the online and DVD subscription
service. The terms weren’t disclosed.  “Hollywood owns the content and they won’t change their
business model just to accommodate one company,” said  Anthony DiClemente , an analyst at Barclays Capital in New York. “At
some point Google will have to decide whether it wants to be in
the television business.”  Time Warner Inc. ’s HBO premium channel, which is commercial
free, and the TNT and TBS cable networks, which rely less on
advertising than broadcasters, let customers who already have
pay-TV subscriptions use Google TV to watch their shows.  Moonves said CBS isn’t in formal negotiations with Google,
which isn’t offering to pay for shows. His executives regularly
talk to companies including Google, Netflix and Hulu, and he’s
content to see how Google TV evolves without CBS shows.  “The trains are not leaving the station,” Moonves said.
“‘Uh-oh, if you don’t join fill in the blank -- Apple TV,
Google TV, Netflix -- today, it’s not going to be there
tomorrow.’ Yes, it is. They’re going to want our stuff.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
 Sarah Rabil  in New York at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 