-- Google Faces German Complaints in EU Antitrust Probe
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-17T14:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/google-faces-two-german-publishers-complaints-in-european-antitrust-probe.html
Google Inc.  faces European Union
antitrust complaints from publishers and a map provider who
say the search engine discriminates against their sites,
regulators said.  The European Commission took over part of a complaint
initially filed with the German antitrust agency in January
after it opened its own probe, said  Jonathan Todd , a spokesman
for the European Commission. The EU and national regulators
don’t usually investigate the same issues in parallel, he said
in a telephone interview today.  The EU is examining whether Google, the world’s biggest
Internet search provider, discriminated against competing
services in its search results and stopped some websites from
accepting rival ads. The complaints in that case were filed by a
 Microsoft Corp.  Internet unit and other rivals.  Google will “continue to work cooperatively with the
commission and national regulators explaining many aspects of
our business,” Al Verney, a spokesman for the Mountain View,
California-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.
“There’s always going to be room for improvement so we are
working to address any concerns,” he said.  Google’s search engine consistently “lists websites of
publishers lower than its own products” such as YouTube and
Google News, said Eckhard Bremer, a Berlin-based lawyer at Hogan
Lovells LLP who represents the German newspaper and magazine
publishers’ associations BDZV and VDZ. The search engine’s
rankings are not neutral and publishers have no real alternative
for displaying their content because most users make search
queries on Google, he said in a telephone interview.  German Searches  Germany is Europe’s biggest market for Internet searches
with at least 54 million people making queries in August,
according to Reston, Virginia-based ComScore Inc. Google
attracted 92.2 percent of German search-engine visitors in
November, said AT Internet.  German antitrust officials haven’t decided whether to open
an investigation into the publishers’ demand for compensation
when Google displays portions of their material,  Kay Weidner , a
spokesman for the Bonn-based Federal Cartel Office, said in an
interview today.  It’s “only natural” for German regulators to hand over
the search part of the case to the EU because “it doesn’t make
sense that two agencies look into the same algorithm issues,”
he said.  Mapping Service  Hans Biermann, chief executive of online mapping service
Euro-Cities AG, said the EU will review its allegation that
Google’s searches are unfair because Google Maps is always
ranked higher.  Regulators are also looking at complaints from U.K.
shopping search site  Foundem , which says that Google promotes
its product search above rivals, and  Ejustice.fr , a French legal
search engine, which says Google repeatedly removed its site
from search results.  Google is drawing increasing scrutiny from regulators over
its market power, and other rivals filed an antitrust complaint
in Europe earlier this year. There also has been criticism from
French, German and U.K. data protection regulators over Google’s
Street View service, which shows pictures of streets and homes.  Antitrust regulators have the power to impose fines of as
much as 10 percent of revenue for monopoly abuses. The EU’s
highest-ever penalty, 1.06 billion euros ($1.4 billion), was
levied against  Intel Corp.  last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Karin Matussek  in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net 
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 