-- Greenspan Says U.S. Economy May Grow 3.5% in 2011
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2010-12-17T19:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/greenspan-says-u-s-economy-picking-up-may-grow-as-much-as-3-5-next-year.html
The U.S. economy is picking up speed
and may grow by 3 percent to 3.5 percent next year, former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said.  “The U.S. economy unquestionably has some momentum,” he
said in an interview late yesterday in Washington. “The fourth
quarter looks good. The growth rate could be 3.5 percent or
more” for the final quarter of this year.  The economy grew at annualized pace of 2.5 percent in the
third quarter. A spate of recent statistics -- from rising
retail sales to falling unemployment claims -- suggest it is
gaining ground.  Mohamed El-Erian , chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said last week that the Newport
Beach, California-based firm sees the economy expanding 3
percent to 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 from the
same period of this year. Greenspan called that forecast
“reasonable.”  The pick-up in the economy should lead to stepped-up hiring
as productivity growth tops out, he said. Employers in November
added 39,000 workers to their payrolls, and the jobless rate
jumped to a seven-month high of 9.8 percent.  “The unemployment rate should start coming down next
year,” Greenspan, 84, said. “The most you can expect is that
it will get down to 9 percent, or the high eights, by the end of
the year.”  Stock Outlook  Greenspan, who now heads his own consulting firm, Greenspan
Associates, sees stock prices climbing further as the growing
economy boosts companies’ sales and earnings.  “We are seeing a topping out of profit margins,” he said.
“Fortunately, revenues are beginning to rise. That will
increase profits. As earnings rise, and because equity premiums
are so high, stock prices should move higher.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has risen almost 12 percent
this year as corporate earnings exceeded estimates, economic
data improved and the Fed purchased Treasuries to boost growth.
The benchmark gauge for American equities closed at 1,242.87
yesterday. It will rise to 1,379 in 2011, according to the
average of 11 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News this month.  Greenspan warned that U.S. policy makers need to put the
government’s finances in order or face the risk of a
debilitating rise in long-term interest rates.  Danger of Crisis  “A bond market crisis is likely unless we do something
about the budget deficit,” said Greenspan, who served as Fed
chairman from Aug. 11, 1987 to Jan. 31, 2006.  He recalled what happened in 1979, when bond  yields  rose
400 basis points in five months on concerns inflation would
rise. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. “It happened with
very little notice and it was very scary,” the former Fed
chairman said.  The federal government recorded a $1.29 trillion budget
 deficit  in the 2010 fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30. Congress
this week passed an $858 billion bill extending for two years
all Bush-era tax cuts without requiring that the costs of the
legislation be paid for with offsetting savings.  Treasury 10-year notes were poised today for their third
weekly drop, the longest stretch of declines since September, as
evidence the U.S. economy is recovering reduced demand for the
safety of government debt.  “There’s a whole series of very positive and very negative
forces in play,” Greenspan said. “For the short-run, there’s
momentum on the upside” for the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rich Miller  in
Washington   rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  