-- Grieving Kidman’s Mom Serves Coffee Cake; Nicholson Flops: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/grieving-kidman-s-mother-serves-coffee-cake-sleepy-nicholson-rick-warner.html
The film version of “ Rabbit Hole ,”
 David Lindsay-Abaire ’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play about a
suburban couple coping with the death of their 4-year-old son,
proves that a depressing subject needn’t be humorless.  Sprinkled throughout this deeply affecting drama are sharp
comic moments that provide some relief -- for the parental
characters, Becca ( Nicole Kidman ) and Howie ( Aaron Eckhart ), and
the audience. Howie shocks members of their therapy group by
calling God “a sadistic prick,” and Becca’s oblivious mom
( Dianne Wiest ) tries to comfort her daughter with a big slice of
coffee cake.  The tragedy pulls the couple apart. Eight months after his
son’s death, Howie keeps his memory alive by watching videos of
the boy on his mobile phone. Becca tries to erase the past by
selling their house and giving away her son’s clothes and the
family dog.  They even seek solace with different people: Howie with
another grieving parent (Sandra Oh) who shares a joint with him
in her car and Becca with the comic-book drawing teenager (Miles
Teller) whose car accidentally struck and killed their son when
he chased his dog into the street.  “The Rabbit Hole” is a radical departure from director
 John Cameron Mitchell ’s avant-garde films “Shortbus” and
“Hedwig and the Angry Inch.” But he handles the sensitive
material with grace and gets heartfelt performances from Kidman
and Eckhart.  Kidman, also one of the film’s producers, powerfully
conveys her character’s emotional shutdown with little dialogue
or showy action. Eckhart, in a more demonstrative role, is just
as effective as a husband desperately trying to thaw his wife’s
icy facade.  The film offers no easy answers or startling
transformations. It’s just a simple story about two people doing
their best to survive.  “Rabbit Hole,” from Lions Gate, is playing in New York
and Los Angeles. Rating: ***1/2  ‘How Do You Know’  “How do you know when you’re in love?” baseball star
Matty asks his teammates in  James L. Brooks ’s new romantic
comedy.  I have a better question: How can an Oscar- and Emmy-
winning writer/director make a movie as horrible as “How Do You
Know”?  His film about a former softball standout ( Reese Witherspoon ) torn between a narcissistic big-league pitcher
( Owen Wilson ) and a beleaguered businessman ( Paul Rudd ) is a
tedious hodgepodge of romcom cliches. The script, direction and
acting are all second-rate, with the exception of the semi-
charming Witherspoon. Brooks even manages to make photogenic
Washington, D.C., look lackluster.  Nicholson Sleepwalks  Most embarrassing is  Jack Nicholson ’s sleepwalking
performance as Rudd’s crooked father. Jack looks like he’d
rather be sitting courtside at a Lakers game.  Nicholson and Brooks previously teamed on multiple-Oscar
winners “Terms of Endearment” and “As Good as It Gets.” The
only award this movie deserves is a Razzie, which recognizes the
worst Hollywood has to offer.  “How Do You Know,” from Columbia Pictures, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 