-- IMF Approves $3.3 Billion for Greece Amid `Impressive' Fiscal Adjustment
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-17T23:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/imf-approves-3-3-billion-for-greece-amid-impressive-fiscal-adjustment.html
The  International Monetary Fund  said
Greece’s rescue program has “continued to perform well” and it
approved payment of another 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion),
according to a statement released in Washington today.  The fund said the Greek authorities are “to be commended”
for their efforts to implement budget cuts, new economic
policies and other reforms. Inflation is falling and the Greek
economy is becoming more competitive, the IMF said.  “The overall fiscal adjustment to date has been
impressive,” the IMF said. “It is important that fiscal
structural reforms be forcefully advanced to ensure a lasting
consolidation.”  More reforms are needed to boost potential growth, the IMF
said. Greece needs to make additional changes to create new
jobs, improve access to professions, and deregulate  tourism  and
retail trade, according to the IMF.  “Market sentiment toward Greece remains volatile,” the
IMF said. “The economy is still adjusting and unemployment is
rising.”  Today’s announcement brings disbursements so far under
Greece’s standby arrangement to about 10.6 billion euros, part
of a 110-billion euro rescue package that the IMF and European
Union announced in May. The IMF’s share is about 30 billion
euros.  Economy Struggling  Greece’s economy has been struggling under the crisis, the
fund said. Economic indicators point toward “continued”
contraction, the IMF said in a staff report accompanying today’s
announcement.  “The GDP contraction has been slightly deeper than
initially expected,” the IMF said. “Bond spreads remain high
owing to another round of Greek fiscal data revisions and
financial turmoil in the Euro area periphery.”  The Greek economy is now expected to shrink 4.25 percent in
2010 and 3 percent in 2011, compared with previous forecasts of
4 percent and 2.5 percent respectively, the fund said.  “Short-term risks to the outlook remain skewed to the
downside, but there is upside potential in the medium-term,”
the IMF said. “The macroeconomic outlook has weakened
slightly.”  The IMF said it was working with EU officials to move
Greece’s aid to the fund’s “extended fund facility,” which has
longer repayment terms than the “stand-by arrangement” used to
fund the current rescue package.  The IMF said Greece’s budget measures have reduced the
deficit by an estimated 6 percent of gross domestic product in
2010. Banks have “enjoyed some recent success” in raising
capital and Greece has “necessary tools” to act as a backstop
if necessary.  The next review of Greece’s economic program will be in
March, the IMF said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  