-- Indonesia Stocks to Rise as Inflation Risk is Overstated, Panin Fund Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2010-12-17T07:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/indonesia-stocks-to-rise-as-inflation-risk-is-overstated-panin-fund-says.html
Indonesia’s  stocks  will extend the
biggest rally among major Asian markets this year, spurred by
consumer companies, as concerns about inflation are overstated,
according to PT Panin Sekuritas.  Investors should buy  PT Gudang Garam  and  PT Indofood Sukses
Makmur  as consumption growth will likely hold up, boosting
demand for cigarettes and food products, David Sondakh, a
Jakarta-based analyst at Panin, the nation’s best performing
fund, said in an interview today.  “Our view is that the government can tame inflation,”
said Sondakh, who helps manage about $442 million at Panin.
“Once that is apparent to investors they will start buying
consumer stocks again.”  The  Jakarta Composite index  plunged 2.4 percent yesterday,
the most this month, extending losses to 5.7 percent over a
five-day slide. The benchmark index, which rose to record
3,786.10 in Dec. 9, has fallen amid concern a debt crisis in
Europe will prompt investors to cut assets in high-yielding
markets and that this year’s rally was excessive relative to the
earnings outlook. The index has risen 42 percent in 2010, the
best performer among Asia’s 10 biggest markets, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation should be manageable in 2011 as this year’s gains
in commodity prices were mostly driven by bad weather conditions,
said Sondakh, whose Panin Dana Maksima fund returned an
annualized 45 percent over the past five years. Inflation next
year won’t be as high as 2010, Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin
Nasution said today.  A La Nina weather event has brought heavier-than-usual
rainfall to parts of Asia this year, deluging farms and mines in
Southeast Asia, driving rubber futures to a 30-year high and
sending tin prices to a record.  On Hold  The central bank has refrained from raising interest rates
even as inflation in November accelerated to 6.33 percent from a
year earlier. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey had forecast
a 5.67 percent gain. November inflation in Thailand was 2.8
percent, 3 percent in the Philippines and 5.1 percent in China.  “Our biggest conviction underweight remains Indonesia,”
UBS AG’s strategists including Niall MacLeod, Thomas Kwan and
 Aakash Rawat  wrote in a Dec. 15 note. “We have been
consistently concerned that inflation is likely to pick up, much
more so than in the rest of the region.”  Indonesian lawmakers approved Dec. 14 a government proposal
to gradually limit the sale of subsidized fuel in 2011. The cuts
would “magnify inflation” Citigroup Inc. economist  Johanna Chua  wrote in a note yesterday. Bank Indonesia may have to
increase interest rates by 25 basis points as early as March and
another 50 basis points for the rest of next year, Chua said.  Recommends Indofood  The central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low at 6.5 percent for 16 months, boosting domestic
consumption, which accounts for about two-thirds of the
Indonesian economy.  Sondakh recommends buying instant-noodle producer Indofood,
saying the stock is undervalued. Indofood is trading at 14.6
times estimated earnings compared with the 17.2 times for the
benchmark index. Noodles are Indonesia’s second staple food
after rice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Berni Moestafa  in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  