-- Lindt, Storck Chocolate Bunnies and Mice Fail to Gain Protection in Europe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2010-12-17T13:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/lindt-storck-chocolate-bunnies-and-mice-fail-to-gain-protection-in-eu.html
Bunnies, mice and reindeer aren’t
protected species when they’re made of chocolate, a European
Union court ruled.  Lindt & Spruengli AG , the world’s largest maker of premium
chocolate, and August Storck KG lost separate court challenges
to get EU trademark protection for their chocolate  Easter 
bunnies, mice and reindeer.  “A rabbit, a reindeer and a small bell are typical shapes
in which chocolate and chocolate goods are presented”
particularly “at Easter and Christmas,” the  European Union
General Court , the region’s second-highest tribunal, ruled
today. The shapes “are devoid of any distinctive character.”  Lindt, based in Kilchberg, Switzerland, has since 2004
failed to get EU-wide trademark protection for the shapes of a
plain chocolate bunny and chocolate bunnies and  reindeer  wrapped
in gold foil with red ribbon around their necks. It also failed
to get protection for the ribbon and attached bell. The EU
trademark agency based in Alicante, Spain,  in 2008 said  the
shapes were too common. The agency also  rejected  Storck’s
trademark bid for the shape of a chocolate mouse.  “This now means Lindt can’t use an EU trademark right to
stop other companies” from making similar chocolate bunnies,
 Olaf Gillert , a partner specializing in trademark law at law
firm Taylor Wessing LLP in Dusseldorf, said in a telephone
interview. “Still, it doesn’t mean that in the future companies
can go ahead and make one-to-one copies.”  Product’s Fame  Lindt has other means to defend its rights, he said. It
could argue it has rights based on the fame of its product or
use national competition rules to enforce product shape, Gillert
said. A question then would be whether consumers really
recognize the golden bunny as being a Lindt product.  Sylvia Kaelin , a spokeswoman for Lindt, declined to
immediately comment, saying she hadn’t yet seen the ruling.
Bernd Roessler, a spokesman for Berlin-based Storck, declined to
immediately comment.  Lindt in 2001 gained a trademark valid across the 27-nation
EU for a chocolate Easter bunny wrapped in gold foil emblazoned
with the word “Lindt” and bearing a red ribbon. In today’s
case Lindt was seeking protection for the same bunny, minus the
name, which would have given it wider rights.  Lindt already used its existing EU trademark to block an
Austrian chocolate maker from selling products similar to its
own  58-year-old  Easter rabbit. This led to a dispute that
resulted in a ruling by the EU’s top court last year that the
trademark can be challenged if the Austrian chocolate maker
proves Lindt registered it in bad faith.  The cases are T-336/08, T-337/08, T-346/08, T-395/08
Chocoladefabriken Lindt & Spruengli v OHMI, and T-13/09, Storck
v OHMI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephanie Bodoni  in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  