-- Danaher Said to Offer 1.44 Billion Euros for Ingenico
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2010-12-17T21:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ingenico-said-to-get-1-9-billion-non-binding-takeover-offer-from-danaher.html
Danaher Corp.  offered to buy
 Ingenico SA , the world’s largest maker of card payment
terminals, for 1.44 billion euros ($1.9 billion), according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Ingenico said in an e-mailed statement today that it
received a 28-euro-per-share non-binding takeover offer, without
identifying the potential buyer. The bid is 41 cents a share
more than the price before trading was suspended today.  Payment software and equipment are attracting increasing
interest from technology and telecommunications companies as
more transactions move from cash to electronic formats. Buying
Ingenico would let Danaher add card readers to a product lineup
that includes  payment stations  at fuel pumps, dental tools and
ultraviolet  disinfection systems  for water plants.  Discussions “may or may not lead to a transaction,” said
Ingenico, based in the Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine.  Matt McGrew , a spokesman for Washington-based Danaher,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment. Rémi Calvet,
an Ingenico spokesman, declined to comment.  Ingenico  rose  as much as 4.24 percent to 27.66 euros in
Paris before trading was halted. Danaher gained 1 cent to $46.80
at 4:12 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange  composite trading .  Ingenico will make a statement on the offer before the
start of trading in Paris on Dec. 20, following a board meeting,
the company said.  Safran SA  is Ingenico’s biggest shareholder,
with a stake of about 22 percent.  Acquisition Capacity  Danaher, which posted $11.2 billion in revenue in 2009, has
about $4 billion available for acquisitions during the next four
to six quarters, Chief Executive Officer  Lawrence Culp  said at a
Dec. 15 investor meeting. Danaher completed 13  acquisitions  this
year.  The company “could conservatively deploy about $2 billion
towards acquisitions in short order utilizing only its
commercial paper resources and existing cash on hand,”  Jon Wood , an analyst at Jefferies & Co., wrote in an investors note
on Dec. 16.  Danaher’s existing card-payment terminal operations are
part of its Gilbarco Veeder-Root unit, which is based in
Greensboro, N.C., and generates about  $650 million  a year in
U.S. sales. Danaher gained the Gilbarco brand when it agreed in
2001 to purchase Marconi Commerce Systems, a supplier of fuel-
dispensing equipment and point-of-sale systems for gas stations.  France Telecom SA , the largest French telecommunications
company, yesterday announced a research effort aimed at
improving technologies for payment using mobile phones. The
global value of goods purchased via mobile devices will be about
$200 billion annually in 2012, according to Juniper Research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
 Jacqueline Simmons  at   jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 