-- Amazon Offers Kindle-Cover Refunds After Complaints
-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2010-12-17T22:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/insider-trade-probe-may-speed-shakeout-among-expert-networks.html
A consolidation among “expert-network”
companies probably will accelerate after the arrest of two
Primary Global Research LLC employees and three of the firm’s
outside consultants in the past three weeks.  The U.S. insider-trading investigation that led to the
arrests will prompt clients to withdraw and heighten pressure on
companies to prevent their experts from leaking nonpublic
information to clients, according to  Michael Mayhew , founder of
Integrity Research Associates LLC in New York, which tracks the
industry. Those that can’t afford or don’t want to make costly
technology and personnel investments to upgrade compliance will
be winnowed out, he said in a telephone interview.  “This next few months could put some firms out of
business,” said Mayhew, who has talked with clients in recent
days who are concerned that the investigation will open them up
to scrutiny. “Business will become more difficult, and there
will be consolidation.”  Last year, Guidepoint Global LLC in New York acquired Vista
Research Inc. from Standard & Poor’s Corp. Fees were being
squeezed even before the government probe, said Mayhew, whose
firm is 20 percent owned by Zurich-based UBS AG, the largest
Swiss bank.  Crackdown Expands  Three managers at technology companies who moonlighted as
experts for Primary Global were arrested Dec. 16 as the U.S.
Attorney in Manhattan expanded a probe that has led to charges
against more than two dozen hedge-fund managers, traders and
corporate executives and 15 guilty pleas. Also charged was an
account manager of the Mountain View, California-based firm,
while a manager at Dell Inc. pleaded guilty to wire fraud and
conspiracy to commit wire fraud and securities fraud.  Expert networks have been under a cloud since the Nov. 24
arrest of  Don Ching Trang Chu , Primary Global’s Asia liaison.  Consultants recruited by Primary Global “speak one-on-one
with PGR clients to provide up-to-the-minute intelligence on
trends, issues, regulations and dynamics affecting a particular
company, product or industry,” according to its  website .  “The service we provide is, you know, whatever you’re
looking for, whether it’s short term or long term, we’ll have
people,”  James Fleishman , the Primary Global sales manager,
told a client, according to a record telephone conversation
cited in the government’s criminal complaint.  Growth Slows  Expert networks, which connect hedge funds and other
investors with current and former corporate managers, doctors
and others, have multiplied from eight to 40 in the past decade.
Their growth has been fueled by the decline of Wall Street
research departments, since disclosure rules and analyst
restrictions have been imposed in the past decade. Major traders
seeking an investing edge have turned to expert networks and
other independent research firms for information.  In a 2009 survey by Integrity Research, 60 percent of 120
hedge-fund managers called expert-network firms “extremely
important” or “very important” to their investment decisions.
The firms charge up to $70,000 for six months’ of unlimited
consultations by clients seeking knowledge of an industry, issue
or company with an expert.  Now, heightened competition is pressuring companies to
lower fees to clients and make expensive investments for systems
to prevent inside-information leaks, said Mayhew. Estimated
industry revenue of $400 million this year is down 8 percent
from the peak in 2008 of $433 million.  Compliance Issues  Smaller firms will be unable to make major compliance
outlays,  Roger Ehrenberg , managing partner of New York venture
firm IA Ventures, said in an interview. The largest expert-
network firm, Gerson Lehrman Group Inc., will consequently
strengthen its leadership position, he said.  Gerson Lehrman accounted for 60 percent of industry revenue
last year, according to Integrity Research. Gerson Lehrman has a
marketing partnership with Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News.  “This will further stratify the business,” said
Ehrenberg, former chief of Deutsche Bank AG’s internal hedge-
fund unit, DB Advisors LLC, a major Gerson Lehrman client. “The
cost of entry has just gone up dramatically.”  Gerson Lehrman has put into place among the industry’s best
systems for preventing the leak of inside information, according
to a 2009 ranking of firms by Integrity Research.  Safeguards  The New York-based company, 20 percent owned by private-
equity firm Silver Lake, requires annual mandatory tutorials and
tests for its experts on where the line is drawn on material
inside information. Its experts who have day jobs at publicly
held companies are limited to three consulting sessions a year
with any one client. Gerson Lehrman screens experts before each
client consultation, by database searches and by phone, to
uncover any conflicts that would disqualify them.  Doug Lichtman , a UCLA law professor and intellectual-
property expert who has done more than 1,900 consultations with
the firm’s clients, according to its website, said he must still
answer the same battery of questions prior to being approved for
another job.  “ ‘Has anything changed? Are you an employee of a publicly
traded company?’ ” Lichtman said he is always asked. “It’s
very repetitive, but it creates a nice buffer.”  Gerson Lehrman has nonetheless drawn legal scrutiny. The
firm was subpoenaed in 2007 by the New York Attorney General’s
office when it was investigating whether expert networks were
inside-information conduits, the  New York Times  reported in
January 2007. No charges have been brought. The firm declined to
comment.  Rogue Consultant  John Cochran , an Atlanta physician and chief executive
officer of Chestatee Pathology Associates, has been a Gerson
Lehrman expert since 1999. The firm was just a year old then,
and Cochran said he was vetted by CEO  Alexander Saint-Amand .
Gerson Lehrman now employs about 250,000 experts.  “We pay 500 to 1,000 experts a day, and about half every
day are new,” Dmitri Mehlhorn, the firm’s global operations
chief, said at an April 2009 conference in New York.  Even the strongest compliance measures can be circumvented
by a rogue consultant in such a large a crowd, according to
Cochran. “You can’t prevent lying,” he said.  Another potential problem is rogue clients, according to
Integrity Research’s Mayhew. He said he has interviewed analysts
and portfolio managers at investment firms who try to circumvent
compliance rules.  Paper Trail  “Gerson Lehrman has its ‘rule of three,’ which keeps
clients from talking with a consultant more than three times a
year,” Mayhew said. “But a consultant may also work for
another expert network without strict compliance rules. The
client just goes through that one.”  Stuart Lewtan , founder and CEO of Zintro Inc., an online
expert network based in Waltham, Massachusetts, said in a phone
interview that compliance systems create a strong paper trail of
the expert-client interface. This is attractive to the vast
majority of clients who want to be on the right side of the law,
he said.  “People who want to cheat will cheat,” said Lewtan, “but
expert networks provide a framework for users to get valuable
information.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Helyar  in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  