-- InterMune Doubles After European Panel Backs Esbriet Respiratory Drug
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2010-12-17T21:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/intermune-doubles-after-european-panel-backs-esbriet-respiratory-drug.html
InterMune Inc.  had a record gain in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading after a European
regulatory committee recommended approval of its medicine
Esbriet to treat a fatal lung disease.  InterMune rose $20.62 to $34.89 at 4 p.m. New York time,
more than doubling in the stock’s biggest increase since the
Brisbane, California-based company first sold shares to the
public in March 2000. The European Commission is expected to
ratify the committee’s decision in two to three months, the
drugmaker said today in a statement.  The drug isn’t approved for sale in the U.S., where
regulators rejected the company’s application in May. The denial
had sent shares down 75 percent. Peak sales in Europe may reach
$1.2 billion, with the drug priced at $21,000 a year per
patient, said  Adam Cutler , an analyst with Canaccord Genuity.  “This will drive significant sales and will enable the
company to be profitable as soon as the end of 2011,” Cutler
wrote today in a research note. Based in New York, Cutler raised
his recommendation on InterMune shares to “buy.”  The lung disease, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, “is among
the most urgent of unmet medical needs in respiratory
medicine,” said Roland du Bois, a professor of respiratory
medicine at the National Heart & Lung Institute at Imperial
College in London and co-chair of the program that tested
InterMune’s medicine, in an InterMune statement today.  More than 100,000 Europeans suffer from the disease, for
which there are no approved therapies in the European Union, du
Bois said.  Appoints Team  InterMune also said today that it appointed a team to
prepare to sell the medicine in Europe, led by  Giacomo Di Nepi ,
who joined the company in November 2009 after roles as chief
executive officer of Osaka, Japan-based Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co.’s European business and global head for the Transplantation
and Infectious Disease unit of Novartis Pharma AG.  The company’s European headquarters will be in Basel,
Switzerland, and it has established subsidiaries in Germany,
Italy and the U.K. InterMune is in the final stages of
establishing subsidiaries in France and Spain, and plans to have
a European workforce of about 125 people by the end of 2012.  In May, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration asked for a
new clinical trial to prove the medicine delays progression of
the disease, snubbing an advisory panel’s recommendation that
the drug be approved.  FDA Status  The company plans to provide an update on the medicine’s
status with the FDA in the first quarter of 2011, spokesman Jim
Goff said in a telephone interview today.  “We continue to evaluate various alternatives,” he said.  Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis  causes an unexplained
scarring and inflammation in the lungs and is usually fatal
within five years. The condition mostly affects people ages 50
to 75, causing air sacs in the lung to be gradually replaced
with scar tissue, according to the National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute’s website. Most patients die of respiratory
failure when the lungs can’t expand to get oxygen into the
bloodstream.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Meg Tirrell  in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 