-- Ireland Rating Lowered Five Levels by Moody's With Threat of More to Come
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2010-12-17T09:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ireland-s-rating-downgraded-by-moody-s-to-baa1-from-aa2-outlook-negative.html
Ireland’s credit rating was cut five
levels by Moody’s Investors Service and further downgrades are
possible as the government struggles to contain losses in the
country’s banking system.  The rating was lowered to Baa1 from Aa2, Moody’s said in an
e-mailed statement from London today. That’s three levels above
non-investment grade and the same level as countries including
Russia and Lithuania. The outlook on the rating is “negative,”
Moody’s said.  Irish lawmakers on Dec. 15 voted to accept an 85 billion-
euro ($113 billion) aid package from European governments and
the International Monetary Fund to stabilize the country’s
finances. Moody’s said that confidence in Irish banks
“evaporated” in the run-up to the bailout.  “While a downgrade had been anticipated, the severity of
the downgrade is surprising,” Glas Securities, the Dublin-based
fixed-income firm, said in an e-mailed note today.  As European governments struggle to stop contagion from
Greece and Ireland to other nations, Moody’s this week said it
may lower Spain from Aa1. It also placed Greece’s Ba1 rating on
review for a possible downgrade. European Union leaders agreed
at a meeting in Brussels yesterday to amend the bloc’s treaties
to create a permanent crisis-management mechanism in 2013.  Bank Costs  While Ireland’s government had said it’s fully funded
through mid-2011, investors dumped the country’s bonds on
concern that the cost of the bank rescue would swamp the state.
Government figures on Nov. 28 showed that Ireland may spend as
much as 83 billion euros, more than half of its gross domestic
product, to support banks including  Allied Irish Banks Plc .  The government plans to cut spending by about 20 percent
and raise taxes over the next four years to narrow its deficit.
The budget shortfall will be 12 percent of GDP this year, or 32
percent including a banking rescue, the government estimates.  “The austerity measures could have feedback effects on
economic growth, on domestic demand, and that’s something that
should be monitored,” Dietmar Hornung, an analyst at Moody’s,
said in an interview. He said it is “very unlikely” that
Ireland will default on its debt.  Irish borrowing costs initially rose after the bailout was
agreed on Nov. 28, before declining. The  extra yield  investors
demand to hold Ireland’s 10-year bonds rather than the German
equivalent, Europe’s benchmark, widened to a euro-era record of
680 basis points on Nov. 30. It was at 533 at 9:09 a.m. in
London, up from 521 yesterday.  “Ireland has managed high levels of indebtness in the past
and has shown political cohesion and commitment to enacting
difficult fiscal consolidation measures,” Hornung said. “The
government is making considerable investments in its banking
system that might ultimately generate income.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Finbarr Flynn  in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  