-- IMF Reduces Ireland's 2011 Economic Growth Forecast to 0.9% on Debt Risks
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-17T17:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ireland-economy-may-grow-0-9-in-2011-as-it-recovers-from-crisis-imf-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund  cut
its forecast for Ireland’s economic growth today in a report
that called for the country to reduce its budget deficit and
overhaul its banking sector to recover from financial crisis.  The Washington-based fund said it expects Ireland’s economy
to grow 0.9 percent in 2011, down from 2.3 percent estimated by
the fund in October. The IMF also forecast 1.9 percent growth in
2012, in a staff report accompanying its agreement to contribute
22.5 billion euros ($30 billion) to an 85 billion-euro rescue
effort with European authorities.  “Even this modest recovery is subject to downside risks,”
the IMF said, predicting that unemployment would stay above 10
percent through 2015. “The large fiscal adjustment will remain
a drag on consumption, as will the unwinding of home-grown
imbalances from the boom years -- leading to weak credit growth,
continued weakness in property prices and wages, and high real
debt burdens.”  Ireland’s financial woes pose “significant” spillover
risks that could affect Greece, Portugal, Spain and other euro-
area economies, the Washington-based fund said. Financial
contagion also could affect banks from countries including the
U.K., Germany, France and the U.S. that have large portfolio
investments in Ireland, the IMF said.  Bond Yield  The yield on Irish 10-year bond rose to 8.59 percent, the
highest since Dec. 2, while credit-default swaps insuring Irish
debt climbed for a third day, their longest run of gains this
month. Ireland’s credit rating was cut five levels by Moody’s
Investors Service earlier today and further downgrades are
possible as the government struggles to contain losses in the
country’s banking system.  European Union leaders grappled this week with how to fix
the current crisis and prevent future debt shocks in Brussels
talks. German officials, driven by public outcry against
propping up fiscally reckless countries, have resisted enlarging
a 750 billion euro emergency fund or developing joint bond
sales.  There are “significant risks” that could affect Ireland’s
ability to pay back the loan, meaning the IMF is taking on
“substantial risk,” according to a Dec. 8 document included in
today’s release says. The IMF’s board approved the rescue funds
yesterday after Ireland’s parliament approved the bailout, and
IMF spokeswoman  Caroline Atkinson  said the fund retained enough
liquidity “to meet any needs” that may arise.  General Election  The IMF said today that Ireland’s upcoming general election
is a risk to the rescue program, along with economic uncertainty
and the “unprecedented” budget cuts needed. The fund said the
main opposition parties have indicated “broad support” for the
rescue program’s objectives of cutting the budget and
stabilizing the banks while also wanting to revisit some of the
specific policies.  Ireland has pledged to shrink its financial sector and
increase banks’ ability to withstand economic stresses as a
condition of receiving aid. Irish banks are slated to undergo
new stress testing in the first half of 2011, starting with the
six biggest banks followed by credit unions and subsidiaries of
foreign banks.  The Irish banking sector remains vulnerable to “constant
funding concerns” and loans to the Irish property market, the
IMF said in today’s report. Another factor is the government’s
costs in managing Anglo-Irish Bank, which was nationalized two
years ago and has “sucked in ever-increasing public funds,”
the IMF said.  Subordinated Debt  Ireland plans to require holders of subordinated debt to
share in the banking system’s losses. At this time there are no
plans to require losses from senior bondholders, and the IMF
concurs with that decision, said  Ajai Chopra , deputy director of
the IMF’s European Department, on a conference call with
reporters today.  Exports will continue to lead Ireland’s recovery, the fund
said. Government budget cuts will hamper growth, and “subdued”
inflation will help competitiveness and also act as a “short-
term drag” on the recovery, the IMF said.  Ireland’s ratio of debt to gross domestic product is
expected to reach 99 percent by the end of 2010, up from 25
percent in 2007 at the onset of the financial crisis, the IMF
said. Debt is expected to peak at 125 percent of GDP in 2013,
and it could go higher if the shocks to Ireland’s economy become
permanent, the fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  