-- Irish Bonds Drop, German Bunds Gain After Moody's Slashes Ireland's Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2010-12-17T16:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/irish-two-year-notes-decline-after-moody-s-cuts-credit-rating-five-notches.html
Irish  government bonds declined and
German bunds rose as Moody’s Investors Service cut Ireland’s
credit rating, renewing concern that Europe will struggle to
stem the debt crisis and boosting demand for the safest assets.  The yield difference, or  spread , between Irish securities
and German bunds widened even as European Union leaders agreed
on a mechanism to contain debt shocks and the European Central
Bank said it will raise capital. Moody’s lowered Ireland five
levels to Baa1 from Aa2 and may cut the rating further as the
nation struggles to contain bank losses. Portugal’s bonds also
slid on speculation it could be the next country to seek aid.  “The size of the downgrade is somewhat worrisome,” said
 Christopher Rieger , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG
in Frankfurt. Irish debt’s “investor base looks at risk of
eroding further, with market participants becoming uneasy.”  The yield on Irish 10-year bonds rose 22 basis points to
8.64 percent as of 3:40 p.m. in London. The yield on Portuguese
10-year bonds increased two basis points to 6.58 percent.  German 10-year bunds rose, pushing yields down four basis
points to 3.03 percent. The 2.5 percent security due January
2021 advanced 0.31, or 3.1 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,329) face
amount, to 95.48. Two-year yields declined three basis points to
1.06 percent.  Bunds pared gains earlier after a report showed German
business confidence reached a record in December as domestic
demand helped bolster the recovery in Europe’s largest economy.  German bonds have returned 5.3 percent this year, compared
with an 11 percent loss from Irish debt, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  ‘Acute’ Problem  “The Irish government’s financial strength could decline
further if economic growth were to be weaker than currently
projected or the cost of stabilizing the banking system turn out
to be higher than currently forecast,” Moody’s said today.  The extra yield that investors demand for holding Ireland’s
10-year bonds rather than German equivalent, Europe’s benchmark,
rose 12 basis points to 534 basis points today. That spread
reached a euro-area record of 680 basis points on Nov. 30.  The Irish downgrade is “further bad news for the European
sector in general,” said  David Page , a fixed-income strategist
at Lloyds TSB Bank Plc. “We are all aware of the problems in
Ireland, but it does add to pressures for the wider euro zone.
It comes against downgrade warnings on other euro-zone countries
including Belgium, Greece, and Spain.”  Credit Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against default for Irish government
bonds rose 14 basis points to 574, according to data provider
CMA, the highest since Nov. 30.  As European governments struggle to stop contagion from
Greece and Ireland to other nations, Moody’s this week said it
may lower Spain from Aa1. It also placed Greece’s Ba1 rating on
review for a possible downgrade. European Union leaders agreed
at a meeting in Brussels yesterday to amend the bloc’s treaties
to create a permanent crisis-management mechanism in 2013.  For now, Germany ruled out topping up the current 750
billion-euro ($1 trillion) emergency fund or using it more
flexibly.  German debt outperformed its U.S. counterparts today, with
their 10-year yield spread widening two basis points to 38 basis
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
 Emma Charlton  in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  