-- Ivory Coast Braces for Second Day of Clashes as Opposition Expands Marches
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-17T08:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ivory-coast-braces-for-second-day-of-clashes-opposition-supporters-march.html
Ivory Coast  is bracing for a second
day of political violence as opposition supporters threaten to
expand protests beyond the two main cities of the world’s top
cocoa producer.  Stores remained shuttered and communal taxis kept off the
roads in the commercial capital, Abidjan, today after as many as
32 supporters of  Alassane Ouattara , the United Nations-backed
winner of a Nov. 28 election, were killed yesterday. Security
forces loyal to  Laurent Gbagbo  used live ammunition and tear gas
against protesters who aimed to force him from power. The deaths
occurred in Abidjan and Yamoussoukro, the capital, an opposition
spokesman said.  Guillaume Soro , Ouattara’s choice for prime minister,
called on supporters to continue their protests today in remarks
broadcast on an opposition radio station. The marches are part
of 68-year-old Ouattara’s attempts to take control of government
offices and  state television . The army, which backs Gbagbo, has
reinforced its positions at the national broadcaster and the
presidency.  “Nothing can abolish our determination to have a democracy
in our country,” Soro said yesterday.  Gunfire and heavy artillery was heard in several Abidjan
neighborhoods yesterday, including around the UN-secured  Golf
Hotel  that Ouattara is using as his headquarters. The UN mission
in Ivory Coast treated some of the injured at its clinic,
spokesman Hamadoun Toure said in an e-mailed statement. He
called on “all parties concerned to demonstrate restraint and
calm” during the marches.  Just Go  Ivory Coast has been in political limbo since the electoral
commission declared Ouattara the winner of the runoff election
with 54.1 percent of the vote, and the Constitutional Council,
after disqualifying seven voting districts in the north, said
Gbagbo, 65, won.  The U.S., France and the African Union are urging Gbagbo to
stop contesting the election and leave the country, a U.S. State
Department official said late yesterday.  A grenade yesterday struck the outer perimeter of the U.S.
Embassy in Abidjan, causing only slight damage and no injuries,
the State Department said.  The U.S. official, speaking on condition that he not be
named, said the U.S. condemned the violence and has told Gbagbo
that he and others could face sanctions unless he leaves the
country. The official said Gbagbo has homes in many countries
that he can use.  ‘Republican Spirit’  Army chief Philippe Mangou and other senior military
officers have appeared on Radio Television Ivoirienne in recent
days calling on troops to “respect the republican spirit.”  Security forces were simply protecting state institutions,
Eric Ane, a spokesman for Gbagbo’s party, said yesterday. “The
security forces are doing their job, which is to say to maintain
order, not more,” he said.  Jacqueline Oble, Gbagbo’s Education Minister, told RTI late
yesterday that 10 security personnel and 10 protesters were
killed in the clashes.  The U.S., Canada and the Netherlands on Dec. 14 advised
their citizens in Ivory Coast to leave the country while the
uncertainty persists. More than 3,000 people have fled into
Liberia from Ivory Coast since the runoff vote, Saah Nyumah,
deputy executive director of the Liberia Refugees, Repatriation
and Resettlement Commission, told reporters in Monrovia Dec. 15.  Cocoa climbed for the fourth day yesterday amid fears the
political conflict would hamper exports. March-delivery beans
gained $24, or 0.8 percent, to $3,003 by the close of trade in
New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 