-- Ivory Coast's Gbagbo Under Heightened Pressure as Sarkozy Says He Must Go
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2010-12-17T14:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ivory-coast-s-gbagbo-under-mounting-pressure-to-leave-following-protests.html
Pressure mounted on  Laurent Gbagbo 
to resign  Ivory Coast ’s presidency as French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said he must leave by the end of the week or face
sanctions, and Kenya’s premier said he should be forcibly
removed if necessary.  The comments came as Abidjan, the commercial capital,
cleaned up after a day of protests by supporters of opposition
leader  Alassane Ouattara .  Some shoppers made their way to markets in Abidjan today,
though few taxi drivers plied the streets amid a heavy army
presence at the headquarters of the state-owned  broadcaster  and
the hotel that Ouattara, the United Nations-backed winner of a
Nov. 28 election, uses as his headquarters. Ouattara’s Prime
Minister,  Guillaume Soro , had called on supporters to continue
their protests in an attempt to take control of Radio Television
Ivoirienne and government offices.  “Laurent Gbagbo must choose now if he wants to go down in
history as a man of peace or be considered a criminal,” Sarkozy
said at a press conference in Brussels today. “The Ivorians
have spoken, the international community has spoken. Laurent
Gbagbo must go.”  Ivory Coast, the world’s top cocoa grower, has been in
political limbo since the electoral commission declared Ouattara
the winner of the runoff election with 54.1 percent of the vote,
and the Constitutional Council, after disqualifying seven voting
districts in the north, said Gbagbo, 65, won.  Deaths  As many as 32 people were reported killed in Abidjan and
Yamoussoukro, the capital, yesterday, when security forces loyal
to Gbagbo opened fire on marchers. Sporadic gunfire was heard in
parts of Abidjan today, according to Ouattara’s supporters in
the neighborhoods of Abobo and Adjame.  The European Union condemned the fighting, “particularly
the recourse to violence against civilians,” and noted the
“availability expressed by the International Criminal Court to
prosecute persons responsible for such acts,” according to a
statement issued in Brussels today.  A U.S. State Department official, speaking on condition
that he not be identified, said the U.S. condemned the violence
and has told Gbagbo that he and others could face sanctions
unless he leaves the country. Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga 
said Gbagbo should be forcibly removed from power, according to
Agence France-Presse.  Security forces were simply protecting state institutions,
Eric Ane, a spokesman for Gbagbo’s party, said yesterday. “The
security forces are doing their job, which is to say to maintain
order, not more,” he said.  Jacqueline Oble, Gbagbo’s Education Minister, told RTI late
yesterday that 10 security forces and 10 demonstrators were
killed.  Cocoa Exports  Cocoa shipments from Ivory Coast have slowed amid the
unrest, International Cocoa Organization Executive Director
 Jean-Marc Anga  said today. Trucks carrying cocoa from villages
to ports for exports are being subject to increased inspections
by “the authorities and law and order officers,” Anga said by
phone from London.  March-delivery cocoa fell for the first day this week,
shedding 24 pounds, or 1.2 percent, to 1,982 pounds per metric
ton by 1:13 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pauline Bax  and  Olivier Monnier  in Abidjan via Accra at
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 