-- Ivory Coast Unrest Slows Cocoa Trade, Spurs Truck Inspections, ICCO Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-12-17T13:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/ivory-coast-unrest-slows-cocoa-trade-in-largest-producer-icco-s-anga-says.html
Ivory Coast unrest is slowing
economic activity and cocoa trade “in particular,”
International Cocoa Organization Executive Director Jean-Marc
Anga said.  Trucks carrying cocoa from villages to ports for exports
are being subject to increased inspections by “the authorities
and law and order officers,” Anga said by phone from London
today. The Ivory Coast is the world’s largest cocoa grower.  The West African country is bracing for a second day of
political violence after a disputed presidential election
resulted in both incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo  and challenger
 Alassane Ouattara  claiming victory. As many as 32 supporters of
Ouattara, the United Nations-backed winner of the Nov. 28
election, were killed yesterday.  The Ivory Coast cocoa crop for the season that started Oct.
1 will be 1.3 million metric tons, Macquarie Group Ltd. said on
Dec. 6. That would be up from the year-earlier harvest of 1.2
million tons, Macquarie estimated in October. Cocoa prices in
London have climbed 4.9 percent since the disputed election
spurred speculation that violence would curb its bean exports.  Cocoa for March delivery dropped 40 pounds, or 2 percent,
to 1,966 pounds ($3,059) a ton by 12:37 p.m. on NYSE Liffe, the
first drop this week.  Crop Forecast  “It is a bit early to change the crop forecast,” Anga
said. “The cocoa trade is relatively resilient, even at the
height of the civil unrest in 2002 cocoa was still able to leave
the country.” Anga took over in October as executive director
of the ICCO, representing 44 cocoa exporting and importing
countries.  The Ivory Coast has been divided since 2002, when rebels in
the north attempted to topple Gbagbo. Its cocoa production has
dropped from 1.4 million tons in 2005-06 as tree diseases curbed
output.  Anga, who was born in Ivory Coast, plans to return to the
country next week based in Abidjan, the commercial capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  