-- Mixi Counts on Privacy, Greeting Cards to Fend Off Facebook Push in Japan
-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v   a n d   Y o s h i n o r i   E k i
-- 2010-12-17T02:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/mixi-counts-on-privacy-greeting-cards-to-fend-off-facebook-push-in-japan.html
Mixi Inc. , owner of Japan’s largest
social networking service, expects to fend off Facebook Inc.
because its website is better suited to domestic users and
personal data is more secure, President  Kenji Kasahara  said.  “Facebook’s service emphasizes connection to users
overseas, stresses openness over privacy and doesn’t reflect
regional characteristics,” Kasahara, 35, whose stake in the
company is worth about $479 million, said in an interview in
Tokyo on Dec. 15. “Our users value a social space that is like
a living room -- private, comfortable and personal.”  Mixi, whose shares have tumbled 39 percent this year, is
adding games and expanding to smartphones to revive earnings
after profit fell for three of the past four quarters. Facebook
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  in July said the company
is focusing on expansion in Japan and Russia this year,
increasing the pressure on the Japanese company to introduce new
features to protect its lead.  Mixi , which began social network operations in 2004, has
fallen 71 percent since its initial public offering in 2006 and
traded 0.5 percent lower at 443,000 yen as of the 11 a.m. break
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The company competes against
 Gree Inc.  and News Corp.’s MySpace.  Closely held Facebook introduced simpler privacy controls
in May and said it was reducing the amount of user information
that’s publicly available after lawmakers and advocacy groups
complained that the service shares too much personal data.  Popular Site  Mixi gives its 22 million subscribers more fine-grain
controls over who sees their content, such as allowing the users
to disclose information to individual friends, Kasahara said.  Jonathan Thaw , a spokesman for Palo Alto, California-based
Facebook, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail
seeking comment.  Mixi  was Japan’s 12th  most popular  website, compared with
Facebook.com’s 18th place, according to Alexa Internet Inc., a
Web traffic-monitoring company owned by Amazon.com Inc.  Facebook 
ranked second after  Google Inc .’s search in the U.S., Germany,
France and the U.K., while topping the list in Indonesia,
Malaysia and Philippines.  The Tokyo-based company earlier this month introduced  Zynga
Game Network Inc. ’s “FarmVille,” Facebook’s most popular game,
and is improving tools to help developers make applications for
its network. Mixi in September began offering services that
match Facebook’s “Like” and Foursquare Labs Inc.’s check-in
functions.  Twitter-Like Messages  Mixi offers a traditional year-end greetings card service
with Japan Post Service that allows users to send physical post
cards to social network friends. About 3.5 billion postcards
were exchanged in the country last year, according to the postal
authority.  Mixi users can send Twitter-like messages limited to 150
characters, a service that began in September 2009 and isn’t
available on Facebook.  Facebook’s expansion in Japan may not necessarily lead to a
drop in Mixi’s market share. Facebook in October allowed
simultaneous sharing of pictures and comments for users that
link their accounts to Mixi. The Japanese company also allows
linking to Twitter Inc.’s microblogging service.  “It’s possible for two networks to co-exist,” Kasahara
said. “We are focusing on making our service easy to use for
Japanese.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yoshinori Eki  in Tokyo at 
 yeki@bloomberg.net ;
 Pavel Alpeyev  in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  