-- J&J’s Contractor for Tainted Rolaids Faces Scrutiny
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2010-12-21T20:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/j-j-contractor-for-tainted-rolaids-fda-face-lawmaker-s-scrutiny-in-recall.html
(Corrects Baskin-Robbins owner in sixth paragraph of story
published Dec. 17.)  A regulatory probe of product
recalls that may cost  Johnson & Johnson  $600 million in sales
this year should be widened to include the company’s outside
manufacturers, U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa  said.  The  Food and Drug Administration  should investigate a
contractor linked to 13 million recalled packages of Rolaids
chewable tablets tainted with metal and wood particles, said
Issa, a California Republican who will head the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee in January. Issa, in a letter to
the FDA, identified J&J’s supplier as BestSweet, a Mooresville,
North Carolina-based producer of more than 4 billion drug and
food items a year.  J&J, the world’s biggest maker of health-care products, was
targeted by Congress after recalling more than 40 types of
medicines this year because of contamination and incorrect
labeling. In the Rolaids recall, initiated Dec. 9, the company
said the products may have been contaminated when they were
produced by an unidentified contractor.  “This newfound information regarding outsourcing of drug
manufacturing at Johnson & Johnson raises fresh questions about
the general practice of contract drug manufacturing, as well as
FDA’s knowledge and awareness of this issue,” Issa said today
in a letter to FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg .  Marc Boston , a spokesman for J&J’s McNeil Consumer
Healthcare division in Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, confirmed
today in an e-mail that BestSweet is the manufacturer and that
this information has been shared with regulators.  CVS Supplier  BestSweet makes candy for Baskin-Robbins, a subsidiary of
closely held Dunkin Brands Inc., and was named the 2010
“supplier of the year” for  CVS Caremark Corp. ’s store brands,
according to BestSweet’s  website . CVS is based in Woonsocket,
Rhode Island.  “We have an excellent safety track record,”  Rhonda Barnat , a spokeswoman for BestSweet, said today in a telephone
interview. “We are cooperating with all parties.”  J&J gained 14 cents to $62.54 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The New Brunswick, New Jersey-based
company has fallen 2.9 percent this year,  compared with  a 1.2
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Health-Care Index of
52 stocks.  BestSweet’s Mooresville plant had seven FDA inspections
since January 2000, according to data obtained by Bloomberg
through the Freedom of Information Act. The most recent
inspection, in October 2009, didn’t result in reported
violations. The data covered inspections as of October of this
year.  Records Request  Issa asked the FDA to provide, by Jan. 5, BestSweet’s
inspection records and a response about whether the Rolaids
recall raises concerns that the company’s other products may be
unsafe. The FDA will reply directly to Issa,  Christopher Kelly ,
a spokesman for the agency, said in an e-mail.  U.S. lawmakers began their investigation into J&J following
the recall of batches of children’s Tylenol in April that forced
the company to suspend operations at its Fort Washington
manufacturing plant. The probe also uncovered the use of
contractors to buy quantities of defective Motrin painkiller.
J&J Chief Executive Officer  Bill Weldon  testified before the
House committee about the company’s manufacturing issues in
September.  J&J said July 20 that the recalls and manufacturing halt
would reduce sales by about $600 million this year. The company
reported $61.9 billion in  revenue  in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Larkin  in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
 Drew Armstrong  in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  