-- Jeff Vinik's Hedge Fund Turns to Index Tracking After Stock-Picking Gains
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2010-12-17T19:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/jeff-vinik-s-hedge-fund-turns-to-index-funds-after-stock-picking-gains.html
Jeffrey N. Vinik , the hedge-fund
manager whose stock selections have beaten markets for the
better part of two decades, has invested almost half of his U.S.
equity portfolio in passive index funds.  Of the $3.39 billion in equities Vinik oversaw as of Sept.
30, about 48 percent was comprised of exchange-traded funds that
track industries and global markets, according to a November
regulatory filing. His Boston-based firm held more shares than
any other hedge fund in 11 of the 13 ETFs he owned, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  A self-described “bottom-up” investor, Vinik is known for
making big moves that defy conventional wisdom, including an
ill-timed decision to sell technology shares and buy U.S.
Treasuries as head of the Fidelity Magellan mutual fund in 1996.
ETFs are passive index funds used more often by managers who
invest based on broad economic trends than those who scrutinize
the individual companies they wager on or against.  “I don’t think I know of any stock-picking hedge fund that
uses ETFs on the long side,”  Eric Weinstein , chief investment
officer for the fund-of-funds business at New York-based
Neuberger Berman Group LLC, said in a telephone interview.
“Macro managers do use ETFs as part of their ordinary day to
day portfolio management business -- betting on which markets
are going to go up or down.”  Mark Hostetter , chief operating officer for Vinik Asset
Management LP, declined to comment.  ETF Trading  Unlike shares of traditional open-end mutual funds that can
only be sold at the end of each day at net asset value, ETFs are
listed on stock exchanges, allowing investors to trade them
whenever markets are open. Most ETFs are passive, holding the
stocks that comprise market benchmarks such as the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  of large U.S. companies and S&P’s Energy Select
Sector Index, a bellwether for the oil and  gas industry .  Managers use ETFs to speculate on stock, bond and commodity
markets, or to reduce the risks of investing in those assets.
Some park money in the funds as they research specific stocks
within an industry or index.  “There are a lot of people who use ETFs as a simpler,
cheaper way to do a portfolio trade,” said Peter Shea, a lawyer
in the New York office of Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP who works
with exchange funds and commodity products. “It can be a way of
getting in quickly where you don’t have a lot of rigmarole.”  Beating the S&P  As far back as 1996, Vinik made investment decisions on 25
companies a day while running Vinik Overseas Fund Ltd.,
according to the website for his alma mater, Duke University’s
Pratt School of Engineering in Durham, North Carolina. The fund
returned about 76 percent, 45 percent and 29 percent after fees
in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively, outpacing the S&P 500’s
gains of 33 percent, 29 percent and 21 percent.  Vinik’s current vehicle, JNV Overseas Fund Ltd., rose 50
percent in 2007, compared with the 5.5 percent return for the
S&P 500 including dividends, according to foundation tax records
filed by  Michael Gordon , another manager at Vinik Asset
Management. The next year, JNV Overseas fell about 3 percent as
the benchmark plunged 37 percent, the tax records show.  Vinik doesn’t publicly disclose the fees he charges, and
releases little information on JNV Overseas, which he
established in November 2004 after taking a break from formal
money management to spend more time with his family. He set up
JNV Overseas mainly to invest his own money along with cash from
friends, family and a few outside clients including billionaire
 George Soros , said two people briefed on the matter who asked
not to be named because the fund isn’t public.  Long-Short Equity  The endowment for Duke University, where Vinik received a
bachelor’s degree in civil engineering in 1981, listed a $50
million investment in JNV Overseas in 2006 financial statements.
Other shareholders include Permal Asset Management Inc. in New
York and Hunt Financial Ventures LP of Dallas, which describe
JNV Overseas in investor reports as a long-short equity fund.
That means it takes “long” positions by purchasing stocks
while betting against others through short sales, or borrowing
and then selling shares in anticipation of a price decline.  At the end of last year, Vinik held ETFs valued at $555.6
million, equaling 17 percent of the $3.2 billion in stocks he
listed in a Form 13F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The value almost tripled to $1.64 billion by the end
of the third quarter after additional purchases and market
gains.  The shift coincided with a move out of retailers and other
consumer-discretionary stocks, as Vinik’s firm reduced its
holdings in companies such as  Ross Stores Inc.  and Amazon.com
Inc. to $802 million as of Sept. 30 from $2.08 billion at
midyear.  Emerging Markets  Vinik simultaneously bought stakes valued at $446 million
in a pair of ETFs that track the S&P 500 and the Russell 2000,
two benchmarks for U.S. stocks, the latest document shows. He
also acquired a $146 million stake in the iShares MSCI Emerging
 Markets  Index, raised his holdings in an iShares exchange-traded
fund for Brazil and pared his bets on iShares funds for
Australia, Canada and China.  The manager added a $292 million stake in the  Energy Select
Sector SPDR Fund , comprising oil and gas companies such as
Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. in San
Ramon, California, during the quarter. He purchased $105 million
of shares in the Industrial Select Sector SPDR Fund, whose
largest holding is  General Electric Co.  of Fairfield,
Connecticut, while selling half of the 20 million shares he
owned in the Financial Select Sector SPDR at the end of June.  ‘Feet on the Ground’  “He is clearly using ETFs where it is hard to get his own
feet on the ground and do the analysis,” such as in emerging
markets, said  James Lowell , chief investment strategist at
Adviser Investment Management Inc., a Newton, Massachusetts,
firm that has about $1.3 billion in mutual and exchange-traded
funds. “If he is going into oil and gas and building up broad
emerging markets, that has a correlation with the way energy
plays,” Lowell said, noting that crude oil and natural gas are
key exports for countries such as Mexico and Venezuela.  Other hedge funds have reported owning ETFs in their Form
13Fs, a document used by money managers to show their holdings
in stocks listed on U.S. exchanges at the end of each quarter.
The forms don’t include stocks sold short. Most hedge funds list
holdings in one or two ETFs.  In 2004,  Louis Moore Bacon ’s fund owned shares of the SPDR
S&P 500 ETF valued at $922 million, or more than half its equity
holdings. Eton Park Capital Management LP held 4.6 million SPDR
Gold Trust shares valued at $585 million as of Sept. 30.  Hedge funds accounted for 9 percent of the $154 billion in
ETF assets held by U.S. money managers at the end of 2008, the
latest data available from BlackRock Inc., the New York-based
firm that runs the iShares funds.  Rising Correlation  Hedge funds have increased their use of ETFs when they want
to protect against declining markets, said  Weinstein  at
Neuberger Berman. Shorting single companies has become riskier
because this year’s rise in correlation among stocks means that
there is a higher probability that even weak companies might
surge when the market does.  “A lot of the moves in the market have been macro-based
rather than based on individual company news,” said  Duncan Hennes , a partner at Atrevida Partners LLC, a multi-strategy
hedge fund based in Rye, New York, and former chief executive
officer of Soros’s money-management firm. “It’s tougher to make
money by being long undervalued companies and short overvalued
companies when all stocks tend to move in the same direction.”  Magellan’s Bold Bet  It was a broad, so-called macro bet that marked the end of
Vinik’s career at Fidelity Magellan, which he oversaw from July
1992 until May 1996, when it ranked as the world’s largest
mutual fund with more than $56 billion in assets. In the fund’s
shareholder reports, Vinik said he was managing Magellan on a
“stock-by-stock” basis, seeking out companies that could
produce the best long-term earnings growth while selling at the
most reasonable valuations.  During the fourth quarter of 1995 and first quarter of
1996, Vinik cut Fidelity Magellan’s technology holdings to 3.5
percent of net assets from 40 percent, stating that revenue
growth was slowing at such companies. He simultaneously plowed
21 percent of the fund into U.S. Treasuries.  The move generated an outcry from shareholders who
complained that Fidelity Magellan, a growth fund formerly run by
Vinik’s mentor  Peter Lynch , shouldn’t be investing in bonds.
Vinik, who beat the market with average annual returns of 18
percent through 1995, left Boston-based Fidelity the next May
and Magellan finished the year with a total return of 12
percent, about half the 23 percent gain recorded by the S&P 500.  “He is most famous, for better or for worse, for making an
asset-allocation bet at the end of his tenure,” said
 Christopher Davis , a research analyst at Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc. “Investing in bonds in the late 1990s was not
going to endear you to anybody.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 