-- Australia Builds a 200-Run Lead Over England in Third Ashes Cricket Test
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2010-12-17T10:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/johnson-leads-australia-fight-back-in-ashes-as-england-collapses.html
Australia reached 119-3 in its
second innings to lead England by 200 runs in the third Ashes
cricket Test in Perth as 13 wickets fell on day two.  Recalled fast bowler  Mitchell Johnson , who top scored in
Australia’s first-innings 268 yesterday, claimed 6-38 to help
bowl England out for 187. The touring team then dismissed
 Phillip Hughes ,  Ricky Ponting  and  Michael Clarke  before stumps.  Johnson’s seventh five-wicket haul in elite Tests earlier
helped Australia take an 81-run first-innings lead as it seeks
to level the best-of-five contest at 1-1 following defeat in
Adelaide. A victory for England at the WACA Ground would give it
an unbeatable 2-0 lead and see it retain the Ashes.  “Being dropped from the Test team in Adelaide was
disappointing but it was a good wake-up call for me and got me
working on things that I needed to,” Johnson told Channel 9.
“Hopefully out there I showed that today. As a bowling group we
did very well together.”  England removed Hughes, Ponting and Clarke in the final
session to rebound after losing 10 wickets for 109 runs to be
all out just before the tea interval. England’s openers had
taken the score to 78 without loss before the collapse.  Opener  Shane Watson  will resume on 61 after reaching his
third half-century in four innings.  Michael Hussey , Australia’s
top run scorer in the series, is 24 not out.  Steve Finn had Hughes caught by  Paul Collingwood  at third
slip for 12 and then dismissed Ponting for one with a delivery
that flicked the Australian skipper’s glove and was taken by
wicketkeeper  Matt Prior  down the leg side. The umpire’s initial
judgment of not out was overturned on appeal.  Ponting’s Struggles  Ponting, who faces the possibility of losing a third Ashes
series as Australia captain following defeats in the U.K. in
2005 and 2009, has now made 83 runs in six innings at an average
of 16.60.  Clarke blasted 20 runs off 17 balls before getting an
inside edge onto his stumps when trying to force a delivery from
 Chris Tremlett  through cover.  Johnson, who was dropped for the second match after going
wicketless in the series opener at Brisbane, earlier wrapped up
England’s innings in the final over before tea by bowling
Tremlett and having  James Anderson  caught at slip by Watson.
Ryan Harris finished with 3-59.  Left-arm seamer Johnson removed  Alastair Cook ,  Jonathan Trott ,  Kevin Pietersen  and Collingwood in the morning with a
spell of swing and pace bowling that included 3-4 in 12 balls.  Reeling England  Harris dismissed captain  Andrew Strauss  for 52 before lunch
to leave England, which amassed 1,137 runs for the loss of six
wickets in its previous two innings, reeling at 119-5.  Australia bombarded Prior with short-pitched balls after
the break and the tactic worked when he was forced to defend a
 Peter Siddle  delivery. The ball rebounded onto his bat off his
body and dropped to the ground before hitting the stumps for
Siddle’s first wicket since day one of the series.  Ian Bell  and  Graeme Swann  added 36 runs before Harris got
his second wicket when Swann edged a ball that moved late behind
to wicketkeeper  Brad Haddin . Harris struck again when Bell,
after top scoring with 53, edged to Ponting at third slip to
make it 186-8.  Johnson’s haul of wickets followed his opening-day effort
with the bat when he scored 62 to help Australia’s lower-order
lift the total past 250 after it had slumped to 69-5.  The Australians, who entered the match on a five-Test
winless run, have won the past five Ashes Tests at the WACA,
where England has one victory in 11 previous attempts.  As holder, the English would keep the trophy by tying the
series. England last successfully retained the Ashes in 1986-87,
when  Mike Gatting ’s team secured a 2-1 series win in Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Baynes  in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  