-- Joy to the World, My Wine Has Come: Holiday Drinking Gift Guide
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/joy-to-the-world-my-wine-has-come-drinking-gifts-from-books-to-bottles.html
Booze-related presents are fun. From
books to bottles, here are a few selections that can satisfy
even last minute gift-giving needs for everyone on your list.  Whisky Snob:  “The World Atlas of Whisky”  (Mitchell
Beazley/Octopus Books, $34.99). The book breaks up each of the
350 whiskies into flavor camps like ‘fragrant and floral’ or
‘smoky and peaty’. Written by award-winning author Dave Broom,
lush color photos, detailed regional maps and flow charts tell
you everything you’d ever want to know.  While this book is certainly a stellar stand-alone gift, a
bottle of the ‘water of life’ would be appropriate for sipping
while perusing.  I have a relationship with the Isle of Skye in  Scotland  so
 Talisker  10-year old is my go-to whisky. Who doesn’t love
bonfires and pork rind on the nose with a dry, peppery finish!
($59.99, available worldwide. Prices vary depending on
location.)  Riedel , the Austrian company that pioneered wine-specific
glassware, makes a sexy, hand-blown, lead-crystal whisky glass
on a short stem. It was created with input from master Scottish
distillers and the $74 glass will probably please a single malt
snob. (Available worldwide on Riedel.com, and  Williams-Sonoma  in
the United States.)  Cost-Conscious Drinker: “ The Wine Trials 2011 ” ($14.95),
billed as “the world’s bestselling guide to inexpensive
wines,” offers 175 wines at less than $15. The list was created
by blind taste tests, pitting bottles costing $50 and more
against cheaper selections.  Instructions for setting up your own tastings are given in
“Chapter 9: Drinking Games for Adults.” The comparison that
comes up most often in the book is  Domaine Ste. Michelle Cuvee
Brut  ($12) and  Dom Perignon  ($150, even with the Andy Warhol
special-edition packaging). A couple of brown lunch bags to hide
the goodies and you’ve got a party, no matter which bubbly comes
out on top.  Aspirational Drinker: Speaking of comparisons,  City Winery 
in Manhattan offers a five-session class on  Old World vs. New
World  wines. The next course starts January 28 and each class
includes tastings of four wines and a family-style dinner with
two more wines. ($55 for one class, $225 for all five classes.)  The term ‘ barrel ownership ’ has a certain je ne sais quoi.
Imagine the excitement your loved one will feel when 21 cases of
custom-made wine lands at the door 18 months after crushing, de-
stemming, pressing, fermenting and bottling. Joy to the world!  Prices for winemaking at City Winery range from $6,500 for
sauvignon blanc to $8,500 for a pinot noir Bacigalupi grape from
Russian River Valley. Wine made from prime cabernet sauvignon
grapes from Napa Valley cost about $12,000 per barrel.  A seated position probably makes a big difference when
tasting your opus.  Barrelly Made It  has created a barstool made
from reused wine barrels ($450). Each hand-made stool is signed
and numbered and can be shipped anywhere in the U.S.  Techie:  Medea Vodka  makes a $39.95 bottle with a
programmable LED on the label. The ticker display is so bright
my pal at the office said, “You can even see this bottle under
the bed!”  Six lines with 255 characters each show scrollable messages
like “keep your grubby paws off my booze.”  Understandably, this year Medea won a Double Gold Award for
packaging at the  San Francisco World Spirits competition .  Couch Potato:  Dom Joly’s Happy Hour  ($31, in PAL format
only) follows Brit comedian Joly and his best mate Pete
traveling the world to research attitudes to alcohol. In the
video, first released in 2007, the crazy duo gets tanked in
places like New Orleans, Prague, and Mumbai. The camerawork is
beautiful and montages are hilarious.  (Catherine Smith writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 