-- Komatsu China Sales Ahead of Target on Infrastructure Projects, CEO Says
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2010-12-17T04:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/komatsu-s-china-sales-ahead-of-target-on-infrastructure-projects-ceo-says.html
Komatsu Ltd. , Asia’s largest maker
of construction equipment, is selling more excavators in China
than anticipated this quarter as the government spurs
infrastructure development in its interior regions.  China unit sales of excavators, the best-selling
construction equipment, are on pace to climb 25 percent in the
quarter ending Dec. 31, exceeding the firm’s October estimate of
15 percent growth, President  Kunio Noji  said. Komatsu holds a 14
percent market share in China, ranking ahead of rivals including
South Korea’s Doosan Infracore Co., China’s  Sany Heavy Industry
Co.  and  Caterpillar Inc. , according to Nomura Securities Co.  Urbanization in China, set to surpass Japan as the world’s
second-largest economy this year, and the nation’s appetite for
coal are lifting sales of excavators and mining dump trucks.
China replaced Japan as Tokyo-based Komatsu’s  biggest market 
last year and is forecast to drive 20 percent of the company’s
sales this year, up from 5 percent four years ago.  “Chinese demand remains strong as far as we gauge it,”
Noji, 64, said yesterday in an interview at the company’s
headquarters. Komatsu’s excavators are equipped with GPS
technology that enables engineers in Tokyo to track how the
machines are used at construction sites.  Robust Building  Noji said demand in China has been higher than anticipated
in the quarter ending this month, indicating robust building
activity. China’s infrastructure spending will probably increase
the market for digging machines by 10 percent next fiscal year,
Noji said.  “Komatsu is less vulnerable to a shift into tightening
policies as its operations are related to the area that needs
spending,” said Yoku Ihara, an adviser to Retela Crea
Securities Co. “There’s no change in the trend that the country
will invest in construction projects and resources.”  Komatsu  rose 0.5 percent to 2,499 yen as of 1:31 p.m. on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has risen 29 percent this
year, compared with a 2.4 percent drop in the benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  Outside China, Komatsu is looking to expand operations in
Latin America, including Brazil. Noji visited Komatsu’s Sao
Paulo factory a couple of weeks ago. Heavy machines are used in
Brazil for iron ore mining, cultivation of eucalyptus trees and
sugar cane, and road construction.  “Many projects are being lined up in Brazil,” the
president said. “I expect growth will be sustained.”  Second Plant  Komatsu may build a second plant in Latin America by the
end of 2012 as demand is set to surpass production capacity at
the existing factory, which produces excavators, wheel loaders
and bulldozers. The company will decide next year whether to add
a factory, Noji said.  Revenue in Latin America surged 42 percent in the fiscal
first half to 107 billion yen, surpassing North American sales,
according to an Oct. 28 presentation by Komatsu. Latin America
accounted for 14 percent of its sales, while North America,
Komatsu’s largest market until 2007, accounted for 11 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Masumi Suga  in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasumasa Song  in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 