-- Korea Express Jumps as Asiana Considers Sale Spurring Takeover Speculation
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o
-- 2010-12-17T09:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/korea-express-jumps-as-asiana-considers-sale-spurring-takeover-speculation.html
Korea Express Co. , South Korea’s
biggest logistics company, rose to the highest level in more
than a week in Seoul trading on speculation it may win
investment following a possible takeover.  Asiana Airlines Inc. said yesterday it may sell its 24
percent stake in Seoul-based Korea Express as parent  Kumho
Asiana Group  works to reduce debt. Daewoo Engineering &
Construction Co., controlled by creditor Korea Development Bank,
may also sell its 24 percent, the builder said in a regulatory
filing today.  Korea Express has slumped 18 percent since Kumho Asiana
took control of the company in March 2008 as the group wrestles
with debt from acquisitions. The operator of ships, terminals
and express-delivery trucks will likely attract a number of
bidders if put up for sale, said  Jung Yun Jin , a Seoul-based
analyst at Kyobo Securities Co.  “Korea Express needs a better owner who can support the
company’s main business and improve its financial health,” Jung
said. “Kumho Asiana’s aggressive expansion through acquisitions
has hurt the financial health of the entire group.”  Korea Express  rose 1 percent to 93,700 won at the 3 p.m.
close of trading, compared with a 0.9 percent gain for South
Korea’s benchmark Kospi index.  Asiana Airlines , the nation’s
second-biggest carrier, fell 3.8 percent to 10,250 won.  Daewoo
Engineering  gained 1.6 percent to 12,650 won.  Kumho Asiana said Jan. 5 that it plans to raise 1.3
trillion won ($1.1 billion) from asset sales to help repay debt
stemming from the 2006 takeover of Daewoo Engineering. The group
has already sold assets and lost control of units including
Daewoo Engineering,  Kumho Industrial Co.  and  Kumho Tire Co.  to
creditors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sookyung Seo in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 