-- New Insider-Trading Arrests Point Federal Prosecutors Toward Hedge Funds
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-18T00:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/new-technology-insider-trading-arrests-point-prosecutors-to-hedge-funds.html
The arrests of three technology
company workers who allegedly sold secrets about  Apple Inc., 
Dell Inc. and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. signal the U.S. may be
closing in on the hedge funds that paid for their expertise.  The men, who worked at  AMD , Flextronics International Ltd.
and  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. , were arrested
yesterday on securities fraud and conspiracy charges for a
scheme that Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara  said operated
from 2008 to early 2010.  Also arrested was  James Fleishman , a sales manager at
Primary Global Research LLC, the expert-networking firm where
the three worked as consultants. If convicted, all four face as
long as 20 years in prison.  “Prosecutors will want to pursue the hedge funds that
hired the expert consultants to give them insider information,”
said Stephen Miller, a lawyer at Cozen O’Connor LLP and a former
federal prosecutor in New York and Philadelphia.  A fifth man, Daniel DeVore, 46, formerly a supply manager
at  Dell , pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities fraud
and wire fraud in federal court in New York on Dec. 10, the U.S.
said yesterday. DeVore said he worked as a paid consultant for
Primary Global from late 2007 to August 2010 and, through the
firm, accepted money from hedge funds for inside information.  Expert-networking companies such as Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global match investors with specialists
who provide insight into specific markets. The criminal
complaint unsealed yesterday describes the links among Primary
Global, the technology experts it employed and unidentified
hedge funds willing to pay for inside information.  Search Warrants  On Nov. 22, Federal Bureau of Investigation agents from New
York and Boston executed search warrants at the offices of Level
Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
hedge funds founded by alumni of SAC Capital Advisors. Agents
that day also executed a search warrant at the offices of Loch
Capital Management. None of the firms or their employees has
been accused of any wrongdoing.  At his Dec. 10 plea hearing, DeVore said he worked for
Primary Global as an intermediary and “provided information to
money managers” knowing they would use it to trade securities.
He told the judge he gave the inside information to clients of
Primary Global and Guidepoint Global LLC, a research firm.  Guidepoint was subpoenaed by Massachusetts Secretary of the
Commonwealth  William F. Galvin  in November in connection with
its relationship to a hedge fund in the state.  ‘Corrupt Network’  “A corrupt network of insiders at some of the world’s
leading technology companies served as so-called consultants who
sold out their employers by stealing and then peddling their
valuable inside information,” Bharara said in a statement
yesterday.  The four men charged yesterday are the latest in a series
of arrests since the Nov. 24 arrest of another Primary Global
employee,  Don Chu , charged with arranging for insiders at
publicly traded companies to improperly provide material
information to hedge fund clients of the consulting firm where
he worked.  “This wasn’t market research,” said Janice Fedarcyk,
assistant director-in-charge of the FBI’s New York Office.
“What the defendants did was purchase and sell inside
information.”  Phone Taps  Investigators made consensual and wiretap recordings of an
unidentified expert-networking firm’s phones, the land lines of
an unidentified hedge fund and the mobile phones of two of the
men arrested yesterday -- Mark Anthony Longoria, who worked at
chipmaker AMD, and  Walter Shimoon , formerly of  Flextronics , a
Singapore-based maker of electronic components -- the U.S. said.
At least two hedge funds are described in the complaint. Neither
is identified by name.  “Few hedge fund managers have the investment skill to
deliver the benefits that they promise,”  James Fanto , a
professor at Brooklyn Law School in New York, said in an e-mail.
“They have to find an edge however they can -- in this case
through the expert networks,” said Fanto, who teaches banking,
corporate and securities law.  The case is the latest by Bharara’s office alleging
wrongdoing involving hedge funds based on wiretap evidence. He
announced charges against  Raj Rajaratnam , 53, the co-founder of
Galleon Group LLC, in October 2009, calling it the largest
insider-trading case involving hedge funds.  The FBI recorded thousands of conversations during their
investigation of that case, lawyers said at an October hearing
in Rajaratnam’s case. Rajaratnam, who denies the charges, is
scheduled to go on trial next year.  Hedge-Fund Phone  In the latest case, the FBI listened in on two telephones
used by Primary Global from 2009 to 2010 and the landline of a
California-based hedge fund from October 2008 to February 2009,
the complaint says.  According to the complaint, the U.S. also made consensual
recordings using five cooperating witnesses, had a tap on mobile
phones used by Shimoon and Longoria, and recorded conversations
at Primary Global in November 2009, a month after Rajaratnam’s
arrest.  “If you think you shouldn’t be talking about it --don’t,”
an unidentified Primary Global employee tells Shimoon during one
call, according to the complaint.  “That would really suck if you recorded all the calls,”
Shimoon replies.  This kind of talk can help the government’s case, said
Miller, the former federal prosecutor.  ‘Gets His Wings’  “A prosecutor angel gets his wings every time someone says
‘Boy, it would really stink if they were taping our calls,’” he
said.  Fleishman, 41, of Santa Clara, California, was charged with
wire fraud and conspiracy for allegedly trying to give non-
public information to clients, including hedge funds, according
to the complaint. Longoria, 44, of Round Rock, Texas; Shimoon,
39, of San Diego; and Manosha Karunatilaka, 37, of Marlborough,
Massachusetts, who worked at chipmaker  Taiwan Semiconductor ,
were charged with wire fraud, conspiracy to commit securities
fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud.  Fleishman appeared in federal court in San Jose,
California, yesterday and was released on $700,000 bail.
Longoria was granted $50,000 bail and freed by a federal
magistrate in Austin, Texas. Karunatilaka got bail of $300,000
in Boston federal court, his lawyer, Brad Bailey, said.  Shimoon Fired  Shimoon made his first court appearance today in San Diego,
where a judge refused to grant him immediate bail after a
prosecutor said there’s a “serious” risk he’ll flee if
released. A bail hearing is scheduled for Dec. 20.  Flextronics said Shimoon has been fired.  “PGR clients were money managers, including hedge funds,
many of whom were located in Manhattan,” DeVore told U.S.
District Judge  Jed Rakoff  at his plea hearing, according to a
court transcript.  “I provided to PGR clients and to PGR employees material
non-public information, Dell confidential information, Dell’s
production numbers, pricing inventory and market share of Dell’s
hard drives suppliers,” he said. “I also knew that on several
occasions I was speaking with hedge fund managers and employees
located in New York.”  David Frink , a spokesman for Round Rock-based  Dell , the
world’s third-biggest maker of personal computers, said the
company will cooperate with law enforcement. DeVore’s lawyer,
Johnny Sutton, declined to comment.  Longoria, Karunatilaka and Shimoon had worked as
consultants at Primary Global,  Dan Charnas , a company spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. Fleishman has been placed on
leave, Charnas said. He had no further comment.  ‘Expressly Prohibited’  Longoria resigned from AMD in October, said  Mike Silverman ,
a spokesman for the Sunnyvale, California-based chipmaker.  “This kind of activity is expressly prohibited by the
company,” Silverman said.  Longoria is cooperating with the investigation, Sam
Bassett, his lawyer, said in an interview yesterday.  Flextronics supplied components to Apple during the time of
the alleged fraud, prosecutors said in the statement. Shimoon is
accused of providing Fleishman’s firm with confidential sales
forecast information and new product features for the iPhone.  Steve Dowling , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment.  Taiwan Semiconductor said in an e-mail it terminated
Karunatilaka’s employment on the day of his indictment and that
the chipmaker will cooperate with U.S. prosecutors.  Five Helpers  The new complaint indicates five people have been working
with the government in the insider-trading probe. Only one
witness was identified by name: Richard Choo-Beng Lee, 56, a
former partner at San Jose, California-based hedge fund Spherix
Capital LLC. He began cooperating with the U.S. in April 2009,
court records show, providing information to Bharara’s office in
the government’s case against Galleon. He pleaded guilty in
November 2009.  His partner at San Jose, California-based Spherix,  Ali Far ,
who also worked as an analyst and portfolio manager at Galleon,
also pleaded guilty and is aiding the U.S. in the Galleon probe.  The U.S. said Chu established a relationship with Lee and
that Spherix paid Chu’s firm for tips concerning Atheros
Communications Inc., Broadcom Corp. and Sierra Wireless Inc.,
according to the government’s complaint.  The complaint unsealed yesterday lists four cooperators
without naming them: a Dell manager, a Primary Global analyst, a
New York hedge-fund analyst and a witness “who had substantial
experience evaluating public companies in the semiconductor and
technology industries.”  Shorter Sentence  With the exception of the hedge-fund analyst, who hasn’t
been charged with any crimes, the witnesses have agreed to plead
guilty and are cooperating in the hope of receiving a reduced
sentence, prosecutors said.  In July 2009, Lee recorded conversations in which Longoria
gave him inside information about AMD, the U.S. said in its
complaint. The new complaint also identifies Chu as having
worked at Fleishman’s firm as a liaison “to consultants and
other sources of information in Asia.”  In January, former McKinsey & Co. director  Anil Kumar 
pleaded guilty to criminal charges, saying that he leaked
advance information to Rajaratnam about AMD’s acquisition of ATI
Technologies Inc. in 2006, which Rajaratnam used to make $19
million for Galleon.  Bharara thanked Apple, Flextronics, AMD, Taiwan
Semiconductor and Dell for their assistance in the U.S. probe.
The investigation is continuing, he said.  “You have to imagine it will go in the direction of the
funds,” said Miller, the former federal prosecutor.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Van Voris  in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 