-- New York Tax Collections $146 Million Ahead of Forecast, DiNapoli Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 2010-12-17T19:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/new-york-tax-collections-146-million-ahead-of-forecast-dinapoli-says.html
New York’s  tax collections increased
$146 million more than forecast in the first eight months of the
fiscal year, according to a  report  by state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli.   The November report precedes a critical period for tax
collections, when bonus payments by Wall Street firms make
December and January the two biggest months of the year,
according to budget  documents .  Income- and sales-tax revenue may increase slower than
anticipated in coming months, DiNapoli said in a  statement .  “The pace of growth will need to double in the last four
months to meet year-end projections,” DiNapoli said. “There
are already indications that certain revenues will not
materialize.”  Budget predictions assumed an additional $250 million of
taxes on capital gains “based on the incorrect assumption that
the Bush tax cuts would expire,” DiNapoli said.  DiNapoli said last month that bonuses may fall from a
year ago, and create a deficit of $1 billion in the current
year. The Division of Budget projected a 13 percent increase in
bonuses to $39.7 billion and a gap this year of $315 million.  If nothing is done about the shortfall in this year’s
$135.3 billion budget, next year’s deficit may be more than $11
billion, according to DiNapoli. The Division of Budget  estimates 
next year’s imbalance between spending and revenue at $9.3
billion.  Personal Income Taxes  Personal income taxes, the state’s largest revenue source
after federal aid, grew 4.3 percent over the past eight months,
compared with a year earlier, according to a  table  accompanying
the monthly report. To meet budget projections, the increase
during the last four months of the fiscal year must be 6.5
percent more than the year-earlier period, the table shows.  Sales-tax revenue, which rose 8.5 percent in the past eight
months from the same period a year ago, must rise more than 12
percent in the last four months to meet the budget forecasts,
the report said. New York’s fiscal year ends March 31.  Spending was $1.44 billion less than projected as of Nov.
1, the comptroller said. “Some of the local assistance spending
didn’t go out, though it will eventually,” said Emily DeSantis,
a spokeswoman for DiNapoli. Local assistance payments include
state aid to schools and other local governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Quint  in Albany, New York, at   mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  