-- Nigeria Withdraws Charges Against Cheney, Halliburton
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2010-12-17T16:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/nigeria-withdraws-charges-against-cheney-halliburton.html
Nigeria withdrew corruption charges
against former U.S. Vice President  Dick Cheney  and companies
including  Halliburton Co.  after the company agreed to pay a fine
and repatriate funds, a spokesman for the  Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission  said.  “The charges against Dick Cheney and all the others were
dropped today,”  Femi Babafemi  said in a telephone interview in
Abuja, the capital.  Halliburton, where Cheney was chief executive officer until
2000, offered to pay $120 million in fines and repatriate an
additional $130 million to Nigeria, he said. A person who
answered a call to Halliburton’s Houston office said no one was
available to comment.  Nigerian  prosecutors filed charges on Dec. 8 for alleged
bribery against Cheney; Albert “Jack” Stanley, ex-chairman of
KBR Inc., a former unit of Halliburton; current CEO William Utt
and Halliburton CEO  David Lesar , according to court documents.
Companies charged include  Technip SA  of France, Snamprogetti
SpA, a unit of Eni SpA, KBR and  JGC Corp.  of Japan.  Nigeria, Africa’s biggest crude producer, alleges that the
companies, which were part of group known as TSKJ, paid $180
million in bribes to Nigerian officials between 1994 and 2004 to
win a $6 billion liquefied natural gas plant contract.  U.S. Accords  Di Giovanni Gianni , a spokesman for Eni said by e-mail
today that the company has no comment, while Gabriela Segura, a
KBR spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. A spokesman for Technip didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  KBR agreed in February 2009 to pay a $402 million fine in
the U.S. after admitting it bribed Nigerian officials, while
Halliburton paid $177 million to settle allegations by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission without admitting wrongdoing.  Nigeria arrested at least 23 officials last month,
including 11 from Halliburton and the CEO of Saipem
Construction, a local unit of Rome-based Eni. Those detained
were all freed on bail on Nov. 29.  Eni, Technip and JGC are in talks with Nigerian prosecutors
to settle the corruption charges, the country’s anti-graft
agency said on Dec. 7.  Technip took a charge of 245 million euros ($342 million)
related to its stake in TSKJ and discussed “resolution of all
potential claims” with the U.S. Justice Department and the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Paris-based company said
on Feb. 12.  An aide of former Nigerian President  Olusegun Obasanjo  was
charged with six counts of money-laundering in Abuja on Oct. 13
in connection with the alleged payment of bribes.  The case is Federal Republic of Nigeria v. Halliburton and
others, CV/435/10, High Court of Justice, Abuja Judicial
Division (Abuja).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elisha Bala-Gbogbo  in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net . 