-- Nigeria's Ruling Party's Governors Support Goodluck Jonathan For Election
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 2010-12-17T12:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/nigeria-s-ruling-party-governors-back-goodluck-jonathan-for-election.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
received the backing of 20 state governors to win the ruling
People’s Democratic Party’s nomination at primaries on Jan. 13.  The governors, all members of the PDP, said Jonathan should
serve “for a period of four years only” if he wins the
election set for April 9, according to a statement handed to
reporters yesterday after a meeting in Abuja, the capital. Six
PDP governors didn’t sign the statement, and Nigeria’s remaining
10 governors are members of the opposition.  Jonathan became president of Nigeria, Africa’s top oil
producer and most populous country, succeeding  Umaru Yar’Adua , a
Muslim northerner who died in May 5, three years into his first
term. As a southern Christian, his candidacy is contrary to an
unwritten party rule to rotate the country’s top office between
the mainly Muslim north and the predominantly Christian south
for two four-year terms.  Jonathan’s decision to contest in next year’s vote has
divided the PDP, with a group of northern politicians backing
former Vice President  Atiku Abubakar  to challenge the president
for the party’s nomination. The state governors supporting
Jonathan cut across the West African nation’s regional and
religious divide and described his candidacy yesterday as a
continuation of his joint ticket with Yar’Adua.  Former military ruler  Ibrahim Babangida , who dropped out of
the race to back Abubakar, threatened last week to quit the PDP
if a northerner isn’t chosen as its candidate.  Peaceful Change  Abubakar added to tension over the dispute on Dec. 15 when
he told supporters in Abuja that “those who make peaceful
change impossible make violent change inevitable,” in reference
to Jonathan’s candidacy.  The State Security Services, the security police, told
politicians today to tone down the rhetoric.  Politicians should “henceforth desist from making
unguarded statements which have the capacity to undermine and
subvert the stability of the nation,” SSS spokeswoman Marilyn
Ogar said in an e-mailed statement. “Appropriate sanctions will
be brought to bear heavily on any person found violating this
warning.”  Nigeria has suffered periodic outbursts of religious and
communal violence that have claimed more than 13,000 lives since
1999, according to the Brussels-based  International Crisis
Group .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 