-- No More Money for `Main Street of Texas' When Build America Program Ends
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2010-12-17T17:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/no-more-money-for-texas-main-street-when-build-americas-end.html
Public projects such as $105 million
of buildings at Miami University in Ohio and fixes for a highway
known as the Main Street of Texas are likely to cost more after
Dec. 31, when the federally subsidized Build America Bonds
program is set to expire.  States and municipalities have sold $185 billion of the
securities since their debut in April 2009 as part of President
 Barack Obama ’s economic stimulus. By paying 35 percent of the
interest cost on the taxable bonds, the U.S. government may have
saved borrowers at least $24 billion in today’s dollars compared
with traditional tax-exempt debt, based on an April  Treasury
Department report .  “Getting by without it is going to be very difficult,”
Pennsylvania Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat whose state has
sold $1.2 billion of the debt, said in a telephone interview.
“States and municipal governments need all the help they can
get if we’re going to keep investing in the country’s
infrastructure.”  Borrowers are rushing to sell almost $5 billion of Build
Americas this week, the most since the program began, to capture
the savings. An extension was omitted from a bill that continues
personal tax cuts, dooming what was the fastest-growing part of
the $2.86 trillion municipal bond market.  Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican who becomes
chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in
January, said he wants to keep the Build America program alive.  Near Guarantee  “I can almost guarantee a reiteration,” Mica said in an
interview in Washington today. He said the program may be part
of a measure he intends to introduce that would include spending
for roads, transit and rail.  Build Americas were created last year as local governments
faced what the National League of Cities said was the biggest
decline in general-fund revenue since 1986. They were meant to
sustain employment by funding infrastructure work after the
economy lost more than 3.6 million jobs in 2008.  Obama’s $814 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
may have produced or saved as many as 3.3 million jobs in the
three months that ended in June, the Congressional Budget Office
said in an August report that didn’t break out employment
related to Build Americas.  Work in Pennsylvania  Pennsylvania  created about 40,000 jobs with the Build
Americas it sold, said Gary Tuma, a Rendell spokesman. The
state’s  unemployment rate  of 8.8 percent in October, below the
U.S. average of 9.6 percent that month, is up from 5.8 percent
two years earlier.  Pennsylvania will use a $466.6 million Build America sale
this week on a project to repair thousands of bridges, creating
as many as 20,000 jobs, said Rendell, who oversees a $28 billion
annual budget. The state sold the 20-year general-obligation
Build Americas on Dec. 15 to yield 5.86 percent, or 1.3
percentage points more than comparable Treasuries.  The  extra yield  investors demand to buy Build Americas
instead of 30-year Treasuries reached a four-month high of 1.99
percentage points on Dec. 7 in the face of increased supply,
according to a Wells Fargo index. The difference was 1.97
percentage points on Dec. 16.  The April Treasury report said the $90 billion of Build
Americas sold up to then will save issuers $12 billion in
present-value borrowing costs compared with tax-exempts,
including underwriting fees and net interest costs. Another $95
billion has been issued since, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Road Repairs  A $1.5 billion Build America sale by Texas in July will be
used in part to refurbish 90 miles (145 kilometers) of
 Interstate 35 , which links San Antonio to Dallas and carries
more than 200,000 commuters daily as the state’s “Main
Street,” said Kelli Petras, a transportation department
spokeswoman.  “We’ve been able to push a lot of really good
transportation projects out the door” with Build Americas,
Petras said.  The state has issued more than $2 billion of Build America
Bonds since August 2009, saving $550 million over 30 years
because of the federal subsidy, Petras said.  Student Buildings  Miami University  in Oxford, Ohio, issued $105.4 million on
Dec. 13 to replace a 50-year-old student center and build new
dining halls, David Creamer, vice president of finance, said in
a telephone interview. He recommended Build Americas over tax-
exempts because the university would save $18 million over 25
years.  They “provided more swing space” for the university’s
budget because less money will go to pay back lenders, Creamer
said.  In Washington, D.C., Build America Bonds paid for $900
million of projects, said Lasana Mack, the district’s treasurer.
Money will be used to maintain Civil War records and artifacts,
open a new dog park, renovate prison-cell doors and restore city
buses.  The district’s $181 million sale this week will go toward
building schools, libraries and parks, Mack said.  “The borrowing costs were lower, so we could do more with
our money,” Mack said. “The program was innovative. We’re
sorry to see it go.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Ashley Lutz  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  