-- Norman Rockwell’s Tea Party America Exults in London: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-12-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/norman-rockwell-s-tea-party-america-exults-in-london-show-martin-gayford.html
Arguably, the two most celebrated
U.S. visual artists of the 20th century were not  Andy Warhol  and
 Jackson Pollock , but  Walt Disney  and  Norman Rockwell .  In his heyday, Rockwell (1894-1978) had what every artist
dreams: an audience of millions, instantly, for each new work.  For almost half a century, from 1916 to 1963, Rockwell was
the cover artist at “The Saturday Evening Post.” All 323 of
the Post covers he produced during those years are hung in a new
exhibition, “Norman Rockwell’s America” at the  Dulwich Picture
Gallery  together with an array of his oil paintings and studies.  At the time, this was mass-media stuff. The Post was
selling to 3.3 million households at its peak in the 1940s --
then the largest magazine circulation in history, according to
the exhibition catalog. Rockwell presented an image of the U.S.
that’s both instantly recognizable and gloriously unfashionable.  His nation is small town, folksy, cheery, sentimental,
middle class, wholesome, family orientated, heterosexual and
patriotic. During World War II he produced a number of
propaganda posters, including “Freedom From Want” (1943) in
which grandparents place an enormous roast turkey on the family
table.  All around there are smiling faces and no booze: In
Rockwell’s America everyone smokes, but alcohol is seldom
touched. He was also strong on Yule. There are several Father
Christmases in this show, including a celebrated 1929
advertising image: “No Christmas Problem Now -- Santa With a
Parker Pen.”  Tea Party Dream  It’s easy to see why some people love Rockwell, and others
can’t stand his work. This, you might say, is the America that
the Tea Party dreams of. Rockwell, as the critic  Robert Hughes 
put it in “American Visions: The Epic History of Art in
America,” “was homelier than apple pie, more American than the
flag, gentler and more affirmative than Dad.”  Heartwarming or repulsive, is Rockwell’s painting serious
art? That’s the most interesting question raised by the
exhibition, and the answer is that he drives a Model T Ford
right through that distinction.  In some ways, Rockwell was a throwback. His art is a
continuation of 19th-century academic painting of the when-did-
you-last-see-your-father type and also not-very-funny cartoons
like those in Victorian magazines. He had roots in 17th-century
Holland. One of his most famous Post covers, “Shuffleton’s
Barbershop” turns out to be derived from Vermeer.  Photoshop Precursor  Rockwell was old-fashioned, yet also a man of his times.
The covers were the product of a technological moment: when the
paintings could be reproduced in high-quality cover but
magazines still used plenty of hand-drawn illustration. Now, of
course, photographs have replaced oil paintings on magazines.
Still, Rockwell’s art was close to photo-realism, and all
contemporary covers are Photoshop, which means, to some extent,
redrawn.  He was mainly a commercial artist; but then Warhol started
out that way, and much American art, from Pop to  Jeff Koons , is
interwoven with popular culture. In technique, Rockwell was
close to his “serious” contemporary  Edward Hopper . The
difference was that Hopper emphasized the melancholy isolation
of American life, Rockwell more the cozy happiness.  When you look closely, though, there are shadows in
Rockwell’s work too. The lonely salesman playing cards in his
hotel room in “Solitaire” (1950) is a Hopper subject. Only his
funny expression and Rockwell’s far less beautiful handling of
paint are different. According to the catalog, there were
shadows in Rockwell’s life. His second wife was an alcoholic and
both of them suffered from depression. That’s very American too:
the upbeat exterior, the sadness within.  “Norman Rockwell’s America” is at the Dulwich Picture
Gallery, London, through March 27, 2011, sponsored by the Wall
Street Journal Europe and Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.
Information:  http://www.dulwichpicturegallery.org.uk/ .  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by Lucian Freud.”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 