-- North Korean Nuclear Plant Targeted for UN Probe, Envoy Says
-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 2010-12-17T20:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/north-korean-nuclear-plant-targeted-for-un-probe-as-sanctions-may-tighten.html
A committee of the  United Nations 
Security Council has ordered an investigation of a newly
reported nuclear facility in North Korea and may need to tighten
sanctions on the government in Pyongyang to block further
progress, a council diplomat said.  The committee to monitor implementation of the sanctions
acted in response to a report from Stanford University professor
Siegfried Hecker, who visited the previously unknown facility on
Nov. 12, according to the diplomat, who was authorized to speak
on condition of not being identified because the committee’s
meeting are confidential. The committee, with China’s
acquiescence, called for the probe at a Dec. 6 meeting and
received a confidential briefing by Hecker on Dec. 15.  The facility at Yongbyon is intended to provide low-
enriched uranium for a light-water reactor for the “peaceful
purpose of meeting electricity demand,” the official Korean
Central News Agency said on Nov. 30. It was the first time North
Korea acknowledged the program revealed by Hecker on Nov. 20
following his visit to North Korea.  A UN panel of experts on nuclear proliferation was asked to
look into Hecker’s observations and report to the Security
Council committee by mid-January, according to the diplomat. The
panel of experts was appointed by the  Security Council  last year
to assess implementation of sanctions intended to block North
Korea’s development of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.  One Bomb a Year  Hecker told the committee that for the facility to be
reconfigured to produce the highly enriched uranium needed for
nuclear weapons, North Korea would likely have to import high
strength steel and aluminum alloys, valves, pumps and other
materials, the diplomat said. That might compel the U.S. and its
Western allies on the Security Council to seek agreement for
adding to the list of materials North Korea is barred from
importing, according to the diplomat.  Reconfigured to produce highly enriched uranium, it could
produce one nuclear bomb per year, Hecker reportedly said.  The Security Council’s consideration of how to deal with
the revelation of the new facility comes as  Bill Richardson , the
Democratic governor of New Mexico and a former U.S. ambassador
to the UN, visits Pyongyang for talks with North Korean
officials. Richardson arrived yesterday, according to a one-
sentence KCNA dispatch.  His trip is “a private visit,” State Department spokesman
 Philip J. Crowley  said on Dec. 8, adding that the governor
wasn’t “carrying any particular message from the United States
government.”  Denuclearization Talks  In a separate statement yesterday, KCNA said North Korea is
open to all proposals for denuclearization talks but won’t
“beg” for dialogue.  UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon , a former South Korean
foreign minister, said today it was “quite alarming” that
North Korea has not implemented previous agreements on
denuclearization on the Korean peninsula.  Hecker reported after his visit that he couldn’t confirm
that 2,000 centrifuges at the facility were working, and
expressed doubt about North Korea’s assertions that it built the
facility over the past 20 months and that all its components
were manufactured in the country.  It was highly unlikely that North Korea manufactured the
equipment needed to build the facility, Hecker told the
committee, according to the diplomat. It is more likely that
North Korea imported some of the materials, assembled parts of
the facility at other locations over the course of many years,
and transferred them to Yongbyon, he told the Security Council
committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  