-- North Korea Warns South to Cancel Artillery Drill, Threatens Retaliation
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2010-12-17T10:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/north-korea-warns-south-to-cancel-artillery-drill-threatens-retaliation.html
North Korea warned the South to
cancel an artillery drill that it said will provoke stronger
retaliation than shelling last month that killed four people.  Retaliation to the drill will be “deadlier” than on Nov.
23, state-run Korean Central News Agency said in a statement
today. That barrage of Yeonpyeong Island killed two civilians
and two soldiers, shattered the windows of a school during
classes, set 30 houses ablaze and scorched 25 hectares of land.  While South Korea has said such maritime firing exercises
are routine, North Korea called the South’s Nov. 23 exercise a
“reckless military provocation.” U.S. State Department
spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said the planned drill “is a
perfectly legitimate step” by the South.  The exercise won’t be canceled and will go ahead some time
between tomorrow and Dec. 21 as planned, said a spokesman at
South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff today, declining to be named
because of military policy. About 20 U.S. military personnel
will be sent to the island to assist, said a South Korean
defense ministry official who declined to be named, citing
government policy.  A warning for civilian ships was posted today on the
 website  of Korea Hydrographic and Oceanographic Administration.  North Korea’s firing on the Yeonpyeong fishing community
and military outpost last month was the first shelling of South
Korean soil since the 1950-1953 war. The North doesn’t recognize
the western sea border demarcated by the United Nations after
the war and demands it should be drawn further south to include
Yeonpyeong and neighboring islands in North Korean waters.  “No one in the world would allow those who drew a line
inside other’s court, without its owner’s knowledge, and insist
it belongs to them and shamelessly conduct saber-rattling to
preserve it,” today’s statement from KCNA said.  Retaliation to any further attack would include airstrikes,
Defense Minister  Kim Kwan Jin  said on Dec. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  