-- Nouriel Roubini Purchases $5.5 Million Condo in East Village of Manhattan
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2010-12-17T18:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/nouriel-roubini-purchases-5-5-million-condo-in-east-village-of-manhattan.html
Nouriel Roubini , the New York
University economist who predicted the global financial crisis,
bought a $5.5 million condominium in Manhattan, according to
public records.  Roubini took out a $2.99 million mortgage to buy the condo
on East First Street, according to New York City Department of
Finance records. The "sun-blasted" apartment atop a former steel
warehouse is a 3,700-square-foot (340-square-meter) triplex
penthouse, according to listings website StreetEasy.com.  “He is making a statement, definitely, in the rent-versus-
buy argument,” Sofia Song, vice president of research for
 StreetEasy , said in an interview. “For his own personal
situation, it makes sense to buy. It might prompt others to
potentially start looking.”  Roubini, who has said there is still a risk the U.S.
economy could slide back into recession, said last month that
another “disaster” will happen if U.S. home values fall again
and prime-mortgage defaults increase.  “If  house prices  are going to fall another 5 to 10
percent, another 8 million households are going to be in
negative equity,” Roubini said Nov. 2 at a conference in Cape
Town. “We are going to have another nasty crisis. That’s going
to happen unless we do something about it. Forget about
subprime, look at prime.”  Adjustable-Rate Mortgage  Roubini, the chairman and founder of international
consulting firm  Roubini Global Economics LLC , took out an
adjustable-rate mortgage that has a fixed rate of 3.625 percent
for five years, according to city property records. The rate on
the loan, which runs through 2041, will change in January 2016
and once each year after that.  In Manhattan, sales of luxury apartments, defined as the
top 10 percent by price, jumped 19 percent in the third quarter
to 266 transactions, according to New York-appraisal firm  Miller
Samuel Inc.  Their median price climbed 12.5 percent to $4.39
million. Roubini’s purchase is more expensive than 96 percent of
all Manhattan sales in the third quarter, said  Jonathan Miller ,
president of Miller Samuel.  “Wow,” Miller said. “One of the most pessimistic
economists who called it right, called the housing bubble. At
first glance this could easily be taken as a sign that things
are better.”  The three-bedroom, three-and-a-half-bathroom apartment
includes a 50-bottle temperature-controlled wine refrigerator, a
“custom walnut wet bar,” and a wrap terrace “ideal for
sunbathing, stargazing and dining al fresco,” according to the
property listing.  ‘Amazing Home’  “Connected by a custom cantilevered steel staircase, each
level of this amazing home offers something unique and
unforgettable,” reads the  listing  by Richard Orenstein, a
Halstead Property broker. “On the first floor, you’ll find a
massive living/dining area bathed in southern light with 11-foot
beamed ceilings, exposed brick walls, a wood-burning fireplace,
and light from a 50-foot expanse of oversized windows.”  Roubini, reached on his cell phone today, said he was in a
meeting and didn’t comment on the condo purchase. He didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail sent to his NYU address.
Orenstein, the Halstead broker, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  