-- Obama's Health-Care Law Challenged by Cuccinelli Channeling Patrick Henry
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-12-17T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/obama-s-health-care-law-challenged-by-cuccinelli-channeling-patrick-henry.html
Ken Cuccinelli , the Virginia
attorney general who brought the first successful legal
challenge to President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, displays
his political lineage on his Christmas card.  It features a photograph of the 42-year-old, his wife and
seven children, standing before  historic St. John’s Church  in
Richmond where Revolutionary War leader  Patrick Henry  delivered
his “Give me liberty or give me death” speech. Cuccinelli
said the backdrop seemed appropriate.  Obama signed the legislation March 23, 235 years to the
day after Henry’s call to arms, and Cuccinelli says he also is
fighting to free Americans from the excesses of government.  The health law “epitomizes the incredible growth of
government power and the overreach of federal power into every
aspect of society in ways that aren’t legal or
constitutional,” Cuccinelli, who was elected attorney general
in 2009 after eight years as a Republican state senator, said
in an interview.  In his first year as attorney general, the proponent of
limited government and  low taxes  and anti-abortion advocate
also has challenged the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
over its finding that greenhouse gas emissions are a health
danger.  After Obama signed the health-care law, it took Cuccinelli
15 minutes to file his lawsuit charging that Congress has the
power only to tax, and can’t force people to participate in a
market. This week, a federal judge agreed with his assertion
that the measure unconstitutionally requires Americans to
maintain a minimum level of health insurance.  National Prominence  The case, which is all but certain to reach the Supreme
Court, might make Cuccinelli a national figure in his party.  “He has nailed a major scalp to the wall,” said  Richard Land , leader of the Southern Baptist Convention, based in
Nashville. “This puts him on the map.”  The ruling “is very helpful to him politically,” said
former Republican Representative  Tom Davis  of Virginia, who led
his party’s recruitment efforts in Congress from 1998 to 2002.
“I don’t think his career will end as attorney general.”  Bob Holsworth , the founder of the nonpartisan website
Virginia Tomorrow, which tracks trends in state politics, said
Cuccinelli is “becoming a conservative version of  Andrew Cuomo 
and  Eliot Spitzer ,” both of whom were elected New York
governors after stints as attorney general. “Where they made
reputations suing companies, he is suing the federal
government.”  Personal Agenda  Some analysts say Cuccinelli is expanding the role of his
office to push a personal agenda.  “He’s a very ambitious guy and has been for a very long
time,” said  Mark Rozell , a professor of public policy at
George Mason University in Arlington, Virginia. “I highly
doubt he’s in it merely for the legalistic side of the issue.”  He’s already using the victory to raise money. The day of
the judge’s Dec. 13 ruling, Cuccinelli’s  campaign website 
started an appeal: “A major health-care victory today, but the
liberal assault has already begun. Donate now!”  Cuccinelli received a standing ovation at Virginia’s Tea
Party Convention in October.  “He’s a bit of a rock star in the movement right now,”
said Chip Tarbutton, president of the Roanoke Tea Party in
Virgina.  Home Schooling  Cuccinelli earned a degree in mechanical engineering from
the University of Virginia and studied law at George Mason
University’s School of Law and Economics, where he also earned
a master’s degree in international relations. Cuccinelli says
he likes to read -- he just finished a biography of Patrick
Henry -- and skeet shoot. A practicing Catholic who attended
parochial high school, he said his children, age 1 to 15, are
home-schooled through the sixth grade.  “I would recommend it to anybody,” he said.  The challenge to the health-care law isn’t the first time
Cuccinelli has drawn attention. In his first year in office, he
also demanded that the University of Virginia turn over
documents related to research by a global warming scientist to
determine if grants were obtained improperly.  On his  website , Cuccinelli says the science and data that
contributed to the EPA’s ruling on the harm caused by
greenhouse gases aren’t “simply unreliable, but involve enough
mendacity to warrant the label ‘Climategate.’”  Discrimination Measure  He stirred controversy on Virginia campuses in March when
he sent a letter to public universities and colleges saying
they can’t prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual
orientation because that authority rests with the state
legislature. That prompted Republican Governor  Bob McDonnell  to
issue a directive banning discrimination against gay state
employees.  “He’s using the office to push an ideological political
agenda,” said Paul Goldman, former chairman of the Virginia
Democratic Party.  As a state lawmaker, Cuccinelli supported initiatives to
change the U.S. Constitution so children born in the U.S. to
illegal immigrants wouldn’t be granted citizenship; deny
unemployment benefits to workers who were fired for not
speaking English, and limit abortions.  Cuccinelli says his actions are guided by legal principles
and not thoughts of his political future.  “We make decisions on how to proceed in this office first
based on the law,” he said. “And that starts first and
foremost with the Constitution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 