-- Obama Signs $858 Billion Tax-Cut to Revive Economy
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-12-17T21:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/obama-signs-858-billion-tax-cut-extension-to-revive-economy-spur-hiring.html
President  Barack Obama  signed into
law an $858 billion bill extending for two years Bush-era tax
cuts to boost a fragile economy and add jobs.  “It’s a good deal for the American people,” Obama said at
a signing ceremony in Washington. “Putting more money in the
pockets of families most likely to spend it, helping businesses
to grow, that’s how we’re going to spark demand, spur hiring and
strengthen our economy in the new year.”  Obama overcame resistance from congressional Democrats and
labor leaders to broker a tax-cut deal with Republicans, who’ll
take control of the House in January and gain Senate seats after
last month’s elections.  “Candidly speaking, there are some elements of this
legislation that I don’t like,” Obama said. “That’s the nature
of compromise.”  The president signed the measure after meeting privately
with about a dozen labor leaders, including AFL-CIO President
 Richard Trumka . Organized labor leaders opposed the tax-cut
deal. The meeting was closed to press coverage.  Final action came late yesterday when the House voted
277-148 to pass the $858 billion package, sending it to the
White House. Before the final vote, lawmakers defeated an
amendment offered by some Democrats opposed to a Republican-
backed  estate-tax  proposal they said favored the wealthy. Obama
had lobbied wavering House lawmakers by telephone for much of
the week,  Bill Burton , a White House spokesman, said.  The plan extends all Bush-era  tax rates  through 2012,
guaranteeing a fight over taxes during that year’s presidential
campaign. It continues expanded  jobless aid  to the long-term
unemployed for 13 months and reduces payroll taxes for workers
by two percentage points during 2011.  Double-Dip Recession  Failure to pass the bill would “cause grave economic harm
and possibly send us back into a double-dip recession,” said
Representative  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican who will
become majority leader in January.  The Senate passed the tax-cut plan 81-19 on Dec. 15 with
broad support from Democrats and Republicans.  The Business Roundtable, a group of chief executives, said
in a statement that the payroll tax reductions, fresh investment
incentives and the certainty of tax rates would help increase
jobs and reduce the jobless rate.  “It will provide a substantial boost to growth in 2011;
the  unemployment rate  for the year is going to average about 8.7
percent, as a result of the tax bill, compared to about 9.8
percent we were expecting before the tax bill,” said Gus
Faucher, director of macroeconomics at Moody’s Analytics in West
Chester, Pennsylvania. The U.S. unemployment rate was 9.8
percent in November.  Estate Tax  Under the plan negotiated with Obama, the estate tax next
year would have a top rate of 35 percent to be applied after an
exemption of $5 million per person. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi 
of California, who will become minority leader in January and
wasn’t part of final negotiations on the measure, said she was
troubled by the cost of the agreement, especially for the estate
tax breaks.  Many House Democrats favored a top estate tax rate of 45
percent with a $3.5 million per person tax-free allowance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Roger Runningen  in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  