-- Obama Seeks to Make Amends With Unions, Democratic Activists Over Tax Deal
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2010-12-17T15:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/obama-seeks-to-make-amends-with-unions-activists-over-tax-deal.html
President  Barack Obama  today will
meet with union leaders to try to heal a relationship strained
by his agreement to extend Bush-era  tax cuts . Behind the scenes,
the White House is waging a broader campaign among Democratic
Party loyalists to undo damage over the deal.  The administration is making an “all hands on deck”
effort to contact party activists angry over the accord,  Jared Bernstein , Vice President  Joseph Biden ’s chief economic adviser,
said before the U.S. House last night passed the $858 billion
bill. Bernstein has made phone calls and held meetings with
activists to defend a deal with Republicans that continues tax
reductions for all Americans, including  top earners .  “The president is trying to build consensus among labor
leaders for his compromise tax policy” said  Amy B. Dean , a
former official with the AFL-CIO labor federation. The
administration has “no problem reaching out to the labor
movement when they need labor to be part of their electoral
coalition. But they quickly forget that labor has a role to play
in their governing coalition.”  Obama today will sign the bill, which extends for two years
all Bush-era tax cuts. Before the House voted 277-148 for final
passage, lawmakers defeated an amendment crafted by some
Democrats to express displeasure with the legislation and
especially a Republican-backed proposal to cut the estate tax.  ‘Fight Harder’  The president may find union leaders hard to win over
during today’s meeting. In a statement after the House vote,
AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  said “this deal comes at a
terrible price” and vowed to “redouble” efforts and “fight
harder” on behalf of working people.  In a Dec. 15 statement Trumka said he wanted the House to
change the tax agreement to eliminate what he called an
“indefensible” reduction in the estate tax, which he said was
“simply another bonus to the super-rich.”  Obama and Labor Secretary  Hilda Solis  are scheduled to meet
at 2 p.m. in the White House’s Roosevelt Room with labor
leaders, in discussions the White House says will focus on  jobs 
and the economy. Among those attending are Trumka; United
Steelworkers President  Leo Gerard ; American Federation of
Teachers President  Randi Weingarten ; Service Employees
International Union President  Mary Kay Henry , and United Auto
Workers President  Bob King .  Investors Cheered  Obama’s Dec. 6 announcement that he would agree to renew
the Bush tax cuts in exchange for extending unemployment
insurance and lowering the payroll tax boosted stocks, with the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rising to a two-year high in early
trading the next day.  Liberal activists responded to the deal by lashing out at
the president.  “President Obama let down millions of voters who trusted
him when he said he would fight for his core campaign promise --
ending the Bush tax cuts for the rich,” Adam Green, co-founder
of the  Progressive Change Campaign Committee , said in a Dec. 6
e-mail to the grassroots group, which claims 650,000 members.  Such activists are bound to get angrier as the president
“governs more from the center” over the next two years, said
 Mark Penn , a pollster who worked for former President  Bill Clinton . Penn said Obama must “work with the independents, and
the vital center and also, at the end of the day, rally the
base” to get re-elected.  ‘Like Gnats’  Not everyone considers liberal angst a serious problem.
Angry progressives are “like gnats” who won’t be able to stop
Obama from being re-elected, said Democratic strategist  James Carville . Carville said there isn’t a lot progressives can do to
hurt the president other than “run around.”  Still, enthusiasm among young voters, among Obama’s biggest
backers, is slipping. A Bloomberg National Poll conducted Dec.
4-7 showed that just 51 percent of respondents under 35 give the
president a positive job-approval rating.  And John Aravosis, who runs  AMERICAblog , a website that
focuses on gay rights, said the left may not be as motivated in
2012, which could hurt Democratic fundraising. Obama brought in
a record $749 million for his 2008 campaign, Federal Election
Commission records show, with 54 percent coming in donations of
$200 or less.  In the 2010 elections, gay advocates and political action
committees linked to gay causes gave less than half of the $2
million they did in the 2006 midterms, according to the  Center
for Responsive Politics.   ‘Don’t Give’  Aravosis helped create the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Give”
campaign calling for a  boycott  of donations to the Democratic
National Committee, Obama’s campaign, and  Organizing for
America , the president’s political arm outside the White House
until they “keep their promises to the gay community.” Among
them are the repeal of the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell”
law.  The White House is taking these concerns seriously, said
Bernstein, who spent more than a decade at the  Economic Policy
Institute , which focuses on  lower-income  Americans. He’s among
officials, including Biden and budget director  Jack Lew ,
dispatched to quell concern among Democrats.  Today’s meeting with union leaders is part of that effort.  In the past two years, Obama and the Democratic Congress
delivered some labor-backed legislation, such as the health-care
overhaul and a law making it easier for women to sue employers
for wage discrimination.  Card Check  On other issues, like the “card-check” bill, which would
make it easier for workers to join a union, labor has been
frustrated that Democrats failed to overcome Republican
opposition.  Labor leaders have voiced opposition to the tax-cut deal
since its announcement. “If we made the choice to invest in job
creation, the tax breaks for the wealthy could get unemployment
under 8 percent by the end of 2012,” Henry of the Service
Employees International Union said in an e-mailed statement the
day after the president announced the deal.  Carville said the White House shouldn’t be too concerned
about the pushback from some of the party loyalists.  “There’s a lot of time between now and November of
2012,” he said. “It’s not that a lot can happen, it’s that a
lot’s going to happen.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Kate Andersen Brower  in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  