-- Obama Will Lean on Pakistan, Afghan Tribal Chiefs to Help Defeat Taliban
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2010-12-17T10:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/obama-will-lean-on-pakistan-afghan-tribal-chiefs-to-help-defeat-taliban.html
The Obama administration will rely
more heavily on Pakistan and local power-brokers in Afghanistan
as the U.S. seeks to turn “significant progress” in the war
against al-Qaeda and the Taliban into long-term gains.  President  Barack Obama , announcing the results of a review
of his Afghanistan war strategy, said yesterday that the U.S.
will focus more intensely on strengthening Afghan government
services, drawing more insurgent fighters back into the fold and
shutting the havens that harbor militants across the border in
Pakistan.  “In pursuit of our core goal, we are seeing significant
progress,” Obama told reporters at the White House, just months
after the last of the 30,000 additional troops he authorized for
the war arrived on the ground. Even so, he said, “in many
places, the gains we’ve made are still fragile and reversible.”  Obama reiterated his timetable for phasing out the U.S.
combat role in Afghanistan by 2014. “We will begin the
transition of responsibility to Afghans and start reducing
American forces next July,” he said.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who joined Obama at the
White House, said the policy doesn’t need to be changed based on
waning public support for the war shown in U.S. opinion polls.  “I’m well aware of the popular concern and I understand
it,” she said. “But I don’t think leaders, and certainly this
president, will make decisions that are matters of life and
death and the future security of our nation based on polling.”  ‘Many Questions Unanswered’  Lawmakers are likely to press the Obama administration on
the withdrawal timetable and the prospects for success.
Representative  Ike Skelton , the departing Missouri Democrat and
chairman of the House Armed Services Committee who has supported
Obama’s strategy, said that “the report leaves many questions
unanswered with regard to the way ahead.”  The U.S. and its partners in Afghanistan aim to cut off the
flow of fighters and weapons across the Pakistani border and to
strengthen the Afghan government, its police and its soldiers
enough to hand over control starting in July. Obama won time to
complete the job when leaders of the  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  last month endorsed a goal of 2014 for Afghans to
take the lead on security.  “The question now is how to make the gains sustainable and
durable to enable a responsible drawdown of troops and
resources,” Clare Lockhart, director of the  Institute of State
Effectiveness  in Washington and a contributor to previous U.S.
assessments of conditions in Afghanistan, said in an e-mail.  Exceeding Expectations  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , who appeared with Obama and
Clinton at the White House, said the Taliban “control far less
territory today than they did a year ago.” The progress made in
the last few months “has exceeded my expectations,” he said.  Gates specified the end of 2014 as the target date for
Afghans to take the lead on security, saying the training for
police and soldiers is “ahead of schedule.”  The pace of the drawdown remains a question mark. Gates
said it’s still unclear how many of the 97,000 U.S. troops and
almost 50,000 foreign forces might be removed in July.  U.S. Admiral  Mike Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, told reporters today in Kabul that the “right strategy”
is in place “to disrupt, dismantle and defeat al-Qaeda and to
reverse the momentum of the Taliban.”  Obama also confirmed that NATO will maintain a “long-term
commitment to training and advising Afghan forces” after 2014.  The strategy review showed that “for these security gains
to be sustained over time, there is an urgent need for political
and economic progress in Afghanistan,” the president said.  Karzai Government  The need to persuade Afghans to support legitimate
government over the Taliban may revive the debate over how to
balance support of President  Hamid Karzai ’s government with the
need to draw on local authorities and tribal leaders.  Karzai in the past has objected to U.S. ties with local
leaders as an attempt to undermine his authority. The resulting
emphasis by the U.S. on working with and through Karzai has
worsened corruption, said  Robert L. Grenier , CIA station chief
in Islamabad from 1999 until 2002, at a Council on Foreign
Relations forum in Washington yesterday.  The U.S. and other countries may need to pare back on
military and development aid pouring into Afghanistan, said
 Andrew Exum , an adviser to Army General  David Petraeus , the top
U.S. and NATO commander in the war.  The aid is creating a “horrible dynamic whereby both the
insurgency and the government of Afghanistan need this war
because they are making so much money off of it,” said Exum, a
former platoon leader in Iraq and Afghanistan who is now at the
Center for a New American Security, a defense-oriented think
tank in Washington, and has just returned from the war zone.  Local Warlords  While Grenier argues that the U.S. needs to shift more
support from Karzai to warlords who are being driven into the
arms of the Taliban,  James Dobbins  of Washington-based
International Security and Defense Policy Center at the Rand
Corporation, a policy research organization, said the Obama
administration needs to work with both.  “I don’t think they’re in contradiction, although there
are tensions involved as you do it,” said Dobbins, who served
as President  George W. Bush ’s representative to the Afghan
opposition after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  Pakistan is another linchpin. U.S. Marine Corps General
 James Cartwright , the vice chairman of the  Joint Chiefs of
Staff , said at the Pentagon yesterday that the militant havens
in Pakistan pose a “strategic vulnerability” for the U.S.
military in Afghanistan.  He and other U.S. officials, including Obama, have cited
significantly improved cooperation by Pakistan, even though the
country’s army has been diverted from the task by widespread
flooding in August. Cartwright said the ability of insurgent
fighters to conduct cross-border operations has been
“measurably diminished.”  Plan for Pakistan  Continued support and training for Pakistan’s military,
economic and development aid to help the government and
strengthened cooperation at the border form the crux of the U.S.
plan on that front, officials said.  “The more civilian capacity we can help them build up, the
more it frees up their military to be focused more on the
counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency operations,” said
 Michele Flournoy , the undersecretary of Defense for policy, who
appeared at the Pentagon with Cartwright.  Persian Gulf nations could use their influence on Afghan
and Pakistani officials and further cut the flow of funding to
the insurgency, Dobbins said. China and Russia also could help
more to forge a solution to the conflict, Lockhart said.  “We have dramatically increased our regional diplomacy,”
Clinton said. “We are working closely with a number of parties
to explore what is and what isn’t possible on the reconciliation
front.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  in Washington at
 fjackson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 