-- Mobilicity Expects to Win 1 in 10 New Canadian Mobile Telephone Customers
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-12-17T18:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/mobilicity-expects-to-win-1-in-10-new-canadian-mobile-telephone-customers.html
Mobilicity, the Canadian wireless
carrier backed by New York-based Quadrangle Group LLC, expects
to take 10 percent of new Canadian wireless subscribers this
quarter as it expands across the country.  The company has added 50,000 subscribers this quarter so
far and is basing its estimate for one-tenth of new business on
analyst projections, Chief Executive Officer  Dave Dobbin  said
today in an interview.  “We only had Toronto for the full quarter; Vancouver,
Edmonton and Ottawa only launched at the end of November,” said
Dobbin. “So that now that all the markets are open I would
expect the growth rate to accelerate.”  Mobilicity opened in Toronto in May with 35 stores there
and plans to add service in Calgary early next year as it bids
to take customers away from the country’s three biggest wireless
carriers, Rogers Communications Inc.,  BCE Inc. , and  Telus Corp. ,
which controlled about 95 percent of Canada’s mobile-phone
market at the beginning of this year.  Mobilicity is the fourth new Canadian mobile carrier to
start operations in the past year after the federal government
opened and sold more wireless spectrum to fuel competition. Wind
Mobile debuted in December and Public Mobile in March, while
 Quebecor Inc. ’s Videotron unit began a service in September.  Rogers added 125,000 contract subscribers last quarter,
fewer than analysts expected in what Chief Executive Officer
 Nadir Mohamed  said was an “increasingly competitive” market.  Mobilicity takes more business from Rogers than from the
other incumbents, Dobbin said. “I can’t speculate on why
customers leave Rogers, I just know they do,” he said.  While Dobbin declined to say whether Mobilicity is making
money yet, he said its backers are “very satisfied.”  Mobilicity’s investors include Quadrangle, a private-equity
firm that invests in media and telecommunications companies and
has more than $3 billion in assets.  Quadrangle is investing at least $200 million in
Mobilicity, the firm’s largest single investment, Michael Huber,
co-president of Quadrangle, said in an interview in May.
Quadrangle plans to remain an investor for “years,” he said.
The firm’s typical investment commitment is four to five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net 
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net ; 