-- Hollywood Sales Record Depends on ‘Tron,’ ‘Yogi Bear’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2010-12-17T21:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/hollywood-box-office-record-dependent-on-tron-yogi-bear-ticket-sales.html
Ticket sales for holiday movies
including  Walt Disney Co.’s  “Tron: Legacy” and  Time Warner
Inc.’s  “Yogi Bear” will decide whether Hollywood posts a
second consecutive year of record revenue.  A weak November has put the chances for another record in
jeopardy. Even with the drop, 2010 is Hollywood’s second-highest
grossing year, with $9.9 billion in U.S. and Canadian ticket
sales as of Dec. 12, according to  Hollywood.com Box-Office .  That leaves $700 million to go for total box office to pass
last year’s $10.6 billion. While “Tron” and “Yogi Bear” will
benefit from the added revenue that 3-D surcharges generate,
they’re up against comparisons with 2009’s surprise hit “The
Blind Side” and “Avatar,” the top-grossing movie of all time.  “Even with higher ticket prices it’s going to be really
tough” to exceed last year’s sales,  Paul Dergarabedian ,
president of  Hollywood.com’s  box-office unit, said in an
interview. “We may end up a little shy.”  “Tron” took in $3.6 million from midnight showings,
according to Hollywood.com. That includes a $1 million, or a
record 28 percent, from Imax screens, the researcher said.  The film may take in as much as $55 million over the
weekend, Dergarabedian said.  Gitesh Pandya , editor of Box Office
Guru.com, predicts $40 million.  In August, Dergarabedian predicted that 2010 sales may
reach $11 billion, helped by the 24 three-dimensional movies
planned for release this year. Studios released 14 3-D movies in
2009.  Declining Sales  After five straight weekends of declining sales, another
record year is too close to call, Dergarabedian said. Movie
attendance fell 14 percent from Nov. 5 to Dec. 12, according to
Hollywood.com. Sales fell 9.2 percent to $1.08 billion, compared
with $1.19 billion in the same period last year.  “Tron,” a 3-D sequel to the 1982 film about a man trapped
inside a video game, and “Yogi Bear,” based on the television
cartoon character, open today. Movies opening next week include
the  Jack Black  comedy “Gulliver’s Travels” and “Little
Fockers,” the third in the series starring  Ben Stiller  and
 Robert De Niro .  This year, 3-D movies including “Toy Story 3” and “Alice
in Wonderland” have helped lift total revenue 1.5 percent.
During the same period, attendance is down 3.5 percent.  “The Blind Side,” starring  Sandra Bullock , was made for
about $29 million and generated $256 million in the U.S. and
Canada.  “We don’t have a big surprise like this that goes over
$200 million,” Pandya said, referring to this year’s films.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 