-- Tombini Takes Soccer Attack to Post-Meirelles Brazil as Prices Accelerate
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-12-17T02:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/tombini-will-have-to-walk-in-meirelles-shoes-to-tackle-brazil-inflation.html
As a doctoral student in economics
at the University of Illinois,  Alexandre Tombini  sent opponents
limping off the soccer field with his heavy tackles.  As Brazil’s next central bank president, he’ll need to show
similar determination to curb inflation running at its  fastest
pace  in more than five years -- while he’s working for a newly
elected president at an institution without formal independence.  The 47-year-old economist, who has spent most of his
 professional life  at the central bank, doesn’t yet have the
authority that allowed outgoing bank chief  Henrique Meirelles  to
bring down the pace of price increases to 5.6 percent from 12.5
percent in eight years, said  Andressa Tezine , vice president of
emerging-market fixed-income at PineBridge Investments, which
has about $83 billion under management, including investments in
Brazilian government bonds.  “This is a worst-case scenario,” said Tezine, speaking by
telephone from London. “You have the current inflation higher
than expected, plus you have doubts about the central bank.”  Should Tombini move decisively to fight inflation during
his first months in the job, he may establish the sort of
credibility that Meirelles currently enjoys, Tezine said. This
would cause bonds maturing after 2015 to outperform short-term
debt, she added.  Under Meirelles, Brazil’s dollar bonds gained 250 percent
from 2003 through Dec. 16, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.
The  extra yield  investors demand for holding Brazil’s dollar
bonds instead of U.S. treasures declined from 1,446 basis
points, or 14.46 percentage points, to 175 basis points, or 1.75
percentage points.  Best Performer  The  benchmark rate  fell to 10.75 percent, from 25 percent
in January 2003, the month President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva
took office. The real more than doubled against the dollar,
making it the best performer of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index gained 1,142 percent in
dollar terms, compared with 41 percent for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  The Brazil of Lula and Meirelles reaped a “double
dividend” from economic stabilization and rising commodities
prices, said  Ilan Goldfajn , chief economist of  Itau Unibanco 
Holding SA and a former central bank board member in charge of
economic policy.  As these dividends fade in importance, the Brazil of
Tombini and President  Dilma Rousseff  won’t be able to continue
growing at its recent rates without tax and regulatory changes
to make Brazil more business-friendly, said Goldfajn, who co-
authored working papers with Tombini for the central bank.  By Itself  Tombini’s biggest challenge will be to use his influence to
try to change the “policy mix” and bring down the budget
deficit to allow interest rates to fall without stoking
inflation, Goldfajn said.  “Fiscal policy has been too  expansionary . This has left
the central bank to fight inflation by itself,” said Goldfajn.  If the government does not reduce borrowing, Brazil’s
interest rates could take as long as a decade to converge with
international levels instead of four or five years, Goldfajn
added in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  Rousseff, a former Marxist guerrilla who was jailed and
tortured by Brazil’s 1964-1985 military dictatorship, was
elected Brazil’s first female president Oct. 31 after she
pledged to continue the policies of her mentor Lula and end
poverty. Tombini will need to compete to influence Rousseff with
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who will remain in the post he’s
held since 2006.  The relationship between Tombini and Rousseff is “a very
big uncertainty,” said  Marcelo Salomon , chief Brazil economist
for Barclays Capital, in a telephone interview from New York. In
his confirmation hearing before Brazil’s Senate Dec. 7, Tombini
told lawmakers that Rousseff had pledged him “total operational
autonomy.”  Well-Traveled  Brazilian policy makers are appointed and removed by the
president and aren’t limited by set terms. By contrast, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke , European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  and Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  are
appointed for fixed terms and remain regardless of who is in
power.  Tombini was born in the southern state of Rio Grande do
Sul, one of three siblings. His father was an economist for the
United Nations in the 1960s and 70s, and the family lived in
Paraguay, Guatemala, Costa Rica and Chile during his youth.  Illinois Education  Tombini’s views on inflation were honed at Illinois, in
Urbana-Champaign, where he was one of a generation of Latin
American economists studying as part of a post-graduate
scholarship program set up by economics professor  Werner Baer .  The current central bank presidents of Colombia and
Paraguay, as well as the President of Ecuador,  Rafael Correa ,
also studied economics at Illinois.  Tombini and  Jose Dario Uribe  of Colombia took an
econometrics class together, and became close friends. The
future monetary chiefs of Latin America’s largest and fifth-
largest economies used to watch soccer matches together,
including the 1990 World Cup tournament, when both Colombia and
Brazil were eliminated in the second round.  “I remember when Colombia played Germany, and we equalized
in the last minute. He was there celebrating with us,” Uribe
said in a telephone interview.  After Tombini met Michele Ann Todd, an American law student
whom he later married, the two future central bankers saw each
less often, Uribe said. The couple has two children, aged 13 and
9.  Aggressive Soccer  Bernard Mueller, an economics professor at the University
of Brasilia, played on Tombini’s soccer team in Illinois. The
squad was sponsored by a local restaurant, and played in shirts
advertising “Burritos as Big as Your Head,” Mueller recalled.  Mueller remembers his former teammate as quiet and reserved
off the field but highly aggressive on it.  “He always played in attack, and used to hog the ball a
lot,” Mueller said in an interview in Brasilia. “He took the
game very seriously. He would argue all the time.”  At Illinois, Tombini wrote a 1991 doctoral thesis entitled
“Financial Instability and Economic Activity in Brazil:
Theoretical and Empirical Evidence.” The opening sentence of
the 167-page work identifies “high and unstable inflation” as
a main cause of financial crises in Latin America.  Raging Inflation  In August 1991, the month Tombini published his thesis,
annual  inflation was running  at 381 percent in Brazil, down from
a peak of 6,821 percent in April the previous year. That held
back the country’s development by making lenders reluctant to
extend credit long enough to finance long-term projects.  Now, Tombini takes charge of Brazil’s monetary policy as
inflation approaches the upper limit of the central bank’s
target range. Consumer prices as measured by the benchmark IPCA
index rose 5.63 percent in the 12-month period through November.
Prices rose 0.83 percent from the previous month, the biggest
such increase since April 2005.  The bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus
two percentage points.  Policy makers on Dec. 3 raised reserve and capital
requirements for banks to try to cool the 20 percent annual
growth in consumer credit that is powering domestic demand. In
his current position as the bank’s Director of Financial System
Regulation and Organization, Tombini has a deep understanding of
these kinds of measures, which are his “bread and butter,”
said Salomon of Barclays Capital.  Currency Appreciation  Low interest rates in the U.S., Japan and the euro region
are driving investors to seek higher-yielding assets in emerging
markets. This means that countries such as Brazil, Turkey and
Poland that face accelerating inflation will need to think
“more creatively” about how they conduct monetary policy, to
avoid currency appreciation, said  Neil Shearing , an emerging
markets economist for London-based Capital Economics.  “Tombini’s own background might mean that the Brazilian
central bank is more willing to embrace different monetary
policy tools,” Shearing said. “He is well versed in all of
this. If anyone understood monetary economics better than
Meirelles it was him.”  From Meirelles, Tombini inherits an economy slowing from
its  fastest year of growth  since 1985. The world’s eighth-
largest economy will expand 4.5 percent in 2011, down from 7.6
percent 2010, according to the latest central bank forecast.  On Dec. 15 Brazil’s Senate voted to approve Tombini’s
nomination. Tombini declined requests for an interview before
starting his new job when Rousseff takes office Jan. 1.  Brazil’s economic performance over the next few years may
hinge on how well he remembers his economics classes in
Illinois, said Baer, who also taught the three other Latin
American central bank presidents who attended Illinois.  “When they do well, it’s because they got an excellent
education,” Baer said. “When they screw up, it’s because they
forgot everything we taught them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Bristow  in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  