-- Total Pays $1.7 Billion for Stakes in Suncor Canadian Oil-Sands Projects
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2010-12-17T21:04:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/total-purchases-suncor-alberta-oil-sands-interests-for-1-7-billion.html
Total SA , Europe’s third-biggest oil
producer, bought stakes in oil-sands developments in Alberta
from  Suncor Energy Inc . for C$1.75 billion ($1.74 billion), as
it seeks out unconventional crude sources to sustain output.  The companies formed a “strategic alliance” for the Fort
Hills, Joslyn and Voyageur projects in the Athabasca region of
the province where they will pool their interests, Paris-based
Total said today. The two agreed to work to bring Fort Hills and
Voyageur into production in early 2016.  “Oil sands are an attractive resource, offering long-term,
stable production,”  Oswald Clint , a London-based analyst for
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. with an “outperform” rating on
Total, wrote today in a note to clients. Total is poised to
surpass  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  as the largest European producer
from Canada’s oil sands within the decade, he said.  The French company, which this year raised production from
a nine-year low, plans to spend as much as C$20 billion in
Athabasca to produce more than 200,000 barrels a day by 2020.
The ecological cost of extracting oil from western Canada’s tar-
soaked bogs has drawn criticism as the production generates as
much as 40 percent more carbon-dioxide emissions than
conventional wells, according to environmental group Natural
Resources Defense Council.  Total  fell  13 cents to 39.77 euros at 5:39 p.m. in Paris.
Suncor  fell  18 cents to C$36.30 at 4 p.m. on the Toronto Stock
Exchange.  Swapping Assets  Total will buy 19.2 percent of Calgary-based Suncor’s stake
in the Fort Hills project, bringing its interest to 39.2
percent, as well as 49 percent in Suncor’s Voyageur upgrader
development near Fort McMurray. The plant will be able to
process 200,000 barrels a day of products including bitumen from
Total’s Fort Hills and Joslyn output.  In return, Suncor will take 36.75 percent of the French
company’s interest in Joslyn, which has a production potential
of 200,000 barrels a day, according to a statement.  Regulators must approve the agreement, Total said.  The companies agreed to begin output from Fort Hills and
Voyageur in early 2016, Total said. Production from the Joslyn
North mine, estimated at 100,000 barrels a day, will start in
2017 or 2018.  “This collaboration will allow us to strengthen our
portfolio of Canadian oil-sands assets, opening new
opportunities to develop this strategically important energy
resource,”  Yves-Louis Darricarrere , head of exploration and
production at Total, said in the statement.  Biggest Crude Reserves  Total in July announced the purchase of Calgary-based UTS
Energy Corp., giving it a 20 percent stake in the Fort Hills
mining project in the Athabasca region. The open-pit mine
contains about 3.4 billion barrels of bitumen and may produce
about 160,000 barrels a day by 2016.  Alberta’s oil sands contain the biggest crude reserves
outside of Saudi Arabia, according to government estimates.  “We are trying to build our position in Canada based on
the long-term bet” that energy demand will outstrip supply,
 Jean-Michel Gires , Total’s president of Canadian exploration and
production, said in an interview in September.  Crude-oil prices need to be at least $80 a barrel to
justify investments in projects in Alberta, Total’s Chief
Executive Officer  Christophe de Margerie  has said.  Cash from the sale and the Canadian company’s reduced costs
for the upgrader will enable doubling production to the
equivalent of more than 1 million barrels of oil a day by 2020,
Suncor Chief Executive Officer  Rick George  said on a conference
call today.  Suncor’s Capital Spending  Total’s cash and money from operations will pay for C$6.7
billion of planned capital spending next year, George said.
That’s a 22 percent increase from a 2010 spending estimate by
the company on Nov. 4.  With the benchmark North American crude oil price at $85,
Suncor expects cash flow to cover most of its planned spending,
as much as C$9.5 billion, from 2012 to 2015, Chief Financial
Officer  Bart Demosky  said on the call.  Crude futures in New York trading rose above $90 last week,
the highest price in more than two years.  Total’s production growth this year, after output touched a
nine-year low in 2009, came from starting fields in Nigeria, the
Gulf of Mexico, Angola and Norway, as well as liquefied natural-
gas projects in Yemen and Qatar. The company expects production
to be little changed next year because of a lull in startups and
has pledged to explore more aggressively in frontier regions to
boost output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tara Patel  in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  