-- Mourinho Wants Tevez or Adebayor at Real Madrid, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2010-12-17T09:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/mourinho-wants-tevez-or-adebayor-at-real-madrid-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Mourinho Search  Real Madrid coach  Jose Mourinho  wants to sign either
Manchester City striker  Carlos Tevez , his teammate  Emmanuel Adebayor  or Manchester United’s Javier Hernandez, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  Mourinho is looking for cover during next month’s transfer
window for injured forward  Gonzalo Higuain , who may be sidelined
for two months, the Mail said.  He is most likely to acquire Adebayor on loan until the end
of the season because Real doesn’t intend to pay more than 15
million euros ($20 million) for Tevez, the Mail said. United is
unlikely to trade Hernandez, the newspaper added.  Van Bommel Available  Tottenham and Manchester City are vying to sign Bayern
Munich midfielder  Mark van Bommel , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 33-year-old Netherlands captain is available for about
4 million pounds ($6.3 million) in the January transfer period,
according to the Mirror.  Liverpool in Russia  Liverpool is considering a move to sign Zenit St.
Petersburg right back Alexander Anyukov, who would cost as much
as 18 million pounds, the  Daily Mail  reported.  The Reds are also looking at Rennes midfielder Yann M’Vila,
according to the Mail.  Ecclestone Ups Stake  Formula One chief executive  Bernie Ecclestone  increased his
stake in Queens Park Rangers to 62 percent after acquiring
 Flavio Briatore ’s shares,  the Independent  reported.  Ecclestone said his role is “mainly to support” QPR coach
 Neil Warnock , who’s seeking to lead the team back to the Premier
League after a 15-year absence, the newspaper reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 