-- Congress Passes $858 Billion Tax-Cut Extension, Sends to Obama for Signing
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   P e t e r   C o h n
-- 2010-12-17T16:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/house-votes-to-debate-obama-s-858-billion-tax-cut-deal-with-republicans.html
The U.S. Congress passed an $858
billion bill extending for two years all Bush-era tax cuts,
sending the measure to President  Barack Obama  for his signature.  Obama is scheduled to sign the measure into law at 3:50
p.m. today at the White House, the administration said in an e-
mailed statement.  Before the House voted 277-148 for final passage on the
tax-cut agreement, members defeated an amendment crafted by some
Democrats to express their displeasure with the bill and
especially with a Republican-backed estate-tax proposal.  Enough Democrats voted with House Republicans to accept the
deal that Obama negotiated with congressional Republicans who
gained scores of seats in last month’s election. Republicans
said the bill would provide certainty about tax rates and would
create jobs.  Failure to pass the bill would “cause grave economic harm
and possibly send us back into a double-dip recession,” said
Representative  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican who will
become majority leader in January.  The vote concluded a debate over the expiring tax cuts that
dominated the 2008 and 2010 U.S. election campaigns. As the
renewed tax cuts will expire at the end of 2012 they are certain
to be a focus of the next presidential campaign.  Congress completed enactment of the tax deal as it prepared
to adjourn for the year. The House could finish work later
today, and the Senate will continue work over the weekend on
unfinished business such as a spending measure to finance the
government. Democratic Leader  Harry Reid  said the Senate will
likely vote next week on ratification of an arms-reduction
treaty with Russia.  ‘Income Inequality’  On the tax bill, majorities of both parties came together
to push it through. Voting in favor were 139 Democrats and 138
Republicans, while 112 Democrats and 36 Republicans voted
against it. Eight lawmakers didn’t vote.  “Wonderful,” said Representative  David Obey , a Wisconsin
Democrat who is retiring after 40 years, as he left the House
floor for one of the last times in his career. “Just what we
need: further exacerbate income inequality in this country.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said in a statement
that the tax plan was “good for growth, good for jobs.”  U.S. stock-index futures were little changed this morning,
with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index at its highest level since
September 2008, up 46.2 percent since Obama took office and up
1.6 percent since the tax deal was struck on Dec. 7.  Many Democrats had insisted that the U.S. couldn’t afford
to keep the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for family income exceeding
$250,000 a year. Republicans demanded extension of the tax cuts,
which expire on Dec. 31, for all income levels.  Capital Gains  The tax-cut plan extends through 2012 all Bush-era tax
reductions on income, capital gains and dividends. It continues
expanded unemployment insurance benefits through 2011, cuts
payroll taxes by 2 percentage points during 2011 and lets
businesses write off 100 percent of capital investments between
Sept. 9, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2011. Obama agreed on the plan with
Republicans on Dec. 6.  The legislation also extends dozens of expired and expiring
tax breaks, including a research and development tax credit and
a college tuition tax credit that was created in last year’s
economic stimulus law.  Tax Certainty  Republicans said the measure would give businesses and
individuals certainty that tax rates would not rise in January.  “This House -- the people’s House -- has a simple choice
to make today: Raise taxes on families and small businesses or
prevent a massive, job-killing tax increase from going into
effect a mere 16 days from now,” said Representative  Dave Camp 
of Michigan, who will become chairman of the tax-writing Ways
and Means Committee next month.  House Democrats threatened last week to refuse to bring the
Senate’s tax plan to the floor unchanged. They focused much of
their ire on the estate-tax provision, saying it benefits the
wealthiest Americans at the cost of a higher budget deficit.  “It is a huge giveaway to the super-rich in these tough
economic times,” said Representative  Jim McDermott , a
Washington Democrat. “It just boggles the mind. It’s
indefensible, unconscionable.”  Estate-Tax Rate  Under the plan negotiated with Obama, the estate tax next
year would have a top rate of 35 percent to be applied after an
exemption of $5 million per person. House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi 
of California, who will become minority leader in January and
wasn’t part of final negotiations on the measure, said she was
troubled by the cost of the agreement, especially for the estate
tax breaks.  “I salute President Obama for getting in the bill what is
in there,” she said. “I’m sorry for the price that has to be
paid by our children and our grandchildren to the Chinese
government to pay for the increase in the deficit that the
Republicans insisted upon.”  Many House Democrats favored a top estate tax rate of 45
percent with a $3.5 million per person tax-free allowance. The
House passed such a rate in December 2009; the proposal died in
the Senate.  GDP Forecasts  The tax-cut deal, along with larger-than-projected gains in
U.S. retail sales, prompted economists to raise their forecasts
for gross domestic product and consumer spending, which accounts
for about 70 percent of the world’s largest economy.  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at  JPMorgan Chase  &
Co. in New York, increased his 2011 growth forecast half a
percentage point to 3.1 percent.  Tom Porcelli , a senior
economist at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in New York, raised his
by one percentage point, also to 3.1 percent.  Deutsche Bank Securities economists, led by  Joseph LaVorgna , said the tax agreement would increase inflation-
adjusted growth by 0.7 percentage point, to a 4 percent annual
rate for the fourth quarter of next year.  “This has been a done deal for a while,” said House
Agriculture Committee Chairman  Collin Peterson , a Minnesota
Democrat. He called the speculation over the estate-tax proposal
“just a lot of gnashing of teeth.”  Democrats control the House 255-179, with one seat vacant.
Republicans will take over the majority in January.  “The choice is to pay the ransom now or to watch it go up
next month,” said Representative  Brad Sherman , a California
Democrat.  The Senate passed the tax-cut plan, 81-19, on Dec. 15 with
broad support from Democrats and Republicans.  Senate Republicans had said any significant changes made by
the House would be rejected in the Senate and would risk
scuttling the entire agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cohn  in Washington at 
 pcohn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  