-- Low Bond Yields Susceptible to 1994-Style `Reversal,' Bank of England Says
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-17T12:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/low-bond-yields-susceptible-to-1994-style-reversal-boe-says.html
Record-low bond yields in the global
market are “susceptible to a sudden reversal,” potentially
putting U.K. bank earnings at risk, Bank of England said.  Concern the sovereign-debt crisis may spread, undermining
demand for government bonds, as well as the risk of accelerating
inflation may cause an “abrupt snap back” in bond yields, the
U.K. central bank said in its Financial Stability Report. The
bank said such a scenario could destabilize the market as
happened in 1994, referring to a bond sell-off that occurred
when the prospect of rising inflation led the Federal Reserve to
begin tightening monetary policy. The Fed funds rate nearly
doubled to 5.50 percent that year.  “A yield spike may lead to trading losses for banks even
if the assets are liquid,” the report said. “Any sharp
reversal in low rates could therefore be a concern for financial
stability as this may lead to a value-at-risk shock for banks,
resulting in asset disposals.”  Developed-market policy makers, including the Fed, the Bank
of England and the European Central Bank, have kept their
official borrowing costs at historically low levels to support
the economy following the financial crisis that followed Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy in September 2008.  Loose monetary policies have helped to anchor short-dated
bond yields, widening their spreads with longer-dated
securities. Five-year Treasury yields fell to a record low of
1.0148 percent on Nov. 4, while the yield on two-year German
notes declined to 0.43 percent on May 20, the lowest level since
at least 1990.  The three central banks will hold off raising official
interest rates until the fourth quarter of next year, according
to analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News.  ‘Heightened Volatility’  “Low interest rates, in combination with historically steep
yield curves, have allowed banks to generate substantial
interest income, borrowing at low short-term interest rates and
investing longer-term at higher interest rates,” the bank said
in the report. “Low bond yields have been the intended
consequence of authorities’ actions.”  Borrowing costs may begin to rise faster when policy makers
shift their focus on inflation or limiting unfounded
speculation, slowing growth and restraining corporate profits.
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  tightened six
times in 1994, taking rates to 5.5 percent from 3 percent. The
return on Treasuries fell 3 percent as a result, the first
annual loss in a quarter century.  While the 1994 U.S. bond sell-off increased volatility and
affected international financial markets, the bank said it’s
unlikely current economies will experience the same magnitude of
increase in bond yields, partly because inflation expectations
are “better anchored” and demand for so-called risky assets is
not as strong as in the past.  “One reason why volatility increased in 1994 was because of
the leveraged positions of investors and the margin calls they
faced,” the report said. “Derivatives such as structured notes
are better understood today, and there is currently weaker
appetite for riskier investments. That would be expected to
mitigate the impact of any shock to the shape of the yield
curve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keith Campbell at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  