-- Lloyds Banking Doubles Bad-Loan Charge for Irish Unit
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2010-12-19T13:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/lloyds-sees-increased-6-7-billion-impairment-charge-on-irish-loan-losses.html
(Corrects story published Dec. 17 to remove erroneous
reference to analyst estimate in final paragraph.)  Lloyds Banking Group Plc  expects to
more than double its Irish bad-loan charge in the second half
following a “significant” worsening of conditions in the
country.  An additional 10 percent of its 26.7 billion pounds ($41.3
billion) of loans in the republic will be classified as impaired
before the fiscal year-end, Lloyds said in a statement today.
The bank will raise the amount it’s setting aside to cover
potential loan losses to 4.3 billion pounds for the full year
the company said, from 1.56 billion pounds at the end of June.  “The group has seen a further significant deterioration in
market conditions in the Republic of Ireland,” Lloyds said in
the statement. “We are concerned that any economic recovery in
the Republic of Ireland may take longer to achieve, and that
asset prices will remain depressed for longer than previously
anticipated.”  Ireland was forced on Nov. 21 to apply for an 85 billion-
euro ($112 billion) international aid package, including
assistance for banks, and is pushing through 15 billion euros of
spending cuts and tax rises to fix its finances. Irish banks are
grappling with mounting loan losses, caused in part by the end
of a decade-long property boom.  Lloyds, 41 percent U.K.-government owned, said about 90
percent of its Irish commercial property development loans were
impaired, while 45 percent of loans for commercial property
investment were impaired at the half year.  RBS Declines  The London-based lender said last month it had sent a total
of 4.45 billion euros in fresh capital to its Bank of Scotland
(Ireland) unit in 2010 and previously.  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , which had 53.3 billion pounds of loans in Ireland as
of Sept. 30, also sent 2.71 billion pounds of additional capital
to its Ulster Bank unit up to January this year.  “There is negative read across to RBS from the Lloyds
news,”  Joseph Dickerson , an analyst at Execution Holdings Ltd.
in London said. “We estimate that RBS needs a further 8 billion
pounds of loss reserves against its Irish book.”  Lloyds tumbled 3.6 percent to  66.5 pence  at the close of
London trading. RBS fell 5.7 percent to 37.82 pence.  A spokeswoman for Lloyds declined to comment further. A
spokeswoman for RBS declined to comment on whether the bank
planned a similar reassessment of its Irish loan losses.  British banks have the most at stake in Ireland of all
international banks. U.K. banks had about $187 billion of loans
to the country at the end of the second quarter, according to
the  Bank for International Settlements .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  