-- Payrolls Drop in 28 U.S. States, Joblessness Rises in 21 in Labor Setback
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-17T16:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/payrolls-decrease-in-28-u-s-states-led-by-north-carolina.html
Payrolls decreased in 28 U.S. states
and the unemployment rate climbed in 21, showing most parts of
the world’s largest economy took part in the November labor-
market setback.  North Carolina led the nation with 12,500 job cuts last
month, followed by Massachusetts with 8,600 dismissals, and Ohio
with 7,800, figures from the Labor Department showed today in
Washington. Joblessness increased most in Georgia and Idaho,
while workers in Nevada faced the highest rate in the country at
14.3 percent.  The report is consistent with figures on Dec. 3 that showed
 unemployment  increased last month for the first time since
August. The Federal Reserve’s pledge to buy an additional $600
billion of Treasuries by June and the $858 billion bill passed
by Congress extending all Bush-era tax cuts for two years may
help boost growth and cut unemployment.  The report shows “an uneven distribution of improvement
with some disappointing results,” said  Russell Price , a senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in Detroit. “We’ve seen
pretty clear evidence that demand is starting to improve and
with the tax program that was passed last night it should
further accelerate. That increased demand is going to pull
forward further improvements in employment.”  Leading Index  Another report showed the economy is poised to pick up in
2011. The index of leading economic indicators increased 1.1
percent in November, the biggest gain in eight months, the New
York-based Conference said today. The reading matched the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  After Nevada, the jobless rate was highest in California
and Michigan at 12.4 percent, today’s report from the Labor
Department showed. Michigan, which is part of the so-called
manufacturing Rust Belt, saw its unemployment rate drop by 0.4
percentage point, pushing it to the lowest level since February
2009, as the labor force shrank by 19,500 workers.  Yahoo! Inc. , owner of the largest U.S. Web portal, is among
companies still trimming payrolls. The firm is cutting about 600
jobs, or about 4 percent of its workforce, part of an almost
two-year turnaround effort. The notification process began on
Dec. 14 and most of the cuts will come from the product group,
said  Kim Rubey , a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-based
Yahoo.  Unemployment in North Dakota, the lowest in the U.S., was
unchanged at 3.8 percent.  November Payrolls  The Labor Department’s Dec. 3 report showed payrolls
increased by 39,000 in November, less than the most pessimistic
forecast of economists surveyed at the time by Bloomberg News,
and the jobless rate climbed to 9.8 percent, the highest since
April.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Today’s report showed Texas led states with the biggest
payroll gains as employers added 19,100 workers. New Jersey was
second with an increase of 10,000.  The jobless rate held at 9.2 percent in New Jersey, rose to
8.3 percent from 8.2 percent in New York, and fell to 9 percent
from 9.1 percent in Connecticut.  Unemployment in Georgia climbed by 0.3 percentage point to
10.1 percent in November after having fallen in the previous two
months. Idaho’s rate climbed by the same amount to 9.4 percent,
just short of the almost three-decade high of 9.5 percent
reached in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  