-- PBOC's Zhou Indicates Global Turbulence Is Delaying Chinese Move on Rates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-17T07:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/pboc-s-zhou-indicates-global-turbulence-is-delaying-chinese-move-on-rates.html
China’s central bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  indicated that turbulence in the global economy is
limiting the nation’s ability to raise interest rates to counter
inflation, according to the China Daily newspaper.  The government is taking a very prudent approach to
increasing rates because of an unstable and rapidly changing
global situation, the state-run paper reported today, citing
Zhou. It didn’t say where or when he made the comments.  China’s inflation  climbed to a 28-month high in November
and officials pledged this month to shift to a tighter,
“prudent” monetary policy stance in 2011. The central bank
raised reserve requirements for lenders for the third time in
five weeks on Dec. 10, while refraining from adding to October’s
interest-rate increase, the nation’s first since 2007.  “The procrastination in raising interest rates will
further increase the risk of asset bubbles and worsen the
inflation situation,” said  Chang Jian , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Barclays Capital. “The government is likely to
raise rates in the early part of next year.”  Global risks include Europe’s debt crisis. In contrast with
Standard & Poor’s yesterday raising China’s debt rating, citing
the nation’s fiscal strength, Moody’s Investors Service has put
Spain on review for a possible downgrade.  ‘Soft Landing’  China’s economy is undergoing a “soft landing” and the
government can keep inflation within a “reasonable” range next
year,  Liu Mingkang , the nation’s top banking regulator, said at
a forum in Beijing today.  Economic growth in the fourth quarter may slow to 9 percent
from 9.6 percent in the previous three-month period, according
to the median estimate of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
The pace may cool to 8.4 percent in the first quarter of next
year, the survey indicated.  China lags behind Asian countries including Malaysia and
South Korea in boosting borrowing costs. Some economists
predicted the People’s Bank of China would move last weekend
after the release of inflation data and as officials completed
an economic planning meeting in Beijing.  Zhou pledged more measures to curb  liquidity  and inflation,
the China Daily said, without being more specific.  Reserve Requirements  The reserve requirement for the biggest banks is 18.5
percent, excluding extra curbs for individual lenders not
publicly announced. For some, the level is temporarily 50 basis
points higher, according to two people briefed on the matter.  In the medium term, average deposit rates in China will be
higher than  consumer-price gains  to ensure stability in the
economy, Zhou was quoted as saying. China’s benchmark one-year
deposit rate is 2.5 percent, compared with an annual 5.1 percent
inflation rate in November.  Former central bank Deputy Governor  Wu Xiaoling  said Dec.
11 that China was limited in raising rates by the threat of
inflows of capital, which would add to excess liquidity. She
cited a global environment of low interest rates.  China will make “noticeable progress” in the next five
years in interest-rate liberalization, Zhou said separately at a
financial forum in Beijing today. The lenders with the best
ability to price risk should be given more freedom to set rates
according to market conditions, ahead of those still bearing
heavy “historic burdens,” Zhou said.  -- Li Yanping ,  Zheng Lifei ,  Zhang Dingmin ,  Eva Woo . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Lily Nonomiya .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  