-- Peugeot's India Factory Plan in `Active Phase,' Chief Executive Varin Says
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-12-17T09:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/peugeot-s-indian-factory-plan-entering-active-phase-chief-varin-says.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, has revived plans to build a factory in
India and may announce the investment early next year, Chief
Executive Officer  Philippe Varin  said in an interview.  Planning has entered “an active phase” under  Gregoire Olivier , the new Asia chief who took over in September, Varin
said late yesterday at an industry event in Paris. “We will
probably have something to say in January or February.”  Peugeot last year suspended plans to build a plant near
Hyderabad, the capital of  Andhra Pradesh , pending the outcome of
negotiations for a share swap with  Mitsubishi Motors Corp.  By
the time those talks were broken off in March, Peugeot had
shifted its focus to opening a second Chinese joint venture.
Peugeot now projects that the venture will be concluded in early
2011, freeing management time for the Indian project.  Rising disposable incomes are boosting  demand  for cars in
India, the world’s third-fastest growing major economy.
Competition is intensifying as automakers including  Toyota Motor
Corp. ,  Volkswagen AG  and  Renault SA  invest to expand in the
market. Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest automaker, bought a stake
in Suzuki Motor Corp. this year as part of a tie-up to develop
small cars for the Indian market.  In an earlier draft of its India plan, Paris-based Peugeot
was considering an investment about 700 million euros ($934
million) to build a factory with annual production capacity of
about 100,000 vehicles, a person with knowledge of the matter
said in July.  European Sales  The Peugeot brand, which exited an Indian venture in 1997
after local partner Premier Automobile Ltd. linked up with  Fiat
SpA , may lead the French carmaker back into the country.  Unlike Citroen, “the Peugeot brand has been in India
before so it already has some history there,” Varin said.  Under Varin, Peugeot is pushing to expand overseas and
reduce dependence on saturated western European markets, which
account for about three-quarters of the company’s revenue. The
share of volume sales from outside Europe rose to 36 percent in
the first half from 34 percent a year earlier.  Peugeot’s European registrations for the first 11 months
fell 1.9 percent to 12.74 million cars, according to Brussels-
based  European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  