-- Picower Estate Said to Pay $7.2 Billion in Biggest Madoff Fraud Settlement
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2010-12-17T15:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/picower-estate-said-to-pay-7-2-billion-in-biggest-madoff-fraud-settlement.html
The estate of  Jeffry Picower , an
investor with imprisoned con man Bernard Madoff, agreed to pay
$7.2 billion to recover money he made from the fraud.  Picower’s estate will pay $5 billion to  Irving Picard , the
trustee overseeing the liquidation of Madoff’s firm, and $2.2
billion to U.S. authorities, according to two people familiar
with the matter who declined to be identified because the
settlement isn’t public. Picard has recovered $2.5 billion for
other investors to date.  The $7.2 billion represents the entire amount that Picard
sought in a May 2009 lawsuit claiming Picower should have known
Madoff ran a Ponzi scheme. Picard has filed hundreds of suits
against banks, feeder funds, investors and others alleged to
have profited from Madoff’s decades-long fraud.  Picower, a billionaire, had a heart attack and drowned in
his swimming pool in Palm Beach, Florida, in October 2009. He
was 67. Picard claimed Picower, his charitable foundation and
related entities withdrew $7.2 billion from Madoff’s firm over
20 years, including $2.4 billion in the six years before
Madoff’s arrest.  William Zabel , an attorney for Picower’s widow Barbara,
said in August that the settlement range was between $2.4
billion and $7.2 billion. Zabel didn’t return calls seeking
comment. Picard and Ellen Davis, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara in New York, declined to comment.  Bharara and Picard will announce the settlement today at 12
p.m.  Bank Medici  This month, Picard sued Bank Medici AG and its founder,
 Sonja Kohn , as well as Bank Austria,  UniCredit SpA  and dozens of
other parties. He is seeking $19.6 billion from them, which
could triple to $58.8 billion under the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act.  In a settlement announced Dec. 8, the family of Boston
philanthropist Carl Shapiro agreed to pay back $625 million in
Madoff profits. Under the agreement, the Shapiros agreed to pay
$550 million to Picard for distribution to Madoff creditors. The
family also agreed to pay $75 million to the Justice Department,
which named Picard as special master to distribute the funds.  The deadline for Picard to file claims expired Dec. 11, the
two-year anniversary of when Madoff confessed the biggest Ponzi
scheme in U.S. history. He is serving a 150-year prison term.  In Picower’s will, dated 10 days before he died, Picower
left $200 million in cash to his wife. He also left $25 million
to his daughter, Gabrielle Picower, and about $15 million to 20
other beneficiaries. The unspecified remainder is to go to
charity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Larson  in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  