-- Picower Estate Reaches Settlement Over Madoff Fraud
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2010-12-17T14:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/picower-estate-reaches-settlement-over-madoff-fraud-u-s-prosecutors-say.html
U.S. prosecutors and the trustee
overseeing the liquidation of  Bernard Madoff’s  firm will
announce a settlement today in a lawsuit seeking $7.2 billion
from the estate of investor  Jeffry Picower , authorities said.  Trustee  Irving Picard  claimed in a lawsuit that Picower, a
billionaire who drowned in October 2009, should have known
Madoff ran a Ponzi scheme before his 2008 arrest. Picard claimed
Picower, his charitable foundation and related entities withdrew
$7.2 billion from Madoff’s firm over 20 years, including $2.4
billion in the six years before Madoff’s arrest.  William Zabel , an attorney for Picower’s widow Barbara,
said in August that the settlement range was between $2.4
billion and $7.2 billion. Picard filed hundreds of suits against
banks, feeder funds, investors and others alleged to have
profited from Madoff’s decades-long fraud.  So far, he has recovered about $2.5 billion. This month, he
sued Bank Medici AG and its founder,  Sonja Kohn , as well as Bank
Austria,  UniCredit SpA  and dozens of other parties. He is
seeking $19.6 billion from them, which could triple to $58.8
billion under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act.  The deadline for Picard to file claims expired Dec. 11, the
two-year anniversary of when Madoff confessed the biggest Ponzi
scheme in U.S. history. He is serving a 150-year prison term.  Preet Bharara , the U.S. attorney in New York, and Picard
will announce the settlement today at 12 p.m.  Picower, who was 67 when he died, had a heart attack in his
Palm Beach swimming pool and drowned. In his will, dated 10 days
before he died, Picower left $200 million in cash to his wife.
He also left $25 million to his daughter, Gabrielle Picower, and
about $15 million to 20 other beneficiaries. The unspecified
remainder is to go to charity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Larson  in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 