-- Pimco Favors Bank Bonds, Loans as Obama Moves to `Center': Credit Markets
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2010-12-17T17:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/pimco-favors-bank-bonds-loans-as-obama-moves-to-center-credit-markets.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, is betting U.S. bank
debt will rally in 2011 as the economy accelerates.  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc.  are poised to be
“two of the stars” in fixed-income markets next year, said
 Mark Kiesel , the global head of corporate bond portfolio
management at Pimco in Newport Beach, California. The largest
U.S. lenders are an attractive value compared with “every bank
you can buy in the world,” he said.  Pimco, which boosted its forecast for economic growth last
week, is backing bank bonds after the securities returned 7.62
percent this year, compared with the gain of 7.95 percent for
investment-grade company debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. U.S. corporate borrowers will benefit as the
economy revives following President  Barack Obama ’s agreement to
extend tax cuts, Kiesel said.  “That was the catalyst that sparked upward revision in
growth,” said Kiesel, who was nominated for fixed-income
manager of the year by Morningstar Inc. “That Obama is showing
some indication he’s willing to move more toward the center,
that’s net-net going to be marginally more positive for
business.”  Bank of America sold $1.5 billion of bonds yesterday in its
first offering of fixed-rate debt in four months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest U.S. lender by assets
has been facing demands by investors to buy back billions of
dollars in soured mortgages.  Basel III  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America’s Tier 1
capital ratio, the most important regulatory measure of a bank’s
financial health, rose to 8.45 percent last quarter. The Group
of 20 nations last month endorsed rules, known as Basel III,
setting the minimum at 7 percent.  “It’s the balance sheet improvement which is the story,”
Kiesel said in a telephone interview.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of similar maturity
government debt was unchanged at 171 basis points, or 1.71
percentage points, down from this year’s high of 201 basis
points in June, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad
Market Corporate Index shows. Yields averaged 4.034 percent.  The Barclays Capital Global Aggregate Index of bonds has
lost 1.02 percent this month, trimming this year’s gain to 3.13
percent.  Default Swaps Rise  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
rose. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.72 basis point to a
mid-price of 86.8 basis points as of 11:58 a.m. in New York,
according to Markit Group Ltd.  The credit-swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has dropped
from 99.4 at the end of November. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Pimco boosted its growth forecast by 1 percentage point to
as much as 3.5 percent after Obama agreed to extend tax cuts
enacted by his predecessor and as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  seeks to reduce unemployment and avert deflation by
buying Treasuries. The  Federal Reserve  has held its benchmark
interest rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent for two years.  “The experience of running fast, or at least running
faster, is something the U.S. economy is finally set to do,”
Kiesel wrote yesterday in a note on the firm’s website.  Stronger growth will benefit banks, secured loans and bonds
and junk-rated debt that may be upgraded to investment-quality,
he wrote.  Tighter Spreads  Spreads on bank debt have tightened 24 basis points
relative to government notes this year, while investment-grade
bonds have narrowed 20 basis points, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show.  Financial companies have sought to recover from the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression by borrowing cheaply
and buying government securities. Since the start of 2007, they
have lost $1.8 trillion worldwide and raised almost $1.6
trillion.  U.S. commercial banks are on pace this year to buy the most
Treasury and agency  debt  since the Fed began tracking the data
in 1950, adding $193 billion of the securities through Dec. 1
and bringing the total to $1.64 trillion.  Asset Sales  Federal regulators demanded Bank of America boost common
equity by $3 billion through asset sales as part of the
company’s accord to repay $45 billion in bailout funds. It sold
assets such as stakes in Mexican and Brazilian banks, recording
$1.9 billion in net gains as of Sept. 30.  The Treasury sold its remaining stock in Citigroup for
$10.5 billion earlier this month, bringing the country’s third-
biggest bank a step closer to independence from the government
following its 2008 bailout.  Citigroup shares have rallied 39 percent this year. The
stock has lost 92 percent from its December 2006 high of $56.41.
Credit default swaps insuring Citigroup debt against default
have dropped 524 basis points from an April 2009 high of 667
basis points, according to data provider CMA.  Banks “have built capital like crazy over the last six
quarters,” Kiesel said. “They raised private sector funds to
pay the government back and then, most importantly, they
organically started to deliver as balance sheets improved and
all that net income didn’t go toward new loans, it went toward
balance sheet repair.”  Bank of America  Bank of America bonds were the most traded U.S. corporate
securities by dealers yesterday, with 224 trades of $1 million
or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Its 5.875 percent
notes due January 2021 priced to yield 5.97 percent, Bloomberg
data show. The debt is likely to be rated A2 by Moody’s, five
levels above speculative grade.  The yield “doesn’t make sense” because it’s comparable to
some junk securities, Kiesel said. Ford Motor Co.’s $1.25
billion of 8.125 percent bonds due January 2020 yield 6 percent,
and are rated Ba2 by Moody’s, or six levels lower, Trace data
show.  U.S. companies have stockpiled $943 billion of cash, up
from $937 billion at the end of 2009 and $775 billion in 2008,
Moody’s said in a report.  “The administration is trying to do what they can to free
up this cash on corporate balance sheets and get it into the
real economy,” Kiesel said. “Unless companies really start to
spend and hire more aggressively, you will not get escape
velocity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Detrixhe  in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  