-- Polish Output Growth Speeds Up in November as German Demand Drives Exports
-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 2010-12-17T13:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/polish-output-growth-speeds-up-in-november-as-german-demand-drives-exports.html
Poland’s  industrial output  grew at a
faster annual rate in November as Germany’s accelerating
recovery boosted demand for exports.  Production increased 10.1 percent from 8 percent in
October, above the 10 percent median forecast of nine economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Output declined 1.3 percent on the month,
the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today.  “With the business climate as it is in Poland and Germany,
I don’t think anyone was afraid output would be getting
weaker,” said  Mateusz Szczurek , the chief economist at ING Bank
Slaski in Warsaw.  Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of
manufacturing, rose in November for a fourth month to the third-
highest reading in the survey’s history as new orders grew the
fastest since May 2004. The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said
today that German  business confidence  climbed this month to the
highest since records for a reunified Germany began in 1991 on
stronger domestic demand. Economists had expected a drop.  Polish  exports  to Germany rose 18.5 percent through
October, while sales to the EU markets increased 18.6 percent in
the first 10 months of this year. At the same time, consumer
demand boosted investments in the third quarter, helping the
 economy  expand 4.2 percent, the fastest pace in two years.  The recovery, combined with high capacity utilization in
industry, should lead to an investment “revival,” particularly
since Polish companies are in “very good” financial shape, the
central bank’s Monetary Policy Council said in the  minutes  of
its November rate meeting, published yesterday.  Construction output growth increased to 14 percent in
November from 9.4 percent in October, a “quite strong” result,
according to ING’s Szczurek. “The question is how much of this
construction growth is linked to private investment.”  An investment revival is what central bank Governor  Marek Belka  “has been waiting for” to begin raising borrowing costs,
Szczurek said.  The three-month forward agreement that investors use to bet
on interest-rate changes traded at 4.25 basis points, or 34
basis points above the  3-month Warsaw Interbank offered rate .
The spread has narrowed from 40 basis points on Dec. 1,
indicating diminishing changes the central bank will increase
rates this month.  The zloty strengthened against the euro to 3.9820 at 2:27
p.m., up 0.2 percent on the day.  Producer prices , an early indicator of inflation trends,
grew 4.6 percent in November from a year earlier, the
statistical office said, faster than October’s 4 percent rise
and the 4.5 percent median forecast of eight economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Factory-gate prices advanced 0.3 on the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Monika Rozlal  in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  