-- Portugal May Get Frozen Out by Bond-Sale `Avalanche' in 2011: Euro Credit
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-17T11:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/portugal-may-get-frozen-out-by-bond-sale-avalanche-in-2011-euro-credit.html
Portugal risks being frozen out of
the bond markets next year amid a wave of auctions from higher-
rated governments and agencies that threaten to force the nation
into seeking a bailout to pay its debts.  “It has become the market consensus that Portugal’s
ability to fund on a standalone basis is fairly constrained,”
said  Jamie Stuttard , head of European and U.K. fixed income at
London-based Schroders Plc, which has $286 billion under
management. “People have investment alternatives.”  Portugal has 11 billion euros of debt payments to make in
the first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Total euro government issues may reach 863 billion euros ($1.1
trillion) next year, said Morgan Stanley strategist  Elaine Lin 
in London. While that’s down from 925 billion euros in 2010, it
is “elevated compared to historical levels,” and higher than
the average from 2000 to 2008, she said.  And while Greece and Ireland won’t borrow in 2011 after
seeking bailouts,  Klaus Regling , who manages the 440 billion-
euro part of the AAA rated European Financial Stability Facility
to finance that aid, plans his first sale of 5 billion euros of
securities in the second half of January.  Analysts at UniCredit SpA in Milan and Paris-based Societe
Generale SA are penciling in zero supply from Portugal next
year, predicting a rescue will be needed to cap borrowing costs.  “The pressure on peripheral spreads should be mounting
again approaching next year’s supply avalanche,”  Norbert Aul , a
fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in
London, wrote in a Dec. 8 investor report.  Portuguese 10-year bonds fell today, heading for the eighth
weekly decline in nine. Spanish bonds were heading for second
week of losses.  Refinancing Needs  Portugal’s refinancing needs, including bills, climb to 12
billion euros after interest in the second quarter, Bloomberg
data show. Spain has about 32 billion euros of obligations in
the first quarter, and 40 billion euros in the second.  “We see a risk that Portugal’s access to funding might dry
up to such an extent that Portugal too might not be able to
avoid going to the European Financial Stability Facility
eventually,”  Laurence Mutkin , Morgan Stanley’s head of European
fixed-income strategy, said in a Dec. 10 research note. The New
York-based bank estimates that Portugal needs to sell 17 billion
euros of government bonds next year.  China Rescue?  Portugal is trying to diversify the investor base that
holds the country’s debt, said  Alberto Soares , president of
Portugal’s government debt agency, in a Nov. 8 interview.  “We have visited Asian investors, including China,” he
said. “We maintain our commitment to source our funding through
the markets.”  Portugal’s borrowing costs jumped on Dec. 15 when the
nation sold three-month bills at an average yield of 3.403
percent, compared with 1.818 percent at a Nov. 3 sale of
similar-maturity debt. The auction attracted bids for 1.9 times
the amount offered, down from 2.2 a month earlier.  Spain sold 2.4 billion euros of bonds yesterday, less than
its maximum target. Its 10-year funding cost jumped to 5.446
percent from 4.615 percent last month, while its 15-year debt
cost was 5.953 percent, compared with 4.541 percent in October.  Standard & Poor’s said Nov. 30 it may cut Portugal’s A-
credit rating. Moody’s Investors Service said this week it may
cut Spain’s rating from Aa1, because its “substantial funding
requirements, not only for the sovereign but also for the
regional governments and the banks, make the country susceptible
to further episodes of funding stress.”  Yield Premiums  The extra yield investors demand to hold Portuguese
government bonds instead of benchmark German securities widened
to 343 basis points today. It reached a euro-era record of 484
basis points on Nov. 11. The yield premium for Irish bonds was
at 538 basis points and investors demand a premium of 250 basis
points to hold Spanish 10-year debt instead of bunds.  The cost of insuring Portuguese debt against default
reached 453 basis points yesterday, up from 439 the day before,
according to CMA prices.  “When you sell bonds, that’s when you’re properly going to
test the market’s appetite to buy your debt,” said  Paul Lambert , head of the global macro team at Polar Capital Holdings
Plc in London. “These bond markets won’t fail because people
are shorting them, they’ll fail because people won’t want to buy
the bonds.”  Societe Generale analysts said in a research report this
month that their predicted total bond sales for 2011 of 823
billion euros include 14 billion euros from the EFSF, and
nothing from Portugal.  Locked Out  UniCredit also said Portugal may be locked out of the
market. “It will be challenging for the European Monetary Union
countries to finance themselves in the primary market,”
strategists  Luca Cazzulani  and  Chiara Cremonesi  said in a Dec. 7
report. “The good news in this respect is that Greece, Ireland
and Portugal should not have to issue anything and this may
benefit -- at least moderately -- other peripheral countries.”  Euro area nations may seek to fulfill 30 percent of their
funding needs in the first quarter of the year, in line with
customary so-called front-loading of debt sales, UniCredit said.  Portugal’s debt amounts to 76 percent of gross domestic
product, compared with 53 percent in Spain, 66 percent in
Ireland and 116 percent in Italy last year. Spending by the
Portuguese government, which lacks a parliamentary majority,
continued to climb in the first 10 months of 2010, Finance
Minister  Fernando Teixeira dos Santos  said on Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  