-- Zimbabwe's Mugabe Says Power-Sharing Can't Continue, Calls For Elections
-- B y   N e l s o n   B a n y a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2010-12-17T14:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/president-mugabe-says-all-zimbabwe-s-elections-must-take-place-next-year.html
Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe 
said the southern African nation’s power-sharing government
can’t continue and that the local assets of British and U.S.
companies may be seized if the West doesn’t lift sanctions.  Mugabe, speaking at a conference of his ruling Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front, called for general
elections next year and an end to the coalition with the
 Movement for Democratic Change . MDC leader  Morgan Tsvangirai ,
who’s also prime minister, wants a referendum on a new
constitution before elections are held.  “We agreed to work together as a Government of National
Unity as a compromise, to sort things out and bring political
stability,” Mugabe, 86, told delegates in the eastern city of
Mutare. “Now some are dragging their feet on elections.”  Mugabe accepted a power-sharing agreement the MDC in
February last year after disputed elections and an economic
collapse that slashed exports, pushed inflation to a record and
drove millions into exile. While the southern African nation has
emerged from a 10- year recession, foreign donors haven’t
committed money. The European Union and the U.S. have maintained
asset freezes and travel bans against Mugabe and some ZANU-PF
members.  Mugabe said it was time to “read the riot act to the
British” over the sanctions and that the government may
nationalize Western companies.  ‘Remove Sanctions’  “We must say we’re taking our 51 percent of their
businesses and unless they remove sanctions, we’ll take 100
percent. This includes companies mining gold and other
minerals,” Mugabe said. “Time has come for us to revenge.”  Mugabe has been vowing to force all foreign-owned companies
to sell 51 percent of their assets in the country to black
Zimbabweans since 2008. The state-controlled Herald said Dec. 12
that a decree to make the acquisitions possible would be signed
within weeks.  British businesses operating in Zimbabwe include  Standard
Chartered Plc ,  Barclays Bank Plc  and  Rio Tinto Plc .  “Why should we continue to have 400 British companies
here?” Mugabe asked. “Why should we continue to have companies
and organizations that are British and American operating freely
here?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nelson Gore Banya  in Mutare via Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Latham  in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 