-- Prince Wails, Weezer, Hawke Onstage, Brandenburg: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/prince-wails-at-msg-weezer-ethan-hawke-bach-s-brandenburg-n-y-weekend.html
You’ll be transported back to the
1990s when Weezer’s power chords ricochet around Roseland
Ballroom tonight.  Clad in his ever-present plaid and retro horn-rims, Rivers
Cuomo is the Peter Pan of the music world -- retaining the same
semi-sad fear of grown-ups, still capable of ripping a few
guitar licks that make you sure all is right in the universe.  To seal in the nostalgic flavor, Weezer will only play
songs from their 1994 debut, “The Blue Album,” and 1996’s
“Pinkerton.”  Even if the wind chill is brutal, Weezer’s sure to have
Slankets for sale.  At 239 W. 52nd St. Information: +1-212-247-0200;
 http://roselandballroom.com .  Saturday  Work up an appetite walking 25 blocks on the East Side,
starting with the splendid show of Impressionist pictures by
 John Singer Sargent  at the Adelson Galleries at 19 E. 82nd St.
These are happy pictures, flooded with flowers, light, beautiful
people.  A few blocks south at Gagosian on 980 Madison Ave. check
out the latest weirdness from  John Currin , whose work melds
Renaissance masters and Norman Rockwell. Ponder the fool in knee
high socks getting measured for hot pants. Is this you in a few
years?  Continue to Eykyn Maclean gallery at 23 East 67th St. for a
museum-quality selection of works by  Alberto Giacometti .  The artist’s tiny Montparnasse studio looks like an
archeological dig in the black and white photos.  Look at “Grande tete mince,” in which brother Diego’s
head is compressed into a pancake-like form, with awkwardly
protruding lips, nose, chin and ears. Another gaunt and tortured
head from the same edition fetched $53.3 million at Christie’s
in New York in May.  Finish up in the grove of neon lights by Robert Irwin at
the Pace Gallery at 32 E. 57 St.  “Way Out West” includes six suites of vertical
fluorescent tubes, most wrapped in sheets of color gel, ranging
from solid black to heavenly blue, with striped, transparent and
unlit ones thrown in the mix. Some tubes reflect light, others
absorb it.  The result: Exquisite combinations that blend color, light,
painting and sculpture.  Then settle into a soft booth and be restored by a
Cranberry Margarita, followed by black winter truffle risotto at
the classy  Rouge Tomate .  10 E. 60th St. Information: +1-646-237-8977.  Singer Sargent runs through Dec. 18. Information:
 http://www.adelsongalleries.com .  John Currin runs through Dec. 23. Information:
 http://www.gagosian.com .  “In Giacometti’s Studio” runs through Dec. 18.
Information:  http://www.eykynmaclean.com .  Irwin runs through Jan. 29, 2011. Information:
 http://thepacegallery.com .  Saturday Afternoon  Get close and personal with  Ethan Hawke  when you take in
the matinee of “Blood From a Stone.”  He plays Travis, the son who left his working-class family
behind, or so he thought. When he goes back home for a visit,
all hell breaks loose.  The artist-driven New Group, where Hawke also directs, is
producing the world premiere run of Tommy Nohilly’s play.  In previews at the intimate Acorn Theater, 410 West 42nd
Street. Opens Jan. 6. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.thenewgroup.org .  Saturday Evening  Be catapulted back in time when you shiver and slither to
Prince’s wailing.  He of the Cipher is playing at Madison Square Garden as
part of his “Welcome 2 America” tour.  The Purple One himself says, “Bring your friends, bring
your children and bring foot spray, because it’s going to be
funky.”  Also Dec. 29 and Jan. 18. 4 Pennsylvania Plaza.
Information:  http://www.thegarden.com .  Sunday Morning  Join the Episcopal congregation of St. Thomas Church for
the annual Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols.  In the darkened space, you’ll hear the first notes, sung by
a boy soprano, of the ravishing “Once in Royal David’s City”
float from the back of the nave, as the procession of clergy and
chorus advances down the center aisle.  Nine lessons tell the story of humanity’s fall, the promise
of redemption and the birth of baby Jesus, each followed by
music; “O Come, All Ye Faithful” is sung by all at the close.  Contemplate the beauty of the church, built in French High
Gothic style, with its glorious reredos, one of the largest in
the world.  At 1 W. 53rd St. Information: +1-757-7013;
 http://www.saintthomaschurch.org .  Sunday Afternoon  Grab the chance to hear all six of Bach’s Brandenburg
Concertos, the jewel in the crown of Baroque music.  Elegant and exuberant, the pieces give even the virtuosic
players of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center a total
workout.  The second concerto was put on a gold record on Voyager 1.
Launched in 1977, Voyager is now on the verge of leaving the
solar system and entering interstellar space. We’re bragging.  At 5 p.m. Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, 1941 Broadway
at 65th St. Also Dec. 21 at 7:30 p.m. Information: +1-212-875-
5788;  http://www.chambermusicsociety.org .  (With assistance from  Manuela Hoelterhoff ,  Katya Kazakina 
and  Lili Rosboch .  Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 