-- Provincial Bond Sales Back to Pre-Crisis Levels in Long End: Canada Credit
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2010-12-17T05:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/provincial-long-term-bond-sales-return-to-normal-canada-credit.html
Canada’s provincial long-term bond
issuance programs are returning to pre-crisis levels as issuers
take advantage of record demand and historically low  borrowing
costs  to secure funding.  Provincial governments issued C$21 billion ($20.9 billion)
of bonds with a term to maturity of 11 years or longer this
year, 35 percent of total issuance, according to Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce data. That’s up from 13 percent in
2009. Long-term issues typically made up about 40 percent of
total sales prior to the financial crisis, according to CIBC.  “Provincial issuers want to extend the term of their debt
at what has been historic low interest rates,”  Marc Rouleau , a
fund manager who helps oversee about C$20 billion in bonds at
Standard Life Investments in Montreal, said via e-mail. “For
them it’s the cheapest time to take on debt in the long term.”  Rouleau cited the generic Ontario 30-year bond yield, which
Bloomberg data show hit 4.256 percent on Oct. 29, the lowest
since the figures began being collected in March 1992.  Foreign investors are returning to longer-term debt amid
growing appetite for risk, while issuers are seeking to find
buyers for long-term debt before interest rates increase. Canada
is also benefiting from the soundness of its economy versus
other Group of Seven nations at a time when investors are
concerned about European sovereign debt and a weak U.S. economy.  Statistics Canada reported yesterday that foreign
investment in both provincial and Canadian federal government
bonds in the first 10 months of this year have surpassed any
previous annual records.  ‘Unprecedented’ Supply  “The simple fact of the matter is that in 2010, we saw
unprecedented long supply,” said  Warren Lovely , a government
bonds strategist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto, adding that
this year’s C$21 billion worth of long-term issues is a record.
“Long-term funding remains extremely attractive by historic
standards, and I would expect a number of provincial issuers to
remain focused on the long end.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, Canada Housing Trust sold C$6
billion in five-year bonds, Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  urged
provinces to eliminate budget deficits by 2015 and economists
predicted in a Bloomberg survey that inflation slowed in
November to an annual pace of 2.3 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian corporations rather than the federal government
remained at 142 basis points yesterday, or 1.42 percentage
points, unchanged from Dec. 15, according to a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. Corporate bonds are up 6.1 percent this
year, compared with 7.7 percent for U.S. corporate bonds and 2.9
percent for global corporates.  Housing Trust  The C$6 billion worth of bonds sold by Canada Housing
Trust, the financing arm of the federal housing agency, mature
in December 2015. The 2.75 percent debt was priced to yield 26.5
basis points over federal benchmarks.  Consumer prices rose at an annual pace of 2.3 percent last
month, Statistics Canada is likely to say Dec. 21 in Ottawa,
according to the median of six economists’ forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey. The pace was 2.4 percent in October.  Flaherty, at a press conference in Ottawa yesterday, urged
his provincial counterparts to balance their budgets. He’s
scheduled to meet with the provincial finance ministers Dec. 19-
20 in Kananaskis, Alberta, near Calgary.  The federal finance minister is seeking to make Canada the
first G-7 country to balance its budget by 2015, even as he cuts
corporate income taxes and faces a weak global recovery that
threatens to slow revenue. Flaherty has pledged to eliminate
Canada’s deficit through spending restraint.  Provincial Bond Markets  In provincial bond markets, relative yields stayed at 52
basis points as yields fell to 3.31 percent, from 3.35 percent
yesterday according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. The
bonds have advanced 7.1 percent this year, after gains of 3.7
percent and 6.8 percent in the previous two years.  Average yields on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Canadian Provincial and Municipal Index for bonds maturing in 15
years or longer reached 4.18 percent on Oct. 25, the lowest
level since at least 1992.  “It makes a lot of sense for issuers to print and lock in
financing at this cheaper cost,”  Jean-Francois Godin , an
analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc. in Montreal, said in a
telephone interview.  Last year, “provinces had to issue shorter-term since
there was a lot of uncertainty, so investors wanted to have
shorter maturities,” Godin said.  Canada, which is carrying less debt than other G-7
countries and whose banks largely escaped the financial crisis,
has been seen as a haven for investors. Non-residents have added
C$36.5 billion of federal government bonds in the first 10
months of this year, and C$20.1 billion of provincial government
bonds, both records, Statistics Canada said yesterday.  “Canada continues to be seen as a safe harbor of sorts,”
said  Stewart Hall , an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Toronto.
“Arguably, investors see Canada as U.S. dollars without all the
baggage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Theophilos Argitis  in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Fournier  in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  