-- Qatar World Cup to Spur Loans Rebound From Five-Year Low: Islamic Finance
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2010-12-19T08:06:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/qatar-world-cup-to-spur-loans-rebound-from-five-year-low-islamic-finance.html
Islamic loans in the Middle East
will rebound in 2011 from a five-year low, said HSBC Holdings
Plc, this year’s biggest lender, as accelerating economic growth
and Qatar’s building for the soccer World Cup boosts spending.  Syndicated loans dropped 18 percent this year to $6.5
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Loans peaked
at $24 billion in 2007, before the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression. Borrowers from the Middle East dominated
the market in 2010, receiving all but one of the 14 loans
tracked by Bloomberg in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  “We have a number of transactions in the pipeline” which
may close in the first half of next year,  Mohammed Dawood ,
Dubai-based director of debt capital markets at HSBC Amanah,
said in a telephone interview from Abu Dhabi on Dec. 15. “We’ll
definitely do more loan deals in 2011 compared to this year.”  The debt restructuring in September of Dubai World, one of
the emirate’s three main holding companies, helped restore
confidence, said  John Tofarides , a banking analyst at Moody’s
Investors Service. Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s announced a
combined nine upgrades this quarter for the region, outnumbering
the pair’s downgrades for the first time since the three months
ended June 30, 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks in the United Arab Emirates have improved their
financial position by lowering debt-to-equity levels, Dubai-
based Tofarides said in an interview Dec. 16. A slump in U.A.E.
property prices and canceled investment projects deterred
lenders this year, he said.  ‘Sustainable Growth’  “We expect to see more mature and sustainable loan growth
in the U.A.E., especially in Dubai which was at the epicenter of
the property crisis,” said Tofarides. “We don’t expect to see
pre-crisis lending growth levels again because that was
triggered by excess liquidity and a totally different perception
on credit risk.”  HSBC was the biggest arranger among 36 lenders for Islamic
financing this year in Europe, the Middle East and Africa,
lending $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Standard Chartered Plc was second with $914 million.  Dubai World agreed with creditors to alter terms on $24.9
billion of liabilities. Concern the company would default on its
debt contributed to a 24 percent drop in sales of Islamic bonds,
or sukuk, which pay assets returns to comply with the religion’s
ban on interest, to $15.1 billion this year.  Europe Crisis  The extent of the recovery in the Shariah-compliant loan
market next year will depend on the size of regional development
projects and whether Europe can avoid further contagion from its
debt crisis, Moinuddin Malim, chief executive officer at Dubai-
based Mashreq Al Islamic, said in an interview Dec. 16.  Moody’s said on Dec. 15 it may cut Spain’s Aa1 credit
rating on concern it will join Greece and Ireland in seeking a
bailout from the European Union. Spain was already reduced by
Moody’s in September.  “We expect the majority of the projects to come out of
Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi next year,” Malim said.
“Banks in the region may assume that the worst is behind them
and are more likely to participate in syndicated loans.”  Saudi Electricity Co. , the state-controlled utility, signed
a 5 billion-riyal ($1.3 billion) Islamic finance agreement with
National Commercial Bank, Saudi British Bank,  Banque Saudi
Fransi  and Samba Financial Group on Dec. 13.  Abu Dhabi Islamic
Bank PJSC  was lead arranger for 1.14 billion dirhams ($310
million) of syndicated Islamic financing for Majid Al Futtaim
Group, the bank said in an e-mailed statement Dec. 14.  Gulf Growth  Economic growth in the Middle East and North Africa will
accelerate to 4.1 percent this year and 5.1 percent in 2011,
from 2 percent last year, the International Monetary Fund said
Oct. 6.  Qatar’s economy will expand 20 percent next year, the IMF
said last week. Getting the Persian Gulf sheikhdom ready for the
2022 world cup, the most-watched sporting event around the
globe, will cost as much as $65 billion, Merrill Lynch
estimates.  Shariah-compliant bonds returned 1.1 percent this month,
while debt in developing markets dropped 1.2 percent, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  EMBI Global Diversified Index  shows.  The spread between the average yield for sukuk and the
London interbank offered rate narrowed 61 basis points this
month to 300 as of Dec. 17, according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai
US Dollar Sukuk Index .  The extra yield investors demand to hold Dubai’s dollar
sukuk rather than Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic note due June
2015 has narrowed 42 basis points to 349 in December, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on Dubai’s 6.396
percent sukuk maturing in November 2014 dropped 2.2 basis points
to 6.57 percent on Dec. 17, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dana El Baltaji  in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
 Soraya Permatasari  in Kuala Lumpur
at   soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  