-- QR Energy's $300 Million IPO Finishes Week of Nine U.S. Public Offerings
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2010-12-17T22:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/qr-energy-s-300-million-ipo-finishes-week-of-nine-u-s-public-offerings.html
QR Energy LP, the Houston-based
company formed to acquire oil and gas properties, raised $300
million in its U.S. initial public offering after selling shares
at the middle of its forecast range.  QR Energy sold 15 million  units  at $20 each yesterday after
offering them at $19 to $21 apiece, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Fortegra Financial Corp.  also completed its $66 million
sale after chopping the IPO 46 percent, while Ventrus
Biosciences Inc. raised $17.4 million.  Nine companies completed U.S. IPOs this week, the most in
almost two months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. QR Energy’s
sale comes after  Targa Resources Corp.  and Chesapeake Midstream
Partners LP gained more than 20 percent since their IPOs this
year, according to Bloomberg data.  The performance of energy-related IPOs has “been quite
positive, and I think that’s helping this deal as well,” said
 Josef Schuster , the Chicago-based founder of IPOX Capital
Management LLC, which oversees $3 billion.  Wells Fargo & Co.  of San Francisco, New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Raymond James Financial Inc. of St. Petersburg,
Florida, and Toronto-based Royal Bank of Canada led the offering
for QR Energy. The company will use the proceeds from the IPO
and borrowings from a credit facility to make a cash payment to
QR Energy’s existing owners and repay debt, its prospectus said.  Today’s Trading  QR Energy intends to pay an annual dividend of $1.65 per
share, according to its SEC filing. That would amount to 8.25
percent of its IPO price of $20 a share. The payout is about
quadruple the dividend yield for companies in the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index , data compiled by Bloomberg show. U.S.
benchmark interest rates are currently near zero.  QR Energy  fell  2 percent to close at $19.60 in trading on
the New York Stock Exchange.  Targa Resources , a natural-gas pipeline company that was
controlled by Warburg Pincus LLC, has advanced 24 percent since
its $360 million initial offering this month. The Houston-based
company has an indicated dividend yield of 3.52 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chesapeake Midstream , a pipeline operator owned by the
second-largest U.S. natural gas producer, Chesapeake Energy
Corp., has gained 27 percent since its $513 million IPO in July.
The Oklahoma City-based company has an indicated dividend yield
of 5.12 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Different Ballgame’  “It’s a yield play,” said IPOX Capital’s Schuster.
“That’s a different ballgame than a traditional IPO.”  Fortegra, the Jacksonville, Florida-based insurance
services company, priced 6 million shares at $11 each yesterday
after failing to complete a 7.7 million offering at $14 to $16
apiece, Bloomberg data show.  Ventrus  of New York sold 2.9 million shares for $6 each
after offering 2.8 million at $6 to $7 apiece, its SEC filing
and data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company intends to use
the proceeds to conduct clinical trials, develop drugs and repay
debt, the prospectus said.  Fortegra was  unchanged  at $11.00 in NYSE trading.  Ventrus 
 gained  5 percent to $6.30 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  A total of 192 companies have sold $47.8 billion of shares
in U.S. initial offerings this year, more than double the $20.2
billion raised in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
that excludes sales from over-allotment options.  The amount is the highest since $87.6 billion in IPOs were
completed in 2007, when the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index , the
benchmark gauge of American equity, climbed to an all-time high.
Take away Detroit-based  General Motors Co.’s  sale of common
shares last month and the 2010 total decreases to $32 billion.  Swift Transportation Co.  of Phoenix completed the second-
largest U.S. IPO of the year behind GM this week, selling $806
million of shares. The biggest truckload carrier in North
America raised about 20 percent less than originally sought.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lee Spears  in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net . 