-- U.S. Judge Orders Transocean to Turn Over Records
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-12-18T00:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/transocean-ordered-by-judge-to-turn-over-safety-records-to-u-s-government.html
Transocean Ltd. , the owner of the
Deepwater Horizon oil rig that exploded and sank in the Gulf of
Mexico in April, must turn over safety records to the U.S.
government, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans today
ordered the Vernier, Switzerland-based firm to turn over records
pertaining to any other rigs or vessels it had in the gulf on
the date of the accident, which caused the biggest offshore oil
spill in the U.S.  Richard Hymel, a  Transocean  lawyer, called the request “a
fishing expedition” for records that were “irrelevant” to the
incident. The company already produced safety records for the
Deepwater Horizon, he told Barbier at today’s hearing.  “Don’t they have pretty broad authority?” Barbier
replied, referring to a joint panel of the U.S. Coast Guard and
the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement. The U.S. sued to obtain the records on Nov. 23.  The April 20 explosion aboard the Transocean rig, perched
above a well owned by London-based  BP Plc. , killed 11 workers.  The U.S. wants to learn whether the problems that led to
the Deepwater Horizon explosion are isolated or systemic, Sharon
D. Smith, a Justice Department lawyer, told the judge today.  Barbier gave the offshore oil services company 15 days to
comply with his order, which also requires it to produce safety
audits of its vessels from 1998 to 2010.  Transocean’s ‘Focus’  “Our focus is on finding the cause, preventing future
accidents and improving industry standards,” Transocean said
today in an e-mailed statement. “While we do not believe this
ruling and discovery will advance those goals, we will, as
always, respect and comply with the court’s instructions.”  The U.S. Justice Department on Dec. 15 sued BP,  Transocean 
and two other companies alleging they violated the federal Clean
Water Act. The government is also seeking a finding the
companies are liable under federal law for unspecified damages.  “No drilling contractor has ever been held liable for
discharges from a well under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990,”
 Guy Cantwell , a Transocean spokesman, said Dec. 15 about the
U.S. lawsuit filed that day. “The responsibility for
hydrocarbons discharged from a well lies solely with its owner
and operator.”  The case is U.S. vs. Transocean Holdings LLC, 2:10-cv-
04397, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Allen Johnson Jr.  in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 