-- Rape Victims Ask, Military Won’t Tell on Assaults: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-12-17T02:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/rape-victims-ask-military-won-t-tell-on-crimes-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
When a woman volunteers for the U.S.
 military , she gives up the comfort, safety and freedom of
civilian life. This she expects, as do men.  Serving her country shouldn’t mean doubling her likelihood
of being sexually assaulted, or, if she is, lowering the chance
that the offender will be punished. But that’s what the military
means for women, according to the  Service Women’s Action
Network .  What the Pentagon gives out in the way of this sort of
information shows only a slice of reality, says Anuradha
Bhagwati, a former Marine and the executive director of the
servicewomen’s group, which is based in New York.  Her group has gone to  court  with its claim that the
departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs are stonewalling its
request for more data.  A Defense Department press officer, Major Monica Bland,
wouldn’t address the litigation specifically but acknowledged
the problem.  “Much work remains to be done,” Bland said by e-mail, and
“the Department is committed to the goals of preventing sexual
assault, increasing reporting, and improving DoD response to the
crime.”  The servicewomen’s group puts it this way in its lawsuit:
“Sexual assault pervades the ranks of the American military.”
The American Civil Liberties  Union  and its Connecticut chapter
are also plaintiffs in the case, filed in federal court in
Connecticut.  Records Wanted  They want records, on mistreatment ranging from sexual
harassment to rape, that will better reveal the frequency and
circumstances, the prosecution of cases and the treatment given
victims, who often suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder.  The various branches of the armed forces define, count,
track and report incidents differently. Because of that, the
annual reports Congress requires of the Defense Department can’t
tell the full picture. Letters from the servicewomen’s
organization to agencies within Defense and the VA produced few
records, so the group filed suit this week.  The idea that members and veterans of the U.S. military
would have to go to court to get this information is astounding.
Where is  Julian Assange  when he’s really needed?  Even incomplete, the numbers that are available are
disturbing enough.  Surveys in recent years show that roughly one in three
servicewomen say they were sexually assaulted during their time
in the military. Of those who say they were raped, 14 percent
said they were gang-raped, according to a survey reported by the
American Journal of Industrial Medicine in 2003.  Fear of Reprisal  As hesitant as sexual-assault victims in civilian life are
to report the crime, it’s worse in the military. Fear of
reprisal, uncertainty over what will result, and the military
structure and mindset all discourage victims from reporting.  Still, either reporting is getting better or sexual
predation is getting worse in the services. A Defense Department
 report  released this week shows sexual assaults at the military
service academies are up.  And, citing Defense Department figures, the lawsuit says
the number of sexual assaults within the armed services rose 73
percent from 2004 to 2006 and 11 percent from 2008 to 2009.  While the government has made it easier for servicemen and
servicewomen to get help for post-traumatic stress disorder, the
improvements won’t do much to help victims of sexual
mistreatment, according to Bhagwati. The veteran with combat-
related PTSD no longer has to prove a precise link between his
condition and a specific episode. But victims of sexual assault
have to show they were assaulted, hard to do in a system where
records are often not kept.  Widespread Trauma  And yet, 71 percent of female veterans seeking VA
disability benefits for PTSD have been sexually traumatized,
says the lawsuit.  Already we know enough to recognize a very serious problem.
And it seems to be getting worse, even after high-profile
promises to protect service members against sexual predators,
increased reporting and more educational programs, and
recommendations to standardize reporting and create environments
where victims feel safe to report and offenders fear the
consequences.  So it’s no surprise that while about 40 percent of those
accused of sexual assault in the civilian world get prosecuted,
only 8 percent of military sex offenders do.  ‘Loses a Stripe’  “Maybe somebody loses a stripe or gets some counseling,”
Bhagwati says. “Some are literally transferred out of unit
without any written paperwork.”  Consider the case of three enlisted sailors who were
discharged from the Navy after the rape of a female midshipman
enrolled at Annapolis.  During a cruise with classmates, she and nine other
midshipmen left the ship for a party in a sailor’s apartment.
The other midshipmen eventually left her behind with three
enlisted sailors, at least one of whom raped her, according to
the new report on sexual violence at military academies.  The sailors’ punishment was discharge, not civilian
prosecution.  Surely the worldwide sex scandal involving some Catholic
priests taught that you can’t handle these things internally and
let the predator move someplace else to prey on the unaware.  Protecting servicemen and servicewomen from sexual
mistreatment, whether harassment, assault or rape, is hard
enough when you know precisely what’s going on.  But until there’s enough information to know that, it
simply can’t get much better.  And no one signs up for that.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  