-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Head for Third Weekly Drop on U.S. Recovery Signs
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-17T12:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/treasuries-are-set-for-third-weekly-decline-yields-near-seven-month-high.html
Treasury 10-year notes were poised
for their third weekly drop, the longest stretch of declines
since September, as evidence the U.S. economy is recovering
reduced demand for the safety of government debt.  The  yield  touched a seven-month high this week on
speculation an extension of U.S. tax cuts will stimulate the
economy and widen the budget deficit and as the Fed said the
recovery is continuing. German business confidence unexpectedly
rose to a record in December, a report showed today.  “Recent reports suggest the U.S. economic recovery is
gaining some traction,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “For now,
these reports seem to allay fears of a double-dip recession.
That might be negative for Treasuries in the near term.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note increased this week
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.41 percent as
of 7:38 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The
price of the 2.625 percent security maturing in November 2020
dropped 22/32, or $6.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 93 14/32.  The 10-year yield was little changed today after touching
3.56 percent yesterday, the highest level since May 13. The last
time 10-year  yields  dropped for three straight weeks was on
Sept. 10. Ten-year notes are headed for a 6.2 percent gain this
year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  An index of U.S. leading economic indicators probably
increased in November by the most in eight months, a signal the
expansion will strengthen early next year, economists said
before a report today.  Leading Indicators  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 1.1 percent after increasing 0.5
percent in each of the previous two months, according to the
median forecast of 59 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The U.S. economy grew 2.8 percent in the third quarter from
a year earlier, faster than the 2.5 percent estimate issued last
month, according to the median forecast of 24 economists before
the Commerce Department’s report on Dec. 22.  The House of Representatives voted 277-148 for final
passage on the tax-cut agreement, accepting the deal that
President  Barack Obama  negotiated with congressional
Republicans.  The Munich-based Ifo institute said its German business
climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased
to 109.9 from 109.3 in November. That’s the highest since
records for a reunified Germany began in 1991. Economists
predicted a drop to 109, the median of 36 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey shows.  Ireland’s Rating Cut  Shorter-dated Treasuries notes rose briefly after Moody’s
Investors Service lowered Ireland’s credit rating five levels to
Baa1 from Aa2. That’s three levels above non-investment grade
and the same level as countries including Russia and Lithuania.
The outlook on the rating is “negative,” Moody’s said.  “Treasuries have potential to rise further” as there’s
likely to be “more safety flows into next year,” said  Glenn Marci , a fixed-income strategist at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt.
Treasury gains were also “related to the new rescue mechanism.
The market is looking at this deal and thinking there isn’t
enough detail about how they are going to solve the problem,”
Marci said.  European Union leaders agreed to amend the bloc’s treaties
to create a permanent crisis-management mechanism in 2013, with
Germany refusing to boost the current 750 billion-euro
($1 trillion) emergency fund for the most indebted countries.  Fed’s Decision  Fed officials maintained following its Dec. 14 meeting its
$600 billion second round of quantitative easing, saying the
economic expansion hasn’t been strong enough to reduce
joblessness. The central bank repeated its pledge to leave the
benchmark interest rate low for an “extended period.”  The central bank will acquire $1.5 billion to $2.5 billion
of Treasuries maturing from August 2028 to November 2040 today
to help cap borrowing costs, according to its  website . The
purchases are part of $105 billion in debt buying over a month.  BNP Paribas SA, the world’s biggest bank by assets,
increased its forecast for 10-year yields, predicting they will
climb to 3.75 percent by the end of 2011 and reach 4.6 percent a
year later.  “QE2 is a commitment to create inflation and, among other
things, should exert upward pressure on 10-year yields,”
analysts led by  Paul Mortimer-Lee , London-based global head of
market economics at BNP, wrote in a report yesterday.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE  index , which measures
volatility in Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter
options maturing in 2 to 30 years, rose on Dec. 15 to 125.20,
the highest level since September 2009.  Record-low bond yields in the global market are
“susceptible to a sudden reversal,” the Bank of England said
in its Financial Stability Report released today.  An “abrupt snap back” in bond yields may destabilize the
market as happened in 1994, the bank said, referring to a bond
sell-off when the prospect of rising inflation led the Federal
Reserve to begin tightening monetary policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  