-- Reinsurance Rates Are Poised to Fall `A Bit' Next Year, Hannover Re Says
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2010-12-17T07:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/reinsurance-rates-are-poised-to-fall-a-bit-next-year-hannover-re-says.html
Hannover Re , the world’s third-
biggest reinsurer, said rates may decline in 2011 as this year’s
claims weren’t severe enough to turn the market.  “Our expectation for reinsurance rates in property and
casualty reinsurance to fall a bit in 2011 has been confirmed so
far in our renewal talks,” said  Juergen Graeber , the management
board member responsible for specialty lines such as aviation
and space, offshore energy as well as credit, surety and
political risks. “We are still on a technically adequate level
that allows us to earn our costs of capital.”  Hannover Re last month raised its 2010 profit target to
more than 700 million euros ($925 million) and aims to post net
income of about 650 million euros in 2011. The biggest claim for
the insurance industry this year was the Chile earthquake in
February with estimated insured losses of $8 billion, according
to  Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer.  “At year-end 2010 reinsurer capital has grown to record
high levels,” reinsurance broker Aon Benfield said in a Dec. 16
statement. “Reinsurance supply will continue to outpace demand,
putting further downward pressure on rates.”  Hannover Re, which expanded credit and surety reinsurance
when primary trade-credit insurers such as  Euler Hermes SA  or
 Coface SA  were hit by a rise in bankruptcies during the economic
slump, seeks to expand the unit at  “a high single-digit or low
double-digit” rate in 2011, Graeber said in the interview.  Trade-credit insurers, which protect payments to sellers
when buyers can’t meet obligations, help cover more than $2
trillion of receivables worldwide, according to the
 International Credit Insurance & Surety Association . In turn,
they seek protection by passing some of the business on to
reinsurers such as Hannover Re or Munich Re.  Credit and Surety  Hannover Re, based in Hanover, Germany, expects premium
income in its credit and surety division to rise to about 600
million euros this year from 480 million euros in 2009.  “Customers won’t withdraw the capacity we gave them in
times of need even as the market has moved from a 40 percent
capacity to about 150 percent by now,” Graeber said.  The reinsurer is closely watching developments in U.S.
casualty reinsurance, according to Graeber, who said that rates
in the segment, which includes directors’ and officers’
insurance, workers’ compensation and product liability coverage,
aren’t fully factoring in the anticipated rise in inflation and
the low interest rates. “Therefore, the market will be loss-
making in about two years, which should lead to a turnaround in
prices and generate fresh opportunities.”  Hannover Re reduced premiums in U.S. casualty reinsurance
to about 500 million euros from 1.2 billion euros at the peak in
2003 and 2004, according to the manager. The reinsurer also sees
“huge potential” in a new form of insurance for energy savings
guarantees in the U.S., which Hannover Re developed with
Delaware-based Energi Holdings, to help cover energy-improving
upgrades to buildings, Graeber said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Suess  in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  