-- Democrat Van Hollen Says Republicans Face Battle on Push for Budget Cuts
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2010-12-18T05:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/republicans-facing-a-fight-over-u-s-budget-cuts-democrat-van-hollen-says.html
Representative  Chris Van Hollen , set
to become the top Democrat on the U.S. House Budget Committee,
said Republicans face a fight over plans to cut billions in
spending if targeted programs include education and health
research.  “If they’re talking about just slashing our investments in
things like education, or our national investments in trying to
find cures to cancer, which benefit every American family, then
I think we’re going to have a real battle over priorities,” Van
Hollen, 51, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  Republicans will find their cuts hard to defend after they
pushed for tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans, including a
provision that gives $23 billion in relief to the biggest
estates, Van Hollen said. Those provisions were part of the tax-
cut and spending bill that President  Barack Obama  signed into
law yesterday.  Republicans, who had a net gain of 63 House seats in
November’s elections and take control of the chamber next month,
have promised to cut domestic spending by $100 billion to help
address the $1.3 trillion  budget deficit .  “You don’t cut that dramatically when the economy is
down,” Van Hollen said.  While Obama’s $858 billion deal with Republican leaders to
extend all the Bush-era tax cuts for two years shows divisions
over policy between the White House and House Democrats, it
doesn’t harm Obama’s standing with his party, said Van Hollen,
of Maryland.  Angry Democrats  Many Democrats fumed over Obama’s tax deal with Republican
leaders that betrayed campaign promises not to continue tax cuts
for the wealthiest Americans. The White House failed to directly
notify Democratic leaders of the agreement before it was
publicized.  “I think the concerns you hear are less with the process
and more with some of the substantive changes,” Van Hollen
said.  He said he pushed for having Congress deal with the tax-cut
issue before the election. Van Hollen said the White House
rejected his recommendation to extend tax-cuts for all income
levels for a year while also providing “permanent relief for
middle-class Americans.” Such an approach “would have
decoupled” the dispute over who should continue to get the tax
cuts.  House, Senate Votes  The House on a bipartisan vote of 277-148 passed Dec. 16
the legislation that extends through 2012 all Bush-era tax
reductions on income, capital gains and dividends. The Senate
passed its version of the measure Dec. 15 by a vote of 81-19.  The measure continues expanded unemployment insurance
benefits through 2011, cuts payroll taxes by 2 percentage points
during 2011 and lets businesses write off 100 percent of capital
investments between Sept. 9, 2010, and Dec. 31, 2011. Obama
agreed on the plan with Republicans on Dec. 6.  House Democrats unsuccessfully pushed to raise the estate
tax from a top rate of 35 percent to be applied after an
exemption of $5 million per person, to 45 percent with a $3.5
million per person tax-free allowance.  On the issue of restructuring the tax system, Van Hollen
said it’s necessary that any plan will have to include some mix
of revenue-raising measures along with spending cuts.  “You cannot permanently extend tax breaks for the folks at
the very top,” he said. Obama has made clear he will make “a
big issue” of having more revenue coming in from the biggest
earners, he said.  Exploring Options  Obama has directed his economic team to begin analyzing
options for overhauling the U.S. tax code as part of an effort
to trim the long-term deficit.  The president said this month that revamping the nation’s
tax system will have to be considered to deal with budget
deficits and make the tax code more “fair” and “efficient.”  Van Hollen, who led his party’s House campaign effort this
year and in 2008, said that when Republicans take control in
January they should limit their investigations of the
administration to “legitimate oversight” and not “try and gum
up the works of government, to try and do finger-pointing, even
when there’s nothing to be pointed at.”  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican set to
become chairman of the House Oversight Committee, has accused
Obama of “playing faster and looser with the rules” than
former Republican President  George W. Bush . Issa also has called
for tougher, more frequent scrutiny of the Federal Reserve.  “What I think would be a big mistake is if they went on
this sort of big fishing expedition, and I don’t think that the
American taxpayer wants that kind of effort,” Van Hollen said.  On the war in Afghanistan, Van Hollen said recent reports
on the progress of the war “raise concern.”  “Every American has to be concerned that we don’t seem to
be making more progress,” he said. “We’re going to take a very
close look at this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  