-- Congress Seeks Temporary Fix After Spending Bill Killed
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-18T02:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/republican-opposition-kills-1-2-trillion-omnibus-u-s-spending-measure.html
Lawmakers are patching together a
temporary spending bill to avert a government shutdown after
Republicans killed a $1.2 trillion “omnibus” measure that was
loaded with the pet projects known as earmarks.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  abandoned the omnibus
bill yesterday after several Republicans he had been counting on
withdrew their support for  the plan , which would have funded
government programs and agencies through Sept. 30, 2011. The
Nevada Democrat said lawmakers would instead write a short-term
funding bill, known as a continuing resolution, though he didn’t
say how long it would last.  The House today approved, by voice vote, legislation that
would keep the government running until Dec. 21 while lawmakers
negotiate a longer-term extension. Several hours later, the
Senate agreed by unanimous consent to approve the resolution. A
stopgap measure currently funding the government expires
tomorrow.  The moves mean that federal agencies could go roughly
halfway through their 2011 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1,
before updated budgets are approved. Another stopgap measure
also would set the stage for a spending fight early next year
between President  Barack Obama ’s administration and Republicans,
who will control the House in the new Congress and who have
promised to slash spending by $100 billion.  Competing Timetables  White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said the
administration prefers a continuing resolution that would fund
the agencies for the duration of the government’s fiscal year.
Reid said yesterday that he doesn’t have the votes for that, and
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  wants the funding
extended only through Feb. 18.  The decision to pull the omnibus measure was a victory for
Republicans, who lined up against the bill even though most had
included in it funding for projects in their home states.
Republicans complained they were only given days to consider the
1,924-page measure, which was introduced Dec. 14.  Reid “doesn’t have the votes, and the reason he doesn’t
have the votes is because members on this side of the aisle
increasingly felt concerned about the way we do business,” said
McConnell, a Kentucky Republican.  “For many of our members, it was not so much the substance
of the bill but the process” that spurred opposition, he said.  ‘Great, Great Victory’  Critics of earmarks hailed the bill’s defeat. “This is a
great, great victory for the American people,” said Senator
 John McCain , an Arizona Republican. “I want to thank those that
made the calls, those that sent e-mails, those that stood up and
called into the talk shows all over America and said, ‘We’ve had
enough.’”  Democrats, who control the Senate with 58 votes, needed to
pick up the support of at least three Republicans to overcome
stalling tactics after Senator  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri
Democrat, announced her opposition to the bill.  Utah Republican Senator  Bob Bennett  had announced he would
support the measure, while Ohio Republican  George Voinovich  had
said he was leaning toward backing it. Both lawmakers leave
office when the new Congress convenes in early January.  Reid said last night that though he had been counting on
support from as many as nine Republicans, “in the last 24 hours,
they’ve walked away.” Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman
 Daniel Inouye , a Hawaii Democrat, said Republicans sank a bill
they had helped write and after his colleagues dropped billions
from the measure to meet their demands to reduce spending.  ‘Hypocrite’ Charge  The earmark issue prompted sharp debate among lawmakers,
with Reid calling Republicans hypocrites for threatening to
torpedo the omnibus bill while failing to rescind earmarks they
included in it.  “If you went to ‘H’ in a dictionary and found ‘hypocrite,’
under that would be people who ask for earmarks but vote against
them,” he told reporters.  All but a handful of lawmakers in both parties had
requested about $8 billion in earmarks in the bill. McConnell
had secured more than $100 million in such projects, according
to the Washington-based budget watchdog group Taxpayers for
Common Sense.  The derailing of the omnibus bill, which included about
$160 billion to fund the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and also
included a food-safety measure, is the latest in a series of
breakdowns this year in the congressional budgeting process.
Democrats failed to approve an annual tax-and-spending blueprint
or any of the 12 annual appropriations bills needed to fund
agencies for the 2011 fiscal year.  “There’s no more basic work than the funding of the
government -- that’s the first thing we ought to be doing,”
McConnell said. “As a result of not doing the basic work of
government, here we are, at the end, struggling with this
issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  