-- RIM Climbs After Predicting Profit That Tops Estimates
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2010-12-17T21:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/rim-revenue-profit-beat-analysts-estimates-on-rising-blackberry-demand.html
Research In Motion Ltd. , maker of
the BlackBerry smartphone, advanced in Nasdaq trading after
forecasting sales and profit that topped analysts’ estimates,
helped by demand for its Curve and Torch.  Revenue this quarter will be $5.5 billion to $5.7 billion
and earnings per share will be $1.74 to $1.80, Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM said in a statement yesterday after the close
of regular trading. Analysts  projected  revenue of $5.46 billion
and profit of $1.61 a share.  “The fact that guidance is decently above consensus, to me
that’s pretty positive,” said  Tavis McCourt , an analyst at
Morgan Keegan & Co. in Nashville, Tennessee, who rates the stock
“outperform.” “Things are trending in the right direction.”  RIM  rose  96 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $60.20 at 4 p.m. New
York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has gained 41
percent since Aug. 31, narrowing its decline for the year to 11
percent.  RIM is counting on a new version of the BlackBerry Bold and
the Torch, which has a slide-out keyboard and better Internet
browser, to lure customers away from  Apple Inc .’s iPhone. RIM is
also tapping demand in markets such as Brazil and Indonesia for
less expensive models like the Curve, which incorporate its free
instant messaging system, to fend off the challenge from a slew
of new phones based on  Google Inc. ’s Android software.  “RIM certainly has its work cut out for it, but so far it
is hard to argue with the fact that the company is consistently
beating Street expectations,”  Rod Hall , an analyst with
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a note. Hall lifted his target to
$67 from $53 and kept his “overweight” rating on the stock.  ‘Thin Reed’  Sales last quarter  rose  40 percent to $5.49 billion, RIM
said. Analysts had predicted $5.41 billion, the average of
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings per share were $1.74
compared with an average estimate, excluding some costs, of
$1.65. RIM added 5.1 million new subscribers, while analysts
estimated 5.2 million.  “The miss on new subscriber estimates is a thin reed to
cling to for the bears,” said  Tero Kuittinen , an analyst with
MKM Partners LP in Stamford, Connecticut who has a “buy”
rating on the stock. “The magnitude of the earnings beat
suggests that the Torch has really done well.”  Losing Share  AT&T began selling the Torch, which features the improved
BlackBerry 6 operating system, in August and halved the phone’s
price to $99.99 to stimulate sales ahead of holiday shopping.  Net income for the third quarter  climbed to $911.1 million
from $628.4 million, or $1.10 a share, a year earlier. The
company said it expects BlackBerry shipments this quarter of
14.5 million to 15 million units, beating the average estimate
from analysts of 14.2 million units.  Still, RIM continues to lose market share globally to the
iPhone and Android handsets. RIM’s share of the global
smartphone market slid to 15 percent in the third quarter from
20 percent a year earlier, according to researcher IDC. Apple’s
was unchanged at 17 percent while Samsung Electronics Co., which
uses Android, jumped to 8.9 percent from 3 percent.  PlayBook Surge  The stock’s recent surge has been driven by expectations
for the BlackBerry PlayBook tablet, which RIM will sell in the
U.S. to go head to head with Apple’s market-leading iPad.  RIM may sell 2.55 million tablets, generating about $1.1
billion in revenue in its first full year of sales, according to
a Bloomberg survey of 17 analysts. By contrast, Apple sold 4.19
million iPads last quarter, for revenue of $2.8 billion.  Co-Chief Executive Officer  Jim Balsillie  reiterated the
PlayBook will be introduced in the first quarter of 2011, amid a
flurry of new, competing devices from Samsung and  Motorola Inc. ,
and an expected second version of the iPad.  Some corporate customers are delaying plans to buy rival
tablet devices while they wait for the PlayBook to come out,
Balsillie told analysts on a call yesterday.  “I think the PlayBook redefines what a tablet should do,”
he said. There is “overwhelming interest and overwhelming
pressure to get units.”  The gross margin, or percentage of sales left after costs,
widened to 43.6 percent last quarter, compared with an average
analyst estimate of 42 percent. RIM said its margin should be
similar this quarter and is targeting a percentage in the “low
40s” in its next fiscal year.  RIM named Balsillie and co-Chief Executive Officer  Mike Lazaridis  as co-chairmen. Balsillie stepped down as chairman of
the company in March, 2007, after a review of its stock-option
grants and a restatement of its results.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hugo Miller  in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  