-- Rio Must Act to Avoid Airport `Disaster' Before World Cup, Governor Says
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-12-17T21:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/rio-must-act-to-avoid-airport-disaster-during-world-cup-governor-says.html
Rio de Janeiro’s airports must be
improved to avoid “a disaster” as travelers arrive for the
 World Cup  and  Olympics , among $36 billion in investments the
state needs to prepare for the events, Governor  Sergio Cabral 
said.  Airports in the city, Brazil’s second biggest, won’t be
able to handle the influx of visitors before the 2014 soccer
tournament and 2016 Olympics, Cabral said. The country’s
airports authority, known as  Infraero , isn’t equipped to make
the improvements and the concession to operate them should be
assigned to private companies, Cabral told reporters in New York
today, after making a speech to investors.  “We are still choking in Brazil, and particularly in
Rio,” Cabral said at the  Harvard Club . “A concession would
solve things fast. If things continue at Infraero’s pace, it
will be a disaster.”  Rio de Janeiro plans to sell international bonds to help
fund infrastructure improvements before the sporting events, and
is evaluating the ideal timing for the issuance, Cabral said.  Rio has two airports for commercial flights. The Galeao -
Antonio Carlos Jobim airport is the destination for all
international and most domestic flights. Santos Dumont Airport
mainly serves flights from Sao Paulo, Brazil’s biggest city.  Brazil, South America’s largest economy, expects the 2014
soccer tournament to attract about 500,000 visitors, Jeanine
Pires, the president of Brazil’s tourism authority, said in
June. About 5 million tourists visit Brazil each year and this
is expected to grow to about 8 million by 2014, Pires said.  Rousseff Pledges  President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  has pledged to rebuild and
revitalize airports, roads, ports, railways and power plants as
part of efforts to improve infrastructure. Her administration
may create an agency or secretariat for aerospace issues, Valor
Economico newspaper reported Nov. 23.  Such a plan “makes sense,”  Rosangela Ribeiro , an analyst
at brokerage SLW Corretora said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “We have a big infrastructure problem, and this
jeopardizes the flights. I think it can have a positive
result.”  Cabral said he was confident Rio’s problems would be
resolved in time for the World Cup and Olympics.  “Dilma guarantees she will make the necessary investments
and I trust her,” Cabral said. Rio de Janeiro state is now the
prime receiver of federal funds, Cabral said. Rio was 25th out
of 26 states when he started his government in 2007, he said.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA , Brazil’s second-biggest
airline, may buy more planes to meet demand spurred by an influx
of visitors for the World Cup and Olympics, Chief Financial
Officer  Leonardo Pereira  said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  