-- Rubber Climbs to Record as Thailand Rains Hurt Output Amid Growing Demand
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2010-12-17T10:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/rubber-climbs-to-record-as-thailand-rains-hurt-output-amid-growing-demand.html
Rubber extended a rally to a record
as heavy rains in the south of Thailand, the world’s biggest
exporter, increased concerns that supply was trailing demand.
The cash price gained to an all-time high.  May-delivery rubber on the Tokyo Commodity Exchange climbed
to as high as 400.9 yen per kilogram ($4,784 a metric ton),
before ending so-called night trading at 400.5 yen, according to
intraday data on Bloomberg. Trading in this session is settled
on Monday. The most-active contract advanced 4.4 percent this
week, the most since the week ended Nov. 5.  The northeast monsoon is heading toward the Gulf of
Thailand and southern Thailand, causing heavy rains across the
region, the Thai Meteorological Department said on its website
today. Persistent rains across Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia,
the top three producers, have disrupted tapping and lowered
output amid demand from rising car sales in China and India.  “Worries over limited supply from key producers in
Southeast Asia are fueling gains,”  Chaiwat Muenmee , an analyst
at commodity brokerage DS Futures Co., said by phone from
Bangkok. “U.S. economic data is also spurring optimism that
demand will continue to grow,” he said.  Applications for  jobless insurance  payments fell by 3,000
to 420,000, the lowest level in three weeks, U.S. Labor
Department figures showed. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected an increase in claims to 425,000, according to a
median forecast.  Wintering Season  The  cash price  in Thailand, the world’s largest producer
and exporter, extended a rally to an all-time high of 141.55
baht ($4.70) per kilogram, fueled by a supply shortage amid
strong demand from local and overseas buyers, according to  the
Rubber Research Institute of Thailand .  “Despite high prices, demand remains strong from China,
India and Japan,” Navarat Kaewpratarn, senior marketing
official at Future Agri Trade Co., said by phone from Bangkok.  May-delivery rubber in Shanghai gained as much as 3.4
percent to 36,245 yuan ($5,442) a ton before closing at 36,145
yuan. The contract climbed to a record 38,920 yuan on Nov. 11.  Rubber futures may extend gains and climb to 480 yen by
June as plantations in Thailand and Indonesia enter their low-
production season known as wintering, said  Makoto Sugitani ,
senior director at Newedge Japan Inc. this week.  Demand, Output  “Rubber is set to advance early next year,” said Sugitani,
who correctly predicted in September that prices would rally to
a record. End users will probably rush to buy rubber while it is
available before output plunges during wintering, he said in an
interview. Wintering runs from February to April.  Global demand for natural and synthetic rubber is forecast
to increase by 15.3 percent this year to 24.3 million tons,
according to the  International Rubber Study Group . Consumption
worldwide is expected to expand by 6.3 percent next year, it
said. Natural-rubber supply is estimated at 10.2 million tons
this year, the group said.  In the longer term, global rubber consumption is forecast
to reach 33.9 million tons by 2020, with natural rubber
production of 15.4 million tons, driven largely by strong growth
in emerging markets, the group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  