-- Algeria May Favor Sonatrach to TNK-BP for BP Assets, Russia's Shmatko Says
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-12-17T11:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/russia-s-shmatko-says-sonatrach-studying-bp-s-algeria-assets.html
Algeria may favor state-owned
Sonatrach over  TNK-BP  should BP Plc decide to sell its Algerian
assets, Russia’s Energy Minister said.  Sonatrach is considering whether to use its right of first
refusal over BP’s stake,  Sergei Shmatko  told reporters in Moscow
today. “It appears that Algeria is leaning towards Sonatrach
entry into these projects,” he said.  BP  has agreed to $21 billion of asset sales, of a planned
divestment program of as much as $30 billion, to help cover the
cost of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. Sonatrach’s pre-emption
rights may hamper TNK-BP’s overseas expansion drive. The company
is a joint venture between BP and a group of Russian
billionaires.  Sonatrach is looking at costs and technological challenges
to decide if it can develop the Algerian fields that BP may sell
on its own, Shmatko said.  BP, based in London, is the largest foreign investor in
Algeria, according to the company’s website. In addition to
exploration acreage, it operates two gas fields, Salah Gas in
the Sahara Desert and Amenas in the southeast of the country,
and is a partner in the Rhourde El Baguel oil field.  TNK-BP in October agreed to buy BP stakes in Vietnam and
Venezuela for $1.8 billion. TNK-BP Deputy Chief Executive
Officer  Maxim Barsky  said at the time the venture will get the
first look at the Algerian assets, which may cost about $3
billion.  “The fields are very risky there,” Shmatko said. “They
thought BP technology is able to work; our strong point is that
TNK-BP could inherit it in terms of staff and technology.”  BP spokeman  Robert Wine  declined to comment when contacted
by telephone in London. Sonatrach’s press office declined to
comment when contacted by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  