-- Russia, China Plan to Team Up for Global Energy Deals
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2010-12-17T15:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/russia-china-aim-to-discuss-global-energy-projects-next-year.html
Russia and China plan to work
together on global oil, natural-gas and coal projects to meet
growing energy demand from the Asian country, Russian Energy
Minister  Sergei Shmatko  said.  They will identify specific projects next year and may look
as far away as Africa and Latin America, Shmatko told reporters
in Moscow today.  “What’s unique is big deals for a long-term period,”
Shmatko said. “I don’t see any other partners yet who we could
reach the same relationship with in the near future.”  Resource-rich Russia is expanding energy ties with China,
designing pipelines to deliver oil and gas to the world’s
biggest energy consumer. Chinese oil imports gained 48 percent
last year and have almost doubled since 2005, according to
customs data.  OAO Rosneft , Russia’s state-run oil producer, plans to
expand ties with China National Petroleum Corp. through a
production venture and will consider the joint acquisition of
offshore and onshore assets in Russia and beyond.  Talks are taking place with CNPC and China Petrochemical
Corp., known as Sinopec, as well as China Shenhua Energy Co.
Ltd., China’s sole producer of fuels from coal, Shmatko said.  “We haven’t made any breakthrough yet, but our strategic
interests match,” he said. “There is an active expansion of
Chinese capital.”  Chinese companies are seeking long-term supply
arrangements, and are ready to provide loans to build
infrastructure, while Russia would supply markets for decades,
he said.  Russia also plans to increase coal supplies to China to as
much as 20 million tons a year in the next few years, Shmatko
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Shiryaevskaya  in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 