-- Total, Korea Gas Buy Stakes in Australia LNG Project
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-12-17T06:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/santos-signs-binding-lng-pact-with-korea-gas-plans-495-million-placement.html
Santos Ltd.  agreed to sell stakes in
its Australian liquefied natural gas project to  Total SA  and
 Korea Gas Corp.  for A$665 million ($660 million) to help fund a
development estimated to cost $16 billion.  Korea Gas and Total will each buy 7.5 percent of the
Gladstone LNG venture, Australia’s third-biggest oil and gas
producer said today. The project will also supply 3.5 million
metric tons of the fuel a year to Korea Gas starting in 2015.  “This is what the market wanted,”  Mark Greenwood , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Sydney, said by phone today. “They
wanted another customer to provide some validation for the
project and Kogas is the largest LNG customer in the world, a
top-tier buyer in Asia. That’s a big tick in the box.”  The Santos-led project is one of four at Gladstone planning
to liquefy gas extracted from coal deposits for shipment to
Asia. In committing to the venture, Santos would follow  BG Group
Plc , the U.K.’s third-largest gas producer, which said Oct. 31
it would build Queensland Curtis LNG at a cost of $15 billion.  Chevron Corp. ,  ConocoPhillips  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  are
among energy companies proceeding with Australian LNG projects
as countries expand the use of the fuel to curb emissions from
burning coal. The Santos and BG ventures face more than 300
conditions aimed at protecting the environment.  Share Sale  Adelaide-based Santos is also raising A$500 million in a
share sale to institutional investors, to help fund its $4.8
billion portion of the project costs, it said today. The oil and
gas producer will sell 39.8 million shares at A$12.55 apiece.
The stock, halted until Dec. 20, last traded at A$12.97.  The Australian gas producer said it aims to make a final
decision in January to proceed with two units at Gladstone on
the central Queensland coast, capable of producing 7.8 million
tons of LNG annually. Exports are due in 2015, generating an
average of $6 billion in revenue a year. The venture has
combined supply agreements worth more than $120 billion,
according to today’s statement.  After the deal, Santos will own 30 percent of the project.
Kuala Lumpur-based Petroliam Nasional Bhd, or Petronas, and
Paris-based Total will each own 27.5 percent, while Korea Gas
will have 15 percent after buying 7.5 percent from Petronas.  The Gladstone venture will use the  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. -
operated North West Shelf LNG project as a model, said  David Knox , chief executive officer of Santos. The Western Australian
venture started LNG shipments in 1989, with annual production
capacity reaching 16.3 million tons in 2008.  ‘Major Hub’  “We believe 30 percent is the right size for us,” Knox
said on a call with reporters. “We’re building a major hub, a
North West Shelf-style hub, and we have a very material stake.”  To help fund its “transformational” portfolio of
projects, including Gladstone and an  Exxon Mobil Corp. -led
venture in Papua New Guinea, Santos said it will reduce dividend
payments.  The cost of the Queensland development is below analyst
projections. Citigroup’s Greenwood had estimated the venture
would cost A$18 billion, while  Di Brookman , a Sydney-based
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, had expected $18 billion.  Construction may begin at the end of the first quarter,
Knox said. The development will create 5,000 construction jobs,
Queensland state Premier  Anna Bligh  said today.  The Santos gas supply agreement represents a
“significant” deal with South Korea, “an important trading
partner,” Australian Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson  said in a
statement. “The export of LNG is a growing industry in
Australia with the potential to create jobs and deliver long-
term economic benefits.”  Santos ranks behind Perth-based Woodside and  BHP Billiton
Ltd.  among Australian oil and gas producers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 