-- SEC Is Said to Subpoena Wall Street Banks in Mortgage-Bond Investigation
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2010-12-17T20:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/sec-is-said-to-subpoena-wall-street-banks-in-mortgage-bond-investigation.html
U.S. regulators subpoenaed  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. , Citigroup Inc., Bank of America Corp., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co., seeking information on
the banks’ role in bundling mortgages for sale to investors, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The Securities and Exchange Commission subpoenas asked the
banks for details on how mortgages were selected and bundled
into securities, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the probe isn’t public. Reuters reported the SEC probe
earlier today, saying the subpoenas were sent last week.  The SEC, which is investigating business practices that
might have contributed to the collapse of the U.S. subprime
mortgage market, has sued companies and executives responsible
for selling loan bundles that soured when the housing bubble
burst. Goldman Sachs reached a $550 million settlement over SEC
claims that it misled investors.  Angelo Mozilo , who led
Countrywide Financial Corp. before it was sold to Bank of
America, agreed to pay $67.5 million.  The agency is also investigating whether trustees of
mortgage-backed financial products properly checked the
performance of the underlying loans, the person said.  “We are always in contact with regulators, legislators and
others who are interested in our procedures, servicing business
and originations,” said Vickee Adams, a  Wells Fargo  spokeswoman
who declined to comment on whether the San Francisco-based bank
had received a subpoena from the SEC.  Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan,  Michael DuVally ,
a spokesman for Goldman Sachs,  Bill Halldin  of Bank of America
and Citigroup’s  Danielle Romero-Apsilos  all declined to comment.
SEC spokesman  John Heine  also declined to comment.  JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Citigroup are based in New
York, Bank of America is based in Charlotte, North Carolina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 