-- Serbia Halts Euro-Linked Debt Issue; Ministry and Central Bank in Talks
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2010-12-17T15:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/serbia-halts-euro-linked-debt-issue-ministry-and-central-bank-in-talks.html
Serbia won’t hold a Dec. 22 auction
of six-month euro-linked Treasury bills and the government will
revisit the “issue in the coming period,” Deputy Finance
Minister  Vuk Djokovic  said.  “There will definitely be no auction on Dec. 22,”
Djokovic said in a phone interview today. Ministry spokesman
Zoran Ciric said the finance minister and the central bank
governor are holding talks to “harmonize their positions” on
the matter.  Branislav Toncic, the head of the Debt Management Agency
told Bloomberg News yesterday the issue had been approved and
that the invitation for the auction was due to be published in
today’s Official Gazette.  “I was informed about the change only this morning,” he
said today by phone, adding that he is “considering
resigning.”  Finance Minister  Diana Dragutinovic  told reporters at a
press conference last night “she had to accept the market
reality,” when asked if Serbia would issue the euro-linked
debt, without mentioning that the Dec. 22 auction had been
canceled. On Dec. 10, Dragutinovic said the government would
have preferred to index new debt to inflation.  The central bank wants to cut Serbia’s reliance on the euro
and make the economy less susceptible to exchange-rate
fluctuations and any euro-indexation isn’t “the most fortunate
solution,” central bank Governor  Dejan Soskic  told the Serbian
Chamber of Commerce today.  Reports that the government had decided to go with the
euro-linked debt issue triggered the dinar’s 2.6 percent rise in
four consecutive working days this week. The currency fell 1.4
percent in Belgrade today, trading at 105.80 to the euro at 4
p.m., according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gordana Filipovic  in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  