-- Shell Readies 3 Applications for Gulf of Mexico Wells
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2010-12-17T23:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/shell-asks-u-s-to-drill-deep-water-gulf-wells-in-wake-of-bp-oil-disaster.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc , Europe’s
biggest oil company, is preparing three exploration plans to
meet new requirements for deep-water wells in the Gulf of Mexico
after the U.S. lifted a drilling ban, a spokeswoman said today.  Statoil ASA , the Nordic region’s biggest energy producer,
has filed applications for two new wells since the moratorium
ended on Oct. 12, Tony Dore, head of Statoil’s exploration unit
in North America, said on Dec. 10.  Drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters)
remains idle more than two months after President  Barack Obama 
ended the moratorium as regulators review compliance with
environmental and safety rules imposed after BP Plc’s Macondo
oil-well blast. The U.S. received three applications for new
wells subject to regulations introduced after the spill,  the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement 
said.  “It does remain to be seen how long it’s going to take to
get permits approved,” Erik Milito, the upstream director for
the American Petroleum Institute, said today in a phone
interview from Washington. “The companies have the ability to
move forward in a safe, environmentally responsible manner.”  “Future drilling permits must first wait on approved
exploration plans,” Kelly op de Weegh, a spokeswoman for The
Hague-based Shell, said in an e-mail today.  Shell operated five rigs, more than any other company, in
deep waters when Obama halted the activity following the Macondo
explosion, the Interior Department said. The blast killed 11
workers, spewed crude for 87 days and shut a third of the Gulf
to commercial fishing.  “The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
Enforcement received three applications for new wells subject to
regulations introduced after the spill,” said Melissa Schwartz,
spokeswoman for the agency. “Only one of these permits is for
activity that was suspended under the moratorium, and has been
returned to the operator because it was incomplete.”  The agency also returned 11 other permits that were
submitted to the agency prior to the lifting of the moratorium,
Schwartz said.  The moratorium cut Shell’s Gulf output by 10,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day, Simon Henry, chief financial officer for
the company, said on an Oct. 28 conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 