-- Jet Fuel Rises as Vitol Buys; Gasoil Futures Crack at $12: Oil Products
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2010-12-17T17:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/shell-chevron-sell-european-gasoline-ice-gasoil-decline-oil-products.html
Jet fuel’s premium to January gasoil
futures traded on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange rose for
the third consecutive day. Gasoil crack, a measure of refining
profitability, advanced to more than $12 a barrel.  Light Products  Premium unleaded gasoline barges for immediate loading in
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp traded at $827 and $829 a metric
ton, according to traders and brokers monitoring the Platts
pricing window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. That’s up
from $823 to $827 yesterday.  Statoil ASA sold to Total SA in both deals.  Eurobob grade barges changed hands at $795 to $810 a ton,
according to a survey of brokers and traders monitoring Platts
and the Argus Bulletin Board. That’s wider than yesterday’s
trading range at $806 to $808 a ton. Ethanol is added to Eurobob
grade to make the finished fuel.  The  gasoline crack , or premium to Brent, dropped to $4.75 a
barrel from $4.80 a barrel yesterday, according to data from PVM
Oil Associates Ltd., a broker in London.  Middle Distillates  Hetco, a unit of Hess Corp., sold one jet fuel barge to
Vitol SA at a premium of $61 a ton to January ICE gasoil. That’s
a $1 gain from yesterday.  Gasoil for January delivery on ICE dropped $2.25 to $767 a
ton at 5:21 p.m. local time.  “Gasoil remains surprisingly weak, given the continued
cold weather,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by New York-
based Lawrence Eagles said in a research note dated yesterday.
“However, strength in the diesel and jet fuel markets has seen
differentials to gasoil futures widen on a prompt and forward
basis.”  Gasoil’s crack , or its premium to Brent crude, widened to
$11.94 a barrel, up 40 cents from yesterday. It earlier rose to
a high of $12.13, the highest since Dec. 7. Brent crude for
February was little changed at $91.67 a barrel.  “Frigid weather across much of Europe in recent days has
bolstered home heating oil demand,” JPMorgan said. “We may yet
see a prolonged period of cold weather reignite consumer
interest in January.”  Residues  Russian fuel oil production rose in November to the highest
level in at least three years, according to the Energy Ministry.  The country’s refineries produced 6.18 million tons of fuel
oil last month, the Energy Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement today. That’s 5.4 percent more than the previous month
and up 9.6 percent on the same month a year ago.  Refinery News  Exxon Mobil Corp. plans a full halt of its 119,000 barrels-
-a-day Fos refinery in southern France in January for about six
weeks of maintenance, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the situation.  Processing units will begin to shut around Jan. 10, and
start-up is expected at the end of February, the person said,
declining to be named because the information is confidential.
 Catherine Brun , a Paris-based Exxon spokeswoman, declined to
comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  