-- Siemens May Help Fund Cape Wind Power Project, U.S. CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2010-12-17T22:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/siemens-may-help-fund-cape-wind-power-project-u-s-ceo-says.html
Siemens AG  is in talks to help
finance the construction of Cape Wind.  Backing the controversial wind farm off the coast of
Massachusetts would ensure that the developers purchase Siemens
turbines and may spur demand for offshore wind power in the
U.S., according to  Eric Spiegel , chief executive officer of
Siemens Corp., the Munich-based company’s U.S. unit.  “We have been in discussions to help finance debt and
equity,” Spiegel said in an interview today. “We’d be willing
to be a part if it’s required.”  The developer, Cape Wind Associates LLC, wants to install
130 Siemens turbines about 5 miles (8 kilometers) off Cape Cod.
Environmental groups have opposed the project, which received an
important boost when Massachusetts regulators on Nov. 22 agreed
to let  National Grid Plc  buy half of Cape Wind’s output for 18.7
cents per kilowatt-hour. That price will increase 3.5 percent
each year for the 15 years of the contract.  The contract with National Grid, a London-based company
that delivers power to about 3.3 million customers in the U.S.
Northeast, is one of the first power-purchase deals for an
offshore wind farm in the U.S. If financing for Cape Wind can be
arranged, its power-purchase agreement may pave the way for an
additional 6,300 megawatts of energy projects in various stages
of development in U.S. waters, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  Cape Wind would cover more than 25 square miles in an area
known as Horseshoe Shoal, and would generate as much as 468
megawatts of power.  At that size, Cape Wind would cost about $2.43 billion to
build, excluding the transmission lines that would be needed to
deliver electricity to Nantucket and Cape Cod, according to New
Energy Finance.  Siemens’ Financial Services division invests in projects
that support business initiatives of Europe’s largest
engineering company, Spiegel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Martin  in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 