-- Simon Given Jan. 12 Deadline to Make an Offer for Capital Shopping Centres
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2010-12-17T21:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/simon-given-jan-12-deadline-to-make-an-offer-for-capital-shopping-centres.html
Simon Property Group Inc. , the
largest U.S. mall owner, has until Jan. 12 to announce its
“firm intention” to make a takeover offer for  Capital Shopping
Centres Group Plc  or abandon its pursuit, U.K. regulators said.  The deadline was given today by the Panel on Takeovers and
Mergers, an independent body that regulates bids and
acquisitions in the U.K. Both companies have agreed to the
cutoff, the panel said in a statement.  Simon proposed buying Capital Shopping with several
conditions this week for 425 pence a share in cash, an overture
the London-based landlord rejected, saying it “substantially
undervalues the company and its prospects.” The proposal from
Indianapolis-based Simon is conditional on Capital Shopping
abandoning a planned 1.6 billion-pound ($2.5 billion) purchase
of Trafford Centre mall in Manchester.  “The board of CSC is pleased that this development will
bring to an end the uncertainty created by Simon’s attempts to
frustrate the Trafford Centre acquisition and will ensure that
CSC’s shareholders will have clarity over the nature of any
proposal which Simon may put forward,” Capital Shopping said in
a statement today.  Simon said earlier this week the conditions listed in its
“indicative” offer shouldn’t pose a barrier to a deal and it
expects access to information from Capital Shopping so a formal
offer can be made. Capital Shopping refused last week to provide
Simon with information it said was needed to evaluate a bid.  ‘Engage With Simon’  Simon today urged Capital Shopping shareholders to demand
the company’s board provide its suitor with information so Simon
can make a firm offer before the deadline.  “If the CSC board genuinely wants its shareholders to make
a ‘fully informed decision,’ it should engage with Simon
immediately,” the company said in a statement today.  Simon   shares  rose 72 cents to $95.43 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 20
percent this year, matching the  increase  in the Bloomberg Real
Estate Investment Trust  Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  