-- New York, Northeast May Finish Cold Week With Snowfall, Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-12-17T16:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/snow-may-fall-in-new-york-northeast-this-weekend-to-finish-out-cold-snap.html
Residents of New York and the
Northeast who’ve been bundling against icy temperatures for a
week may find a blanket of snow by Dec. 19.  Forecasters are putting the odds at 50-50. They can’t say
yet for certain what a system now making its way across the
country will do once it gets to the Atlantic coast, said  Brian Ciemnecki , a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in
 Upton, New York .  “The track it takes will determine how much snow they get
on Long Island and New York City and the rest of the
Northeast,” Ciemnecki said by telephone. “We’re hoping to have
a better idea later today.”  Winter storms can cause airline, rail and highway delays as
well as power outages and even coastal flooding, depending on
the storm track.  From 1990 to 2009, winter storms accounted for 7.4 percent
of all catastrophic losses in the U.S., according to the
institute. Hurricanes and tropical storms caused the most
damage, at 45.2 percent of the total.  In the winter of 2009-2010, record-breaking amounts of snow
fell across the U.S., including in New York, Washington and
Baltimore. The Washington area got 1 to 2 inches (2.5. to 5
centimeters) of snow from a storm yesterday.  Low Temperatures  Cold air has gripped the New York region since Dec. 14,
when the high in the mid-20s Fahrenheit (about minus-4 Celsius)
was about 20 degrees lower than normal. Weekend highs are
expected to be in the mid-30s.  If a storm arrives in the Northeast this weekend, it will
probably bring snow starting late tomorrow into early next week,
according to the Weather Service. However, computer models are
giving forecasters contradictory results with each run.  “Some model runs bring it close to Cape Cod and the next
run takes it out to sea, so it’s bouncing back and forth,” said
Alan Dunham, a Weather Service meteorologist in  Taunton,
Massachusetts.  “I wouldn’t even hazard a guess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  