-- Snowy Weekend Weather May Deal Holiday Blow to U.K. Retailers
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2010-12-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/snowy-weekend-weather-may-deal-holiday-sales-blow-to-u-k-store-operators.html
Snowy weather may keep Britons away
from shopping streets on the last weekend before Christmas,
dealing a blow to U.K. store owners on what is the climax to
their busiest period of the year.  The  Met Office  forecasts “heavy snow” across the U.K.
starting Dec. 18 and research company  Planalytics  predicts that
the freezing conditions will “severely disrupt” business for
retailers, as well as parcel deliveries. Store visits slumped by
14.5 percent at non-food outlets in Britain during wintry
conditions in early December, according to researcher Synovate.  “People will find it difficult to get to their usual
haunts if we have another bout of bad weather,” Pam Armstrong
of market research company GfK NOP Ltd. said in a statement.
“With out-of-town and Internet purchasing unavailable to them
due to restrictions on transport and delivery times, we may see
total retail spending fall this Christmas.”  Almost a third of holiday shopping is done in the two weeks
before Christmas, according to a GfK survey of 500 adults.
Retailers such as  Dixons Retail Plc , the owner of the PC World
and Currys chains,  HMV Group Plc , the music and DVD retailer,
and H. Samuel owner  Signet Jewelers Ltd.  generate a significant
proportion of their annual revenue over the holiday period.  Grocers such as  J Sainsbury Plc  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s
 Asda  are offering record levels of promotions to fuel spending,
according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC. The most common offers
are on confectionery and alcohol, such as 50 percent off wine
cases at  Tesco Plc,  while discounts on fresh produce like
brussel sprouts and satsumas are increasing, PWC said.  “It looks as though the grocers are leaving nothing to
chance and getting those Christmas sales in while they can,”
 Christine Cross , chief retailer adviser to PwC, said in a
statement. On average, 11 out of 20 Christmas items in a basket
of goods are now on promotion, the accounting firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 