-- Southern Sudan Battles Worst Kala Azar Outbreak in Eight Years, MSF Says
-- B y   L e n a   L e e   a n d   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 2010-12-17T12:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/southern-sudan-battles-biggest-kala-azar-outbreak-in-eight-years-msf-says.html
Southern Sudan is battling to
contain the biggest outbreak of the  kala azar  disease in the
region in eight years as it moves toward a Jan. 9 referendum on
independence, Medecins Sans Frontieres said.  The severity of the outbreak is just one symptom of the
wider medical humanitarian crisis facing the region, the group
also known as Doctors Without Borders  said  in a statement
yesterday.  Kala azar is a tropical disease contracted through the bite
of a parasite-carrying sandfly and is endemic in Southern Sudan,
the group said. Symptoms include an enlarged spleen, fever and
weakness. The return of thousands of southerners before the
referendum has worsened the outbreak, according to Moses Chol
Maper, an emergency coordinator with MSF in Southern Sudan.  “These people came back with no immune system against the
disease,” Maper said today in an interview in Juba, the capital
of Southern Sudan.  If untreated, the disease is fatal in almost 100 percent of
cases within one to four months, MSF said. Timely treatment can
mean a success rate as high as 95 percent, it said. It requires
multiple injections over a 17-30 day period, with sicker
patients requiring hospitalization, according to MSF.  The worst outbreaks have been in Unity, Jonglei and Upper
Nile states, which are near the border with the north and are
receiving large numbers of returnees, Maper said.  Large outbreaks of kala azar can be expected every eight to
10 years, said Jose Hulsenbek, MSF-Holland’s chief of mission in
Southern Sudan.  “This is going to happen for this country and this
government for years and years to come, so it would be good for
them to receive the support” so they can deal with the disease
themselves, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lena Lee  in Singapore at 
 llee42@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Richmond  in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at  phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 