-- South Africans to Drink Recycled Toilet Water as Drought Slashes Supplies
-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 2010-12-17T06:35:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/south-africans-to-drink-recycled-toilet-water-as-drought-slashes-supplies.html
South Africans will drink recycled
toilet water for the first time later this month when a
reclamation plant in the drought-stricken town of Beaufort West
starts operating.  The facility, built by  Water & Wastewater Engineering , a
Stellenbosch-based company, will treat effluent from the town’s
sewerage-treatment works and pump purified water directly into
its reservoir, Chief Executive Officer Pierre Marais said.  A water shortage forced Beaufort West to cut supplies for
36 hours at a stretch this month, Louw Smit, director of
engineering services for the municipality, said in a statement
on the City of Cape Town’s website on Dec. 14.  “This is the first time this type of technology has been
used in South Africa,” Marais said in an interview on Dec. 15.
“The plant was originally scheduled to take nine months to
complete, but the municipality asked us to fast-track the
project due to the severity of the drought.”  South Africa is the world’s 30th driest country, receiving
an average of 450 millimeters (17.7 inches) of rainfall a year,
compared with the global average of 870 millimeters, according
to the government’s Department of Water Affairs and Forestry.  The drought in the southwestern Karoo region where Beaufort
West is situated has reached “critical proportions,” according
to  Agri Wes-Cape , a farmers association.  “It’s developing into a crisis,” Carl Opperman, chief
executive officer of the Cape Town-based group, said in a
telephone interview. Some regions in the Karoo have been
declared disaster areas, he said. Farmers mainly breed sheep in
the region.  Empty Dam  The Gamka Dam, Beaufort West’s main source of water, dried
up in October, the first time in the town’s 173-year  history ,
Christopher Right, manager for technical services at the
municipality, said in a telephone interview.  “Our surface water is non-existent at the moment,” Smit
said. “The dam is completely empty. We’re solely reliant on
groundwater from boreholes, donations of water in tankers and
bottles from individuals and organizations who heed the call to
provide water.”  The municipality was forced to cut supplies to the town’s
8,000 households, while tankers were used to supply them with 5
liters (1.32 gallons) of drinking water per day, Smit said.  The 24 million-rand ($3.5 million) facility in the town was
funded by the  Department of Water Affairs  through a drought-
relief grant, Smit said. The facility has a design capacity of
about 2,000 cubic metres (70,629 cubic feet), though because of
the drought it will only produce about a 1,000 cubic meters of
potable water a day, Smit said.  More Facilities  Many such facilities will probably need to be built in the
country in the future, Marais said.  “It had to happen in South Africa eventually,” he said.
“Up until now it has been cheaper to develop boreholes, but
when a drought hits, the boreholes let you down. The only other
sustainable source of water is sewage effluent.”  Poverty, drought and increased industry are among factors
that place stress on water systems in South Africa, where 12
percent of the population lacks access to piped or well water
and 35 percent don’t have proper sanitation, according to the
 United Nations .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen at  at
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  