-- Federal Reserve Extends Its Swap Lines With ECB, BOJ, Other Central Banks
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2010-12-21T15:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/stocks-rising-17-since-bernanke-disclosed-qe2-disarms-fed-s-worst-critics.html
The Federal Reserve authorized the
extension through Aug. 1 of its temporary dollar liquidity swap
arrangements with the European Central Bank and the central
banks of Japan, Canada, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.  The arrangements had been authorized through January, the
Fed said today in a statement. Fed officials voted in May to
restart the emergency currency-swap tool to keep Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis from spreading to U.S. markets.  The swaps allow the U.S. central bank to provide the “full
allotment” of U.S. dollars as needed to European central banks,
the Fed said in a statement in May. The U.S. central bank had
closed on Feb. 1 all swap lines opened during the last crisis,
triggered by the subprime mortgage meltdown in 2007.  The extension of the swaps reflects the Fed’s desire to
“keep all their options open” to ward off systemic risk rather
than a sign of increasing threats to U.S. markets, said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in New
York. Use of the liquidity swaps declined to $60 million last
week from more than $9.2 billion in May, according to the Fed’s
weekly reports on its  balance sheet .  “An ounce of prevention is worth probably a gallon of cure
when it comes to systemic risk,” McCarthy said in an interview.
“We’ve come a long way since the darkest days but we’re
probably not completely out of the woods in terms of the
possibility of having more financial institutions under
duress.”  Libor Rate Rises  The three-month London interbank offered  rate  was set at
0.303 percent today, up from 0.284 percent on Nov. 23. Libor,
the rate banks charge to lend to each other, reached 0.539
percent in June.  “Global tensions have worsened over the past week because
of Ireland’s crisis,” said  Michael Schubert , an economist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “It doesn’t solve the problem but
it’s helping soothe symptoms.”  Ireland received a European Union-led 85 billion euro
bailout last month to combat its fiscal woes.  The ECB said U.S. dollar liquidity-providing operations
will continue to have a maturity of seven days and take the form
of repurchase operations against eligible collateral. They will
be carried out as fixed-rate tenders with full allotment, the
ECB in Frankfurt said in a separate statement.  In a swap,  central banks  exchange foreign currency with an
agreement to reverse the transaction at a later date. The
central banks will then lend the dollars at fixed rates to firms
in their countries. Concern that financial institutions were
holding too many assets of Europe’s most-indebted nations led
dollar liquidity to tighten in London during May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Wellisz  at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  