-- Sugar Futures Price May Be Little Changed Next Week, According to Survey
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-17T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/sugar-prices-will-be-little-changed-next-week-survey-shows.html
Sugar futures in New York and London
will be little changed next week, according to a survey.  Five of 12 traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by
Bloomberg News said raw sugar traded in New York will be steady.
Four predicted that prices will rise, and three forecast a
decline. The commodity has climbed 6.4 percent to 31 cents a
pound this week on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Markets will be
closed on Dec. 24 for Christmas.  “Given that we’re going into a holiday week,” prices
probably will be stable, said  Jack Scoville , a vice president at
Price Futures Group Inc. in Chicago. “The overall fundamentals
remain pretty bullish.”  Five of 12 survey respondents said refined sugar on NYSE
Liffe in London will be little changed, four predicted a gain
and three projected a decline. The price has advanced 6.2
percent this week to $767.30 a metric ton.  Refined sugar’s premium over raw sweetener will narrow,
according to five of 12 people surveyed. Five predicted little
change, and two said it will widen.  “The simple fact there is no physical demand at the
moment” will erode the premium, said Fabienne Pointier, an
analyst at Lausanne, Switzerland-based research company Kingsman
SA.  In the attached chart, red bars are derived by subtracting
bearish forecasts from bullish estimates for raw sugar, with
readings above zero signaling that most respondents expect
higher prices. The green line shows raw-sugar prices, and the
blue line shows white sugar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
 Elizabeth Campbell  in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  