-- SunTrust, Regions Gain as Marshall & Ilsley Spurs Takeover Speculation
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2010-12-17T21:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/suntrust-regions-gain-as-marshall-ilsley-spurs-takeover-speculation.html
SunTrust Banks Inc.  and Regions
Financial Corp. led bank stocks higher as  Bank of Montreal’s 
deal to buy Marshall & Ilsley Corp. renewed speculation that
U.S. lenders hurt by the recession will become targets.  SunTrust, Georgia’s biggest bank, rose $1.18, or 4.6
percent, to $27.04 as of 4:07 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Regions , the largest lender in Alabama,
advanced 1.8 percent to $6.24. KeyCorp, ranked second in Ohio,
added 4.1 percent to $8.42. Marshall and Ilsley jumped 18
percent after accepting Bank of Montreal’s $4.1 billion offer.  Idle cash, unused lending capacity and depressed stocks
have made the banking industry ripe for takeovers, according to
analysts at KBW Inc. and CreditSights Inc. Acquirers who have
been holding back while regulators set new capital standards may
not be able to wait any longer, according to  Richard Bove , a
banking analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC.  “Once those rules were in place, everyone expected a bank
consolidation explosion,” Bove said in an interview. “Now
people are afraid someone is going to come along and do
something before the regulations are changed.”  SunTrust, Regions and KeyCorp are among potential targets,
along with Fifth Third Bancorp,  Zions Bancorporation  and First
Horizon National Corp., Bove said.  Share Swap  Bank of Montreal will offer 0.1257 of its shares for each
share of Milwaukee-based Marshall & Ilsley, the Toronto-based
bank said today in a statement. The deal values Marshall &
Ilsley at 34 percent more than yesterday’s closing price of
$5.79 on the New York Stock Exchange.  Canadian banks, ranked the world’s soundest for three
straight years by the World Economic Forum, have been expanding
in the U.S., where companies faltered as the real-estate market
 tumbled . Toronto-Dominion Bank, the country’s second-biggest
lender, may reach an agreement to acquire Chrysler Financial
Corp., the auto-loan company owned by Cerberus Capital
Management LP, three people with knowledge of the matter said
this month.  Marshall & Ilsley has 374 branches and $38 billion in
deposits, and is the largest bank based in Wisconsin.  Losses in Arizona have skewed the overall quality of
Marshall & Ilsley’s portfolio, making the bank look like it’s in
a worse position than it is, Terry McEvoy, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., said in an interview. The amount of non-
performing loans the bank has in Wisconsin is below market
level, he said.  “Analysts are going to be surprised at what BMO is really
buying,” McEvoy said.  Huntington Bancshares Inc. Chief Executive Officer Stephen
Steinour said today his company is “not for sale.”  Instead,
the Columbus, Ohio-based bank may acquire other lenders and
plans to repay its $1.4 billion in U.S. bailout funds later this
year, Steinour said today during an interview on CNBC. The stock
dropped 2 cents to $6.23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 