-- U.K. Financial Stability Faces Risks From EU, BOE Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2010-12-17T08:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/u-k-financial-stability-vulnerable-to-european-risks-boe-says.html
U.K. financial stability remains
vulnerable to  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis even after banks
rebuilt capital and the strength of the system improved, the
Bank of England said.  “In this environment, it is important that resilience
among U.K. banks has improved over the past year,” the bank
said in its Financial Stability Report published in London
today. “But the U.K. is only partially insulated given the
interconnectedness of European financial systems and the
importance of their stability to global capital markets.”  British institutions also face risks from a sudden increase
in bond yields, higher interest rates, and overheating in
emerging markets, the report said. The central bank called on
lenders to moderate payouts to staff and shareholders in favor
of retaining profit to strengthen their capital base.  European Union leaders meeting in Brussels agreed yesterday
to create a permanent crisis-management mechanism in 2013 after
ballooning deficits led to a bond rout and then a bailout of
 Greece  and  Ireland. (GDBR10)  Yields on Portuguese and Spanish debt have
also soared on investor concern on their ability to manage their
liabilities.  Rating Cuts  Moody’s Investors Service lowered Ireland’s credit rating
five levels to Baa1 today after placing Greece’s Ba1 grade on
review for a possible cut yesterday. It said two days ago it may
also downgrade Spain.  U.K. banks’ potential losses from sovereign-debt holdings
may be manageable since their exposure to countries under
“heightened strain” is “relatively small,” the Bank of
England said. However, losses on loans to companies and
households in those countries could rise if investor concern is
accompanied by weaker economic growth.  The central bank also said that in an “environment of
heightened investor risk aversion,” funding conditions for
banks may “deteriorate.”  The “interconnectedness” of Europe’s financial system
means British lenders have a non-direct exposure to the region’s
most fragile states, the report said. While direct exposure to
debt-strained nations is limited, they have loaned about 288
billion pounds ($450 billion) to France and  Germany , which in
turn have greater links to Spain and Ireland.  Interest Payments  Slower economic growth or higher interest rates could
jeopardize companies’ and households’ ability to manage their
debt, creating a further vulnerability for U.K. lenders, the
central bank said. It held the  key interest rate  at a record low
of 0.5 percent this month as policy makers debate the need for
higher borrowing costs to stem faster  inflation  against
increasing bond purchases to support the recovery.  Low interest rates during the recession have been a “key
factor” allowing companies to avoid default, the Bank of
England said. Firms have also been allowed to roll over debt,
though it’s “unclear if this situation is sustainable.”  About 30 percent of companies didn’t earn enough profit to
cover debt interest payments last year, the central bank said.
In its analysis, an increase in the key rate to 5 percent may
force companies to cut debt by a third in order to bring
leverage to a more manageable level, it said. Households would
have to reduce borrowings by about 15 percent.  ‘Distortions’  Keeping interest rates low poses additional risks by
stoking investor demand for higher returns and encouraging more
capital flows into  emerging markets  such as Hong Kong property
and Indonesian bonds, the report said. At the same time,
intervention by policy makers to “resist” currency gains is
delaying an easing of global imbalances.  This has “resulted in a further build-up in foreign-
exchange reserves by emerging market economies,” the report
said. “Recycling capital back into safe assets in developed
markets” such as U.S. Treasuries “has the potential to
aggravate existing distortions.”  Among U.K. banks, “improvements” to resilience have
continued, the Bank of England said, citing stronger funding
positions and a return to profit.  Still, challenges remain. Including funding from the Bank
of England’s Special Liquidity Scheme and Credit Guarantee
Scheme, as much as 500 billion pounds of debt raised by banks
will mature in 2012. That raises the danger of lending to
companies and households being curtailed.  Banks “may try to meet their funding challenge by reducing
lending to the real economy,” it said. “A better path for the
system as a whole would be for banks to pre-fund maturing debt
and extend its maturity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  