-- Economic Recovery in U.S. Less Dependent on Fed, Leading Indicators Show
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-17T19:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/u-s-economic-recovery-becomes-less-dependent-on-fed-leading-index-shows.html
Federal Reserve efforts to cut
interest rates and pump money into the financial system have
reverberated through the U.S. economy, making it more likely the
recovery will be sustained, the Conference Board’s leading
economic indicators index showed.  Nine of 10 components of the measure designed to gauge the
outlook for growth for the next three to six months improved in
November, the broadest advance in seven years, the New York-
based research group reported today. For the first time since
May 2009, the month before the recession ended, the spread
between short- and long-term interest rates didn’t make the
biggest contribution.  Falling  claims  for jobless benefit, rising  consumer  and
business spending and increasing orders to factories, all
reflected in the index, show the expansion is broadening. The
gains mark the end of the initial phase of the rebound, when
improvements in measures most influenced by the Fed, including
interest rates and the  money supply , swamped all others.  “This is what the Fed wants to see,” said  Michelle Meyer ,
a senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.  Biggest Contributor  Today’s report showed a slowdown in supplier deliveries was
the biggest contributor to the LEI’s growth, which signals that
factories are having a more difficult time meeting demand. The
yield curve, which reflects the interest-rate spread, and
jobless claims showed the next-biggest improvements.  The yield curve has accounted for more than half of the
LEI’s gain since the start of the recovery, said  Ellen Zentner ,
senior U.S. macro economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in New York. Its average contribution has been 0.34 percentage
point.  Money supply has added an average 0.04 percentage point to
the gauge since June 2009 though it has been the second-biggest
contributor to the index three times since April and tied for
the biggest in May.  Zentner subtracted the yield curve and money supply
adjusted for inflation from the leading indicators index and
benchmarked it to December 2007, the start of the recession. On
that basis, the measure rose 0.8 percent in November, the most
since March and the second increase in eight months.  “By benchmarking it to 2007, you can show that right
around when the Fed’s help began is when we entered recovery,”
Zentner said. The recent gains excluding the yield curve and
money supply suggest “growth has resumed outside of the Fed’s
help.”  Bigger Gain  The leading index, with all its elements, rose 1.1 percent
in November, the biggest gain since March.  The Fed’s Open Market Committee on Dec. 14 repeated its
pledge to leave the benchmark interest rate low for an
“extended period” and retained a $600 billion Treasury-
purchase program through June. In a statement accompanying the
announcement, policy makers said while the economic recovery is
“continuing,” it is “insufficient” to bring down the
unemployment rate.  Unemployment  rose to 9.8 percent in November and has been
at 9.5 percent or higher for 16 months, the longest stretch
since monthly records began in 1948.  The economy is picking up speed and may grow by 3 percent
to 3.5 percent next year, former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan 
said in an interview late yesterday in Washington. The pickup in
growth should lead to stepped-up hiring as the advancement in
productivity tops out, he said.  Greenspan’s View  “The U.S. economy unquestionably has some momentum,” he
said. “The fourth quarter looks good. The growth rate could be
3.5 percent or more” for the final quarter of this year.  The last time nine components of the leading index
increased in one month was in October 2003, when the recovery
from the 2001 recession picked up. The U.S.  economy grew  3.6
percent in 2004, the most in four years, and the jobless rate
fell a half percentage point to end at 5.5 percent.  Economists this week boosted their projections for fourth-
quarter consumer spending after the government reported a
bigger-than-forecast gain in November  retail sales  and revised
prior months to show even larger increases. The increase in
estimates was on top of earlier improvements to the 2011 outlook
based on the tax compromise reached by President  Barack Obama 
and congressional Republicans earlier this month.  The tax deal “makes us more optimistic with respect to
growth in 2011,” economists at Credit Suisse in New York, said
today in a research note. The analysts, led by  Neal Soss , today
raised their forecast for gross domestic product next year to
3.3 percent, a half percentage point more than the previous
forecast.  “The economy has more momentum as it is,” they wrote.
“The upgrade to our 2011 numbers arrives against a backdrop of
steadily improving GDP growth readings in 2010.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  