-- U.S. Option Trading Jumps to Second-Highest Level on Dividend Transactions
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-17T22:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/u-s-options-trading-surges-to-second-highest-level-on-record.html
Trading of U.S. stock options soared
to the second-highest level in nearly four decades of history
yesterday, boosted by investors using the contracts to capture
dividends paid by the biggest exchange-traded funds.  Volume jumped to 30.7 million contracts on stocks, indexes
and ETFs, according to Chicago-based  Options Clearing Corp. ,
which clears and settles all trades in exchange-listed
contracts. The  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust , which tracks the
benchmark measure of U.S. stocks,  accounted for  about a third of
that volume. The record of 30.8 million was set on May 6, when
U.S. stocks lost $862 billion in value in less than 20 minutes.  Traders who bought options to receive quarterly dividends
from ETFs drove yesterday’s transactions, said  Henry Schwartz ,
president of Trade Alert LLC, a New York-based provider of
options-market analytics. The S&P 500 ETF and others began
trading today without the right to receive a dividend.  “Dividend-trading activity is how professionals harvest
money that’s left up for grabs,” Schwartz said. Owners of in-
the-money calls have the right to receive the underlying
security from the contract’s seller, who must deliver the shares
at the strike price. Call owners may exercise the options before
the ex-dividend date to get the dividend, and most do, he said.  Active Contracts  Yesterday’s most-active single contract was the  Financial
Select Sector SPDR Fund ’s December $15 call, which traded 1.89
million times, a 15-fold increase over the four-week average for
all calls on the ETF, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The ETF tracking banks and brokers closed at $15.53 today.  The SPDR S&P 500, which is the largest and most-traded
exchange-traded fund, will pay 65 cents a share on Jan. 31 to
people who bought shares before today. The $91.7 billion fund
tracks all 500 companies in the main U.S. equity benchmark.  Most of yesterday’s 8.38 million  SPDR S&P 500  call trades
were concentrated in 10 December contracts with strike prices
ranging from 110 to 124, Schwartz wrote in a note to clients
today. The open interest, or number of existing contracts, for
those options fell by 937,000, showing that about 94 percent of
those call owners exercised their options, Schwartz wrote. The
55,000 unexercised contracts, adjusted for put values, indicate
dividend traders made about $2.6 million in profits, he said.  Options began trading in the U.S. on an exchange when the
Chicago Board Options Exchange started on April 26, 1973. There
were 1.1 million contracts traded that year. Volume first
exceeded 100 million contracts in 1981. Trading reached 1
billion in 2004 and 2 billion in 2006.  Philadelphia Volume  More than half of yesterday’s volume on all nine U.S.
options markets was on the  Nasdaq OMX  PHLX exchange in
Philadelphia, OCC data show. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
was second with 14 percent followed by the International
Securities Exchange with 12 percent and NYSE Euronext’s Arca
exchange at 11 percent.  “This trading strategy is made possible through fee
incentives only available to a select group of market
participants and would not otherwise be economically viable,”
Boris Ilyevsky, a managing director at ISE, a unit of Frankfurt-
based  Deutsche Boerse AG , said in an e-mail. Dividend trades
accounted for more than 46 percent of yesterday’s volume, he
said.  Nasdaq spokeswoman  Silvia Davi  didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Traders using options to capture dividends often steer
their volume to the PHLX because its operator, Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc., is one of the venues that will cap fees for firms, making
the trades more profitable for those who initiate the
transactions.  Unclaimed Dividends  Unclaimed dividends are assigned to traders who sold call
options that were not exercised. The amount they receive depends
on the number of contracts they are short and the percentage of
the total number of open contracts that were not exercised
before the ex-date. If 95 percent of in-the-money options were
exercised, the dividends for the remaining 5 percent would be
distributed to the sellers of the unexercised options.  By simultaneously buying and selling equal numbers of new
call options on the last possible day, a trader can drive up the
so-called assignment rate for unclaimed dividends to 99.9
percent and receive more of the unclaimed dividends, Schwartz
said.  The strategy “takes advantage of the way the assignment
process works,” Schwartz said. “And it lets traders accumulate
those dividends that would’ve otherwise been assigned at a 95
percent rate.”  ISE called the dividend capture trades “objectionable” in
a March report and said that it doesn’t support the practice
because it benefits institutional investors at the expense of
individuals.  “Not only does this strategy distort market share with
millions of contracts, but it also takes advantage of the fact
that individual options traders -- who may lack sophistication
or resources -- will fail to exercise their deep in-the-money
call options in order to collect a corporate dividend payment,”
ISE said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  