-- Most U.S. Stocks Rise as Earnings, Banking Takeover Offset Europe Concerns
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2010-12-17T21:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/u-s-futures-are-little-changed-oracle-rim-international-coal-advance.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, sending the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  to a two-year high, as better-than-
projected earnings forecasts at Oracle Corp. and Research In
Motion Ltd. and the takeover of a regional bank overshadowed
concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  Oracle jumped 3.9 percent to the highest price since 2001.
 Marshall & Ilsley Corp.  surged 18 percent as Bank of Montreal
agreed to buy the lender for $4.1 billion. Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. advanced 2 percent as metals rose. Drugmakers
slipped, with  Merck & Co.  dragging down the Dow Jones Industrial
Average after AstraZeneca Plc failed to win U.S. approval for a
new blood thinner.  About six stocks gained for every five that fell on U.S.
exchanges. The S&P 500 rose 0.1 percent to 1,243.91 at 4 p.m. in
New York, its highest close since September 2008. The  Dow 
slipped 7.34 points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,491.91. The  Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index , or VIX, sank 7.4
percent to 16.11, the lowest since April.  “The economic data has firmed,” said  Philip Orlando , the
New York-based chief equity market strategist at Federated
Investors Inc., which manages $341.3 billion. “Corporate
earnings have been very strong. As the market recognizes that,
you’re going to start to see a nice Santa Claus rally to reflect
more confidence in the macro picture.”  Valuation Watch  The  S&P 500  rose yesterday to its highest level since the
aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
September 2008 as first-time claims for unemployment benefits
unexpectedly declined and  builders began work on more homes  in
November. Its recent rally has pushed its valuation to more than
15.5 times reported profits, the highest since June.  Oracle, the second-largest software maker, jumped 3.9
percent to $31.46. The company reported second-quarter earnings
that topped analysts’ estimates, helped by database sales and
the expansion into computer hardware. Oracle was raised to
“outperform” from “market perform” at Oppenheimer & Co.  Research In Motion Ltd.  rallied 1.6 percent to $60.20. The
maker of the BlackBerry forecast fourth-quarter earnings of at
least $1.74 a share, higher than the average analyst forecast.  The S&P 500 Regional Banks Index of 11 companies rallied
1.5 percent. Bank of Montreal will pay 0.1257 of its own share
for each share of  Marshall & Ilsley , the Toronto-based bank said
today in a statement. The deal values Marshall & Ilsley at $7.75
a share, 34 percent higher than yesterday’s closing price of
$5.79 on the New York Stock Exchange.  Marshall & Ilsley soared 18 percent to $6.85, its biggest
gain since May 2009.  Regions Financial Corp.  advanced 1.8
percent to $6.24. KeyCorp gained 4.1 percent to $8.42.  ‘Betting Heavily’  U.S. options traders are making  the most  bullish wagers on
banks in more than a year, speculating financial companies will
rally as the economy improves and analysts predict 21 percent
profit growth next year.  “People in the options market are betting heavily that
these stocks will go up,” said  Chris Rich , head options
strategist at JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC in
Chicago. “I’m seeing a lot of smart-money guys buying out-of-
the-money calls in banks. When I see everyone marching in the
same direction at the same time, that’s something I take note
of. It’s a strong signal.”  InterMune Inc.  surged 145 percent to $34.89. The company’s
Esbriet drug, a treatment for mild to moderate idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis, a fatal lung disease, was recommended for
approval by a European regulatory committee.  Sara Lee, JBS   Sara Lee Corp.  gained 5.3 percent to $17.26. The maker of
Jimmy Dean breakfast foods is examining whether to sell itself
to Brazilian meat processor JBS SA, according to the Wall Street
Journal. JBS, the world’s largest meat-processing company, began
the pursuit of Downers Grove, Illinois-based Sara Lee and talks
were on and off for months, the newspaper said, citing people
familiar with the matter.  Sara Lee may also seek to put its beverage and meats
businesses up for sale, the WSJ said.  Stocks fell in Europe today even as the  European Central
Bank  and Bank of England set up a temporary swap line to help
ease liquidity strains at Ireland’s lenders in case the
sovereign-debt crisis intensifies. The Bank of England could
provide up to 10 billion pounds ($15.5 billion) to the ECB in
exchange for euros if needed, the Frankfurt-based central bank
said in a statement today. The facility will allow funds to be
made available to Ireland’s central bank.  Irish Bonds  Irish banks’ senior bonds plunged after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the nation’s credit rating by five levels, citing
its declining financial strength and the cost of bailing out
lenders. Separately, the  International Monetary Fund  cut its
forecast for Ireland’s economic growth. The Washington-based
fund said it expects Ireland’s economy to grow 0.9 percent in
2011, down from 2.3 percent estimated by the fund in October.  “You see this constant back and forth in Europe,” said
 John Praveen , the Newark, New Jersey-based chief investment
strategist at Prudential International Investments Advisers LLC,
which oversees $690 billion. “There’s still concern about
credit downgrades even as European policy makers try to provide
some relief. Other than that, everything else seems to be
working out fine.”  The index of U.S. leading economic indicators increased in
November by the most in eight months, a signal the recovery will
strengthen early next year. The Conference Board’s gauge of the
outlook for the next three to six months rose 1.1 percent after
a revised 0.4 percent gain in October. The reading matched the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Merck, Pfizer  Merck, the second-largest U.S. drugmaker, dropped 1 percent
to $36.48.  Pfizer Inc. , the world’s biggest drugmaker, slumped
1.1 percent to $17.03.  AstraZeneca  fell the most in more than two years in London
trading after the U.K. drugmaker failed to win U.S. approval for
a new blood thinner to rival Plavix, the world’s second-best
selling drug. The Food and Drug Administration asked for
additional analysis of a study called Plato comparing Brilinta
with Plavix in patients with severe chest pain or earlier heart
attacks, AstraZeneca said yesterday.  Solar stocks declined after DigiTimes said Germany is in
talks to cut incentives for photovoltaic solar systems by 16
percent on July 1.  First Solar  slid 1.7 percent $133.25. JA
Solar Holdings Co. fell 3.3 percent to $6.67.   Discover Financial Services  lost 2.8 percent to $18.02. The
fourth-biggest U.S. payments network had its fiscal 2011
earnings estimate cut to $1.72 a share from $1.79 by RBC Capital
Markets, which cited a “more sizable” release in loan-loss
reserves during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in Sao Paulo at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 