-- U.S. Leading Indicators Index Gains Most in Eight Months in Recovery Sign
-- B y   C o u r t n e y   S c h l i s s e r m a n
-- 2010-12-17T16:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/u-s-leading-indicators-index-gains-most-in-eight-months-in-recovery-sign.html
The index of U.S. leading economic
indicators increased in November by the most in eight months, a
signal the recovery will strengthen early next year.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months rose 1.1 percent after a revised 0.4 percent
gain in October, the New York-based group said today. The
reading matched the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Americans grew more confident last month, stocks rose and
fewer people filed for unemployment benefits, boosting the
prospects for consumer spending in coming months. Until growth
picks up and sparks bigger job gains, Federal Reserve policy
makers will stick to a plan to pump more money into the economy.  “Momentum is building in the economy,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Research in New York. “Outside of housing we are seeing
strength in other parts of the economy.”  Stocks in the U.S. declined as concern Europe’s debt crisis
will spread across the continent offset higher-than-estimated
earnings forecasts from Oracle Corp. and Research In Motion Ltd.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,241.16 at
10:59 a.m. in New York.  State Jobs  A separate report today from the Labor Department showed
payrolls decreased in 28 U.S. states in November, led by
declines in North Carolina and Massachusetts, indicating the
labor market is undergoing an uneven recovery across the world’s
largest economy.  The median forecast for the leading index was based on a
survey of 59 estimates that ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to
1.3 percent. The Conference Board revised the October reading
down from as previously estimated 0.5 percent increase.  The biggest contributors to the increase in the index were
a slowdown in supplier deliveries, the spread between short- and
long-term interest rates and a drop in jobless claims. Slower
deliveries signal factories are having trouble keeping up with
demand.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.1 percent in November
after a 0.2 percent increase the month before. The measure
tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and production -- the gauges
used by the National Bureau of Economic Research to determine
the beginning and end of U.S. recessions.  The index of  lagging indicators  fell 0.1 percent last
month, the first drop since May. This measures business lending,
length of unemployment, service prices and ratios of labor
costs, inventories and consumer credit.  Stock Rally  Evidence the economic recovery is advancing has driven up
U.S. stock prices. The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index has advanced
22 percent through yesterday since reaching a 10-month low on
July 2. The gauge is up 5.3 percent so far in December.  Even so, Fed policy makers said economic growth isn’t
strong enough to bring down the unemployment rate, which rose to
9.8 percent in November. The central bank’s Open Market
Committee on Dec. 14 repeated its pledge to leave the benchmark
interest rate low for an “extended period” and retained a $600
billion Treasury-purchase program through June.  Seven of the 10 measures that make up the Conference
Board’s leading index are known ahead of time: stock prices,
 jobless claims , building permits,  consumer expectations , the
yield curve, factory hours and supplier delivery times. Of
those, five gained strength in November.  The Conference Board estimates new orders for consumer
goods, bookings for capital equipment and money supply adjusted
for inflation.  Today’s report showed nine of the 10 components contributed
to the increase, with only building permits showing a decline.  Balance Sheets  Improved household balance sheets may be boosting spending
during the Christmas holiday period. The International Council
of Shopping Centers on Dec. 14 revised its November-December
holiday-season sales forecast up by 0.5 percentage point to a
range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent, citing “the strong November
performance and promising trends in early December.”  “All the brands around the world are having so far so good
a very great Christmas,”  John Demsey , group president of  Estee
Lauder Cos. , said in a Bloomberg Television interview Dec. 15.
“Consumer confidence is up and it’s really about the power of
the brands and pent up demand that consumers have.”  The pickup in consumer spending complements factory growth
that helped bring the economy out of the worst recession since
the 1930s.  Broadcom Corp., the biggest maker of chips for television
set-top boxes, this week increased its fourth-quarter revenue
projection to about $1.9 billion, the top end of an earlier
forecast range. Irvine, California-based Broadcom is making
inroads in the mobile-phone market, supplying radio chips for
handsets from South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. and
Finland’s Nokia Oyj.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Courtney Schlisserman  in Washington at 
 cschlisserma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  