-- Lula Says Won't Pursue Top U.N. Job Despite Offer of Latin America Support
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s
-- 2010-12-17T15:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/lula-says-won-t-pursue-top-u-n-job-despite-offer-of-latin-america-support.html
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula 
da Silva, who leaves office this month with record popularity,
said he’s not interested in becoming head of the United Nations.  Bolivia’s President  Evo Morales , at a summit of the
Mercosur trade bloc today in Foz do Iguacu, Brazil, urged South
American leaders to mount a campaign to get Lula elected U.N.
Secretary General when  Ban Ki-Moon ’s five-year term ends Dec.
31, 2011.  “The head of the U.N. needs to be a competent technocrat,
not a politician,” Lula told reporters today. “The Secretary
General can’t be bigger than heads of state.”  Lula said that “if it becomes fashionable” for
politicians to run the U.N. then the U.S. might try to dominate
the organization, which he said would be “worrisome.”  Support for Lula in Brazil rose to a record 87 percent this
month, from 85 percent in September, according to an Ibope poll
of 2,002 people published yesterday. The poll had a margin of
error of plus or minus two percentage points.  He leaves office also as the region’s most popular leader,
enjoying a 67 percent favorable image in a poll of 20,204 Latin
Americans in 18 countries released this month by
Latinobarometro, a Santiago, Chile-based consultancy.
Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez  had a favorable image among 33 percent
of those surveyed.  Since taking office in 2003, Lula has helped lift 21
million Brazilians out of poverty and create a record 15 million
jobs in Latin America’s biggest economy.  Lula has said he intends to remain active in Brazilian
politics, and help promote Latin American integration, after he
hands power to his former cabinet chief,  Dilma Rousseff , on Jan.
1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carla Simoes  in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  