-- Uralkali Says It’s in Talks on Takeover of Silvinit
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-17T18:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/uralkali-confirms-merger-talks-with-rival-silvinit-update1-.html
OAO Uralkali , Russia’s second-
biggest potash producer, confirmed it’s in talks on a possible
takeover of  OAO Silvinit , sending the shares of its larger
competitor to a record high.  Uralkali’s board hasn’t agreed on the terms of any
transaction and there’s no certainty that a deal will be
reached, the Berezniki-based company said today in a statement.  The potash industry is consolidating following an increase
in demand for the crop nutrient. A positive outlook for world
grain prices, which surged this year as drought in Russia,
flooding in Canada and parched fields in Kazakhstan and Europe
ruined crops, has boosted fertilizer purchases by farmers.  “We see Silvinit as poised to benefit the most from the
news,”  Marat Gabitov , a Moscow-based analyst at UniCredit SpA,
said today in a report. Billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov , who with
partners acquired control of both companies this year, will
probably seek a price for Silvinit that exceeds its current
“low” valuation, Gabitov said.  Silvinit, which beats Uralkali on sales, has a market
capitalization of $7.3 billion to Uralkali’s $15 billion.  Silvinit  rose 14 percent to 31,390.97 rubles at the 6:45
p.m. close in Moscow. That’s the highest price since the shares
started to trade on Sept. 1, 2008.  Uralkali  dropped 2.5 percent
to 214.97 rubles.  Government Backing  Uralkali has won Russian government approval to create a
national champion to compete internationally through a tie-up
with Silvinit, two people familiar with the matter said Dec. 16.
The transaction is likely to be announced this month, they said.  Silvinit’s board will review the proposed combination on
Dec. 20, newspaper Vedomosti reported today, citing people it
didn’t identify.  Kerimov and partners bought controlling stakes in Uralkali
and Solikamsk-based Silvinit between June and August. They may
initially sell as much as 30 percent of Silvinit’s shares to
Uralkali for cash, with the rest swapped for stock, Gabitov
said.  The combined group would account for 17 percent of the
world’s potash output, making it the second-largest producer
after Canada’s  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. , according to
 Fertecon Ltd. , a U.K.-based industry consultant.  Kerimov directly owns 25 percent of Uralkali through his
Kaliha Finance Ltd. holding company, and together with partners
controls 53 percent, Uralkali said in June.  The billionaire owns 25 percent of Silvinit, according to
Vedomosti. His control expands to 69 percent when accounting for
the 44 percent stake acquired by his partners in August, a
person familiar with the purchase said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net  