-- Turkey Follows Rate Cut With Increase in Reserve Requirement to Curb Boom
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2010-12-17T09:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/turkey-follows-rate-cut-with-increase-in-reserve-requirement-to-curb-boom.html
Turkey’s central bank increased the
amount of reserves banks must set aside, seeking to restrain a
credit boom even as it cuts the benchmark interest rate to deter
capital inflows.  The bank increased the reserve ratio for deposit and
savings accounts of up to one month to 8 percent from 6 percent,
according to the  Official Gazette  published in Ankara today. It
also widened the scope of the requirement to include customer
repurchase or repo accounts.  The central bank is seeking to discourage inflows of
capital with lower interest rates while preventing overheating
of the economy by making it more costly for banks to lend. The
reserves decision was signaled yesterday when the bank cut the
 benchmark one-week repo rate  to 6.5 percent from 7 percent.  That decision was “a cut that is probably not really a
cut,”  Yarkin Cebeci , Istanbul-based economist for JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in an e-mailed report. “By squeezing the
profit margins of the banks, the central bank is trying to urge
them to increase the interest rates on loans, hoping that this
would restrain loan growth and curb domestic demand.”  Yields  on two-year lira debt rose 1 basis point from a
record low to 7.31 percent at 11 a.m. in Istanbul. The lira was
little changed at 1.5216 per dollar.  The bank, which doesn’t pay interest on the reserves, is
seeking to restrain consumer borrowing which has increased an
average of 0.9 percent a week this year, helping Turkey’s  gross
domestic product  expand an annual 8.9 percent in the first three
quarters.  ‘Not Expansionary’  The higher reserve ratios will withdraw 7.6 billion liras
($5 billion) in liquidity, the bank said today. Yesterday it
said that the net effect of its policy shift would “not be
expansionary.”  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO , which will have to set aside
extra provisions worth about 5 percent of estimated net income
next year, and  Turkiye Is Bankasi AS  will be among the worst-
affected banks, Istanbul-based broker Ekspres Invest said in an
e-mailed note.  The reserve requirement declines to 7 percent for deposits
with a term of one to six months, 6 percent for those up to a
year and 5 percent for longer than a year, while it was set at 8
percent for liabilities other than deposits. The ratio was
previously 6 percent for all lira liabilities.  The central bank signaled its new strategy in a paper by
Deputy Governor  Erdem Basci  published on its website last
weekend. It had previously signaled that its next rates move
would be an increase late next year.  Imports Surge  Lower rates and higher reserve requirements can help
restrain the  current-account deficit , which has soared as
capital inflows strengthen the lira and stronger domestic demand
pulls in more goods from abroad, Basci wrote. The gap widened to
$40.8 billion, or about 5.6 percent of GDP, in the 12 months to
October as imports surged and export growth slowed.  The bank also increased minimum monthly payments on credit
cards to between 25 percent and 40 percent of outstanding debt
from a previous 20 percent, and reduced the interest rates and
penalties that banks can charge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Bryant  in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
 Ali Berat Meric  in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Jerusalem at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 