-- Bankrupt Vallejo's Top Two Finance Officials Will Clean Out Their Desks
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/vallejo-s-top-two-finance-officials-to-depart-bankrupt-california-city.html
Two municipal finance officials who
helped steer  Vallejo , California’s two-year effort to emerge
from bankruptcy plan to leave their posts.  Robert Stout , 65, the finance director, said he will retire
Dec. 30, though he’ll stay on to help find his replacement. The
assistant finance director, Susan Mayer, will become chief
financial officer in Stockton, according to a  statement  from Bob
Deis, the city manager there.  Vallejo, a one-time Navy town near San Francisco, became a
national symbol for distressed municipal finances when it
entered Chapter 9 bankruptcy protection in 2008 after employee
unions refused to accept salary cuts.  “I’ve been doing this for almost 40 years,” Stout said in
a phone interview yesterday. “We have a city manager and a
five-year plan in place and it seems like a good time to move
on.”  He and Mayer, 52, who’s worked for Vallejo since 2005, will
remain until a five-year financial plan to exit bankruptcy is
presented to a judge next month, Stout said. A Vallejo
spokeswoman,  JoAnn West , didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Vallejo’s post-bankruptcy blueprint, approved by the city
council last month, spells out how it will deal with $195
million of unfunded pension obligations, its largest liability.
It delays payments to bondholders, trims employee benefits,
creates a rainy-day fund and allocates $5 million for unsecured
creditors. The bankruptcy-exit plan that includes the blueprint
must be submitted by Jan. 18.  Stockton , in the agricultural Central Valley, faces some of
Vallejo’s issues, Deis said in an interview.  “The main thing is having multi-year labor contracts that
are not sustainable with the ongoing revenues of the city,”
Deis said Dec. 6 by telephone. “What we have in common with
Vallejo is the employment groups are not buying into the
financial situation of the city.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Tannenbaum  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 