-- Weekend Storm Forecast to Head Into Atlantic, Sparing Northeast Snowfall
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2010-12-17T20:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/weekend-storm-forecast-to-head-into-atlantic-sparing-northeast-snowfall.html
Residents of New York and the
Northeast who’ve been bundling against icy weather will probably
be spared having to shovel snow this weekend.  A system expected to move to the north and east after
forming in the Gulf of Mexico was earlier given a 50-50 chance
of dropping snow on the region. It’s now forecast to miss, said
 Brian Ciemnecki , a meteorologist with the National Weather
Service in  Upton, New York .  “The storm is going to pass far enough to the south and
east that we’re not looking for much of a storm impact,”
Ciemnecki said.  Forecasters trying to predict the weather had difficulty
because of conflicting results from computer simulations, said
 Tom Downs , a meteorologist with commercial forecaster Weather
2000 Inc. in New York.  Those results now point to a track that will take the storm
far enough out into the Atlantic Ocean that it won’t affect most
of the East Coast. Cape Cod in Massachusetts may still be
brushed by the system, which still hasn’t developed, Downs said.  “You are going to see people downplay the storm,” he said
by telephone. “The people who tried to hype it yesterday will
downplay it today.”  Winter storms can cause airline, rail and highway delays as
well as power outages and even coastal flooding, depending on
the storm track.  From 1990 to 2009, winter storms accounted for 7.4 percent
of all catastrophic losses in the U.S., according to the
 Insurance Information Institute . Hurricanes and tropical storms
caused the most damage, at 45.2 percent of the total.  In the winter of 2009-2010, record-breaking amounts of snow
fell across the U.S., including in New York, Washington and
Baltimore. The Washington area got 1 to 2 inches (2.5. to 5
centimeters) of snow from a storm yesterday.  Cold air has gripped the New York region since Dec. 14,
when a high temperature in the mid-20s Fahrenheit (about minus-4
Celsius) was about 20 degrees lower than normal. Weekend highs
are expected to be in the mid-30s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  