-- Wells Fargo Surpasses JPMorgan Chase as Largest U.S. Bank by Market Value
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-17T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/wells-fargo-passes-jpmorgan-as-top-u-s-bank-by-value-of-shares.html
Wells Fargo & Co. , the San
Francisco-based lender that doubled its size by buying Wachovia
Corp. during the credit crisis, passed  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to
become the largest U.S. bank by stock-market value.  Wells Fargo’s market capitalization rose to $157.6 billion
at the close of New York trading yesterday,  surpassing 
JPMorgan’s $156.4 billion. Wells Fargo is ranked fourth by
assets and deposits, while JPMorgan is second behind Bank of
America Corp. and New York-based Citigroup Inc. is third.  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 57, has used
acquisitions to fuel growth at Wells Fargo. The lender completed
more than 55 purchases in the past five years, led by its $12.7
billion takeover of Wachovia in October 2008, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg . Wells Fargo had $622.4 billion in assets
in the quarter before it purchased Wachovia. It held $1.2
trillion in assets at the end of September.  Wells Fargo rose 0.8 percent yesterday to $30.02 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
advanced 11 percent this year, compared with a loss of 4 percent
at JPMorgan. The biggest shareholder in Wells Fargo is  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. with a 6.4 percent stake.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. mortgage lender, had
outperformed peers through Oct. 21 in part because it faces
fewer mortgage-repurchase demands from Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac
and private investors, FBR Capital Markets Corp. analysts led by
 Paul Miller  wrote in a report that day.  Repurchase Demands  A month later, in a Nov. 29 report, Miller said repurchase
demands combined could cost financial institutions $54 billion
to $106 billion. Any total losses suffered by Wells Fargo will
be outpaced by those at JPMorgan and Bank of America, Miller
estimated.  Yesterday wasn’t the first time Wells Fargo has been the
top bank by market value. On May 12, Wells Fargo passed  Bank of
America  as the most valuable U.S. bank before the Charlotte,
North Carolina-based company passed it on May 18, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  New York-based JPMorgan has held the lead for most of the
last two years, except for the five-month period between
February and July of this year when it repeatedly traded places
with Bank of America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dakin Campbell  in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  