-- Wesizwe Platinum Advances to Six-Month High After Agreeing Takeover Terms
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2010-12-17T10:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/wesizwe-platinum-of-south-africa-says-227-million-equity-sale-finalized.html
Wesizwe Platinum Ltd. , a South
African explorer of the metal, rose to a six-month high in
Johannesburg trading after agreeing on takeover terms with
Jinchuan Group Ltd., China’s largest platinum producer.  Wesizwe  climbed as much as 7.6 percent to 2.12 rand, the
highest price since June 18, and traded at 2.05 rand as of 11:42
a.m. local time for a value of 1.6 billion rand ($235 million).  Jinchuan , together with China-Africa Development Fund and
black investors group Micawber 809 Ltd., will buy new shares for
$227 million, or about 1.86 rand each, Wesizwe said. The deal
includes a debt commitment, giving the Johannesburg-based
company $877 million to build its first mine in South Africa,
the world’s largest supplier of platinum.  State-owned Jinchuan’s takeover boosts China’s access to
global resources to feed the world’s fastest-growing major
economy. Jinchuan also agreed in September to buy Continental
Minerals Corp. to gain gold and copper projects. It may hold an
initial public offering next year, China Securities Journal
reported in July, citing unidentified company officials.  Jinchuan  and China-Africa Development Fund, which will own
about 45 percent of Wesizwe after the transaction, agreed to
secure $650 million in project finance and any additional
funding to complete the Frischgewaagd-Ledig mine, Wesizwe said.
Micawber will own a 6 percent stake in the company.  Mine Cost  The estimated cost to dig the mine northwest of
Johannesburg is “similar” to a 2009 estimate of 6.6 billion
rand and it could start production around 2013,  Arthur Mashiatshidi , Wesizwe’s chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview from the city today.  The deal, subject to shareholder approval, provides a
“total financing solution” for the project, Wesizwe said. The
company struggled to get funds to build the mine after platinum
prices plummeted in 2008. The mine may produce 350,000 ounces of
platinum and related metals a year, according to the statement.  “This is a very significant investment, the largest
Chinese investment in mining in South Africa,”  Mike Solomon , a
director at Wesizwe said by mobile phone.  Platinum prices, which fell as much as two-thirds in London
trading in 2008 as a six-year commodity boom ended, have doubled
in the past two years to trade at $1,705 an ounce today.  China-Africa Development Fund was set in 2007 to implement
President Hu Jintao’s cooperation initiatives between China and
Africa. The size of the fund is $5 billion, according to
Wesizwe’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carli Lourens  in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  