-- Yuan Trading to Expand on Micex as China Market Ties Deepen: Russia Credit
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2010-12-17T08:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/yuan-trading-to-expand-on-micex-as-china-market-ties-deepen-russia-credit.html
Russia, the first country to offer
direct trading of yuan outside of China, plans to extend dealing
hours as increased exports spur demand for the currency.  “The potential is as big as the trading between the
countries,” said  Ruben Aganbegyan , president of the Micex Stock
Exchange, where the trades take place, said in an interview in
Moscow. “People need to see that it’s a real market and that
they can buy size.”  Banks led by  OAO Sberbank  and  VTB Group  have been buying
and selling yuan for rubles since Dec. 15. Transactions exceeded
the Micex’s estimate by 64 percent in the first day of trading
at 4.92 million yuan ($738,185). Trading currently lasts for one
hour from 10 a.m. in Moscow.  China, the fastest-growing major economy, and Russia, the
biggest energy exporter, are challenging the international role
of the dollar. Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  called in June
for the ruble to become a regional reserve currency and Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in March he was “worried” holding U.S.
assets after the financial crisis hobbled the world’s largest
economy.  Chinese exports to Russia surged 74 percent last month, the
biggest increase of the 20 nations and trade groups tracked by
the Beijing-based Customs General Administration, while Russian
trade flows to China hit a monthly  record  of $2.6 billion in May
this year. China  overtook Germany  to become Russia’s largest
trading partner along with the Netherlands in the first 10
months of this year as trade climbed 53 percent from the same
period last year to $47.5 billion, according to Russian customs
service data.  Cost Saving  Exporters will shave as much as 5 percent in transaction
costs by dealing in the local currency rather than in dollars,
 Viktor Melnikov , a deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank,
said at a conference in Moscow on Dec. 6. Russian importers of
Chinese manufactured goods and Chinese importers of Russian
products including timber, seafood and coking coal will be the
main clients of yuan-ruble trading, Melnikov said.  As much as 30 percent of all trade with China will be
conducted in the yuan within five years, said Oleg Radichkin,
HSBC Holdings Plc’s head of development and sales of bank
products in Moscow.  Rusal Yuan Bond  HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, concluded on Dec. 13 what it
said was the first Russian trade transaction in yuan for Moscow-
based sporting goods retailer  Sportmaster .  United Co. Rusal , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
plans to hire banks this month to sell yuan-denominated bonds as
early as the first quarter of 2011, said  Oleg Mukhamedshin , head
of capital markets at the Moscow based company.  A “reasonable” amount to raise would be about 1 billion
yuan, Mukhamedshin told reporters in Moscow today.  VTB, Russia’s second-largest bank, became the first company
from an emerging market outside Asia to sell bonds denominated
in Chinese yuan on Dec. 10. The three-year bonds were priced to
yield 2.95 percent, compared with a yield of 5.395 percent for
Moscow-based VTB’s five-year bonds in dollars, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Eurasian Development Bank, a lender run by the Russian and
Kazakh governments, based in Almaty, may issue part of its
planned $500 million of debt next year in yuan, Chairman  Igor Finogenov  said Dec. 13.  China, Russia Ties  Operations with the yuan “have a future” even if demand
isn’t so high at the moment,  German Gref , chief executive
officer of Russia’s largest lender, Sberbank, told reporters in
Moscow on Dec. 13. “There is no alternative for the dollar, but
the world is moving in a different direction, not toward a
single reserve currency.”  Rusal raised $2.2 billion in January in the first initial
public offering by a Russian company in Hong Kong.  “The relationship between Russia and China on the business
side is getting closer,” said  John-Paul Smith , a London-based
emerging markets strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, the world’s
largest currency trader. “You’ve got these Russian IPOs either
achieved or attempted in Hong Kong so relations have taken on
momentum.”  The ruble strengthened 0.3 percent to 46.1950 per 10 yuan
yesterday.  Transactions  topped 4.25 million yuan, or 19.6
million rubles yesterday, according to the exchange’s data. The
Micex, which is Russia’s biggest exchange by the amount traded,
expects about 3 million yuan to change hands each day, Vice
President Igor Marich said Dec. 6.  Extra Yield  The ruble snapped a three-day advance against the dollar
yesterday, sliding 0.2 percent to 30.7127 by the end of trading.
Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which provide a guide to
expectations of currency movements and interest rate
differentials and allow companies to hedge against currency
movements, showed the ruble yesterday at 31.0201 per dollar in
three months.  Russia’s dollar bonds due in 2020 fell yesterday, sending
the yield 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, higher to
5.11 percent. The price of the country’s ruble notes due August
2016 rose for a second day, pushing the yield down 10 basis
points to 7.59 percent, the lowest this week.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries rose 3 basis points to 204
yesterday, according to JPMorgan EMBI+ indexes. The spread
compared with 137 for debt of similarly rated Mexico and 177 for
Brazil, which is rated two steps lower at Baa3 by Moody’s.  The  spread  on Russian bonds is 37 basis points below the
average for emerging markets, the widest since Nov. 18,
according to JPMorgan indexes.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps was 141 basis
points yesterday, down from this year’s peak of 217, according
to data provider CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Credit-default swaps for Russia, rated Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its third-lowest investment grade rating,
cost nine basis points less than contracts for Turkey, which is
rated four levels lower at Ba2. Russia swaps  cost  as much as 40
basis points less on April 20.  VTB bought yuan on the Micex on the first day of trading
and will “function as a market maker,” according to a
statement issued Dec. 15. The state-controlled lender said it
will use yuan to finance trade operations and tourism.  Bank of Moscow  “The volume in ruble-yuan will unquestionably grow
significantly in the years to come,”  Yury Gruzglin , global head
of fixed income, currencies and commodities at Renaissance
Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail on Dec. 15. “Bilateral trade
will continue to grow between Russia and China and there seems
to be support to move away from the dollar as a settlement
currency for this.”  Renaissance has added the yuan-ruble cross-rate to the list
of trades it offers and has had demand from clients, Gruzglin
said.  Bank of Moscow has opened a trading account in yuan for  OAO
Kuibyshevazot , a Russian fertilizer maker that exports to China,
in July, the lender controlled by the capital city’s government
said Dec. 15. Deals amounted to 10 million yuan this year and
allowed the company to “minimize the expenses tied to
conversion and dollar rate fluctuations,” according to a Dec.
15 statement. The bank is considering taking part in yuan-ruble
trading, it said.  Bursa Malaysia  For demand to increase, China’s government needs to
encourage businesses to use the yuan in their dealings with
Russia,  Zhao Qingming , a senior analyst at China Construction
Bank Corp., the country’s second-largest lender, said from
Beijing yesterday.  “This is important in helping make the yuan a global
currency,” he said. “If there is little demand for yuan in
bilateral trade the trading volume between the yuan and ruble
won’t pick up.”  The Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Berhad, which sets the
global benchmark for crude palm oil, started accepting yuan as
margin collateral for trading on the Malaysian derivatives
market last month. The Chinese Gold & Silver Exchange will start
the first international gold contract in yuan early next year,
the Financial Times reported Dec. 14, citing exchange President
 Haywood Cheung .  China’s central bank set the  ruble’s reference rate  at
4.6246 per yuan yesterday, from 4.6229 on Dec. 15. The regulator
may allow trading in forwards and swap contracts on yuan-ruble,
Sergey Tsyplakov, the Russian trade representative, said this
week, according to China Business News.  “We’ll just see how the market performs and what volumes
are like and if the demand is there we’ll just extend it,”
Micex’s Aganbegyan said. “We’re quite opportunistic like
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma O’Brien  in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  