-- Hyundai E&C Shareholders to Vote on Ending Talks on Sale to Hyundai Group
-- B y   S o o k y u n g   S e o   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2010-12-17T08:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/hyundai-e-c-shareholders-to-vote-on-ending-talks-on-sale-to-hyundai-group.html
Hyundai Engineering & Construction
Co. ’s controlling shareholders may scrap talks on a sale to
 Hyundai Group  after saying the buyer had failed to allay
concerns about funding plans.  The shareholders, holding 35 percent of South Korea’s
biggest builder, plan to vote on whether to end discussions by
Dec. 22, Korea Exchange Bank, one of the group, said today in a
statement. Hyundai Group offered 5.5 trillion won ($4.8 billion)
for the stake, two people familiar with the matter said on Nov.
16, the day it was named preferred bidder.  “The documents that were submitted by Hyundai Group were
deemed insufficient,” Kim Hyo Sang, a director at  Korea
Exchange Bank , said today at a briefing in Seoul. “We will try
to conclude the matter as soon as possible.”  Hyundai Engineering rose the most in more than two months
in Seoul trading as the shareholders said they would also
consider whether to open talks with Hyundai Motor Group instead.
The automaker, which lost out in the November auction, may be
able to invest more money in the builder than Hyundai Group as
it has deeper cash reserves,  Byun Sung Jin , an analyst at Mirae
Asset Securities Co. has said.  Hyundai Group said its talks should continue. The group
said it had provided documents showing that it didn’t put up
collateral for a 1.2 trillion won loan from Paris-based  Natixis
SA . The agreement has formed the center of the shareholders’
concerns.  “We have provided documents that clearly show that all the
speculation about the loan is false,” the group said today in
an e-mailed statement. The group has rejected requests from the
Hyundai Engineering shareholders to provide a copy of the loan
agreement.  The  builder  gained 4.7 percent to 69,800 won at the close
of trading.  Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. , Hyundai Group’s biggest
unit and South Korea’s second-largest shipping line, dropped 1.7
percent to 41,650 won.  Hyundai Motor Co. , the country’s biggest
automaker, closed unchanged at 178,000 won.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sookyung Seo  in Seoul at 
 sseo10@bloomberg.net ;
 Kyunghee Park  in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  