-- Zloty Will Lag Behind Forint as Poland Delays Rate Increases, SocGen Says
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-12-17T16:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-17/zloty-will-lag-forint-as-poland-delays-rate-rises-socgen-says.html
The zloty may “underperform” the
Hungarian forint as slowing inflation leads Poland’s central
bank to delay interest rate increases, Societe Generale SA said.  The Polish currency will probably trade at 3.96 to 4.04 per
euro and is unlikely to advance toward 70 forint “in the coming
weeks,” strategists at the French bank including  Gaelle Blanchard  in London wrote in a note to clients. The zloty eased
0.3 percent to 3.9964 per euro as of 4:45 p.m. in Warsaw.  Polish  inflation  unexpectedly slowed in November on food
and transportation costs, a report showed on Dec. 14, lowering
the chance that annual price growth may top 3 percent this year
and force the central bank to start 2011 with a rate increase.
The zloty has appreciated 1.2 percent this month, lagging behind
the forint’s 2.8 percent advance against the euro, the biggest
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The zloty’s “soft” tone is “likely to persist into the
beginning of the year,” Societe Generale said. “We expect this
underperformance of the zloty versus the forint to last for some
time, as the carry dynamics become more supportive for the
forint.”  The forint has appreciated 2 percent in the past five days
and headed for the best weekly gain since July. Hungary in
November became the first of the European Union’s eastern
members to raise rates this year to combat the fastest inflation
since June and support the forint.  Interest Rates  The increase in the benchmark  two-week deposit rate  to 5.5
percent from a record-low 5.25 percent signals the start of a
monetary tightening cycle, online news portal Index said on Dec.
3, citing central bank President  Andras Simor . The central bank
will decide on interest rates on Dec. 20. Eight of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expect the main rate to rise by another
quarter percentage point.  The Polish central bank voted against increasing its main
interest rate for a fourth month in November as the economy
lacked wage and inflation pressures, minutes from last month
meeting released yesterday showed. Policy makers have kept the
 benchmark rate  unchanged at a record-low 3.5 percent for 17
months even as economic growth accelerated to the fastest pace
in two years in the third quarter.  The Monetary Policy Council “appears unwilling to trigger
any zloty strengthening via large rate hikes,” Societe Generale
wrote. The bank expects the first interest rate increase to come
in March next year, followed by another one in the second
quarter, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  