-- Labor Groups Rally in Washington to Urge Jobs Spending, Counter Tea Party
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2010-10-02T18:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/labor-groups-rally-in-washington-to-urge-jobs-spending-counter-tea-party.html
Labor and civil rights groups
gathered today at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, the site
of a rally by Tea Party activists last month, to urge more
government spending to create jobs and help people suffering
from the recession.  “We’re the antidote to the Tea Party,” said  Ben Jealous ,
president of the civil rights group NAACP, referring to Tea
Party groups who seek to limit government’s size and spending.
“This march is about pulling America together and putting
people back to work.”  Rally organizers, including the  AFL-CIO labor federation 
and other labor, civil rights, religious, student, peace, and
gay and lesbian groups that are part of the traditional
Democratic party base, say they hope to turn attention to the
people who helped elect Democrat  Barack Obama  president two
years ago and are now disappointed with the results.  “We’re not as strong as we used to be, but we’re still
here,” said Dave Hausman, 55, a General Motors Co. driver from
Buffalo, N.Y., who came to the event with other United Auto
Workers union members. “It doesn’t always seem like the
politicians can fix things anymore.”  Democrats are fighting to preserve their majorities in the
House and Senate in the Nov. 2 elections in the face of an
 unemployment rate  that remains close to 10 percent.  Demanding Change  Today’s event “is a chance to demand the change we voted
for in 2008,” said  George Gresham , president of  1999 SEIU
United Healthcare Workers East . “While some want to divide us
and take us back, we are determined to move forward with new
investments in our people.”  Organizers labeled the rally “One Nation Working
Together,” urging increased government spending on
infrastructure and other public works projects, an extension of
unemployment benefits and an increase in the minimum wage.  Marchers carried signs representing a range of causes,
such as “Stop Robbing the Middle Class the Pay the Rich,”
“Raise the Minimum Wage,” “No More Big Oil -- Our Fish and
Our Human Beings Need Justice.”  “We’ve had it with a corporate America that insists on
higher and higher CEO pay,”  Service Employees International
Union President  Mary Kay Henry  said. ‘We’re standing up and
speaking out against corporate greed. We’ve had it.”  Tea Party Politics  Fox News commentator  Glenn Beck  and 2008 Republican vice
presidential nominee  Sarah Palin  staged an Aug. 28 “Restoring
Honor” rally on the  National Mall  that attracted Tea Party
activists. The Tea Party, a loose coalition of voters seeking
limits on government spending, taxes and debt, is mounting a
nationwide effort to get voters to the polls in the midterm
elections.  Democrats argue that the fiscally conservative Tea Party
candidates will alienate many voters. Still the Tea Party has
helped insurgent candidates such as  Rand Paul  in Kentucky win
Republican Senate primary races.  Labor leaders say they want to take on the Tea Party
movement in the elections with a pro-union message for voters.
“The AFL-CIO is determined that the Tea Party and its corporate
backers are not going to get the final word,” Arlene Holt
Baker, vice president of the 11-million member union federation,
said last month.  Unions are concentrating their election campaigns on 26
states, targeting about 70 of the 435 races for the House of
Representatives.  Enthusiasm Gap  “There remains an enthusiasm gap in the Democratic base,”
said  John Fortier , a political analyst at the Washington-based
 American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research . “What
will really matter in November, though, are the middle-of-the-
road moderates who don’t come to any of these rallies.”  The Obama administration yesterday touted its $787 billion
economic stimulus package in a report that says the $551 billion
spent so far has created or preserved some 3.3 million jobs.  The report, issued a month before the midterm elections,
was designed to counter Republican criticism that the program
did little to reduce the unemployment rate while contributing to
a projected $1.47 trillion deficit.  Meanwhile,  Comedy Central  television hosts  Jon Stewart  and
Stephen Colbert have announced they will host dueling rallies in
Washington on Oct. 30 -- the weekend before the election --aimed
at giving people the option to “restore sanity” or “keep fear
alive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Holly Rosenkrantz  in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lleibert@bloomberg.net  