-- American Apparel Said to Hire FTI to Help Operations
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/american-apparel-hires-fti-not-planning-bankruptcy-filing-lawyer-says.html
American Apparel Inc. , the Los
Angeles clothing retailer, hired FTI Consulting Inc. to improve
its operations and doesn’t plan to file for bankruptcy, a lawyer
representing the company said.  FTI is advising the company how to increase productivity at
its factories and is validating financial information, Peter
Schey, a Los Angeles-based lawyer, said yesterday.  FTI , based in
West Palm Beach, Florida, advises companies on litigation,
mergers and restructuring matters and has worked with Circuit
City Stores Inc. and CIT Group Inc.  “Once we get the factory efficient and elevate the top
line of the overall enterprise by focusing on individual store
sales productivity, we think we have a great story that will
bring value to shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer  Dov Charney , 41, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’re
going to be fine.”  American Apparel, which targets young people with colorful
T-shirts and dresses, has posted back-to-back quarterly  losses 
after expanding too fast. The company fielded inquiries from
regulators over changing accounting firms and risks removal from
the NYSE Amex for failing to file financial reports on time.  “I think they’re a prime filing candidate,” said  George Whalin , president of Retail Management Consultants in Carlsbad,
California. “I just don’t see how they’re going to get out of
this without going through bankruptcy.”  American Apparel rose 20 cents, or 16 percent, to $1.43 in
NYSE Amex composite  trading  yesterday. The exchange has given
the retailer until Nov. 15 to file its results for the quarter
ended June 30, following the change in auditors.  Debt, Earnings  Deloitte & Touche LLP quit in July and told American
Apparel its 2009 financial  statements  may not be reliable. The
change prompted a subpoena from the U.S. attorney’s office in
New York and inquiries from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The retailer said yesterday it amended an $80 million  loan 
agreement with London-based Lion Capital LLP for a fourth time,
helping it avoid violating debt covenants. The change postponed
until next year a requirement for American Apparel to achieve an
earnings target.  In August, the company said operating losses might put it
in breach of a debt covenant, giving lenders the right to demand
immediate repayment. The new agreement requires the retailer to
post $20 million in  earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the 12-month period beginning
Jan. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Matt Townsend  in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  