-- Manchester United Draws 0-0 at Sunderland, Tottenham Defeats Villa at Home
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2010-10-02T17:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/manchester-united-draws-0-0-at-sunderland-tottenham-defeats-villa-at-home.html
Manchester United drew 0-0 at
Sunderland, losing a chance to tie Chelsea at the top of
England’s Premier League. Tottenham came back to win 2-1 at home
against Aston Villa.  United survived several close efforts by Sunderland, with
Bolo Zenden hitting the post in the first half, and  Darren Bent 
missing from close. United, whose locker room was flooded by a
burst pipe before the start, has now drawn four straight away
matches. Chelsea hosts third-place Arsenal tomorrow.  In London, Spurs got goals from  Rafael Van  der Vaart in
each half after going behind to Villa on a goal from Marc
Albrighton. The loss ended  Gerard Houllier ’s perfect record as
Villa manager.  “They started very well,” Tottenham coach  Harry Redknapp 
said in televised remarks. “They were dangerous on the break.
We were better in the second half. We were stronger than them in
the second half.”  Everton defeated Birmingham 2-0 on a Roger Johnson own-goal
and an injury-time header from  Tim Cahill . The loss ended
Birmingham’s unbeaten streak in 18-league home matches. The
three points means Everton moves out of last place, and
Liverpool drops into the relegation zone.  West Ham came back with a Frederic Piquionne goal to draw
1-1 with Fulham at home. Fulham, which has tied six of its seven
league games this season, got a goal from  Clint Dempsey .  Stoke defeated Blackburn 1-0 at home as Jon Walters scored
his first league goal. West Brom came back with a James Morrison
header to draw 1-1 at home with Bolton, which went ahead in the
second half when  Johan Elmander  scored.  Wigan’s Jordi Gomez and Hugo Rodallega scored as the club
beat Wolves 2-0 at home to move out of the relegation zone.  Gomez scored with a free kick in the 65th minute and
Rodallega took advantage of poor defending to grab the second in
85th minute. Wolves captain Karl Henry was dismissed in the
first half for an illegal challenge on Gomez.  The victory gives Wigan 8 points from 7 matches, pushing
the team into 10th place. Wolves drop into the relegation zone
in 18th place, with 5 points from 7 games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  