-- Mandela Charity's Former Head Charged Over Receiving Diamonds From Model
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-10-02T12:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/mandela-charity-s-former-head-charged-over-receiving-diamonds-from-model.html
Jeremy Ratcliffe, the former head of
 Nelson Mandela ’s charity who admitted receiving uncut diamonds
from model  Naomi Campbell , was charged in a Johannesburg court
this week.  Ratcliffe was charged on Sept. 28 with possession of uncut
diamonds under the Contravention of Diamonds Act, Mthunzi Mhaga,
spokesman for the National Prosecuting Authority, said in a
phone interview from Johannesburg today.  On Aug. 5, Campbell told the war crimes trial of former
Liberian President  Charles Taylor  that two strangers gave her
some “dirty looking stones” after a 1997 dinner at the home of
then South African president Mandela. She testified that she
handed the diamonds to Ratcliffe, who was chief executive
officer of Mandela’s charity at the time. Ratcliffe handed the
diamonds to South African police on Aug. 6 after Campbell’s
testimony.  Ratcliffe wasn’t asked to plead when he appeared in the
Wynberg magistrate court this week, Mhaga said. The case was
postponed until Oct. 27 to give Ratcliffe time to make
representations to the head of the prosecuting agency, he added.  The Johannesburg-based  Saturday Star , which reported today
on Ratcliffe’s court appearance, said the charges carry a 10-
year jail sentence.  Calls to the Johannesburg office line of Bridget Masango,
spokeswoman of the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund, weren’t
answered today.  Taylor is facing charges at the Special Court for Sierra
Leone in The Hague, including enlisting child soldiers, murder
and sexual slavery during the 1991-2002 civil war in the West
African country, which claimed as many as 250,000 lives. He has
denied the charges, as well as allegations that he provided
weapons to fighters in the Revolutionary United Front, a Sierra
Leone rebel movement, in exchange for diamonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  