-- Asian Stocks Rise for Fifth Week on Positive U.S., China Economic Reports
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2010-10-02T00:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/asian-stocks-rise-for-a-fifth-week-as-u-s-china-data-signal-recovery.html
Asian  stocks  rose for a fifth
straight week as government and industry reports from the U.S.
and China fueled confidence in a global economic recovery.  BHP Billiton Ltd. , a mining company that counts China as
its biggest market for sales, rose 1.1 percent in Sydney as
commodity prices gained after reports showed Chinese
manufacturing increased in September. Korea Zinc Co. gained 6.5
percent in Seoul.  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. , a Japanese
carmaker that counts North America as its biggest market, leapt
11 percent in Tokyo after U.S. reports on capital-goods orders,
economic growth, unemployment and business activity.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 1.2 percent this week to
127.06 after climbing to a five-month high. It gained 8.4
percent in September, the  largest monthly advance  since July
2009. The 12 percent climb in the three months ended yesterday
was the biggest quarterly increase of the past year.  “Rising capital investments in the U.S. is a positive sign
that shows companies expect demand to increase in the next few
months,” said  Ng Soo Nam , Singapore-based chief investment
officer at Nikko Asset Management Co., which has $123 billion in
assets globally. “The stock rally may continue given that
valuations are fair, but we have to watch whether the
improvements in economic data are sustainable.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  lost 0.7 percent. Tokyo
Electric Power Co., Asia’s largest electricity generator,
tumbled after saying it will sell shares. Takefuji Corp., a
consumer lender, plunged 97 percent after filing for bankruptcy
protection. Nintendo Co., the world’s largest maker of portable
video-game players, tumbled 13 percent after cutting its profit
and dividend forecasts.  Chinese Stocks Advance  China’s Shanghai Composite Index rose 2.5 percent and Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index increased 1.1 percent in their holiday-
shortened weeks. South Korea’s Kospi index advanced 1.6 percent.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index  dropped 0.5 percent.  Nufarm
Ltd. , the country’s largest supplier of farm chemicals, plunged
after UBS AG cut the company’s investment rating to “sell”
from “neutral.”  BHP Billiton, the world’s largest mining company and
Australia’s biggest oil producer, gained 1.1 percent to A$39.46
in Sydney. Korea Zinc jumped 6.5 percent to 303,000 won in Seoul
and  Jiangxi Copper Co. , China’s No. 1 producer of the metal,
rose 5.9 percent to HK$19.66 in Hong Kong.  Oil and metals increased this week after reports showed
manufacturing accelerated in China in September. HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics released their purchasing managers’
index on Sept. 29, and China’s logistics federation and
statistics bureau released its manufacturing gauge on Oct. 1.  ‘Reassured Investors’  “A rise in PMI reassured investors about the strength of
the Chinese economy,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior
strategist in Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $111 billion.  Crude oil futures for November delivery settled at a seven-
week high of $79.97 a barrel on Sept. 30. The London Metal
Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals climbed on
Sept. 29 to the highest level since April, and copper rose to a
26-month high yesterday.  Fuji Heavy, which makes cars under the Subaru brand and
received 43 percent of its sales from North America last fiscal
year, gained 11 percent to 545 yen in Tokyo.  Canon Inc. , the
world’s largest camera maker, rose 4.6 percent to 3,970 yen.
 Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. , a contract maker of mobile-
phones that receives about 23 percent of its revenue from the
Americas, gained 2.3 percent to HK$5.70 in Hong Kong.  U.S. Economic Data  Orders for U.S. capital equipment rebounded 4.1 percent in
August from a 5.3 percent decline in July, figures from the
Commerce Department showed on Sept. 24 in Washington. The median
forecasts of 11 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an
increase of 3 percent.  “It’s positive for the whole global economy that demand
for capital investment in the private sector is strong,” said
 Tomochika Kitaoka , a senior strategist at Mizuho Securities Co.
in Tokyo. “Demand should rise further. Capital investment is
still at 80 percent of the peak.”  U.S. data on Sept. 30 showed the economy grew at a 1.7
percent annual rate in the second quarter, faster than the 1.6
percent previously estimated. Initial jobless claims fell to
453,000 in the week ended Sept. 25, less than the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Institute
for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its  business barometer 
climbed to 60.4 in September, exceeding the highest estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The MSCI Asia Pacific has advanced about 5 percent this
year on speculation growth in corporate profits will weather
Europe’s debt crisis, Chinese steps to curb property price
inflation and concern about the pace of a U.S. economic rebound.
Stocks in the gauge trade at about 14 times  estimated profit  on
average, near the highest level in seven weeks.  “People are seeing improvements in the economic recovery,
and the situation is much better than they expected a few months
ago,” said  Steven Leung , director of institutional sales at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “Liquidity in the market has been quite
abundant.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
 Anna Kitanaka  in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 