-- Latvians Vote in First Election After Enduring World's Deepest Recession
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-10-02T13:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/latvians-vote-in-first-election-after-enduring-world-s-deepest-recession.html
Latvians are voting in the first
parliamentary elections since the country cut wages, raised
taxes and slashed spending to pull the economy out of the
world’s deepest  recession .  Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis ’ Unity party is about
even with Harmony Center, a party that appeals to the Russian
minority, which has never been in government, opinion polls
show. Voting stations opened at 7 a.m. Riga time and close at 8
p.m. Turnout was 46.6 percent by 4 p.m., the central election
committee said. The first exit poll by Latvian Television and
the Baltic News Service is expected at about 8 p.m.  The economy shrank a cumulative 25 percent in 2008 and 2009
as a property boom turned to bust and the country’s second-
largest bank failed, forcing Latvia to turn to a group led by
the European Union and the International Monetary Fund for a 7.5
billion-euro ($10.3 billion) loan. The next premier will have to
cut the  budget deficit  by almost two-thirds by 2012.  “I find it hard to see any major change in economic policy
given the lack of viable and credible alternatives to the
agreement with the IMF and the EU,” said  Morten Hansen , head of
the economics department at the Stockholm School of Economics in  Polling Even  Harmony was backed by 21.2 percent of voters, compared with
19.2 percent for Unity in a Sept. 25-27 poll by  Latvijas Fakti .
Greens & Farmers and For Fatherland & Freedom, the other members
of Dombrovskis’ coalition, had 9.9 percent and 5.2 percent,
respectively. For a Good Latvia, led by members of the previous
government, was at 7.8 percent. About 19 percent of the 1,004
respondents were undecided. The margin of error was 3.2 percent.  “I voted Harmony Center, because those guys know how it’s
possible to earn money, how the state should be earning money
instead of taking away from the pensioners and children, who
can’t provide for themselves,” said Tamara, 57, a Russian
speaker who didn’t give a last name, after casting her vote at a
children’s school in central Riga.  The decline in Latvia’s economic output during the past two
years was the deepest in the world, according to an IMF  working
paper  published on Sept. 1. The country has implemented
austerity measures equal to 14 percent of gross domestic product
since the bailout program began in late 2008, according to the
Latvian central bank.  ‘Unprecedented’ Cuts  Those savings were the biggest among the three Baltic
states, whose austerity measures were “unprecedented by
historical and international standards,” the IMF said.  More spending cuts and tax increases will be needed to
reduce the budget deficit to 3 percent of GDP in 2012 from about
8.5 percent this year and qualify for the euro in 2014.  Dombrovskis, 39, is likely to form the next government
because he is the candidate who most closely meets President
 Valdis Zatlers ’ criteria of backing the international loan and
maintaining Latvia’s links to the EU and NATO. The president
will nominate a prime minister, who must then form a government.  Dombrovskis, who cast his ballot in the Latvian city of
Ligatne, northeast of the capital, said most recent polls show
“that the current coalition could get a majority,” according to
the  Baltic News Service . Dombrovskis said he didn’t see a
possibility to be in a government led by Harmony, even if the
rival party garners more votes, the Riga-based newswire
reported.  “I voted for Unity, because behind Dombrovskis stands real
work,” said Baiba Nollendorfa, who didn’t give her age. “He is
honest. There is great hope, I think for the most part it’s
because of this person.”  Coalition Makeup  While there is a “big possibility” that Dombrovskis’ three-
party coalition will have more than 50 lawmakers in the 100-seat
parliament, adding Harmony would help shield the government from
public anger at further budget cuts, said  Aigars Freimanis ,
director of Latvijas Fakti.  Even if Harmony doesn’t take part in the next Cabinet, no
government since independence has survived a four-year term,
meaning the party may get the chance to join a future coalition.  Dombrovskis, a former finance minister and central bank
economist, was named prime minister on Feb. 26, 2009, two weeks
after his predecessor’s four-party coalition collapsed. Latvia
almost ran out of money before the new government approved a
supplementary budget that ensured the continued flow of funds
from the IMF and EU.  Latvia’s credit default swaps, which investors use to
protect against default or speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, surged to 1,193 basis points in March 2009. They
fell to 328.5 basis points on Oct. 1, below the costs for
Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Romania.  None of the 15 governments Latvia has had since
independence included a party representing Russian speakers, a
group that includes Ukrainians and Belorussians. After 45 years
as part of the Soviet Union, many Latvians distrusted parties
advocating ties with Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  