-- Latvia Ruling Coalition Wins Reelection; Dombrovskis Stays Prime Minister
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2010-10-03T12:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/latvia-s-ruling-coalition-gains-majority-with-55-of-vote-exit-polls-show.html
Latvia’s ruling coalition may form
the next government after the three parties won a majority in
the Baltic nation’s first parliamentary election since it
suffered the world’s deepest  recession .  The parties backing Prime Minister  Valdis Dombrovskis  won
57.7 percent of the vote with almost all the precincts
reporting. The premier’s Unity party has 30.7 percent to 25.7
percent for the opposition Harmony Center. Unity won 33 seats in
the 100-member legislature, according to preliminary data.  The voting was a “positive surprise,” Dombrovskis, 39, said
in televised remarks after the preliminary results were
released. Preliminary results show the government will “gain a
convincing majority, which to my mind is reason for the current
government to continue to work,” he said.  Unity topped the vote even after Dombrovskis raised taxes
and cut spending, including wages for public employees, to meet
the terms of a 7.5 billion-euro ($10.3 billion) bailout led by
the International Monetary Fund and European Union. The next
premier will have to reduce the  budget deficit  by almost two-
thirds by 2012 to comply with EU rules.  ‘Painful Austerity Measures’  “This is a very big win,” said  Nils Muiznieks , a professor
of political science at the University of Latvia. “It’s quite
striking in a broader European context as well. How did voters
react to this crisis? They voted for a Prime Minister who put
through painful austerity measures.”  Latvia’s economy shrank a cumulative 25 percent in 2008 and
2009 as a property boom turned to bust and the country’s second-
largest bank failed.  Dombrovskis, a former finance minister and central bank
economist, was named prime minister on Feb. 26, 2009, two weeks
after his predecessor’s four-party Cabinet collapsed. Upon
taking power, he warned that Latvia was “on the verge of
bankruptcy.” His government approved a supplementary budget that
ensured the continued flow of funds from the IMF and EU.  The two smaller coalition parties, Greens & Farmers and For
Fatherland, received 19.4 percent and 7.5 percent, respectively.
The opposition For a Good Latvia had about 7.6 percent. Turnout
was 63 percent.  ‘Can’t Ignore Harmony’  Based on the preliminary results, the current government
would have 63 seats in the 100-seat parliament, according to
estimates by the central election commission. Among opposition
parties, Harmony would gain 29 seats and For a Good Latvia would
have 8. Representatives of the governing parties will meet
today, Dombrovskis said.  Some members of the ruling coalition have suggested
cooperating with Harmony, which represents the Russian-speaking
minority, a group that hasn’t been part of a government since
Latvia declared independence from the Soviet Union in 1991.  “We can’t ignore Harmony Center and leave them out,” said
Solvita Aboltina, a Unity member of parliament, according to the
newswire  Leta . “We have to think of ways of how to democratize
parliament and involve the opposition in its work.”  Striking a deal with Harmony on the government level could
mean Unity “could get a piece of Riga as well,” where Harmony
has control of the municipality, said Muiznieks.  Adding Harmony to the government would remove a “strong and
unified party from opposition,” said Muiznieks. One alternative
may be a coalition with Unity, the Greens and Farmers and
Harmony, which would control 84 votes in the 100-seat
parliament, a “huge majority where no one party would be
essential,” he said.  Still, the most likely outcome was the return of the
current government, he said.  More Cuts Needed  The next government will face a budget deficit of about 8.5
percent of gross domestic product this year, with plans in place
to cut the shortfall to 6 percent in the 2011 budget.  The next government will have “hard work” ahead with next
year’s budget, Dombrovskis said.  For a Good Latvia, which is made up of the People’s Party
and Latvia’s First Party, led the four-party coalition that
governed Latvia during the boom period, and was blamed by some
voters for the crisis. The party won 33 seats in the 2006
election.  The decline in Latvia’s economy during the past two years
was the deepest in the world, according to an IMF  working paper 
published Sept. 1. The country has implemented austerity
measures equal to 14 percent of GDP since the bailout program
began in late 2008, according to the Latvian central bank.  ‘Unprecedented’ Austerity  The spending cuts and tax increases implemented by
Dombrovskis’ government were the biggest among the three Baltic
states, where were “unprecedented by historical and
international standards,” the IMF said.  Latvian  unemployment  increased to 20.4 percent in the first
quarter, from 5.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007,
according to a labor force survey. The figure fell to 19.4
percent in the second quarter.  The economy saw its first quarterly growth in the first and
second quarters, expanding 0.3 percent and 0.8 percent, and is
expected to contract around 1.5 percent for the year, according
to Swedbank AB, the biggest bank in the Baltic states.  Latvia’s credit default swaps, which investors use to
protect against default or speculate on a borrower’s credit
worthiness, surged to 1,193 basis points in March 2009. They
fell to 328.5 basis points on Oct. 1, below the costs for
Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Romania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Eglitis  in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  