-- Banks Fail in Florida, Washington as U.S. Closures Reach 129 for This Year
-- B y   D a n   R e i c h l
-- 2010-10-02T01:43:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/banks-fail-in-florida-washington-as-u-s-closures-reach-129-for-this-year.html
Lenders in Florida and Washington
collapsed today, pushing the number of  U.S. bank failures  to 129
for the year, as financial firms suffer losses on loans tied to
real estate.  Wakulla Bank, based in Crawfordville, Florida, was seized
by a state regulator, according to a  statement  posted on the
website of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which was named
receiver. Shoreline Bank, in Shoreline, Washington, was also
closed,  the FDIC said . The two actions drained $154.8 million
from the FDIC deposit-insurance fund.  The agency’s list of “problem” banks climbed to 829
lenders with $403 billion in assets at the end of the second
quarter, a 7 percent increase from the 775 on the list in the
first quarter. The U.S. may lose about a third of its banks as
the weakening economy weeds out the least healthy institutions,
said  John Kanas , chief executive officer of BankUnited.  The FDIC said it insured deposits at 7,830 financial
institutions as of June 30. Banks are failing at a faster pace
than last year, which saw the most failures since 1992, as real
estate values remain depressed and economic recovery stays
sluggish. Regulators closed 140 banks last year.  “Most of us in the business think we probably need 5,000
and think we are on our way to 5,000 as this cycle, if this is a
cycle, unfolds,” Kanas, 63, said on Sept. 30 at the Bloomberg
Dealmakers Summit in New York. “We simply chartered too many
banks.”  Private Equity  Kanas became CEO of Miami Lakes, Florida-based BankUnited
last year by joining a group of private equity investors who
agreed to inject about $900 million into the collapsed Florida
lender. The other investors include Carlyle Group, Centerbridge
Capital Partners, WL Ross & Co., and Blackstone Group LP.  Home Bancshares Inc.’s  Centennial Bank  in Conway, Arkansas,
acquired Wakulla’s 12 branches and $386.3 million in deposits,
according to the FDIC statement.  Home Bancshares said the acquisition will immediately boost
earnings and book value per share. Centennial Bank enters the
Tallahassee, Florida, market with the deal, the company said in
a statement. The FDIC will shares losses on more than $200
million of Wakulla’s loans, Home Bancshares said.  GBC International Bank, based in Los Angeles, assumed
Shoreline Bank’s $100.2 million in deposits and will take over
its three branches, the FDIC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Reichl  in San Francisco at 
 dreichl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 