-- Bank of America Freezes Foreclosure Actions to Ensure Documents Are Proper
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-10-02T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/bank-of-america-freezes-foreclosure-cases-to-review-documents.html
Bank of America Corp. , the biggest
U.S. bank by assets and deposits, delayed foreclosures after a
federal regulator called for a review because lenders may have
submitted defective documents when repossessing homes.  Bank of America will investigate all affidavits in cases
that have not yet gone to judgment in 23 states where courts
have jurisdiction over home seizures,  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for
the bank, said yesterday. He estimated “tens of thousands” of
documents will be studied and the process will take from
“several days to a couple of weeks.”  Court documents showed  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and Ally
Financial Inc. employees may have submitted affidavits without
confirming their accuracy. Federal lawmakers and state officials
have said such practices could amount to fraud. JPMorgan said it
will ask judges to postpone foreclosure rulings, while Detroit-
based Ally said Sept. 21 its GMAC Mortgage unit would halt
evictions.  Bank of America’s freeze “hopefully will give peace of
mind to those monitoring the industry that we’ve used an
abundance of caution that those foreclosures in process are
handled correctly,” Frahm said in an interview. The Charlotte,
North Carolina-based firm isn’t acknowledging that its
associates made errors, Frahm said.  “The extent of the problem is enormous,” said  Max Gardner ,
a Shelby, North Carolina, attorney representing borrowers
alleging improper servicing practices by banks. “We have a
problem in the housing market right now, given the inability to
sell properties and declining property values, but the economic
downside from this problem is even more monumental.”  State, Federal Action  Acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh  this week
asked the nation’s seven biggest lenders to review foreclosures
for defective documents, spokesman  Bryan Hubbard  said. Attorneys
general in at least six states are investigating claims that
home lenders and loan servicers took shortcuts to speed
foreclosures.  Home foreclosures in Connecticut should be frozen for 60
days because of “defective” documents, Attorney General
 Richard Blumenthal  said in a request to the state Judicial
Department. In California, Attorney General  Jerry Brown  said
JPMorgan should be asked to prove its home foreclosures are
legal, and must stop the practice if it can’t.  Lenders took possession of a record 95,364 homes in August
and issued foreclosure filings to 338,836 homeowners, or one of
every 381 U.S. households, according to RealtyTrac, an Irvine,
California-based data seller.  Citigroup, Wells Fargo  Citigroup Inc. , the third-largest U.S. bank by assets,
constantly reviews its document processes, “and we have strong
training to ensure that appropriate employees are fully aware of
the proper procedures,” spokesman  Mark Rodgers  said in an
e-mailed statement. “Foreclosures are monitored to make certain
that staffing is adequate to review the affidavits properly.”  Wells Fargo & Co., the nation’s biggest  home lender , said
its “policies, procedures and practices satisfy us that the
affidavits we sign are accurate,” according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday from Vickee Adams at the San Francisco-based
bank. “We will stand by our affidavits and, if we find an
error, we will take the appropriate corrective action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Mildenberg  in Charlotte at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alec D.B. McCabe in New York at 
 amccabe@bloomberg.net . 