-- California’s Whitman, Brown Clash Over Undocumented Worker
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2010-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/california-s-whitman-brown-clash-over-undocumented-worker.html
Meg Whitman , the Republican running
for governor of California, and her Democratic opponent  Jerry Brown  clashed over an undocumented worker who says Whitman
employed her knowing she was in the U.S. illegally.  Whitman yesterday said Brown used her former housekeeper
to further his political ambitions and Brown said Whitman is
“talking from both sides of her mouth.”  “Jerry, you know you should be ashamed,” Whitman said,
addressing Brown directly during the second of three scheduled
debates held at California State University, Fresno. “You put
her out there, and you should be ashamed for sacrificing Nicky
Diaz on the altar of your political ambitions.”  Brown denied that his campaign was behind the allegations
and said he has never hired an undocumented worker.  “You had the information, or at least you had enough to know
there was something wrong here,” Brown, 72, a two-term former
governor now serving as attorney general, said to Whitman.
“Don’t run for governor if you can’t stand up on your own two
feet and say: ‘Hey, I made a mistake. I’m sorry. Let’s go on
from here.’”  At a Sept. 29 news conference with Los Angeles attorney
 Gloria Allred , Whitman’s former housekeeper Nicky Diaz Santillan
accused Whitman, 54, the former chief executive officer of the
Internet commerce site  Ebay Inc.,  of knowing Diaz was in the
U.S. illegally and firing her only after deciding to run for
office.  Political Stunt  Whitman denied the assertion and called it a political
stunt connected with Brown’s campaign. Whitman said she
dismissed Diaz, who worked for the family for nine years, in
June 2009 immediately after the woman admitted falsifying
immigration documents.  Whitman said yesterday her lawyer advised her that there
wasn’t anything she could do to help Diaz because she had false
documents and was in the U.S. illegally.  California ’s population, the largest in the U.S., is more
than one-third Hispanic. Latinos make up 18 percent of all
likely voters and almost two-thirds are registered as Democrats,
according to the nonpartisan  Public Policy Institute of
California , based in San Francisco. Yesterday’s debate was
sponsored in part by the Spanish-language network  Univision .  Whitman said she would support Latinos by creating jobs and
improving primary and secondary education.  “I will do the best I can to find jobs, but also to be
fair,” Brown said. “I will treat everybody, whether they are
documented or not, as God’s child.”  Path to Legalization  Brown supports a path toward legalization for undocumented
immigrants, he said. He opposes cutting state services to
undocumented workers and supports allowing illegal immigrants to
attend public universities in California.  Whitman said employers who hire illegal immigrants should
be held accountable, and has proposed improving the procedures
for employers to verify the immigration status of workers. She
also wants to eliminate policies used in cities including San
Francisco that provide sanctuary from federal immigration laws
for undocumented immigrants.  “Illegal immigration is just that -- it is illegal,”
Whitman said.  A  Field Poll  of likely voters released Sept. 23 showed
Whitman and Brown tied at 41 percent while, among Latinos, Brown
led Whitman, 43 percent to 40 percent. The margin for error was
plus or minus 4.1 percentage points overall and 5.8 percentage
points for Latinos, a smaller sample.  The candidates are scheduled to meet again on Oct. 12 at
Dominican University in San Rafael, California. The election is
on Nov. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alison Vekshin  in Fresno, California, at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 