-- Canada's Currency Strengthens as Oil Rises Amid Increase in Risk Appetite
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-10-02T04:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/canada-s-currency-strengthens-as-oil-rises-amid-increase-in-risk-appetite.html
The Canadian dollar strengthened for
a fifth straight week, its longest winning streak in more than
16 months, as stronger U.S. economic data and climbing oil
prices boosted demand for assets tied to growth.  The currency, nicknamed the loonie for the bird’s image on
the C$1 coin, touched the strongest level since August as U.S.
reports showed consumer spending rose, business activity
unexpectedly quickened and fewer jobless-benefits claims were
filed. The advance was tempered by speculation the Bank of
Canada won’t raise  interest rates  further this year. Canadian
employers added jobs last month, a report next week may show.  “The stronger U.S. data is going to become, the bigger the
rally in the Canadian dollar can be,” said  Boris Schlossberg ,
director of research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New
York. “The fate of the Canadian dollar is so intrinsically tied
to U.S. fundamentals that it’s only an improvement in U.S.
fundamentals that’s going to rally the Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to C$1.0197 per
U.S. dollar in New York, from C$1.0241 on Sept. 24, capping its
longest streak of gains since the six weeks ended May 8, 2009.
One Canadian dollar purchases 98.07 U.S. cents. The loonie
gained 3.5 percent in September, the most since March.  The U.S. is Canada’s largest trading partner, and the two
countries conduct the world’s largest bilateral trade
relationship, worth $565 billion in 2008, according to the
website of the U.S. Embassy in Ottawa.  Oil Climbs  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, climbed to the highest
level in more than seven weeks yesterday after reports from the
U.S. and China bolstered optimism demand is growing in the
world’s two largest consumers of the fuel. Crude for November
delivery climbed as much as 2.2 percent to $81.75 a barrel in
New York, the highest price since Aug. 9. It surged 6.7 percent
for the week, the most since February.  The Reuters-Jefferies  CRB Index  of raw materials rose 0.7
percent, gaining for a sixth straight week. That’s the longest
stretch since the six weeks ended Feb. 29, 2008. Raw materials
account for about half of Canada’s export revenue.  A report from China’s logistics federation and statistics
bureau showing the purchasing managers’ index rose to 53.8 last
month from 51.7 in August pushed commodities up and the U.S.
dollar down.  “China’s PMI has reassured those who were concerned over
the global growth outlook,”  Camilla Sutton , director of
currency strategy in Toronto at Bank of Nova Scotia’s Scotia
Capital unit, wrote yesterday via e-mail, “thereby helping to
push oil prices higher and by default the Canadian dollar has
benefited.”  U.S. Consumer Spending  U.S. consumer spending rose 0.4 percent in August for a
second month, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday,
versus a Bloomberg News survey forecast for a 0.3 percent gain.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of U.S.
consumer sentiment slipped to 68.2 in September, compared with a
decline to 67 forecast in a separate Bloomberg survey.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said Sept.
30 its business barometer climbed to 60.4 in September, beating
the highest estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
number of applicants for jobless insurance payments fell more
than forecast in the week ended Sept. 25, another report showed.  The loonie still was outperformed last week by 13 of its 16
most-traded counterparts, ahead of only the Mexican peso, the
greenback and the pound.  Bank Signal  “The major thing holding it back is the Bank of Canada
signaling that there will likely be a pause in October on the
rate front,” said  Blake Jespersen , a currency strategist at
Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital unit.  Bank Governor  Mark Carney  said economic growth has slowed
more than expected and “the unusual uncertainty surrounding the
outlook warrants caution.” Carney, who spoke on Sept. 30 in
Windsor, Ontario, may keep interest rates unchanged as long as
his U.S. counterparts contemplate additional monetary stimulus
to spur their economy.  Canadian policy makers, who meet next on Oct. 19, raised
the key interest rate three times since June, increasing it to 1
percent from a record low 0.25 percent. The U.S. Federal Reserve
has kept its  benchmark  at a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008. The Fed said on Sept. 21 it’s “prepared to
provide additional accommodation” to stimulate the economy.  “Carney’s comments have triggered some Canadian-dollar
weakness on the crosses,”  George Davis , chief technical analyst
at the Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit, wrote
via e-mail yesterday, referring to trades involving currencies
other than the greenback.  Canadian government bonds rose for the week, pushing the
yield on benchmark 10-year notes down 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.79 percent. It touched 2.71 percent, the
lowest since March 2009. The price of the 3.5 percent security
due in June 2020 dropped 62 cents to C$105.97.  Canadian employers  added 10,000 jobs in September, after
creating 35,800 the previous month, according to the median
estimate of 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey before
Statistics Canada reports the data on Oct. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  