-- China Tells Japan to Maintain Relations After Dispute Over Islands Erupts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-10-02T06:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/china-tells-japan-to-maintain-relations-after-dispute-over-islands-erupts.html
China called on Japan to make an
effort to maintain relations as a dispute over islands both
nations claim sent relations to their lowest in five years.  “I hope Japan will work with China to jointly maintain
relations between the two countries,” Ma said, adding China has
always attached importance to developing ties with Japan.  The uninhabited islets in the East China Sea, known as
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese, have been Chinese
territory since ancient times, Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  said late yesterday, according to the state-run Xinhua
news agency. Japan’s claim to the territory is “absurd, illegal
and invalid,” he said.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  yesterday reiterated that
the islands are Japanese territory historically and based on
international law. Sovereignty over the area would give the
holder rights to undersea gas and oil reserves.  Relations between Japan and China deteriorated after a
Chinese fishing boat collided with two Japanese Coast Guard
vessels. The release of the trawler’s captain after he was held
for 17 days failed to assuage the Chinese government.  China two days ago released three of four Japanese
employees of a construction firm, Fujita Corp., who were
arrested for allegedly videotaping military targets.  After the trawler collision, China cut off ministerial
talks and disrupted exports of rare earth metals such as cerium,
used in polishing glass for hard-disk drives and as a catalyst
to reduce car emissions.  China issued a travel advisory for Japan after Chinese
tourists on a bus were harassed on Sept. 30.  The diplomatic row is the most serious since 2005, when
thousands of Chinese protested Japanese textbooks, saying they
downplayed that nation’s wartime atrocities.  -- Alfred Cang  in Shanghai. Editors:  Paul Tighe , Jim McDonald  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Alfred Cang in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7015 or
 acang@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  