-- Wen Vows to Boost China Demand, Support Euro
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-10-03T17:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/china-to-stimulate-more-domestic-demand-to-stabilize-economy-wen-says.html
China will address “structural
problems” and stabilize its economy by increasing domestic
demand, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said.  Wen, in an interview with CNN, said he’d argued before the
global recession that China’s economic development “lacks
balance, coordination and sustainability.” The financial crisis
“reinforced my view on this point,” he said on the “Fareed
Zakaria GPS” program taped Sept. 23 in New York and broadcast
yesterday.  “We can rely on stimulating domestic demand to stabilize
and further grow the Chinese economy,” Wen, 64, said. The
premier also said he’s concerned China’s stability may be
threatened by inflation and corruption and that he remains
committed to pressing for changes in China’s political system.  China’s economy has expanded more than 90-fold in the past
three decades, fueled by exports to countries such as the U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and U.S. lawmakers have
urged the country’s leaders to look more to domestic markets for
growth. They have also pushed China to allow faster appreciation
of its currency, arguing that an undervalued yuan gives Chinese
manufacturers an unfair advantage in export markets.  The U.S. trade deficit with China widened to $145 billion
in the first seven months of this year, from $123 billion for
the same period in 2009.  Currency Conflict  Wen criticized some U.S. lawmakers for pressing China to
increase the value of its currency.  “Some people in the United States, in particular some in
the U.S. Congress, do not know fully about China,” Wen said.
“They are politicizing the problems in China-U.S. relations.”  On Sept. 29, the U.S. House passed legislation prodding
China to raise the value of the yuan. Under the bill, U.S.
companies would be allowed to petition for duties on imports
from China to compensate for the effect of an undervalued yuan.  The yuan gained 1.74 percent last month, the biggest
monthly advance since a dollar peg was ended in July 2005,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s goal is to have “balance and sustainable trade
with other countries,” Wen said. “China does not pursue a
trade surplus.”  China supports a stable euro and won’t reduce its holdings
of European bonds, underlining the strengthening ties with the
European Union, Wen told Greek lawmakers during a visit in
Athens yesterday. Wen said he hopes to improve the domestic
investment climate in China and that the EU eases restrictions
on high-tech exports and rejects protectionism.  Greece  Wen, who next travels to Belgium, Italy and Turkey, said
Oct. 2 that China plans to buy Greek bonds once Greece begins
tapping international markets for funding again. China will
support the country’s shipping industry, as Greece seeks
investment to emerge from a second year of recession, Wen said.  Wen told CNN that after China’s 4 trillion-yuan ($600
billion) economic stimulus program, controlling inflation is a
priority. Inflation “is something that I have been trying very
hard to manage appropriately and well,” Wen said. “Corruption
and inflation will have an adverse impact on the stability of
power in our country.”  Wen is trying to cool down the country’s property market as
house prices soar and become increasingly unaffordable for
China’s middle class. Last month, China’s government added to
curbs by tightening down-payment rules for first homes,
suspending third-home loans and pledging to quicken a trial of a
property tax.  Growth Pace  China’s plan to stimulate the economy with government
spending has been a success, ensuring “the continuance of
steady and relatively fast economic growth,” Wen said.  Economic growth moderated to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter from 11.9 percent in the previous three months. The pace
may slow to 8.7 percent in the fourth quarter, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Still, China’s  manufacturing  expanded at the fastest pace
in four months in September, adding to signs that economic
growth is stabilizing.  Wen said the $814 billion U.S. stimulus package and Obama’s
goal of increasing exports are helping the American economy.  “Although they came a little bit late, they still came in
time,” Wen said.  With its tradition of “scientific and technological talent
and managerial expertise,” the U.S. “will tide over the crisis
and difficulties,” Wen told CNN. “We must have confidence in
the prospects of the U.S. economy.”  U.S. Recovery  The U.S. recovery “is in the interest of the recovery and
stability of the world economy,” he said.  Wen also addressed political changes, which critics said
have been outpaced by the country’s economic growth.  “The people’s wishes for and needs for democracy and
freedom are irresistible” he said.  China has 400 million Internet users and 800 million mobile
phone subscribers, some of whom use the technology to criticize
the government, Wen said.  Google Inc. , the owner of the world’s most popular Internet
search engine, has continued to express concern about being
pressured to censor search results in China.  Earlier this year, after a series of attacks on Google
computers, the Mountain View, California-based company said it
would stop censoring search results and instead redirect
visitors to its unfiltered Hong Kong site.  ‘Continuous Progress’  “I hope that you will be able to gradually see the
continuous progress of China,” Wen said.  The premier is a former aide to the late Communist Party
General Secretary  Zhao Ziyang , who was ousted from his post in
the wake of 1989 protests on and around Beijing’s Tiananmen
Square. Wen was photographed with Zhao visiting protesting
students in the square that year.  In a speech in the southern city of Shenzhen in August, Wen
argued for more political overhaul to cement China’s economic
gains.  Wen and President  Hu Jintao  are set to step down from their
Communist Party posts in late 2012 and from their government
positions in March 2013. The party’s Central Committee will meet
later this month as a younger generation of leaders jostle for
the top jobs.  Wen said on CNN that he believes the future generation of
Chinese leaders will make the country even more prosperous.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@blooomberg.net ;
Mark Rohner at 
 mrohner@bloomberg.net  