-- Dollar Falls to 6-Month Low Versus Euro as Fed View Dims U.S. Asset Allure
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-02T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/dollar-falls-to-6-month-low-versus-euro-as-fed-view-dims-u-s-asset-allure.html
The dollar fell against all of its
most-traded counterparts as Federal Reserve officials made
statements encouraging speculation the central bank will
increase purchases of U.S. debt to keep interest rates low.  The greenback declined for the third consecutive week
against the euro to a six-month low as rhetoric from the Fed
damped demand for U.S. assets. Asian currencies and the
Australian and New Zealand dollars had five-day gains against
the U.S. dollar as investors searched for higher yields. The yen
strengthened 1.1 percent against the dollar as Japanese
officials said they are prepared to sell more of the nation’s
currency to prevent a return to a 15-year high.  “The dollar seems to be the ugliest girl at the dance,”
said  Lane Newman,  director of foreign exchange at ING Groep NV
in New York. “The main catalyst for dollar weakness would be
communication from the Federal Open Market Committee this week
that quantitative easing is on the table and the euro has gone
from the worst currency to own to the best on the back of
‘anything but the big dollar.’”  The dollar declined 2.2 percent to $1.3790 per euro, the
weakest level since March 17, from $1.3492 last week. The euro
was the strongest weekly performer against major currencies.  Yen Gains  The U.S. currency weakened to 83.27 yen, from 84.21 yen the
previous week. It touched 83.16 yen yesterday, the lowest level
since Japan intervened in foreign-exchange markets on Sept. 15.
The euro advanced 1 percent to 114.81 yen, from 113.62 yen.  The greenback fell against the euro for the fourth straight
day yesterday as 9 out of 45 economists revised up their fourth
quarter euro projections against the dollar, pushing the median
forecast for the pair to $1.30, from $1.29 the week before.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against six major counterparts,  extended 
its biggest monthly drop since June 2009. The Dollar Index
declined 5.4 percent in September, the biggest monthly  decline 
since May 2009 when it fell 6.2 percent.  “The common denominator of this renewed vigor in yield
appetite is the selloff in the dollar,” said  Michael Woolfolk ,
senior currency strategist in New York at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $20
trillion in assets under administration. “It is looking like
the U.S. policy makers are following a pattern of benign neglect
toward the U.S. dollar.”  Revisiting Sept. 15  The yen traded near the strongest levels against the dollar
since the Bank of Japan stepped in Sept. 15 to sell the currency
in an attempt to weaken its value to protect an export-led
economic recovery.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said yesterday he’s
prepared to resume selling the country’s currency to prevent it
from strengthening and called on the nation’s central bank to do
more to bolster an economy threatened by deflation.  A report showed Japan last month spent $25 billion
intervening in the foreign exchange market to combat the yen’s
climb to a 15-year high against the dollar at 82.88.  Speeches by Fed officials continued to fuel speculation
about more assets purchases by the central bank.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans , speaking at a
conference in Rome Oct. 1, said further monetary accommodation
may be “desirable” to help boost the flagging U.S. recovery.  Fed Talks  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said Sept. 28 in text
of a speech in Sewanee, Tennessee, that the debate about another
round of asset purchases will “intensify” soon.  Next week, U.S. nonfarm payrolls are forecast to include a
77,000 gain in private payrolls in September, after a 67,000
increase in August. The Labor Department report is scheduled
Oct. 8.  Asian currencies completed a fifth weekly advance, the
longest winning streak since March, as global funds pumped more
money into Asian assets to profit from the world’s fastest
economic growth.  South Korea’s won led gains with a 2.2 percent weekly jump
to 1,130.45 per dollar. The won touched a four-month high of
1,130.03 yesterday on speculation the central bank will raise
interest rates in October.  Index Reading  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index  climbed to a two-
year high after the Asian Development Bank this week raised its
2010 growth forecast for Asia excluding Japan to 8.2 percent,
from an April estimate of 7.5 percent.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars each rose 1.4 this
week against the greenback as investors looked for higher
interest rates. Benchmark rates are 4.5 percent in Australia and
3 percent in New Zealand. The Fed has kept its benchmark at a
range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currencies Indices show
the dollar has declined 2.4 percent this year against a basket
of currencies from 10 developed-world nations, while the yen is
up 10.4 percent and the euro is down 6.4 percent.  The Swiss franc gained 1 percent against the greenback
finishing the week at 0.0938 per dollar. The currency touched a
record high of 0.9709 Sept. 30 as investors sought to avoid the
volatility of the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  