-- Fed Officials Debate Easing Tools as Dudley Says Further Steps Warranted
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2010-10-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/fed-debates-easing-tools-as-dudley-says-further-steps-warranted.html
Federal Reserve policy makers are now
debating how to deploy tools for more unconventional easing as
two top officials indicated action may be needed to lower
 unemployment  persisting near 10 percent.  “Further action is likely to be warranted unless the
economic outlook evolves in a way that makes me more confident
that we will see better outcomes for both employment and
inflation before too long,” New York Fed president  William Dudley  said yesterday.  His comments, following Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
statement on Sept. 30 that the Fed has a duty to aid the
economy, indicate that the outlook has weakened enough for
action, said former Fed Governor  Laurence Meyer . Dudley, vice
chairman of the Fed’s policy-setting Open Market Committee, said
additional securities purchases can have a “significant”
effect on the economy.  “The threshold is met,” said Meyer, vice chairman of
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in Washington. The details of how the
Fed eases further are “the most important question that’s on my
mind,” he said. “It’s going to be an amount that is high
enough to say, they really mean it now.”  The FOMC meets on Nov. 2-3, giving members time to digest
reports on September employment, retail sales and inflation.  “They have decided to do another round of quantitative
easing,” said  Dino Kos , managing director at Portales Partners
LLC in New York and former executive vice president in charge of
markets at the New York Fed. “The only thing left to fight over
is how they do it.”  Dollar Weakens  The dollar fell to the lowest level since March versus the
euro and dropped against the yen after Dudley’s comments. The
Treasury two-year yield was 0.41 percent after falling to a
record-low of 0.4066 percent.  Government reports yesterday showed U.S. manufacturing
expanded at a slower pace, while consumer spending increased,
underlining the Fed’s forecast for a “modest” pace of economic
growth.  Dudley said that $500 billion of purchases, for example,
would add as much stimulus as reducing the Fed’s  benchmark rate 
0.5 percentage point to 0.75 percentage point, depending on how
long investors expect the Fed to hold the assets. Officials
can’t lower the rate further because it’s already close to zero.  The speech is “a strong indication that the next statement
is going to announce purchases,” said  Jan Hatzius , who
succeeded Dudley as chief U.S. economist at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. In a research note, Goldman Sachs said the amount of
announced purchases is likely to be $500 billion.  26-Year High  Dudley’s comments indicate Fed officials aren’t willing to
tolerate a pace of recovery that’s showing few signs of lowering
the unemployment rate from close to a 26-year high or lifting
the inflation rate.  The economy expanded at a 1.7 percent annual pace in the
second quarter, down from 3.7 percent in the previous three
months. The Fed’s preferred inflation benchmark rose 1.4 percent
for the 12 months ending August, below the FOMC’s preferred
range of 1.7 percent to 2 percent.  “Both the current levels of unemployment and inflation and
the timeframe over which they are likely to return to levels
consistent with our mandate are unacceptable,” Dudley said
yesterday.  Those remarks echoed Bernanke’s comments to economists at
Princeton University Sept. 24. “A concerted policy effort has
so far not produced an economic recovery of sufficient vigor to
significantly reduce the high level of unemployment,” he said.  The comments mark a shift from Bernanke’s Aug. 27 statement
that more action would be called for if “the outlook were to
deteriorate significantly.”  Bullard’s Influence  Meyer said St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  may be
influencing colleagues with his call for a quantitative rule to
determine the suitable amount of asset purchases and to adjust
the balance sheet based on the FOMC’s judgments about progress
on growth and inflation. Bullard said in August he would favor
gradual adjustments to the purchase program rather than a
“shock and awe” policy.  Another option is for the Fed to announce an explicit
inflation goal and then, if price increases are too slow,
potentially aim to overshoot the goal in future years, Dudley
said. One risk is that investors may “mistakenly” conclude
that the Fed was “tinkering with its long-run inflation
objective,” undermining the change in policy.  Less than seven months ago, Bernanke was testifying before
the House Financial Services Committee on the central bank’s
exit strategy. Since then, financial turmoil in Europe and a
weak hand-off from inventory re-stocking to consumer spending in
the U.S. have produced two quarters of growth that have kept the
unemployment rate at 9.5 percent or higher.  Aircraft Maker   Textron Inc. , based in Providence, Rhode Island, last month
said it plans to cut 700 jobs at its Cessna plane division, as
the aircraft maker reduces production further because demand
hasn’t picked up after the recession. The cuts represent about
8.3 percent of the unit’s workforce.  U.S. central bankers began to focus on their mandate to
achieve stable prices and full employment in their September
statement as it became apparent that the risk of another year of
moderate growth combined with waning fiscal policy could result
in more under-shooting on jobs and prices.  Sluggish growth leaves the economy more vulnerable to a
recession and in the event of a shock, deflation risks could
increase. Further declines in inflation would constitute an
increase in interest rates in the absence of further Fed action.  Some policy makers this week expressed skepticism about the
need for further easing.  Business ‘Angst’  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said in a speech
yesterday that the benefits of action may not outweigh the costs
unless “fiscal and regulatory authorities are able to dispel
the angst that businesses are reporting.”  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said Sept. 29
that he doesn’t see how additional asset purchases will help
employment in the near term, and  Narayana Kocherlakota  of the
Minneapolis Fed said it would probably have a “more muted
effect” than purchases that ended in March.  Other officials who indicated this week that they favor
further easing include Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , who
said Sept. 29 the Fed should respond “vigorously, creatively,
thoughtfully and persistently” to a slow recovery, and Chicago
Fed President  Charles Evans , who said yesterday more action may
be “desirable.”  New Members  The FOMC will have two additional voters at the November
meeting who are likely to buttress any decision to ease policy,
 Vincent Reinhart , former Fed monetary-affairs director, said
this week. The Senate on Sept. 29 confirmed San Francisco Fed
President  Janet Yellen  for vice chairman and  Sarah Bloom Raskin 
for a governor position.  Since Bernanke’s Aug. 27 speech at Jackson Hole, Wyoming,
yields on the 10-year Treasury note have fallen 13 basis points
to 2.51 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock  index  is up
7.7 percent.  “Investors are buying into the strategy,” said Kos, who
noted that prospects for further quantitative easing have
depreciated the dollar without a rise in Treasury yields that
foreign investors typically demand to compensate for currency
risk. “You worry that at some point they don’t. A loss of
credibility in central banking is really difficult to recover
from.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  