-- France Denies Report of Secret Talks With China on Currency Coordination
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2010-10-02T17:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/france-denies-report-of-secret-talks-with-china-on-currency-coordination.html
France has not held secret talks on
currency coordination with China, a French government official
familiar with the matter said, denying a report in today’s
Financial Times.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy  will become chairman of the Group
of 20 forum in November and is preparing for that role now, said
the person, who declined to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to comment publicly.  Sarkozy in August reiterated a call to overhaul the global
monetary system, saying discussions on currencies should be open
to countries beyond the Group of Seven leading industrial
nations, including China, and urging enhanced international
coordination and global governance.  The French president cited the possibility of expanding
access to the International Monetary Fund’s special drawing
rights, the institution’s unit of account based on a basket of
currencies, to “reinforce the stability” of the monetary
system.  Since G-20 leaders began holding summits in November 2008,
they have pledged not to raise or impose trade barriers, seeking
to avoid the type of protectionist measures that crippled the
global economy in the 1930s.  The G-20 pledged in April 2009 in London to “refrain from
competitive devaluation” of their currencies, and the leaders
said at their last gathering in Toronto in June that “market-
oriented exchange rates that reflect underlying economic
fundamentals contribute to global economic stability.”  Yuan  China has incurred international criticism for limiting
gains in its exchange rate. The yuan has risen about 2 percent
versus the dollar since the People’s Bank of China in June
pledged greater flexibility in the currency after pegging it
around 6.83 for two years.  The G-20 includes the world’s biggest developed and
emerging-market nations, from China, Brazil, Russia and India to
the U.S., Japan, Germany, France and the U.K. Its finance
ministers meet in Korea on Oct. 21-23 ahead of the summit of
leaders in Seoul on Nov. 11-12. The topic of currencies will
also likely be discussed when finance chiefs gather in
Washington in the coming week for the annual meetings of the IMF
and World Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francois de Beaupuy  in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 