-- Gillard Visits Australian Troops Serving in Afghanistan, Meets With Karzai
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-10-02T23:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/gillard-visits-australian-troops-serving-in-afghanistan-meets-with-karzai.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  visited troops in Afghanistan and met with President
 Hamid Karzai  on her first overseas trip as the nation’s leader.  Gillard, 49, yesterday also met with General  David Petraeus ,
commander of the NATO-led International Security Assistance
Force in Afghanistan, and discussed plans for a transition to an
Afghan-led security responsibility “over the coming years,”
according to an e-mailed statement from her office today.  The prime minister has vowed to keep the 1,500 Australian
soldiers in the country to help fight Taliban militants trying
to overthrow Karzai’s government. Twenty-one Australian soldiers
have been killed in Afghanistan since 2002.  Gillard’s Labor Party held onto power after losing its
majority in Australia’s Aug. 21 general election after she won
the support of three independent lawmakers and a member of the
Greens Party. The Greens want to bring the Australian troops
home while the opposition Liberal-National coalition supports
Australia’s troop commitment in Afghanistan.  Gillard is travelling to Europe to attend the Asia-Europe
Meeting being held in Brussels, which brings together 16 Asian
nations, including Japan and China, and 27 European states,
including Germany and Italy.  She will have further talks on Afghanistan when she meets
the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization ’s Secretary-General
 Anders Fogh Rasmussen  on Oct. 4, according to the statement.  Gillard will also stop in Zurich to meet with FIFA
President  Sepp Blatter  to discuss Australia’s bid for the 2018
and 2022 Soccer World Cup, her office said.  Treasurer and Deputy Prime Minister  Wayne Swan  is acting as
leader, chairing a Cabinet meeting Oct. 5 as the Reserve Bank of
Australia releases its monetary policy decision at 2:30 p.m. on
the same day. Gillard is due to return late on Oct. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  