-- Obama Says Republicans Want to End Clean Energy Incentives, Risking Jobs
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2010-10-02T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/obama-says-republicans-want-to-end-clean-energy-incentives-risking-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Republicans want to end federal incentives for clean energy
development that are helping to reduce the U.S.’s dependence on
foreign oil.  “The Republican leadership is promising to scrap all the
incentives for clean energy projects, including those currently
under way, even with all the jobs and potential that they
hold,” the president said in his weekly address on the radio
and the Internet. “This doesn’t make sense for our economy.”  Obama highlighted a solar-power project in California’s
Mojave Desert by closely held BrightSource Energy Inc., of
Oakland, California. Helped by government incentives, Obama
said, the facility will provide 1,000 jobs during construction
and produce enough energy to power as many as 140,000 homes.  Obama has stepped up his attacks on Republican policies
ahead of the Nov. 2 congressional elections, in which Democratic
majorities in both chambers are on the line.  “That’s what’s at stake in this debate,” he said.  Obama said the nation must continue to make investments in
alternative energy technologies to ensure that “hundreds of
thousands” of new jobs are created in the U.S., from factory
workers to engineers to construction crews.  “These are jobs building the future,” he said.  Republican Address  In the Republicans address, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , of Kentucky, criticized Democrats for failing to take
action to extend expiring tax cuts before Congress left
Washington for the election campaigns.  Lower tax rates passed during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration lapse at the end of this year, and lawmakers are
at odds over whether to extend the cuts across-the-board or only
for incomes below $200,000 for individuals and $250,000 for
couples.  “At the stroke of midnight on Dec. 31, every American who
pays income taxes is set to get a tax hike that Democrats have
had two years to prevent,” McConnell said. “The fact is, the
best way to help individuals and  small businesses  and the
economy is to give them all the certainty that their taxes won’t
be going up at the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Johnston  in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  