-- Toyota, Hyundai Buoy Asian Brands’ Post-‘Clunkers’ Sales Gains
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2010-10-02T00:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/toyota-hyundai-buoy-asian-car-brands-post-clunkers-sales-gains-in-u-s-.html
Toyota Motor Corp.  posted its largest
U.S. sales increase in five months and  Hyundai Motor Co.  led
gains for Asia-based brands as September auto demand grew at the
fastest rate since 2009’s “cash for clunkers” program.  Toyota, the world’s biggest automaker, reported a 17
percent increase, while Hyundai jumped 48 percent. Sales for
 Honda Motor Co. , Japan’s second-largest carmaker, climbed 26
percent and  Nissan Motor Co.  increased 34 percent. Japanese and
Korean brands raised sales a combined 27 percent, trailing a 33
percent gain for U.S. competitors and industrywide growth of
28.5 percent.  “Sales in fact were so strong during Labor Day, it felt
like 2006 again,”  Bob Carter , group vice president of Toyota’s
U.S. sales, said yesterday on a conference call.  Monthly deliveries ran at an annual rate of 11.8 million,
according to researcher Autodata Corp., based in Woodcliff Lake,
New Jersey. September’s stronger pace, up from 9.4 million a
year earlier, is a sign the car market and broader economy may
have bottomed out, said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry
trends for Santa Monica, California-based TrueCar.com.  “This is another step in a healthy but rather slow
recovery,” Toprak said in an interview. “There were no outside
forces at play, like government programs or crazy incentives,
just the marketplace trying to recover on its own.”  Market Share  U.S. market share for Asian brands was 46.1 percent last
month, down from 46.5 percent a year earlier, according to
Autodata. U.S.-based competitors raised their share to 45.2
percent, led by  Ford Motor Co. ’s 46 percent increase and
Chrysler LLC’s 61 percent. General Motors Co.’s sales rose 11
percent.  Industrywide deliveries in September were expected to reach
an 11.7 million rate, the average of nine analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. In August 2009, the pace was 14.2
million, aided by the federal subsidy for fuel-efficient models.  Toyota sold 147,162 Toyota, Lexus and Scion vehicles, up
from 126,015 a year ago. The Toyota City, Japan-based company’s
increase in September was its biggest since April.  Gains came from  higher sales  of RAV4 and Highlander sport-
utility vehicles, Sienna minivans, Prius hybrids and Tacoma
pickup trucks, the company said.  Tacoma Truck  While Toyota is “really having difficulty” in full-size
trucks with its Tundra pickup, the smaller Tacoma model will
benefit since Ford is pulling its Ranger model out of the U.S.
compact pickup segment, Toprak said.  “Tacoma now has a distinct advantage,” he said. “This is
a brand that Toyota really needs to invest more in for future
growth.”  Tacoma holds about 45 percent of the market for small
pickups in the U.S., and Toyota aims to boost output of the
model after shifting production to its San Antonio plant in
July, Carter said.  Toyota’s sales gains weren’t enough to increase its market
share for the month since the overall industry grew at a faster
rate. The company’s share was 15.3 percent, down from 16.9
percent a year ago, according to Autodata.  Toyota’s  American depositary receipts , equal to two
ordinary shares, rose 22 cents to $71.80 yesterday in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. They’ve fallen 15 percent this
year.  Honda, Nissan  Honda, based in Tokyo, said it sold 97,361 Honda and Acura
autos last month, compared with 77,229 a year ago. The company
benefited from higher sales of CR-V and Pilot SUVs, Civic small
cars and the new CR-Z hybrid coupe.  Still, “Honda posted their third-lowest sales figures this
year, and we don’t expect much improvement until the new Odyssey
and Civic models arrive at showrooms,” said Ivan Drury, an
analyst with  Edmunds.com  in Santa Monica. “The niche CR-Z
picked up a bit, but with expectations of selling only 20,000
units annually, this can’t move the needle much.”  Honda’s market share was 10.2 percent, down from 10.4
percent a year ago, Autodata said.  Honda’s ADRs rose 40 cents, or 1.1 percent, to $35.99
yesterday. They’re up 6.2 percent this year.  Nissan, Japan’s third-largest automaker, sold 74,205 Nissan
and Infiniti vehicles last month, up from 55,393 a year ago,  Al Castignetti , vice president of U.S. sales, said in an interview.
Car sales expanded 36 percent, led by a 65 percent jump for
Altima sedans, he said.  “This year has been a bit a bit of a roller-coaster
ride,” Castignetti said. Sales should keep improving for the
rest of 2010, particularly as light-truck demand remains strong,
he said.  ‘Easy Month’  Given the comparison with September 2009, when sales
plunged following the end of U.S. “cash for clunkers” rebates,
“this was an easy month and the reverse of August,” he said.  Market share for Yokohama-based Nissan rose 0.3 percentage
point to 7.7 percent.  Hyundai, South Korea’s largest automaker, said it  boosted
sales  to 46,556 units in September, a record for the month. The
Seoul-based company cited increased deliveries of Sonata sedans,
Tucson SUVs and Genesis luxury cars.  Retail sales to individual drivers, excluding those to
rental companies and business fleets, surged 73 percent,
Hyundai’s U.S. unit said.  “Sonata continues to climb the ranks within the midsize
car category, coming in at third place behind Camry and
Accord,” Edmunds.com’s Drury said. “Gains in this highly
visible category of midsize cars speak volumes about consumer
perception of the brand and allow future Hyundai releases to
piggyback on the success of the Sonata.”  Kia Motors Corp. , Hyundai’s Seoul-based affiliate, sold
30,071 autos, up 39 percent from a year earlier. Sales for
Subaru, the auto brand of Toyota-affiliated  Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. , jumped 47 percent, and Hiroshima, Japan-based
Mazda Motor Corp. said its volume rose 30 percent.  Among smaller Asia-based brands, Mitsubishi Motors Corp.’s
sales grew 5 percent and Suzuki Motor Corp. fell 12 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  