-- Europe Rallies Against U.S. Heading into Final Day of Golf in Ryder Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-10-02T23:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/rainy-ryder-cup-golf-opening-round-reumes-wales-after-u-s-team-comeback.html
A late surge has given the European
team momentum going into the final day of play against the U.S.
at golf’s Ryder Cup.  The Europeans, trailing the Americans 6-4, were ahead in
all six matches in progress when play was halted by darkness
last night in Newport, Wales. The golfers will return at 7:45
a.m. today to finish the third session before 12 scheduled
singles matches.  “It was a very important two hours of play and we came
through with flying colors,” Europe captain Colin Montgomerie
told reporters yesterday. “We’ve got to keep going and keep
this momentum going.”  Today’s forecast calls for clouds with periods of rain
likely,  and a high temperature of 13 degrees Fahrenheit (55
Celsius), according to mobileweather.com.  A seven-hour rain delay two days ago has pushed the
schedule back. The opening fourball matches had to be completed
yesterday morning and were followed by six foursome matches. The
U.S. needs 14 points to keep the trophy it won in 2008, while
the hosts need 14 ½ to extend the American’s overseas losing
streak.  Luke Donald  and  Lee Westwood  are four holes up on  Tiger Woods  and  Steve Stricker  after nine holes and  Graeme McDowell 
and  Rory McIlroy  have a three-hole lead on  Zach Johnson  and
 Hunter Mahan  after seven holes in the foursome, or alternate
shot, matches.  Ongoing Matches  In the fourballs, where golfers play their own balls with
the lowest score winning the hole,  Padraig Harrington  and  Ross Fisher  lead  Jim Furyk  and  Dustin Johnson  by one hole after eight
holes, and  Peter Hanson  and  Miguel Angel Jimenez  are two holes
ahead of  Bubba Watson  and  Jeff Overton  after six.  Stewart Cink  and  Matt Kuchar  trail Edoardo and Francesco
Molinari by one hole after five and  Phil Mickelson  and  Rickie Fowler  are two down to  Ian Poulter  and  Martin Kaymer  through
four.  “We’re not in a position we want to be in,” U.S. captain
 Corey Pavin  said yesterday. “We have to go out tomorrow and
turn it around.”  Teams get one points for winning a match and a half-point
for a tie.  Earlier yesterday, Woods and Stricker routed Jimenez and
Hanson. The Americans won three and tied one of the six foursome
matches to extend their lead.  Cink’s 17th-hole birdie gave victory to he and Kuchar,
while  Johnson  and  Mahan  rallied to win their match. Fowler
overcame an early blunder as he and Furyk tied with Westwood and
Kaymer.  The teams of Harrington and Fisher, along with Poulter and
Donald, were victorious for Europe.  Perfect Partnership  Woods and Stricker won by four holes with three to play, or
4 and 3, to continue their perfect partnership. The two are now
6-0 after winning all four matches at last year’s Presidents
Cup, when the U.S. takes on an international squad.  “We are comfortable with one another and I think that’s
the biggest thing,” Stricker said. “We gel well together and
hopefully we can do it some more.”  Cink and Kuchar beat  McDowell  and  McIlroy  by one hole. Cink
sank a 20-foot birdie putt at 17 for the lead, and McIlroy
followed by missing a 5-footer that would have tied the hole.  Johnson and Mahan birdied the final two holes to beat the
Molinari brothers, while Fowler earned a tie in his match by
making a birdie at 18.  Already down a hole, Fowler cost his team the fourth after
being given a free drop following Furyk’s pulled tee shot.
Fowler took out another ball, violating the rule that the same
ball must be played.  Wrong Ball  “I basically dropped the wrong ball,” he said. “It was
the same ball that I had in my pocket and was laying in the mud.
It was nice to have that putt for a halve.”  Harrington and Fisher easily beat Mickelson and Dustin
Johnson 3 and 2, Donald and Poulter scored a 2 and 1 win over
Watson and Overton.  In the opening fourballs, Woods and Stricker, along with
Watson and Overton, won for the U.S. Westwood and Kaymer beat
Mickelson and Johnson, while McIlroy and McDowell tied Cink and
Kuchar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in Newport, Wales, at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 