-- RBA May Increase Rates by 25 Basis Points by End-2010, HSBC's Bloxham Says
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-10-03T03:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/rba-may-increase-rates-by-25-basis-points-by-end-2010-hsbc-s-bloxham-says.html
Australia’s central bank will likely
lift interest rates by 25 basis points by the end of the year as
a mining boom continues to stoke the nation’s economy, according
to  HSBC  Holdings Plc.  “Interest rates need to rise in this country because the
outlook for the economy is very strong and we’re starting this
next upswing with inflation at a relatively elevated level,”
 Paul Bloxham , named HSBC Australia chief economist last month,
said today on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Inside
Business” program. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The outlook for the resources industry is “very strong,”
said Bloxham, who spent 12 years at the Reserve Bank of
Australia and predicts rates will climb by 1.25 percentage
points by the end of next year. Manufacturing in China,
Australia’s largest trading partner and New Zealand’s second-
biggest export market, expanded at the fastest pace in four
months in September.  “At a time when global conditions are shaky, and the U.S.
and Europe are grappling with near double-digit unemployment,
our economy is going from strength to strength,” Australian
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed note today. The
government is “on track to get the budget back to surplus in
2012-13, well ahead of any major advanced economy,” he said.  There is a 64 percent chance Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  will raise the 4.5 percent target lending rate,
according to an index compiled by Credit Suisse Group AG.  Commodity Index  The Reserve Bank “all but announced the rate rise” on
Oct. 1 after it posted its index of commodity prices that showed
gains in iron ore, power-station and steelmaking coal,  Terry McCrann , economic columnist for the Australian newspaper, wrote
in a column published yesterday. McCrann, who a year ago
correctly predicted the RBA’s decision to raise the key rate,
said the index is higher than the peak it reached in 2008, when
the cash rate was at 7.25 percent.  The Australian dollar rallied for a seventh straight week
in the longest winning streak since May 2009 as traders
increased bets that the Reserve Bank will boost borrowing costs
when it meets Oct. 5. The currency appreciated 0.6 percent to
97.25 U.S. cents in New York on Oct. 1, and touched 97.51, the
highest since July 2008.  China’s government said last week its purchasing managers’
index rose to 53.8 in September from 51.7 in the previous month.
Readings above 50 show growth.  Deputy Prime Minister Swan is acting as leader while  Julia Gillard  is on her first overseas trip and will chair a Cabinet
meeting on Oct. 5 as the Reserve Bank releases its monetary
policy decision at 2:30 p.m. on the same day. Gillard is
scheduled to return to Australia late on Oct. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  