-- Schwarzenegger, California Lawmakers Reach Agreement to End Budget Impasse
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2010-10-02T04:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/schwarzenegger-california-lawmakers-reach-agreement-to-end-budget-impasse.html
California  Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  and top lawmakers came up with a compromise to
close a $19.1 billion deficit and give the state a budget,
ending a record three-month impasse with a vote expected next
week on the spending plan.  The accord doesn’t raise taxes, as sought by Democrats, nor
does it dismantle the state’s welfare system, proposed by
Republicans, the leaders said yesterday. Schwarzenegger and the
Democratic and Republican heads of the  Senate  and the  Assembly ,
known as the Big Five, came to the agreement after a final five-
hour negotiating session in the governor’s Sacramento office.  “We have a comprehensive agreement,” said Senate
President Pro Tem  Darrell Steinberg , a Democrat from Sacramento.
Lawmakers said more information about the substance of the
agreement would be released at an Oct. 6 public hearing.  Passage of the plan would clear the way for Treasurer  Bill Lockyer  to borrow about $10 billion on Wall Street by issuing
short-term notes needed to pay bills until tax revenue comes in
later in the year. The impasse led Controller  John Chiang  to
warn about paying bills with IOUs as soon as this month.
California is the only U.S. state without an enacted budget.  “No one is pleased with the decisions that we had to make,
but the reforms that will come out of this will make it
worthwhile,” said  Aaron McLear , a spokesman for Schwarzenegger.
The Republican has said he won’t sign any final budget unless
lawmakers agree to roll back state pension benefits to 1999
levels and to seek voter approval of a permanent spending cap
and the creation of a contingency reserve, or rainy-day  fund .  No Celebration  “It’s give and take, that’s what it is -- nobody is
celebrating here,” Steinberg said of yesterday’s agreement.
“We have to look at this in the context of a $19 billion
deficit on top of the deficits of the last several years.”  Lawmakers and the governor announced Sept. 24 that they had
breached a stalemate that had persisted since the state’s fiscal
year began July 1, the longest California has ever gone without
a spending plan.  Legislative aides briefed on the details said last week’s
framework cuts spending by around $8 billion, less than the $12
billion the governor had proposed, and holds education spending
about the same as last year’s level, around $49 billion. The
framework also would suspend for two years a tax break that let
companies deduct part of net operating losses in a previous year
from current-year taxes, said the two people briefed on it.  Conflicting Strategies  Schwarzenegger and Republicans wanted to dismantle the
state’s main  welfare  program and slash $12.4 billion of
spending. Democrats proposed $5.9 billion in higher taxes and
fees combined with $8 billion of spending cuts.  Calling the accord “a no-tax budget that protects
California  jobs ,” Assembly Minority Leader  Martin Garrick , a
Republican from Carlsbad, said a vote on the plan is expected on
Oct. 7.  “Obviously if we are in agreement, then we think it is a
budget that will pass,” said Senate Minority Leader  Dennis Hollingsworth , a Republican from Murrieta, north of San Diego.  Schwarzenegger, who is approaching the end of his term, and
Democrats, who hold a majority in both legislative chambers,
disagreed on how much spending to cut and whether to raise taxes
to fill the gap. California requires a two-thirds vote in both
the Assembly and Senate to pass budgets, and neither party holds
enough seats to meet that threshold. That forced lawmakers to
agree on a compromise plan before bringing it to a vote.  Short-Term Borrowing  Lockyer, the state treasurer, said Sept. 27 that he was
lining up a short-term loan of more than $5 billion from a group
of Wall Street banks to tide the state over with enough cash
once a budget is enacted. He said the borrowing would be repaid
with the short-term notes.  The state’s constitution says lawmakers must send a budget
to the governor by June 15, about two weeks before the start of
the new fiscal year. The Legislature has met that deadline five
times in the last 30 years. The fiscal 2008 budget was sent to
Schwarzenegger on Sept. 16 and signed into law on Sept. 23, the
latest the state went without a spending plan until this year.  California, with the world’s eighth-largest  economy , issued
$2.6 billion of IOUs last year after a similar budget stalemate.
That was only the second time since the Great Depression that
the state had to use warrants to cover costs and conserve cash.  In January, Standard & Poor’s cut California’s credit grade
to A-, its lowest among U.S. states, citing fiscal imbalances
and recurring cash-flow problems. S&P has said it may reduce the
state’s rating again if the budget crisis worsens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Marois  in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  