-- Sinopec Group Pays `Very High' Premium for Brazil Oil Reserves
-- B y   J o h n   D u c e
-- 2010-10-04T08:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/sinopec-invests-7-1-billion-in-repsol-brazil-unit-to-tap-offshore-fields.html
China Petrochemical Corp.  is paying a
76 percent premium to take a stake in Repsol YPF SA’s Brazilian
unit as the world’s biggest energy user switches its hunt for
oil reserves to Latin America from Africa.  Sinopec Group, as China’s second-largest energy company is
known, agreed Oct. 1 to pay $7.1 billion for a 40 percent stake
in Madrid-based Repsol’s unit, which has reserves in the same
area as the biggest oil discovery in the Americas this century.
That amounts to $15 a barrel compared with the $8.50 Petroleo
Brasileiro SA paid last month for assets in Brazil, said  Neil Beveridge , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “This shows the importance that China places on securing
oil resources overseas,” Beveridge said by telephone from Hong
Kong. “This is a key emerging deepwater basin, and there are a
lot of developments taking place. Sinopec has a good position
established, but the price it has paid is very high.”  Chinese companies spent a record $32 billion last year
buying energy and resources assets abroad. Sinopec Group’s
investment is the country’s second-largest overseas acquisition
and follows the company’s purchase of  Addax Petroleum Corp.  for
C$8.3 billion ($8 billion) last year to gain reserves in Iraq’s
Kurdistan and West Africa.  Cnooc Ltd.  and state-controlled
Sinochem Group have paid about $3.1 billion each for stakes in
oil producers in Argentina and Brazil.  ‘Focus Has Switched’  “South America seems to be a key area of focus at the
moment,” said Beveridge. “The focus has switched from Africa,
and it’s all part of China’s desire for energy security and the
exceptional growth in demand for oil.”  China consumed 8.6 million barrels of oil a day last year
compared with 4.47 million in 1999, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy. The International Energy
Agency estimates demand may reach 11.63 million a day by 2015.  Sinopec Group’s listed arm,  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. , rose 1.2 percent to close at HK$6.96 today. The market
was shut on Oct. 1 because of a public holiday. Repsol gained
0.2 percent in Madrid, after  jumping  5 percent on Oct. 1 to
close at a two-year high of 19.83 euros.  Shares of other energy companies with stakes in Brazilian
offshore projects advanced Oct. 1 after Sinopec Group’s
investment was announced.  Galp Energia SGPS SA  rose as much as
7.8 percent in Lisbon, while  BG Group Plc , the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and natural gas producer, climbed as much as 5.8
percent in London.  ‘Hefty Valuation’  “This puts a hefty valuation on reserves in Brazil,” said
 Peter Hitchens , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in London.
“It could read through into BG’s assets.”  Brazil’s state oil company Petroleo Brasileiro, known as
Petrobras, issued about $42.5 billion of stock to the government
last month in exchange for the rights to develop 5 billion
barrels of oil reserves. Beveridge estimates Repsol’s assets in
Brazil hold about 1.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent.  Repsol had considered a plan to sell about 40 percent of
the Brazilian business through an initial public offering. The
company now won’t be selling shares in the unit to the public,
Madrid-based spokesman  Kristian Rix  said Oct. 1.  “For us, Brazil was way too large,” Repsol’s Chief
Operating Officer  Miguel Martinez  said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television. “Obtaining a partner was a move that was
necessary.” Repsol and Sinopec Group may work together in other
areas in the future, he said.  Brazilian Reserves  Spain’s biggest oil company has stakes in Brazil’s Santos
and Espirito Santo basins and plans to invest as much as $14
billion there through 2019, in fields that may hold as much as 3
billion barrels.  Since 2007, Repsol and partners  BG Group  and Petrobras have
found hydrocarbons in the offshore Carioca, Guara and Iguacu
fields in the Santos Basin’s BM-S-9 block. They are ultra-deep
deposits beneath a salt layer under the seabed.  Petrobras estimated in November 2007 that the Santos
Basin’s pre-salt Tupi field may contain as many as 8 billion
barrels of oil, the largest find in the Americas since Mexico’s
Cantarell field in 1976. Repsol doesn’t own a stake in Tupi.  Repsol wants to invest in exploration in  Brazil ’s offshore
Santos Basin and elsewhere to increase reserves and output,
while trying to reduce exposure to mature fields in neighboring
 Argentina . The company forecasts annual production growth of as
much as 4 percent through 2014 as projects in Brazil and Peru
come on stream. Repsol plans to invest a total of 28.5 billion
euros in the period.  Crude oil futures in New York have gained 16 percent in a
year to $81.58 a barrel. Prices reached a record $147.27 a
barrel in July 2008.  “If oil does go over $100 a barrel, then this deal may
look very attractive,” said Beveridge of Sanford C. Bernstein.
“It comes down to it either seeing more exploration potential
here, or Sinopec’s betting on higher oil prices in the future to
justify the price it is paying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Duce  in Hong Kong at 
 Jduce1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 