-- U.S. Stocks Fall on European Debt Concerns to Snap Four-Week S&P 500 Rally
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/u-s-stocks-fall-on-european-debt-concern-to-snap-four-week-s-p-500-rally.html
U.S. stocks slipped, halting the
longest streak of weekly gains since April, as lingering concern
that Europe’s government debt crisis may threaten the economic
recovery trimmed the market’s biggest September rally in 71
years.  M&T Bank Corp . dropped 10 percent this week to lead
financial companies lower after reports that merger talks with
 Banco Santander SA  of Spain had broken down, while  Monsanto Co .
tumbled 13 percent on concern its SmartStax corn seeds aren’t
performing as well as predicted. A rally in energy shares
limited the market’s drop as oil capped its biggest weekly
advance since February and EQT Corp. surged after reporting two
Pennsylvania natural-gas wells produced “exceptional” results.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent to
1,146.24 over the past five days, halting four straight weeks of
gains. The benchmark for U.S. stocks rallied 8.8 percent in
September to erase its 2010 loss. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  dropped 30.58 points for the week, or 0.3 percent, to
10,829.68.  “It’s a slow growth, kind of anemic recovery,” said Russ
Koesterich, the San Francisco-based head of investment strategy
for scientific active equities at  BlackRock Inc ., which oversees
$3.36 trillion as the world’s largest asset manager. “It’s not
clear that anything is going to change that in the near term.”  The surge in equities since the end of August defied what
is historically the worst month for stocks, with the S&P 500
falling 0.7 percent on average in Septembers since 1950,
according to the Stock Trader’s Almanac. The monthly rally
brought the year-to-date return to 2.8 percent, though the gauge
is still 5.8 percent below its 2010 high on April 23.  Property Values  The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of property values for July
increased 3.2 percent from the same month in 2009, the smallest
year-over-year gain since March, the group said Sept. 28. The
Conference Board’s gauge of consumer confidence fell more than
estimated in September to 48.5 from 53.2 the previous month,
while the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index
improved from its mid-month level.  The government raised its tally of second-quarter gross-
domestic product growth to an annual pace of 1.7 percent and
reported increases in personal spending and incomes that topped
economists estimates.  The mixed data left investors questioning whether the
Federal Reserve will buy more Treasuries, a tactic known as
quantitative easing, to prop up the recovery.  Third-quarter earnings  season  unofficially starts on Oct. 7
of next week, when  Alcoa Inc . may report profit of 6 cents a
share, according to the average analyst estimate. S&P 500
companies are projected to have grown earnings by 23 percent in
the period, less than half the rate of the first two quarters of
2010, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Important’ Profit Reports  The earnings reports “will be important, not only because
of what the companies actually tell us about their results, but
also because of the forecasts that they’re likely to make for
the rest of the year,” said  John Carey , a Boston-based money-
manager at Pioneer Investment Management, which oversees about
$230 billion. “People will be reading these reports very
carefully and you could have some volatility in the market as a
result.”  Stocks fell the most this week on Sept. 27, when the S&P
500 slid 0.6 percent as investors bet that Ireland and
Portugal’s government finances are weakening, driving up the
extra yield they demand to own the nation’s debt instead of
Germany’s benchmark bunds to record closing levels.  Financials Slip  Financial shares in the S&P 500 lost 0.8 percent over the
past five days for the biggest drop among 10 groups. Buffalo,
New York-based M&T led the retreat after ending talks to combine
with Santander’s U.S. banking unit, people familiar with the
matter said. The dispute was about who would have control of the
combined institution, one person said.  Prudential Financial Inc., the second-largest U.S. life
insurer, slid 5.3 percent to $53.07, the third-biggest drop in
the S&P Financials Index.  American International Group Inc .
agreed to sell two Japan units to Prudential for $4.8 billion as
the bailed-out AIG maneuvers closer to independence from the
government. Prudential plans to issue $1.3 billion in equity to
fund the purchase. Bank of America Corp. slipped 2.2 percent to
$13.30 in the week, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co . declined 2.4
percent to $38.81.  Meredith Whitney , founder of Meredith Whitney Advisory
Group LLC in New York, also cut her full-year profit forecasts
for Morgan Stanley and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .  “We’re at the tipping point where some companies will
execute game plans well and there are others that are going to
get dragged down by the sluggish recovery,” said Alan Gayle,
senior investment strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in
Richmond, Virginia, which oversees $63 billion. “The market’s
encouraged we’ll dodge the bullet of a double dip, but economic
momentum is slowing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Whitney Kisling  in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 