-- U.S. May Warn Americans to Be Vigilant While in Europe Because of Threats
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2010-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/u-s-may-warn-americans-to-be-vigilant-while-in-europe-because-of-threats.html
The U.S. State Department is
considering whether to issue an alert warning Americans
traveling to Europe to be vigilant about possible terrorist
attacks, a U.S. official said yesterday.  The advisory would tell Americans to be aware that
terrorists often target popular tourist attractions and public
transportation, said the official, who requested anonymity
because no decision had been made. The alert wouldn’t urge
Americans not to travel to Europe, the official said.  Militants based in Pakistan are planning coordinated
strikes in the U.K., France and Germany, prompting the recent
increase in U.S. drone strikes in the region, Sky News reported,
citing U.S. officials it didn’t name. ABC News, citing U.S. and
European officials, said the tipoff came from a German terror
suspect held in Afghanistan who told interrogators that teams of
attackers with European passports have been dispatched.  The German government on Sept. 29 said it has no indication
that terrorist attacks are imminent in the country.  A day earlier, police in Paris evacuated the Eiffel Tower
for the second time in two weeks after bomb threats. Searches of
the city’s landmark yielded no evidence of a bomb either time.  The U.K.’s Telegraph reported that earlier this week,
intelligence officials in Britain intercepted a credible
Islamist-linked terror plot.  Reports have focused on attacks similar to the 2008 ones by
the Lashkar-e-Taiba guerilla group in Mumbai that left 166
people dead.  In those attacks, militants armed with grenades and rifles
stormed into the Taj Mahal Palace and Tower hotel and the Oberoi
Trident complex, singling out foreign nationals and taking
hostages in a three-day siege.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  