-- Hungary Can't `Meaningfully' Reduce Rates, Central Banker Karvalits Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-10-02T12:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-10-02/hungary-interest-rate-cut-may-weaken-forint-centra-banker-karvalits-says.html
The Hungarian central bank has no
room to “meaningfully” reduce interest rates as a cut may weaken
the forint, increasing the burden of households with foreign-
currency loans, a central bank official said.  “The currency would presumably weaken as a result and the
rise in foreign-currency repayments would curb economic recovery
and endanger fiscal stability,”  Ferenc Karvalits , deputy
governor at the central bank, said at a conference in Szeged,
Hungary today. A lower rate would boost lending and the economy
“to a minor degree” even if the forint remained stable, he said.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  kept the benchmark two-week deposit
rate at a record-low 5.25 percent on Sept. 27 as the
government’s commitment to reduce the budget deficit helped
reduce country risks. Hungary agreed to cut the  shortfall  to
below the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of output in 2011,
abandoning a fight to foster growth by widening the gap.  The central bank should focus on reducing long-term
interest rates via “anchoring inflation expectations and
maintaining the credibility of the inflation target” of 3
percent, Karvalits said.  Banks’ lending activity is “very subdued and there’s no
sign suggesting that this would change in the short term,”
Karvalits said. A stable macroeconomic and regulatory
environment is indispensable for lending to pick up, he added.  “The central bank can’t directly influence banks’ lending
willingness,” he said.  There is a “realistic” chance inflation will slow to the
central bank’s goal and the policy makers will only raise
borrowing costs if that becomes inevitable, because it wants to
help economic recovery, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President  Andras Simor  said on Sept. 27.  Gross domestic product  shrank 6.3
percent last year, the most since 1991.  The August inflation rate dropped to the lowest since June
2009, led by declines in prices for clothing and consumer goods.
The central bank in August forecast the consumer-price index
would average 4.7 percent this year and 3.5 percent in 2011.  The forint firmed 3.8 percent against the euro in the past
month, the best performance among about 170 currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  Karvalits urged the reduction of government debt, which is
close to 80 percent of gross domestic product. That keeps
financing costs “elevated” and burdens economic recovery, he
said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  