-- Cookson May Cut 600 Additional Jobs to Stay Within Bank Terms
-- Tim Barwell
-- 2009-05-14T10:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-05-14/cookson-may-cut-600-additional-jobs-to-stay-within-bank-terms.html

          
          
             Cookson Group Plc (CKSN) , the world’s
biggest maker of ceramic linings for metal smelters, announced
a new set of cost-cutting measures as a prolonged slump in its
markets puts the company at risk of breaking debt covenants.  
 Cookson will probably cut an additional 600 jobs and may
shut more plants as it tries to boost annual savings by a
further 13 million pounds ($19.7 million). Chief Executive
Officer Nick Salmon said the company needs to see a recovery in
steel markets to remain within debt agreements.  
 “We’ll see improvements in profitability in the second
half from the cost savings, but we do need to see a pickup in
steel production to be safely within our covenants,” Salmon
said on a conference call with analysts. Global estimates point
to an improvement in the second half, he said.  
 Cookson is allowed net  debt  of as much as 3.5 times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.
The level at the end of last year, before a 241 million-pound
($365 million) rights offer, was 2.6 times at 732 million
pounds. The group’s first two phases of cost initiatives target
savings of about 40 million pounds a year.  
 “Although we anticipate some recovery in the second half,
this remains far from certain,” Numis Securities analyst Nick Webster said in a note today. “The company needs to make 85
million pounds of earnings before interest and tax in 2009 to
avoid a covenant breach, suggesting there needs to be a marked
recovery in the second half of the year.” He has a “sell”
rating on the company.  
 Sign of Recovery  
 Annual steel production, which represents about half of the
ceramics division’s sales, will fall 32 percent in North
American Free Trade Agreement countries compared with a 52
percent drop in the first three months, according to estimates
by the World Steel Association. In  Europe  the full-year decline
will be 29 percent compared with a 44 percent slump in the first
quarter. That indicates production will improve later in the
year, Salmon said.  
 “We get about three to four weeks notice that  steel mills 
are coming online again, and we’re not seeing that yet,” Salmon
said. “When and where it will come is difficult to call.”  
 Underlying  revenue  was down about one-third in the first
four months of the year, the London-based company said today in
a statement. Business in January and February was “at break
even,” while March and April had a “modest profit.”  
 Cookson has a suspended new investment, dividends and
monthly top-up payments on U.K. pensions.  
 Jobs Lost  
 Group headcount by the end of 2009 is expected to be down
by about 19 percent, or 3,200 workers, compared with September
2008, the CEO said. Cookson rose 4.6 percent to 22.75 pence as
of 9:38 a.m. after dropping as much as 11 percent earlier.  
 The purchase of Foseco for 497 million pounds in 2007 added
29 plants in 17 countries including Russia, Poland and  Turkey ,
as well as products that purify steel. Cookson still expects to
generate cost savings from the acquisition of 6 million pounds.  
 CEO Salmon, who took the job in 2004, expanded in ceramics
to make London-based Cookson less dependent on the consumer-
electronics and precious-metals markets. Supplying fire-proof
casings for molten steel has become Cookson’s most profitable
business as Chinese and Ukrainian makers move from making lower-
quality construction steel to higher grades used in car
production.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel in London on 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        