-- Eiffage's Board Rejects Sacyr's EU6.6 Billion Offer
-- Joao Lima
-- 2007-04-23T18:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2007-04-23/eiffage-s-board-rejects-sacyr-s-eu6-6-billion-offer-update2-.html

          
          
             Eiffage SA (FGR) ,  France 's third-biggest
construction company, said its board rejected Spanish rival
 Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) 's 6.6 billion-euro ($9 billion) bid for
the two-thirds of the business it doesn't already own.  
 The April 19 approach from Spain's second-biggest builder
was spurned because it doesn't make strategic sense, Eiffage,
which is based near Paris, said in a statement today. Sacyr may
have to raise its offer by 20 percent after infringing rules
limiting collaboration with other investors, it said.  
 Eiffage considers Sacyr a direct competitor and has
blocked its biggest shareholder from the board for more than a
year, prompting the Madrid-based builder to resort to a hostile
bid. Eiffage decided not to cooperate with Sacyr after the pair
held 14 rounds of talks, the French company said today.  
 ``None of the meetings allowed the companies to identify
a common strategy, synergies or even a road map for future
joint projects,'' the statement said.  
 Shares of Eiffage , the builder of the Eiffel Tower,
slipped 1 cent to close at 107 euros. The stock has jumped 49
percent this year for a market value of 10 billion euros. Sacyr
shares declined 61 cents, or 1.4 percent, to 44.42 euros for a
value of 12.6 billion euros.  
 Sacyr is offering 12 new shares for every five of Eiffage
and its bid is conditional on getting 60 percent of  voting
rights , including shares already held. Based on today's closing
prices, Sacyr's stock offer values Eiffage at 106.61 euros a
share, a 0.4 percent discount.  
 Higher Price  
 Sacyr may have to increase its bid to 129.3 euros if
French market regulator AMF rules that it colluded with
minority investors to control votes in excess of its 33
percent holding, a finding that would require an offer to be
made at the price that those concerned most recently bought
stock, Eiffage said in today's statement.  
 The Spanish builder is also obliged to make an offer for
Eiffage's toll-road business Societe des Autoroutes Paris-Rhin-Rhone SA, the French company said. APRR, as the unit is
known, has a market value of 8 billion euros.  
 Sacyr began to target Eiffage after its rival won a
tender for APRR in 2005 and the Spanish builder lost a bid for
another highway operator, Sanef SA. Buying the company would
also bring access to French construction markets.  
 Sacyr Chairman Luis del Rivero last week said a merger with
Eiffage would create a business with sales of 15.4 billion
euros and refuted claims by Eiffage Chief Executive Officer Jean Francois Roverato that the companies are rivals in all areas.  
 Diversification  
 ``Sacyr needs Eiffage because it has built its success on
the fast growth of construction and housing in  Spain  over the
past 15 years,'' said Jean-Francois Gilles, chairman of Louvre
Gestion, a Paris-based unit of HSBC Holdings Plc that manages
about $9 billion. ``They think that it's something that is
nearing an end. They need diversity.''  
 Sacyr first failed to win seats on Eiffage's board a year
ago and was thwarted again last week after its French rival
suspended the votes of 89 minority investors, alleging they'd
broken regulations by acting in concert with the Spanish company.
All five directors subsequently nominated by Sacyr were defeated.  
 Sacyr has amassed a 33 percent stake in Eiffage, just shy
of the threshold for a mandatory bid, at a cost of about 1.8
billion euros. Minority Spanish investors hold 17.5 percent,
according to Eiffage, which has relied on the support of
managers with a 5 percent holding, employees with 22 percent
and state-owned bank Caisse des Depots with 8.5 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Vandore in Paris at 
 evandore@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chris Jasper  at   cjasper@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        