-- Scor buys Converium stake, has full bid rebuffed
-- By  Douwe Miedema
-- Mon Feb 19, 2007 7:25am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/02/19/businesspro-converium-scor-update-4-dc-idUSL1917374920070219

 

 ZURICH  (Reuters) - French reinsurer Scor ( SCOR.PA ) grabbed 
hold of a third of its rival Converium CHRN.S, but the Swiss 
firm rejected a full takeover offer that valued its business at 
3.1 billion Swiss francs ($2.51 billion). 


  Scor said on Monday it remained keen on a full merger 
between the two groups, but Converium said the unsolicited bid 
at 21 francs per share did not reflect its strength now that it 
had returned to health after years of financial turmoil.  "The directors are unanimous in their rejection of this 
proposal, which they believe fundamentally fails to recognize 
the value of Converium's franchise and growth prospects," the 
company said in a statement.  Scor said the combined companies would create a top-five 
global reinsurer -- a company that insures other insurers -- 
but its shares dived as investors questioned the financing of 
the deal and the strategic rationale behind it.  The French group said it had bought 32.9 percent of 
Converium's share capital, paying 21.1 francs per share for the 
stake, with analysts saying there was a good chance that Scor's 
second takeover in less than a year would succeed.  "A white knight bid is a theoretical possibility, but I 
think the likelihood of that scenario is small. I think Scor 
stands a good chance to win this bid," said Georg Marti, an 
analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank.  Converium shares surged to a high of 22.35 francs, trading 
well above the proposed bid price, before easing back for a 
gain of 11.2 percent on the day at 20.90 francs by 1150 GMT. 
Analysts said the price Scor had paid made its offer 
attractive.  "My estimates for 2008 are substantially above the 
market's, but basing on that they're paying 12.3 times earnings 
per share," said Rene Locher at Sal. Oppenheim.
  SCOR DIVES  Shares in Scor fell more than 9 percent, as markets bet the 
French group -- whose market value at $3.28 billion is not much 
bigger than its bid value for Converium -- might need to issue 
more shares and questioned its strategy.  "There is a lack of clarity regarding the strategy ... Scor 
has said it wants to refocus its portfolio on life reinsurance, 
but Converium is more of a non-life reinsurer," said Exane BNP 
Paribas analyst Erwan du Halgouet.  Scor bought the stake of just under 20 percent of Converium 
held by financier Martin Ebner's investment group Patinex, a 
spokesman for Patinex said, giving Patinex a stake in Scor as 
80 percent of the purchase price was paid in shares.  Scor in July bought German peer Revios -- the former life 
reinsurance unit of the Gerling Global Re company -- for around 
605 million euros ($795 million) and said in November it would 
continue to examine acquisition opportunities.  Mergers and acquisitions have been heating up in the 
sector, and Bermuda-based reinsurer Paris Re in January denied 
it was in talks to take over Converium after previously 
expressing interest in a newspaper interview.  Converium's premium income has halved from around $4 
billion in 2004, after it discovered a $500 million hole in 
claims provisions that led to a spate of credit-rating 
downgrades and forced the group to sell its U.S. business.  Scor has been plagued by similar problems, launching two 
emergency cash calls in recent years for a total of around 1 
billion euros in the face of very large claims hitting the 
industry. It shut its U.S. operations and set about a 
restructuring plan to cut exposure and return to profit.  Converium expects gross written premiums of between $2.1 
and 2.2 billion this year. The group hopes to gain an upgrade 
to its credit rating to the single-A level, which is seen as 
essential for reinsurers to stay in business.  Converium shares have risen 28 percent this year, against a 
4-percent rise in the Dow Jones Stoxx insurance index .SXIP.  (Additional reporting by  Sudip Kar-Gupta  in Paris)