-- McClatchy seen joining Yahoo ad deal: source
-- By  Robert MacMillan
-- Fri Apr 13, 2007 1:06pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/13/industry-mcclatchy-online-advertising-dc-idUSN1340084420070413

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - McClatchy Co. has left an Internet 
advertising pact with fellow newspaper publishers Tribune Co. 
and Gannett Co. Inc. to join a rival group close to a deal with 
Yahoo Inc., a source familiar with the matter said on Friday. 

  The decision marks a split in the Internet strategies of 
three of the largest U.S. newspaper companies, which jointly 
own stakes in online jobs site Careerbuilder.com and local 
search and discussion forum Topix.com.  The group that McClatchy would join includes publishers 
Belo Corp., Hearst Corp., Journal Register Co., Lee Enterprises 
Inc., MediaNews Group Inc. and EW Scripps Co.. It spans papers 
such as the San Francisco Chronicle and the Dallas Morning 
News.  The consortium already uses Yahoo technology to sell help- 
wanted advertising and offer other local information services 
on their related newspaper Web sites.  The publishers and Yahoo may announce an expanded agreement 
as early as next week that would allow advertisers to easily 
buy space across multiple newspaper sites, the Wall Street 
Journal reported, citing unnamed sources.  Such a deal would create a new advertising channel for 
newspapers by allowing them to set commercial rates for a much 
larger Internet readership rather than the traffic to an 
individual site, or set of a few sites, they can use now.  The existing Yahoo agreement with publishers spans at least 
176 U.S. newspapers. Publishers see it as a way to attract 
Internet ad revenue and get more people to visit their Web 
sites as print editions cope with waning circulation and 
slowing ad sales.  Yahoo's tie-up with traditional publishers also aims to 
give it a stronger foothold in local markets via the Web, 
viewed as a key area of advertising growth as it competes for 
share with Internet search leader Google Inc..  The partnership may prove fruitful, but would take time to 
gain momentum, said Benchmark Co. analyst Ed Atorino.  "In the long term, the arrangement with Yahoo could drive 
revenue to newspapers," he said. "In the time being, it's a 
little bit of an R&D venture."  Gannett, Tribune and Yahoo officials declined to comment. 
Several McClatchy executives did not return telephone calls 
seeking comment.  McClatchy shares fell 7 cents to $31.50 on the New York 
Stock Exchange. Gannett shares rose 4 cents to $57.52, while 
Tribune shares fell 11 cents to $32.76. Yahoo shares fell 14 
cents to $31.07 on the Nasdaq stock market.  (Additional reporting by  Paritosh Bansal )