-- FCC settles with Clear Channel, others on payola
-- 
-- Fri Apr 13, 2007 2:52pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/04/13/industry-fcc-payola-dc-idUSN1318477120070413

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - CBS Corp., Clear Channel 
Communications Inc. and two other radio station owners agreed 
to pay a combined $12.5 million to settle investigations into 
whether they received secret payments to play certain songs, 
the Federal Communications Commission announced on Friday. 

  The consent decrees between the agency and the four 
broadcasters came more than a year after the FCC started 
investigating possible secret payments made by the music 
industry to radio stations in exchange for playing certain 
songs on air. The practice is also known as "payola."  Clear Channel will pay $3.5 million and CBS Radio will pay 
$3 million, according to the settlements.  Also signing consent decrees were Entercom Communications 
Corp., which will pay $4 million, and Citadel Broadcasting 
Corp., which will pay $2 million.  In addition to the payments, the companies agreed to limit 
gifts and concert tickets from record companies to station 
employees and promised to hold regular training for employees 
about payola restrictions.  The four radio station owners also separately agreed to set 
aside 4,200 hours of free radio time for local and independent 
musicians and agreed .  FCC Chairman Kevin Martin, a Republican, said the 
settlements showed the agency was taking a tough stand and 
"will not tolerate" payola or other violations of FCC 
regulations.  However, Commissioner Michael Copps, a Democrat, said a 
wave of consolidation in the broadcasting industry has also 
played a big role in eliminating radio access for independent 
musicians. Concentration of station ownership "makes for radio 
that sounds the same everywhere," he said.  Copps urged radio listeners to send an e-mail to the FCC in 
coming months about whether they are hearing more and better 
music. "If, in one year, we are hearing more local musicians 
instead of the same slim crew of nationalized fare over and 
over again, we'll know we advanced the ball," he said.  The FCC launched its probe of the four broadcasters 
following an extensive investigation by former New York 
Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, currently that state's 
governor.  Last year, music companies such as EMI Group Plc and Sony 
BMG, agreed to pay fines to settle with the New York Attorney 
General's office over allegations of pay-for-play practices.  The FCC consent decrees were posted on the Web at 
 www.fcc.gov .