-- Vale Studying Brazil Steel Mill Plans With Tata, JFE
-- Jeb Blount
-- 2008-01-16T23:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2008-01-16/vale-studying-brazil-steel-mill-plans-with-tata-jfe-update2-.html

          
          
             Cia. Vale do Rio Doce , the world's
largest iron-ore producer, said it may build steel mills in
Brazil with  India 's  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and  Japan 's  JFE Holdings
Inc. (5411)  to secure buyers nearer to its mines.  
 Studies are being conducted on the viability of projects
with Tata and JFE, Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said today in an e-
mailed statement. Vale had cited ``future projects'' with Tata
and JFE in its request for antitrust approval of a $4 billion
steel mill it plans to build with China's Baosteel Group Corp.  
 Vale has taken minority stakes in four steel projects in
Brazil as part of a plan to increase domestic demand for its
iron ore, the main ingredient in steel. Vale, which will own
more than 10 percent of the Baosteel plant, has made similar
deals with Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA,  Germany 's
ThyssenKrupp AG and a unit of ArcelorMittal.  
 ``More of these projects are very likely, especially with
Tata,'' said Bernardo Lobao, a metals and mining analyst with
ARX Capital Management in Rio de Janeiro. ``Tata has been here
looking for projects.''  
 Because it takes about a ton and a half of  iron-ore  to make
a ton of steel slabs, steelmakers can reduce transport costs by
making the steel in Brazil and shipping slabs instead of ore.  
 Mumbai-based Tata is likely considering the use of
Brazilian-made slabs for its Corus unit, an Anglo-Dutch
steelmaker it acquired a year ago, Lobao said.  
 Baosteel, Vale Mill  
 Baosteel and Vale's mill, which will produce about 5
million metric tons of steel slabs a year, won't hinder
competition in Brazil because most of the output is destined for
export, according to a report on the Web site of the antitrust
agency, known as Cade. The agency approved the request today for
Vale and Baosteel to build the mill in Anchieta, Brazil.  
 Tokyo-based JFE didn't immediately respond to an e-mail
request for comment. Tata Steel spokesman Sanjay Choudhry could
not be reached.  
 Vale fell 1.95 reais, or 4.1 percent, it's biggest one-day
decline in a month, to 45.35 reais in  Sao Paulo . The shares have
fallen 11 percent this year while Brazil's benchmark Bovespa
index of the 64 most-traded stocks on the Sao Paulo stock
exchange fell 8 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeb Blount in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jblount@bloomber.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        