-- IBM profit tops targets, forecast up
-- By  Jim Finkle
-- Thu Jul 17, 2008 9:09pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/07/18/businesspro-ibm-results-dc-idUSWNAB118420080718

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - IBM ( IBM.N ) reported a 22 percent rise 
in quarterly profit, blowing past Wall Street targets and 
raising its 2008 forecast, as emerging markets used its 
services, software and equipment to expand, and larger 
countries turned to technology to save money. 

  IBM posted a 12 percent rise in service contract signings, 
a business in which it leads the world, and said major Western 
countries were buying technology to reduce costs, as well as 
manage risks and compliance.  The results were much sunnier than those posted by Google 
Inc ( GOOG.O ) and Microsoft Corp ( MSFT.O ), which both missed 
analysts' targets, with the software maker citing a tough U.S. 
economy and Google blaming lower returns managing its cash.  IBM Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge told a 
conference call that U.S. revenue grew 5 percent in the 
quarter, the weak dollar helped IBM and that currency hedges 
would help it mitigate any strengthening of the dollar next 
year. It was difficult not to say IBM was ahead on reaching its 
2010 profit target, he concluded.  The company is widely seen as a defensive play for 
investors in a troubled market.  "Once again pretty impressive," said Zach Rosenstock, an 
analyst at Wayne Hummer Wealth Management. "They're focusing 
outside the U.S. to ride through the domestic downturn."  International Business Machines Corp said second-quarter 
net income rose to $2.77 billion, or $1.98 per share, from 
$2.26 billion, or $1.55 per share, a year earlier.  Revenue rose 13 percent to $26.8 billion. Currency gains 
added 7 percentage points to the growth rate, IBM said.  Analysts, on average, expected profit of $1.82 per share 
and revenue of $25.92 billion, according to Reuters Estimates.  But shares sagged slightly in after-hours trading.  "The Google number may cast a shadow on this stock," Fifth 
Third Asset Management Chief Investment Officer Keith Wirtz 
said.  IBM raised its 2008 earnings per share forecast to at least 
$8.75 from a previous outlook of at least $8.50 a share, taking 
it ahead of the Wall Street average view of $8.54 per share.
  BUYER CONFIDENCE  Armonk, New York-based IBM gets about two-thirds of its 
revenue from outside the United States. Recurring revenue from 
services and software contracts accounts for about half its 
business, providing a buffer from sharp turns in the economy.  New signings in the quarter rose 12 percent to $14.7 
billion. Loughridge said in an interview that he expects them 
to grow at a similar rate in the third quarter.  He also said that corporate scrutiny of purchases has not 
increased over the past six months.  "Did we see in the second half of 2007 a lengthening of the 
approval process, more layers of approval? Sure we did," he 
said. "Do I think that's gotten to be more restrictive as we 
have gone through the first and second quarter? I don't think 
so."  Revenue from IBM's Global Technology Services business - 
which includes outsourcing, security and maintenance - rose 15 
percent to $10.1 billion. Revenue at IBM's Global Business 
Services, which does consulting and software development, rose 
18 percent to $5.1 billion.  Daniel Genter, chief investment officer of RNC Genter 
Capital Management, said that strong services growth showed 
IBM's customers are relatively confident about the economic 
outlook because they are willing to make new investments in 
technology.  "What we are seeing is that they are not cutting back on IT 
spending," said Genter, whose firm holds about 500,000 IBM 
shares and manages a $2.8 billion portfolio.  The Armonk, New York-based company's sluggish hardware 
business got a boost thanks to the February launch of a new 
line of mainframe computers, its first upgrade in almost three 
years. Mainframe revenue rose 32 percent, helping push hardware 
revenue up 2 percent to $5.2 billion.  Revenue from software, IBM's most profitable business, 
climbed 17 percent to $5.6 billion.  Due to its stability, many investors view IBM shares as a 
safe haven in tough economic times. The stock has risen about 
17 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent decline in the 
Dow Jones Industrial index  .DJI  and a 14 percent drop in the 
Nasdaq Composite Index  .IXIC .  IBM trades at about 13 times next year's expected earnings 
per share, compared with about 11 for rival Hewlett-Packard Co  ( HPQ.N ).  IBM posted strong revenue in the United States and the rest 
of the Americas region even as the economy slowed due to the 
banking crisis and slowdown in construction and retail sectors.  Revenue in the Americas region rose 8 percent to $10.9 
billion. Growth was 6 percent after currency adjustments.  Revenue from Europe, the Middle East and Africa rose 20 
percent to $9.8 billion, or 7 percent after currency 
adjustments. IBM's revenue in Asia rose 16 percent, or 6 
percent after currency adjustments, to $5.3 billion.  Income from continuing operations rose 22 percent to $2.8 
billion. The year-earlier results included a gain from the sale 
of a printing unit that the company has since divested. Without 
that gain, income from continuing operations would have been up 
26 percent.  IBM shares fell to $126.12 in-after hours trading after 
initially rising about 2 percent from the New York Stock 
Exchange close of $126.52.  (Reporting by Jim Finkle,  Peter Henderson  and  Sue Zeidler , 
editing by Phil Berlowitz,  Andre Grenon  and Carol Bishopric)