-- Germany's DAX Index Gains Most Since May as Siemens, Deutsche Bank Advance
-- Adam Haigh
-- 2010-07-22T15:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/aareal-bank-deutsche-bank-and-medion-may-be-active-german-equity-preview.html

          
          
             German stocks  rose the most since
May as unexpected growth in European services and manufacturing
industries eased concern that the economic recovery in faltering
and some U.S. companies reported earnings that topped estimates.  
 Siemens AG and  Deutsche Bank AG  led gains on the benchmark
DAX Index as Volvo AB, the world’s second-largest truckmaker,
reported a second straight quarterly profit and beat analyst’s
forecasts. ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG rallied 5.5 percent as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised buying the shares.  
 The  DAX  climbed 2.5 percent to 6,142.15 at the close of
trading at 5:30 p.m. in Frankfurt. The measure is the only major
western European benchmark index to have risen this year as UBS
AG and Deutsche Bank AG advised investors to increase holdings
of the nation’s shares that are more geared to global growth.
The DAX has climbed 3.1 percent in 2010 compared to losses of
1.8 percent on the U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index and 8.5 percent for
France’s CAC 40 Index.  
 “Risk appetite made a sharp return today as equity markets
shrugged off the ‘unusual uncertainty” of Bernanke’s comments
yesterday,” said  Michael Hewson , an analyst at CMC Markets in
London. “They have rallied on a number of factors, focusing on
company earnings and better than expected economic data out of
Europe and the U.K.”  
 Aid Growth  
 U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  yesterday
said central bankers “remain prepared” to act as needed to aid
growth even as they get ready to eventually raise interest rates
from almost zero and shrink a record balance sheet.  
 While Fed officials plan for the exit, “we also recognize
that the economic outlook remains unusually uncertain,”
Bernanke said in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee.  
 A composite index based on a survey of euro-area services
and manufacturing purchasing managers increased to 56.7 from 56
in June, London-based Markit Economics said today. Economists
had projected a drop to 55.5, the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  
 A gauge of German manufacturing also unexpectedly gained
this month. In the U.K., retail sales rose more than economists
forecast in June as the World Cup soccer tournament stoked
purchases at electrical goods shops and department stores.  
 U.S. companies from United Parcel Service Inc. to
Caterpillar Inc. and AT&T Inc. raised their  profit  forecasts
today. More than 80 percent of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies that have reported results since July 12 beat
analysts’ per-share earnings estimates, Bloomberg data show.  
 Siemens , Europe’s largest engineering company, rallied 3.6
percent to 76.01 euros. Deutsche Bank, the country’s biggest
lender, climbed 4.1 percent to 49.69 euros.  
 Broadcaster ProSiebenSat.1 Media rose 5.5 percent to 12.11
euros as Goldman Sachs raised its recommendation on the shares
to “buy” from “neutral,” and added the shares to its
“conviction buy” list.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Adam Haigh  in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        