-- Maazel Got $3 Million From Philharmonic, $0 From Own Festival
-- Philip Boroff
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/maazel-got-3-million-from-philharmonic-0-from-own-festival.html

          
          
             Even when making music in Virginia
horse country on a summer evening, maestro  Lorin Maazel  can
still grab Manhattan’s attention.  
 Last Friday, the 80-year-old conductor took the stage at a
 music festival  he hosts on his 550-acre farm in Castleton,
Virginia, leading  George Gershwin’s  “An American in Paris.”  
 A few hours earlier, the New York Philharmonic released its
tax return for the year that ended in August 2009. The last page
of the e-mailed document revealed that Maazel earned nearly $3.3
million in his final season as music director of the orchestra.  
 That was a $514,038 raise from a year earlier. The
Philharmonic itself didn’t do so well: During the same period,
it incurred an operating deficit of $4.6 million.  
 “It’s outrageous,” said Alan Gordon, the head of the
 American Guild of Musical Artists , a union that represents
singers, dancers and production staff and doesn’t do business
with the Philharmonic. “While symphonies, dance and opera
companies are having financial difficulties, for the
Philharmonic to pay that kind of money to anyone is
outrageous.”  
 A Philharmonic spokeswoman declined requests to explain why
the retiring senior podium champ received a 19 percent boost.
(The pay was nearly six times the $501,519 earned by
Concertmaster Glenn Dicterow.) The orchestra’s other big payouts
included $457,712 to  Opus 3 Artists , an artist management firm,
and compensation of $334,842 to Philip Myers, the principal
French horn player and soloist.  
 Gilbert’s Pay  
 The orchestra would not reveal the compensation of Maazel’s
successor,  Alan Gilbert . This will, however, be documented in
the fullness of time, at the latest by the next tax return.  Gary Parr , a vice chairman of Lazard Ltd. and chairman of the
Philharmonic, didn’t return an e-mail request for an interview.  
 Maazel’s compensation illustrates that even after financial
markets pummeled endowments, seven-figure paychecks survived at
the country’s premiere performing-arts organizations.  
 Michael Kaiser , president of Washington’s John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts and a consultant to cultural
organizations, said that leaders are responsible for maintaining
fiscal health as well as creating great art.  
 ‘Too Much’  
 “Are they paying me too much?” asked Kaiser, who earned
$1.1 million in the year that ended in September 2008 and has
presided over consistent budget surpluses. “That’s for the
board to decide. If I were running deficits, I’d say absolutely
they’re paying too much.” He added that he isn’t familiar
enough with the Philharmonic organization and board to comment
on their situation.  
 The Philharmonic is projected to run another deficit of
about $4.6 million this season, which ends on Aug. 31.  
 Zarin Mehta , 71, the president and executive director of
the Philharmonic, earned $1 million in 2008, according to the
return. He made $807,000 this season, the spokeswoman said.  
 The case for rich salaries in the nonprofit-arts sector is
based partly on the small pool of available stars. Organizations
must pay up to attract top talent.  
 Less Work  
 That argument in U.S. classical music has lost some steam.
Kaiser points out that the recording industry remains in the
doldrums, offering less competing work for conductors and
soloists. And European symphonies, another competitor, are under
pressure as governments reduce subsidies.  
 Ken Berger, president of  Charity Navigator , a Mahwah, New
Jersey, nonprofit that evaluates the financial health of other
nonprofits, argues that it’s seldom necessary to pay top dollar.  
 “It presumes that the primary motivator is dollars and
cents,” he said. “The evidence I see is that there are many
motivators.”  
 Indeed, Maazel himself is exhibit No. 1 on this point. The
evidence is the  tax return  for the Chateauville Foundation,
Maazel’s labor of love that stages his annual Castleton Festival
and offers master classes for conductors. It ends this weekend.  
 Maazel’s pay there, according to the return and confirmed
by a festival spokeswoman: $0.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Lorin Maazel  
                       
                         
                           Jose Giribas/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Lorin Maazel, former conductor of the New York Philharmonic orchestra. Maazel was paid $3.3 million by the New York Philharmonic in the year ending in August 2009, his last season with the orchestra. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Lorin Maazel, former conductor of the New York Philharmonic orchestra. Maazel was paid $3.3 million by the New York Philharmonic in the year ending in August 2009, his last season with the orchestra. Photographer: Jose Giribas/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
