-- ABB Reports Second Straight Profit Drop as Utilities Pare Power Spending
-- Antonio Ligi
-- 2010-07-22T04:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/abb-reports-second-straight-profit-drop-as-utilities-pare-power-spending.html

          
          
             ABB Ltd. , the world’s largest
builder of electricity networks, reported its second consecutive
decline in quarterly earnings as utilities in Europe and the
U.S. postponed spending on new grids.  
 Net income  fell to $623 million in the second quarter from
$675 million a year earlier, the Zurich-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. That compares with a mean estimate of
$554.5 million in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Orders rose 5
percent to $7.67 billion.  
 “The strong second quarter results show how we are using
our improved cost base and leading position in key industrial
markets to take maximum advantage of the global economic
recovery,” Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan  said in the
statement. “It’s the great strength of ABB’s portfolio that
automation can drive profitable growth during a period of lower
power demand.”  
 The former General Electric Co. executive, who abandoned an
attempted takeover of Chloride Group Plc three weeks ago, is
focusing on cost cuts following a drop in demand for big-ticket
items and increased competition from Chinese rivals. ABB, which
has tapped  emerging market  investment in power stations, is
targeting $3 billion in savings by the end of this year.  
 So-called base orders, valued at below $15 million, form
the backbone of profits at the Swiss company. Demand for items
like circuit breakers and cables fared better than demand for
big-ticket items like grids. Large orders logged in the quarter
included an $89 million contract from the Saudi Electricity
Company to build a new substation to ensure reliable power
supplies for the King Abdullah Financial District in the city of
Riyadh.  
 ABB suffered alongside French turbine maker Alstom SA,
which said July 20 that orders in the three-month period slumped
36 percent as customers ordered fewer power plants. Utilities
are adopting a “wait and see attitude” toward projects,
leading Alstom to predict weakening profitability over the next
two years.  GE  reported a 4.3 percent drop in sales on July 16.
The U.S. company’s revenue trailed analysts’ estimates on fewer
shipments of products such as turbines and railroad locomotives.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Antonio Ligi  in Zurich at 
 aligi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        