-- China's Stocks Advance, Capping Shanghai Composite's Best Week This Year
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-23T07:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/agricultural-bank-of-china-fuyao-huaneng-power-china-equity-preview.html

          
          
             China’s stocks  rose, capping the
benchmark index’s best week in seven months, on speculation the
government won’t introduce more measures to curb bank loans and
property prices after leaders pledged policy stability.  
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and Bank of
China Ltd. climbed at least 0.6 percent after Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said stable policies should be the main theme in the second half.
Jiangxi Copper Co. paced gains among metals producers on higher
commodity prices.  Shenzhen Kingdom Sci-Tech Co. , a developer of
financial security software, dropped the most in a week after
saying first-half profit probably fell due to rising wage costs.  
 “The macro adjustment will be very modest in the second
half and you won’t see any draconian measures like what the
government did in the first half,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at
Central China Securities Holdings Co. in Shanghai. ‘Sentiment is
improving and very favorable for a rebound in stocks.”  
 The  Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, gained 9.62, or 0.4 percent, to
2,572.03 at the 3 p.m. close. The  CSI 300 Index  rose 0.4 percent
to 2,793.08.  
 The Shanghai index advanced 6.1 percent this week, the
biggest  weekly gain  since Dec. 4, on expectations the government
will relax property curbs and allow for more bank lending to
counter a slowdown in economic growth. Energy and material
stocks climbed the most this week, while consumer staples and
utilities, considered defensive stocks, lagged behind.  
 The central bank has raised banks’ reserve requirements
three times this year and the government boosted down payments
and mortgage rates for multiple-purchases of homes to curb
record lending growth and asset bubbles. The Shanghai index has
fallen 22 percent this year on concern measures to control real-
estate speculation and rising consumer prices will damp earnings.  
 Domestic Demand  
 Premier Wen also highlighted the importance of expanding
domestic demand, saying that China would “improve” stimulus
measures for boosting consumption. The comments by Wen and
President  Hu Jintao  were published by Xinhua News Agency on a
government website yesterday.  
 Hu said China will continue to implement a proactive fiscal
policy and moderately loose monetary policy. Wen said the
government would boost domestic consumption in the second half,
while continuing to balance the goals of relatively fast growth,
restraining inflation expectations and restructuring the economy.  
 “The fact the government won’t intensify tightening itself
is good news,” said  Zhang Qi , an analyst at Haitong Securities
Co. in Shanghai. “Low valuations and good sentiment may carry
on the rally.”  
 Banks Gain  
 ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, rose 1.4 percent
to 4.32 yuan. Bank of China added 0.6 percent to 3.57 yuan.
 Agricultural Bank of China , the world’s biggest initial public
offering this year, climbed 2.9 percent to 2.81 yuan.  
 China Everbright Bank Co. plans to sell as many as 6.1
billion shares in Shanghai in an initial public offering that
analysts estimate may raise as much as 18 billion yuan ($2.7
billion). Chinese companies raised 215.3 billion yuan from IPOs
in the first half, the highest this decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 China’s stocks  may be starting a “new bull market” that
could help the Shanghai Composite rally 21 percent by the end of
the year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. technical analysts.  
 The  Shanghai Composite  touched 2,319.74 on July 2, reaching
the lower trend line that had marked its decline from the August
2009 high. That’s the last of three major downside targets
needed to “build a positive macro case” for the resumption of
the “bull cycle” that started in October 2008, according to
chief technical strategist  Michael Krauss  and  David Cohen .  
 ‘Bullish Confirmation’  
 A rally in Chinese shares this week helped the Shanghai
index end the  trading day  above the 2,500 level for three
consecutive sessions, the “first positive sign,” according to
the analysts. They said closes above 2,650 over the next few
weeks would be “very bullish confirmation” of a rebound that
may take the index to as high as 3,100 by the end of 2010,
representing a 21 percent gain from yesterday’s close.  
 “Chinese stocks have been huge underperformers for the
past 12 months and now show potential to outperform all global
equity indexes in the next six to 12 months,” the analysts
wrote in a report.  
 A gauge of material stocks in the CSI 300 rallied 8.6
percent this week, while a measure of energy producers jumped
9.5 percent. Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the
metal, gained 1.3 percent to 29.02 yuan today. Tongling
Nonferrous Metals Group Co., the second biggest, rose 1.8
percent to 15.92 yuan.  
 Crude oil rallied 3.6 percent in New York yesterday, while
the London Metal Exchange Index, a measure of six metals
including copper and zinc, rose 2.3 percent.  
 ‘Heading Higher’  
 Shanghai Shimao Co.  climbed 1 percent to 13.76 yuan, the
highest since April 16, after the developer said first-half net
income may have risen about 700 percent from a year ago. A gauge
of property stocks gained 6 percent this week.  
 Shenzhen Kingdom Sci-Tech  dropped 2.1 percent to 10.39 yuan.
First-half profit probably fell 70 percent from a year ago due
to rising wage costs, the company said in an exchange filing.
Utility stocks also dropped the most in the CSI 300 today,
losing 0.5 percent.  
 China’s stock markets are “heading higher” given the
perception among investors that slowing economic growth and
easing inflation will spur the government to ease its policy
tightening, according to Samsung Securities.  
 “Market sentiment is beginning to turn, as reasons for
investors to anticipate the end of the tightening cycle have
appeared with the likely slowing of economic-growth momentum
into 2H and dissipating expectations of inflationary pressure,”
 Alfred Chin , a Hong Kong-based strategist, wrote in a note.  
 He said the market doesn’t need a policy reversal to rally.
Instead, dissipating uncertainty over further policy tightening
measures would be sufficient, Chin said.  
 The following companies were among the most active in
China’s markets. Stock symbols are in brackets after companies’
names.  
 Dingsheng Tiangong Construction Machinery Co.  (600335 CH)
jumped the 10 percent daily limit for a second day to 9.90 yuan
on plans to swap its assets with China Automobile Trading Co.  
      Yabao Pharmaceutical Group Co.  (600351 CH) gained 4.3
percent to 8.55 yuan, the highest since June 24. The stock was
rated “outperform” in initial coverage by Citic Securities Co.
analysts led by  He Juying , who cited low valuation and growth
potential. The brokerage set a share-price estimate of 9.3 yuan.  
 -- Zhang Shidong . Editors:  Allen Wan ,  Stephanie Wong   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7014 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        