-- Thai Investors, Biggest Holders of Korean Bonds, Pull Back as Rates Rise
-- Yumi Teso
-- 2010-07-22T02:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/thai-investors-biggest-holders-of-korean-bonds-pull-back-as-rates-rise.html

          
          
             Thailand’s biggest holders of Korean
debt are trimming their positions as the prospect of steeper
interest-rate increases at home boosts returns on local bonds.  
 The Southeast Asian nation’s  holdings , the largest outside
of South Korea, totaled 16.6 trillion won ($13.8 billion) at the
end of June, according to the Seoul-based Financial Supervisory
Service. That’s down from 16.7 trillion won at the start of the
year and compares with increases of 7.7 trillion won in 2009 and
8.1 trillion won in 2008.  
 Korean bond investments at Kasikorn Asset Management Co.,
Thailand’s largest money manager, have dropped 29 percent this
year to 100 billion baht ($3.1 billion) and those at SCB Asset
Management Co., the second-biggest, declined 14 percent to 109
billion baht. Bangkok-based  Asset Plus Fund Management Co.  has
started one Korean bond fund since July 1, compared with two a
month in the first half, and has yet to decide on more.  
 “Everyone knows that Thailand is in an interest-rate-
hiking cycle and that will make Korea funds less attractive
compared with the local market,” said Teerasan Dutiyabodhi,
senior fund manager of TMB Asset Management Co., which manages
around $3.72 billion. “But investors will come back to the
funds again as Korea funds still offer higher rates.”  
 Central banks in Malaysia, India, South Korea and Thailand
all raised rates this month, seeking to tame inflation as their
economies improve. South Korea’s economy expanded 8.1 percent
from a year earlier in the first quarter and consumer prices
increased 2.6 percent in June, while Thailand’s gross domestic
product jumped 12 percent and its inflation rate was 3.3 percent.  
 Rate Outlooks  
 Thailand became the biggest holder of Korean debt as
investors sought higher returns in overseas bond markets after
the central bank cut rates to a six-year low. Before the July 14
increase, the Bank of Thailand had kept its benchmark rate at
1.25 percent since April 2009, the lowest level since 2004.  
 The Bank of Korea will raise its  benchmark rate  25 basis
points to 2.5 percent by year-end, compared with a predicted
gain of 50 basis points in Thailand to 2 percent, according to
the median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys of economists. Bank of
Thailand Deputy Governor Bandid Nijathaworn said July 20 this
month’s increase “won’t be a one-time event.”  
 “It’s not our choice to reduce or increase Korean bond
funds exposure,”  Patchara Samalapa , who oversees some $16
billion as managing director of Kasikorn Asset, wrote in an e-
mailed response to Bloomberg on July 20. “We are still offering
Korean bonds, but they are not selling as well.”  
 Looking Elsewhere  
 The company is expanding into other markets, including
offering an India fund.  
 “In the pipeline, we don’t have any funds on Korea,” said
 Win Udomrachtavanich , chief investment officer at Asset Plus,
which manages about $700 million. “Demand should be slowing
down because of anticipation of rising rates in Thailand.”  
 The  yield premium  of South Korea’s benchmark three-year
government bonds over those for Thailand was 119 basis points
yesterday, down from 170 basis points at the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. TMB Asset says the gap
is still attractive enough for it to maintain this year’s pace
of introducing two Korean debt funds each week.  
 SCB Asset, which oversees 526 billion baht, has Korean bond
funds with assets totaling some 56 billion baht maturing in the
second half of this year and company President Jotika
Savanananda said she envisages no more than 70 percent of that
amount will be reinvested in similar products.  
 “Some Thai investors have switched to investing in
domestic corporate bonds whose returns have become more
attractive as the prospect of higher interest rates boosts
yields,” Jotika said. “There remains demand for funds
investing in bonds in Korea, though it won’t be as high as
recent years.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        