-- Thai Stock Purchases Support Gains as Foreigners Flee, Exchange Head Says
-- Anuchit Nguyen
-- 2010-07-22T05:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/thai-stock-purchases-support-gains-as-foreigners-flee-exchange-head-says.html

          
          
             Thailand’s investors have  offset 
waning overseas demand for the nation’s equities amid political
unrest, driving the benchmark index beyond a two-year high on
confidence in earnings growth, the head of the bourse said.  
 “It’s a blessing that local individual investors have been
the major support for the market,”  Charamporn Jotikasthira ,
president of the  Stock Exchange of Thailand , said in an
interview in Bangkok today. “Domestic investors will continue
to be the main force for the market even as political
instability scares overseas investors away.’’  
 The benchmark  SET Index  has advanced 14 percent this year,
the second-best performer among Asia’s 10 biggest markets, even
as Thailand had the only outflow of foreign investment among
regional markets. Clashes between soldiers and demonstrators
between April and May caused at least 89 fatalities in the
deadliest unrest in 18 years. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
has imposed a state of emergency in Bangkok and a fifth of the
country since April to control anti-government protests.  
 Overseas investors have  sold  17.9 billion baht ($554
million) more of Thai stocks than they bought this year,
compared with net buying of 39 billion baht in 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Thai  individuals  have bought a
net 21 billion baht of domestic equities this year, after
offloading 42.6 billion baht in 2009.  
 ‘Strong Growth’  
 “Local investors have more confidence because the
country’s strong economic growth will boost corporate
earnings,” said Charamporn, who took over as head of the
exchange on June 1. “They are also confident that the political
shock a few months ago probably passed.”  
 Thailand’s  exports  last month rose the most in more than 18
years to surpass the record set before the global financial
crisis, the commerce ministry said yesterday. Shipments jumped
46.3 percent in June from a year earlier to an unprecedented
$18.04 billion, Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said.  
 Southeast Asia’s second-biggest  economy  will
“conservatively” expand at 5.5 percent this year on exports,
Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said on July 7.  
 Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore will allow investors in
each country to trade in their local currency shares of the
three bourses by the fourth quarter of 2011, boosting markets in
the region, Charamporn said.  
 “They can use their existing accounts with their
brokerages to trade shares in the three countries,” he said.
“This will help boost trading turnover on the three bourses
from investors in the three countries.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anuchit Nguyen  in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Stock Exchange of Thailand President Charamporn Jotikasthira speaks during an interview in Bangkok. Photographer: Brent Lewin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 5 (Bloomberg) -- Bank of Thailand Deputy Governor Bandid Nijathaworn talked with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin from Bangkok on July 2 about the outlook for the country's economy and central bank monetary policy. 
     Thailand will consider raising its benchmark interest rate, Bandid said, after the nation’s worst political violence in almost two decades ended without derailing the recovery. Thailand has refrained from joining Taiwan, Malaysia, India and Australia in raising borrowing costs this year, choosing to keep its benchmark rate at 1.25 percent in June as local political unrest and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis threatened the economy. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Charamporn Jotikasthira in an interview  
                       
                         
                           Brent Lewin/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Stock Exchange of Thailand President Charamporn Jotikasthira in an interview in Bangkok. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Stock Exchange of Thailand President Charamporn Jotikasthira in an interview in Bangkok. Photographer: Brent Lewin/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A security guard stands outside the Stock Exchange of Thailand in Bangkok. Photographer: Brent Lewin/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
