-- Air India May Shed 7,000 Jobs as Workers Retire, Union Says
-- Siddharth Philip
-- 2010-07-22T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/air-india-may-shed-7-000-jobs-to-cut-costs-as-workers-retire-union-says.html

          
          
             National Aviation Co. of India Ltd.,
the state-owned parent of Air India, may shed as many as 7,000
jobs through retirements over the next three years as it seeks
its first profit, according to the company’s biggest union.  
 About 9,000 workers will probably retire in the period of
whom only 2,000 may be replaced, George Abraham, the Aviation
Industry Employees’ Guild’s general secretary, said by phone
yesterday from Mumbai. Some of the other retirees will likely be
replaced by new hires at suppliers and ventures, he said.  
 National Aviation’s board is due to discuss a restructuring
plan on July 25 and paring some of the more than 30,000 workers
may help in meeting a government-set cost-cutting target. The
company has been unprofitable every year since its formation in
2007 as it struggles to combine two carriers and loses customers
to  Jet Airways (India) Ltd.  and  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd.   
 “Losing people is a very good thing for Air India but they
need to make sure that they retain the skills,” said
 Christopher Tarry , a London-based independent aviation analyst.
For outsourcing to work there needs to be “a competitive
environment otherwise they’ll be replacing an internal monopoly
for an external one.”  
 About half of National Aviation’s workforce will reach the
retirement age of 60 years old, over the next five years, said
Abraham, who will address the July 25 board meeting. The union
has a “progressive” attitude toward restructuring, he said.  
 The carrier expects “a lot” of retirements in the coming
years as it had a surge in hiring in the 1970s, said airline
spokesman  K. Swaminathan . He didn’t give a more precise
estimate.  
 National Aviation plans to cut losses by about 75 percent
in the year ending March, Chairman and Managing Director  Arvind Jadhav  said last week. Internationally focused Air India was
combined with domestic carrier Indian Airlines to form the
company about three years ago.  
 Ground-handling Venture  
 National Aviation plans to transfer as many as 3,000
ground-handling staff to a newly formed venture with  Singapore
Airport Terminal Services Ltd.  to pare costs, Abraham said.
Other similar moves may follow, he said.  
 The company had total debts of 152 billion rupees ($3.2
billion) as of June last year, according to the government. On
July 14, it extended the deadline for banks to bid on the
refinancing of $1.15 billion of debt.  
 National Aviation has a  17 percent  share of India’s
domestic air-travel market, trailing  Jet  and  Kingfisher ,
according to the aviation ministry.  
 The company received 8 billion rupees in the form of new
equity from the government last fiscal year. A further 12
billion rupees was also set aside for the airline operator in
the budget for the current year, according to the ministry of
civil aviation.  
 The government has said that National Aviation must cut
costs by 15 billion rupees and boost sales by 12 billion rupees
before it will consider injecting more funds into the company.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Siddharth Philip  in Mumbai at 
 Sphilip3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Arvind Jadhav, Air India's managing director, pauses during a news conference. Photographer: Namas Bhojani/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
