-- Airbus, Boeing See Farnborough Orders Surge as Flights Take Off
-- Rachel Layne
-- 2010-07-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/airbus-boeing-reap-28-billion-of-farnborough-orders-as-flights-take-off.html

          
          
             Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co . won 237
jetliner orders worth $28 billion at this week’s Farnborough Air
Show, more than three times the number announced in Paris a year
ago, prompting some executives to say the global slump is over.  
 Airbus won 130 contracts with a list price of $13 billion,
edging out Boeing on 103 orders worth $10 billion. The European
company also announced $15 billion of pledges versus $4 billion
at Boeing. In the regional market,  Brazil ’s Embraer trumped  Bombardier Inc ., which failed to win new buyers for its CSeries.  
 Orders were dominated by the resurgent aircraft-leasing
industry, with Steven Udvar-Hazy’s Air Lease Corp. acquiring 105
single-aisle planes and General Electric Co.’s GECAS adding 100,
both spreading orders across the two main manufacturers. Airbus,
which leapfrogged Boeing as the largest jet manufacturer in
2003, lifted its order forecast for this year to more than 400
jets, and Boeing said it had raised internal targets.  
 “I’m surprised by the level of enthusiasm for sustainable
recovery, given that we’re in the early stages of an economic
decline that could go on for years,” said  Howard Wheeldon ,
senior strategist at BGC Partners LP in  London . “The industry
is saying we’re through this, we’re moving on -- the light at
the end of the tunnel is already here. That’s the sense you
get.”  
 Embraer, or Empresa Brasileira de Aeronautica SA, scooped
37 contracts worth $1.4 billion for its regional jets, the bulk
of them from Flybe, Britain’s biggest domestic airline, together
with pre-orders for an additional 34 planes valued at $1.3
billion.  
 CSeries Flop  
 Bombardier presented 23 firm orders valued at $1 billion
for its business jets and turboprops at the Farnborough event.
It announced no regional jet contracts and failed to secure
Qatar Airways Ltd. as a buyer for the CSeries, after the Gulf
carrier couldn’t reach terms with engine maker  Pratt & Whitney .  
 The biggest single airline contract was from Dubai-based
Emirates, which bought 12 Boeing 777-300ER long-haul planes
valued at $3.25 billion. Gulf rival Qatar also added two 777s.  
 “The world will start traveling again, there’s plenty of
traffic for everyone,” said Emirates President  Tim Clark , whose
airline has ordered 90 of Airbus’s A380 superjumbos in total.  
 Among Western carriers,  AMR Corp .’s  American Airlines  will
buy 35 Boeing 737s, OAO Aeroflot is adding 11  Airbus A330  and
Virgin America Inc. signed a pledge for 40 A320s.  
 The  airline industry  will post a $2.5 billion profit in
2010, reversing two years of losses, the  International Air
Transport Association  predicted last month, scrapping an earlier
estimate for a $2.8 billion deficit.  
 Traffic Returns  
 Passenger traffic climbed back above the pre-recession
highs of early 2008 in May, and premium travel rose the most in
six years as business confidence increased. While seat occupancy
reached 76 percent, fleet utilization is still 5 percent below
pre-recession levels for single-aisle planes and 8 percent lower
for wide-body jets, IATA says.  
 The orders won by Boeing and Airbus this week eclipsed the
78 orders and pledges in Paris last year. They also fell 82
short of the total for the last Farnborough show in 2008, which
predated the credit crunch and recession, having been held two
months before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  
 Airbus Sales Chief John Leahy said the sales surge shows
“the recession is definitely over,” while  Tom Enders , the
chief executive officer, said the show was “good for the
industry,” with more contracts signed than anticipated.  
 Airbus had previously targeted as many as 300 orders for
2010. Enders said the Toulouse, France-based company will
achieve a production target of more than 20 A380 double-deckers
and aims to sign up one more customer for the jet in 2010.  
 ‘Hot Cycle’  
 “The business will stay hot, because it’s a hot cycle,”
Marlin Dailey, Boeing’s commercial sales chief, said in an
interview. “Whether that will translate into orders is hard to
say, but there’s definitely a lot of interest. On balance, we’ll
see a growth trend over the next couple of years.”  
   General Electric Co ., the world’s biggest maker of  jet
engines , predicted the fastest growth in the industry coming
from emerging markets such as the Middle East, Asia and Latin
America. Developed economies will expand more slowly, GE
Aviation Chief Executive  David Joyce  said.  
 “It makes you feel good that everyone is feeling some part
of the recovery versus last year,” Joyce said in an interview.
“In the past month we’ve started to see some positive trends.”  
 Louis Chenevert, CEO of United Technologies Corp., which
owns Pratt, said external events could still impede the
recovery, citing past developments such as the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks on the U.S., the SARS epidemic in  Asia  and the Icelandic
ash cloud that closed European airports this spring.  
 “While we’re optimistic that the outlook looks a lot
better, external forces can change the picture,” he said in an
interview. “You just never know what’s in front of you.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Farnborough, England, via 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Farnborough, England, via   aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Air Lease Corp. chief executive officer and founder Steven Udvar-Hazy. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Tom Enders, chief executive officer of Airbus SAS, talks with Bloomberg's Rishaad Salamat about the outlook for aircraft orders this year and production of the company's A380 and A320 jets.
     Airbus and Boeing Co. announced 189 orders on the first day of the Farnborough Air Show, more than double the total on day one of last year’s Paris event, as leasing companies returned to the market after the recession. Enders speaks on Bloomberg Television's "InBusiness With Margaret Brennan." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Tom Enders, chief executive officer of Airbus SAS, right, listens as Steven Udvar-Hazy, chief executive officer and founder of Air Lease Corp., speaks. Photographer: Simon Dawson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
