-- Taiwan May Try to Reach Free Trade Accord With Singapore, Negotiator Says
-- Paul Allen
-- 2010-07-22T04:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/taiwan-may-try-to-reach-free-trade-accord-with-singapore-negotiator-says.html

          
          
             Taiwan may seek a free-trade accord
with Singapore following its first such deal with China, the
island’s top negotiator with China  Chiang Pin-kung  said.  
 “An agreement with Singapore may be the easiest option
because there are no issues over agricultural exports,” Chiang,
77, chairman of the Taipei-based Straits Exchange Foundation,
said in an interview in Taipei today. “We also hope to sign FTA
with countries in South East Asia and even Japan.”  
 Taiwan signed its first trade accord with China in June,
strengthening commercial ties with the world’s fastest-growing
major economy and the island’s biggest trading partner and
investment destination. Taiwan’s Parliament may pass the
agreement with China next month, Chiang said.  
 Taiwan and China plan to hold the next round of cross-
strait talks in Taiwan in December after the island completes
municipal elections, Chiang said. The two sides aim to sign two
agreements on investment protection and medical cooperation in
the December talks, he added.  
 Separately, Taiwan plans to ease restrictions and let
individual Chinese visit Taiwan in January, Chiang said.
Currently, Taiwan issues visas for Chinese tourist groups, not
individuals.  
 China will study a plan to allow individual tourists to
visit Taiwan,  Shao Qiwei , China’s tourism director said in
Taipei in May when he opened China’s first official tourism
office in Taiwan.  
 Tourists and business people from China to Taiwan may
increase to 1.5 million this year from one million last year,
Chiang said.  
 The island dropped a ban on Chinese tourists in July 2008,
two months after President  Ma Ying-jeou  took office and
abandoned his predecessor’s pro-independence stance.  
 Taiwan and China have been ruled separately since leaders
of Ma’s Nationalist Party fled to Taiwan in 1949 after being
defeated by  Mao Zedong ’s Communists.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        