-- Altria Loses Bid to Set Aside Evidence in 4,000 Florida Sick Smoker Suits
-- Bob Van Voris
-- 2010-07-22T20:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/altria-cigarette-makers-lose-u-s-appeal-affecting-4-000-florida-lawsuits.html

          
          
             Altria Group Inc. ’s Philip Morris
USA unit and other U.S. cigarette makers lost an appeal
affecting about 4,000 Florida smoker suits in federal court.  
 A federal  appeals court  in Atlanta today denied the
companies’ request to block lower courts from applying a 2006
 Florida Supreme Court  decision they claimed deprived them of
fair trials in death and injury suits filed in the state.  
 The companies said that a series of factual conclusions
endorsed by Florida’s highest court in the 2006 “Engle”
decision can’t fairly be used against them in individual
smokers’ trials. The findings included those that cigarette
makers conspired to hide information on smoking’s health effects
and that they made false statements about their products.  
 The federal appeals court reversed a district court’s
pretrial ruling and said the findings “must be given the same
preclusive effect in this federal court case that they would be
given if the case were in state court.”  
 While the ruling limits how the findings can be used, it
permits the federal cases, which were on hold, to go forward.  
 “We’re delighted,” said  Samuel Issacharoff , who argued
the appeal on behalf of the smokers. The ruling reaffirmed that
plaintiffs in federal court will get the benefit of the Engle
findings, he said.  
 The court also said that, because the Engle findings were
so general, the individual smokers may have difficulty applying
them to the facts in their cases. The companies argued that
smokers were trying to apply the findings too broadly to avoid
having to prove their cases.  
 ‘Considerable Task’  
 “We are pleased that the appellate court has rejected
arguments by plaintiffs that they have an automatic and
unlimited right to use the findings,” said  Murray Garnick ,
Altria Client Services senior vice president and associate
general counsel. “In the court’s own words, plaintiffs have a
‘considerable task’ to show with ‘reasonable certainty’ that the
facts they want to establish were ‘actually decided’ by the
prior jury.”  
 Besides the 4,000 cases that were filed or transferred to
federal courts in Florida, another 4,000 are pending in state
courts. Today’s ruling, which doesn’t formally affect any of the
state court cases, may be considered by judges hearing smokers’
claims in Florida courts.  
 Plaintiffs Winning  
 Plaintiffs have won 18 of 21 cases tried in Florida state
courts. In many of those cases, judges simply read the Engle
findings to jurors and told them they were binding. Cigarette
makers are appealing the state-court verdicts against them,
claiming the judges’ improper instructions are responsible for
the companies’ losing record in so-called “Engle progeny”
cases.  
 “None of the plaintiffs who have obtained verdicts in
state court have complied with the requirements set forth by
today’s rulings,” Philip Morris said in its statement.  
 The appeals court today declined to decide whether applying
the Engle findings would violate the companies’ constitutional
due process rights.  
 Florida Law  
 The court said that district courts will have to apply
Florida law and decide what facts in the plaintiffs’ cases are
established by the Engle findings.  
 “The district court’s ruling that ‘the findings may not be
given preclusive effect in any proceeding to establish any
element of an Engle plaintiff’s claim,’ cannot stand, at least
not at this time,” the court said in its ruling today.  
 “We’re actually really pleased with this,” said  Stephanie Parker , a lawyer for  Reynolds American Inc. ’s R.J. Reynolds
Tobacco unit. “We hope the state courts will follow the logic
in this opinion.”  
 Ed Sweda , senior staff attorney with the Tobacco Products
Liability Project, an anti-tobacco group, said his organization
is glad that the appeals court didn’t agree with the lower court
that the Engle findings must be excluded.  
 The Engle case is named after a Florida pediatrician named
 Howard Engle  who was the lead plaintiff in a statewide class
action filed in 1994 on behalf of smokers who were addicted to
nicotine and developed cancer or other smoking-related illnesses
as a result.  
 In the first part of what was intended to be a three-phase
trial, a Miami jury decided a series of common questions
relating to the companies’ conduct and to the health effects of
smoking. In the second phase, the jury awarded $145 billion in
punitive damages to the class.  
 In 2006, the Florida Supreme Court rejected the $145
billion verdict and ruled that the case couldn’t continue as a
class action.  
 At the same time, Florida’s high court upheld most of the
Phase I factual findings and said they would apply in all of the
individual suits filed by smokers who had been part of the Engle
class. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to review the case.  
 The case is Brown v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., No. 08-
16158, 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Atlanta).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        