-- Amazon Misses as Web Spending Weighs on Earnings
-- Joseph Galante
-- 2010-07-23T00:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/amazon-com-misses-estimates-as-web-spending-weighs-on-earnings.html

          
          
             Amazon.com Inc.  forecast third-
quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates after it cut
prices on the Kindle, its best-selling product, and propelled
capital spending to a record.  
 Operating income in the current period will be between $210
million and $310 million, Amazon said in a statement today.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast operating profit of
$361.6 million. Amazon’s second-quarter per-share profit also
missed analysts’ predictions. Shares tumbled in late trading.  
 Under Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos , capital spending
ballooned to $196 million last quarter as Amazon.com built more
warehouses to safeguard a growing array of products that range
from books to car parts. He’s also adding data centers to beef
up a business of providing computing services to companies.  
 “The companies that pulled back in the downturn are now
accelerating their investments,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst
at  BGC Partners LP . He has a sell rating on Amazon.com. “I don’t
think Amazon is focused on any one quarter’s performance.
They’re building for the future.”  
 The jump in capital spending was the largest year-over-year
increase for the second quarter since 2005.  
 The company slashed prices on the Kindle to repel a threat
posed by Apple Inc.’s iPad tablet computer. That may eat into
profit too, said  Sandeep Aggarwal , an analyst at Caris & Co.  
 Amazon.com dropped 15 percent in late trading. It had risen
$2.64 to $120.07 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading, trimming the year-to-date decline to 11 percent.  
 ‘Big Negative’  
 Amazon.com, which gets almost half its  revenue  from outside
North America, was further stung by falling European currencies,
which diminish the value of overseas receipts.  
 “This was a big negative quarter for them,” said
Aggarwal, who’s based in San Francisco and has a “buy” rating
on the shares. “Amazon has been a momentum stock. There was a
big shortfall in the margin side.”  
 Net income rose to $207 million, or 45 cents a share, from
$142 million, or 32 cents, a year ago, the Seattle-based company
said today in a statement. Analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg
expected 54 cents, on average.  
 Second-quarter sales rose to $6.57 billion.  Analysts  had
estimated $6.55 billion. Revenue in the current period will be
between $6.9 billion to $7.63 billion, the company said.
Analysts had estimated $7.17 billion in sales.  
 Kindle, Web Services  
 To move beyond online retailing and vie with Apple’s iPad,
Amazon.com is adding features to the Kindle. Apple said this
week that it has sold 3.27 million iPads since its April
release. That’s bigger than the 3 million Kindles that
Susquehanna Financial Group estimates Amazon.com has sold.  
 This week, Amazon.com said sales of the Kindle and e-books
have accelerated since the iPad’s release. It doesn’t report
Kindle sales, though Caris & Co. estimates that the device will
generate $2.38 billion in revenue this year.  
 Another newer area of growth is Amazon Web Services, AWS, a
business formed in 2006 that lets companies rent, rather than
buy, servers -- the powerful, pricey computers that run
corporate computer networks and websites. In April, Amazon.com
expanded AWS to Singapore to capture business in Asia.  
 “We’re growing very fast,” Amazon.com Chief Financial
Officer  Tom Szkutak  said on a conference call, referring to AWS
and the company’s retail operations. “So we’re adding capacity
to support growth.”  
 By selling an ever-widening range of  products , Amazon.com
is becoming more a barometer of overall consumer sentiment and
deriving less benefit from the broader shift to Internet
purchasing, according to BGC Partners.  
 Quarterly sales growth of 41 percent decelerated from the
46 percent growth in the first three months of the year.
Analysts predict that sales will continue to slow for the rest
of the year, partly a reflection of Amazon.com’s size.  
 “As Amazon broadens its inventory and categories, the
company increasingly becomes a proxy of consumer spending,”
Gillis said. “A slowing consumer is likely to taper growth
across every channel including e-commerce.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joseph Galante  in San Francisco at 
 jgalante3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jeff Bezos, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Amazon.com Inc. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp.'s financial results and outlook.
     Amazon.com, the largest Internet retailer, forecast third-quarter profit that missed analysts' estimates after it cut prices on the Kindle, its best-selling product, and as falling currencies erode overseas sales. Microsoft, the world's largest software maker, reported fourth-quarter profit that topped analysts' estimates after customers purchased more personal computers running the Windows operating system. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
