-- Hamptons Home Sales Double as Wall Street Buyers Fuel Rebound
-- Ashley Lutz
-- 2010-07-22T15:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/hamptons-home-sales-surge-as-wall-street-money-spurs-beach-retreat-demand.html

          
          
             Hamptons, New York, home sales more
than doubled in the second quarter from a year earlier,
solidifying a turnaround after two years of Wall Street
reluctance to splurge on beachfront property.  
 Transactions climbed to 479 in the towns on Long Island’s
East End, the second-biggest jump in at least a decade of record
keeping. Larger, more expensive homes boosted the median price
17 percent to $900,000, New York-based appraiser  Miller Samuel
Inc.  and broker  Prudential Douglas Elliman  Real Estate said in a
report today. The largest sales rise was in the first quarter.  
 “We’ve returned to a more normal volume of sales,” said
 Jonathan Miller , president of Miller Samuel. “It feels like a
boom because there was such a void in activity a year ago.”  
 A U.S. stock market recovery helped ignite confidence, said
 Judi Desiderio , president of Hamptons, New York-based  Town &
Country Real Estate . The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index gained 29
percent from the beginning of 2009’s second quarter through the
end of June this year. New York City financial companies added
jobs for a fourth straight month in June, helping bring the
unemployment rate down to 9.5 percent. Gains included 2,400
finance jobs, according to the state  Labor Department .  
 “Wall Street is employed again,” Desiderio said.
“They’ve had some winnings or earnings from the market and
they’re putting it into real estate.”  
 Blankfein, Stewart  
 The Hamptons, a string of towns beginning about 75 miles
(120 kilometers) east of Manhattan on Long Island’s south side,
attract financial and Hollywood celebrities including Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. Chairman  Lloyd Blankfein  and media mogul  Martha Stewart  each summer.  
 With the average price of Hamptons properties down 24
percent from the 2007 peak, sellers are getting more realistic,
said Paul Brennan, Hamptons regional manager for Prudential
Douglas Elliman.  
 A four-bedroom house in Sagaponack with waterfront views
was on the market for $8.9 million for more than a year when the
sellers cut the price to $5.2 million. It sold within weeks to a
retired investment banker, Brennan said.  
 “As a broker, I could say, here’s a good house, a good
location and now a good price,” he said.  
 Sellers shaved an average of 6 percent off their asking
prices in the quarter compared with 16 percent in the same
period a year earlier.  
 The number of properties for sale declined 5.9 percent to
1,564, Miller said.  
 Demand Shifting  
 Town & Country issued its own Hamptons report this month
and also said Hamptons sales doubled. Those records showed the
median price fell 2.6 percent to $925,000.  
 “Demand for the 10,000-square-foot house with the pool,
tennis and the putting green has shifted,” Desiderio said.
“People want manageable properties.”  
 Luxury sales throughout the Hamptons and Long Island’s
North Fork climbed to 58 properties, an increase of 57 percent
from a year earlier, Miller Samuel and Prudential said.  
 Miller defines luxury as the top ten percent of all sales,
a category that included properties sold for $3 million or more
in the second quarter. Those transactions accounted for 40
percent of the dollar volume of sales, Miller said.  
 “It shows you how important the high-end market is,”
Miller said. “You can’t approach recovery until the high end
sees activity.”  
 The median luxury price climbed 3 percent to $4.1 million.  
 Bridgehampton, East Hampton  
 Sales increased in all 11 towns and villages that Town &
Country includes in its Hamptons analysis. In Bridgehampton,
home sales more than doubled to 42 transactions, while the
median price of those sales dropped 43 percent to $2.29 million.
Southampton Area deals jumped to 41 homes from 17 a year
earlier. The median price declined 2.2 percent to $905,000.  
 In the  East Hampton  area, which includes Wainscott, 94
homes changed hands, compared with 37 a year earlier. The median
price for East Hampton transactions rose 25 percent to $810,000.  
 Roland Chemtob, a part-time developer and start-up investor
in the Hamptons, saw the market change through the prism of his
latest East Hampton project.  
 He put the four-bedroom home on Horse Meadow Lane up for
sale in 2009 for $2 million, declined a lower offer and rented
it out through January of this year. In May, a buyer from one of
the “Big Four” accounting firms offered him $2.35 million.  
 It was two weeks too late: Chemtob and his family had moved
into the house after razing their own to  build  a new one.  
 “They were crying,” said Chemtob, 44. He also said he
thinks the latest sales numbers mean the slump has turned. He’s
in contract to buy three parcels of land.  
 “I’m relieved,” he said. “I’m betting the market gets
better.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ashley Lutz  in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “We’ve returned to a more normal volume of sales,” said Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel. Photographer: Adam Rountree/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Hamptons, New York, home sales more than doubled in the second quarter from a year earlier, solidifying a turnaround after two years of Wall Street reluctance to splurge on beachfront property. Bloomberg's Gigi Stone reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
