-- Amundi Japan, Nomura Start Fishery Fund in August on Rising Seafood Demand
-- Makiko Asai
-- 2010-07-22T05:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/amundi-japan-nomura-to-start-fishery-fund-betting-on-rising-fish-demand.html

          
          
             Amundi Japan Ltd.  and Nomura
Holdings Inc. plan to introduce a fishery fund next month,
betting that changes in dietary habits in emerging nations and
consumers’ health concerns will boost global demand for fish.  
 “Fishery is a growing industry globally, although it’s not
recognized as such in Japan,”  Naoyuki Hamada , senior executive
officer at Amundi Japan, said in a telephone interview today.
“Considering the demand for fish, profits of fisheries are not
easily influenced by broader economic trends.”  
 Global fish consumption per person increased to 17.0
kilograms in 2007 from 11.5 kilograms in 1980, according to the
United Nation’s  Food & Agriculture Organization . Global total
production of fish, crustaceans and molluscs reached 140 million
tons in 2007, compared with 71.9 million tons in 1980, the FAO
said.  
 The portfolio of the world’s first mutual fund focused on
global fishery-related stocks will initially consist of 40 to 70
stocks of companies involved in fishing, aqua-culture, fishing
equipment and restaurants, said Hamada.  Nomura  will start
selling the fund on Aug. 9 and Amundi will begin operating it on
Aug. 20.  
 Nippon Suisan Kaisha Ltd. and China Fishery Group Ltd.,
aqua-farming company Marine Harvest ASA and feed processor
Nutreco NV are among companies the fund will consider investing
in, Hamada said.  Jarden Corp. , which sells fishing tools, and
Kappa Create Co., a sushi restaurant operator, may also be
targets, he said.  
 Amundi Japan, established after the merger of asset
management companies from Credit Agricole S.A. and Societe
Generale, manages 3 trillion yen ($34.7 billion) as of July 1.
 Christian Romeyer , president of Amundi Japan, said yesterday the
company aims to boost its assets to $50 billion in three years.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Asai  in Tokyo at 
 masai@bloomberg.net ;
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        