-- Anadarko Plans to Meet With BP to Avoid Oil Spill Cost Dispute Litigation
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/anadarko-plans-to-meet-with-bp-to-avoid-oil-spill-cost-dispute-litigation.html

          
          
             Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , the Texas
oil company that owns a stake in  BP Plc ’s damaged well, said it
plans to meet with its partners on the project to try to settle
a dispute over spill-related costs without going to court.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Jim Hackett  said he expects
“productive meetings” with BP to occur at the appropriate time,
according to testimony prepared for a Senate subcommittee
hearing today. MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC, a third partner, also
would be part of the discussions, Anadarko’s Hackett said.  
 An explosion struck the Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico
on April 20, triggering the worst oil spill in U.S. history. BP
operated the project with a 65 percent interest, while Anadarko
has 25 percent and MOEX Offshore, a unit of Japan’s  Mitsui Oil
Exploration Co. , the remaining 10 percent. Anadarko on June 18
said BP’s actions caused the spill, and both Anadarko and MOEX
Offshore have said they are withholding payments of spill costs.  
 “Under the joint operating agreement, no party is required
to pay any costs or damages to the operator to the extent that
they are incurred as a result of the operator’s gross negligence
or willful misconduct,” Hackett said in his testimony.  
 BP has said responsible parties should live up to their
obligations and that it’s evaluating its options. An agreement
among the partners calls for arbitration to resolve the
disagreement.  Fadel Gheit , an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co.
in New York, has estimated that spill costs may reach $60
billion.  
 MOEX Offshore  
 Naoki Ishii , president of MOEX Offshore, and  Kenneth Feinberg , administrator of a Gulf claims fund, also are
scheduled to speak today before the Senate Subcommittee on
Federal Financial Management, Government Information, Federal
Services and International Security.  
 Ishii said in prepared testimony that government approvals
for  BP’s  drilling plan were in place and operations had started
when MOEX Offshore invested in the project.  
 “Offshore placed confidence in BP’s expertise and
experience in drilling deep-water wells in the Gulf,” Ishii
said, adding that his company had no reason to doubt the
“sufficiency or competency” of the plan. He said MOEX Offshore
didn’t seek to influence BP’s operational decisions.  
 A MOEX Offshore spokesman previously said the company was
reviewing BP’s claims and was withholding reimbursements except
for those unrelated to the spill.  
 Ishii said MOEX Offshore is relinquishing its right to oil
captured from the well, and  Anadarko  has said it would donate to
charities and civic groups any revenue it’s entitled to from
clean-up efforts.  
 Anadarko’s Obligations  
 Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, is committed to
meeting its obligations under the Oil Pollution Act, Hackett
said. He said the company agreed, in a letter sent to the
Justice Department, to provide advance notice of substantial
cash or asset transfers from Anadarko that aren’t part of the
ordinary course of business.  
 Hackett said he agrees with the government approach of
dealing with BP as the primary responsible party and expects
that company to continue to honor its commitment to pay all
legitimate claims.  
 The operator of a well sets the planning and execution and
is responsible for day-to-day activities, Hackett said. “I am
sure you agree that it would be impractical to drill a well by
committee,” he said.  
 Hackett said non-operating investors received operational
updates, budget documents and drilling reports that didn’t have
the information necessary to analyze  BP ’s decisions in real
time. He said the industry needs to learn from the disaster and
get back to work in the region.  
 Feinberg, speaking yesterday to the House Judiciary
Committee, said victims of the oil spill might be paid for
claims that may be deemed ineligible for a court hearing. He
said decisions on claims will be based on federal and state laws,
while in some cases he said his determination might exceed case
laws used by courts to determine damages.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        