-- ArcelorMittal South Africa Reviewing Surcharge on Steel After Iron Accord
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-22T11:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/arcelormittal-south-africa-reviewing-surcharge-on-steel-after-iron-accord.html

          
          
             ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd.  said
it’s reviewing its decision to impose a surcharge on steel
products after reaching an interim supply agreement with Anglo
American Plc’s  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd.  for deliveries of iron ore.  
 “We will be informing our customers soon,” Kumba
spokesman  Julian Gwillim  said by mobile phone today, declining
to comment further.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa introduced the charge from the
start of May after Kumba, which supplies two-thirds of its ore
needs, canceled a nine-year-old accord that gave it iron ore, a
steelmaking ingredient, at 3 percent above production costs.  
 The surcharge was intended to cover higher ore costs while
a dispute over the canceled contract is resolved in arbitration.
The charge would be reimbursed to customers if the steelmaker is
successful in its bid to stop Kumba canceling the contract,
ArcelorMittal South Africa has said.  
 The companies today agreed on an interim supply agreement
which will see the steelmaker pay $50 a metric ton for ore
supplied to its mill on South Africa’s coast and $70 a ton for
deliveries to its two inland mills.  
 “It’s certainly possible” that the Vanderbijlpark-based
steelmaker will cancel the levy, said  Abri du Plessis , chief
investment officer of Gryphon Asset Management Ltd., by phone
from Cape Town.  
 South Africa’s Competition Commission said on July 5 that
it started a “preliminary” investigation into the charge after
the government referred the case to the watchdog because of
concern that the company was abusing its dominant position.
ArcelorMittal South Africa supplies about 70 percent of the
country’s steel needs.  
 ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, owns  46.8
percent  of ArcelorMittal South Africa, while Anglo American owns
 63 percent  of Kumba.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        