-- Argentine Yields Jump From 10-Year Low Versus Venezuela on Rising Payments
-- Drew Benson
-- 2010-07-22T20:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/argentine-yields-jump-from-10-year-low-versus-venezuela-on-rising-payments.html

          
          
             Argentine dollar bond yields
relative to Venezuela’s are rising, narrowing the gap from the
widest in a decade, as investors bet President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  will have more difficulty than her
counterpart Hugo Chavez in meeting debt payments next year.  
 Argentine  dollar bonds  yielded an average 10.74 percent
yesterday, 376 basis points, or 3.76 percentage points, less
than the rate on  Venezuelan debt , according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI+ index. The difference swelled to 412 on July 7 as
Argentina’s Fernandez restructured $12.9 billion of defaulted
debt, pushing yields lower.  
 While the debt swap may bolster Argentina’s access to
international capital markets, the country faces increased debt
payments, owing about $10 billion in dollar bond payments in
2011, more than triple the $3 billion that Venezuela must pay,
according to Credit Suisse.  
 “Over time, that spread should come in, based on the
challenging financing schedule that Argentina faces in the next
couple of years,”  Bret Rosen , an analyst at Standard Chartered
Bank in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The widening
of the spread gap is a bit exaggerated because the upcoming
amortization schedule for Venezuela is not particularly
onerous.”  
 2001 Default  
 The 412 basis-point yield difference was the widest since
2000, a year before Argentina defaulted on $95 billion of bonds.
The gap swelled as Chavez, 55, tightened restrictions on access
to foreign currency, pushing yields higher, while the debt
exchange by Fernandez, 57, sparked speculation Argentina will
attract more foreign capital. In April 2009, Venezuelan debt
yielded 512 basis points less than Argentine bonds.  
 Since the difference between the two countries’ bonds
peaked July 7, the average yield on Argentina’s dollar debt has
fallen 45 basis points to 10.74 percent, versus an 80 basis
point decline to 14.5 percent for the equivalent Venezuelan
securities.  
 Venezuela is South America’s largest oil producer.  
 “In terms of payment capacity, in Venezuela it’s huge, so
it’s not a problem,”  Igor Arsenin , a debt strategist with
Credit Suisse AG in New York, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “In the case of Argentina, the problem is
liquidity.”  
 Crude oil, which accounts for about 95 percent of
Venezuelan exports and half of government revenue, climbed 3.6
percent today to $79.30 a barrel after touching a six-week
closing low of $71.98 on July 6. Venezuela has the highest
borrowing costs among the 15 countries in JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index
at 11.5 percentage points over U.S. Treasuries, while Argentina
has the third-highest at 7 percentage points, following Ecuador.  
 Creditor Lawsuits  
 Venezuela is rated B2 by Moody’s Investors Service, or one
level above Argentina. Standard & Poor’s rates Venezuela BB-, or
three steps higher.  
 Fernandez’s restructuring last month lifted total creditor
participation since the government default in 2001 to above 90
percent. That may not be enough to allow the government to avoid
lawsuits by holdout creditors if it tries to sell international
bonds, Rosen said. Economy Minister Amado Boudou said June 23
that $4.5 billion worth of defaulted bonds remain in the hands
of creditors pursuing litigation after the latest swap.  
 Argentina “has no access to the market, so it’s always
struggling to meet its needs,” Arsenin said.  
 The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 32 basis points
yesterday to 881, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 ‘Political Noise’  
 The peso was little changed today at 3.9323 per dollar.
Yields on Argentina’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2015 slid 43
basis points to 10.92 percent, according to pricing from
Deutsche Bank AG. The price rose 1.5 cents on the dollar to 87
cents, the highest since March. Warrants linked to economic
growth rose 0.4 cents on the dollar to 9.3 cents.  
 Both Argentina and Venezuela are benefiting from a
resurgence of investor appetite for higher-yielding emerging
market bonds in recent weeks, said  Jim Craige , who helps manage
$12 billion of emerging-market debt at Stone Harbor in New York.  
 “It’s a little bit easier right now to buy Argentina
because it has less political noise tacked on to it than
Venezuela has,” Craige said.  
 Chavez said on July 20 the government will obtain a
minority stake in opposition television station network
Globovision after seizing more than 20 companies held by one of
the network’s owners during the past month.  
 Credit Suisse maintained “overweight” recommendations for
both Argentina and Venezuela in a monthly debt strategy report
released last week.  
 “We expect only gradual tightening of Venezuelan spreads
to Argentina,” Arsenin wrote in the report. “And Venezuela is
likely to outperform only in a global risk-on environment.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Benson  in Buenos Aires at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Argentina's president Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
