-- Arizona Law Aimed at Illegal U.S. Immigrants Questioned by Federal Judge
-- Emily Heller
-- 2010-07-22T23:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/arizona-law-aimed-at-illegal-u-s-immigrants-questioned-by-federal-judge.html

          
          
             A U.S. judge is deliberating whether
to bar Arizona from enforcing a law aimed at cracking down on
illegal immigrants after hearing challenges from the federal
government and  the American Civil Liberties Union .  
 U.S. District Judge  Susan Bolton  in Phoenix heard arguments
in two separate hearings today where Arizona argued the
challenges should be thrown out. She hasn’t said when she will
rule.  
 The ACLU claims the measure would allow unconstitutional
racial profiling by police and is seeking an order barring
enforcement, while the Justice Department argued that Arizona
has no right to regulate immigration under the U.S.
Constitution.  
 “The regulation of immigration is unquestionably,
exclusively a federal power,” said  Edwin Kneedler , an attorney
for the Justice Department. “What the state has done here” is
“to adopt its own immigration enforcement policy.”  
 The Arizona statute makes it a state crime to be in the
U.S. illegally. It requires local police officers who come in
contact with someone for a law enforcement reason to check the
individual’s immigration status if they suspect the person lacks
proper documentation.  
 The law is a response to the federal government’s failure
to help Arizona deal with an influx of illegal immigrants, the
state claims. Arizona’s attorneys said the state’s policies are
intended to assist the U.S. in meeting its goal of curbing
illegal immigration.  
 ‘Can’t Catch Them’  
 “You can’t catch them if you don’t know about them,”  John Bouma , an attorney for the state said.  
 Bolton interrupted the attorneys with questions throughout
the hearings, saying she wanted to be sure to deal with the
specifics “provision by provision.”  
 “Why can’t Arizona be as inhospitable as they wish to
people who have entered or remain in the United States
illegally?” Bolton asked at one point.  
 Earlier today, Bouma said the ACLU’s suit should be
dismissed because the group has shown no “actual or imminent
harm.” The ACLU’s “declarations are rife with conjecture and
hypotheticals,” he said.  
 Arizona has called the law “reasonable and
constitutional.” U.S. policies have left the state “under
attack” from Mexican drug and immigrant-smuggling cartels,
Governor  Jan Brewer  said this month. Brewer attended the hearing
on the Justice Department’s claim today, sitting a row behind
her state’s lawyers.  
 ‘Irreparable Harm’  
 Barring the state from proceeding with the law would
“inflict significant and tangible, irreparable harm” to
Arizona, the state wrote. In addition, the ACLU’s lawsuit is
unlikely to succeed on its merits, the state claimed.  
 Bouma urged the judge to ignore speculation that the law
could prompt roundups of everybody in the state who looks like
they might be Hispanic. “Look around, that would be
impossible,” Bouma said, looking over the crowded courtroom as
other spectators watched a closed-circuit screen in an overflow
room.  
 The bill doesn’t allow racial profiling or discrimination,
Brewer said when she signed it in April.  
 The NAACP disagrees, and alleges the statute infringes the
free-speech rights of day laborers in the state. The plaintiffs
also claim it will hinder law-enforcement efforts by making
people less likely to attend community meetings or come forward
to report crimes “because their appearance, limited English
ability, and accents could be used by the police to question
their authorization to be in the United States,” according to
the complaint filed in May.  
 Class-Action Sought  
 The NAACP, like the U.S., also argues that the Arizona law
interferes with federal power and authority over immigration
matters in violation of the U.S. Constitution.  
 The lawsuit seeks to represent labor, domestic-violence,
day-labor, human-services and social-justice organizations in a
class action. In addition, the complaint names 10 individuals
who allegedly would be subject to harassment or arrest.  
 President  Barack Obama  has said overhauling immigration law
is one of his highest priorities. In 2007, Congress failed in an
attempt to rewrite immigration legislation for the first time in
20 years.  
 Obama said in April that lawmakers may lack the
“appetite” to try again. Democratic leaders are focusing on
measures to improve border security before addressing the 11
million undocumented immigrants now in the U.S.  
 Almost three-quarters of Americans support provisions
requiring people to produce documents verifying they are in the
U.S. legally, according to a May poll by the Washington-based
Pew Research Center for the People & the Press.  
 The cases are is United States of America v. State of
Arizona, 2:10cv1413, and Friendly House v. Whiting, 10cv1061,
U.S. District Court for Arizona (Phoenix).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William McQuillen  in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net ;
 Emily Heller  in Phoenix.  
          
          


  


        