-- Mark Cuban Is Cleared to Bid on Texas Rangers by Major League Baseball
-- Thomas Korosec
-- 2010-07-22T20:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/mark-cuban-is-cleared-to-bid-on-texas-rangers-by-major-league-baseball.html

          
          
             Mark Cuban , the billionaire owner of
the National Basketball Association’s Dallas Mavericks, was
cleared by Major League Baseball to bid on the bankrupt Texas
Rangers, his lawyer said.  
 Any approval for Cuban was preliminary and whoever wins the
auction still needs to gain the support of the 30 MLB team
owners to complete the sale,  Thomas Lauria , an attorney for a
competing group of bidders, said in an interview.  
 Cuban, a co-founder of the TV network HDNet, hasn’t decided
whether to join two other bidders who qualified to participate
in an Aug. 4 auction, said his attorney,  Clifton R. Jessup Jr.   
 “The biggest obstacle my client has is we have 12 days to
do all the due diligence,” Jessup said today during a
bankruptcy court hearing in Fort Worth, Texas.  
 A group led by club President  Nolan Ryan  and Pittsburgh
sports attorney  Chuck Greenberg  will act as the lead bidder.
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  D. Michael Lynn  today refused to delay the
auction, rejecting claims by lenders owed more than $400 million
that it is rigged in favor of the Ryan-Greenberg group.  
 The lenders wanted to put off an auction until Sept. 30 so
more bidders could vie for the team, potentially driving up the
price, their attorney,  Andrew M. Leblanc , said in court today.  
 Jessup said Cuban only decided to pursue the team after
Lynn approved rules last week setting up the auction. Cuban, who
would prefer to submit his own bid, may join with an existing
group to speed the process, Jessup said.  
 Rival Bidders  
 Houston businessman  Jim Crane , who unsuccessfully bid for
the team before its bankruptcy, and Dallas businessman Jeff
Beck, have also been approved by baseball officials to
participate in the auction, MLB attorney Sander L. Esserman said
in court last week.  
 Cuban is concerned about a lawsuit filed as part of the
bankruptcy case by  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  over who owns the lease
for Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, Texas, Jessup said in court.
The bank, acting as agent for lenders, claimed the baseball team
breached the terms of a loan by taking over the lease.  
 Transferring the lease to Texas Rangers Baseball Partners
made it harder for lenders to collect at least $411 million owed
by the team’s owner,  Tom Hicks ’s HSG Sports Group LLC, JPMorgan
said in the lawsuit filed July 16. The bank asked the judge to
return the lease to the control of an affiliate of Texas Rangers
Baseball.  
 $500 Million Deal  
 After filing for bankruptcy in May, the Rangers sought
court permission to sell the club to the group led by Ryan, a
Hall of Fame pitcher, and Greenberg in a transaction valued at
more than $500 million.  
 After the auction, Lynn will consider approving the
company’s bankruptcy exit plan, which details how the money
generated from a sale would pay creditors.  
 At the start of today’s hearing, Rangers’ manager Ron
Washington told Lynn that morale among the players is
“unbelievably exceptional.” The team holds first place in the
American League’s Western Division with less than half the
regular season left to play.  
 A playoff run could bring the team an additional
$14 million, Ryan said in court yesterday.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners,
10-43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas
(Fort Worth).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steven Church  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Korosec  in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  
          
          


  


        