-- Harper May Reconsider Canada Census Changes After Chief Statistician Quits
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/harper-may-reconsider-canada-census-changes-after-chief-statistician-quits.html

          
          
             The resignation of Canada’s chief
statistician amid a dispute over changes to the 2011 census may
lead Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  to reconsider the plan or
risk undermining the agency’s reputation, economists and
historians said.  
 Munir Sheikh , the head of Statistics Canada and a career
bureaucrat who helped eliminate Canada’s deficits during the
1990s, said last night he was resigning and added that a
voluntary survey, as the government plans, can’t be a substitute
for the mandatory portion of the country’s census.  
 The government’s proposal “violates all known laws of
statistics,” said Kevin Milligan, an associate professor of
economics at the University of British Columbia. “There is the
potential here for the minister to damage the hard-earned global
reputation of Statistics Canada” if they replace Sheikh with
someone who moves ahead with a voluntary survey, he said.  
 Canada’s three opposition parties are against the decision
to make voluntary a detailed questionnaire portion of the census,
and have  enough votes  to topple the Conservative administration,
or change laws if they join forces. Parliament’s  Industry
Committee  will hold hearings next week to hear from groups
including economists and academics who say keeping the current
procedure is needed to get accurate results.  
 The government has said Canada’s next census, to be taken
in May 2011, won’t include a mandatory long-form questionnaire
such as the one that had previously been sent to a fifth of
households. Instead, Statistics Canada  will  send a voluntary
form covering most of the same topics as the previous form as
part of a new National Household Survey.  
 Reason for Leaving  
 In a  statement  posted on Statistics Canada’s website,
Sheikh said the reason for his departure was over a dispute
about “whether a voluntary survey can become a substitute for a
mandatory census.”  
 “It cannot,” Sheikh said. “Under the circumstances, I
have tendered my resignation to the prime minister.”  
 The resignation is a “shock,” because “that just doesn’t
happen very often in Canada,” said Norman Hillmer, a history
professor at Carleton University. “If I were advising the prime
minister I would tell him to take a good, hard look at this.”  
 “The government is probably in a position it never wanted
to be in,” said  Nik Nanos  of the Nanos Research polling company.
“This will likely have an impact on the reputation of the
government.”  
 Could Seek Review  
 Harper could seek a review of the decision to defuse the
tension, Nanos said. “It’s possible for the prime minister to
intervene and it’s much easier now that the head of StatsCan has
stepped down.”  
 “I acknowledge with regret the resignation,” Industry
Minister  Tony Clement , the minister responsible for Ottawa-based
Statistics Canada, said in an e-mailed statement, adding
assistant chief statistician  Wayne Smith  will replace Sheikh on
an interim basis.  
 “It is not appropriate to compel citizens to divulge how
many bedrooms they have in their houses, or what time they leave
for work in the morning,” Clement said in the statement. “The
government’s approach is about finding a better balance between
collecting necessary data and protecting the privacy rights of
Canadians.”  
 The  long form  part of the 2006 census included questions on
ethnicity, employment, income, languages spoken at home,
education and other topics.  
 Rationale  
 The opposition Liberal Party has said they would seek to
amend the  Statistics Act  when Parliament reconvenes in September
to make the questionnaire mandatory again. The Liberal Party’s
house leader,  Ralph Goodale , said yesterday that next week’s
Industry Committee hearings would give the government “an
opportunity to present its rationale, whatever it may be, and
other Canadians who believe that this is important will have
their opportunity to demonstrate what the stakes are on their
side.”  
 “When you don’t have a commitment for honest research and
the integrity of data, anything is possible,” Charlie Angus, a
lawmaker with the New Democratic Party, said in an interview.
“We really need hearings on this, because we’re not dealing
with a mature government.”  
 Angus said it was “impossible” for Sheikh to stay at the
helm of the agency after the government began “trashing” its
reputation by implying it was spying on citizens.  
 First Census  
 “We supported the previous system because it provided
Canadian businesses with accurate statistical data to use in
their planning,” Kathryn Anderson, director of communications
with the  Canadian Chamber of Commerce , said in an e-mail. “If
the government proceeds to make completion of the long form
voluntary, we will want to see what measures it will implement
to ensure that the data generated by the census are
comprehensive and reliable.”  
 Canada’s  first census  was in 1666 in what was then the
colony of New France, when Jean Talon counted 3,215 residents
mostly by going door to door himself. Talon asked about their
age, sex, marital status and occupation. He helped arrange to
have women sent over from France after finding men outnumbered
women by nearly two to one. Statistics Canada today has a
building at its headquarters named after Talon.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        