-- Harvard Endowment Manager Balcells Resigns to Join Rogge Global Partners
-- Gillian Wee
-- 2010-07-22T16:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/harvard-endowment-manager-balcells-resigns-to-join-rogge-global-partners.html

          
          
             Francesc Balcells  resigned from the
endowment of Harvard University, the world’s richest college,
where he was the last trader at a foreign-exchange group started
by  Mohamed El-Erian , now chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co.  
 Balcells, 39, started this month as head of emerging
markets for Rogge Global Partners Plc, a London-based manager of
 $37 billion  in global bond funds, he said today in an interview.
He spent four years at the International Monetary Fund, with a
one-year assignment at Pimco, before coming to Boston-based
Harvard Management Co. in 2006 when it was run by El-Erian.  
 Balcells’ exit comes two months after the departure of  Stan Zuzic , one of Harvard’s top-paid endowment managers, who joined
BGI, a Kirkland, Washington-based firm that oversees investments
for  Bill Gates , chairman of Microsoft Corp., and his charitable
foundation.  Jane Mendillo , the endowment’s chief executive
officer since July 2008, has reshuffled staff, promoting bond
manager  Stephen Blyth  to head Harvard’s internal investment team
and expand it last year.  
 “Everything went very well,” Balcells, a native of Spain,
said in a telephone interview. “I wanted to be closer to my
family. The opportunity came along. It’s a great firm.”  
 John Longbrake , a spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based Harvard University, said he couldn’t immediately comment.  
 University Endowment  
 El-Erian, who was Harvard Management’s CEO from February
2006 to December 2007 before rejoining Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco in January 2008, hired  Karen Parker Feld 
of Wellington Management Co. to head the endowment’s foreign-
exchange group. She left as Mendillo came aboard.  
 The university’s endowment dropped a record 30 percent to
$26 billion in the year ended June 30, 2009, as investments fell
27 percent. Following the loss, Mendillo reduced the influence
of independent firms that oversee two-thirds of the fund.  
 Mendillo fired about 50 employees last year and hired
hedge-fund executives  Emil Dabora  and  Mark McKenna  from Caxton
Associates LLC and  Michele Toscani , a former managing director
for Fortress Investment Group LLC in Tokyo. She named  Neil Mason 
chief risk officer in January.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gillian Wee  in New York at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        