-- Asian Stocks to `Surprise' on Growth Outlook, Nomura Asset's Muirhead Says
-- Jonathan Burgos
-- 2010-07-22T23:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/asian-stocks-to-surprise-on-growth-outlook-nomura-asset-s-muirhead-says.html

          
          
             Asian equities may “surprise on the
upside” in the second half because the global economy is likely
to avoid a recession, according to Nomura Asset Management Co.  
 Economic growth in emerging markets including China will
counter any slowdown in the U.S. and Europe, helping to boost
Asian equities, said  Graham Muirhead , Singapore-based head of
investment for the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan at Nomura
Asset. His firm, which holds $12 billion in Asian equities, is a
unit of Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest brokerage.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  declined 9.7
percent in the three months to June 30, its worst quarterly
performance since the fourth quarter of 2008, as Europe’s debt
crisis and China’s steps to curb property prices fueled concern
global economic growth will slow. Speculation the U.S. economy
will contract intensified as reports pointed to a retreat in
manufacturing and home sales.  
 “We’re predicting growth to slow this year but not a
double dip,” Muirhead said in a July 21 interview. “The
markets will probably go higher than people expect.”  
 The International Monetary Fund raised its forecast for
global growth this year, due in part to faster expansions in
Brazil, China and India. The world economy will expand 4.6
percent in 2010, the biggest gain since 2007, compared with an
April projection of 4.2 percent, the Washington-based fund said
in revisions on July 7 to its World Economic Outlook.  
 ‘Surprisingly Strong’  
 Reports this month showed exports from China, Thailand and
Taiwan increased in June, suggesting that slowing economic
growth in the U.S. and Europe’s debt crisis failed to dampen
overseas demand. China’s exports surged to a record in June,
supported by shipments to Brazil, Russia, the U.S. and Europe.
Chinese demand also help boost exports from Thailand and Taiwan,
according to government data released this week.  
 “Economic growth continues to be surprisingly strong in
the region,” Muirhead said. “The de-coupling that we’ve almost
given up on appears to be gathering some force.”  
 The fund manager said he’s favoring Hong Kong-based
companies with investments in China, as well as South Korean
consumer stocks and Taiwanese technology companies that sell
their products to Chinese customers. He declined to name
specific companies.  
 The IMF expects China’s economy, the world’s third biggest,
to grow 10.5 percent this year and 9.6 percent in 2011. China’s
 economic expansion  eased to 10.3 percent in the second quarter
from growth of 11.9 percent in the January-March period as the
government introduced lending curbs to cool property prices.  
 The decline in Asian equities in the previous three months
has dragged  valuations  for the MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan
index to 12.8 times estimated earnings, compared with 18 times
at the beginning of the year.  
 “The period of consolidation is close to over and we will
see a rise in markets in the second half,” Muirhead said.
“Valuations are quite attractive as prices have come down and
earnings have gone up, so forward-looking price-earnings ratios
look reasonably attractive.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Burgos  in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Ka Chung Law, chief economist and strategist at the Hong Kong branch of Bank of Communications Ltd., China's fifth-biggest lender, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about his outlook for the Hong Kong stock market and global economy.
     Hong Kong stocks dipped on Friday after the U.S. reported manufacturing declined, heightening concern an economic recovery may falter. (Source: Bloomberg)
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
