-- Asia Currencies Erase Losses as Hynix Earnings Bolster Investor Confidence
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-22T09:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/asian-currencies-drop-on-concern-u-s-economic-woes-to-sap-export-growth.html

          
          
             Asian currencies recovered from
earlier losses as record earnings at Hynix Semiconductor Inc.
countered concern a U.S. slowdown will hurt exports.  
 Hynix, the world’s second-largest computer-memory chipmaker,
said the rebound in computer demand that helped Intel Corp. and
Samsung Electronics Co. post higher earnings will stay “robust”
this year. Regional currencies weakened earlier across most of
the region’s developing economies after Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said the economic outlook in the U.S. remains
“unusually uncertain.”  
 “Hynix’s earnings results boosted the outlook for the
country’s earnings season,” said Sung Jae Man, a currency
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Co Ltd. in Seoul. “That’s
helped foreigners buy shares, even though Bernanke’s comments
spurred risk-off sentiment this morning.”  
 The won closed at 1,204 per dollar in Seoul, from 1,204.50
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Taiwan
dollar slipped 0.12 percent to NT$32.19 and Singapore’s dollar
was 0.14 percent weaker at S$1.3728 as of 4:47 p.m. local time,
the biggest fluctuations among the region’s 10 most-actively
traded currencies excluding the yen.  
 Hynix’s second-quarter operating profit was 1.05 trillion
($872 million), compared with a loss of 211 billion won a year
earlier, the company said in a statement today. Revenue jumped
96 percent to a record 3.28 trillion won.  
 Slowing Demand  
 The  MSCI  Asia-Pacific Index of shares retreated 0.1 percent
after Bernanke’s comments fueled concern demand for the region’s
exports will slow should the global recovery falter.  
 The Philippine peso fell 0.05 percent to 46.50 per dollar.
Demand for the nation’s electronics exports may ease starting in
the third quarter, Semiconductor and Electronics Industries of
the Philippines Inc. President Ernesto Santiago said last week.  
 Shipments of electronics goods account for more than half
of Philippine exports, and the U.S. buys more than 16 percent of
the nation’s overall shipments.  
 “The outlook for the U.S.-led global economy has darkened
following Bernanke’s remarks,” said  Satoshi Okagawa , head of
the foreign exchange and money trading group in Singapore at
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
bank by market value. “Risk aversion prevails, with emerging
currencies being sold.”  
 Bernanke said the Fed is prepared “to take further policy
actions as needed” to lift growth in the U.S., commenting
before reports today that are forecast to show initial jobless
claims increased and existing  home sales  dropped.  
 Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah traded at 9,058 per dollar,
from 9,063 yesterday, and the Thai baht gained 0.03 percent to
32.29. Malaysia’s ringgit rose 0.08 percent to 3.2135.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yumi Teso  in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Yoon in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        