-- Asia Funds Bid for $238 Million Colonial First State Industrial Portfolio
-- Nichola Saminather
-- 2010-07-22T23:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/asia-funds-bid-for-238-million-colonial-first-state-industrial-portfolio.html

          
          
             Sovereign wealth funds, Australian
property trusts and institutional buyers from Asia are among
bidders for the A$270 million ($238 million) industrial property
portfolio being sold by  Colonial First State , the asset
management arm of  Commonwealth Bank of Australia .  
 Some offers are for the entire  portfolio , which includes 13
income-producing properties and two development sites, said
 Darren Steinberg , who manages about A$17 billion as head of
property at Sydney-based Colonial. Steinberg declined to
identify the bidders.  
 “When we announced the fund was being wound up, we
received several approaches from both on- and off-shore parties
looking to buy the portfolio as a whole,” Steinberg said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It’s a good portfolio to either
bolt on to an existing portfolio or to get you started in the
industrial market in Australia.”  
 Colonial is exiting its investment in industrial properties
after the term of the fund holding the assets ended.  
 The first round of bids for Colonial’s industrial
properties will end in mid-August, with a short-list being
announced soon after if the offers reflect the market value of
the entire portfolio, Steinberg said. If not, it will seek to
sell the properties individually over the next two years.  
 Colonial will also create more funds over the next two
years, Steinberg said.  
 “We’re fundamentally at the bottom of the property cycle,
and so we see several opportunities in the current environment
to create new vehicles over the next 12 to 24 months,” he said.  
 K-REIT Asia , a Singapore property trust part-owned by
Keppel Land Ltd., paid A$120 million for a Sydney  office  tower,
the Australian Financial Review reported July 21. The real
estate unit of the  Government of Singapore Investment Corp.  last
week completed the purchase of an industrial property portfolio
from Melbourne-based  Salta Properties  for about A$220 million,
the Financial Review said on July 16.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nichola Saminather  in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        