-- Massey Energy's Blankenship Says Regulation of Coal Industry Is Excessive
-- Margaret Brennan
-- 2010-07-22T18:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/massey-energy-s-blankenship-says-regulation-of-coal-industry-is-excessive.html

          
          
             Massey Energy Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Don Blankenship , whose company owns the West Virginia
coal mine where 29 people died in April, said U.S. regulation of
the industry is excessive.  
 A U.S. House committee yesterday approved legislation that
would make it easier to shut mines with repeated safety
violations, a bill sparked by the accident at Massey’s Upper Big
Branch operation. The measure would also expand subpoena powers
of the Mine Safety and Health Administration.  
 “The feeling of the industry is that we’re regulated too
much and not too little,” Blankenship said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness.” “Tragedies lead to more
regulation.”  
 Blankenship, 60, said increased scrutiny from MSHA puts
miner safety at risk because the coal industry’s engineers are
better than the government’s.  
 “It basically comes down to engineers that work for the
company that we believe are more technically competent than
those that work for the government,” he said.  
 Massey rose $1.70, or 6 percent, to $30.12 at 1:19 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
fallen 45 percent since the fatal blast.  
 “Our inspectors go through rigorous training for almost up
to two years,” said  Amy Louviere , an MSHA spokeswoman.  
 Methane Gas  
 Massey said today that methane gas data and chart
information collected from Upper Big Branch on April 5 showed
the mine experienced a sudden inundation of unusually high
levels of methane gas, enough to fill a 2,000 square foot house
with an “explosive atmosphere in under 40 seconds.”  
 MSHA said the company is referencing data taken several
hours after the explosion and that it share the information with
Massey “some time ago.”  
 “We know this company and this mine violated ventilation
standards multiple times in the months leading up to the
explosion,” the agency said in an e-mailed statement today.  
 MSHA said it will study the methane levels closely and will
determine whether Massey was following the ventilation plan at
the time of the blast and if there’s evidence that suggest
detectors were tampered with.  
 The company has said that MSHA forced it to install a
complex ventilation system in the so-called longwall area, where
the miners were working when the explosion occurred, months
before the accident.  
 MSHA Violations  
 In a preliminary  report  to President  Barack Obama  in April,
the Labor Department said it had been watching Massey and Upper
Big Branch closely because of violations. The operation received
639 U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration violations from
January 2009 to the accident.  
 Massey miners are experiencing a “psychological” impact
in the aftermath of the accident that’s affecting production,
Blankenship said.  
 “It’s impacting production in that people are trying to
make sure they’re in compliance with every rule,” he said in
the interview.  
 Massey said in April that it expects a second-quarter
charge of as much as $212 million for the accident, more than
twice its 2009 earnings. The company plans to release its
quarterly results July 27.  
 The costs will include $80 million to $150 million for
benefits for families of the miners, rescue and recovery
efforts, insurance deductibles, legal and other contingencies,
the company said in April in its first-quarter earnings
statement. The value of the damaged equipment, development and
mineral rights is an additional $62 million, the company said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Brennan  at   mbrennan25@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        