-- Astrazeneca Said to Pay $2 Million in First Settlements of Seroquel Suits
-- Jef Feeley
-- 2010-07-22T16:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/astrazeneca-said-to-pay-2-million-in-first-settlements-of-seroquel-suits.html

          
          
             AstraZeneca Plc  agreed to pay $2
million to settle more than 200 cases over its antipsychotic
drug  Seroquel  in the first resolution of lawsuits alleging the
medicine causes diabetes, people familiar with the accords said.  
 The settlement, which provides an average payout of more
than $10,000 per case, came as the result of a U.S. court-
ordered mediation involving 26,000 cases filed against London-
based AstraZeneca over Seroquel, the people said.  
 “It should come as no surprise to investors and we’ve seen
 Eli Lilly  settle on the very same issue with their competitor
product, Zyprexa,”  Gbola Amusa , an analyst at UBS AG, said
yesterday in an interview. “The amount of the settlement
implies a very low liability, much lower than the $1 billion to
$2 billion range we expected a couple years ago.”  
 AstraZeneca’s decision to begin settling Seroquel claims
comes as the U.K.’s second-largest drugmaker’s London shares
surged to a three-year high last month after a judge upheld a
patent on the company’s Crestor cholesterol pill. U.S. District
Judge  Joseph Farnan  in Delaware concluded June 30 the patent on
Crestor’s active ingredient is valid and enforceable until 2016.  
 AstraZeneca officials declined to comment on the settlement
of the 200 Seroquel cases or the mediation ordered by a federal
judge in Florida who was overseeing all federal-court litigation
over the antipsychotic drug.  
 ‘In Good Faith’  
 “AstraZeneca continues to participate in good faith in the
court-ordered mediation process,”  Tony Jewell , a company
spokesman, said in an interview. “The mediator has asked the
parties to maintain the confidentiality of those discussions.
AstraZeneca will honor the mediator’s request.”  
 Lawrence J. Gornick , a San Francisco lawyer who represented
the more than 200 former Seroquel users whose cases are being
settled, didn’t return calls for comment on the accords.  
 AstraZeneca’s American depositary receipts, each
representing one ordinary share, rose 98 cents, or 2 percent, to
$49.21 at 12:32 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The company’s London share rose 37.5 pence, or 1.2
percent to 3,223 pence today.  
 Some of Gornick’s cases were filed in state courts in  New
Jersey  and  Delaware  while others had been consolidated with
other federal suits before U.S. District Judge  Anne Conway  in
Orlando, Florida, the people familiar with the settlements said.  
 Case Consolidation  
 Since 2006, Conway has overseen the federal cases during
pre-trial evidence gathering, part of the  Multi-District
Litigation  program intended to save money by streamlining
document exchanges and avoiding duplication.  
 In November, Conway said she would recommend that the panel
of judges who oversaw case consolidations return the suits to
their home courts. The panel has issued several orders over the
past two months to send the cases back, according to court
filings.  
 AstraZeneca won the first Seroquel case to go to trial
after a New Jersey jury ruled in March that the drugmaker
properly warned a Vietnam veteran’s doctors about the diabetes
risk posed by the antipsychotic drug.  
 A Delaware judge also has thrown out three Seroquel cases
that were set for trial, saying plaintiffs can’t produce enough
credible evidence that Seroquel causes diabetes to present their
claims to a jury.  
 Conway also ordered lawyers for AstraZeneca and former
Seroquel users in November to meet with  Stephen Saltzburg , a
George Washington University Law School professor, who is
serving as a mediator in the case.  
 ‘Magic Wand’  
 Saltzburg noted in a February court filing AstraZeneca
faces as many as 26,000 lawsuits over the antipsychotic drug and
that a global settlement of the claims wasn’t in the cards.  
 “I wish there were a magic wand that could be waved to
settle all Seroquel cases instantly,” Saltzburg said in the
filing. “Such wand does not exist.”  
 Gornick met with Saltzburg earlier this month to discuss
settling cases and agreed to resolve them for an average of more
than $10,000 apiece, the people said.  
 The settlement indicates some plaintiffs’ lawyers are
questioning the strength of their Seroquel claims,  Carl Tobias ,
a professor at University of Richmond Law School who teaches
classes on mass-tort law, said in an interview.  
 “It also may be a reflection of the difficulty the
plaintiffs are having in getting these cases to trial,” Tobias
said. “The plaintiffs have to be asking themselves after the
New Jersey trial whether they can win one of these.”  
 ‘Seeking More Cases’  
 Lawyers for former Seroquel users counter studies show the
drug causes diabetes and the progression of the disease
increases the potential damages in the cases.  
 “We are actively seeking more cases and will be litigating
these cases for years to come,”  Paul Pennock , a Manhattan-based
lawyer who represented the Vietnam veteran whose claims were
rejected in the first Seroquel trial earlier this year, said in
an e-mailed statement.  
 The average recoveries in other product-liability
settlements have been much more lucrative, Tobias noted.  
 Lawyers representing families claiming GlaxoSmithKline
Plc’s Paxil antidepressant caused birth defects in children
recovered more than $1 billion in settlements for more than 800
cases, people familiar with those accords said earlier this
week.  
 Off-Label Settlements  
 That generated an average recovery of more than $1.2
million per family, the people said.  
 Lilly, who makes the competing antipsychotic drug Zyprexa,
has paid more $2.9 billion so far to settle more than 30,000
suits alleging the medicine causes diabetes and government
allegations that Lilly illegally marketed the pills for off-
label uses and downplayed side effects.  
 In April, AstraZeneca agreed to pay $520 million to resolve
federal regulators claims the company illegally marketed
Seroquel for off-label uses.  
 Under U.S. law, a doctor can prescribe a medicine for any
condition so long as it’s approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for one ailment. Drug companies, however, aren’t
allowed to promote a drug for uses other than those specified by
regulators.  
 The consolidated Seroquel case is In Re Seroquel Products
Litigation, 06-MD- 01769, U.S. District Court, Middle District
of Florida (Orlando).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     AstraZeneca Plc is said to have agreed to pay $2 million to settle more than 200 cases over its drug Seroquel. Photographer: JB Reed/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
