-- Mattel Loses Bratz Doll Appeals Court Ruling to MGA
-- Edvard Pettersson
-- 2010-07-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/mattel-s-victory-on-rights-to-bratz-dolls-overturned-by-u-s-appeals-court.html

          
          
             Mattel Inc. must retry its claims to
MGA Entertainment Inc.’s Bratz dolls after an appeals court
overturned a judge’s finding that Mattel owned the ideas and
work of a former employee who first thought of the dolls.  
 The ruling may make it more difficult for corporations to
claim ownership of their employees’ ideas, particularly if they
are conceived in a private context, said Carole Handler, an
intellectual property lawyer with Lathrop and Gage LLP in Los
Angeles who isn’t involved in the case.  
 “This has enormous importance for a host of legal cases
that come up quite frequently,” Handler said in a phone
interview. “It raises many issues.”  
 The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco yesterday
overturned a December 2008 order that gave Mattel the rights to
most of MGA’s Bratz products. A jury in the case found that the
designer who created the dolls was working at Mattel when he
conceived of the idea and the name and made the initial drawings
for the pouty and multiethnic girls.  
 “Even assuming that MGA took some ideas wrongfully, it
added tremendous value by turning the ideas into products and,
eventually, a popular and highly profitable brand,” the
appellate panel said in an  opinion  written by Chief Judge  Alex Kozinski . “It is not equitable to transfer this billion-dollar
brand, the value of which is overwhelmingly the result of MGA’s
legitimate efforts, because it may have started with two
misappropriated names.”  
 Barbie Song  
 The ruling is in line with Kozinski’s previous decisions in
support of free discourse, including a 2002 ruling throwing out
a trademark-infringement lawsuit filed by Mattel against a
Danish band over a song poking fun at Mattel’s Barbie doll,
Handler said.  
 “He’s not a big fan of idea ownership,” she said of
Kozinski.  
 The appeals court said a significant part of the jury
verdict and damages award likely needs to be vacated and that
the entire case probably will need to be retried.  
 In particular, a jury would have to decide whether Mattel,
under the employment agreement with its former employee, is
entitled to his ideas and to his drawings if they weren’t part
of his work for the toymaker, the three-member panel said.  
 U.S. District Judge  Stephen Larson , who oversaw the case
and has since returned to private practice, ruled before the
trial that under the agreement, Mattel had the rights to the
designer’s works.  
 ‘Compelling Case’  
 “We look forward to a full trial on all Mattel’s claims
against MGA,” El Segundo, California-based  Mattel  said
yesterday in a statement. “We believe that such a trial will
present a comprehensive and even more compelling case for Mattel
than was possible with a divided trial.”  
 Isaac Larian , founder and chief executive officer of Van
Nuys, California-based MGA, said in a statement that the company
is deeply grateful to the court for confirming “that the
American dream lives.” The company will launch a “stunning new
line of Bratz products,” Larian said.  
 The jury in Riverside, California, found that the employee,
 Carter Bryant , came up with the Bratz idea and made most of the
original sketches for it while he was still at Mattel. It
awarded Mattel $100 million in damages, 5 percent of the
$2 billion the toymaker sought.  
 Larson ruled that most of MGA’s Bratz doll line infringed
Bryant’s initial drawings of the dolls that, under the jury’s
finding and his pretrial ruling, belonged to Mattel. The
appellate court said Larson was wrong to conclude that most of
MGA’s Bratz dolls were substantially similar to Bryant’s
sketches.  
 ‘Breathtaking Opinion’  
 “This is a breathtaking opinion by a unanimous panel of
the Ninth Circuit,”  Thomas Nolan , a lawyer with Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, who represented MGA during the trial,
said in a statement. “The panel endorsed all of the arguments
that MGA has been advancing throughout this protracted
litigation.”  
 The 2008 trial was the first of two scheduled phases.
Mattel and closely held MGA are preparing for the second, which
includes Mattel’s racketeering claims against MGA. U.S. District
Judge  David Carter  in Santa Ana, California, who took over the
case form Larson, hasn’t set a trial date.  
 Mattel  rose 39 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $21.05 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading yesterday. The shares have gained
5.4 percent this year.  
 The case is MGA Entertainment Inc. v. Mattel Inc.,
09-55673, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco. The district court case is Bryant v. Mattel,
04-09049, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Riverside).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Isaac Larian, president and chief executive officer of MGA Entertainment Co. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
