-- Australian Dollar Trades Near Two-Month High as Europe Debt Concerns Fade
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-23T07:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/australian-dollar-trades-near-two-month-high-as-europe-debt-concerns-fade.html

          
          
             Australia’s dollar traded near a
two-month high as concerns faded over Europe’s debt crisis
before the region’s regulators release the results of bank
stress tests.  
 The so-called Aussie headed for its biggest monthly gain
since May 2009 as the  premium  offered by Australian government
two-year bonds over similar-dated U.S. debt rose to the most in
two years. New Zealand’s currency was set for a weekly advance
before the central bank’s July 29 meeting where economists
predict it will raise interest rates for a second month. Both
currencies climbed against the dollar and yen yesterday as U.S.
earnings results boosted demand for higher-yielding assets.  
 “There’s some optimism that perhaps Armageddon is not
going to happen and while it could still be a rocky road for
some European banks, there’s not going to be a meltdown,” said
 Derek Mumford , a Sydney-based senior consultant at HiFX, a
foreign exchange risk management firm. “As long as earnings
look positive and equities are steady you could see the Aussie
and other commodity currencies appreciating.”  
 Australia’s currency traded at 89.24 U.S. cents as of 4:30
p.m. in Sydney from 89.33 cents in New York yesterday, set for a
6.2 percent advance this month. It traded at 77.77 yen from
77.67 yesterday, advancing 3.4 percent this week.  
 New Zealand’s dollar fetched 72.43 U.S. cents from 72.47
cents yesterday and 71.07 cents on July 16. The kiwi bought
63.08 yen from 63.02 yen.  
 The Australian dollar faces “big technical resistance” at
its 200-day moving average of 89.66 U.S. cents, said Anthony
Gray, head of foreign-exchange dealing in Sydney at Travelex
Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. “Aussie
will struggle to go higher than that.”  
 Europe Rallies  
 The euro has rallied after hitting a four-year low last
month as Greece, Spain and Portugal have sold 50 billion euros
($64 billion) of debt since May 10, when the need to save the
single currency forced finance ministers to create a nearly $1
trillion rescue fund. European stocks rose yesterday after data
showed growth in the euro area’s services and manufacturing
industries accelerated as the debt crisis eased.  
 Regulators are relying on today’s results of bank stress
tests to reassure investors that the euro can withstand the
fallout from the Greek-led turmoil.  
 “It’s not so much the results themselves but how much
transparency there is, and is the methodology rigorous enough to
satisfy investor concerns about the European banking sector
going forward,” said Jonathan Cavenagh, a currency strategist
at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “If we see nervousness in
equity market sentiment, then you may see Aussie come off.”  
 Inflation Data  
 The Aussie gained 2.7 percent against the greenback this
week after minutes from the Reserve Bank of Australia’s July
meeting showed policy makers intend to use results of Europe’s
stress tests and local inflation figures due July 28 to decide
whether to resume raising rates. The pace of  consumer price
 increases nearly doubled to 0.9 percent in the first quarter.  
 An Australian  index  of export prices rose 16.1 percent in
the second quarter from the previous three months, outpacing
analysts’ estimates, the statistics bureau said today. Import
prices gained 1.9 percent.  
 “There are signs of more stable growth and more
willingness by the central banks of Australia, New Zealand and
Canada to raise interest rates,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research at online currency trader GFT Forex in New
York. “At the same time we’re seeing a pick-up in U.S. stocks,
because people think that interest rates will remain low, which
has also helped the Aussie.”  
 Profit Forecasts  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining the most in two
weeks yesterday after companies from United Parcel Service Inc.
to AT&T Inc. and Qualcomm Inc. increased profit forecasts. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 1.7 percent today.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled this week
that policy makers were prepared to act as needed to aid growth.
The U.S. economic outlook remained “unusually uncertain,” he
said in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee.  
 The  premium  offered by the two-year government bonds in
Australia over Treasuries of similar maturity was 411 basis
points. New Zealand’s three-year debt offers an extra 335 points
of  return  over U.S. bonds.  
 Australian bond futures fell, with the 10-year contract for
September delivery declining to 94.80 on the Sydney Futures
Exchange from 94.85 yesterday. The implied yield on the futures
stood at 5.21 percent.  
 New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, was little changed at 4.22 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Candice Zachariahs  in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        