-- Australian Miners Contemplate Restarting Tax Battle With Labor's Gillard
-- Marion Rae
-- 2010-07-22T07:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/australian-miners-contemplate-reigniting-tax-battle-with-labor-s-gillard.html

          
          
             Australian mining companies may
resume an advertising campaign against the incumbent Labor
government’s compromise mine tax, less than a week after Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  called the Aug. 21 national election.  
 There’s “every chance” an anti-tax campaign on television
and radio could begin as soon as this weekend, the Association
of Mining and Exploration Companies Inc. Chief Executive Officer
Simon Bennison said today by phone from Perth.  
 Gillard, 48, ousted  Kevin Rudd , 52, as prime minister on
June 24 and scaled back his proposed levy on resources “super
profits” in a deal clinched with  BHP Billiton Ltd. ,  Rio Tinto
Group  and Xstrata Plc, after Rudd’s standoff with miners over
the tax saw voter support fall to an election-losing level.  
 “The fact that it’s a good deal for Rio and BHP doesn’t
make it a good deal for the rest,” Bennison said.  
 The government exempted most commodities, raised the
threshold and cut the tax to 30 percent on coal and iron ore
earnings to win support in the deal outlined on July 2, to try
to deprive the opposition of a key election platform. Gillard
widened her lead over  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition,
according to the Newspoll survey published in the Australian
newspaper on July 19, two days after she set an election date.  
 Labor is ahead by 10 percentage points with 55 percent of
voters preferring the incumbent party, up from a 53 percent to
47 percent split three weeks earlier just after she took power,
the poll of 1,140 voters on July 16 to 18 showed. The survey has
a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  
 ‘Unfair Tax’  
 Abbott, bidding to make Labor the first one-term government
in 80 years, says he won’t adopt the tax, describing it as an
attack on the nation’s most profitable industry.  
 “It’s still a very unfair tax particularly on the mid-tier
and junior guys,” Bennison said, as Abbott traveled to Perth to
campaign in Western Australia.  
 The tax is biased toward Rio, BHP and Xstrata, the three
companies who negotiated with Gillard,  Andrew Forrest , the chief
executive officer of the Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. said on a
conference call.  
 “The rest of the Australian mining industry, which is
working to deliver the major job growth opportunities for all
Australians, has not had a word of consultation but is being
asked to believe that everything will be dealt with after the
election,” Forrest said.  
 Fortescue, which didn’t contribute to the association’s
earlier campaign that helped bring down Rudd, would probably
contribute to a new campaign if asked, Forrest said.  
 Iron Ore, Coal  
 Australia, the world’s largest shipper of coal and iron
ore, mines everything from diamonds and titanium to nickel and
zinc in an industry worth about 10 percent of the A$1.2 trillion
($1.1 trillion) economy. Demand for resources to fuel power
stations and steel mills in China and India has helped the
country skirt recession.  
 The incumbent Labor government also faces opposition to the
tax from the Greens party.  
 Gillard’s deal will cost taxpayers A$7.5 billion in revenue
in its first two years, according to Greens leader  Bob Brown .  
 Brown plans to “improve” the tax when legislation reaches
the upper house Senate, where his party could hold the balance
of power after next month’s election. Talks should include the
Greens, “as long as they are in public and not behind closed
doors like Julia Gillard’s backdown to BHP, Xstrata and Rio,”
Brown told reporters in Hobart today.  
 A re-elected Labor government will implement the planned
mining tax in mid-2012 and won’t compromise with the Greens when
laws are put to the Senate, Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio on July 20.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        