-- Baidu Forecast Beats Estimates as Rival Google Fades (Update1)
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-07-22T05:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/baidu-forecast-beats-estimates-as-china-dispute-hurts-google-shares-rise.html

          
          
             Baidu Inc. , operator of China’s
most popular online search engine, forecast sales growth that
beat analysts’ estimates as rival  Google Inc.  lost market
share amid a censorship dispute with Chinese regulators.  
 “We have been gaining traffic share gradually,” Baidu
Chief Executive Officer  Robin Li  said in a conference call
today to discuss yesterday’s second-quarter earnings
announcement. The Beijing-based company forecasts third-
quarter revenue to rise 77 percent to 2.26 billion yuan ($333
million) as it gained a record number of customers in the
previous three months.  
 Li said he expects to add more advertisers after
offering a system that facilitates the sale of online-search
keywords in China, the world’s biggest online market. Baidu’s
second-quarter profit more than doubled, partly because
Google shut its China-based search site in March and
redirected users offshore to avoid censorship rules.  
 “It’s a robust set of results” for Baidu, said  Eric Wen , who rates the company’s shares “buy” at Mirae Asset
Securities Co. in Hong Kong. “Baidu’s position in the market
has strengthened,” allowing the company to pay partner
websites less to acquire user traffic, which increases
profitability, Wen said.  
 Baidu added 33,000 clients in the second quarter after a
nationwide marketing program, Li said. The company has more
than 250,000 customers, he said.  
 Profit for the three months ending June 30 rose to 837.4
million yuan, or 2.40 yuan per American depositary receipt,
from 383.3 million yuan, or 1.10 yuan per ADR, a year earlier,
Baidu said. That exceeded the 710.4 million yuan average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Sales Rise  
 Sales in the second quarter were 1.9 billion yuan,
compared with 1.1 billion yuan a year earlier, Baidu reported
after the close of U.S. markets yesterday.  
 The average estimate of 13 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg is for third-quarter sales of 2.18 billion yuan,
compared with 1.28 billion yuan a year earlier.  
 The adoption of Baidu’s Phoenix Nest advertising system
boosted the company’s sales, CEO Li said. The company
switched all customers to the program in December.  
 Baidu ADRs yesterday rose as much as 4.5 percent in
extended U.S. trading following the earnings announcement,
after falling 1 percent to $73.31 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 The stock has gained 78 percent this year, outperforming
online rivals in China including  Tencent Holdings Ltd. , the
country’s biggest Internet company by market value, and
 Alibaba.com Ltd. , the leading local e-commerce operator. It’s
also the  best performer  in the Morgan Stanley Internet Index
this year.  
 Rising Share  
 Baidu  accounted for 70.8 percent of China’s search-
engine market by revenue in the second quarter, rising from
67.8 percent three months earlier, according to research
company iResearch. Google’s market share dropped to 27.3
percent from 29.5 percent.  
 Traffic acquisition cost as a percentage of revenue fell
to 9.7 percent, compared with 16 percent a year earlier,
Baidu said.  
 China had an estimated 420 million Internet users at the
end of June, an increase of 36 million from six months
earlier, according to data from the government-sponsored
China Internet Network Information Center.  
 In March, Google defied the Chinese government by ending
self-censorship of its local search service and redirecting
users to an unfiltered Hong Kong site. The U.S. company won
the renewal of its Internet license in China this month after
submitting a revised application on the grounds that it would
now point users to the Hong Kong site, instead of redirecting
them automatically.  
 “We believe the market-share gain for Baidu versus the
market-share loss for Google is likely related to Google
China’s partial exit,”  Alicia Yap , an analyst at Citigroup
Inc., wrote in a July 19 report. The changes in Google’s
China site “caused increasingly bad user experiences,”
according to Yap.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Robin Li, founder and chairman of Baidu.com Inc., attends a news conference in Tokyo. Photographer: Tomohiro Ohsumi/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Jin Yoon, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about Baidu Inc.'s financial results and outlook.
     Baidu expects third-quarter revenue to rise 77 percent to 2.26 billion yuan ($333 million) as it gained a record number of customers in the previous three months. The Beijing-based company's second-quarter profit more than doubled after Google shut its China-based search site in March and redirected users offshore to avoid censorship rules in the world’s biggest online market. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
