-- Banks Use Russia Default Relic for Bonds Amid Stress Tests: Credit Markets
-- Bryan Keogh
-- 2010-07-23T16:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/banks-use-russia-default-relic-for-bonds-amid-stress-tests-credit-markets.html

          
          
             Spanish, Italian and Irish banks are
relying on bonds that helped rescue Russian lenders in the wake
of the country’s default 12 years ago.  
 Banco de Sabadell SA , a Spanish commercial lender, is
marketing bonds with puts, options that give investors the right
to demand repayment before maturity. Western European issuers
sold $3.1 billion of so-called puttable notes in July, adding to
a record $14.6 billion last month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 The cost of insuring bonds sold by banks in Spain, Italy
and Ireland has risen by more than two thirds in the past six
months, CMA prices for credit-default swaps show. Just as in
Russia after the 1998 default, puttable bonds have become one of
the only financing sources for the banks, which received a
report on their financial health today from European regulators.  
 “The situation in Europe isn’t as stressed as it used to
be in Russia, but it’s definitely an instrument designed for
hard times,” said  Romain Netter , a Paris-based dealer of
medium-term notes at Natixis, which helped place 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) of bonds with put options this year.  
 While banks face the risk of having to raise money
immediately should investors demand repayment, puttable debt
offers borrowers lower yields.  
 Banco Bilbao  
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , Spain’s second-biggest
bank, sold $580 million of one-year puttable bonds on July 21,
Bloomberg data show. Put options saved Bilbao-based  BBVA  almost
a percentage point in interest, or about 8.5 million euros a
year, on the two-year floating-rate notes it sold June 24,
according to  Maud Debreuil-Chevroton , manager of money-market
funds at Axa Investment Managers in Paris.  
 Seven European Union banks failed the region’s stress
tests, the Committee of European Banking Supervisors said on its
website today.  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds instead of government debt was
unchanged at 185 basis points, or 1.85 percentage points, the
lowest since May 20, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Average yields rose
to 3.822 percent from 3.815.  
 The cost of protecting company debt in the U.S. from
default fell for a second day, reaching the lowest since May 31.
The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 0.99 basis point to
107.39 basis points as of 12:24 p.m. in New York, according to
Markit Group Ltd. In London, the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings, fell 2.5
to 111.68, the lowest since May 18.  
 Bondholder Protection  
 Both indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it detriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying security if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  
 Chicago Parking Meters LLC has postponed its planned $500
million offering of 10-year notes, according to a person
familiar with the transaction who wasn’t authorized to discuss
the decision publicly and declined to be identified.  
 Puttable bond sales in Western Europe have dropped since
June’s record as corporate new issues declined 38 percent amid
summer holidays, Bloomberg data show.  
 91 Banks  
 The 91 banks being stress-tested were only examined on
European sovereign debt losses for the bonds they trade, rather
than those they hold to maturity. The tests assume a loss of
12.3 percent on Spanish debt, according to the document obtained
by Bloomberg News.  
 Spanish banks have issued $9.6 billion of puttable bonds
since May, 72 percent of all the debt they sold, Bloomberg data
show.  
 Banco Sabadell , which posted a 30 percent drop in first-
half profit, is offering two-year securities with put options
every three months, according to two people familiar with the
deal. The biggest buyers of such notes are French money-market
funds and other commercial paper investors seeking higher
yields, said a spokesman, who declined to be identified citing
bank policy. Separately, Chairman  Josep Oliu  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today that Sabadell will pass the stress
tests “for sure.”  
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , Italy’s biggest lender by branches,
sold $1.6 billion of one-year floating-rate notes on June 9, its
first puttable issue, Bloomberg data show. Monica Provini, a
spokeswoman for the Milan-based lender, declined to comment.  
 Passing Tests  
 Allied Irish Banks Plc , the country’s second-largest lender
by market value, has sold $1.33 billion of the securities since
May, Bloomberg data show. Spokesman  Ronan Sheridan  said the
Dublin-based bank offers puttable debt in response to inquiries
from investors, and that they’re “a very small part of our
funding profile.”  
 Credit-default swaps on 13 banks in Ireland, Spain and
Italy have jumped an average 114 basis points in the past six
months to 261, according to CMA. The benchmark iTraxx Europe
Financial Index of contracts linked to 25 banks and insurers has
increased 45 basis points to 131 in the same period.  
 Spain, which has the third-largest deficit in the euro
region, included a put option for the first time when it tapped
international investors for a 500 million-euro two-year bond
sale July 7. The bonds were part of the nation’s efforts to
diversify funding, said a Madrid-based spokesman, who declined
to be identified citing government policy. Inserting the option
saved the nation about 140 basis points in yield, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Esteban Duarte  in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
 Bryan Keogh  in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp chairman Sheila Bair. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Josep Oliu Creus, chief executive officer of Banco Sabadell SA, talks about how his bank will fare in European stress test results due later today.
     He speaks with Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
