-- Bank of Canada Forecast Includes `Gradual' Rate Rises to Curb Inflation
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-22T20:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bank-of-canada-forecast-includes-gradual-rate-rises-to-curb-inflation.html

          
          
             The Bank of Canada said its economic
forecast includes “gradual” interest-rate increases to control
inflation in an economic recovery hampered by slower foreign
demand and needing private expenditures to replace government
stimulus.  
 Europe’s debt crisis will reduce Canada’s output by 0.1
percent this year and 0.3 percent in 2011, and spending will be
sluggish in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner, the
central bank said in a Monetary Policy  Report . About half of
 Canada’s growth  through 2012 will come from consumer spending,
while government becomes a drag starting next year, the report
said.  
 Governor  Mark Carney  raised his  benchmark interest rate  two
days ago, the second increase in a row, and said that further
moves “would have to be weighed carefully” against the pace of
the recovery. The report today added that “this projection
includes a gradual reduction in monetary stimulus consistent
with achieving the inflation target” of 2 percent.  
 The two statements “are linked by the fact that risks
around the projection are elevated, and there’s no pre-ordained
path for interest rates,” Carney, 45, said at a press
conference in Ottawa today.  
 ‘Very Much Appropriate’  
 Other Group of Seven central banks are keeping rates at or
near record lows to sustain their recoveries. Carney will raise
rates at the bank’s September and October meetings before
pausing in December, according to  Meny Grauman , a senior
economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in Toronto.  
 Such a gradual path is “very much appropriate considering
the global economic environment and the pace of recovery around
the world that the Bank of Canada has highlighted,” Grauman
said.  
 The rate on the  six-month  overnight index swap, a measure
of what investors say the central bank’s key rate will average
over that time, increased to 0.935 percent today from 0.915
percent yesterday. The Canadian dollar gained 1 percent to
C$1.0388 per U.S. dollar at 4:21 p.m. in Toronto from C$1.0491
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys 96.26 U.S. cents.  
 The annual rate of economic growth will slow to 2.8 percent
in the third quarter from the decade-high pace of 6.1 percent in
the first quarter, the bank said.  Inflation  excluding the impact
of changes in provincial sales taxes will average 1.7 percent in
the July-September period. The overall inflation rate and the
core rate that excludes eight volatile items “are expected to
remain near 2 percent” through 2012, the report said.  
 Lower Growth Forecast  
 The bank on July 20 trimmed its Canada growth forecast for
this year to 3.5 percent from 3.7 percent. The economy will grow
2.9 percent in 2011 and 2.2 percent in 2012, the bank said. It
estimated the U.S. economy will grow 2.9 percent this year,
lower than an April estimate of 3.1 percent. The U.S. economy
will expand 3 percent in 2011, the bank said, cutting its
earlier forecast of 3.5 percent.  
 “The hand-off from public stimulus to private demand in
advanced economies is proceeding but has yet to be
accomplished,” the report said.  
 Carney repeated a statement made two days ago that the key
rate of 0.75 percent leaves “considerable” monetary stimulus
in place. He also said there is little chance of a ‘double-dip’
recession in Canada, and output has almost returned to its peak
before a recession that ended last year.  
 The bank cut its assumption for the Canadian dollar to 96
U.S. cents from an April assumption of 99 U.S. cents.  
 Government spending will add 1.4 percentage points to the
expansion this year and subtract 0.2 point next year and 0.5
percent in 2012, the bank said. Consumption will add 1.9 points
to growth this year, and 1.4 points in 2011 and 2012. Trade will
shave 1.6 points off this year’s growth rate, double the April
estimate.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        