-- Becton's Commercial Mortgage Bonds Downgraded by S&P, Top Class Loses AAA
-- Sarah McDonald
-- 2010-07-22T07:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/becton-s-commercial-mortgage-bonds-downgraded-by-s-p-top-class-loses-aaa.html

          
          
             Standard & Poor’s downgraded
commercial mortgage-backed notes sold by a fund of  Becton
Property Group  as the Australian developer seeks to sell assets
to repay the debt.  
 The top class of notes was downgraded five rungs to A from
AAA, the ratings firm said today in an e-mailed statement. S&P
said it may cut the grades further if it sees an increasing
prospect that bondholders won’t be repaid before the legal final
maturity of the notes in 2012.  
 “The downgrades reflect our opinion of the uncertain
timing and strategy, and heightened execution risk associated
with repayment of the notes,” S&P said in the statement.  
 Melbourne-based Becton, which is listed on the Australian
stock exchange, was forced to sell properties and reduce debt
during the global credit freeze. The nation’s commercial real
estate market remains weak, with prices down by more than 40
percent from their early 2008 peak, the Reserve Bank of
Australia said in May.  
 The company had no immediate comment on the downgrade when
contacted by Bloomberg News today.  
 Becton sold A$169 million ($149 million) of commercial
mortgage bonds in 2007, paying an average margin of 25.9 basis
points more than the bank bill swap rate for the debt, according
to a  press release  at the time.  
 Bondholders have agreed to extend the scheduled maturity of
the notes to January 2011, according to S&P. They were
originally due this month, and the ratings company said in June
that Becton had been unable to refinance the debt.  
 Commercial mortgage bonds are typically structured with two
maturity dates. After the so-called scheduled maturity, the
trust that issued the notes can sell the underlying assets to
repay the debt. The legal final maturity is the date by which
this process should be completed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah McDonald  in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        