-- Bernanke's `Unusually' Shows Deflation Concern, Goodfriend Says: Tom Keene
-- Tom Keene
-- 2010-07-22T18:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bernanke-s-unusually-shows-deflation-concern-goodfriend-says-tom-keene.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s testimony to Congress shows concern over deflation,
according to  Marvin Goodfriend , an economist at Carnegie Mellon
University and a former Richmond Fed policy adviser.  
 In his semi-annual report on monetary policy yesterday,
Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee that central bankers
are ready to act as needed while the economic outlook remains
“unusually uncertain.” Bernanke reiterated the comments today
before the House Financial Services Committee.  
 The Fed chairman’s choice of the word “unusually” signals
the central bank is “worried primarily about an extended
downside risk” to the economy, Goodfriend said during a radio
interview today with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Surveillance.  
 “I think this is an entirely original phrase,” said
Goodfriend, who teaches at Carnegie Mellon’s Tepper School of
Business in Pittsburgh. “I can understand the poetry.”  
 Even with a double-dip recession unlikely, the Fed could
face a contraction in labor markets and deflation as
productivity outpaces demand for goods and services, according
to Goodfriend.  
 The deflation scare of 2003 was “kind of a dress rehearsal
for the situation we’re in today,” Goodfriend said.  
 The Fed is dealing with a “situation we haven’t seen for
decades,” said Goodfriend, citing the near-zero interest rates
of the 1930s during the Great Depression.  
 Consumer Prices  
 Policy makers have kept the  target  for overnight loans
between banks in a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008. They trimmed growth forecasts for this year
and next at the Federal Open Market Committee’s June meeting,
according to minutes released July 14.  
 The consumer price index slipped 0.1 percent in June for a
third straight monthly decrease, according to Labor Department
data. The so-called core rate, which excludes food and energy
prices, increased 0.2 percent, exceeding the 0.1 percent gain
projected by the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The year-over-year core rate rose 0.9 percent.  
 “We haven’t seen any of these things very much alone, let
alone together,” the professor said.  
 Given unemployment near 10 percent and growing, Goodfriend
said the Fed should take action if it finds “outright
deflation” in the consumer price index.  
 The Fed’s near-zero interest rates and record balance sheet
are already “very stimulative,” Bernanke said yesterday in the
testimony. Possible options “if the recovery seems to be
faltering” include amplifying the commitment to low borrowing
costs, while cautioning that officials haven’t fully reviewed
the measures.  
 Deflation Risks  
 To position itself against deflation risks, Goodfriend said
the note the Fed should announce it’s ready to take its balance
sheet “well beyond $2 trillion by buying long-term Treasury
securities with newly created bank reserves, if the Fed
determines that is needed.”  
 The Fed must convince markets it’s willing to take the risk
of overshooting on deflation and creating some inflation,
Goodfriend wrote.  
 While the Fed has the tools to aid the economy, a full
recovery may require more than monetary policy, Goodfriend said.  
 “It seems to me that the key to getting the recovery
moving is to break the knot by which individuals with cash are
unwilling to take a position, a risky position for fear that
they would be taxed or decapitated should they earn outsized
rewards from taking that position,” Goodfriend said.  
 Labeling Bernanke “surgeon general of economics,”
Goodfriend said it’s the chairman’s job “to break that
impediment to the recovery.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in New York at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        