-- Bernanke Avoids Pledging Action Even as Outlook `Uncertain'
-- Craig Torres
-- 2010-07-22T07:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bernanke-says-fed-is-prepared-to-act-as-needed.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that signs of deeper economic weakness would
be needed to justify additional monetary stimulus, even as he
said there’s an “unusually uncertain” outlook for growth.  
 The Fed’s near-zero  interest rates  and record balance sheet
are already “very stimulative,” Bernanke said yesterday in
Senate testimony. He outlined possible options “if the recovery
seems to be faltering,” including amplifying the commitment to
low borrowing costs, while cautioning that officials haven’t
fully reviewed the measures.  
 Bernanke’s comments, including a reiteration that the Fed
is planning for an exit from its unprecedented stimulus, sent
stocks tumbling from Wall Street to Tokyo. While Bernanke left
the door open to additional steps, he said nothing would happen
in the “near term.”  
 “We’d have to be staring at a more significant
redevelopment of financial crises or a more detrimental downturn
in activity to provoke a significant policy response,” said
 Keith Hembre , chief economist at U.S. Bancorp’s FAF Advisors Inc.
in Minneapolis and a former Fed researcher. “That’s probably a
disappointment to some in the market that anticipate that every
time when the market isn’t continuing to steadily go up it
requires policy makers to do something,” said Hembre, whose
firm oversees more than $91 billion.  
 The Fed chief devoted a bigger portion of his prepared
testimony to how the Fed would eventually withdraw its
unprecedented credit expansion.  
 Stocks Drop  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  of stocks dropped 1.3
percent to 1,069.59 at the 4 p.m. close of trading in New York.
Yields on two-year Treasury securities fell to 0.552 percent,
the fourth record low in five days as investors put off
expectations for the Fed to raise borrowing costs. In Tokyo, the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.6 percent.  
 Bernanke’s semiannual testimony on monetary policy
concludes today with a 9:30 a.m. hearing before the House
Financial Services Committee in Washington.  
 “We’re not prepared to take any specific steps in the near
term, particularly since we’re still also evaluating the
recovery, the strength of the recovery,” Bernanke said under
questioning from lawmakers at the Senate Banking Committee.  
 Former Fed Governor  Lawrence Lindsey  predicted that the U.S.
central bank will take additional easing steps by the end of the
year.  
 Deflation Concern  
 “It would be obvious for the Federal Reserve by the end of
this year that we are entering in a deflationary trap and I
would expect some response by the Fed by that time,” Lindsey,
who also served as a White House economic adviser in the Bush
administration in 2001-2003 and now runs his own consulting
company, said at a forum in Tokyo today.  
 Among the options outlined by Bernanke during questioning
would be to alter the Fed’s “language or our framework
describing how we intend to change interest rates over time,
giving more information about that,” potentially using a
strategy adopted by the Bank of Canada last year.  
 The Fed has repeated since March 2009 its commitment to
keep the benchmark federal funds rate very low for an “extended
period” without specifying how long that would be. The Bank of
Canada gave a timeframe for keeping rates low.  
 Bernanke’s comments on the economy and monetary policy
showed little change from minutes of the Fed’s June 22-23
meeting, which said officials would need to consider options
should the economic outlook “worsen appreciably.”  
 2007 Reversal  
 In August 2007, with the subprime-mortgage market
collapsing, Bernanke and his colleagues judged that inflation
was their “predominant” concern and left their benchmark
interest rate at 5.25 percent. Within two months, they had
scrapped that view and begun cutting rates. That December, the
worst recession since the 1930s began, and a year later, the
federal funds rate was cut almost to zero.  
 This year, while the economy is growing, recent data have
prompted analysts to cut their forecasts. In June, U.S. factory
output fell 0.4 percent, the most in a year, housing starts
declined to the lowest level in eight months and private
employers added fewer workers to payrolls than economists
forecast.  
 The average growth in private payrolls of 100,000 a month
so far this year is “insufficient to reduce the  unemployment
rate  materially,” and it will probably take a “significant
amount of time” to restore the almost 8.5 million jobs lost in
2008 and 2009, Bernanke said.  
 ‘Too Complacent’  
 “I do think the Fed chairman is too complacent,” said
 John Makin , a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute in Washington and principal at hedge fund Caxton
Associates LLC. “It appears the Fed’s internal model is not
calling for a slowdown, and so he is sticking with that.”  
 Fed policy makers trimmed their forecasts for U.S. growth
and raised unemployment projections at their June meeting. For
2011, officials expect growth ranging from 3.5 percent to 4.2
percent, down from 3.4 percent to 4.5 percent, and a fourth-
quarter unemployment rate of 8.3 percent to 8.7 percent, up from
8.1 percent to 8.5 percent.  
 Those projections “look very stale,” said Hembre.  
 Makin said Bernanke should “pledge to keep the fed funds
rate at zero for two years.”  
 In April 2009, the Bank of Canada cut its key rate to a
record 0.25 percent and vowed to keep it there until the second
quarter of this year, “conditional on the outlook for
inflation.” It raised borrowing costs in June.  
 Outlook for Rates  
 The first rate increase by the Fed could occur as soon as
the second quarter of next year, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey in early July. A more
specific time commitment from the Fed might reduce yields on
Treasury notes, cheapening financing costs for millions of
businesses and consumers.  
 The move also wouldn’t require the Fed to expand its $2.34
trillion balance sheet or allocate more credit to industries
such as housing, a move some policy makers oppose. The Fed has
already purchased about $1.25 trillion of agency mortgage-backed
securities to lower home-loan costs.  
 Another possible step, Bernanke said, is restarting
securities purchases after the Fed bought $1.7 trillion of
housing debt and Treasuries through March 2010. Fed officials
have been debating this year the timing and pace of selling the
mortgage securities.  
 Interest on Reserves  
 The Fed could also lower the 0.25 percent interest rate it
pays on the $1 trillion of deposits held there by banks,
Bernanke said.  
 Reducing the interest rate on reserves would be “more
problematic than stimulative,”  Joseph Abate , a money-market
strategist at Barclays Capital Inc. in New York and former Fed
researcher, said in a report.  
 A reduction would lower yields as banks used their reserves
to buy Treasury securities, encouraging the departure of $500
billion in deposits from money-market mutual funds, Abate said.  
 “Clearly each of these options has got drawbacks,
potential costs,” Bernanke said. “I do think that there is
some potential for some of those steps to be effective.”  
 With the average U.S. rate on a 30-year home loan at a
record low 4.57 percent for the week ended July 15, Fed
officials have been focusing on ways outside of monetary policy
to aid the economy, such as encouraging lending to small
businesses.  
 The Fed is saying, “We can muddle through here,” said
 John Canally Jr ., investment strategist and economist at LPL
Financial Corp. in Boston, which oversees $285 billion.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Craig Torres  in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Dino Kos, managing director at Portales Partners LLC, talks about Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke's testimony today before the Senate Banking Committee.
     In his eight-page statement to the committee, Bernanke devoted almost 10 times as many words to discussing the exit from stimulus as he did to potential actions to boost growth. Kos talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
