-- Bernanke Says Extending Tax Cuts Maintains Stimulus
-- Ryan J. Donmoyer
-- 2010-07-22T19:52:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bernanke-says-extending-bush-s-tax-cuts-would-maintain-economic-stimulus.html

          
          
             Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said extending the tax cuts passed during former
President  George W. Bush ’s administration would help strengthen
a U.S. economy still in need of stimulus.  
 “In the short term I would believe that we ought to
maintain a reasonable degree of fiscal support, stimulus for the
economy,” Bernanke said today in testimony before the House
Financial Services Committee. “There are many ways to do that.
This is one way.”  
 Bernanke aims to bolster the faltering economic recovery
while urging lawmakers to reduce federal budget deficits in the
medium term, which he defined today as the period from 2013 to
2020. His predecessor,  Alan Greenspan , last week said lawmakers
should allow the tax cuts to expire at the end of 2010, citing a
need for the revenue to reduce the budget gap.  
 “We need to be taking steps to reassure the American
people and the markets that our fiscal situation is going to be
well controlled,” Bernanke said under questioning from
Representative  Spencer Bachus  of Alabama, the committee’s senior
Republican. “That means that if you extend the tax cuts, you
need to find other ways to offset them.”  
 Bernanke, in the second day of semiannual congressional
testimony on monetary policy, said the central bank will act to
spur growth should the economy sputter. A top lieutenant, New
York Fed President  William Dudley , said today that the “road to
recovery is turning out to be a bit bumpy.”  
 Three Options  
 The Fed chief reiterated three central bank options for
further steps, including giving more information on the Fed’s
commitment to low  interest rates , reducing the rate paid on
banks’ reserves held at the Fed and buying more securities.  
 “There is an implicit message from various Fed speakers
that monetary policy is less useful now than most times,” said
 Tom Gallagher , senior managing director at International
Strategy & Investment Group in Washington. “It is a fair
inference that Bernanke thinks it would be good to avoid fiscal
restraint rather than have more monetary ease if the outlook for
2011 is poor.”  
 While Democrats and Republicans alike want to keep the 2001
and 2003 tax reductions for families earning up to $250,000,
President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats want to end
the break for those who earn more. Republicans, contending a
recovery from recession is no time to raise taxes, insist on
continuing the Bush-era cuts for high-income people as well.  
 Keeping the Cuts  
 Budget rules adopted by Congress earlier this year allow
lawmakers to extend the middle-income tax cuts without
offsetting revenue increases. Keeping the cuts for households
earning less than $250,000 will cost about $255 billion a year,
according to the Joint Committee on Taxation. There are 130
million such households, the Internal Revenue Service estimates.  
 There is no similar budgetary escape hatch that would let
Republicans extend the tax cuts for the wealthy. They must find
$55 billion in revenue to make up for the cost of keeping top
marginal rates at 35 percent and dividend and capital gains
taxes at 15 percent, among other reductions.  
 Bernanke, 56, a former Princeton University economics
professor, didn’t say which party’s position he favored or
whether Congress should find a way to offset extending just the
middle-income cuts.  
 ‘Real Pain’  
 “The real pain will be in his suggestion that over the
long term they need to be paid for,” said  Clint Stretch ,
managing principal of tax policy for Deloitte Tax LLC and a
former congressional attorney. “That will play very strongly
into the hands of those people who want to extend the Bush tax
cuts for a year or two and kick the whole issue of deficit
reduction down the road.”  
 Appointed a Fed governor by Bush in 2002, Bernanke was
named chairman of Bush’s Council of Economic Advisers in 2005
and became Fed chief in 2006. Obama, elected in 2008,
reappointed Bernanke to a second four-year term that began in
February.  
 “In an ideal world, I agree with him,” House Majority
Leader  Steny Hoyer , a Maryland Democrat, said in an interview
when asked about Bernanke’s remarks.  
 Asked whether the combination of Bernanke’s and Greenspan’s
comments would have an impact on the debate, Hoyer said, “It’ll
have some effect. But with all due respect, Mr. Greenspan didn’t
share that in ‘01 when he could have had a real effect, and we
wouldn’t be in this pickle.”  
 ‘Let Them Lapse’  
 Greenspan, 84, whose backing of Bush’s 2001 tax cuts helped
persuade Congress to pass them, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations with  Judy Woodruff ” last
week that Congress “should follow the law and let them lapse.”
Ending the cuts “probably will” slow growth, Greenspan said.  
 Ohio Senator  George Voinovich , a Republican, said
Bernanke’s comments validate his own views. “Either you pay for
it, or you don’t do it,” Voinovich told reporters today. He
said he didn’t know whether Bernanke’s comments would help
persuade other senators to see it his way.  
 Yesterday, White House economic adviser  Larry Summers 
rejected Republican arguments for extending the Bush
administration’s tax cuts for high-income families. The
reductions are a “relatively inefficacious measure for pushing
the economy forward,” Summers, director of the White House
National Economic Council, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  
 Bernanke bristled at comments from Representative  David Scott , a Georgia Democrat, who said he hasn’t seen
“aggressiveness” by the Fed to meet its congressional mandate
for maximum employment, in addition to the objectives for stable
prices and moderate long-term interest rates.  
 The chairman said the Fed takes “very seriously” its
responsibility to reduce high unemployment and has already
pushed its stimulus to a record. Congress has the ability to
authorize more spending for stimulus, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve, delivers his semiannual monetary policy report to the House Financial Services Committee in Washington, D.C. Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
