-- Bernanke's Fed Exit Door Now Swings Two Ways: Caroline Baum
-- Caroline Baum
-- 2010-07-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bernanke-s-fed-exit-door-now-swings-two-ways-caroline-baum.html

          
          
             On March 25, 2010, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  went before the House Financial Services
Committee to outline  exit strategies , or tools the central bank
could use to drain the $1 trillion of excess reserves held by
the banking system. At the time, financial markets were focused
on whether the Fed would be able to bottle up those reserves,
once the economy improved, to prevent an inflationary expansion
of credit.  
 Yesterday, Bernanke was back on Capitol Hill to deliver the
Fed’s  semiannual report  on monetary policy and the economy.
There is to be no exit, at least in the near-term. There is no
new exit strategy other than the one previously disclosed.
(Speculation the Fed would lower or eliminate the interest rate
it pays on reserves turned out to be just that.) And that exit
door he talked about four months ago? It has “enter or exit”
written on it now.  
 “We remain prepared to take further policy actions as
needed to foster a return to full utilization of our nation’s
productive potential in a context of price stability,” Bernanke
told the Senate Banking Committee yesterday, reiterating an
option the Fed discussed at its June 22-23 meeting.  
 What’s changed between March and July to increase the risks
to the economy and thus temper the Fed’s outlook for a self-
sustaining recovery?  
 For starters, the stock  market  is lower, credit spreads are
wider and financial conditions are less supportive, all of which
Bernanke mentioned in his testimony.  
 Economic Whiplash  
 Unlike his predecessor, Bernanke steers clear of fiscal
policy, addressing  deficits  and debt in the broadest of terms
without recommending specific tax and spending initiatives. If
he had wanted to stray from the reservation, he could have told
his audience fiscal policies were producing whiplash -- in both
the economy and the Fed’s outlook for it.  
 Housing, for example, fell out of bed once the government’s
homebuyer tax credit expired on April 20. New  home sales 
plummeted to an annual rate of 300,000 in May, the lowest on
record. Homebuilder sentiment slumped in June and July,
according to the National Association of Homebuilders, auguring
further declines in sales. (The  NAHB Index  includes measures of
sales, traffic and expectations of future sales and generally
leads the complex of housing indicators.)  
 Retail sales sputtered in the spring, along with consumer
confidence. Cash for clunkers produced auto sales then (last
year) instead of now.  
 Forecasting Risk  
 At their June meeting, Fed officials downgraded their
forecast for economic growth and inflation and job growth. None
of the changes were material. The Fed now expects, on average,
an  unemployment rate  of 7.5 percent at the end of 2012, real GDP
growth of 4 percent and inflation of 1.4 percent.  
 A double-dip recession isn’t part of the Fed’s forecast
(neither was the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression). Nor is deflation a “near-term risk for the United
States,” Bernanke said in the Q&A, citing stable  inflation
expectations . (What if those expectations are wrong?) Bernanke
said the Fed has options, albeit unconventional ones, if those
forecasts turn out to be wrong. He specified expanding the Fed’s
balance sheet, reducing the interest rate on excess reserves and
committing to low interest rates (an extended “extended
period”).  
 In early April, fed funds futures were priced for a 50-
basis-point increase by year end. Now the likelihood of a first
rate increase has been pushed off until September 2011.  
 As recently as the June 22-23 meeting, Fed policy makers
were discussing a return to a Treasuries-only portfolio,
according to the meeting minutes. A few participants preferred
the return be sooner; most opted for later, after the Fed starts
to raise short-term rates.  
 Portfolio Analysis  
 Bernanke provided an update on the Fed’s portfolio
yesterday even as the time frame for normalization seemed to
float forward.  
 Currently only one-third of the Fed’s assets are  Treasury
securities  compared with 100 percent prior to September 2008. At
the same time, courtesy of the Fed’s $1.25 trillion mortgage-
backed securities purchase program, the average maturity of the
Fed’s portfolio has doubled to seven years, which will restrain
the Fed’s profit (turned over to the Treasury) in a rising
interest-rate environment.  
 Some policy makers are anxious to return to a Treasuries-
only policy and get out of the credit business. That’s how it
should be: the Fed providing  reserves  to the banking system in a
neutral fashion without picking winners and losers.  
 My concern is there will never be a good time to shed
mortgage assets. The housing recovery will be a multiyear
process, once it stops going down. Who wants to rock the boat?  
 Finding the entrance is easy. The hard part is walking
through the exit door.  
 ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        