-- Billionaire Komarov's Soviet Pipemaker Plans Revival With Theatrical Touch
-- Ilya Khrennikov
-- 2010-07-23T16:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/billionaire-komarov-s-soviet-pipemaker-plans-revival-with-theatrical-touch.html

          
          
             ChelPipe Group, once the largest
maker of steel pipes in Russia and now weighed down by $2.5
billion of debt, is preparing a dramatic recovery. Literally.  
 Billionaire  owner and onetime theater administrator  Andrei Komarov  plans to double capacity and boost productivity with a
new $700 million plant, the introduction of  Toyota Motor Corp. -
style efficiency methods and an eye for the spectacular.  
 “It was Mr. Komarov’s idea to paint gold all technological
equipment at the new mill so it would resemble the mechanism of
a giant Swiss watch,” said  Sergei Moiseev , chief financial
officer of the supplier to gas-export monopoly  OAO Gazprom .  
 The plant, tagged by ChelPipe as Russia’s most modern, came
under the scrutiny of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  when he
visited today. “It felt as if I were in the theater or in
Disneyland,” he said after entering the site. “It’s great.”  
 Komarov, 43, needs more than chutzpah and the support of
Putin to revive a business that like other Communist-era
producers has lost sales to nimbler rivals. ChelPipe, which
dates back to 1942, slipped to third place among Russia’s
biggest pipemakers last year behind United Metallurgical Co., as
its market share shrank to 16.5 percent from 22.7 percent in
2005 and about 70 percent in Soviet times.  
 The billionaire, who made his mark trading goods from cars
to lingerie and is now deputy chairman of parliament’s natural
resources committee, is counting on a doubling in demand from
 Gazprom , which is building the 760-mile Nord Stream natural-gas
line linking Europe to Russia under the Baltic Sea.  
 ‘Ride the Surge’  
 To commit to that wager, Komarov almost doubled ChelPipe’s
debt in the past three years, funding the pipe factory and a new
steel plant to make the company self-sufficient in the metal.  
 “We plan to ride the surge in orders with our new mill and
to pay back investments quickly,” Moiseev said. Komarov wasn’t
available for comment when Bloomberg News called his office at
the Russian parliament’s Federation Council.  
 The company’s plans to start up the pipe facility, with an
annual output capacity of 600,000 metric tons, were pushed back
to today from last year by the world economic slump. ChelPipe
cut production 23 percent in 2009 in response to the crisis.  
 “It would’ve been nice for ChelPipe to have this new
facility in place half a year ago when tenders on pipe supplies
for Russia’s major pipeline projects were held,” VTB Capital
analyst  Olga Danilenko  said in Moscow. “Contracts to supply the
second stage of Nord Stream have been awarded. Things will
depend on whether Gazprom and Transneft will approve new large
pipeline projects in the second half of 2011.”  
 TMK Growth  
 Rivals such as  OAO TMK , Russia’s biggest steel-pipe maker,
and OAO Vyksa Steel Works have large-diameter pipe orders booked
until mid-2011 and are running at full capacity, while ChelPipe
risks being under-utilized in the “short term,” she said.  
 Vyksa, United Metallurgical’s biggest unit, said first-half
output jumped a third, with large-diameter pipes for Gazprom and
 OAO Transneft , the national oil pipeline company, up 36 percent.  
 TMK  said on Jan. 29 it would spend about $1.1 billion on
plants by 2012. It will increase capacity for seamless pipes to
3.4 million tons and for large-diameter ones to 1.2 million
tons, the company said in a presentation during Russian
President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s visit to its Taganrog factory.  
 The global recession also strained borrowings at ChelPipe,
which refinanced debt from Russia’s OAO Sberbank and received
state guarantees for 5 billion rubles ($164 million) of loans.
Komarov and his partners also sold a 58 percent stake in OAO
Chelyabinsk Zinc Plant.  
 Build From Scratch  
 Still, the billionaire has shown an ability to build a
fortune from scratch, while innovating with management ideas new
to Russia. After three years as chief administrator for the
Satyricon Theater in Moscow from the age of 23, he made money
trading goods and began buying workers’ shares in the assets of
ChelPipe, building those into a 40 percent stake by 1997. He
also became Russia’s largest developer of golf courses.  
 Komarov’s listed Chelyabinsk Pipe Works, which controls his
biggest mill, rose 56 percent in Moscow trade in the past year.  
 Even the all-white overalls for the 1,400 workers at the
new plant are part of his attempt to instill the Japanese ethos
of continuous improvement, or “Kaizen,” to involve staff in
increasing efficiency and generating ideas.  
 ‘Exotic Designs’  
 “It felt like a medical production. Everybody was wearing
white,” Putin said on his visit. “It’s external, but still a
sign of the production culture.”  
 The factory, where employees get meals prepared by a chef
trained in Spain as well as programs to quit smoking, is
surrounded by groomed lawns.  
 “The exotic designs at ChelPipe may be good from the
standpoint of corporate culture but are unlikely to boost
sales,” IFC Metropol analyst  Andrey Lobazov  said in Moscow.  
 Whether ChelPipe doubles output, Komarov isn’t alone in
forecasting burgeoning demand. Use of large-diameter pipes, the
most profitable segment, will grow to as much as 3 million tons
by 2012 from 1.4 million tons last year, according to Russia’s
Pipe Industry Development Fund.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       ChelPipe which dates back to 1942  
                       
                         
                           ChelPipe Group via Bloomberg 
                         
                         Russian billionaire and controller of Chelyabinsk Pipe Works Andrei Komarov. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russian billionaire and controller of Chelyabinsk Pipe Works Andrei Komarov. Source: ChelPipe Group via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The Chelyabinsk Pipe Works. Source: ChelPipe Group via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
