-- Blagojevich Judge Says He'll Rule on Dismissal Bid After Closing Arguments
-- Andrew M. Harris
-- 2010-07-22T17:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/blagovevich-judge-says-he-ll-rule-on-dismissal-bid-after-closing-arguments.html

          
          
             The judge in the  Rod Blagojevich 
trial will wait until after lawyers’ closing arguments to rule
on the ex-Illinois governor’s request to throw out the case.  
 U.S. District Judge  James B. Zagel  in Chicago said today
that while he is “unpersuaded” by some defense arguments, he
isn’t ready to rule. Zagel heard arguments from both sides today
and yesterday on whether the government’s entire case against
Blagojevich and his brother is strong enough to go to a jury.  
 “My mind can be changed by what happens in closing
arguments,” the judge said.  
 Blagojevich, 53, is accused of tying official acts,
including the selection of a U.S. senator from Illinois to
replace President  Barack Obama , to requests for campaign
contributions and personal favors.  
 A 24-count indictment includes charges of wire fraud,
racketeering, attempted extortion and extortion conspiracy. Each
carries a maximum sentence of 20 years’ imprisonment.  
 The ex-governor’s brother, Robert Blagojevich , 54, is a
codefendant on four counts. He led the governor’s campaign
finance committee in 2008.  
 The elder brother rested his defense on July 20 after
testifying for two days. Lawyers for Rod Blagojevich yesterday
ended their case also, telling Zagel they would call neither him
nor any other witness. His lawyer Sam Adam Jr. told jurors at
the start of the trial that Blagojevich would testify.  
 Innocence ‘Proved’  
 “The government, in their case, proved my innocence,” the
ex-governor told reporters in the courthouse after yesterday’s
announcement. “They proved that I did nothing illegal.”  
 Two onetime Blagojevich chiefs of staff, Alonzo “Lon”
Monk and  John Harris , testified in support of prosecutors’ claim
that the governor and some close advisers sought to profit from
his office.  
 Monk and Harris separately pleaded guilty to single
criminal charges and agreed to cooperate with the government.  
 Lobbyist John Wyma, who had worked for Blagojevich in
Congress, took the stand under a grant of immunity.  
 “I was increasingly alarmed by the level of
aggressiveness,” Wyma said of the drive to raise money.  
 Defense lawyers told the judge yesterday and today that
much of the government’s evidence merely showed the defendants
held discussions and proved no action.  
 “What they’ve shown is a lot of talk,” Lauren Kaeseberg,
a lawyer for the former governor, said yesterday.  
 “Conspiracy is a crime,” Zagel responded. “You can have
a conspiracy entered into with fools and bumblers, and it’s
still a conspiracy.”  
 The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08-cr-00888, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  at the federal courthouse in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        