-- Boeing Blocks GE, Philips Wireless Spectrum for Patient Monitoring Device
-- Christopher Flavelle
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/boeing-blocks-ge-philips-wireless-spectrum-for-patient-monitoring-device.html

          
          
             Technology companies led by  General
Electric Co.  want to revolutionize the nascent medical-
monitoring industry by taking to the airwaves. Standing in the
way is Boeing Co.  
 GE’s health-care unit has asked the Federal Communications
Commission to allow devices that transmit patients’ vital signs
to share the 2360MHz to 2400MHz range of the electromagnetic
spectrum, now used by Chicago-based Boeing to test the safety of
planes. It’s the only section of the spectrum where remote
monitoring would be cost-effective, according to GE Healthcare.  
 Boeing , the largest U.S. aircraft maker, is urging the FCC
not to allow new uses of the space. Transmitting medical signals
on the spectrum would interfere with flight-test data, causing
delays that would cost $50,000 an hour, said Audrey Allison, the
company’s frequency-management services director. The disputed
bandwidth may bring the U.S. as much as $6 billion should the
FCC decide to auction it, said Coleman Bazelon, an industry
consultant at  Brattle Group  in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  
 “This is a technical issue, and they’ll have to battle it
out,” said  Robert Litan , an economist and Internet policy
expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington. “It might
look like a fight about spectrum, but at the end of the day,
it’s all about money.”  
 U.S. airwaves transmit everything from television signals
and mobile-phone calls to FM radio and military communications.
The airwaves are sliced into different frequencies, or bands,
for specific uses so your phone call doesn’t interfere with a
top-secret spy mission, for example.  
 Public Safety  
 The FCC is reallocating portions of the spectrum to unclog
wireless communications networks and enhance public safety,
selling off large chunks in auctions that have yielded billions
of dollars for the U.S. Treasury.  
 The band used by Boeing and coveted by GE may be worth $3
billion to $6 billion at auction, Bazelon said. Whether the FCC
will even hold an auction isn’t known.  
 The agency will hold a public meeting with the Food and
Drug Administration July 26 and 27 to discuss using the airwaves
for remote monitoring. The systems wirelessly register vital
statistics, such as heart rate or blood-oxygen saturation.  
 The technology, already used in some hospitals, promises to
cut costly doctor visits for millions of patients by allowing
blood pressure, heart rates and other vital signs to be checked
at a distance, potentially saving lives and billions of dollars.  
 The devices “measure physiological signals continuously,”
said Munesh Makhija, general manager of systems and wireless at
 GE Healthcare , based in Chalfont St. Giles, in the U.K. near
London. They would “make work flow a lot more productive for
the hospital,” he said in an interview.  
 Cost Savings  
 Wireless monitoring would make it simpler to keep tabs on
patients, especially those who can’t or won’t report on their
own, Makhija said. Such systems have the potential to generate
cost savings for the health system, he said.  
 Cutting down on the equipment used to monitor health also
can aid infection control, since “you would not have to clean
and re-clean cables, tubes and connectors,” Makhija said.  
 An analysis by Litan of Brookings estimated that remote
monitoring technologies may save as much as $197 billion in
health-care costs over 25 years.  
 “It’s a really enticing technology,” said Bernie Liebler,
director of technology and regulatory affairs at the  Advanced
Medical Technology Association , a Washington-based industry
group. “This would allow that kind of continuous monitoring
while people are walking around” and carrying out normal day-
to-day activities, he said.  
 Question of Power  
 When the agency first opened discussion on use of the
spectrum, it suggested alternative bands for medical monitoring.
GE Healthcare said those options are unworkable.  
 “Chips operating at those frequencies consume too much
power,” making them too costly to develop and implement widely,
said Neal Seidl, a wireless architect at GE Healthcare.  
 Boeing, which says it needs exclusive use of the spectrum
to ensure the safety of millions of travelers who fly on its
airplanes, expects a decision from the FCC “in the next few
months,” Allison said in a May interview.  
 The FCC has no set date on deciding on GE Healthcare’s
request,  Julius Knapp , chief of the commission’s office of
engineering and technology, said in an interview.  
 International Business Machines Corp.  of Armonk, New York,
Royal Philips Electronics NV of Amsterdam, and Nordic
Semiconductor ASA of Trondheim, Norway, are also developing
technologies to transmit a continuous flow of health information
using the spectrum space.  
 Monitoring Market  
 An FCC decision to make the spectrum available for medical
use would boost development of remote monitoring, a market
expected to reach $4.6 billion in annual revenue by 2014,
according to  TMNG Global , a consulting company based in Overland
Park, Kansas.  
 If the FCC rules in favor of GE Healthcare, Boeing would
pursue its legal options, Allison said. She declined to say what
those choices might be. Agency decisions can be challenged in
court.  
 “We’re optimistic that we will find a workable solution,
because it’s so important to protect our ability to do flight
tests in the U.S.,” Allison said.  
 Remote-monitoring devices have potential for widespread use
and significant savings for the U.S. health-care system,
compared with only a limited use in aircraft testing, said
Preston Marshall, director of wireless networking at the
University of Southern California’s  Viterbi School of
Engineering , in Los Angeles.  
 “We’re talking a few people who do telemetry or testing,
versus potentially everyone’s grandmother,” Marshall said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sophia Yan  at   sophiayan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Flavelle  at 
 cflavelle@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Bandwidth Spectrum  
                       
                         
                           
                         
                         A specific bandwidth spectrum could be used for wireless medical monitoring. Illustration: David Rogowski/Bloomberg 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A specific bandwidth spectrum could be used for wireless medical monitoring. Illustration: David Rogowski/Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         
             Chart:  Savings From Remote Monitoring
         
     
 


                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Boeing 777 Test Flight  
                       
                         
                           Stephen Brashear/Getty Images 
                         
                         The 2360Mh to 2400Mh range of spectrum is currently used almost exclusively by Boeing to transmit flight test data. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The 2360Mh to 2400Mh range of spectrum is currently used almost exclusively by Boeing to transmit flight test data. Photographer: Stephen Brashear/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
