-- BofA Mortgage Liquidations May Jump on Insurance Unit's Sale, Goodman Says
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-22T14:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bofa-mortgage-liquidations-may-jump-on-insurance-unit-sale-goodman-says.html

          
          
             Bank of America Corp. ’s plan to sell
the insurance unit it acquired with Countrywide Financial Corp.
may result in it liquidating properties faster after homeowners
stop paying on debt underlying  mortgage  bonds, according to
Amherst Securities Group analyst  Laurie Goodman .  
 Loans underlying Countrywide’s securities without
government-backed guarantees have been slower to liquidate than
those managed by other servicers, according to analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Barclays Plc and Amherst, an Austin,
Texas-based broker of securitized debt.  
 The biggest reason stems from Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, as the servicer, being able to install
its  Balboa Insurance  unit’s home coverage after borrowers turn
delinquent, Goodman said in a telephone interview. It continues
to fund policies until a property  sale , boosting its revenue
while potentially worsening investor losses, she said.  
 “It means they’re not in any hurry to liquidate because
they’re getting the above-market rates on their insurance,”
said Goodman, who was inducted into the Fixed Income Analysts
Society’s Hall of Fame last year. Without the conflict, there
will be “a considerable difference” in Bank of America’s
practices.  
 Slower liquidations typically hurt senior-ranked classes of
mortgage bonds by boosting the size of losses per soured loan
and delaying the return of their principal, while helping junior
slices by extending their payments.  
 FTC Settlement  
 Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  disclosed his
desire to sell Balboa on a July 16 earnings call “because it’s
not a core activity of making mortgages and we’re continuing to
fine-tune the franchise.” He also said its liquidations would
be “elevated,” partly because it has started ending efforts to
help certain borrowers with debt modifications.  
 A sale would follow a  settlement  last month in which the
bank agreed to pay $108 million over Federal Trade Commission
claims that Countrywide overcharged homeowners for “default-
related services,” such as inspections and lawn mowing. Its
units often marked up what vendors charged for the work by 100
percent or more, the FTC said.  
 The agency’s  complaint  and  agreement  with the bank didn’t
mention so-called forced-placed homeowners insurance purchased
on behalf of borrowers to protect loan collateral after
traditional coverage lapses for nonpayment. The agreement barred
it from charging more than the “market rate” for default-
related services.  
 ‘An Obligation’  
 Bank of America “does not have a strategy of delaying
sales of REO properties,”  Rick Simon , a spokesman, said in an
e-mail, using the abbreviation for real-estate owned, meaning
taken by a lender.  
 “The vast majority of  REO  properties serviced by Bank of
America are owned by third-party mortgage investors,” Simon
said. “Within their guidelines and delegation of authority, we
usually have an obligation to prepare and market these
properties expediently, in order to satisfy as much of the
unpaid debt as possible and minimize additional costs associated
with keeping the property.”  
 The bank, which oversees more than $2.1 trillion, became
the largest U.S. servicer by buying Countrywide in 2008 amid the
worst housing collapse since the 1930s, according to newsletter
 National Mortgage News .  
 In a May report, Barclays analysts described Countrywide’s
so-called non-agency mortgage securities as having “abysmally
low liquidation rates.”  
 Liquidation Rates  
 During each month from the 16th through 29th month after
borrowers fall delinquent, for instance, Countrywide has
liquidated less than 2 percent of loans from states other than
California, according to data shown by Goodman during a July 15
industry conference in New York.  
 Other servicers liquidated more than 2 percent of such
loans starting in the 16th month, a figure that climbs to more
than 3 percent by the 29th, the data derived from bond reports
show. Similar disparities exist over different time periods and
for California loans.  
 While this year Countrywide began selling homes faster
after seizing them than average after lagging from 2007, it
remains slower in terms of the time between delinquencies and
foreclosures, and between foreclosures and REO, according to
separate data provided by Amherst.  
 About 3 percent of Countrywide-serviced loans at least 90
days late were put into foreclosure or turned into seized
property in April, compared with more than 10 percent at  San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo & Co. , according to a JPMorgan
report last month that said its “sluggish liquidation process
is by now familiar to non-agency MBS investors.”  
 Role of Servicers  
 After borrowers stop paying, servicers for non-agency
securities advance funds to cover missed payments, and also lay
out cash for items including insurance, taxes, maintenance and
lawyers. Servicers recoup the money out of the proceeds from
sales of homes after foreclosures or in so-called short sales.  
 Countrywide’s slow timelines probably most reflect efforts
to evaluate borrowers for a slew of programs meant to avert
foreclosures,  John Sim , a New York-based JPMorgan analyst, said.  
 They include a federal  program  and changes the bank agreed
to in settling state fraud charges, as well as its own
initiatives turned to only after homeowners can’t qualify for
other plans, he said in a telephone interview.  
 “They’ve been trying to appease the government,” by
keeping borrowers in homes, Sim said. “I just think that’s got
to be the bigger catalyst: They just have so many different
checks and balances related to the modification programs that
they have to go through.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        