-- Bovespa Stock Index Jumps as Central Bank Signals Rate Rises to End Soon
-- Alexander Ragir
-- 2010-07-22T20:48:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bovespa-futures-increase-as-bank-signals-interest-rate-increases-may-end.html

          
          
             Brazil’s  Bovespa  stock index gained
for a fourth day, the longest stretch since April, as the
central bank signaled it may stop raising interest rates soon
after unexpectedly slowing the pace of increases.  
 Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes  led
gains among homebuilders, helping lift a gauge of real-estate
stocks to the highest level this year. Airlines  Tam SA  and  Gol
Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA  climbed more than 3 percent. B2W
Cia. Global do Varejo led gains in retailers, rallying 5
percent. State oil company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA  rose to a one-
month high as crude surged in New York.  
 The  Bovespa  index rose 2 percent to 65,748.10, the highest
level since May 3, at the close of trading in Sao Paulo at 4
p.m. New York time. Fifty-nine stocks gained on the measure
while five fell. The  BM&FBovespa Small Cap  jumped 2.3 percent to
a record-high 1,230.82. The real strengthened 1 percent to
1.7623 per dollar.  
 “A smaller tightening cycle is clearly a positive
environment,” said  Roni Lacerda , who helps manage 2.4 billion
reais ($1.4 billion) at Mercatto Gestao de Recursos in Rio de
Janeiro. “This will benefit retailers, homebuilders and
logistics companies, and any others that are affected by the
domestic economy. You don’t have that environment that penalizes
companies with more leverage and those in credit-sensitive
sectors.”  
 The bank’s board, led by  Henrique Meirelles , increased the
benchmark Selic rate half a point to 10.75 percent yesterday.
The move, which was anticipated by traders in the interest-rate
futures market,  surprised  48 of 51 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. They predicted another 0.75-percentage-point
increase, the same as at the bank’s two previous meetings.  
 Slowing Economy  
 Latin America’s biggest economy shows signs of slowing,
after expanding  9 percent  in the first quarter, the fastest pace
in 15 years.  Consumer prices  fell 0.09 percent in the month
through mid-July, the first drop in four years, the statistics
agency said this week. Policy makers said in a statement
accompanying the decision that inflationary risks have eased.  
 “There is no need to raise interest rates again this
year,” Budget Minister Paulo Bernardo told reporters in
Brasilia today. “Inflation is back under control.”  
 Brazilian unemployment fell more than forecast in June, the
national statistics agency said today. The jobless rate declined
to 7 percent last month, lower than the 7.3 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 34 economists.  
 Cyrela gained 4.1 percent to 22.55 reais as the  BM&FBovespa
Real Estate Index  advanced 3 percent to the highest level since
December.  
 Tam Rises  
 Tam SA , the owner of Brazil’s biggest airline by market
share, rose 4.4 percent, the most in two weeks, to 28.70 reais.
 Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA , the second-biggest, increased
3.8 percent to 23.10 reais. Lojas Americanas SA, Brazil’s
biggest discount retailer, climbed 4.7 percent to 13.98 reais,
while its unit B2W, the biggest Internet retailer, jumped 1.45
reais to 30.30 reais, the biggest gains since May 27.  
 Petrobras , Brazil’s state-controlled oil company, rose 1.8
percent to 27.98 reais, the highest price since June 23.  
 Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA  climbed for a fourth day,
rising 2.1 percent to 28.60 reais. El Economista reported that
the phone company known as Oi would welcome having Portugal
Telecom SGPS SA as one of its shareholders, citing  Alex Zornig ,
Oi’s head of investor relations.  
 Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  is in talks with
Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva over a share swap
between Portugal Telecom and Oi that would allow the companies
to have minority holdings in each other, the newspaper said.  
 The  Bovespa index  trades for 11.8 times analysts’ 2010
earnings estimates, compared with 11.6 times for the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index of 21 developing nations’ stocks and 15.3
times for Mexico’s IPC index, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Bovespa trades at 13.4 times the reported
profits of its companies after fetching 25.5 times in November,
the most in almost six years, weekly data show.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexander Ragir  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        