-- BP Gets U.S. Approval to Keep Gulf Oil Well Capped
-- Jim Polson
-- 2010-07-22T20:46:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bp-gets-indefinite-authorization-from-u-s-to-keep-gulf-oil-well-capped.html

          
          
             BP Plc  can keep its Gulf of Mexico
well capped indefinitely, preventing more crude from adding to
the biggest oil spill in U.S. history, as a tropical storm
approaches.  
 National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said he and U.S.
Energy Secretary  Steven Chu  had “growing confidence” that
pressure readings of the sealed well, along with visual, seismic
and acoustic surveillance, rule out the risk that the cap may
cause other leaks that could erupt into another gusher.  
 The authorization follows more than six days of observation
and comes hours ahead of a decision by Allen on whether the
storm requires evacuation of drilling rigs that are working on a
permanent solution to plug the Macondo well, about 40 miles (64
kilometers) off Louisiana’s coast.  
 “We’re starting to create almost a 3-D model of what the
formation around that well looks like,” Allen told reporters on
a conference call today. “That allows us to rule out
indications there might be a leak.”  
 The U.S. National Hurricane Center issued  storm warnings 
for the Bahamas and Southern Florida today after declaring a
tropical depression has formed east of the Gulf. Storm-force
winds may hit the well area early on July 24, Allen said.  
 Shoreline pollution is the worst threat from the storm, as
winds may drive oil northwestward into Louisiana, Mississippi,
and northeastern Texas,  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy
meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, said
in an interview today.  
 Oiled Shoreline  
 The amount of oiled shoreline almost doubled at the end of
June after storms came through the area, according to government
data. About 626 miles (1,007 kilometers) of coasts in Louisiana,
Mississippi, Alabama and Florida are tarred by oil, the
government said yesterday.  
 Allen, speaking from Theodore, Alabama, said a decision
would be made about 8 p.m. local time today on whether the rig
drilling a relief well intended to plug Macondo next month will
have to begin withdrawing, delaying the procedure until the
storm passes.  
 The Development Driller III was about 5 feet (1.5 meters)
from the damaged well and 100 feet from the planned interception
point when crews withdrew the bit to install a temporary plug,
the first step toward evacuation, BP Senior Vice President for
Exploration and Production  Kent Wells  said yesterday.  
 Monitoring the Site  
 BP has proposed pumping mud into the top of the sealed well
to accelerate the process of plugging it permanently. More work
must be done in the relief well before it will be safe to do
that, Allen said.  
 The decision to keep the well closed is conditional on BP
conducting intensive surveillance of pressure levels and the
area around well, Allen said.  
 Ships operating remote-operated vehicles used for visual
and acoustic monitoring may be able to remain on site through
the storm, because they can operate in seas of 12 feet to 15
feet, he said.  
 Pressure inside the well has risen to 6,863 pounds per
square inch since BP sealed it July 15, indicating oil and gas
is not being forced out elsewhere in the well bore, according to
the company’s  website .  
 BP rose less than a pence to 400 pence at 4:35 p.m. local
time in London. It has fallen 39 percent since the well blew out
April 20, destroying the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and
killing 11 workers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Thad Allen BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Cap  
                       
                         
                           Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images 
                         
                         BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill National Incident Commander Retired Coast Guard Adm. Thad Allen answers reporters' questions while standing next to an illustration of the well cap stack. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill National Incident Commander Retired Coast Guard Adm. Thad Allen answers reporters' questions while standing next to an illustration of the well cap stack.  Photographer: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
