-- BP's Relief Well Project Delayed by Brewing Storm
-- Alex Morales
-- 2010-07-22T16:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bp-s-efforts-to-permanently-plug-leaking-well-threatened-by-brewing-storm.html

          
          
             BP Plc ’s efforts in the Gulf of
Mexico to permanently stop the biggest oil spill in U.S. history
were delayed by a storm building over the Bahamas.  
 BP installed a cement plug yesterday as a precaution in a
relief well that’s been drilled to within about five feet (1.5
meters) of the damaged Macondo well, Senior Vice President  Kent Wells  told reporters on a conference call. The U.S. National
Hurricane Center said today the storm has developed into a
tropical depression and warnings have been issued for the
Bahamas and southern Florida.  
 Storms may force crews to evacuate the site, where the
gusher has been stopped provisionally since July 15, after
London-based BP closed valves on a new containment cap. National
Incident Commander  Thad Allen  said yesterday evacuation would
need to start about 5 days before a storm hits and would mean a
10- to 14-day “gap” in operations at the site.  
 “Today is their go, no-go day” for deciding on
evacuation,  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, said in an interview
today. “Storm-force winds will definitely get up to the BP well
site by early next week.”  
 Shoreline pollution is the worst threat from the storm, as
winds may drive oil northwestward into Louisiana, Mississippi,
and northeastern Texas, Rouiller said. The amount of oiled
shoreline almost doubled at the end of June after storms swept
the area, according to government data. About 626 miles (1,007
kilometers) of coasts in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and
Florida were tarred, the government said  yesterday .  
 Well Integrity  
 BP rose less than a pence to 400 pence at 4:35 p.m. in
London trading. The stock is down 39 percent since the Deepwater
Horizon rig exploded on April 20, killing 11 workers and
triggering the leak.  
 The company closed the valves to test the well’s integrity,
and it’s monitoring for leaks that might signal problems as
pressure builds within the well. No decision has been made on
whether it’s safe to keep the well sealed, Allen said.  
 The official track shows it strengthening into a tropical
storm in the next day and going through the Gulf south of
Louisiana this weekend. It is expected to come ashore near the
Louisiana-Texas border this weekend, according to hurricane
center  maps .  
 Winds in a tropical storm have to be at least 39 miles per
hour and can reach as intense as 73 mph.  
 ‘Static Kill’  
 BP  said yesterday it would keep the Macondo well sealed for
another day as it seeks government permission to attempt to pump
mud into the top to help permanently stop the oil flow. Pressure
inside the well has risen to 6,863 pounds per square inch since
it was sealed, indicating oil and gas isn’t being forced out
elsewhere, BP said today in a statement on its website.  
 The company has to install the last cement casing in the
relief well before it can begin pumping mud into the well, Allen
said yesterday. Cement casing protects the well hole from
collapsing. Casing work has been postponed by insertion of the
storm plug, Wells said yesterday.  
 BP plans to permanently plug the leaking well from the
bottom with cement coming from the relief well next month, Allen
said. Government experts are examining a proposal, known as
“static kill,” that would involve also injecting mud into the
top of the well.  
 “If it’s approved, there’s a 100 percent chance we’ll go
ahead with it,”  Wells  told reporters on July 20. “Working in
tandem, these could have the well killed in less time. It’s
worth the time and effort.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Swint  in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Morales  in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Don Van Nieuwenhuise, director of Petroleum Geoscience Programs at the University of Houston, discusses pressure readings at BP Plc's sealed Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Van Nieuwenhuise talks with Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
