-- BP Said to Turn to StanChart's Lovegrove For Advice in Apache Negotiations
-- Zachary R. Mider
-- 2010-07-22T22:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bp-said-to-turn-to-stanchart-s-lovegrove-for-advice-in-apache-negotiations.html

          
          
             BP Plc  turned to  Standard Chartered
Plc  Vice Chairman  Martin Lovegrove  for advice on the second-
biggest divestiture in the company’s history, the agreement this
week to sell $7 billion of assets to  Apache Corp ., according to
people familiar with the negotiations.  
 Lovegrove worked on the Apache deal with a team including
Geraldine Murphy, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the talks were private. Lovegrove joined
Standard Chartered in 2007 when the bank acquired his London-
based advisory firm, Harrison Lovegrove & Co.  
 Standard Chartered  is among at least a half-dozen banks
that have advised London-based BP since the Deepwater Horizon
rig exploded in the Gulf of Mexico, the people said. The blast
on April 20 killed 11 workers and created the biggest oil spill
in U.S. history. BP announced July 20 that it would sell oil and
gas fields in the U.S., Canada and Egypt to Houston-based Apache
to raise cash to meet the costs of the spill.  
 Firms assisting BP on other matters include  Blackstone
Group LP ,  Credit Suisse AG ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,  Morgan
Stanley  and  UBS AG , according to people.  
 Apache is getting financing and advice from Goldman Sachs,
where  William Montgomery  and Rusty Kelley are leading the team,
the people said. Goldman Sachs in April helped Apache reach a
deal to buy Mariner Energy Inc. for $2.7 billion.  
 Also advising Apache are  Bank of America Corp.’s   Scott Van Bergh  and  Andrew Castaldo  and Citigroup Inc.’s  Peter Tague  and
 Christopher Miller , according to the people.  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  also played a role,
along with a team including  Jimmy Elliot ,  Doug Petno ,  Jeremy Wilson ,  Laurence Whittemore  and Paschall Tosch, the people said.  
 The Apache sale is BP’s biggest after its 2005 deal to sell
the Innovene chemicals unit to Ineos Group Holdings Inc. for $9
billion. BP used Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley on that
transaction, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        