-- BP Spill Tars Hackett's Anadarko Deepwater Drilling Success
-- Stanley Reed
-- 2010-07-22T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bp-spill-tars-hackett-s-anadarko-success-built-on-deepwater-drilling-finds.html

          
          
             James T. Hackett , chief executive
officer of  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , thought he was making a
routine decision when he decided to buy a 25 percent share of BP
Plc’s Macondo well last December.  
 Anadarko was already a partner with BP in the nearby
Pompano platform, which would pump the oil to shore, so
developing a new field nearby made good economic sense. The well
looked relatively simple, and Hackett said he had no reason to
doubt the capabilities of BP, one of the world’s most
experienced deepwater drillers.  
 “This is something that, with any kind of reasonable
practices, should have been able to be drilled without a
problem,” he said in an interview at Houston’s River Oaks
Country Club.  
 But in the oil industry, even the easy jobs are high risk.
On April 20, the Deepwater Horizon rig drilling the well was
rocked by an explosion and later sank in the Gulf of Mexico.
Suddenly, everything changed for Anadarko, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its July 26 issue.  
 Under Hackett, the  company had grown  from a laggard to a
star among medium-sized oil and gas players. His strategy:
super-charging Anadarko’s reliable oil and gas production on the
U.S. mainland with successful wildcat exploration in the deep
waters of the Gulf of Mexico, and off West Africa and Brazil.
That appetite for risk turned Anadarko into one of the premier
oil exploration companies.  
 Growth Plans  
 Now Anadarko’s ambitious growth plans and perhaps its
existence are threatened. Unless it can find a way out, its
share of cleanup costs, fines, and victims’ claims could easily
add up to billions of dollars. Analysts said obligations that
large are likely to put a crimp on the investment  capital  needed
to meet Hackett’s 7 percent to 9 percent annual production
growth targets.  
 Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, has a market value
of about $23 billion, down more than $13 billion since April 20,
and had $3.7 billion in cash as of March 31. Some estimates put
total spill-related costs at as much as $60 billion, meaning
Anadarko’s share would be $15 billion, assuming it had to pay 25
percent. That sort of tab “would grind the whole company pretty
much to a halt for a while,” says  Philip Dodge , an analyst at
Tuohy Brothers.  
 Anadarko’s predicament could turn into a watershed event
for the oil and gas business. Exploration companies drilling in
U.S. waters and elsewhere have assumed their drilling expertise
minimized risks. Instead, it has become clear since the well
blowout and subsequent spill that BP and its partners face huge
liabilities they never anticipated.  
 West Africa  
 Companies such as Anadarko have fueled the push into
frontier areas from the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico to
offshore West Africa, where Anadarko owns 23.5 percent of the
massive Jubilee discovery, estimated to hold as much as a
billion barrels of oil. If the consequences of the Gulf spill
end up endangering Anadarko’s financial health, however, that
could scare away other independent oil companies from pursuing
the kind of lucrative-but-risky drilling that led to the BP
spill.  
 Hackett said he still believes deepwater drilling can be
done safely. After staying mum for two months, he lashed out on
June 18, blaming the accident on BP’s lapses. He said the oil
giant’s actions “likely represent gross negligence or willful
misconduct.” Anadarko also has refused to pay a charge of
$272 million that BP has billed the company for its share of the
cleanup costs. The spill had nothing to do with Anadarko,
Hackett said, and was “caused by bad decisions on the rig floor
and bad adherence to technical advice.”  
 Fires Back  
 BP has fired back, saying the co-owners of the Macondo
well, which also includes Japan’s Mitsui Oil Exploration Co.,
were hardly in the dark about what was going on. In fact they
“were involved in approving certain key decisions relating to
the well,” including its design, BP said in a statement. Mitsui
Oil, which owns a 10 percent stake in Macondo, said it’s
reviewing BP’s claims and is withholding reimbursement to BP of
expenses other than costs not related to the incident.  
 BP’s well design has been criticized by some engineers and
other oil company executives as inadequate for a deepwater well
like Macondo, which was drilled in a field known for high
pressures.  
 ‘Engineers Explain’  
 “If I’d seen that, I would have asked my company’s
drilling engineers to explain to me why we’re doing it this way,
because it doesn’t look right,” said  Don Van Nieuwenhuise ,
director of petroleum geoscience programs at the University of
Houston.  
 John Brock , an Anadarko shareholder and the former chairman
of Ocean Energy, a company that merged with one run by Hackett
in the 1990s, says the BP-Anadarko spat will likely change oil
industry practices concerning oversight of jointly owned well
projects. For years, a project’s operator has made decisions,
“and you just don’t look over his shoulder that closely,”
Brock says. Anadarko likely saw an attractive prospect in owning
a piece of Macondo without having to get its engineering people
fully involved, he said.  “They got enough fires going on in
their own house to take care of to think about that.”  
 Fadel Gheit , an Oppenheimer & Co. analyst who lauds
Hackett’s business skill, said he believes Hackett’s very public
dispute with BP should have been handled privately.  
 ‘Car Crash’  
 “You’re in a car crash, and you’re fighting with one
another,” he said. “Let’s try to get out of the ditch first
before we say who’s to blame for putting us in this ditch.”  
 Arthur Berman, a geologist who worked for Amoco until it
was acquired by BP, said Hackett’s attack might be part of a
legal strategy. The joint operating agreement between BP and
Anadarko calls for disputes to be resolved through arbitration,
which should be faster and cheaper than going to court. BP and
Anadarko also could reach a settlement.  
 Until the Gulf spill, Hackett, a Harvard MBA, had been an
oil industry star who always seemed to make the right move.  
 “He is one of the best guys out there,” said Paul
Anderson, a BP board member and former chief executive officer
of BHP Billiton.  
 Potential Successor  
 Anderson hired Hackett as his potential successor as CEO in
the mid-1990s at pipeline company PanEnergy. After PanEnergy was
acquired by what’s now Duke Energy, Hackett left to run Seagull
Energy in 1998. Less than three months later he agreed to merge
his new roost with Ocean Energy. Even then, Hackett figured
there was money to be made in the deep waters of the Gulf of
Mexico and off Africa, and he pushed his company to increase its
presence there.  
 “It was a high-risk, high-reward sort of strategy, and it
worked because he got the right people,” said  John Schiller , a
former Ocean executive.  
 When Hackett took the job at Anadarko in 2003, the company
was missing its financial targets and was rumored to be a
takeover prospect. After quickly righting the ship, Hackett
announced his boldest moves: The $21 billion takeovers of Kerr-
McGee and Western Gas Resources in 2006, which added deep­water
properties in the Gulf of Mexico and natural-gas fields in the
Rocky Mountain region.  
 Some investors panned the moves early on. Yet rising oil
prices helped the deals pay off, and Hackett’s reputation
soared.  
 “He’s taken a company that is mid-sized and really turned
it almost into a junior major,” said  Bruce Bullock , director of
the Maguire Energy Institute at Southern Methodist University’s
Cox School of Business. Now Hackett just has to keep it that
way.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
 Stanley Reed  in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Anadarko Petroleum Corp. President & CEO James T. Hackett. Photographer: Craig Hartley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
