-- BP to Keep Macondo Oil Well Shut as Storm Delays Relief Well
-- Katarzyna Klimasinska
-- 2010-07-22T22:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/bp-will-keep-macondo-gulf-well-capped-as-tropical-storm-delays-relief-well.html

          
          
             BP Plc  can keep its Gulf of Mexico
well capped indefinitely, preventing more crude from adding to
the biggest oil spill in U.S. history, as a tropical storm
approaches.  
 The authorization from National Incident Commander  Thad Allen  follows more than six days of observation and comes hours
ahead of a decision on whether the storm requires the evacuation
of vessels that are working on the Macondo well, about 40 miles
(64 kilometers) off Louisiana’s coast.  
 A tropical depression that has formed east of the Gulf put
off by about a week the completion of BP’s relief well, which is
aimed at killing Macondo permanently. The relief well may be
delayed by another five days if Allen decides to evacuate the
drilling vessels from the spill site, BP Senior Vice President
 Kent Wells  said during a conference call with reporters today.  
 The U.S. National Hurricane Center issued  storm warnings 
for the Bahamas and southern Florida today. Storm-force winds
may hit the well area early on July 24, Allen said.  
 Shoreline pollution is the worst threat from the storm as
winds may drive oil northwestward into Louisiana, Mississippi,
and northeastern Texas,  Jim Rouiller , a senior energy
meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, said
in an interview today.  
 Oiled Shoreline  
 The amount of oiled shoreline almost doubled at the end of
June after storms came through the area, according to government
data. About 626 miles (1,007 kilometers) of coasts in Louisiana,
Mississippi, Alabama and Florida are tarred by oil, the
government said yesterday.  
 Allen, speaking from Theodore, Alabama, said a decision
would be made about 8 p.m. local time today on whether the rig
drilling the relief well intended to plug Macondo next month
will have to begin withdrawing, delaying the procedure until the
storm passes.  
 The Development Driller III was about 5 feet (1.5 meters)
from the damaged well and 100 feet from the planned interception
point when crews withdrew the bit to install a temporary plug,
Wells said yesterday.  
 The decision to keep the well closed is conditional on BP
conducting intensive surveillance of pressure levels and the
area around the well, Allen said.  
 Allen also authorized BP to prepare for a so-called static
kill operation of pumping mud into the top of Macondo before
it’s permanently plugged, Wells said. The company will need
Allen’s approval again before the execution of the process,
which was delayed by the storm as well.  
 Some Ships Stay  
 Ships operating remote-operated vehicles used for visual
and acoustic monitoring may be able to remain on site through
the storm because they can operate in seas of 12 feet to 15
feet, he said.  
 Pressure inside the well has risen to 6,863 pounds per
square inch since BP sealed it July 15, indicating oil and gas
is not being forced out elsewhere in the well bore, according to
the company’s  website .  
 BP rose less than a pence to 400 pence at 4:35 p.m. local
time in London. It has fallen 39 percent since the well blew out
April 20, destroying the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and
killing 11 workers.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Katarzyna Klimasinska  in Houston at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Admiral Thad Allen, National Incident Commander. Photographer: Sean Gardner/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Don Van Nieuwenhuise, director of Petroleum Geoscience Programs at the University of Houston, discusses pressure readings at BP Plc's sealed Macondo well in the Gulf of Mexico.
     Van Nieuwenhuise talks with Lizzie O'Leary on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
