-- Angelina Jolie, Brad Pitt Settle London Libel Suit With News of the World
-- Lindsay Fortado
-- 2010-07-22T12:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/brad-pitt-angelina-jolie-settle-divorce-libel-suit-with-news-of-the-world.html

          
          
             Brad Pitt  and  Angelina Jolie  settled
a lawsuit over stories that claimed the couple was planning to
split up, with  News Corp. ’s News of the World newspaper
admitting the stories were false and agreeing to pay damages.  
 “The News of the World’s publication of these falsehoods
spawned an array of false stories,” Jolie and Pitt’s lawyer,
 Keith Schilling , said in court today. “When the News of the
World failed to publicly retract the allegations and apologize
for them -- thereby leaving their readers in the dark as to the
true position -- the couple felt they had no alternative than to
sue.”  
 The  News of the World  published a front-page story in
January saying the actors had visited divorce lawyers in late
2009 and were deciding how to divide 205 million pounds ($313
million) in assets and custody of their six children, according
to a statement Schilling read in a London court.  
 The newspaper published a second story a week later
repeating the allegations and saying Pitt and Jolie, who aren’t
married, were arguing over who had leaked details of their
separation to the press. The couple sued in February. A News
Corp. unit in the U.K. admitted the stories were false and
agreed to pay undisclosed damages to the couple’s charity,
Schilling said.  
 News of the World spokeswoman Hayley Barlow declined to
comment further.  
 ‘Mr. and Mrs. Smith’  
 Jolie, 35, is an  Oscar-winning  actress and a United Nations
Goodwill Ambassador. She has starred in movies including “Tomb
Raider,” “Girl, Interrupted,” and “Wanted.” She and Pitt
starred in “Mr. and Mrs. Smith” in 2005 and began dating after
he divorced the actress  Jennifer Aniston  that year. The couple
started the Jolie-Pitt Foundation in 2006 and have three adopted
and three biological children.  
 Celebrities including  Madonna , writer  Salman Rushdie  and
soccer player  Cristiano Ronaldo  have sued for libel in London
courts. The U.K. government said earlier this month it will
review its anti-defamation laws after the country became the
destination of choice to bring libel claims.  
 English libel law allows a plaintiff to sue if they can
claim published statements defamed their reputation, without
having to show damage was suffered. Defendants have to prove the
statement is true, rather than the plaintiff needing to show
it’s false.  
 To contact the reporter for this story:
 Lindsay Fortado  in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        