-- Brazil's Central Bank Kept Options Open, Say Analysts Who Forecast Suprise
-- Matthew Bristow
-- 2010-07-22T17:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/brazil-s-central-bank-kept-options-open-say-analysts-who-forecast-suprise.html

          
          
             Economists who predicted Brazil’s
surprise decision yesterday to reduce the pace of interest rate
increases said it’s too early to say if policy makers will pause
at their next meeting in September.  
 “The central bank left its options open,” said Marina
Santos, 30, an economist at hedge fund Squanto Investimentos
LTDA and one of just three analysts among 51 surveyed by
Bloomberg who predicted the central bank’s half-point rate
increase.  Most economists  had forecast a 75 basis point increase
to 11 percent.  
 The bank cited a diminishing risk of inflation amid waning
global growth in a statement accompanying its decision last
night. Today, traders pared their bets on rate increases for the
rest of the year, pushing down yields on interest-rate futures
contracts maturing through October 2011.  
 Before the bank’s decision yesterday, the median forecast
in a central bank survey of about 100 economists published July
19 was that the overnight rate would end the year as 12 percent
as policy makers tried to slow inflation amid surging demand.
Latin America’s biggest economy expanded 9 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in 15 years.  
 Consumer prices, after staying unchanged in June, fell for
the first time in four years in the month through mid-July.  
 “It is too early to say the central bank won’t raise rates
in September,” Santos said in an interview, adding she thinks
there’s a 50 percent change of another half-point increase.
“The next move will hinge on domestic and foreign activity
figures and the behavior of inflation.”  
 September’s Decision  
 Jose Marcio Camargo, an economist at Opus Gestao DE
Recursos Ltda who also anticipated the central bank’s latest
move, said he wouldn’t rule out another rate increase in the
next meeting. Most likely, he said, is that policy makers will
keep borrowing costs unchanged in September.  
 The yield on the rate contract maturing in January 2011,
the most traded on Sao Paulo’s BM&F exchange, fell as much as 12
basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, before paring declines
to trade at 10.88 percent at 1:03 p.m. New York time, a decline
of 9 basis points.  
 Traders are backing off bets that the bank will raise again
in 2010,  Ures Folchini , head of fixed income at Banco WestLB do
Brasil SA, said from Sao Paulo.  
 “There is no need to raise interest rates again this
year,” Budget Minister  Paulo Bernardo  told reporters in
Brasilia today. “Inflation is back under control.”  
 JPMorgan Forecast  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. said today that the central bank will
raise interest rates less than previously expected. The bank
says it sees the benchmark Selic rate ending 2010 at 11.25
percent, down from a previous forecast of 12.50 percent.  
 Policy makers will pause after a 50 basis-point increase at
their next meeting in September, during the height of Brazil’s
presidential campaign, before resuming increases in the first
half of 2011 as inflationary pressures revive, JPMorgan
economists  Fabio Akira  and  Julio Callegari  wrote.  
 Policy makers may increase borrowing costs another half
point at their next meeting on Sept. 1, or may leave rates
unchanged,  Marcelo Carvalho , an economist with BNP Paribas,
wrote yesterday in an e-mailed report.  
 Consumer prices  fell 0.09 percent in the month through mid-
July, the first drop in four years, the statistics agency said
this week. Annual inflation slowed to 4.74 percent, the lowest
since February, while still above the bank’s 4.5 percent target.  
 The price declines came as economic data show the expansion
may be slowing, reducing demand. Brazil created  fewer jobs  and
collected  less tax revenue  than expected in June, according to
reports last week by the tax agency and the Labor Ministry.
 Retail sales  and  industrial output  also missed estimates in May.  
 World Growth  
 Brazil’s slowdown comes amid signs that growth in other
major economies may cool.  
 In the U.S., economic data over the past month that were
weaker than analysts projected prompted investor speculation
that the Federal Reserve may increase monetary stimulus in a bid
to keep the economy growing.  
 “We will continue to carefully assess ongoing financial
and economic developments, and we remain prepared to take
further policy actions as needed to foster a return to full
utilization of our nation’s productive potential in a context of
price stability,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday.  
 China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from 11.9 percent in the preceding three months,
the statistics bureau said July 15. Industrial-production growth
slowed the most since 2008 in June, as regulators shutter
energy-intensive factories.  
 “Lingering uncertainty over the U.S. and Asia, as well as
the continuing troubles in Europe, may also have” prompted
Brazil’s central bank to slow the pace of rate increases,  Ilan Goldfajn  and Guilherme da Nobrega, economists at Itau Unibanco
Holding SA, wrote in an e-mail to clients.  
 Itau expects the central bank to keep borrowing costs
unchanged until early next year, before resuming increases.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andre  Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Bristow  in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        