-- U.K. Pound Strengthens Against Dollar as U.K. Retail Sales Beat Estimates
-- Lukanyo Mnyanda
-- 2010-07-22T15:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/british-gilts-advance-after-stock-market-losses-boost-demand-for-safety.html

          
          
             The pound posted its biggest gain in
a week against the dollar after a report showed U.K. June  retail
sales  rose more than economists predicted, damping concern that
the economy might slip back into a recession.  
 Sterling approached its highest level since April against
its U.S. peer as European reports suggested the region’s growth
is outpacing the U.S. economy. Retail sales climbed 0.7 percent
on the month, the Office for National Statistics said in London.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted a 0.5 percent gain.
U.K. stocks advanced with their European counterparts after
growth in Europe’s  services and manufacturing   industries 
unexpectedly accelerated in July.  
 “The retail numbers were very punchy,” said  Paul Mackel ,
a director of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in London.
“The European data set has been surprisingly strong and the
pound is riding the coattails.”  
 The pound advanced 0.7 percent to $1.5262 as of 4:16 p.m.
in London, after earlier climbing by 0.9 percent, the biggest
gain since July 15. The British currency depreciated by 0.6
percent to 84.63 pence per euro.  
 Sterling may rise to $1.62 by year-end, Mackel said. The
median estimate of 37 analyst predictions compiled by Bloomberg
is for the currency to end 2010 at $1.47. Sterling advanced to
$1.5472 on July 15, the strongest level since April 27.  
 The pound maintained gains against the dollar after U.S.
reports showed  more Americans than projected filed applications
for unemployment benefits last week and sales of previously
owned homes fell in June for a second month. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  today said unemployment “is the most
important problem” facing the U.S., a day after he said the
central bank may attempt more monetary stimulus.  
 Gilts Fall  
 U.K. 10-year government bonds declined, erasing an earlier
gain, as the FTSE 100 Index extended its advance. The 10-year
gilt yield increased two basis points to 3.36 percent after
being as low as 3.31 percent. The two-year  yield  was at 0.8
percent, also an increase of one basis point.  
 The Bank of England yesterday kept its benchmark interest
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent yesterday and maintained its
asset-purchase program at 200 billion pounds. The bank
considered looser policy as the “softening in the medium-term
outlook for GDP growth over recent months would put further
downwards pressure on inflation, once the impact of temporary
factors had waned,” minutes from its most recent meeting show.  
 ‘More Stimulus’  
 “Central banks can’t rule out the possibility of more
stimulus,” said  Orlando Green , an interest-rate strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  
 Gilts returned 5.8 percent this year, compared with a gain
of 3.1 percent for bonds in the euro area, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German debt rose 6.6 percent, the indexes
showed.  
 Investors reduced bets on the Bank of England raising 
rates this year. The yield on the short-sterling futures
contract for December fell two basis points to 0.84 percent.  
 Britain’s currency has gained 5 percent against the euro
this year on speculation that the U.K. economy will recover more
quickly than the euro region.  
 U.K. gross domestic product probably rose 0.6 percent in
the three months through June, twice the pace of the previous
quarter, according to the median prediction of 32 economists
polled by Bloomberg before tomorrow’s release.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        