-- Cagamas Sukuk `Big Step' for Malaysian Middle East Sales: Islamic Finance
-- Khalid Qayum
-- 2010-07-22T06:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/cagamas-sukuk-big-step-for-malaysian-middle-east-sales-islamic-finance.html

          
          
             Duet Mena Ltd.  and Algebra Capital
Ltd., Dubai-based managers of $500 million, said they may buy
Islamic bonds from Malaysia’s  Cagamas Bhd. , the first under a
new structure that complies with the Persian Gulf’s stricter
religious laws.  
 Cagamas, the nation’s biggest mortgage holder, plans to
seek funds in the oil-rich region by offering 5 billion ringgit
($1.5 billion) of notes that meet the guidelines of the Bahrain-
based  Accounting & Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial
Institutions . Fatwas, the judgment of a scholar based on his
interpretation of Shariah law, from Malaysia aren’t generally
accepted in the Middle East.  
 Demand from Dubai investors would benefit borrowers in
Malaysia, the largest Asian sukuk market. Saturna Sdn., the
Malaysian investment fund whose Washington-based parent oversees
$3 billion of Islamic assets, said it is counting on the sale to
attract funds from the Middle East.  
 “This is a big step forward and we will definitely be
interested,”  Rabih Sultani , who helps oversee $200 million at
Duet Mena, said in an interview yesterday. “We had been
reluctant to invest in Malaysia because of the different
structure.”  
 Global standards are still developing in the Islamic
finance industry, whose assets may almost triple to $2.8
trillion by 2015, according to the Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic
Financial Services Board. AAOIFI’s Secretary General Mohamad
Nedal Alchaar said in an interview in May that his body planned
to introduce the initiative to screen products and encourage
greater harmonization of Islamic financial practices.  
 ‘Bridge’ Laws  
 “This is the first time, as far as we know, that anyone,
anywhere, has managed to bridge the Shariah laws in Malaysia and
the Middle East,” Cagamas’ Chief Executive Officer  Steven Choy 
said in an interview today. “For us to achieve this is a key
milestone” in respect to  market progress, he said.  
 Issuers from Persian Gulf states sold $2.5 billion of
Islamic notes so far in 2010, down 24 percent from a year
earlier, and the lowest level since 2005, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Global issuance fell 29 percent to $6.65 billion.  
 Cagamas will issue short- and medium-term bonds using a new
Sukuk al-Amanah Li al-Istithmar structure, or Sukuk ALIm,
according to a statement on July 13. Choy said then the company
may offer 1 billion ringgit of notes within a month. London-
based Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Riyadh-based Al-Rajhi
Bank and Kuala-Lumpur-based RHB Bank Bhd. will help arrange the
sale, according to the CEO and a report from the official
Bernama news agency.  
 Sukuk ALIm  
 “Sukuk ALIm are tradable in the secondary market, and
since they preclude certain principles which may be contentious
to Shariah, are expected to meet the requirements of a wider
range of investors,” Ahmed Rehman, chief executive officer of
Al-Rajhi Bank Malaysia, said at a press conference in Kuala
Lumpur on July 13.  
 Cagamas and  Al-Rajhi  “have worked together in structuring
the sukuk, so there will be no difficulty in getting it approved
from our Shariah boards,” Duet Mena’s Sultani said.  
 The mortgage company raised 480 million ringgit from
Islamic securities in 2006 and 2007 based on deferred-payment
contracts, or so-called Bai Bithaman Ajil bonds, according to
the company’s  website . It separately sold 620 million ringgit of
commercial paper and 8.85 billion ringgit of medium-term notes
based on Islamic principles since 2007.  
 Malaysia Yields  
 The Bai Bithaman Ajil refers to a sale and purchase
contract for the financing of an asset that allows for deferred
payments and installments with a pre-agreed profit margin.
Scholars in the Persian Gulf have said the structure doesn’t
comply with Shariah because the profit is akin to an interest
payment, which is banned under Shariah law.  
 Islamic bonds returned 7.1 percent so far this year,
according to the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index , while
regular debt in developing markets gained 8.4 percent, JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  
 The yield on Malaysia’s 3.928 percent Islamic notes due
June 2015 rose three basis points to 3.09 percent, according to
prices from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The yield gap
between the Dubai Department of Finance’s 6.396 percent sukuk
maturing in November 2014 and Malaysia’s debt has widened to 435
basis points, from 356 basis points on June 10, reflecting
growing appetite for Asian Islamic debt.  
 ‘More Stability’  
 Saturna’s Chief Investment Officer  Bryce Fegley  said Asia’s
economic growth and more advanced Islamic bond market may
attract investors from Dubai or Qatar. Malaysia, the world’s
biggest issuer of debt that adheres to Muslim principles,
accounts for more than 60 percent of the $130 billion of
outstanding sukuk.  
 “There’s a little bit more stability behind the Malaysian
economy and the funding mechanism for sukuk and more harmonized
standards from the regulatory perspective,” said Fegley, whose
Kuala-Lumpur-based fund is a unit of Saturna Capital in
Bellingham, Washington. The Middle East tends to attract the
most “speculative money from the oil wells,” he said.  
 The World Bank predicted last month that economic growth in
the Middle East and North Africa will accelerate to 4 percent in
2010 from an estimated 3.2 percent last year as oil prices
rebound. Malaysia is forecast by the government to expand 6
percent this year after shrinking 1.7 percent in 2009.  
 Tarek Elalaily , head of fixed-income asset management in
Cairo at Beltone Financial, which manages 21.7 billion of
Egyptian pounds ($3.8 billion) of assets, said he wouldn’t
consider buying the Cagamas bonds because they aren’t rated by
Moody’s Investors Service or Standard & Poor’s.  
 “We would not currently look at issues that are not
locally or internationally rated,” Elalaily said in an e-mail
yesterday. “Internationally accepted sukuk standards would
naturally be a key impetus for the sukuk market.”  
 ‘Work in Progress’  
 Persian Gulf states aim to have a single Shariah board by
2013, Hussain Hamed Hassan, chairman of the Shariah Coordination
Committee of the Islamic Financial Institutions in the United
Arab Emirates, said in an interview in Dubai on June 10. The
committee is a grouping of religious scholars aiming to
standardize fatwas in the country.  
 Mohieddine Kronfol , a managing director at Algebra Capital,
which has more than $300 million of assets under management,
said he hopes the lead taken by Cagamas will promote more
dollar-denominated sukuk from Southeast Asia.  
 “Global standards in Islamic finance are a work in
progress,” Kronfol, whose company is a unit of San Mateo,
California-based Franklin Resources Inc., which owns 40 percent
of Algebra, said in an interview yesterday.  
 “Transactions that evolve from consultations with
recognized bodies like AAOIFI and multiple regulators are
typically accepted by a wider investor base,” Kronfol said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Khalid Qayum  in Singapore at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          May 4 (Bloomberg) -- Raj Mohamad, managing director at Five Pillars Pte, talks with Bloomberg's Haslinda Amin in Singapore about the outlook for the Islamic finance industry and potential growth markets in Asia. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
