-- Calstrs to Sell Majority Stake in Landmark Downtown New York Office Tower
-- David M. Levitt
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/calstrs-to-sell-majority-stake-in-landmark-downtown-new-york-office-tower.html

          
          
             The California State Teachers’
Retirement System plans to sell its majority stake in 120
Broadway, a  lower Manhattan  office tower and national historic
landmark co-owned by developer  Larry Silverstein .  
 Calstrs, as the second-biggest U.S. public pension fund is
known, is seeking to profit from its 2004 investment in the 40-
story  skyscraper , according to an e-mailed statement from its
adviser, CB Richard Ellis Investors LLC. Silverstein will hold
on to his interest, said two people with knowledge of his plan
who asked not to be named because it hasn’t been made public.  
 The tower “has proven to be an excellent investment,”
Ryan Gill, a CBRE Investors spokesman, said in the statement.
“Calstrs has a continuing good relationship with the
Silverstein organization, but has decided to harvest some of the
gains through the disposition of its interest in 120 Broadway.”  
 The offering may test the market for properties in downtown
New York, where only five office buildings have changed hands
since the credit crisis deepened in the third quarter of 2008,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc. Those deals include
American International Group Inc.’s headquarters at 70 Pine and
72 Wall streets, and JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s tower at 4 New York
Plaza, data from the real estate research firm show.  
 At 120 Broadway, “a lot of the tenants there are pretty
high quality, and the state has a lot of space,” said  Ben Thypin , an analyst with New York-based Real Capital. That will
help it fetch a premium to deals such as 70 Pine Street, which
sold at a discounted  price  of $103 a square foot because  AIG  was
planning to vacate the property, he said.  
 90% Occupied  
 The New York state attorney general has seven floors in the
building, according to Silverstein Properties’s website. Other
tenants include Bank of New York Mellon Corp., New York Life
Insurance Co. and the Alliance for Downtown New York. Its 1.85
million square feet (171,870 square meters) was 90 percent
occupied as of March 31, according to Bloomberg data.  
 The tower, also known as the Equitable Building, was valued
at about $300 million, or $173 per rentable square foot, when
Calstrs bought its stake through CBRE Investors in 2004,
according to Real Capital data.  
 Gill declined to say what Calstrs originally paid for its
stake.  
 Ricardo Duran , a spokesman for Sacramento-based Calstrs,
referred questions on the sale to CBRE Investors.  
 “We are proud of our ongoing relationship with Calstrs and
are gratified that our partnership at 120 Broadway has produced
such solid returns for the pension fund and its beneficiaries,”
 Dara McQuillan , a Silverstein spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  
 2006 Partnership  
 Silverstein formed a real estate partnership with Calstrs
in 2006, seeking to invest as much as $2 billion of commercial
properties in the New York metropolitan area.  
 Calstrs had $129.8 billion in assets as of June 30, second
only to the California Public Employees’ Retirement System, with
$201.5 billion.  
 The 120 Broadway tower, with its “triumphal arches and
classical ornamental detail” was the largest office tower in
the world by square feet when it was completed in 1915,
according to the city’s official Guide to New York City
Landmarks. Public outrage over the building’s bulk helped spur
passage of the first U.S. zoning law in 1916, the guide said.  
 The building is two blocks east of Ground Zero, where
Silverstein holds the rights to build three skyscrapers, one of
which is under construction. A block to the south, Bank of New
York Mellon has said it may sell 1 Wall Street, a 52-story
limestone tower.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        