-- Canada's Chief Statistician Resigns Amid Row With Government Over Census
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-22T00:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/canada-s-chief-statistician-resigns-amid-row-with-government-over-census.html

          
          
             Canada’s chief statistician,  Munir Sheikh , resigned today over changes the government plans to make
to the 2011 census, saying the decision to make the form
voluntary instead of mandatory won’t yield acceptable data.  
 “I acknowledge with regret the resignation,” Industry
Minister  Tony Clement  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Clement, the minister responsible for Ottawa-based
Statistics Canada, said  Wayne Smith , the current assistant chief
statistician, will replace Sheikh on an interim basis.  
 All three  opposition parties  criticized the planned census
changes and the Liberals have said they would seek to amend the
 Statistics Act  when Parliament reconvenes in September to make
the questionnaire mandatory again. Clement today signaled the
government won’t reconsider its position.  
 “It is not appropriate to compel citizens to divulge how
many bedrooms they have in their houses, or what time they leave
for work in the morning,” Clement said. “The government’s
approach is about finding a better balance between collecting
necessary data and protecting the privacy rights of Canadians.”  
 In a separate  statement  posted on Statistics Canada’s
website, Sheikh said the reason for his departure was over
dispute about “whether a voluntary survey can become a
substitute for a mandatory census.”  
 ‘Tendered My Resignation’  
 “It cannot,” Sheikh said. “Under the circumstances, I
have tendered my resignation to the prime minister.”  
 The census, which will be taken in May 2011, won’t include
a mandatory long-form questionnaire such as the one that had
previously been sent to a fifth of households. Instead,
Statistics Canada  will  send a voluntary form covering most of
the same topics as the previous form as part of a new National
Household Survey.  
 Lawmakers will hold hearings next week on the ruling
Conservative Party’s decision, the opposition Liberal Party’s
house leader,  Ralph Goodale , said today.  
 “The government will have an opportunity to present its
rationale, whatever it may be, and other Canadians who believe
that this is important will have their opportunity to
demonstrate what the stakes are on their side,” Goodale told
reporters today.  
 Sheikh earlier canceled a town hall meeting with employees
he had planned for this afternoon, saying he needed to reflect
on the agency’s position, according to an e-mail sent to
employees and posted on the Canadian Broadcasting Corp.’s
 website .  
 Jedi Knights  
 “We supported the previous system because it provided
Canadian businesses with accurate statistical data to use in
their planning,” Kathryn Anderson, director of communications
with the  Canadian Chamber of Commerce , said in an e-mail. “If
the government proceeds to make completion of the long form
voluntary, we will want to see what measures it will implement
to ensure that the data generated by the census are
comprehensive and reliable.”  
 The  long form  included questions on ethnicity, employment,
income, languages spoken at home, education and other topics.  
 “We made the 40-page long form voluntary because
government should not threaten prosecution or jail time to force
Canadians to divulge unnecessary private and personal
information,”  Dimitri Soudas , spokesman for Canadian Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper , said in an e-mail on July 18.  
 Pointing to the 2001 census, Soudas said 21,000 Canadians
registered “Jedi knight” as their religion, in reference to
the characters in the Star Wars movies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexandre Deslongchamps  in Ottawa at 
 adeslongcham@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Canada's Minister of Industry Tony Clement speaks during a meeting in Toronto. Photographer: Malcolm Taylor/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
