-- Canadian Stocks Extend Weekly Advance on CN Railway Profit; Banks Advance
-- Matt Walcoff
-- 2010-07-23T20:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/canadian-national-railway-celestica-trican-well-canadian-equity-preview.html

          
          
             Canadian stocks  rose for a second
day, extending a weekly gain, as companies including Canadian
National Railway Co. and Ford Motor Co. reported better-than-
estimated profit and most lenders passed a European stress test.  
 Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada’s second-largest bank, gained
1 percent as lenders rallied. Canadian National Railway, the
country’s biggest railroad, advanced 2 percent after its  second-
quarter profit  topped the average analyst estimate by 13
percent. Harry Winston Diamond Corp., a diamond retailer and
mining company, plunged 11 percent after agreeing to purchase
Kinross Gold Corp.’s indirect interest in a diamond mine.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 46.45
points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,714.21.  
 “There was a lot of nervousness leading up to this that
some of the big guys were not going to pass,”  Bruce Campbell ,
president of Campbell & Lee Investment Management Inc. in
Oakville, Ontario, said of the stress tests. “The fact that the
big ones passed is definitely a positive.”  
 The S&P/TSX rallied 1.2 percent this week on forecast-
beating earnings from U.S. companies. Eighty-five percent of S&P
500 companies that have reported quarterly earnings since July
12 have topped the average analyst estimate. Canadian companies
including Rogers Communications Inc., Teck Resources Ltd. and
GoldCorp Inc. are scheduled to report financial results over the
next week.  
 The  S&P/TSX Banks Index  gained the most in six days after
the European Union said 84 of the 91 banks tested have enough
capital to handle a sovereign-debt crisis.  
 Deserved Premium  
 Investors believe that Canadian banks, which have survived
the financial crisis without a failure or bailout, deserve a
 premium  over European and U.S. lenders due to their stability,
Campbell said. Gains in European and U.S. banks would lead to
advances among Canadian banks as valuations catch up, he said.  
 Toronto-Dominion increased 1 percent to C$71.89. Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, the country’s  fifth-largest  bank,
climbed 1.7 percent to C$68.40. Bank of Montreal, the No. 4 bank
by assets, rose 1.2 percent to C$61.78.  
 Canadian National Railway advanced after forecasting 2010
adjusted earnings of C$4.05 per share, compared with the average
analyst estimate of C$3.93 a share, on a “stronger-than-
expected economic recovery.”  
 The company’s shares increased 2 percent to C$64.98, while
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd., which is scheduled to report
 second-quarter profit  next week, climbed 1.3 percent to C$61.  
 U.S. Partner’s Profit  
 BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Ltd. advanced 1.8
percent to C$57.69 after U.S. carrier partner Verizon
Communications Inc. also beat analyst forecasts. Verizon Chief
Financial Officer  John Killian  said profit, excluding the
results from properties sold this year, will rise 5 percent to
10 percent in the second half of the year.  
 Base-metal producers rallied as copper climbed for a fifth
day to cap its biggest weekly gain since February. Teck
Resources Ltd., Canada’s biggest producer of coal and copper,
climbed 1.6 percent to C$37. Nickel, cobalt and coal producer
Sherritt International Corp. surged 5.3 percent to C$6.93 after
two analysts raised their  2010 profit estimates  for the year.  
 Harry Winston sank 11 percent, the most in 15 months, to
C$13 after agreeing to buy Kinross’s 9 percent indirect interest
in the Diavik Joint Venture for about $220 million. Harry
Winston will pay $50 million in cash, a $70 million note and 7.1
million shares to Kinross. Diavik, the northern Canadian mine
featured in the TV series “Ice Road Truckers,” is owned mostly
by Rio Tinto Plc.  
 Missing Estimates  
 Shoppers Drug Mart Corp., Canada’s largest drug-store
chain, tumbled 4.3 percent to C$34.07 after its  second-quarter
revenue , announced yesterday, missed the average of seven
analyst estimates by 1 percent.  
 At least four analysts cut their share-price estimates on
the company today. Analyst  Kenric S. Tyghe  of Raymond James
Financial Group Inc. cut his six-to-12-month forecast to C$39
from C$42, citing “limited specifics on cost-cutting
initiatives.”  
 Westport Innovations Inc., a maker of biogas and natural
gas engines, jumped 6.6 percent to an eight-year high of C$20.99
to lead the S&P/TSX. The shares have soared  28 percent  since the
Vancouver company announced a deal July 13 to develop products
for Sweden’s Volvo AB.  
 To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        