-- Capita Rises After Saying Sees `Significant' Government Contract Prospects
-- Chris Spillane
-- 2010-07-22T12:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/capita-rises-after-saying-sees-significant-government-contract-prospects.html

          
          
             Capita Group Plc , which provides a
criminal records service for the U.K. Home Office, rose the most
in 19 months after reporting improved margins and predicting
“significant opportunities” in government outsourcing.  
 Capita  climbed as much as 5.5 percent, the most since
December 2008. Operating margin improved to 13.1 percent in the
first half, the London-based company said in a statement today.  
 David Cameron ’s coalition government plans to cut 25 percent
from some departments and asked the civil service to identify
savings of up to 40 percent. While this will cause a “modicum
of short-term pain,” Capita will benefit next year as
outsourcing can help reach efficiency targets, Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Pindar  said.  
 “To achieve some of the savings they want to achieve there
is no doubt that they’re going to need to use third parties to
help them do it,” Pindar said.  
 Capita said its “bid pipeline” increased to 4.4 billion
pounds, from 3.7 billion pounds in February.  
 “They’ve come in around about expectations,” said  Robin Speakman , an analyst for Shore Capital. “They’ve identified all
the areas of opportunity and they are difficult to argue with
because they are going to win some of that business, probably a
large share of outsourcing business from government.”  
 Capita rose  as much as 39 pence to 749 pence and traded at
744 pence as of 1:06 p.m. in London trading. The stock has
retreated 0.9 percent this year, giving the company a market
value of 4.6 billion pounds.  
 Cost Cuts  
 Capita was one of 19 companies that met U.K. Cabinet Office
Minister  Francis Maude  this month to discuss how they could
reduce the cost of services they provide to the government.
Capita said that central government contracts account for around
9 percent of revenue.  
 The company has submitted a slate of ideas to the
government, highlighting areas where it could save money through
outsourcing, Pindar said. This includes health-care where “we
believe there are literally billions of pounds of back office
administrative spend that could be saved”, he said.  
 First-half net income was little changed at 98.2 million
pounds as some clients cut expenditure on major projects.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Spillane  in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        