-- Capital One Posts Quarterly Profit as Costs for Bad Loans Fall
-- Dakin Campbell
-- 2010-07-23T14:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/capital-one-posts-second-quarter-profit-as-costs-for-overdue-loans-decline.html

          
          
             (Corrects date Card Act was passed in the 11th paragraph of
story published yesterday.)  
 Capital One Financial Corp., the
most profitable U.S. credit-card issuer last year, reported a
higher-than-expected profit after a year-earlier loss, as
improving consumer repayments cut costs from overdue loans.  
 The company had net income of $608 million, or $1.33 a
share, compared with a loss of $277 million a year earlier, or
66 cents when including repayment of government aid, the McLean,
Virginia-based company said today in a statement. The lender
released $1 billion of loan-loss reserves, helping it beat the
88-cent average earnings estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg who didn’t adjust for one-time items.  
 “While economic and regulatory uncertainty remains, those
same forces are creating attractive opportunities,” Chief
Executive Officer Richard Fairbank said in the statement. “We
continue to be well positioned to take advantage of emerging
opportunities and deliver significant shareholder value over the
long-term.”  
 A decline in U.S. credit-card delinquencies this year
helped Fairbank, 59, boost profit even as consumers reduce debt
balances and new U.S. rules weigh on margins. The stock may
benefit if the trend holds, easing the need for provisions on
bad loans, Michael Taiano, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, said before the results were announced.  
 “From the standpoint of reserve releases, the market
wasn’t giving much credit to any of the larger banks,” Taiano
said in an interview.  
 Charge-Offs Ease  
 Capital One had a year-earlier profit of $223 million
before repaying government aid. Not counting one-time items, the
company’s profitability ranked No. 1 among U.S. credit-card
issuers last year, according to the Nilson Report, an industry
newsletter.  
 The lender said last week that net U.S. charge-offs fell in
June to 9.28 percent on an annualized basis, down from 9.48 in
May. The 30-day-plus delinquency rate was 4.79 percent,
according to a regulatory filing.  
 Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the U.S. economy, may still remain muted as people focus on
“deleveraging,” Fairbank said at a June investor conference.
Capital One’s provisions for bad loans declined to $723 million,
from $1.48 billion in the first quarter.  
 Capital One rose 2 percent to $42.08 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange Composite trading, and has gained 9.8 percent
this year. The shares fell 3 percent in after-hours trading.  
 The company repaid $3.56 billion in government aid a year
ago. The company reported net income of $636 million, or $1.40 a
share, in the first quarter.  
 In 2009, legislators passed the Credit Card Accountability,
Responsibility and Disclosure Act, and the three months ended
June is the first full quarter when the impact will be felt,
Taiano said. The rules wiped out lenders’ most lucrative billing
practices, including their ability to raise rates on existing
debt at any time, and required them to give cardholders 45 days’
notice on any rate increase.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        