-- Tropical Storm Bonnie Forms, Heading for Florida and BP's Gulf Oil Spill
-- Brian K. Sullivan
-- 2010-07-22T23:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/caribbean-weather-systems-pose-storm-risks-for-cuba-mexico-center-says.html

          
          
             Tropical Storm Bonnie has formed
south of the Bahamas and is on a track to move across the
southern tip of Florida and into the oil-fouled waters of the
Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  
 The storm has maximum sustained winds of 40 miles per hour
(64 kilometers), and is expected to build strength as it bears
down on the Florida Keys tomorrow, according to a special
 hurricane center  advisory issued at 6:15 p.m. Miami time.  
 “Data from an Air Force Hurricane Hunter reconnaissance
aircraft in the last hour indicate that surface winds associated
with the depression have increased to 40 mph,” the center said
in the advisory.  
 Forecasters are watching the storm closely to see what it
will do when it enters the Gulf of Mexico over the weekend and
whether the track will take it directly over the  BP Plc  oil
spill, the worst in U.S. history. The  hurricane center’s track 
estimate predicts the storm will go ashore southeast of
Lafayette, Louisiana, on the afternoon of July 25.  
 The track increases the threat to the spill region, said
 Jeff Masters , co-founder of Weather Underground. He said a
tropical storm with winds of 50 mph would push oil into the
Louisiana marshes and into Lake Pontchartrain, above New
Orleans.  
 Gulf Threat  
 “Oil production in the central to western Gulf should
monitor this system for possible increases in intensity, but
most rigs can withstand tropical-storm-force winds fairly
well,” said  Travis Hartman , energy manager and meteorologist
with MDA EarthSat Weather.  
 The Gulf accounts for about 31 percent of U.S. oil output
and 10 percent of its natural-gas production and is home to
seven of the 10 busiest ports, according to the Energy
Department.  
 The storm is just above the threshold of 39 mph needed to
become a tropical storm. Tropical storm warnings were issued for
the central and northwestern Bahamas, as well as Florida’s east
coast from Golden Beach to the Keys. A warning for the state’s
west coast extends as far north as Bonita Beach.  
 “Winds near tropical storm force are already affecting
portions of the southern Bahamas,” according to the hurricane
center advisory. “Weather conditions will begin to deteriorate
on the Florida coast and Florida Keys within the warning area on
Friday.”  
 Storm Warnings  
 A warning means tropical storm conditions are expected
within 36 hours, the hurricane center said. A tropical storm
watch has been issued from Golden Beach to Jupiter Inlet
including Lake Okeechobee.  
 Florida is the world’s second-largest citrus producer
behind Brazil.  
 The storm is forecast to leave as much as 7 inches of rain
in some parts of the Bahamas and as much as 4 inches across
southern Florida, according to the hurricane center. The storm
is centered about 200 miles southeast of Nassau.  
 Bonnie becomes the second storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season, which is expected to be one of the most active seasons
on record, according to forecasters, such as the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and Colorado State
University.  
 Colorado State researchers are calling for 18 storms to
form and NOAA has forecast 14 to 23 storms. An average Atlantic
season has 11 storms, according to the hurricane center.  
 Oil Slick in Path  
 Jim Rouiller , a senior energy meteorologist at  Planalytics
Inc.  in Pennsylvania, said he doubts the storm will be able to
achieve hurricane strength as it moves across the Gulf because
of a high-pressure system over the southern U.S. As the storm
moves along the edge of that system, upper-level winds will
prevent the storm from gaining strength.  
 “I remain quite concerned of how this tropical storm will
impact and move this oil slick toward the upper Gulf Coast line,
even to include a westward shift toward the upper coast of
Texas,” Rouiller said.  
 A second disturbance off the eastern coast of Mexico has a
50 percent chance of further development.  
 It was bringing thunderstorms to the Bay of Campeche, the
southernmost portion of the Gulf of Mexico, site of the
Cantarell oil field, the largest in Mexico. Petroleos Mexicanos,
Latin America’s largest oil producer, last month evacuated
workers from offshore platforms as Hurricane Alex swept through
the region.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian K. Sullivan  in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        