-- Carney May Use Report Today to Underscore Bank of Canada's Growth Concern
-- Greg Quinn
-- 2010-07-22T04:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/carney-may-use-report-today-to-underscore-bank-of-canada-s-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
may use a report today to underscore concerns that Europe’s debt
crisis and sluggish U.S. spending will erode Canada’s recovery
and delay his own rate increases.  
 Carney raised his  benchmark interest rate  July 20 by a
quarter point for a second month, to 0.75 percent, and said
further action will be “weighed carefully against domestic and
global economic developments.” He also cut his growth forecast
by 0.2 percentage point this year and next, to 3.5 and 2.9
percent respectively, and said inflation will stay close to his
2 percent target through 2012.  
 Carney will expand on those predictions today when he
publishes an economic forecast paper at 10:30 a.m. New York
time, including growth and inflation projections, and holds a
press conference in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predict Carney will slow the pace of rate increases, and will
refrain from a move at one the two meetings in the fourth
quarter.  
 “The bank will clarify its downside risks to its
outlook,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “It’s keeping all of its policy options
open and not committing itself to rate increases.”  
 The bank said this week the response to Europe’s debt
crisis will slow global growth and added a reference to
“uneven” spending in the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner.  
 Strong Case  
 Carney should signal he may raise interest rates faster
than markets expect because an economic recovery threatens to
stoke inflation, said a former adviser to the central bank and
finance minister.  
 “I would like to see that idea expressed -- that we know
there is significant tightening ahead, and if things change
fine, but we fully expect that in the future,”  Chris Ragan  said
in an interview yesterday in Bloomberg’s Ottawa office.  
 “Internally, you have this very strong case for rate
increases, I would say slightly softened by the external
environment,” Ragan said. “Based on today’s information, I
could see the Bank of Canada’s policy rate going up by something
like 175 to 250 basis points over the next 12 to 14 months.”  
 The  one-year  overnight index swap rate, a measure of what
investors predict the central bank rate will average over that
time, was 1.0565 percent yesterday. The yield on June 2011
bankers acceptances contract was 1.56 percent yesterday. So-
called Bax contracts have settled an average of about 20 basis
points above the central bank’s overnight target since 1992,
Bloomberg data show.  
 ‘Sounding More Dovish’  
 The bank said it will take until the end of next year for
the economy to reach full capacity, six months later than it
 forecast in April . The bank also referred to the level of the
policy rate as providing “considerable” stimulus.  
 “They are sounding more dovish” said  Todd Hirsch , senior
economist at ATB Financial, a bank owned by Alberta’s provincial
government. He said a pause at the next meeting in September is
possible, while a few months ago he predicted rates would keep
rising over the next few meetings.  
 Carney has raised rates this year while other Group of
Seven policy makers keep them at or near record lows, as the
economy grew at a 6.1 percent annualized pace in the first
quarter and recovered most of the  jobs  lost in the recession.  
 European governments are cutting spending to curb deficits,
while the U.S. recovery is threatened by falling  housing starts 
and high unemployment that’s eroding consumer confidence.  
 Canada won’t be able raise rates too fast while the U.S.
Federal Reserve has said it intends to keep its key rate near
zero “for an extended period,” said  Nicholas Rowe , an
economist at Carleton University in Ottawa. That would drive up
the Canadian dollar and derail the recovery, forcing Carney to
cut rates again, Rowe said.  
 “In the long-run, our interest rate gets determined in the
world market,” Rowe said. “If you believe the U.S. and
European economies are going to stay weak and their interest
rates are going to stay low, you cannot believe ours is going to
go up and stay high.” He predicts a 2 percent benchmark
Canadian rate a year from now.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        