-- Chile Hires Citigroup, JPMorgan, HSBC for First Global Bond in Six Years
-- Sebastian Boyd
-- 2010-07-22T19:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/chile-hires-citigroup-jpmorgan-hsbc-for-first-global-bond-in-six-years.html

          
          
             Chile hired JPMorgan Chase & Co,
Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc to arrange the country’s
first international bond sale in six years, Finance Minister
 Felipe Larrain  said.  
 Chile will use proceeds of the 10-year bonds to help
finance rebuilding efforts after a February earthquake, Larrain
told reporters in Santiago today. Chile will meet investors in
Los Angeles, Boston and New York next week, he said.  
 The government plans to sell $1 billion of the securities
in dollars and $500 million “denominated in pesos,” Chile’s
first global peso bond sale, Larrain, 52, said. Chile’s two
outstanding dollar bonds mature in 2012 and 2013. The sale aims
to set new benchmarks for Chilean issuers, he said.  
 “Chile has been absent from the debt markets for six years
and this is our return,” Larrain said. “It’s impossible to
predict the yield because that depends on market conditions in
the moment. But we have very favorable conditions for the
issuance in dollars and that in pesos.”  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rendered
effective a $3 billion debt shelf filed by Chilean authorities
on June 15, he said. Chile is seeking financing for repairs
after the Feb. 27 quake caused as much as $30 billion of damage.  
 The government seeks to reduce the impact of its borrowing
on the exchange rate. Larrain declined to comment on whether the
proceeds and dollar liabilities generated by sale would be
exchanged for pesos and peso liabilities through the swap
market.  
 Highest Rating  
 Chile is the highest-rated sovereign borrower in Latin
America. Moody’s Investors Service in June lifted its rating to
Aa3, the fourth-highest. Standard & Poor’s ranks it one level
lower at A+ and Fitch Ratings grades it one level lower still at
A.  
 The dollar-denominated debt “probably doesn’t have
tremendous appeal for traditional emerging-market investors
because it will be low yielding,” said  David Bessey , who helps
manage more than $10 billion of emerging-market debt at
Prudential Financial in Newark, New Jersey. “It will
potentially appeal more to crossover type investors looking for
relatively high-rated paper.”  
 Chile’s five-year credit-default swap spread fell four
basis points to 90 basis points today, according to CMA
Datavision in London, close to AAA-rated Austria’s 88 basis-
point spread and less than Belgium’s 106 basis points.  
 The  spread  on Chilean sovereign bonds has widened 24 basis
points to 136 basis points from 112 basis points on April 23,
when Larrain announced the bond sales, according to JPMorgan
indexes.  
 The Chilean peso appreciated 0.8 percent against the U.S.
dollar today to 519.2 from 523.15 yesterday. It earlier reached
517 per dollar, the strongest since May 3.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sebastian Boyd  in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        