-- China's Guangdong Halts Fishing in Ting River on Zijin Copper Waste Leaks
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/china-s-guangdong-halts-fishing-in-ting-river-on-zijin-copper-waste-leaks.html

          
          
             China’s Guangdong province stopped
fishing in the Ting River until at least the end of this month
amid concerns  Zijin Mining Group Co. ’s waste spill upstream is
widening, the provincial government said.  
 The government bought about 450,000 kilograms (992,000
pounds) of fishes from local fishermen and put them into the
Qingxi reservoir, and none have died, the Guangdong government
said on its  website . The Oceanic and Fisheries Administration of
Guangdong will make a compensation request for the losses, the
government said.  
 Acidic waste leaking from Zijin’s biggest copper plant is
spreading to Guangdong province from Fujian, where it poisoned
enough fish to feed 72,000 residents for a year. Guangdong is
closely monitoring the water quality and evaluating whether the
spill has poisoned drinking water, the government said.  
 The administration is taking samples of aquatic products
from the river every two days to evaluate whether they have been
poisoned, according to the statement. The government has
prohibited the sale of fish until they pass food safety
requirements, it said.  
 Zijin , China’s largest gold producer, fell as much as 2.9
percent in Hong Kong, trading down 1.7 percent to HK$4.68 as of
11:00 a.m. local time. The stock has fallen about 16 percent
since it announced the toxic spill July 12.  
 Guo Xingmin, a spokesman at the Guangdong fisheries
administration, declined to comment immediately.  
 The copper content has fallen to 0.028 milligram per liter
on July 20 in the Ting River at Qingxi, Dabu of Guangdong, the
statement said, without giving comparisons.  
 China has faced a series of health and environmental
standard failures, with melamine-tainted milk and emissions from
smelters killing children. An explosion on July 16 in the
northeastern city of Dalian led to an oil spill that may
threaten seafood farming in the surrounding regions, the
agriculture ministry said July 21.  
 -- Helen Yuan . Editors:  Tan Hwee Ann ,  Indranil Ghosh .  
 To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        