-- China's Leaders Pledge Policy Stability After Loosening Talk Boosts Stocks
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-22T11:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/china-pledges-pledges-policy-stability-after-loosening-talk-boosts-stocks.html

          
          
             Chinese leaders pledged policy
stability after speculation the government could ease lending
controls to spur growth in the world’s third-biggest economy.  
 Policy stability should be the main theme in the second
half, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said today. The comments by Wen and
President  Hu Jintao  were published by Xinhua News Agency on a
government website today.  
 Wen also highlighted the importance of expanding domestic
demand, saying that China would “improve” stimulus measures
for boosting consumption.  
 Chinese stocks rose for a fourth day today, the longest
stretch of gains since February, on speculation the government
may relax curbs on property and lending. Economic growth will
ease each quarter this year after peaking in January-to-March,
according to the median forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  
 Hu said China will continue to implement a proactive fiscal
policy and moderately loose monetary policy. Wen said the
government would boost domestic consumption in the second half,
while continuing to balance the goals of relatively fast growth,
restraining inflation expectations and restructuring the economy.  
 China’s economic expansion  eased to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter and industrial production growth cooled more than
forecast in June. The gain in gross domestic product was less
than an 11.9 percent increase in January-March from a year
earlier.  
 The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 27.01, or 1.1 percent,
to 2,562.41 at the close today, the highest since June 24. The
four-day stretch of gains is the longest since the period ended
Feb. 12.  
 For Related News and Information:
Emerging markets view: EMMV <GO>
Top China news: TOP CHINA <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>
Global economy watch: STAT1 <GO>
Top economic news: TOP ECO <GO>
Most-read China economy stories:
TNI CHECO MOSTREAD BN <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA 1W <GO>
Chinese stocks stories: TNI CHINA STK <GO>  
          
          


  


        