-- China Seeks to Publish Regular Gauge of Yuan Against Basket of Currencies
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-22T10:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/china-may-publish-rate-to-manage-yuan-versus-basket-of-currencies-hu-says.html

          
          
             China’s central bank will seek to
publish a measure of the yuan’s value “regularly” to help it
manage the exchange rate against a basket of currencies and not
just the dollar, Deputy Governor  Hu Xiaolian  said.  
 The People’s Bank of China aims to publish the nominal
effective exchange rate and this “should gradually become a
reference for exchange-rate adjustments,” Hu said today in a
 statement  on its website. These indexes are typically weighted
according to the amount of trade a nation has with its partners
and aren’t adjusted for inflation. She said this will help shift
the market’s attention away from the rate against the greenback.  
 “This is very important as it will make things more
transparent, making it more likely that the yuan does trade
against the basket and not the dollar,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk ,
a Hong Kong-based senior economist and strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “Demand for both the dollar and Treasuries would
be lower if China does move to the effective basket.”  
 Premier Wen Jiabao in March urged the U.S. to take
“concrete steps” to reassure investors about the safety of
dollar assets after President Barack Obama stepped up spending
to help end a recession. The country has the biggest overseas
holdings of U.S. Treasuries and cut its investment in the
securities by $32.5 billion in May to $867.7 billion, the
biggest decline this year.  
 Stability Sought  
 The yuan has strengthened 0.7 percent versus the greenback
since the central bank said on June 19 it would end a two-year
peg to the dollar and manage the exchange rate with reference to
a currency basket. It has weakened 0.7 percent against a basket
of trade-weighted currencies in the period as the euro and the
yen both rallied against the dollar, according to an  index 
compiled by Westpac Banking Corp.  
 “The yuan should be kept stable at a reasonable and
balanced level overall, while it may have two-way moves against
particular currencies,” Hu said, adding that the composition of
the central bank’s currency basket should be mainly based on
trade weightings.  
 “The euro has been strengthening recently, but if it was
to weaken again, then the PBOC’s trade-weighted measure of the
yuan would come in handy in justifying only small gains against
the dollar,” said  Ben Simpfendorfer , chief China economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “It is a way for China to
deflect pressure from the U.S.”  
 U.S.-China Ties  
 Any sustained weakening of the yuan could set China on a
collision course with trading partners, who say the nation’s
exports are bolstered by an undervalued currency.  Obama  said
last month he expected the yuan to rise “significantly.” China
had kept the currency at about 6.83 per dollar since July 2008,
after allowing it to gain 21 percent in the previous three years.  
 While Beijing is trying to shift the U.S.’s focus off the
bilateral exchange rate, “the U.S. politicians will not be
distracted,” said  Liu Li-Gang , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  
 Chinese central bank adviser  Zhou Qiren  said that the
nation will let the yuan weaken if exports fall sharply,
according to an interview published on July 21 in Japan’s Asahi
newspaper. He also said the peg should have been ended earlier
because the economy has overheated.  
 -- Belinda Cao ,  Sophie Leung ,  Yumi Teso . Editors:  Sandy Hendry ,
 James Regan   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Belinda Cao  in Beijing at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        