-- China Shares Rebound May Falter as Government Delays Easing, Deutsche Says
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-22T02:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/china-stocks-may-pull-back-after-rebound-deutsche-bank-economist-ma-says.html

          
          
             China’s equities rebound  may falter
as the government delays easing its tightening measures until
the fourth quarter, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  
 A pull-back in Chinese stocks is likely after they climbed
this week on speculation the government may relax its policies,
and investors should wait for a “safer” entry point, said
Deutsche Bank economist Jun Ma , ranked first in Institutional
Investor’s 2010 All-China poll.  
 The MSCI China Index gained 2.9 percent in the previous two
sessions, trimming losses this year to 5.2 percent. The
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index  has fallen 23 percent this
year, the worst most among Asian stock gauges, as the government
introduced measures to curb mortgage lending.  
 “The market rebound started from Friday last week on
strong expectation that policy relaxation will likely continue
in the very near term, reflecting market  momentum , short
covering and high cash positions of many investors,” Ma wrote
in a report yesterday. “This short-term uptrend is to some
extent self-fulfilling and does not require much support from
improvement in macro fundamentals.”  
 Ma expects the  MSCI China Index  to rise to 26 percent to 77
in the next 12 months, a forecast that he says is “relatively
cautious” compared with other analysts. The index lost 0.4
percent to 61.32 at 10:28 a.m.  
 GDP Growth Slows  
 Economic growth is slowing.  Gross domestic product  expanded
10.3 percent in the second quarter, easing from the 11.9 percent
increase in January to March period, the statistics bureau said
on July 15. Reports this month also showed property prices in 70
Chinese cities fell 0.1 percent in June from May, snapping 15
months of gains while bank lending eased.  
 China’s economy may grow 8.6 percent in 2011, slowing from
a forecast of 9.6 percent this year, according to Ma. That’s
“significantly weaker” than the average growth rate of 10.3
percent in the last decade, he said.  
 Worsening third-quarter economic data will increase the
probability of policy relaxation in the fourth quarter to 70
percent from between 50 percent and 60 percent currently,
Deutsche Bank’s Ma said.  
 Still, any stimulus package next year will have to be
“significantly less aggressive” as the policies introduced in
2009 start affecting banks’ non-performing loans and spurring a
“bubble” in the property market, the economist said.  
 The brokerage’s forecast for a gain for the MSCI China is
based on  earnings growth  of 17 percent for 2010 and 2011 and a
forecast price-to-estimated earnings  multiple  of 13 times, in
line with its 10-year average, according to the report.  
 “Investors do not have to be overly concerned by the
possibility of missing a huge rally starting from right now,”
Ma said. “There may well be other equally attractive entry
points, on a risk-reward basis, in the remainder of this
quarter.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        