-- China Braces for Typhoon Chanthu as Worst Flooding in a Decade Persists
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-22T09:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/china-braces-for-typhoon-chanthu-as-worst-flooding-in-a-decade-persists.html

          
          
             Typhoon Chanthu made landfall in
southern China today, bringing gales and torrential rain to the
nation where flooding this year has been the worst in more than
a decade.  
 The typhoon hit Wuchuan city in the west of  Guangdong
province  at 1:45 p.m. local time with sustained winds of 35
meters per second near the center of the storm, the China
Meteorological Administration said on its  website . Rainfall in
the town of Potou reached as much as 78.2 millimeters, the
agency said.  
 Neighboring  Guangxi  province is likely to see downpours,
with Chanthu forecast to hit the region tonight, according to
the provincial meteorological administration.  
 Flooding in China this year has left more than 700 people
dead, the most since 1998 according to government figures,
spurring Premier  Wen Jiabao  to chair a meeting of the nation’s
cabinet yesterday that called the situation “grave.” Wen, who
traveled twice to southern China last month to inspect flood
relief work, ordered local governments to step up rescue and
relief efforts.  
 China’s weather administration upgraded Chanthu to a
typhoon from a tropical storm yesterday. Torrential rain caused
by the typhoon may intensify flooding and cause landslides, the
Office of State Flood Control and Drought Relief Headquarters
said on its website.  
 Death Toll  
 Hong Kong removed its No. 1 storm standby signal at 2:40
p.m. local time today after Chanthu passed the city, the local
observatory said on its website.  
 Flooding has left 187 people dead and 173 missing since
July 8, bringing the death toll in 2010 to 701, the Ministry of
Water Resources and flood control office said in a joint
statement yesterday.  
 Western parts of Guangdong, eastern areas of Guangxi and
the southern island province of Hainan are forecast to receive
the heaviest rain of any region in China today, the  weather
administration  said on its website. Torrential rain may also hit
the provinces of Liaoning, Jilin, Sichuan, Gansu, Shaanxi, Henan,
Hubei, Jiangsu and Yunnan, the agency said.  
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. , the nation’s second-
largest oil producer, said today it has shut some wells in
southern China because of flooding. The impact has been
“limited,”  Huang Wensheng , a spokesman for the company known
as Sinopec, said by telephone, declining to specify the number
of wells that were closed. Sinopec said yesterday on its website
that more than 100 of its wells in Jiangsu had been inundated by
floodwater.  
 Electricity, Rice Output  
 Sichuan Guangan AAA Public Co. , which generates
hydroelectric power in southwestern China, said yesterday that
floods in Guangan city where it’s based have caused the loss of
6.78 million kilowatt-hours of electricity generation.  
 Rice output in China, the world’s largest grain producer,
may fall 10 percent because of damage from torrential rain and
pests, industry website cngrain.com estimated this week. In some
of the main producing areas, yields may decline by as much as 20
percent, the website said.  
 Floods have caused about 142 billion yuan of economic
losses this year, including 38 billion yuan since July 8, the
water ministry and flood control office said yesterday. Almost
645,000 homes have been destroyed and 7 million hectares of
farmland damaged this year, it said.  
 Three Gorges Dam  
 China’s Three Gorges Dam, the world’s largest, said water
flows of as much as 70,000 cubic meters a second were recorded
on the Yangtze River on July 20. Water flows were contained and
released at “safe levels,” Huang Hua, assistant director of
public affairs for dam operator China Three Gorges Corp. said.
The dam was built to generate electricity and also for flood
control on China’s longest river.  
 The dam, which began operations in 2003, can handle water
flows of 98,800 of cubic meters per second , Xinhua News Agency
reported, citing Chairman  Cao Guangjing . The record for water
flow on the Yangtze was 70,800 cubic meters a second in 1981,
Xinhua said.  
 Floods in China in 1998 killed about 4,000 people, forced
the evacuation of 18.4 million and caused at least 1.66 billion
yuan of economic losses, according to government data.  
 For Related News and Information:
Stories on natural disasters in China: TNI CHINA NAT BN <GO>
Bloomberg weather center: WEAT <GO>
Bloomberg mapping: BMAP <GO>
China economic statistics: ECST CH <GO>
Most-read stories about China: MNI CHINA <GO>  
          
          


  


        