-- Citigroup's Pandit Names Shohet to Role Managing Dodd-Frank Act Regulation
-- Donal Griffin
-- 2010-07-22T19:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/citigroup-s-pandit-names-shohet-to-role-managing-dodd-frank-act-regulation.html

          
          
             Citigroup Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit  named  Zion Shohet , the bank’s former
treasurer, to manage regulatory changes mandated by the Dodd-
Frank Act.  
 The 41-year-old executive will “coordinate, lead and drive
our effort to ensure that we effectively communicate our views
on proposed new regulations to the regulatory agencies,” Pandit
wrote in a July 19 memo to employees. Shohet will help the bank
“assess the business implications of the rules so that we can
make any necessary adjustments in a timely and efficient
fashion,” Pandit wrote.  
 Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, is among firms
gearing up to cope with Dodd-Frank, created in response to the
financial crisis that brought down Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
Pandit attended the July 21 ceremony in Washington at which
President  Barack Obama  signed the regulatory overhaul into law.  
 On a July 15 conference call,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ’s  Mike Cavanagh  told analysts that the bank had “hundreds of work
streams” studying how the bill will affect operations, services
and fee structures. Cavanagh is CEO of treasury and security
services at JPMorgan, the No. 2 U.S. bank after Bank of America
Corp.  
 Shohet will leave his current position as chief operating
officer at the Institutional Clients Group, which includes
investment banking, hedge funds and transaction services, said
spokeswoman  Danielle Romero-Apsilos , who confirmed Pandit’s
memo. Shohet joined Citigroup in 2001 and left the treasurer’s
position in April 2009.  
 The New York-based bank, 18 percent owned by the U.S.
Treasury Department, also said it hired  Steven Mandis  as vice
chairman of the group and chief of staff under the unit’s CEO,
 John Havens . It’s a new position, not a replacement for Shohet,
Romero-Apsilos said.  
 Separately, Citigroup said it named Irene Fang as director
of corporate fair lending for the bank’s U.S.-based businesses.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Donal Griffin  in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        