-- Citigroup's Australia Bank Chief Roberts Wagers Job on Top-Three Ranking
-- Angus Whitley
-- 2010-07-22T02:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/citigroup-s-australia-bank-chief-roberts-wagers-job-on-top-three-ranking.html

          
          
               Stephen Roberts ,  Citigroup Inc .’s
top executive in Australia, has staked his job on winning a top-
three domestic ranking in two years.  
 “If I’m not in that position in 2012, I won’t be here,”
Roberts, the country officer for Australia and head of markets
and banking, said in an interview. “That I guarantee.”  
 It may be a big ask: Roberts’s takeover advisers rank 11th
this year and haven’t placed in the top three since 2002, and
his share sale arrangers haven’t been there this decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The former Salomon
Brothers banker is also up against  Bank of America Corp . and
Nomura Holdings Inc., which have made public pledges to climb
the league tables.  
 “Foreign banks like Citi have had a tough time breaking
into the Australian market,” said Frank Zumbo, associate
professor and competition expert at the  Australian School of
Business , part of the University of New South Wales. “They’ve
got a long way to go in a very tough market.”  
 Roberts, 53, the most senior Citigroup banker in Australia
since 2003 and its top executive in the nation since April 2008,
said he’s relying on some of the new hires in the past six
months to turn things around.  
 The New York-based bank this month hired Tony Osmond from
Goldman Sachs JBWere Pty in  Melbourne , where he led mergers and
acquisitions, natural resources and industrials, to become head
of  investment banking  in  Australia .  
 Job Cuts  
 In  April , Citigroup named 20-year UBS AG veteran Brett
Paton as vice chairman of the institutional clients group, which
includes the advisory and markets businesses. His appointment
followed that of ex-UBS banker Karen Phin as head of capital
management advisory.  
 “Today, I have what I need,” Roberts said in the July 20
interview at Citigroup’s  Sydney offices . “I don’t have any
desire to build any other franchises.”  
 Citigroup is reconstructing its Australian business after
axing a quarter of the local workforce, down to about 1,900,
since the global financial crisis, according to the company.  
 Roberts, who started his career in  New York  in 1984, said
the firm’s business had been marred by inefficient risk
management and inadequate cost controls.  
 “We were not an efficient place of business in 2007 and
2008,” Roberts said. “There is no question that there has been
some brand damage over the last two or three years. Whatever the
league table position has been, it hasn’t been commensurate with
my expectation. That has to change.”  
 Healthscope Bid  
 Citigroup’s ranking outside the top 10 this year among
Australian merger advisers, who are led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
partly reflects that the bank sided with companies that lost
deals, or worked on transactions that weren’t completed, Roberts
said.  
 The bank said it was among advisers and financers on this
month’s failed bid by KKR & Co. for Australian hospital owner
Healthscope Ltd. The winning $1.7 billion offer came from  Carlyle Group  and TPG Capital, Healthscope said this week.  
 Citigroup’s investment bank in Australia will focus on real
estate, financial institutions, metals and mining, energy and
industrial companies, according to Roberts. Still, it’s tough to
get planned deals done.  
 “I’ve just gone through the list and it’s longer than I
can ever recall,” he said. “It won’t all get done, there’s no
question. It’s one of the most difficult operating environments
I can recall. This pipeline that everyone talks about will be
just that for a long time.”  
 ‘Healthy Margins’  
 Citigroup is among foreigners in an Australian market that
some bankers say dispenses the biggest fees in  Asia  outside
Japan. Nomura said in May it plans to almost double its
Australian workforce to win a top-five ranking. Bank of America
said in March it would hire staff to return to a top-three
position among investment banks in Australia.  
 “When you’ve got players clamoring to get into a market,
that is usually a sign there are healthy margins,” said Zumbo,
the associate professor at the Australian School of Business.  
 In the  debt market , Roberts said he sees “significant”
work refinancing debt and raising capital for Australia’s four
biggest commercial banks, which include Westpac Banking Corp.
and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia . Moody’s Investors Service
has said those banks issue as much as A$50 billion ($44 billion)
of long-term bonds each year.  
 Citigroup is Australia’s sixth-placed arranger this year of
G3 currency bonds, which are denominated in U.S. dollars, yen
and euros, after topping that table in 2009, according to
Bloomberg data. Among arrangers of bonds sold in the Australia
market, the bank ranks 12th in 2010, unchanged from last year.  
 “If you don’t have the banks as a front-and-centre role in
your debt markets activity, you’re going to be missing out on a
significant volume of business,” Roberts said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Stephen Roberts, Citigroup Inc.’s top executive in Australia. Photographer: Jack Atley/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
