-- CNPC Says Supply of Piped Oil to Dalian Refinery Has Resumed After Blast
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-22T05:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/cnpc-says-supply-of-piped-oil-to-dalian-refinery-has-resumed-after-blast.html

          
          
             China National Petroleum Corp. 
resumed crude supplies through a pipeline to its refinery in
Dalian after a blast at the port reduced plant operations and
caused a spill that the government said may affect fish farms.  
 PetroChina Co. , a Hong Kong-listed unit, has increased
production at the refinery after the pipeline started up at
10:45 p.m. local time on July 19, CNPC said in a  statement  on
its website today. PetroChina cut the refinery’s output after a
pipeline explosion at the port on July 16 disrupted seabourne
cargo deliveries and leaked oil into the sea.  
 Dalian closed several bathing beaches to tourists after the
spill spread across more than 183 square kilometers (70 square
miles) of sea. The agriculture ministry said yesterday the slick
may affect nearby fish farms if it spreads.  
 Authorities are aiming to finish the cleanup before July 24,
the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. The effort
has been delayed by heavy rain and strong winds, it said.  
 More than 400 metric tons of oil had been recovered as of 9
a.m. yesterday, CNPC said. A total of about 1,500 tons of oil
spilled into the sea, according to the China National Radio on
July 19.  
 All the docks in the Xingang and Dayaowan areas of the port
that were hit by the explosion have resumed operations, except
the crude oil terminal, operator  Dalian Port (PDA) Co.  said on
July 20.  
 The pipelines damaged by the blast are owned by a  joint
venture  between PetroChina International Co., a unit of
PetroChina, and Dalian Port.  
 Cause of Explosion  
 CNPC’s 410,000 barrel-a-day Dalian refinery is receiving
45,000 metric tons (328,500 barrels) of crude oil daily through
the reopened pipeline, according to the statement today.  
 The refinery will operate at full capacity when the crude
terminal resumes and pipeline repairs are completed, state-
controlled CNPC said, without giving details.  
 The explosion was caused by a third-party quality-
inspection company that didn’t follow procedures properly, the
China Securities Journal reported today.  
 The blast happened when Shanghai-based  Q.Pro Inspection &
Technical Services Co.  added some catalyst into the pipeline to
desulfurize crude oil imported from Venezuela, the newspaper
reported, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the
matter. Details of the incident are still being investigated,
the newspaper said.  
 Thomas Luo, an official at Q.Pro, declined to comment on
the report when contacted by Bloomberg.  
 -- Wang Ying . With assistance from  Chua Baizhen  in Beijing.
Editors:  Ryan Woo ,  Jane Lee .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        