-- Comcast Purchase of NBC May Require the Selling of Stations or Arbitration
-- Todd Shields
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/comcast-purchase-of-nbc-may-require-the-selling-of-stations-or-arbitration.html

          
          
             Comcast Corp.  may have to sell some
NBC television stations or agree to have independent arbitration
settle pricing disputes to get U.S. government approval for
buying General Electric Co.’s  NBC Universal .  
 These are among the remedies the U.S.  Federal
Communications Commission  or the  Justice Department  may require
to ease fears about keeping television markets competitive
following the $28 billion deal, antitrust analysts said.  
 Comcast, the largest U.S. cable operator, would get control
of the NBC television network and broadcast stations and sports
networks in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, San
Francisco and Washington, six of the biggest U.S. television
markets, plus Hartford, Connecticut. Comcast also would acquire
NBC’s national cable networks, including Bravo, USA Network,
MSNBC and CNBC, and national sports and Olympic Games
programming.  
 Philadelphia-based Comcast’s power in key markets is
“absolutely going to be a major concern” for officials, said
 Craig Moffett , an analyst at New York-based  Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co .  
 FCC and Justice Department spokeswomen declined to comment
on their agencies’ investigations.  
 Comcast in a filing said the markets in question are
“major communities” that will have at least seven TV stations
it won’t own after the transaction closes.  
 The deal “is pro-competitive, pro-consumer and strongly in
the public interest,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Comcast spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  
 Public Comments  
 The public has until Aug. 5 to weigh in on the deal, which
was  announced  in December. Thousands of comments have been filed
with the FCC, including demands that Comcast sell  Hulu , NBC’s
video website, and calls for disclosing how much revenue the
company receives from pornography.  
 “The sheer complexity of the issues” confronting
investigators will delay the conclusion of a government review
until next year,  Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  analysts  Rebecca Arbogast 
and  David Kaut  said in a July 8 note to clients.  
 Moffett said the government may demand arbitration
procedures that ensure competitors get fair access to
programming, as they have in other deals.  
 Federal authorities could pressure Comcast to sell stations
if they think the company would quash new developments such as
multiple digital channels offered over the airwaves, said  Roger Noll , a  senior fellow  at the American Antitrust Institute, a
Washington-based policy group.  
 Snuffing Competition  
 What federal enforcers are “going to worry about is on the
distribution side, the snuffing out of competition,” Noll said
in an interview.  
 Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, has told the FCC it
wants to ensure its channel will be located on Comcast cable
near other business shows.  
 Comcast has gained supporters with recent agreements. It
got NBC affiliates on board by promising not to move the
Olympics and other major sporting events from broadcast to
cable.  
 In a bid for minority backing, the company has said it
plans to name a Latino to its board and will add to its
offerings eight independent channels owned by blacks or
Hispanics.  
 On July 12, Comcast, NBC Universal and the Los Angeles-
based Independent Film & Television Alliance  announced  a plan
requiring NBC to consider programs from independent producers.  
 U.S. authorities said they are examining all aspects of the
acquisition.  
 Seeking Agreement  
 Assistant Attorney General  Christine Varney , the top U.S.
antitrust official,  told senators  last month the Justice
Department will insist that the deal protects competition.  
 Investigators will take into account Comcast’s past
attempts to thwart competition, said  Lloyd Constantine , a former
New York state assistant attorney general in charge of antitrust
enforcement.  
 For more than a decade, Comcast has refused to sell
Philadelphia sports programming to DirecTV and Dish Network
Corp., two satellite competitors, DirecTV  said  in an FCC filing.  
 “They have in essence a rabid dog here,” Constantine
said.  
 Noll said Comcast has several points in its favor,
including its small share of national TV and cable channels and
increased competition from the Internet to distribute
programming.  
 Sports Programs  
 Chris Kelly , antitrust lawyer for Mayer Brown LLP in
Washington, said Comcast’s power to deny programming to rivals
is exaggerated and that it was unlikely the government would
pressure the company to sell NBC stations.  
 “It just doesn’t strike me that that’s really much of an
issue,” he said in an interview.  
 Comcast would still gain from the deal even if authorities
insist the company sell stations, said  Rick Franklin , a St.
Louis-based communications analyst with  Edward Jones .  
 “The value of those broadcast stations is pretty small
compared with the $30 billion size of the deal,” he said.  
 The NBC stations could be worth several hundred million
dollars each, said  Mark Fratrik , a vice president with
Chantilly, Virginia-based  BIA/Kelsey .  
 Comcast may prefer to drop some stations rather than agree
to arbitration, which could reduce the price Comcast gets for
programs, New York-based Collins Stewart LLC analyst  Tom Eagan 
said in an interview.  
 The deal “will go through,” he said. “The big question
is the degree of concessions they would have to agree to.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Bliss  in Washington 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       COMCAST NBC GE  
                       
                         
                           Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Anchors prepare for a Comcast SportsNet broadcast at Wachovia Center arena, which is owned by Comcast Corp. in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S. Comcast Corp., the largest U.S. cable-television operator, agreed to form a $37 billion joint venture combining General Electric Co.'s NBC Universal with its own media assets, strengthening a push into programming. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Anchors prepare for a Comcast SportsNet broadcast at Wachovia Center arena, which is owned by Comcast Corp. in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S. Comcast Corp., the largest U.S. cable-television operator, agreed to form a $37 billion joint venture combining General Electric Co.'s NBC Universal with its own media assets, strengthening a push into programming. Photographer: Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
