-- Comic-Con's Grown-Up Nerds Give Mattel, Hasbro New Toy Pitches
-- Michael White
-- 2010-07-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/comic-con-s-grown-up-nerds-give-mattel-hasbro-new-way-to-pitch-girls-toys.html

          
          
             Move over Green Lantern. The new
stars of this week’s  Comic-Con International  comic-book festival
may be Barbie and Strawberry Shortcake.  
 Like Hollywood studios,  Mattel Inc.  and  Hasbro Inc.  view
the annual Comic-Con gathering in San Diego, the biggest U.S.
comic-book and movie convention, as a pipeline to fans who can
build buzz for new products. They’re pushing to put toys in
films and on TV, and see the show as more than a nerd-fest.  
 “It’s turned from a fanboy event to a family event,” said
Doug Wadleigh, vice president of boys action play marketing for
Mattel, based in El Segundo, California. “Parents are bringing
their kids.”  
 About 40 percent of this year’s attendees will be female,
the organizers say.  Mattel  and  Hasbro , the world’s largest toy
companies, will sell limited-edition dolls and offer peeks at
new products to an estimated 125,000 fans registered to attend
starting today. Hasbro is bringing figures based on characters
from “G.I. Joe” and “Transformers.” Mattel is producing
“Masters of the Universe” and “Ghostbusters” toys.  
 Mattel is spotlighting girls toys at Comic-Con for the
first time, Wadleigh said in an interview. Barbie has a booth
and the company is selling a limited-edition Polly Pocket
figure, he said. Mattel is also promoting Monster High, a toy
line that targets girls.  
 Adult Collectors  
 Worldwide toy sales rose 3.6 percent to $80.3 billion last
year, according to researcher NPD Group based in Port
Washington, New York. Adult collectors spend more than $1
billion a year on film and comic-related products and even more
on toys for their children, according to Jim Silver, editor-in-
chief of  TimetoPlayMag.com  and Royalties$ magazine. Limited-
edition toys are a popular draw.  
 “It gets your fans talking,” Silver said. “They talk a
lot on the Web. If you do a really great collector’s item, it
can enhance the overall value of that toy line.”  
 Hasbro, based in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, is offering an
exclusive Strawberry Shortcake doll and a My Little Pony figure.  
 Typically, 1,500 or so copies of exclusive toys are made
and are sold only at Comic-Con, Silver said.  
 “Exclusives are really what bring people in,” Silver
said.  
 Comic-Con also gives the toymakers an opportunity to
showcase products at the same time studios are promoting movies
that the toys inspired. Hasbro’s Transformers and G.I. Joe toys
both have become the basis for big-budget movies produced by
 Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount Pictures.  
 Movie Tie-Ins  
 Sales of Transformers toys and merchandise rose to $590
million last year with the release of the second movie from $480
million in 2007, when the first film was released,  John Frascotti , Hasbro’s global chief marketing officer, said in an
interview.  
 In October, Hasbro will start a new cable television
channel, The Hub, with  Discovery Communications Inc.  The
programming will include shows based on Hasbro toys, including
Transformers, G.I. Joe and Strawberry Shortcake, according to a
May 17  statement  from the companies.  
 Mattel is considering a movie based on the “Monster High”
toy line, Wadleigh said. The company also is trying to develop a
film based on the 1980s’ “Masters of the Universe” TV show.
The idea, he said, is for consumers to spend more time with
Mattel products.  
 “Adults like to engage in play, whether it’s games or
action-figure collecting,” Wadleigh said. “This playful
attitude in society is one we’re really focusing on as a
company. I don’t know where it’s going to take us, but it is an
exciting new direction.”  
 Old Comic-Con  
 The first Comic-Con in 1970 focused on comics and novels
and had guests including author  Ray Bradbury , according to the
convention’s Web site. Things changed as Hollywood studios began
basing more films on comic-book characters.  
 This year,  Time Warner Inc. ’s Warner Bros. will host a
presentation on “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part
I,” based on the last book in the series by J.K. Rowling. The
film is scheduled for release In November.  Walt Disney Co.  will
show footage from “Tron: Legacy,” due in theaters in December.  
 Barbie and Strawberry Shortcake aren’t the only variations.
Television networks are promoting shows that don’t fit with the
usual Comic-con fare, such as comedies, along with horror series
such as the vampire saga “True Blood” on Time Warner’s HBO.  
 News Corp.’s FX cable network will host a presentation
about “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia,” a comedy starring
 Danny DeVito .  General Electric Co. ’s NBC Universal will screen
footage of “Community,” a comedy series about students at a
community college.  
 Some hard-core fans don’t like the shift away from science
fiction, horror and fantasy. Most embrace it, said Jonah
Weiland, owner of the  web site  Comic Book Resources.  
 “There is a smaller group, very vocal, who like the old
days when Comic-Con was just a comic-book convention,” said
Weiland, who has attended for the past 18 years. “But truth be
told, Comic-Con was never just a comic convention.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hasbro is bringing figures based on characters from “G.I. Joe” and "Transformers". Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- The annual Comic-Con International comic-book and movie convention in San Diego is attracting exhibitors including toymakers such as Mattel Inc. and Hasbro Inc. looking to build buzz on their toys. Bloomberg's Scarlet Fu reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
