-- Commodity Pay for Bankers, Traders, Analysts Jumps 12% as Vacancies Up 70%
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-07-22T15:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/commodity-pay-for-bankers-traders-analysts-jumps-12-as-vacancies-up-70-.html

          
          
             Salaries on the U.K. commodity desks
of investment banks, trading houses and utilities expanded 10
percent to 12 percent in the first half from a year ago as
vacancies jumped 70 percent, headhunter  Morgan McKinley  said.  
 “The candidate market remains tight due to reduced levels
of hiring over the last two years resulting in a skills gap”
and as U.K. companies have begun to expand operations in the
industry, Simon Godfrey, manager of the commodities division at
Morgan McKinley, said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Average commodity  prices  rose 18 percent in the first half
from a year earlier as the world economy revived from the global
financial crisis and Chinese consumption surged, fueling demand
for traders and analysts.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the second-
biggest U.S. bank, agreed in February to pay $1.7 billion for
the metal and oil activities and European power and gas assets
of RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, a London Metal Exchange member.  
 The Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index  of 19 raw materials touched
a high for the year Jan. 6 as the economy in China, the largest
user of copper, iron ore and coal, grew almost 12 percent.  
 Professionals are also finding jobs more quickly because of
the shortage of candidates, according to Morgan McKinley’s first
twice-yearly report on trends in the industry issued yesterday.
Individuals in the U.K. find a new position on average 58.5 days
after registering for a job, down from 64.9 days in 2009.  
 Lack of Staff  
 A lack of skilled staff for trading and sales jobs “looks
set to continue for the remainder of 2010,” the report said.
The majority of new permanent jobs in the first half were
focused on oil and crude products, representing 41 percent of
the total, with about a quarter in metals, it said.  
 Banks also sought to hire staff for  iron-ore  operations as
Vale SA, BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, the biggest
exporters, forced steelmakers to abandon a 40-year custom of
pricing the material annually in favor of quarterly agreements.
Steelmakers including  ThyssenKrupp AG , Germany’s largest, said
they were studying the use of derivatives to fix future costs.  
 The iron ore market was one area “where several of the
larger banks have looked to recruit talent in order to take
advantage of the growth of the spot market,” the report said.  
 China imported 309.4 million metric tons of  iron ore  in the
first six months of 2010, 4.1 percent more than in the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The price of the ore in China, used to produce steel, rose
to $186.50 a ton in April, the highest for data from Steel
Business Briefing on Bloomberg going back to November 2008.  
 To contact the reporter on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        