-- Rangel to Face New Charges of Violating Ethics Rules
-- Ryan Donmoyer
-- 2010-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/congressman-rangel-will-face-new-charges-of-violating-house-ethics-rules.html

          
          
             U.S. Representative  Charles Rangel 
of New York faces new House ethics charges following a two-year
investigation of his travel, personal finances and fundraising
for a college center named for him.  
 Rangel , a Democrat, stepped aside in March as chairman of
the House tax-writing committee after the chamber’s ethics panel
admonished him for accepting corporate-sponsored travel in
violation of a House rule.  
 The Committee on Standards and Official Conduct announced
the new charges yesterday against Rangel, 80, though it didn’t
disclose the nature of the allegations. A hearing will be
convened July 29 by a bipartisan adjudicatory subcommittee, the
statement said.  
 “I look forward to responding” to the charges, Rangel
told reporters. “I have waited a long time” and “at long last
the sun will be piercing over the cloud I have been carrying for
almost two years.” He said he couldn’t discuss the charges
because “I would not know exactly what their findings are.”  
 Rangel has served in Congress since 1971. He won election
after successfully challenging Representative Adam Clayton
Powell Jr. in the 1970 Democratic primary. He is being
challenged this year by Adam Clayton Powell IV for the party’s
nomination.  
 Rangel said he hopes “this will be aired before the
September primary and certainly before the November election.”  
 “Live on C-SPAN”  
 House Republican leader  John Boehner  of Ohio said in a
statement that plans for a public hearing on the charges --“the
equivalent of a trial, live on C-SPAN” -- were a “sad
reminder” of the promise by House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  that she
would “drain the swamp in Washington.”  
 An investigating subcommittee has been looking into whether
Rangel failed to disclose income from a rental villa he owns in
the Dominican Republic and misused four rent-controlled
apartments in Manhattan.  
 Rangel, who referred his own case to the ethics committee
two years ago saying he expected to be vindicated, has amended
five years of his financial disclosure statements to include
more than $500,000 in investments he had previously omitted.  
 The ethics panel has been investigating whether Rangel
preserved a tax loophole for oil driller Nabors Industries Ltd.
after its chief executive pledged $1 million to the Charles
Rangel Center, a school of public service at City College of New
York. He has also been investigated for using congressional
stationery to contact potential donors for the Rangel Center.  
 Watchdog Group  
 Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a
non-profit watchdog organization, called on Rangel to resign
from Congress.  
 “The notoriously lax ethics committee has found
substantial reason to believe that Representative Rangel has
violated federal law, House rules, or both,” said CREW
Executive Director  Melanie Sloan . “Representative Rangel has
toughed it out as long as he could; the time clearly has come
for him to resign.”  
 California Representative  Zoe Lofgren , a Democrat and
chairwoman of the full ethics committee, will lead the
adjudicatory subcommittee that will consider the evidence
against Rangel, the statement said. Republican Representative
 Michael McCaul  of Texas will be the ranking member, and six
other members will also hear evidence.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 James Rowley  in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Representative Charles Rangel, a Democrat from New York, listens during a news conference. Photographer: Kevin Dietsch/Pool via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
