-- Congress Extends $34 Billion Jobless Benefits Package
-- Brian Faler
-- 2010-07-22T22:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/congress-set-to-approve-extension-of-unemployment-benefits-for-millions.html

          
          
             President  Barack Obama  signed into
law a measure restoring  unemployment  benefits that were cut off
to more than 2.5 million Americans by an election-year fight
over whether the cost should be added to the federal  deficit .  
 Obama acted a few hours after the House gave final approval
to the $34 billion plan on a 272-152  vote . Ten Democrats opposed
the bill; 31 Republicans supported it. The Senate passed the
legislation yesterday 59-39.  
 “Americans who are fighting to find a good job and support
their families will finally get the support they need to get
back on their feet during these tough economic times,” Obama
said in a statement.  
 The president criticized Republicans for trying to block
the measure and called on Congress to pass legislation that
would boost lending and cut taxes for small businesses.  
 The usually routine unemployment aid extension had been
bogged down for weeks in the Senate where Republicans
unsuccessfully demanded that it be financed with savings
elsewhere in the government’s budget.  
 “All I can say is, it’s about time,” said Representative
 James McGovern , a Massachusetts Democrat. “For seven weeks
millions of Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault
of their own have worried about how they’re going to pay for
their groceries, pay for their rent, pay for their mortgage or
pay for their children’s college tuition.”  
 Deficit Effect  
 Republicans said they support the extended benefits and
opposed the measure only because of its effect on the deficit.  
 “Are we going to engage in fiscal child abuse and borrow
the money, principally from the Chinese, to pay for this? Or are
we not? That’s the question,” said Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican.  
 The seating of the late Senator  Robert Byrd ’s successor,
 Carte Goodwin , gave Democrats the last vote needed to break a
Republican filibuster this week.  
 The bill provides retroactive aid to those whose checks
were cut off when benefits expired June 2, while extending
through November a program offering up to 99 weeks of
assistance.  
 The jobless can expect to begin receiving checks again as
soon as next week, though some states will likely take longer,
said Andrew Stettner, deputy director of the National Employment
Law Project, an advocacy group for the unemployed. Benefits vary
by state, ranging from $235 per week in Mississippi to $629 per
week in Massachusetts. The national average is $310.  
 Dropped Provisions  
 Democrats dropped several aid provisions amid complaints
over the cost. The bill won’t revive a 65 percent subsidy
created last year to help the jobless buy health insurance
through their former employers. That provision benefited up to 2
million households last year at a cost of $2 billion,  according 
to the Treasury Department.  
 The subsidy meant the average family paid $398 a month for
coverage rather than $1,137, according to the Henry J. Kaiser
Family Foundation in Menlo Park, California.  
 Lawmakers also ended a supplemental $25 weekly payment,
which will amount to a 10 percent cut in states with the least
generous assistance, and dropped a tax exemption for the first
$2,400 in aid. The bill also doesn’t provide additional aid to
the growing number of Americans who have received the maximum 99
weeks of aid. A Goldman Sachs Group Inc. report predicted the
number of Americans using up their aid could reach 400,000 per
month.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  told lawmakers
yesterday that the unemployment rate is unlikely to return to
pre-recession levels any time soon. He said the jobless rate
probably won’t shrink to 7 or 7.5 percent until the end of 2012.  
 It will take a “significant amount of time” to restore
the almost 8.5 million jobs lost in 2008 and 2009, Bernanke told
the Senate Banking Committee.  
 The earliest point that Congress has allowed extended
unemployment benefits to permanently lapse during an economic
recovery was when the jobless rate fell to 7.4 percent,
according to a Goldman Sachs report. The report said that
happened in 1985 and 1978.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The House voted 272-152 to forward the $34 billion extension of unemployment benefit measure to President Barack Obama, who said he will quickly sign it into law. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
