-- ConocoPhillips May Close German Refinery After Writing Off $1.1 Billion
-- Edward Klump
-- 2010-07-22T20:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/conocophillips-may-close-german-refinery-after-writing-off-1-1-billion.html

          
          
             ConocoPhillips , the third-largest
U.S. oil company, may close a German refinery idled after a May
1 fire and said it will record $1.1 billion in second-quarter
costs to reflect a drop in the value of the plant.  
 Plans to upgrade the Wilhelmshaven  refinery  have been
canceled, Houston-based ConocoPhillips said today in a
statement. The company reiterated that it also may sell the
260,000-barrel-a-day plant or convert it to a fuel terminal.  
 ConocoPhillips  doesn’t plan to resume making fuel at the
plant because of economic conditions, spokesman  Bill Stephens 
said. The $1.1 billion charge reflects the difference between
the refinery’s market value and its value on the company’s
books, he said. The company is cutting investment in so-called
downstream operations after refining profit margins narrowed.  
 “This move is consistent with our stated strategy of
maintaining capital discipline and reducing our downstream
portfolio over time,”  Willie Chiang , senior vice president of
refining, marketing and transportation, said in the statement.  
 ConocoPhillips rose $1.15, or 2.2 percent, to $53.27 as of
the 4 p.m. close of New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The  stock  has climbed 4.3 percent this year.  
 The company  bought  the Wilhelmshaven plant from Louis
Dreyfus Energy Holdings Ltd. in 2005 for an undisclosed price.
Stephens declined today to say how much the company paid for the
plant and wouldn’t say if ConocoPhillips hired an adviser to
work on a potential sale of the asset.  
 Plant Conversions  
 ConocoPhillips joins refiners including  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc , Total SA, and Petroplus Holdings AG in closing or
converting plants amid declining European demand for fuels such
as gasoline and diesel.  
 The $1.1 billion estimate for the plant write-off is after
tax, ConocoPhillips said. The company is scheduled to report
 earnings  next week.  
 Refining margins, or the profit from turning crude oil into
fuels, started the third quarter averaging $2.76 a barrel in
northwest Europe, according to  data  by BP Plc. That compares
with $3.84 in the second quarter and $2.60 in the third quarter
of last year.  
 Petroplus and  Total  halted refining operations at Teesside
in the U.K. and Dunkirk in France, respectively. Shell, which is
trying to sell its Heide and Hamburg plants in Germany and its
Stanlow complex in the U.K., plans to convert its Montreal
refinery to a fuel terminal.  
 ConocoPhillips  said on March 24 it plans to reduce its
refining capacity to 2 million to 2.2 million barrels a day by
2012 from 2.7 million barrels a day in 2009.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nidaa Bakhsh  in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net ;
 Edward Klump  in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        