-- Conrad Black, Free on Bail, Will Face Judge who Sentenced Him in Chicago
-- Linda Sandler
-- 2010-07-22T04:35:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/conrad-black-free-on-bail-will-face-judge-who-sentenced-him-in-chicago.html

          
          
             Ex-Hollinger International Inc.
chairman  Conrad Black , free on bail after more than two years at
a Florida prison, must return to Chicago tomorrow to face the
judge who handed down his sentence.  
 U.S. District Judge  Amy J. St. Eve , who in 2007 ordered
Black to serve 6 1/2 years in prison, is scheduled to instruct
him on the limits of his bail. Yesterday, she ordered him
released after he posted a $2 million bond with the help of a
friend.  
 After that order, Black, 65, left the low-security  Coleman
Federal Correctional Institution  where he had been confined
since March 2008, said prison spokesman Gary Miller. Black, who
is appealing mail fraud and obstruction of justice convictions
related to sales of Hollinger’s assets, won’t be permitted to
leave the U.S. unless St. Eve changes the terms of his release.  
 “His home is in Canada,”  Miguel A. Estrada , an attorney
for Black, told the judge at yesterday’s bail hearing, seeking
greater freedom for his client. St. Eve said she would consider
that request after seeing a financial statement for Black and
hearing from a pretrial services officer.  
 Black’s Canadian assets are tied up by a court order,
Estrada told the judge.  
 Reconsider Fraud  
 A federal appeals court granted Black’s petition for bail
this week, following a June 24 U.S. Supreme Court decision
narrowing the scope of a law relied upon by prosecutors in their
case against him. The justices told the lower court to
reconsider Black’s fraud conviction.  
 Roger Hertog , a former vice chairman of Alliance Bernstein
Holding LP and chairman of the New York Historical Society,
guaranteed Black’s bail. Hertog attended yesterday’s hearing and
declined to comment after it.  
 Peter White, a longtime Black friend and a former Hollinger
executive who has stayed in touch with him by e-mail, said he
will probably spend his first days of freedom with his wife,
Barbara, who divides her time between Florida and Toronto.  
 Black will stop at a Palm Beach, Florida, house he once
owned to pick up clothes and perhaps stay a night or two before
going to Chicago, Estrada said. Black, whose passport expired,
will need a letter from the prison allowing him to board a
flight to Chicago, according to his lawyers.  
 Restricted Travel  
 Before trial, St. Eve restricted Black’s travel to the
regions surrounding the federal courthouse in Chicago and his
Palm Beach mansion. He was barred from traveling to his native
Canada while on bail.  
 St. Eve, inquiring about the status of the Florida property
yesterday, was told by Estrada that Black has retained a
“contract interest” in the house and can re-acquire title if
he pays an outstanding lien by September.  
 Black, writing in an April  column  for Canada’s National
Post newspaper, denied that his home had been foreclosed on and
sold. Toronto’s  Globe and Mail  newspaper in March reported the
property was conveyed to a Connecticut investment firm,
Blackfield Holdings LLC.  
 Property Sold  
 Local property records show the house at 1930 South Ocean
Blvd. was sold in February for $11.6 million. Palm Beach real
estate agent Linda Gary, reported by Toronto’s Globe and Mail to
be handling the sale, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  
 The house is on the market, Estrada told the judge.  
 The amount of Black’s new bond was agreed to by both sides,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Julie Porter told St. Eve yesterday.  
 Black and three associates were found guilty of stealing
$6.1 million from Hollinger International as they engineered
sales of its assets. Black was sentenced to 6 1/2 years on the
obstruction of justice charge and received a five-year
concurrent sentence for fraud.  
 The Supreme Court, siding with Black and former Enron Corp.
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling  in separate rulings on
June 24, said a law that makes it a crime to “deprive another
of the intangible right to honest services” may be used only in
cases involving bribery or kickbacks. Black faced no such
allegations in his prosecution, the justices said.  
 Obstruction of Justice  
 The Supreme Court didn’t deal with Black’s crime of
obstructing justice.  
 Black led Hollinger, then the world’s third-largest
publisher of English language newspapers, as its CEO from 1995
to 2003, and served as its chairman from November 2003 to
January 2004. The Chicago-based company is now known as the  Sun-
Times Media Group Inc.   
 Black sold most of the newspaper assets to Canwest Global
Communications Corp. in 2000 for C$3.2 billion ($3 billion),
having boasted that he convinced Canwest then Chairman Israel
“Izzy” Asper to overpay.  
 The U.S. Internal Revenue Service claims Black owes the U.S.
government almost $71 million in unpaid taxes and penalties,
according to court records.  
 Tax Case  
 The IRS said Black failed to pay taxes on his personal use
of Hollinger jets, corporate money he spent on papers by
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  and his private secretary, and
Hollinger’s 2000 purchase of a $5.9 million New York apartment
for his use. Black wrote a biography of Roosevelt.  
 Black has asked the U.S. Tax Court to throw out the
assessment, which covers payments due for 1998 to 2003. He said
in a petition that the IRS relied on “sloppy and careless”
findings, from an investigation that led to his conviction, when
authorities compiled estimates of his income and unpaid taxes.  
 Black said he wasn’t required to file tax returns because
he wasn’t a U.S. resident, court records show.  
 The IRS suit against Black was filed April in federal Tax
Court in Washington.  
 A status hearing on remaining U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission allegations in its case against Black, which was on
hold while criminal proceedings advanced, is set for Dec. 16,
according to a July 19 court filing.  
 SEC Lawsuit  
 The SEC, which sued Black in 2004 claiming he and former
Hollinger President  David Radler  stole $85 million from the
company, won a partial judgment in 2008 that Black broke the law
by making false statements about Hollinger’s dealings.  
 Separately, Radler settled with the SEC in 2007 and Black’s
bankrupt holding company Hollinger Inc. settled with the SEC in
2008. Sun-Times Media agreed in 2007 to pay investors $30
million to settle U.S. and Canadian securities fraud cases.  
 The trial court case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appellate case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Linda Sandler  in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        