-- Continental Airlines Beats Profit Estimates as Fares Rise on Travel Demand
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-07-22T20:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/continental-airlines-returns-to-profit-on-increased-travel-higher-fares.html

          
          
             Continental Airlines Inc. , poised to
merge with United Airlines to become the world’s biggest
carrier, posted a second-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates as airfares rose.  
 Earnings excluding some costs were $1.60 a share, Houston-
based Continental said today. That exceeded the $1.53 average of
12  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The shares advanced amid a
rally among most U.S. airlines.  
 Continental, the fourth-largest U.S. carrier, capped
reports this week by its three biggest rivals, including United
parent UAL Corp. The industry is taking advantage of a revival
in business travel by raising fares and keeping planes full
after shrinking available seats during the recession.  
 “We expect demand to remain robust and expect fuel costs
to remain relatively stable,”  James Corridore , a Standard &
Poor’s equity analyst in New York, said today in a note. He
rates the shares as “strong buy.”  
 Continental  rose 86 cents, or 3.7 percent, to $24.14 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares are up 35 percent this year. The 12-carrier  Bloomberg
U.S. Airlines Index  gained 4 percent, the most since July 7.  
 Delta Air Lines Inc. , the world’s biggest airline, and UAL
both reported profits this week. American Airlines parent AMR
Corp. posted a second-quarter loss.  
 Separately today,  JetBlue Airways Corp.  posted earnings of
10 cents a share, which beat the 8-cent average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 Alaska Air Group Inc.  said per-share profit was $2.29,
exceeding analysts’ $2.13 estimate.  
 Net Income  
 Including $24 million in merger-related costs and expenses
for a Denver maintenance facility, Continental said net income
was $233 million, or $1.46 a share, compared with a loss of $213
million, or $1.72, a year earlier.  
 Sales  climbed 19 percent to $3.7 billion, Continental said,
while fuel spending rose 8.6 percent to $968 million.  
 Continental has “great momentum as we head into the second
half of the year,” Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Smisek  said in
the statement. The airline’s planes set monthly occupancy
records in May and June.  
 The carrier will keep a “rigorous capacity discipline” in
order to keep more control over fares, Smisek said today on a
conference call with analysts. Full-year capacity will be down
12 percent compared to 2007, he said.  
 The nine biggest U.S. airlines are expected to have
combined net income of $1.7 billion for their first group
quarterly profit in 2 1/2 years, according to  Michael Derchin ,
an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC based in Stamford,
Connecticut.  
 Continental and United are awaiting regulatory approval of
their stock-swap merger, which they announced on May 3. Smisek
will continue as CEO of the combined carrier, while United CEO
 Glenn Tilton  will become non-executive chairman. United is the
third-biggest U.S. airline, after Delta and American.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mary Schlangenstein  in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        