-- Copper Gains to 10-Week High as Housing Report Boosts Outlook
-- Millie Munshi
-- 2010-07-22T18:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/copper-rises-for-fourth-day-in-london-on-weaker-dollar-advancing-equities.html

          
          
             Copper rose to the highest price in
almost 10 weeks after a report showed sales of previously owned
U.S. homes fell less than forecast in June, bolstering the
demand outlook for the metal.  
 Purchases of existing houses dropped 5.1 percent to a 5.37
million annual rate, the National Association of Realtors said
today. Economists predicted a 5.1 million rate, the median of 74
 forecasts  in a Bloomberg News survey. Copper advanced as much as
3.2 percent after the report. Prices also rose as the dollar
dropped.  
 “It’s starting to look like we’re getting a bottom into
housing, and we may see thing start to turn around soon,” said
 Michael K. Smith , the president of T&K Futures & Options in Port
St. Lucie, Florida. “Once housing picks up again, it’s going to
be a huge benefit to copper.”  
 Copper futures for September delivery increased 7.15 cents,
or 2.3 percent, to $3.1645 a pound on the Comex in New York.
Earlier, the price reached $3.193, the highest level for a most-
active contract since May 14.  
 The  greenback  dropped as much as much as 1.1 percent
against a basket of six major currencies.  
 “A weaker dollar and, especially, strong equity markets in
Europe are moving metals prices higher,” said  Eugen Weinberg ,
an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  
 The MSCI World Index of global equities gained as much as
2.2 percent. U.S. shares gained on bullish profit forecasts.  
 Yesterday, Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc., the world’s
biggest publicly traded producer, said the metal’s outlook is
“positive.”  
 Physical markets for copper “are really stronger than
economic indicators in the U.S.,” Freeport Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Adkerson  said. “Our order books are filling up
more strongly than they have in some time.”  
 Copper for delivery in three months gained $150, or 2.2
percent, to $7,010 a metric ton ($3.18 a pound) on the London
Metal Exchange.  
 Aluminum, nickel, zinc, tin and lead also climbed on the
LME.  
 To contact the reporters on the story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net ;
 Millie Munshi  in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        