-- Copper May Climb in London on Waning Production, Survey Shows
-- Anna Stablum
-- 2010-07-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/copper-may-climb-in-london-next-week-on-declining-production-survey-shows.html

          
          
             Copper may rise on speculation that
demand will maintain its pace as output from mines drops at
leading producers, a survey showed.  
 Nine of 15 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 60 percent, said the metal will gain next week.
Six predicted lower prices. Copper for delivery in three months
was 8.1 percent higher for this week at $7,010 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange at 5 p.m. yesterday.  
 Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. , the world’s largest
publicly traded copper miner, said this week second-quarter
mined copper output slid 13 percent from a year earlier. Also
this week, BHP Billiton Ltd., the third-biggest producer, said
output of the metal from mines slid 5 percent from the prior
year in the three months through June.  
 “Growing evidence that there isn’t enough copper being
produced” will aid prices next week,  David Thurtell , a
Citigroup Inc. analyst in London, said by telephone. He also
pointed to “the China story about more stimulus in the second
half and data showing that Europe appears to have come out of
its sovereign-debt crisis relatively unscathed.”  
 Chinese stocks  posted the longest winning streak since
February this week on speculation the government may relax curbs
on property and lending. In Europe, a composite index based on a
survey of euro-area services and manufacturing purchasing
managers rose to a higher-than-expected 56.7 from 56 in June,
Markit Economics said yesterday.  
 The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of July 16.  
 The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
46 of the past 96 weeks, or 48 percent of the time.  
 This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 9  Bearish : 6  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anna Stablum  in London at 
 astablum@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        