-- Covered Bond Sales Rise to a Record on Rising U.S. Demand: Canada Credit
-- Doug Alexander
-- 2010-07-22T04:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/covered-bond-sales-rise-to-a-record-on-rising-u-s-demand-canada-credit.html

          
          
             Bank of Nova Scotia  and three other
Canadian lenders sold a record $10.5 billion of covered bonds
this year, tapping investor demand in the U.S. to lower their
borrowing costs as yields rise in Europe.  
 Canadian banks have targeted U.S. investors to issue debt
backed by residential mortgages, paying lower rates than in
Europe. Covered bonds sales rose sevenfold from all of 2009,
with five of the seven deals in U.S. dollars, according to
Bloomberg data.  
 “If you look at the U.S. market for Canadian covered bonds
we can get an advantaged price, certainly hugely lower than what
you’d get in Europe,” Bank of Montreal Treasurer  Cathy Cranston 
said. “There’s terrific demand for Canadian covered bonds.”  
 Lenders in Canada have turned to covered bonds to help fund
mortgages, tapping a market that dates back 230 years in Europe.
The bonds are typically backed by mortgages or public-sector
loans and the collateral underlying the debt remains with the
borrower, which also guarantees the bonds.  
 Canadian banks have predominantly issued covered bonds in
euros since they began tapping the $3 trillion European-
dominated market in 2007. The lenders turned to the U.S. for the
first time this year after a debt crisis in Europe led investors
there to demand higher yields.  Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce , the country’s fifth-biggest bank, raised $2 billion in
a U.S.-dollar sale in January.  
 The U.S. market remains “the one to beat” in terms of
potential and economics, said  Wojtek Niebrzydowski , CIBC’s vice
president of treasury.  
 ‘Lot of Money’  
 “We are getting 30 to 40 basis points better economics in
the U.S. than we could in Europe,” Toronto-based Niebrzydowski
said. “That’s a lot of money.”  
 Elsewhere in credit markets, the province of Saskatchewan
sold a 3.9 percent C$300 million ($286 million) bond maturing in
July 2020 at 78 basis points, or 0.78 percentage point, above
comparable Canadian government bonds.  
 The province of Quebec plans a benchmark-sized issue of 10-
year bonds in U.S. dollars, according to a banker involved with
the sale. The province hired Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc and National Bank of Canada
to manage the sale.  
 The extra yield investors demand to own Canada company
bonds instead of government debt ended yesterday at 144 basis
points, compared with 142 basis points the previous day,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Canadian
Corporate Index.  
 Bank of Nova Scotia  
 Bank of Nova Scotia was the latest Canadian bank to tap the
covered bond market, selling $2.5 billion in 1.45 percent bonds
on July 15. The three-year debt was priced to yield 52.2 basis
points over government debt. The bank paid 125 basis points more
than government bonds last month when it sold $1 billion in
global bonds maturing in December 2013.  
 Most Canadian covered bonds are underpinned by mortgages
insured by the federal government’s  Canadian Mortgage and
Housing Corp.   
 “Investors are liking these because Canadian banks are
seen as being strong and they’re also getting that AAA rating,”
said  Robert Follis , head of corporate debt research at
Scotiabank’s Scotia Capital unit in Toronto. “Investors are
getting better-than-government yields with the same rating and
government-guaranteed mortgages as their support.”  
 Bank of Montreal’s Cranston blames the “funkiness of the
markets” for making Europe less appealing than the U.S. for
covered bond issues.  
 Prussian Debt  
 “In Europe things are bit crazy right now, people are
worried and there’s all sorts of uncertainty and
vulnerability,” Toronto-based Cranston said. “The overall
price that it takes for an investor to bite is quite a bit
higher for the return that they’re demanding.”  
 Covered bonds date back to 1770, when they were used in
Prussia to finance agriculture, according to the  European
Covered Bond Council , which represents securities firms and
borrowers. The covered bond market amounted to 2.38 trillion
euros ($3 billion) in outstanding debt at the end of 2008, the
council said.  
 Royal Bank of Canada was the first Canadian lender to sell
covered bonds when in raised 2 billion euros in 2007. Covered
bond sales started after Canada’s banking regulator set
conditions for lenders seeking to issue the debt.  
 Canadian banks sold $1.37 billion in covered bonds last
year, denominated in Swiss francs and Canadian dollars, compared
with $6.6 billion in euro-denominated debt in 2008. Royal Bank,
Bank of Montreal, CIBC and Scotiabank issued covered bonds this
year, with 88 percent of the total denominated in U.S. dollars.  
 Canadian covered bond issuance will continue to gain
prominence because it’s the most cost-effective funding source
for banks after Canada Mortgage Bonds, CIBC’s  Niebrzydowski 
said.  
 “From the standpoint of Canadian banks it’s an important
funding source and it probably will end up being more important
as the time goes by,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        