-- Credit-Card Reform Succeeds in Ending Many Deceptive Practices, Pew Finds
-- Margaret Collins
-- 2010-07-22T20:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/credit-card-reform-succeeds-in-ending-many-deceptive-practices-pew-finds.html

          
          
             Credit cards offered online by the
12 largest U.S. banks have eliminated some of the most
troublesome practices for consumers, the Pew Charitable Trusts
said.  
 Increasing interest rates on existing balances for some
infractions of the card agreements and applying payments to
balances with the lowest interest rates first have ended,
according to the report released today by the Philadelphia-based
nonprofit organization. The study looked at almost 450 cards
advertised by banks and credit unions and compared terms for
cards offered in March 2010 and July 2009.  
 Many of the changes are the result of the  Credit Card
Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act , which takes
effect in stages. Its provisions include limiting rate increases
and requiring banks to apply payments to higher-rate balances.
Most of these rules took effect Feb. 22; others began Aug. 20,
2009, and some, such as prohibiting excessive late-payment fees,
will take effect Aug. 22.  
 “The good news is the market is much more transparent now
and lots of the practices deemed harmful to consumers have gone
away,” said Nick Bourke, director of Pew’s Safe Credit Cards
Project, which began studying how the industry treats consumers
in 2007. “There are still challenges.”  
 Penalty Rates  
 Penalty rates for actions such as missed payments remain
widespread, the report said. The median penalty rate rose by one
percentage point to 29.99 percent and almost half of bank cards,
including a card issued by Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank
of America Corp. , didn’t disclose their penalty rates, the
report said. Some issuers didn’t specify what would trigger
increases or how cardholders could return to lower rates.  
 “We review customers who are 60 days past due on a case-by
case-basis to determine if it is appropriate to re-price the
account,” said  Betty Riess , a Bank of America spokeswoman. “We
don’t have an automatic trigger.”  
 Customers are notified if their rate will increase and what
it will be, and they have the opportunity to opt out and close
the account, Riess said.  
 Median fees for bank cash advances and balance transfers
also rose to 4 percent from 3 percent. There was no indication
of a trend toward adding new fees, the report said. Fourteen
percent of cards surveyed included an annual fee compared with
15 percent in July 2009, while the median annual fee increased
to $59 from $50.  
 “The challenge will continue to be maintaining the
transparency that the card legislation was all about as the
market evolves,” Bourke said.  
 The industry is working hard to implement the changes the
law brought about “to eliminate frustrating practices and to
help customers manage their accounts betters,” said  Kenneth J. Clayton , senior vice president of card policy for the
Washington-based American Bankers Association.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bank of America Corp. president and chief executive officer Brian T. Moynihan. Photographer: Jonathan Fickies/Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  Pew Study 
     
    
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
