-- Credit Suisse Investment-Bank Profit Drops
-- Elena Logutenkova
-- 2010-07-22T15:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/credit-suisse-profit-unexpectedly-rises-1-4-on-tax-credit-gains-on-debt.html

          
          
             Credit Suisse Group AG ,
Switzerland’s second-largest bank, reported a drop in profit at
its investment banking unit in the second quarter as trading
revenue slumped amid Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  
 The bank fell 1 percent in Swiss trading after pretax
earnings at the division slid 53 percent to 784 million francs
($749 million), below the 1.01 billion-franc estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income rose 1.4 percent to
1.59 billion francs, buoyed by a tax credit and gains on the
company’s own debt, the Zurich-based bank said today.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan , who cut risk-taking
at Credit Suisse, described the economic and market situation as
“uncertain and challenging.” Swings in bond and stock markets
and signs the economic recovery in the U.S. may falter deterred
clients from trading, also hurting results at competitors
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and Citigroup Inc.  
 “Client trading diminished because of uncertainty from the
European sovereign debt crisis, so this inevitably led to lower
revenue and profits,” said  Peter Thorne , a London-based analyst
at Helvea Ltd., who has a “neutral” rating on the stock.  
 Credit Suisse fell 45 centimes to 43.8 francs in Zurich,
bringing the  decline  so far this year to 14 percent. That
compares with a 3.4 percent drop in UBS AG, the largest Swiss
bank. The 54-company Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index  has lost 4.1 percent this year.  
 Investment Banking  
 “We think economic activity will probably continue to
gradually improve,” Dougan said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “But we’re going to have volatility; we’re going to
have challenges in the markets during the rest of the year.”  
 New York-based Goldman, Citigroup,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and
Morgan Stanley, as well as Bank of America Corp. of Charlotte,
North Carolina, on average reported a 35 percent drop in trading
revenue in the second quarter from the first, company reports
show. The total revenue decline at their investment banks
averaged 28 percent.  
 “There’s very little chance to make money in fixed income
because volatility is very high and risk appetite massively
scaled down,” said  Dirk Hoffmann-Becking , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein in London with a “market perform” rating on
Credit Suisse.  
 Revenue at Credit Suisse’s investment bank fell 21 percent
to 4.1 billion francs from the first quarter, while trading
revenue slid 27 percent. The bank said credit-trading revenue
was affected by “difficult market conditions, including
widening credit spreads,” while emerging markets and corporate
lending were hurt as clients shunned risk.  
 Third Quarter  
 “The third quarter has been not dissimilar in terms of
market conditions to what we saw in the second quarter,”  David Mathers , chief operating officer of the investment bank, told
journalists on a conference call.  
 The investment bank’s pipeline in mergers and acquisitions
is up more than 20 percent from year-ago levels. In equity
capital markets, the increase is more than 90 percent, and in
leveraged finance more than double a year earlier, Mathers said.
“In order to actually execute that pipeline we need reasonably
stable market conditions,” he added.  
 The private bank attracted 13.8 billion francs in net new
investments from wealthy clients in the quarter. Pretax profit
at the division fell 6.5 percent to 874 million francs, below
analysts’ estimates for 893 million francs.  
 Credit Suisse’s offices in Germany were searched last week
in a probe into allegations that employees may have helped
clients evade taxes. Investigators seized substantial amounts of
data, according to  Johannes Mocken , a spokesman for the
Dusseldorf prosecutors’ office.  
 German Outflows  
 The raids came after German authorities obtained a disk
with data that prompted probes against some 1,100 customers of
Credit Suisse. The bank said it is cooperating with the
authorities.  
 There were “modest net outflows” from German clients who
book their assets in Switzerland in the second quarter,  Walter Berchtold , who heads wealth management, told journalists.  
 The company recorded a tax credit of 522 million francs and
gains of 922 million francs on its own debt, more than
offsetting costs of 447 million francs related to the U.K. tax
on bankers’ bonuses and 216 million francs in litigation
provisions.  
 Credit Suisse’s tier 1 capital ratio was 16.3 percent,
compared with 15.5 percent a year ago. Had Credit Suisse been
subjected to a similar stress test to the one now applied to
European Union banks, its capital ratio would still be “clearly
above our targeted 12.5 percent,” Chief Financial Officer
 Renato Fassbind  told journalists on the call.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Credit Suisse AG chief financial officer Renato Fassbind. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Richard Stovin-Bradford of the Financial Times' Lex commentary team talks with Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker about Credit Suisse Group AG's second-quarter profit reported today.
     Switzerland's second-largest bank said net income rose 1.4 percent to 1.59 billion Swiss francs, beating estimates. The company also reported a drop in profit at its investment banking unit as trading revenue slumped amid Europe's sovereign debt crisis. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Florian Esterer, a senior portfolio manager at Swisscanto Asset Management AG, talks about bank stress tests and the risk of European debt defaults.
     He speaks on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown" with Francine Lacqua. (This is an excerpt. Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Chief Executive Officer Brady Dougan described the economic and market situation as “uncertain and challenging.” Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     The headquarters of Credit Suisse AG. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
