-- Oil Trades Near 11-Week High in New York After Equities Gain on Earnings
-- Rachel Graham
-- 2010-07-22T12:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/crude-oil-futures-climb-in-new-york-on-weaker-dollar-advancing-equities.html

          
          
             Crude oil rose in New York as a
report showing accelerating growth in Europe’s manufacturing and
services industries signaled increasing demand in the region.  
 Oil climbed with equity markets after London-based Markit
Economics said today that an index based on a survey of euro-
area purchasing managers in both industries increased in July.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted a decline.  
 “When manufacturing goes up, you can expect to see
consumption going up too,” said  Gerrit Zambo , a trader with
Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “Crude oil is still getting a
steer from equities.”  
 Crude for September delivery gained as much as 68 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $77.24 a barrel in electronic trading on the New
York Mercantile Exchange and traded at $77 a barrel as of 12:35
p.m. London time. Brent for September settlement rose 25 cents
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London to $75.62 a barrel.  
 The  Europe Stoxx 600 Index  rose for a third day. Higher
equity markets often support crude oil on expectations that an
economic recovery may bolster fuel demand. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  has gained 4.1 percent this month while crude oil has
risen 5.5 percent.  
 “If equities have two or three good days, oil could go to
more than $80 a barrel,” said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst at
Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich in Vienna.  
 Oil also advanced as the dollar weakened, boosting demand
for commodities priced in the U.S. currency. The  Dollar Index ,
which measures the U.S. currency’s performance against six
counterparts, snapped three days of gains.  
 Crude futures declined 1.1 percent yesterday and had fallen
as much as 0.5 percent today after the U.S. Energy Department
said crude  stockpiles  grew by 360,000 barrels to 353.5 million
last week. Analysts in a Bloomberg News survey had predicted a
reduction in inventories.  
 Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest, said
yesterday during a commodity-outlook panel in Chicago that crude
will drop as low as $45 to $49 a barrel by the end of this year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Graham  in London 
 rgraham13@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        