-- Daiwa's Suzuki to Boost Asia Revenue to 160 Billion Yen in Fiscal 2011
-- Cathy Chan
-- 2010-07-22T09:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/daiwa-s-suzuki-to-boost-asia-revenue-to-160-billion-yen-in-fiscal-2011.html

          
          
             Daiwa Securities Group Inc. , Japan’s
second-largest brokerage, plans to increase its revenue from
Asia-related business to 160 billion yen ($1.8 billion) next
fiscal year, one third of which coming from its capital markets
business.  
 Revenue from Asia will rise to 30 percent of the group’s
total in fiscal 2011 from 10 percent now, Chief Executive
Officer  Shigeharu Suzuki  said in a statement today. Capital
markets revenue from its Asia offices is expected to reach 53
billion yen, he said.  
 Suzuki is expanding investment banking and broking globally
to fill the gap left after dissolving a 10-year-old joint
venture with Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. in December.
The revenue target includes KBC Groep NV’s convertible bond and
Asia equity derivatives units, which Daiwa earlier this month
agreed to acquire for about $1 billion, he said today.  
 Daiwa is adding to its fixed-income and derivative
operations in Asia and plans to acquire primary dealership and
derivative licenses in Korea and India, Suzuki said. Separately,
the company said today it hired Jung Insuk, who held a
leadership position in fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG,
to run its South Korean bond business, and Ajay Marwaha to head
its Indian bond business.  
 Hiring Costs  
 The brokerage, which reported revenue of 537.9 billion yen
last fiscal year, reiterated plans to hire 300 more staff in the
Asia-Pacific region by March 2012 for its derivatives and
equities business.  
 Daiwa’s  hiring  costs this fiscal year will be about 10
billion yen and an additional 20 billion yen may be required
later, Suzuki said, without giving a timeframe. He also repeated
plans to hire another 100 people in the region for underwriting
and mergers and acquisitions in next two years.  
 The company has hired more than 100 bankers, mainly for its
equity and derivative units, since October, bringing total
headcount in Asia to 850, it said in today’s statement. The new
appointments include Ravi Narain, Jimmy Kan, Ricky Lo and May
Tsang, all formerly Deutsche Bank AG employees, Daiwa said.  
 It expects to add 70 to 80 people to its Hong Kong office
as part of the KBC acquisition, Suzuki said.  
 Daiwa also intends to raise more than 70 billion yen in
capital for expansion in the  region , the Tokyo-based company
said in a presentation to analysts on May 17. Revenue from Asia,
excluding Japan, was 14 billion yen in the fiscal year ended
March 31, according to the presentation.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        