-- Dell Pays $100 Million in SEC Settlement That Lets Founder Stay
-- Aaron Ricadela
-- 2010-07-23T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/dell-agrees-to-pay-100-million-to-settle-sec-fraud-claims.html

          
          
             Dell Inc.  agreed to pay $100 million
to resolve a U.S. regulator’s accounting fraud claims in an
accord that lets founder  Michael Dell  remain chief executive
officer after paying a $4 million fine.  
 Dell, 45, and the personal-computer maker failed to tell
investors about “exclusivity payments” received from  Intel
Corp.  in exchange for not using products made by the chipmaker’s
main rival, the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a
complaint at federal court in Washington yesterday. The payments
allegedly helped Dell reach earnings targets from 2001 to 2006.  
 “Accuracy and completeness are the touchstones of public
company disclosure under the federal securities laws,” SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in the agency’s
statement. “Michael Dell and other senior Dell executives fell
short of that standard repeatedly over many years.”  
 The settlement helps Dell resolve inquiries about the role
payments from Intel played in its financial results and those of
other PC makers. The payments were at issue in a private
antitrust lawsuit filed against Intel by chipmaker  Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. , a New York state probe of Intel’s business
practices, and a Federal Trade Commission lawsuit filed against
Intel in December. Dell, based in Round Rock, Texas, said on
June 10 that it had set aside $100 million for the settlement.  
 Dell’s former CEO,  Kevin Rollins , 57, and James Schneider,
57, the company’s former chief financial officer, agreed to pay
fines of $4 million and $3 million, respectively. Schneider was
suspended from appearing or practicing before the SEC as an
accountant for five years. The SEC, as urged by the company in
its settlement proposal, spared Michael Dell similar punishment.  
 ‘Too Important’  
 “We are pleased to have resolved this matter,” Michael
Dell said in a statement. “We are committed to maintaining
clear and accurate reporting of our periodic results, supporting
our customers, and executing our growth strategies.”  
 Calls to Michael Mann, an attorney for Rollins, and Neil
Eggleston, a lawyer for Schneider, weren’t returned.  
 “In similar cases, you’d expect the SEC to seek a bar
against a senior officer,” said  Peter Henning , a professor at
Wayne State University Law School. “He’s probably too important
to the company and it would have caused too much harm to
shareholders,” Henning said of Michael Dell.  
 In November 2009,  Kenneth Mueller , the former chief
financial officer of  SafeNet Inc. , was barred for five years
from serving as a director or officer in a public company over
SEC claims he was involved in improper accounting that helped
the company meet analysts’ earnings estimates in 2004 and 2005.  
 FTC Claims  
 The SEC last year sought a bar against  Beazer Homes ’ former
chief accounting officer for allegedly improperly recording
accounting reserves to meet analysts’ estimates.  
 Intel, which accounts for more than 80 percent of global
computer-processor sales, was sued by the FTC for using its
dominant market position to “stifle competition.” The firm’s
payments amounted to 10 percent of Dell’s operating income in
2003 and grew to 76 percent by 2007, the SEC said.  
 Without the payments, Dell would have missed the earnings-
per-share  consensus  in every quarter from fiscal years 2002
through 2006, the SEC said.  
 When Intel cut the payment by $263 million in the second
quarter of 2007, Schneider told analysts and investors the drop
in operating  earnings  had resulted from slowing demand and
higher-than-expected prices for components, according to the
SEC. His statements were included in a script circulated to
Michael Dell and others before an earnings conference call.  
 Cookie Jar Reserves  
 From 2002 to 2005, the company also used a variety of so-
called cookie jar reserves to meet earnings shortfalls, the SEC
said. Michael Dell and Rollins weren’t accused of participating
in that misconduct.  
 After the agency opened an  investigation  of Dell, the
company was forced to restate results, fire workers and change
its corporate governance policies.  
 “We’re relieved to see that the framework Dell had
outlined previously is coming to fruition,” said  Bill Kreher , a
senior technology analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who has a
“buy” rating on Dell shares.  
 “Any time you can put something like this behind you, it
removes the uncertainty,” said Kreher. The announcement is
unlikely to have a significant effect on Dell’s stock price, he
said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joshua Gallu  in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Ricadela  in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Michael Dell, chairman of Dell Inc. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Erik Schatzker reports on major newsmakers in today's Movers & Shakers. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
