-- Deripaska, Norinco Seek Mining, Auto Projects as China, Russia Ties Warm
-- Hwee Ann Tan
-- 2010-07-22T10:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/deripaska-norinco-seek-mining-auto-projects-as-china-russia-ties-warm.html

          
          
             Russian billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ,
the biggest shareholder of  United Co. Rusal , agreed with China
North Industries Corp. to jointly develop mine and auto assets
as the countries seek to cement expanding business ties.  
 The two sides will consider developing exploration assets
of  Strikeforce Mining & Resources Ltd. , a ferromolybdenum miner
in Russia, Deripaska’s EN+ Group said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Norinco , as the Chinese company is known, will also study
working with Deripaska’s Russian Machines Corp. to make autos.  
 “The cooperation fully reflects the strategic partnership
of the two countries,” Norinco President  Zhao Gang  said.  
 Deripaska is betting on warming ties between Russia and
China to raise capital for his companies and find partners for
his insurance, energy, metals and auto businesses. EN+ unit SMR
Ltd. sought to become Russia’s second company to list in Hong
Kong after Rusal raised $2.24 billion in January. The mine
operator delayed the offering, blaming market turbulence, a
person with knowledge of the decision said on May 8.  
 Deripaska’s OAO GAZ, Russia’s second-largest automaker, may
begin sales of the Gazelle light commercial vehicle in China,
 Andrei Elinson , the billionaire’s deputy at the Basic Element
holding company, said on Jan. 30. Military Industrial Co., also
controlled by Deripaska, already supplies the Tiger armored
military carrier to the Chinese army and police, Elinson said.  
 Partnerships with Chinese insurance companies, automakers
and pulp producers may follow, he said at the time.  
 Norinco became Rusal’s biggest Chinese client last year by
agreeing to buy 1.68 million metric tons of aluminum from the
Moscow-based producer through 2016. Rusal expects China to make
up a 10th of sales by 2015 from less than 5 percent last year.  
 Norinco makes  products for the defense industry  such as
anti-aircraft and anti-missile systems, as well as equipment for
oil and natural resource companies, according to its website.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Yuriy Humber  in Moscow at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Hwee Ann Tan  at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        