-- Deutsche Bank Sells $15 Million of Notes Tied to La Caixa Default Swaps
-- Sarfraz Thind
-- 2010-07-22T10:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/deutsche-bank-sells-15-million-of-notes-tied-to-la-caixa-default-swaps.html

          
          
             Deutsche Bank AG is selling 15
million euros ($19 million) of credit-linked notes based on the
creditworthiness of La Caixa, Spain’s biggest savings bank.  
 The five-year notes use credit-default swaps to link to the
performance of Barcelona-based La Caixa’s debt. Investors get
income generated from the swaps in exchange for taking on the
risk of losses on their principal if the lender defaults during
the life of the securities.  
 The notes pay annual interest of 2 percentage points more
than the three-month euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor,
with a minimum coupon of 4.5 percent, according to the term
sheet. The securities will be issued July 28.  
 The cost of insuring Spanish bank debt against default
surged this year as bondholders speculated the country wouldn’t
be able to cut its deficit without hurting the economy.
Credit-default swaps on La Caixa’s subordinated debt have more
than doubled to 340 basis points this year, according to data
provider CMA.  
 The notes are priced at 100 percent of face value and sold
mainly to institutional investors in Spain, according to  Michael Daub , a credit-linked note trader at Deutsche Bank who worked on
the deal. Three-month Euribor, an average of rates set daily by
banks and used as a borrowing benchmark, is 0.881 percent.  
 Credit-default swaps are used to speculate on or hedge
against a company’s ability to repay debt. An increase indicates
deterioration in the perception of credit quality. A basis point
on a contract protecting 10 million euros ($12.8 million) of
debt from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a
year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarfraz Thind  in London at 
 Sthind3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        