-- Euro Gains Against Dollar as Manufacturing, Services Accelerate in July
-- Catarina Saraiva
-- 2010-07-22T20:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/dollar-drops-on-concern-recovery-may-stall-euro-rallies-on-economic-data.html

          
          
             The euro strengthened for the first
time in three days versus the dollar and gained against the yen
after a report showed Europe’s manufacturing and services
industry unexpectedly accelerated in July.  
 The dollar erased its loss against the Japanese currency
after a report showed sales of U.S. previously owned homes fell
less than forecast last month. The Dollar Index, which tracks
the currency against those of six trading partners, snapped a
three-day advance as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
reiterated that the economic outlook remains “unusually
uncertain.”  
 “There were some positive signals on the economic data
front from the euro zone pointing out that the economic recovery
is very much on track in Europe,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a
currency strategist at Wells Fargo & Co. in New York. “There’s
a pickup in global risk appetite.”  
 The euro rose 1.1 percent to $1.2891 at 4:19 p.m. in New
York, from $1.2754 yesterday. One euro bought 112.06 yen,
compared with 111.02 yesterday, after it fell earlier to 110.02,
the weakest level since July 7. The dollar was little changed at
86.93 yen after earlier dropping to 86.34 yen.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index climbed 2.3 percent and the
 Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index  of raw materials added 2 percent.
The euro gained against 11 of its 16 most-traded counterparts.
The New Zealand dollar strengthened 0.6 percent against the
shared currency and the Australian dollar was up 0.6 percent.  
 U.S., European Data  
 A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area
purchasing managers in both industries increased to 56.7 from 56
in June, London-based  Markit Economics  said today. Economists
had projected a drop to 55.5, the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. A gauge of German manufacturing also
unexpectedly gained this month.  
 “Much of the move in the overnight comes on the heels of
the data that was seen in the European zone,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada
in Toronto. “It comes down to markets reacting positively to
the data.”  
 Existing U.S. home sales fell 5.1 percent in June, the
National Association of Realtors reported. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast a drop of 9.9 percent.  
 The euro has rallied 5.3 percent against the dollar in
July, after dropping for seven straight months, ahead of
tomorrow’s release of the result of stress test on the region’s
banking sector.  
 Stress Tests  
 European Union regulators are examining the strength of 91
banks to determine if they can survive potential losses from
both a recession and a decline in the value of government debt.
The lenders must disclose their gross and net exposure to
central and local governments in 30 countries in the region,
including Greece, Spain, Ireland, Italy and Portugal, according
to a confidential draft template obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 Investors should sell the euro against the dollar ahead of
the release of the stress tests, targeting a “dip” to $1.26,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  
 “People wouldn’t want to go long on the euro into the
stress tests,”  Paul Robson , a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at RBS, said today in a telephone interview from
London. “This isn’t going to be a defining moment of the euro-
area crisis. We are in the slow burn.” A long position is a bet
a currency will gain.  
 Dollar Index Falls  
 The  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback against the
euro, yen, pound, Canadian dollar, Swiss franc and Swedish
krona, fell 1 percent to 82.604. Policy makers are prepared to
act as needed to aid growth, Bernanke said yesterday to the
Senate Banking Committee and reiterated today to the House
Financial Services Committee.  
 “U.S. economic data in the past couple weeks have been
very much on the weak side and there’s been some talk with
regards to whether the Fed would consider adding monetary
stimulus,” said  Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at
Barclays Plc in New York. “That Bernanke gave no indication
that the Fed is considering further loosening was disappointing
to the markets.”  
 Futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange show a 51
percent chance the Fed will keep its benchmark rate between zero
and 0.25 percent through its March 2011 meeting, up from a 44
percent probability a month earlier.  
 The yen’s gains may be limited after Japanese officials
repeated concern about a rise in the currency that risks damping
exports, the nation’s main source of economic recovery.  
 ‘Avoid Excessive Gains’  
 “We want to avoid excessive gains in the yen,” Vice
Finance Minister Motoshisa Ikeda told reporters in Tokyo today,
referring to the growth strategy released last month.  
 “The strong yen is not desirable for a country that is
struggling to escape deflation,”  Marc Chandler , global head of
currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New York,
wrote in a note to clients. “But the market has been very
orderly and intervention is not a tool that can be deployed
simply because an official does not like the price action.”  
 Europe’s shared currency has declined 8.2 percent this
year, the biggest loss among its developed-world counterparts,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indices. The dollar
has gained 3.2 percent, and the yen has advanced 11 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        