-- Dubai World Begins to Present $23.5 Billion Restructuring Plan to 70 Banks
-- Camilla Hall
-- 2010-07-22T08:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/dubai-world-begins-to-present-23-5-billion-restructuring-plan-to-70-banks.html

          
          
             Dubai World, the state-owned company
seeking to renegotiate the terms on $23.5 billion of debt, began
presenting its debt restructuring plan to about 70 banks today.  
 Dubai World is making presentations at the Atlantis hotel
in Dubai after a group of its seven biggest lenders said May 20
they agreed to its broad terms. Bankers from  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , Bank of Baroda, Mashreqbank PSC, ICICI Bank
Ltd., Morgan Stanley, Arab Bank, National Bank of Oman and Union
National Bank were seen arriving for the meeting.  
 “We have to wait and hope for the best,” Mohamed Zein,
senior vice president and head of corporate banking at Union
National Bank, said before he entered the conference hall. He
said he was “optimistic’” about the meeting.  
 Dubai World, the holding company whose real-estate unit
Nakheel PJSC wis building palm-shaped islands off the
emirate’s coast, and its main creditor banks agreed in May to
alter the terms on $14.4 billion of bank loans and $8.9 billion
of government liabilities to resolve a crisis that roiled global
markets last year. It said banks would be paid $4.4 billion in
five years and another $10 billion over eight years at below-
market interest rates supported by assets sales.  
 In the May 20 proposal, Dubai World offered banks various
combinations of interest rates and principal repayment options
depending on whether they lent in dollars or dirhams. Banks will
be paid 1 percent interest on the loans maturing in five years.
Lenders have three options under the eight-year maturities, with
at least 1 percent interest over the life of the loan and
varying additional rates from 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent at
maturity. Two of these options also have shortfall guarantees.  
 Tribunal  
 A special court set up by the Dubai government in December
to oversee the financial restructuring of Dubai World can
enforce the agreement if the proposal received the support of
banks representing more than two thirds of the value of
outstanding loans.  
 Dubai and its state-owned companies have racked up $109.3
billion of debt, according to  International Monetary Fund 
estimates, as the emirate transformed itself into a tourism,
trade and financial services hub. About $15.5 billion of that is
due this year, the IMF said.  
 Dubai World’s bank coordination committee, which negotiated
with the company on behalf of the other lenders, represents
about 60 percent of its bank loans, it said in May. The
committee comprises  Emirates NBD PJSC  and Abu Dhabi Commercial
Bank PJSC from the United Arab Emirates and foreign lenders,
RBS,  HSBC Holdings Plc , Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Standard
Chartered Plc and  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd .  
 Nakheel, which held a separate meeting with its lenders
July 14, said a group of its creditors negotiating on behalf of
banks “unanimously supported” a proposal on altering the terms
on $10.5 billion of loans and unpaid bills. Nakheel expects to
complete the restricting over the “coming months,” it said.  
 Nakheel plans to offer creditor banks an interest rate of 4
percentage points more than benchmark rates on new loans as part
of the debt restructuring, two bankers with knowledge of the
plan said July 13. In return, lenders would agree to extend the
life of the loans by five years, they said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Camilla Hall  in Abu Dhabi at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        