-- Dubai World Sees $23.5 Billion Restructuring in Months After Bank Meeting
-- Ayesha Daya
-- 2010-07-22T18:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/dubai-world-expects-to-finish-23-5-billion-restructuring-over-next-months.html

          
          
             Dubai World, the state-owned company
seeking to renegotiate the terms on $23.5 billion of debt, said
it expects to complete the restructuring process in the “coming
months” after a meeting with its creditors in the emirate
today.  
 “As is customary at this stage of the process, this was an
informational session and no resolution was sought in the
meeting,” Dubai World said in an e-mailed statement. “Creditor
banks will now have the opportunity to review the information
provided before responding to the proposal. The company expects
to complete the restructuring over the coming months.”  
 Dubai World made the presentation to about 70 banks at the
Atlantis hotel after a group of its seven biggest lenders said
May 20 they agreed to its broad terms. The terms accepted by the
main banks were unchanged when presented to other creditors
today, two people who attended the presentation said.  
 Dubai World, the holding company whose real-estate unit
Nakheel PJSC is building palm-shaped islands off the emirate’s
coast, and its main creditor banks agreed in May to alter the
terms on $14.4 billion of bank loans and $8.9 billion of
government liabilities to resolve a crisis that roiled global
markets last year. It said banks would be paid $4.4 billion in
five years and another $10 billion over eight years at below-
market interest rates supported by assets sales.  
 Asset Sales  
 Dubai World presented forecasts of cash flows for the group
today and said it will sell assets if operating cash flows are
insufficient to repay debt, a banker who attended the
presentation said. It didn’t reveal which assets it would sell
when, and said that decision would depend on when each asset’s
price recovers and by how much, the banker said, declining to be
identified because the discussion was private.  
 Dubai World and its consultants, including Chief
Restructuring Officer  Aidan Birkett  as well as the bank
coordination committee, said in their presentations that the
debt restructuring plan outlined on May 20 was the best option
available for banks to ensure loan repayments, said the banker.  
 A Dubai World spokesman declined to comment.  
 Dubai World controls  DP World Ltd.,  the world’s fourth-
biggest port operator, private equity firm Istithmar World PJSC,
and Economic Zones World, an operator of business parks such as
Jebel Ali Free Zone. Istithmar bought New York luxury retailer
Barneys in 2007 for $942.3 million, while Dubai World acquired a
$5.1 billion stake in U.S. casino company  MGM Mirage  in 2008.  
 Interest Rates  
 In the May 20 proposal, Dubai World offered banks various
combinations of interest rates and principal repayment options
depending on whether they lent in dollars or dirhams. Banks will
be paid 1 percent interest on the loans maturing in five years.
Lenders have three options under the eight-year maturities, with
at least 1 percent interest over the life of the loan and
varying additional rates from 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent at
maturity. Two of these options also have shortfall guarantees.  
 “We don’t like it -- the pricing is low,” said Suresh T.
Vaidyanathan, head of operations at Bahrain-based Alubaf Arab
International Bank BSC. “They said you take it as it is,
otherwise we will go to liquidation. They made a presentation on
cash flows. There is excess cash and there will be a big payment
in kind” after eight years when the loan matures, he said.  
 A special court set up by the Dubai government in December
to oversee the financial restructuring of Dubai World can
enforce the agreement if the proposal receives the support of
banks representing more than two thirds of the value of loans.  
 Dubai’s Debt  
 Dubai and its state-owned companies have racked up $109.3
billion of debt, according to  International Monetary Fund 
estimates, as the emirate transformed itself into a tourism,
trade and financial services hub to diversify its economy. About
$15.5 billion of that is due this year, the IMF said.  
 Dubai World’s bank coordination committee, which negotiated
with the company on behalf of the other lenders, represents
about 60 percent of its bank loans, it said in May. The
committee comprises local lenders  Emirates NBD PJSC  and Abu
Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC and foreign lenders,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc , Lloyds Banking Group Plc,
Standard Chartered Plc and  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd .  
 Nakheel, which held a separate meeting with its lenders
July 14, said a group of its creditors negotiating on behalf of
banks “unanimously supported” a proposal on altering the terms
on $10.5 billion of loans and unpaid bills. Nakheel expects to
complete the restricting over the “coming months,” it said.  
 Nakheel plans to offer creditor banks an interest rate of 4
percentage points more than benchmark rates on new loans as part
of the debt restructuring, two bankers with knowledge of the
plan said July 13. In return, lenders would agree to extend the
life of the loans by five years, they said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Arif Sharif  in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net 
 Ayesha Daya  at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        