-- Dutch Queen Calls in Lubbers to Explore Coalition After Talks Fail Again
-- Jurjen van de Pol
-- 2010-07-22T12:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/dutch-queen-calls-in-lubbers-to-explore-coalition-after-talks-fail-again.html

          
          
             Queen Beatrix  asked  Ruud Lubbers , a
three-time prime minister, to meet political leaders and report
back quickly on how a new Dutch government can be formed, after
five weeks of inconclusive coalition talks.  
 “I will meet all party leaders” to “discuss thoroughly”
the possibilities of forming a Cabinet backed by a majority in
parliament, Lubbers told reporters in The Hague today.  
 Queen Beatrix met Lubbers late last night after a second
round of talks on a four-party coalition collapsed, with the
Liberal and Labor parties split over the extent of budget cuts.
Lubbers said he won’t seek to renew talks on that grouping,
which also included the D66 and Green Left parties.  
 Lubbers, 71, who first became Christian Democrat prime
minister in 1982, is meeting party leaders today and tomorrow.
He said the Netherlands needs a majority government urgently.  
 “I get the feeling lots of Dutch people don’t really
understand what exactly has happened,” Lubbers said. “Has
everyone really been involved in careful talks?”  
 A first round of talks on forming a government made up of
the Liberal Party, the Christian Democrats and the anti-
immigration Freedom Party led by  Geert Wilders  yielded no result
last month. That option would have had the smallest possible
majority, with 76 of the 150 seats in parliament, compared with
81 for the four-party coalition.  
 Freedom Party  
 Mark Rutte , whose Liberals won the most seats in last
month’s general elections, told Lubbers today he would still
prefer a coalition with Wilders and the Christian Democrats, the
ANP news agency reported. The Christian Democrats, led by
outgoing Prime Minister  Jan Peter Balkenende , were the biggest
losers in the June 9 vote.  
 That’s a change of tack from Rutte’s statements immediately
after the collapse of the negotiations with Labor, D66 and Green
Left, when the Liberal leader said he would like to explore the
possibility of a “center Cabinet” with Labor and the Christian
Democrats.  
 While such a coalition would have a majority in parliament
with 82 seats, it might founder on opposition from Labor leader
 Job Cohen , who rejects Rutte’s call for an 18 billion-euro ($23
billion) cut in the government budget.  
 Austerity measures are the most important issue on the
agenda of the political leaders, with the Netherlands, the
fifth-largest economy in the euro region, needing to narrow its
deficit from a forecast 6.3 percent of gross domestic product
this year to 3 percent by 2013 to meet European Union rules.  
 It’s taken an average of almost three months to set up a
coalition in the Netherlands since World War II.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jurjen van de Pol  in Amsterdam 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “I will meet all party leaders” to “discuss thoroughly” the possibilities of forming a Cabinet backed by a majority in parliament, Lubbers told reporters in The Hague. Photographer: Goh Seng Chong/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
