-- Eastern Europe's Economic Growth Faces Risk From Euro Region, EBRD Says
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-07-22T16:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/eastern-europe-s-economic-growth-faces-risk-from-euro-region-ebrd-says.html

          
          
             The European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development lowered its forecast for growth in the economies
of east Europe and Central Asia, citing increased risks from
budget cuts and volatile financial markets in the euro region.  
 The EBRD reduced its 2010 economic growth forecast for the
30 countries in which it invests to an average of 3.5 percent
from the 3.7 percent predicted in May, the London-based bank
said in an e-mailed statement. The bank lowered its prediction
for next year to 3.9 percent from 4 percent.  
 The former communist countries in Europe and Central Asia
are recovering from their deepest recessions since switching to
free-market policies two decades ago. The outlook for recovery
has been clouded by slowing growth in the euro area, the largest
export market for most of eastern Europe, as it grapples with a
sovereign-debt crisis and investors shun riskier assets.  
 “The outlook for the remainder of 2010 and for 2011 is
generally weaker than recent economic activity suggests,” the
EBRD said. “Given the weakening outlook for the euro zone, as
fiscal-austerity programs are implemented and financial markets
are likely to remain volatile, the external environment is
likely to be less benign than previously projected.”  
 The EBRD helped limit the impact of the financial crisis in
eastern Europe by persuading banks such as Italy’s  UniCredit
SpA , France’s  Societe Generale SA  and Austria’s  Erste Bank AG  to
remain in the region and providing them with funds to lend to
businesses. It has warned that the worst isn’t over for the
banking industry, which will slow the expansion of credit.  
 Credit Growth  
 “Banks’ balance sheets remain under pressure and the cost
of capital elevated” so “credit growth is likely to remain
weak,” the EBRD said in the report.  
 European Union regulators are examining 91 banks to
determine whether they can survive potential losses from a
recession and a decline in the value of their government bond
holdings. They are using the stress tests to reassure investors
about the health of financial institutions after the bloc’s debt
crisis dragged down the bonds of Greece, Spain and Portugal.  
 Results will be published tomorrow in Brussels.  
 The laggards of the EBRD region are Balkan countries such
as Bulgaria and Romania, where economies remain in recession,
financial systems are under pressure from Greece’s debt crisis
and capital inflows are declining. Austerity programs throughout
the European Union are also weighing on central Europe and the
Baltic states, the EBRD said.  
 Bulgaria’s economy will contract 1.2 percent this year and
expand 2.5 percent next year, the EBRD estimated. Romania’s
economy will shrink 3 percent this year and stagnate next year,
according to the bank.  
 Cutting Deficits  
 Greece is relying on a 110 billion-euro emergency-loan
package after the country’s budget deficit ballooned to 13.6
percent of gross domestic product last year, more than four
times the EU’s 3 percent limit.  
 German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  have pressed governments to trim
their budget deficits, saying such action would boost economic
growth by improving the confidence of consumers and investors.  
 The recent breakdown it talks between Hungary, the 
International Monetary Fund  and EU “will damp growth in the
country and beyond,” the EBRD said. The bank estimated
Hungary’s growth at 1.2 percent this year and 2.1 percent next.  
 The IMF and EU on July 17 suspended talks with Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government on a review of the 20 billion
euro ($26 billion) loan after failing to agree on fiscal
targets.  
 Russia, Turkey  
 Russia and Turkey remain some of the fastest growing
countries in the EBRD region, with growth forecasts of 4.4
percent and 5.9 percent for next year, according to the bank.
Slovakia, whose car factories produce about 800,000 vehicles a
year, will expand the most in Central Europe, growing 3.1
percent this year and 3.4 percent next, the EBRD said.  
 Poland, the largest of the EU’s eastern members, will grow
2.7 percent in 2010 and 3.3 percent in 2011, according to the
bank. Given that government debt is approaching the 55 percent
legal limit and the budget deficit remains at about 7 percent of
GDP, Poland needs to take further steps to cut the shortfall,
the EBRD said.  
 The bank, owned by 61 countries and two intergovernmental
institutions, was created in 1991 to invest in former communist
countries from the Balkans to Asia to help them transform their
economies.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        