-- Eastern European Unemployment Rates Weigh on Recovery, World Bank Says
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-07-22T11:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/eastern-european-unemployment-rates-weigh-on-recovery-world-bank-says.html

          
          
             The 10 eastern members of the
European Union, recovering from the deepest recession since they
shed communism two decades ago, will remain beset by high
unemployment, the  World Bank  said.  
 Jobless rates in the region climbed to about 10 percent in
May, led by the three Baltic countries and Slovakia, from an
average 6.5 percent in June 2008, the World Bank said in a
report today. The number of people out of work rose to 4.7
million from 3 million in the period as the global crisis froze
credit and stalled investment, the lender said.  
 “The crisis made it much harder for workers who lose their
job to return to employment,” said Kaspar Richter, the bank’s
senior economist for Europe and Central Asia, in the report.
“With the number of unemployed rising and the number of job
vacancies falling, the competition for jobs has significantly
increased across the 10 countries.”  
 Unemployment will only start falling next year, the World
Bank said, as companies delay hiring until the recovery takes a
firmer footing and banks remain cautious about extending credit.
Joblessness is on the increase as governments tighten spending,
the euro region remains mired in a fiscal crisis and investors
shun the assets of countries with high sovereign debt.  
 The euro region’s crisis “casts a shadow over future
growth prospects” in the eastern EU members, the report said.  
 Employment Boost  
 The EU’s eastern members should focus on boosting
employment among the elderly and women and should raise the
retirement age, Richter said at a news conference in Warsaw.
They should also create more skilled jobs, which have been more
resilient to job erosion during the crisis, he said.  
 “The skill issue is going to be an important one going
forward,” Richter said. “Up until the crisis we knew there was
a skill shortage in these countries; the crisis hasn’t changed
but re-emphasized it.”  
 Risk-averse investors are avoiding emerging European assets,
triggering declines in currencies and pushing up repayment costs
on mortgages and consumer loans denominated in foreign
currencies. Hungary’s forint and Romania’s leu are among the
world’s 10 worst performers this year.  
 Growth in the 10 eastern EU members will average 1.7
percent this year and 3.3 percent next year, the World Bank
forecasts, after their combined gross domestic product
contracted 3.6 percent last year. The prediction is higher than
the European Commission’s estimates of 1.5 percent and 3.1
percent growth respectively.  
 Car Production  
 Slovakia, whose car factories produce about 800,000
vehicles a year, will lead growth this year and next, followed
by Poland, which has 38 million inhabitants and is the largest
of the EU’s eastern members, as well as being the only EU member
to avoid a recession last year.  
 The Slovak economy will grow 3.7 percent this year and 4
percent next, while Poland’s output will expand 3 percent and
3.7 percent respectively, the report said.  
 The other eight countries are the Czech Republic, Slovenia,
Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria.  
 With the recovery still fragile and uneven, the region
needs to safeguard the stability of the banking system and lower
budget deficits and government debt, the World Bank said.  
 “In view of the large foreign ownership of the banking
system, the recent pressure on parts of the banking system in
western Europe has increased funding risks for” eastern Europe,
according to the report.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        