-- Emaar Returns to Second-Quarter Profit on Sales of Dubai Tower Apartments
-- Ross Larsen
-- 2010-07-22T14:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/emaar-returns-to-second-quarter-profit-on-sales-of-dubai-tower-apartments.html

          
          
             Emaar Properties PJSC , the builder
of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai, reported a second-quarter
profit after handing over properties to buyers.  
 Net income was 802 million dirhams ($218 million) compared
with a loss of 1.28 billion dirhams a year earlier, the Dubai-
based company said in a statement today. Sales increased 28
percent to 2.65 billion dirhams.  
 Emaar, which inaugurated the 200-story Burj Khalifa in
January, said it completed sales of about 24 percent of the
properties in the building by the end of June and opened a
 Giorgio Armani  branded hotel in the tower during the quarter.
The company is focusing on sources of revenue other than
property sales after Dubai real estate lost more than half of
its value since 2008.  
 “The market (including us) was building up to a possible
earnings beat, so there may be some disappointment when the
market reopens for trading,” Nomura analysts  Chet Riley  and
Sunrita Bhowmik said in a note to investors. They said profit
fell short of analysts’ estimates.  
 The analysts predicted that 35 percent of the Burj Khalifa
properties would have been passed to customers by now.  
 Emaar increased the share of revenue it gets from
residential and hospitality operations during the past year,
which helped results, Chairman  Mohamed Alabbar  said in the
statement. About 90 percent of Emaar’s revenue is generated in
Dubai, the second-largest sheikhdom in the United Arab Emirates.  
 New Focus  
 “We will remain committed to building new revenue sources
and realizing the full value of our assets by embracing change
and tapping growth opportunities,” he said.  
 Emaar sold the businesses of Hamptons International in the
U.K., continental Europe and Asia to London-based Countrywide
Plc, Britain’s biggest chain of real-estate brokers, for an
undisclosed price. The developer will retain Hamptons’ assets in
the Middle East and North Africa.  
 The company reported a year-earlier loss after incurring a
charge of 1.73 billion dirhams for John Laing Homes after it
filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in February.  
 Emaar has declined 13 percent in Dubai trading this year,
giving the company a market value of 20.5 billion dirhams.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zainab Fattah  in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        