-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline as Bernanke's Comments Fuel Growth Concern
-- Shiyin Chen
-- 2010-07-22T07:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/emerging-market-stocks-fall-as-bernanke-fuels-u-s-economic-growth-concern.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks fell for the
first time in three days after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that the U.S. economic outlook “remains
unusually uncertain.”  
 The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped 0.5 percent to
959.94 as of 3:08 p.m. in Singapore, after posting its biggest
rally in eight sessions yesterday. Currencies also weakened, led
by the Philippine peso and South Korea’s won.  
 Bernanke’s comments added to concern the global economic
recovery is losing steam, sending crude oil and metal prices
lower.  Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of chips,
flat screens and mobile phones, paced declines among exporters.
 OAO Lukoil  and Korea Zinc Co. retreated at least 0.5 percent,
tracking a slump in oil and metal prices.  
 “Until the time that clarity comes from U.S. and Europe,
emerging markets will remain under pressure,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at the New Delhi-based SMC
Capitals Ltd.  
 Bernanke said in his testimony to the Senate the Fed is
prepared “to take further policy actions as needed” to lift
growth in the U.S. Reports today are forecast to show initial
 jobless claims  increased and existing home sales dropped in the
world’s largest economy.  
 Citigroup Inc. in a report yesterday predicted emerging
markets may grow 6.6 percent this year and 5.8 percent in 2011,
0.2 and 0.1 percentage points lower than previously forecast.
China’s gross domestic product forecast was cut by a percentage
point to 9.5 percent in 2010 by Citigroup, who said the economy
began to show more signs of weakness at the end of last quarter.  
 Samsung, Infosys  
 In Brazil, the central bank signaled it may stop raising
interest rates soon after policy makers unexpectedly slowed the
pace of increases and said inflation was less of a threat amid
slowing global growth. The bank’s board yesterday increased the
benchmark interest rate half a point to 10.75 percent,
 surprising  48 out of 51 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who had
predicted a 0.75 percentage point increase.  
 Samsung lost 1.1 percent, snapping a two-day, 2.8 percent
gain.  Infosys Technologies Ltd. , India’s second-largest software
exporter, retreated 1.2 percent.  AU Optronics Corp. , Taiwan’s
second-largest flat panel maker, declined 1.4 percent.  
 Crude oil fell 0.4 percent to $76.25 a barrel in New York,
extending yesterday’s 1.1 percent decline. Copper slid as much
as 1.6 percent on the London Metal Exchange. Lukoil declined 0.6
percent. Korea Zinc retreated 2.2 percent after Morgan Stanley
cut the stock’s rating.  
 China Agri-Industries Holdings Ltd.,  a Hong Kong-listed
unit of China’s largest grain trader Cofco, slumped 6.3 percent
for the second-biggest decline on the MSCI index of developing
nations. The company sold the equivalent of about $200 million
of shares and $399 million of convertible bonds.  
 Angang, Vanke  
 Chinese stocks traded in Shanghai advanced, helping the
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index to its first four-day gain
since February.  Angang Steel Co.  and  China Vanke Co.  rallied
more than 2.6 percent each after brokerages upgraded the shares.  
 Angang Steel was upgraded by Standard Chartered Bank on a
possible fourth-quarter earnings recovery amid lower iron ore
prices. China Vanke was rated “buy” in new coverage by
Citigroup Inc. as the “restructured, refocused” company is
delivering “notably improved” growth momentum.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        