-- EU May Halt Reform of Guinea-Bissau's Military, Threatening Peace Efforts
-- Drew Hinshaw
-- 2010-07-22T11:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/eu-may-halt-program-to-reform-of-guinea-bissau-military-officials-say.html

          
          
             The European Union may halt its
program to reorganize Guinea-Bissau’s police and army, two EU
officials with knowledge of the plan said, jeopardizing regional
peace efforts and plans to fight drug trafficking.  
 EU administrators plan to end the program because of
resistance from leaders in Guinea-Bissau’s defense forces, said
the officials. Both asked not to be identified because the
decision to end the program is yet to be announced.  
 Guinea-Bissau’s military has regularly intervened in the
politics of the west African nation since it won independence
from Portugal in 1973. Last year soldiers assassinated President
 Joao Bernardo Vieira . The country has gone through three
presidents and three prime ministers in the past two years.
Braima Sisse, a spokesman at Guinea-Bissau’s Ministry of
Information, declined to comment when called.  
 “Inevitably, failed security sector reforms would have
regional repercussions, with refugees and destabilization,”
said Paulo Gorjão, director of the  Portuguese Institute of
International Relations and Security , said in an interview from
Lisbon. “The surrounding countries will have a renewed source
of instability and violence.”  
 Military Influence  
 “The decision would need to be taken quite soon,” Maja
Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for Catherine Ashton, the EU foreign
policy chief, said from Brussels. A decision is likely to be
taken by the end of the month.  
 The EU program, which began in 2008 alongside similar
programs by U.S. and the United Nations, targeted a reduction in
the cost, political influence and number of troops in the
nation’s military. On April 1 military staff under the command
of General Antonio Indjai mutinied and temporarily kidnapped
Prime Minister Carlos Gomes Junior to protest the proposed
reforms.  
 On June 29, Indjai became chief of Defense, prompting the
U.S. to halt its military aid to the country, according to an e-
mailed statement.  
 Guinea-Bissau’s military reforms are collapsing as
neighboring Guinea’s military government is set to abdicate
power to a democratically elected president for the first time
since independence in 1958. In Senegal the army is opening
negotiations with separatists fighting for the independence of
Casamance, a province neighboring Guinea-Bissau.  
 ‘Power Plays’  
 There is a “possibility of power plays in the Guinea-
Bissau military playing out inside regional neighbors,” Gorjão
said. “That wouldn’t be the first time that internal turmoil
lead to some sort of military adventures in neighboring
countries, especially regarding the Casamance.”  
 In 2006, Voice of America reported that Guinea-Bissau’s
government was providing guns, rocket launchers, and troops to
one of two rebel factions vying for control of the Casamance
secessionist movement. The Guinea-Bissau government denied the
allegations.  
 The withdrawal by the EU could also threaten international
efforts to curb the growing activity of drug smuggling groups in
West Africa, said  Knox Chitiyo , Head of the Africa Program at
London-based research group  Royal United Service Institute .  
 Guinea-Bissau, a West African nation of 1.7 million people
that relies on cashew nuts for export earnings and is in talks
to have its external debt canceled, is a key transit
point for trafficking of cocaine between South America and
Europe. Several hundred kilograms of the narcotic pass through
the country each week, according to the  United Nations Office on
Drugs and Crime .  
 Drug Trade  
 High-ranking military leaders have facilitated the trade,
moving shipments by land, sea, and air, according to an April
statement from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, which
imposed sanctions on two military leaders.  
 “Now you’re going to have minimal security sector reforms,
and a burgeoning drug problem,” Chitiyo said.  
 While the EU officials say a five-year, $156 million
humanitarian aid commitment from the trading bloc won’t be
affected by the end of the military program, the EU could
consider altering aid agreements and may also place trade
restrictions on the country.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Drew Hinshaw  in Dakar at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        