-- EU Stress Tests Will Improve Transparency, Credit Suisse Chief Dougan Says
-- Francine Lacqua
-- 2010-07-22T14:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/eu-stress-tests-will-improve-transparency-credit-suisse-chief-dougan-says.html

          
          
             The European Union’s stress tests
for the region’s banks will improve transparency, though it’s
not clear whether they will be enough to calm markets, Credit
Suisse Group AG Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said.  
 “Transparency is constructive, so it will hopefully be a
positive step forward,” Dougan said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television today. “Whether the markets ultimately
believe that that’s sort of the Holy Grail in terms of
transparency I don’t know.”  
 Credit Suisse  said earlier today that had it been subjected
to stress tests similar to the one conducted on EU banks, its
tier 1 capital ratio would still be “clearly above” the 12.5
percent it targets. This ratio stood at 16.3 percent at the end
of June, the Zurich-based bank said.  
 The Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority is
considering publishing stress-test results for the country’s
banks to coincide with the disclosure tomorrow by the Committee
of European Banking Supervisors of its finding on 91 EU banks.  
 The EU banks are being tested on whether they can withstand
a shrinking economy and drop in the value of government bonds.
The lenders are required to have a tier 1 capital ratio of at
least 6 percent in 2011 under the stress scenario.  
 The Swiss regulator conducts regular stress tests on its
banks, which are “twice as stringent” as the current EU test,
Dougan said. The Swiss test accumulates 13 different stress
situations for banks, such as a crash in the emerging markets or
in stocks, or widening bond spreads, according to Credit Suisse.  
 Capital, Liquidity  
 Stress tests are not the only area where the Swiss
regulator is applying stricter requirements. It has already
introduced more stringent requirements for capital and liquidity
management for Credit Suisse and UBS AG, including proposals
that are still under debate by the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision.  
 “The regulator, as well as the industry in Switzerland has
moved pretty rapidly in terms of capital, leverage, liquidity
ratios,” Dougan said. “That has been helpful in terms of
creating a safer and sounder financial system here in
Switzerland. I do think that in the longer run, there needs to
be some kind of reference to the global regulatory landscape.”  
 Credit Suisse shares were cut to a “hold” rating from
“buy” last week by  analysts  at Societe Generale SA, who said
the bank’s need to maintain excess capital may be a “handicap”
as the Group of 20 moves toward increased flexibility over the
rules and implementation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Credit Suisse AG CEO Brady Dougan gestures during the company's annual results press conference in Zurich. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
