-- European Power Trading Rose to Record Volume Last Year Amid Price Plunge
-- Lars Paulsson
-- 2010-07-23T14:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/european-power-trading-rose-to-record-volume-last-year-amid-price-plunge.html

          
          
             Electricity trading in western
Europe’s seven biggest markets rose to a record for a fifth year
in 2009 as banks and utilities including Barclays Capital and
 E.ON AG  bought and sold amid a 40 percent drop in power prices.  
 Volumes in Germany, the Nordic region, Britain, France, the
Netherlands, Spain and Italy increased to 9,944 terawatt-hours
from 9,929 terawatt-hours in 2008, London-based consultant
 Prospex Research Ltd.  said in a report scheduled to be released
today. They have advanced 21 percent since 2005, the data show.  
 European power prices plummeted as the global economy
suffered its worst recession since World War II, damping demand.
The first slump in volumes since 2003 in the Nordic region,
which encompasses Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden, was
offset as traders bought and sold more in Germany and the U.K.  
 “The trading business had a reasonably good year,
considering the turmoil” in the world economy, Prospex Director
Ben Tait said in a telephone interview from London yesterday.
“A handful of the big banks have kept the market going because
of their strong relationships with industrial customers.”  
 Utilities including  Electricite de France SA  and  RWE AG 
trade with banks such as Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch, which
deal for industrial and financial clients and themselves.  
 Germany, E.ON  
 Volumes in Germany, Europe’s biggest power market, rose 5
percent last year, trading at a rate of about 8.4 times annual
consumption, Prospex said. German demand was about 515 terawatt-
hours in 2009. Prospex declined to specify volumes for
individual markets. E.ON, Germany’s biggest utility, boosted its
European power trading by 41 percent last year to 1,240
terawatt-hours, it said March 10.  
 The rise in liquidity during the economic decline was a
“good sign,”  Tom Sargent , director of power and emissions
trading at Dusseldorf-based E.ON, said in an e-mailed statement.
“This level of liquidity reflects the health of the wholesale
market and the fundamental nature of commodities.”  
 Trading in Britain and Italy rose by 19 percent and 18
percent respectively. Spanish volumes increased 5 percent and
the French market was unchanged last year, Prospex said. The
Nordic region fell 14 percent and the Netherlands slid 7
percent.  
 The amount of electricity changing hands in the Nordic
market was 6.7 times demand last year, down from 7.3 times
actual physical consumption a year earlier. In the U.K. market
3.3 times demand was traded, compared with 2.7 times in 2008.  
 Over-the-Counter  
 Trading outside organized exchanges, the so-called over-
the-counter market, last year regained volumes it lost in 2008.
It accounted for a total of 82 percent of trades, compared with
71 percent reported by Prospex in its 2008 survey.  
 Brokers including ICAP Plc, GFI Group Inc., Tullet Prebon
Plc, Spectron Group Ltd. and Tradition Financial Services
compete for over-the-counter trades.  
 Power contracts in continental Europe are starting to get
more complex, giving power stations, banks and electricity users
more options to “lock into” prices,  Sebastien Terryn , a risk
manager at Summit Energy Inc. in Waregem, Belgium, said by
telephone today. “An increase of financial institutions
activities, a higher volatility in markets and more complex
power contracts explain why trading volumes may be rising,” he
said in an e-mail.  
 Power prices have become more “volatile in the last five
years” so power producers and users need to better manage their
risk on how they buy and sell electricity, Terryn said. The
higher volatility follows higher price swings in U.K. natural
gas markets. Britain’s depleting North Sea gas supplies means
more gas must be imported through European pipelines and from
liquefied natural gas producers, he said.  
 The average annual power price slid by more than 40 percent
in Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and the U.K. last year,
Prospex said. The average day-ahead price for Germany on the
Epex Spot SE exchange in Paris fell 41 percent to 39 euros a
megawatt-hour, according to broker prices on Bloomberg.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lars Paulsson  in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        