-- European Stocks Rise for Third Day on Economy; Unibail, Vestas Lead Gains
-- Julie Cruz
-- 2010-07-22T16:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/european-stock-index-futures-fall-on-bernanke-comments-syngenta-may-move.html

          
          
             European stocks  climbed for a third
day as unexpected growth in the region’s manufacturing and
services industries and rising U.K. retail sales eased concern
that the economic recovery may be faltering.  
 Unibail-Rodamco SE led real-estate shares higher after
unveiling an investor-payout plan. Vestas Wind Systems A/S
rallied 3.8 percent as the world’s largest maker of wind
turbines won its biggest order for a single electricity-
generation site. Capita Group Plc surged the most in two months
after saying it aims to win more government contracts as the
U.K. trims costs.  
 The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 2.1 percent to 254.37 at
the 4:30 p.m. close of trading in London, as all 19 industry
groups advanced. The gauge has still retreated 6.5 percent from
this year’s high on April 15 amid concern that austerity
measures from indebted European governments will harm the
economic recovery.  
 “The PMI manufacturing data showed that we’re making some
progress, giving the market a bit of hope,” said  Markus Wallner , senior equity strategist at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “We don’t see any double dip in the future. The
Germany economy is leading the European economy forward.”  
 A composite index based on a  survey  of euro-area services
and manufacturing purchasing managers increased to 56.7 in July
from 56 last month, Markit Economics said today. Economists had
projected a drop to 55.5, according to a Bloomberg survey. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  
 Germany, U.K. Economies  
 A gauge of German manufacturing also unexpectedly gained
this month. U.K. retail sales rose more than economists forecast
in June as the World Cup soccer tournament stoked purchases at
electrical goods shops and department stores. In the U.S.,  sales
of previously owned homes  fell less than forecast last month,
according to the National Association of Realtors.  
 U.S. companies from United Parcel Service Inc. to
Caterpillar Inc. and AT&T Inc. raised their profit forecasts
today. More than 80 percent of  S&P 500  companies that have
reported results since July 12 have beaten analysts’ per-share
earnings estimates, Bloomberg data show.  
 National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European
markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100  rose 1.9 percent, Germany’s DAX
advanced 2.5 percent and France’s CAC 40 increased 3.1 percent.  
 Greece’s ASE Index jumped 2.7 percent as EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA and Alpha Bank SA, Greece’s second-biggest and
third-biggest lenders, soared more than 7 percent.  
 Unibail, Vestas  
 Unibail-Rodamco  surged 5.4 percent to 147.70 euros, pulling
a measure of real-estate shares 2.7 percent higher. Europe’s
largest publicly traded real-estate company announced a plan to
distribute 1.8 billion euros ($2.3 billion) to investors.  
 Vestas climbed 3.8 percent to 290.5 kroner. The Danish
company said it will supply 190 turbines of its V90-3.0 megawatt
model to Terra-Gen Power LLC’s Alta Wind Energy Center near
Tehachapi in California.  
 Capita rallied 3.8 percent to 737 pence, the biggest gain
since May 12. Chief Executive Officer  Paul Pindar  said the
company that provides a criminal records service for the U.K.
Home Office aims to win more public-sector contracts next year
as the government trims costs.  
 ABB Ltd. , the world’s largest builder of electricity
networks, advanced 4.2 percent to 20.48 Swiss francs. The
Zurich-based company forecast a recovery in demand in the power
business after reporting better-than-expected second-quarter
profit and rising orders.  
 Technip, Banks  
 Technip SA  jumped 7.4 percent to 52.07 euros after Europe’s
second-largest oilfield-services provider reported a growing
order backlog as it won contracts in Brazil and the North Sea.  
 European banking shares rose 3.2 percent for the second-
biggest group increase in the Stoxx 600 before European Union
regulators release the results of stress tests tomorrow.  
 The EU is examining the strength of 91 banks to determine
if they can survive potential losses from both a recession and a
decline in the value of their government-bond holdings.  Bank of
Ireland Plc  climbed 4.1 percent to 72.9 euro cents as a person
with direct knowledge of the matter said the bank is set to pass
the tests.  
 Dexia SA  surged 3.8 percent to 3.31 euros, while KBC Groep
NV rose 2.5 percent to 33.27 euros. The two banks will pass the
even under an adverse test scenario, ING Groep NV analysts said.  
 Swedbank AB rose 2.2 percent to 79.7 kronor. The largest
bank in the Baltic countries said all Nordic lenders should pass
the stress tests after it reported a second consecutive
quarterly profit.  
 Nokia Gains  
 Nokia Oyj , the world’s largest mobile-phone maker, rose 2.6
percent to 7.17 euros, the biggest gain since May 10. Chief
Executive Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo  said its new N8 handset
will “kick-start” its comeback as second-quarter profit
tumbled on competition from Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  
 Syngenta AG  slid 5.3 percent to 229.3 Swiss francs after
the world’s biggest maker of agriculture chemicals said first-
half net income declined 11 percent to $1.25 billion, falling
short of the $1.38 billion predicted by analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. The company abandoned a target for earnings growth this
year after burgeoning inventories of fungicides and crop-care
products in North America hurt pricing.  
 Autonomy Corp., the UK’s second-largest software company,
plunged 9.1 percent to 1,649 pence, the biggest drop since
November 2008. Second-quarter gross margins declined to 86
percent from 88 percent a year earlier, the company said.  
 ‘Failed to Grow’  
 “We estimate that after adjusting for one-offs, Autonomy
failed to grow its core business,” said  Paul Morland , an
analyst at KBC Peel Hunt. “Margins were well below
expectations.”  
 SSAB Svenskt Staal AB, the largest supplier of high-tensile
steel, slid 7.1 percent to 108.4 kronor after earnings missed
estimates. Second-quarter net income of 369 million kronor
($49.9 million), missing the 482 million-krona average estimate
in a survey compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Outokumpu Oyj  sank 6.3 percent to 12.86 euros after the
Finnish stainless-steel maker forecast “somewhat negative”
results in the third quarter.  
 BioMerieux SA  tumbled 9.4 percent to 81.28 euros, the
biggest decline since at least 2004. The maker of tests for HIV
and hepatitis cut its full-year sales growth target to 6 percent
from a previous forecast of around 7 percent. Oddo & Cie.
downgraded the stock to “reduce” from “add.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julie Cruz  in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about European bank stress tests, and his investment strategy for the region's stocks.
     European stocks climbed for a third day yesterday as unexpected growth in the region’s manufacturing and services industries and rising U.K. retail sales eased concern that the economic recovery may be faltering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
