-- Europe's Services, Manufacturing Growth Accelerates
-- Simone Meier
-- 2010-07-22T14:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/europe-services-manufacturing-unexpectedly-accelerate-as-outlook-improves.html

          
          
             Growth in Europe’s  services and
manufacturing   industries  unexpectedly accelerated in July as
concern over the sovereign-debt crisis eased and an increase in
global trade spurred exports.  
 A  composite index  based on a survey of euro-area
purchasing managers in both industries rose to 56.7 from 56 in
June, London-based  Markit Economics  said today. Economists had
projected a drop to 55.5, the median of 18 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey showed. European stocks advanced and the euro
rose against the dollar.  
 With global trade recovering, Daimler AG, the second-
largest luxury-car maker, raised its full-year profit forecast
this month and  Renault SA  said first-half car sales jumped 22
percent. As concerns over the  fiscal crisis  ease amid a drop in
risk premiums on southern European debt, the region’s next test
is the publication tomorrow of bank stress tests.  
 “It was surprisingly robust,” said  Klaus Baader , chief
euro-region economist at Societe Generale in London. “It looks
as if the second half won’t show as much cooling as expected.”  
 Other data also pointed to a stronger-than-expected
recovery. Euro-area  consumer confidence  improved more than
projected this month and industrial orders rose 3.8 percent in
May instead of the contraction economists had predicted, while
French business confidence increased more than forecast this
month, data showed today.  
 European Stocks  
 European stocks gained for a third day as the economic
reports assuaged concerns that the recovery may be faltering.
The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  advanced 1.9 percent to 253.92 at
3:26 p.m. in London, rebounding from an earlier drop of 0.4
percent.  The euro  rose 1.3 percent against the dollar to
$1.2919.  
 An  index of euro-area services , which account for about 60
percent of the region’s gross domestic product, rose to 56 in
July from 55.5 in the prior month, Markit said. A gauge of euro-
area  manufacturing  rose to 56.5 from 55.6 in June.  
 The extra yields investors demand to hold debt from Spain
and Portugal has eased from euro-era highs seen in May and June
when concerns about a Greek default caused contagion around the
southern euro region. European leaders in May pledged an
unprecedented 750 billion-euro ($966 billion) financial backstop
for countries struggling to raise funds, and sought deeper
budget cuts in return.  
 Next Hurdle  
 The next hurdle for the region is the publication of stress
tests on banks tomorrow. European regulators are testing 91
banks to examine whether they can withstand a shrinking economy
and a drop in government-bond values. Governments are counting
on the tests on firms including Madrid-based Banco Santander SA
and Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG  to reassure investors about
the strength of the financial system and the amount of state
support lenders may need.  
 The risk  premium  on Spanish debt traded at 174 basis points
today, compared with a euro-era closing record of 221 basis
points on June 16.  
 Today’s data may also show a divergence between economic
performance in Germany and in the so-called peripheral euro
region, said  Ralph Solveen , head of economic research at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. Germany’s services index surged to
57.3 from 54.8 in June.  
 The euro-area “increases are exclusively attributable to a
steep rise in Germany,” Solveen said in a note to clients.
“These numbers highlight the current split in economic activity
within the euro zone.”  
 High-Deficit Countries  
 That will be accentuated as high-deficit countries
including Greece and Spain implemented deeper budget cuts,
Societe Generale’s Baader said. Spain increased the value-added
tax in July, a month after cutting public workers’ wages an
average 5 percent and announcing a freeze on pensions.  
 That may make countries like Spain more dependent on
exports. The value of world trade surged 25 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter, according to the World Trade
Organization, underpinning the recovery as domestic demand
remains weak.  
 Still, exporters may struggle to shore up earnings over the
coming months as the global recovery shows signs of weakening
and the euro rebounds from a four-year low reached last month.
China’s economic expansion slowed in the second quarter and
 industrial production  cooled more than economists forecast in
June. In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, confidence among
consumers dropped in July to the lowest level in a year.  
 “The U.S. is, I think, in the early stages of what is a
very protracted sluggishness of domestic internal demand,” said
 Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s non-executive chairman for Asia,
in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  and  Ken Prewitt  on July 19.
“The dynamism that we’ve gotten hooked and accustomed to is
just not going to be” there.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Meier  in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloombert.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Europe's manufacturing growth accelerates  
                       
                         
                           Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg 
                         
                         An employee assembles a Daimler AG Mercedes-Benz V6 diesel engine on the production line at the company's factory in Berlin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     An employee assembles a Daimler AG Mercedes-Benz V6 diesel engine on the production line at the company's factory in Berlin. Photographer: Michele Tantussi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
