-- Everbright Bank to Sell Up to 6.1 Billion Shares in Shanghai
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-23T02:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/everbright-bank-to-sell-as-many-as-6-1-billion-shares-in-shanghai-offering.html

          
          
             China Everbright Bank Co.  plans
to sell as many as 6.1 billion shares in Shanghai in an
initial public offering that analysts estimate may raise as
much as 18 billion yuan ($2.7 billion).  
 The China Securities Regulatory Commission will review
the IPO on July 26, according to a  statement  posted on its
website yesterday. The regulator didn’t say how much the
Beijing-based company plans to raise.  
 Everbright Bank, which has been planning an IPO since
June 2008, reduced the offering by 30 percent after Chinese
stocks  slumped , Chairman  Tang Shuangning  said yesterday.
Slowing loan and economic growth led Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. to the smallest first-day gain among its major
rivals when the shares debuted in Shanghai July 15.  
 “We all know this is not an ideal market for the IPO,”
said  Tang Yayun , a Shanghai-based analyst at Northeast
Securities Co. “Everbright Bank just cannot afford to wait
any longer -- it needs capital for growth and to catch up
with listed rivals. If the bank misses this opportunity, you
never know when the next will become available.”  
 Agricultural Bank  raised $19.2 billion in Shanghai and
Hong Kong in the world’s largest first-time sale in almost
four years. Chinese companies raised 215.3 billion yuan from
IPOs in the first half, the highest this decade, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Second-Largest IPO  
 Northeast’s Tang estimates that Everbright Bank can sell
the shares at 2 times its book value of 1.44 yuan at the end
of 2009, or 18 billion yuan before an over-allotment option.
With that amount, the IPO would be the second-largest first-
time stock sale in China this year, trailing Agricultural
Bank and ahead of the 15.69 billion yuan raised by  Huatai
Securities Co.  in February, according to Bloomberg data.  
 Everbright Bank is China’s 11th-largest bank by assets.  
 China’s economic growth slowed to 10.3 percent in the
second quarter from 11.9 percent in the previous three months,
after the government succeeded in tempering credit expansion,
investment spending and property speculation.  
 The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index declined 22
percent this year. Chinese  stocks  rose for a fifth day today
on speculation slowing economic expansion will prompt the
government to relax property curbs and allow more bank
lending.  
 Everbright Bank is selling 15.4 percent of its enlarged
capital in the offering before over-allotment, according to
yesterday’s statement. The bank said in February 2008 that it
will sell between 10 percent and 20 percent of itself to the
public.  
 Moratorium Over  
 The bank hired China International Capital Corp.,
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. and China Jianyin Investment
Securities Co. to manage the deal.  
 Everbright Bank, with 482 outlets nationwide, first
submitted an application for listing in June 2008. The plan
was derailed by a 10-month moratorium on IPOs imposed by the
securities regulator three months later.  
 China’s banks are raising capital after extending a
 record  $1.4 trillion in loans last year to fuel an economic
recovery in the world’s third-largest economy and comply with
tighter requirements on financial buffers.  
 Chinese banks face rising credit risks and their non-
performing loan ratios are likely to climb as the nation’s
economy slows and lending for government projects comes due
for repayment, Standard & Poor’s said yesterday. The
industry’s non-performing loan ratio will rise from an
estimated 3 percent to 4 percent currently, though it will
remain below 10 percent by the end of 2012, S&P projects.  
 Net Income  
 Everbright Bank posted net income of 7.6 billion yuan in
2009, a 4 percent increase from a year earlier, according to
its  annual report . Its capital adequacy ratio stood at 10.39
percent as of Dec. 31 and its non-performing loan ratio was
1.25 percent.  
 The bank can expand the sale to as many as 7 billion
shares after exercising an over-allotment option, according
to yesterday’s statement.  
 Central Huijin Investment Co., which holds stakes in
China’s biggest financial institutions on behalf of central
government, owns 59.82 percent of Everbright Bank before the
IPO. Everbright Group and its Hong Kong-listed affiliate
China Everbright Ltd. hold a combined 11.66 percent of the
lender.  
 -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Eva Woo  in Beijing. Editors:
 Andreea Papuc ,  Joost Akkermans   
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        