-- Everbright Bank Aims to Sell as Many as 6.1 Billion Shares in Shanghai IPO
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-22T10:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/everbright-bank-aims-to-sell-as-many-as-6-1-billion-shares-in-shanghai-ipo.html

          
          
             China Everbright Bank Co.  plans to
sell as many as 6.1 billion shares in an initial public offering
in Shanghai in a sale the Wall Street Journal said may raise as
much as 20 billion yuan ($2.95 billion).  
 The China Securities Regulatory Commission will review the
IPO on July 26, according to a statement posted on the website
of the regulator today. The statement didn’t say how much the
Beijing-based company plans to raise.  
 Everbright Bank has prepared for a Shanghai IPO since 2008
after hiring China International Capital Corp., Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co. and China Jianyin Investment Securities Co. to
manage the deal. China’s 11th-largest bank by assets is selling
shares in a market where the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index
has dropped 22 percent this year.  
 “It’s hard to say whether it’s the best timing for the
bank to go for an IPO, and I guess a company can’t really choose
the best timing, there isn’t a best timing in this market,”
said  Liu Yinghua , an analyst at Pingan Securities Co. in
Shenzhen. “We’ve been hearing about their plan since last
year.”  
 The IPO comes after  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd.  raised
$19.2 billion in Shanghai and Hong Kong in the world’s largest
first-time sale in almost four years. Chinese companies raised
215.3 billion yuan from IPOs in the first half, the highest this
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Second Largest  
 At 20 billion yuan, Everbright Bank’s IPO would be the
second-largest first-time stock sale in China this year,
trailing Agricultural Bank and ahead of the 15.69 billion yuan
raised by  Huatai Securities Co . in February, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Chinese  stocks  rose for a fourth day today, posting their
longest stretch of gains since February, on speculation slowing
economic growth will prompt the government to relax property
curbs and allow more bank lending.  
 China Everbright aims to raise as much as 20 billion yuan
in the Shanghai IPO next month, the Journal said, citing an
unidentified person familiar with the matter. Lu Hong,
Everbright Bank’s board secretary, wasn’t immediately available
to comment on the report.  
 The lender plans to list in Hong Kong after its Shanghai
share sale, the newspaper said today. The bank has 482 outlets
nationwide.  
 China’s banks are raising capital after extending a  record 
$1.4 trillion in loans last year to fuel an economic recovery in
the world’s third-largest economy and comply with tighter
requirements on financial buffers.  
 Everbright Bank posted net income of 7.6 billion yuan in
2009, a 4 percent increase from a year earlier, according to its
 annual report . Its capital adequacy ratio stood at 10.39 percent
as of Dec. 31 and its non-performing loan ratio was 1.25 percent.  
 The bank can expand the sale to as many as 7 billion shares
after exercising an over-allotment option, according to today’s
statement.  
 -- Luo Jun , with assistance from  Eva Woo  in Beijing. Editors:
 Joost Akkermans , Andreea Papuc  
 To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at +8621-6104-7021 or
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        