-- Lexus Recalls Risk Ceding Decade-Long U.S. Lead to Mercedes
-- Alan Ohnsman
-- 2010-07-23T06:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/lexus-recalls-risk-ceding-brand-s-decade-long-u-s-dominance-to-mercedes.html

          
          
             After 10 years on top in the U.S.,
 Toyota Motor Corp. ’s Lexus risks relinquishing its best-seller
status among luxury brands to  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz.  
 The Lexus brand, a benchmark for quality in the 1990s and
2000s, has been marred by record recalls this year for flaws
across its lineup. Problems including fuel leaks, engines that
may stall and vehicles at risk of rolling over during emergency
driving maneuvers surfaced after Toyota had already recalled
more than 8 million vehicles under its main brand for defects
linked to unintended acceleration.  
 “It’s very likely Mercedes-Benz may take over the lead
this year,” said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry
trends for researcher Truecar.com in Santa Monica, California.
“The cumulative impact of all the recalls hasn’t really shown
up yet. It’s more likely to be seen in the second half.”  
 In the first half of this year, U.S. deliveries of the
Japanese brand grew 19 percent to 107,430, while Mercedes-Benz
jumped 25 percent to 106,972.  Lexus’s market share  may dip to
1.98 percent this year from 2.1 percent in 2009, falling behind
both Mercedes-Benz and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , according to
auto-industry researcher Edmunds.com.  
 “It will be a battle,”  Jim Lentz , president of Toyota’s
U.S. sales unit, said in an interview in Torrance, California.
“The Lexus customer is really discerning about quality
issues.”  
 Eiji Toyoda  
 Former Toyota President and Chairman  Eiji Toyoda , a member
of the automaker’s founding Toyoda family, spearheaded the
development of the Lexus brand, which was set up in the U.S. in
1989 to take on German luxury carmakers. Lexus has been the top-
selling luxury-car brand in the nation since 2000.  
 While BMW, the world’s top-selling luxury auto brand,
trails Lexus in the U.S., it’s still a contender with 100,632
units sold this year through June. Mercedes-Benz is the second-
biggest premium vehicle line globally.  
 “They’re really neck and neck” in the U.S., said  Jessica Caldwell , a senior analyst at Santa Monica, California-based
Edmunds.com. “There is a big opportunity there for the
Germans.”  
 Toyota rose 1.7 percent to close at 3,085 yen in Tokyo. The
shares have fallen 20 percent this year, compared with a 14
percent gain at Daimler and 32 percent surge at BMW.  
 Lexus’s U.S. sales growth dropped to 2.7 percent in June
while Mercedes-Benz posted a 25 percent gain and BMW delivered
15 percent more cars.  
 Lexus Recalls  
 The decline followed setbacks for Lexus that began in April
when Toyota recalled the GX 460 sport-utility vehicle after
Consumer Reports magazine rated it a “safety risk,” saying the
model was at risk of rolling over under certain conditions. The
magazine removed the designation on May 7.  
 In May, Toyota recalled and halted U.S. sales of model 2009
and early 2010 Lexus LS 460 and LS 600h L sedans for an “off-
center” steering-wheel condition.  
 In June, the carmaker briefly halted sales and said it
would recall hybrid HS 250h sedans to fix a fuel-system flaw
that could lead to gasoline leaking after a crash.  
 This month, Lexus recalled seven car models in the U.S.,
Japan and China for an engine defect that can lead to stalling.  
 Silke Mockert, a spokeswoman for Stuttgart, Germany-based
Daimler, said it’s difficult to measure if U.S. customers have
switched to Mercedes from Lexus as a result of the recalls.  
 “Building a strategy on short-term events in the market
isn’t possible,” she said.  
 BMW Line-Up  
 Markus Sagemann , a spokesman for Munich-based BMW, declined
to comment on whether the carmaker is benefiting from Lexus’s
woes. BMW sales are growing because “our model line-up is very
strong, and we’ll continue to boost it,” he said. “Globally,
we’ll have replaced 60 percent of our models by 2012.”  
 The German brands are also benefiting from a higher rate of
leasing among U.S. customers than Lexus, Truecar.com’s Toprak
said. More than 60 percent of Mercedes-Benz vehicles are leased,
compared with less than 30 percent of Lexus vehicles, he said.  
 Mercedes’s C-Class cars, the brand’s top-seller in the U.S.
and a competitor to the Lexus ES sedan, has been “particularly
well received” this year, said  Jim Hossack , an industry analyst
at researcher AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin, California.  
 Sales of its E-Class sedans, introduced last year, more
than doubled to 27,778 in the first half compared to a year
earlier. BMW this year revamped its 5 Series sedans, which
compete with Mercedes’s E-Class and the Lexus GS, as the
Japanese brand works to fix an engine flaw that’s affected its
model.  
 Discounts on Loans  
 All three brands are promoting discounts on loans and
leases this month, with Mercedes offering leases as low as $345
a month for a  $34,000 C300 sedan , BMW promoting a $639 a month
lease for its  $52,275 535i sedan , and Lexus setting a $449
monthly lease rate for its best-selling RX SUV that starts at
about $37,800.  
 Even with the recent recalls, harm to the Lexus brand may
have been limited, Edmunds.com’s Caldwell said. The month after
 Consumer Reports  warned customers not to buy the GX SUV, Lexus
sales surged 31 percent from a year earlier.  
 In the first half of 2009, Lexus appeared poised to fall
behind BMW in the U.S., with sales of 90,060 compared with BMW’s
93,563. Lexus ended the year with a 19,473-unit lead over BMW,
retaining its sales crown for the 10th straight year.  
 “I think Lexus can weather the quality issues more so even
than the Toyota side,” Toyota’s Lentz said.  
 Among Lexus vehicles sold in the U.S. affected by the
engine-stalling risk, Toyota has found only a 0.2 percent
failure rate, he said.  
 Recalls also haven’t deterred orders for the new  Lexus LFA ,
a V-10 engine supercar. The company has said it’s sold out of
all 500 units of the limited-production $375,000 sports coupe.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Makiko Kitamura  in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Ohnsman  in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Jim Lentz, president and chief operating officer of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., speaking in New York. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 16 (Bloomberg) -- Jim O'Donnell, president of Bayerische Motoren Werke AG's North American unit, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about sales of the automaker's new 5-Series in the U.S.
     O'Donnell also discusses BMW's overall sales, new plug-in car and special payment to employees. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
