-- Facebook Didn't Sign Contract Surrendering Ownership, CEO Zuckerberg Says
-- Douglas MacMillan
-- 2010-07-22T04:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/facebook-didn-t-sign-contract-surrendering-ownership-ceo-zuckerberg-says.html

          
          
             Facebook Inc., facing a lawsuit from
a New York man claiming an agreement entitles him to 84 percent
of the company, is “quite sure” it never signed such a
contract, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said.  
 Zuckerberg, speaking in a TV interview with ABC World News
yesterday, was responding to an earlier comment from Facebook
lawyer  Lisa Simpson , who told a judge the company was “unsure”
whether he had signed a contract. Paul Ceglia sued Facebook and
Zuckerberg in New York state court, claiming that an April 2003
agreement entitles him to ownership of most of the company.  
 “If we said that we were unsure, I think that was likely
taken out of context,” Zuckerberg said in the interview with
 Diane Sawyer . “Because I think we were quite sure that we did
not sign a contract that says that they have any right to
ownership over Facebook.”  
 Ceglia’s lawsuit challenges the provenance of the world’s
most popular social-networking site, estimated to be worth $24.6
billion by SharesPost.com, an online marketplace for closely
held companies. An earlier lawsuit by brothers Cameron and  Tyler Winklevoss , which claimed Zuckerberg used code developed for
their ConnectU startup, was settled in 2008.  
 Ceglia, a resident of Wellsville, New York, included in his
June 30 complaint a two-page “work for hire” contract, which
he claimed entitled him to control of the site.  
 Simpson’s Comment  
 His lawyer produced a copy of the document for U.S.
District Judge  Richard Arcara  this week at a hearing in federal
court in Buffalo, New York.  
 “Whether he signed this piece of paper, we’re unsure at
this moment,” Facebook attorney Simpson said in court.  
 Paul Argentieri, a lawyer for Ceglia, responded to
Zuckerberg’s comments yesterday.  
 “If he thinks he can go to court and give an answer like
that -- I think it’s not possible,” Argentieri said.  
 “What Zuckerberg is trying to do is put into play the
issue of whether the contract was signed by him or not,” said
Russell Block, a professor of business law at San Diego State
University.  
 Zuckerberg also said the company would go public “when it
makes sense.”  
 “At some point along the path, I think it’ll make sense to
have an IPO,” he said in the ABC interview. “But we’re not
running the company to do that. We’re running the company to
serve more people.”  
 Facebook, started by Zuckerberg in a Harvard dorm room in
2004, has lured 500 million users worldwide, he said yesterday.
Name-brand advertisers like Starbucks Corp. and JetBlue Airways
Corp. have helped the company boost sales.  
 Separately, Zuckerberg said at a technology event in
Mountain View, California yesterday the company is focusing on
growing in Russia and Japan this year as Facebook turns to
countries where it isn’t the market leader. He also indicated
he’s not planning to recruit a CEO.  
 “I don’t know if the model of hiring a CEO to be externally
facing while the people who are making a lot of the decisions
aren’t that person is really a viable model,” he said.
“Technology companies are really product companies.”  
 The case was filed in state court and later transferred to
a federal court in Buffalo.  
 The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 10-CV-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
 Douglas MacMillan  in New York at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        