-- Fairfield, Venezuelan Bankers, Goldman, Transocean, BP, UBS in Court News
-- Elizabeth Amon
-- 2010-07-22T10:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/fairfield-venezuelan-bankers-goldman-transocean-bp-ubs-in-court-news.html

          
          
             Fairfield Greenwich Group co-founder
Walter Noel was sued by the trustee overseeing the liquidation
of Bernard Madoff’s firm as part of an amended lawsuit that
names 43 new defendants.  
 Noel and the other defendants worked with Madoff and his
firm “to commit, and exponentially expand, the single largest
financial fraud in history,” trustee Irving Picard said in the
complaint filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.
“Every dollar the defendants purportedly ‘earned,’ and every
dollar they kept to unjustly enrich themselves, was stolen
money.”  
 Madoff, 72, is serving a 150-year sentence in federal
prison in Butner, North Carolina, after pleading guilty to
orchestrating the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. Fairfield
served as a marketing and investor relations arm for Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC, helping to enable the scheme,
Picard said.  
 Fairfield spokesman Thomas Mulligan, reading from a company
statement, said the decision to expand the lawsuit was
“incomprehensible” because the company is currently involved
in good-faith negotiations with Picard.  
 “The Madoff trustee’s amended complaint is replete with
false, misleading and rehashed accusations,” Fairfield said in
the statement.  
 The case is Picard v. Fairfield Sentry Ltd., 09-AP-1239,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For more, click here.  
 Venezuela Bankers to Face Trial on Misuse of Depositor Funds  
 Venezuela will try eight bankers and the country’s former
securities chief on charges related to the misuse of depositor
funds, the  attorney general’s  office said.  
 Arne Chacon and Miguel Vaz of Banco Real Banco de
Desarrollo face charges of exploiting depositors, while Orlando
Suarez Contramaestre, Luis Suarez Montenegro and Milagros Vivas
Moncayo face charges of acting as accomplices, the attorney
general said in a statement sent by e-mail July 20. Antonio
Marquez, a former securities regulator, will also face charges
of complicity.  
 Ricardo Fernandez Barrueco, who owned four banks taken over
by the government, and Jose Camacho Uzcategui were charged with
alleged complicity in appropriating and deviating depositors’
money and undue approval of loans. Caribay Camacho de Castro,
Camacho Uzcategui’s daughter, will face trial for complicity in
the diversion of depositors’ money. All nine people headed to
trial face the charge of association with delinquency, the
statement said. All will remain in jail until their trials.  
 For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  
 Lawsuits/Pretrial  
 Facebook Didn’t Sign Ownership Contract, CEO Says  
 Facebook Inc., facing a lawsuit from a New York man
claiming an agreement entitles him to 84 percent of the company,
is “quite sure” it never signed such a contract, Chief
Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said.  
 Zuckerberg, speaking in a TV interview with ABC World News,
was responding to an earlier comment from Facebook lawyer Lisa
Simpson, who told a judge the company was “unsure” whether he
had signed a contract. Paul Ceglia sued Facebook and Zuckerberg
in New York state court, claiming that an April 2003 agreement
entitles him to ownership of most of the company.  
 “If we said that we were unsure, I think that was likely
taken out of context,” Zuckerberg said in the interview with
Diane Sawyer. “Because I think we were quite sure that we did
not sign a contract that says that they have any right to
ownership over Facebook.”  
 Ceglia’s lawsuit calls into question provenance of the
world’s most popular social-networking site, estimated to be
worth $24.6 billion by SharesPost.com, an online marketplace for
closely held firms.  
 Ceglia, a resident of Wellsville, New York, included in his
June 30 complaint a two-page “work for hire” contract, which
he claimed entitled him to control of the site.  
 His lawyer produced a copy of the document for U.S.
District Judge Richard Arcara July 20 at a hearing in federal
court in Buffalo, New York.  
 “Whether he signed this piece of paper, we’re unsure at
this moment,” Facebook attorney Simpson said in court.  
 Paul Argentieri, a lawyer for Ceglia, responded to
Zuckerberg’s comments yesterday.  
 “If he thinks he can go to court and give an answer like
that -- I think it’s not possible,” Argentieri said.  
 Squawk-Box Brokers Lose Retrial Bid on New Evidence  
 A former broker at  Merrill Lynch & Co.  and  Citigroup Inc. 
lost a bid to throw out his conviction for selling access to his
brokerages’ internal “squawk boxes” after arguing prosecutors
hid evidence of his innocence.  
 Kenneth Mahaffy Jr., and five co-defendants found guilty
last year, asked U.S. District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn,
New York, to cancel their convictions, dismiss the indictment or
grant them a new trial. Gleeson denied their request in an order
yesterday.  
 Lawyers for the men claim federal prosecutors withheld 27
transcripts of testimony from witnesses in a related civil
lawsuit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Mahaffy’s lawyer, Andrew Frisch, said he discovered the
documents in December, four days after the ex-broker was
sentenced to two years in prison.  
 “None of the testimony on which the motion relies even
remotely supports the proposition that it would be permissible
to sell squawk-box information to day traders so they could try
to trade ahead of block orders,” Gleeson wrote in his order.  
 Frisch said in a phone interview, “We’re very optimistic
about our appeal.”  
 Mahaffy was one of three brokers convicted in April 2009 of
conspiring to sell day traders access to internal squawk boxes
used to discuss pending trades. Three former day-trading
executives at New York-based  A.B. Watley Group Inc.  were also
convicted.  
 Gleeson has allowed the defendants, who were sentenced in
December, to remain free during an appeal.  
 Defense lawyers argued that the government withheld
documents showing that more than 10 brokerage employees said in
depositions that what was said on the squawk boxes wasn’t
confidential.  
 Prosecutors said the transcripts wouldn’t have altered the
verdict. The SEC testimony wasn’t favorable to the defendants,
was immaterial and wouldn’t have cleared them of wrongdoing, the
government said.  
 The day traders were accused of using information overheard
on the intercoms to trade shares ahead of larger institutional
transactions, prosecutors said at trial.  
 The case is U.S. v. Mahaffy, 05-cr-00613, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 For more, click here.  
 BP Judge Asked to Compel Details of Gulf Spill Fund  
 BP Plc  should be required to specify in writing how it will
fund, protect and replenish a $20 billion fund dedicated to
paying cleanup and damage claims from the Gulf of Mexico oil
spill, lawyers suing the company said.  
 BP should produce “any and all trust documents, escrow
agreements or other formation documents or agreements to which
BP is a signatory” relating to two funds BP agreed to
establish, the lawyers said in a motion filed July 20 with U.S.
District Judge Carl Barbier in New Orleans. Barbier is presiding
over more than 30 spill-damage cases.  
 One fund is the $20 billion spill-claims escrow account
administered by New York lawyer Kenneth Feinberg, and the other
is a $100 million companion fund to aid oilfield workers hurt by
a U.S. offshore drilling moratorium imposed after the spill.  
 “No one, it seems, has ever seen a document signed off on
by BP,” Steve Herman, an interim liaison lawyer appointed by
Barbier to coordinate claims, said in a statement released by
his office yesterday. “What, specifically, has BP committed to
do, and what, specifically, has BP given Mr. Feinberg the
authority to agree to do on behalf of BP?”  
 BP  faces more than 300 lawsuits, including proposed class
actions, claiming potentially billions of dollars in damages to
commercial fishing interests, tourist businesses and property
owners harmed by the drifting oil. The spill was caused by the
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, leased by BP, off
the Louisiana coast in April.  
 Herman said lawyers have been trying to clarify details of
how BP’s claims funds will work ever since the escrow accounts
were announced June 16 in a joint press release issued by the
White House and BP.  
 He said a telephone conference late yesterday with BP’s
lawyers failed to produce documents detailing specifics of BP’s
agreements. He said BP has been applying agreements he
negotiates on behalf of the New Orleans cases throughout the
company’s claims-payment process.  
 BP’s Houston media relations personnel didn’t return a call
yesterday seeking comment.  
 The case is In Re: Deepwater Horizon, 2:10-cv-01156, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  
 For more, click here.  
 SEC’s Demand That Goldman Admit ‘Mistake’ Could Spur Lawsuits  
 By forcing  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  to admit a “mistake,”
U.S. regulators may be signaling a more confrontational approach
to future settlements that could expose Wall Street to more
investor lawsuits.  
 In its $550 million accord with Goldman Sachs, the
Securities and Exchange Commission deviated from its usual
practice of imposing a fine while letting a firm remain silent
on whether it engaged in misconduct. Firms that are required to
admit oversights may find it difficult to argue in private
litigation that they conceded no wrongdoing and settled purely
to end regulatory scrutiny, said Salvatore Graziano, a lawyer
who specializes in class-action suits on securities fraud.  
 “This makes it even harder to assert that they settled out
of convenience,” said Graziano, of Bernstein Litowitz Berger &
Grossmann LLP in New York. “Once it’s out there, it’s out
there.”  
 The SEC accused Goldman Sachs three months ago of selling a
mortgage security without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson &
Co. helped design the asset and was betting it would fail.  
 While Goldman Sachs still used the boilerplate language of
not acknowledging or refuting improper conduct, the company also
said it was a “mistake” that its marketing materials for the
security called Abacus 2007-AC1 included “incomplete
information.” The documents didn’t include Paulson’s role,
according to the SEC settlement. The mistake admission was
limited to the Abacus deal.  
 Goldman Sachs spokesman Michael DuVally declined to comment
on why the firm admitted to a mistake. On a call with Wall
Street analysts yesterday, David Viniar, the chief financial
officer, was asked what impact the SEC settlement will have on
any lawsuits against the company.  
 “We don’t think it’s going to have any material impact,”
Viniar said. “We think there’s nothing new in the settlement.”  
 For more, click here.  
 Transocean Employees Become Focus of BP Investigators  
 Transocean Ltd.  employees onboard the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig when it exploded in the Gulf of Mexico have become
the focus of a U.S. government probe into the cause of the fatal
disaster.  
 Stephen Bertone, chief engineer on the rig, and Mike
Williams, chief engineer technician, were designated as parties
of interest July 20 by a joint U.S. Coast Guard-Interior
Department  investigative panel . That boosted to five the number
of Transocean workers who could face criminal charges stemming
from the accident that killed 11 people.  
 No one from  BP Plc , which leased the Deepwater Horizon to
drill the Macondo well, or from other companies involved in the
work has been named a party of interest, according to the
panel’s website. Transocean, the largest offshore oil driller,
may be held liable because under maritime law the vessel owner
has ultimate responsibility for the safety of those onboard,
said Paul Sterbcow, an attorney representing Williams.  
 He later declined to comment on Williams.  
 Guy Cantwell, a spokesman for Switzerland-based Transocean,
declined to comment on the details of the investigation.  
 Nine corporate entities have been designated as parties of
interest by the panel. They are BP and its partners in the well,
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp.  and Mitsui Oil Exploration Co., which
is 70 percent-owned by Japan’s Mitsui & Co.; Transocean;
Halliburton Co.; Cameron International Corp.; Weatherford
International Ltd.; M-I Swaco; and Dril-Quip Inc.  
 A fourth round of hearings is scheduled for Aug. 23-27 in
Houston.  
 For more, click here.  
 New York, Ohio Funds Seek Lead in BP Investor Suit  
 The public pension funds of New York and Ohio asked a
Louisiana court to appoint them as lead plaintiffs in a
securities class-action lawsuit against  BP Plc .  
 The company and some officers and directors are responsible
for the loss in share value since the April explosion and
sinking of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico,
according to a complaint in federal court in Lafayette,
Louisiana, filed on behalf of BP investors.  
 The two state pension funds lost $229.4 million in BP
investments, New York Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli and Ohio
Attorney General Richard A. Cordray said July 20 in court
papers. The funds asked that similar cases against BP be
consolidated with the Ohio and New York plaintiffs as leads.  
 The states’ funds are the best choice “by virtue of the
enormous loss they suffered from their investments in BP as a
result of the defendants’ misconduct,” they said in court
papers. “New York and Ohio have an extremely large financial
interest in this litigation.”  
 The company and its management “made false and misleading
statements regarding BP’s safety protocols, operations, and
safety record, as well as its ability to respond to a major oil
spill,” the funds said in yesterday’s filing.  
 The case is Ludlow v. BP Plc, 6:10-cv-00818, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Louisiana (Lafayette).  
 For more, click here.  
 L’Oreal Heiress Wants to Block Use of Butler’s Tapes  
 L’Oreal SA  heiress Liliane Bettencourt asked a Paris court
to block a news website’s use of recordings that sparked a
political scandal and led police to question a member of
President Nicolas Sarkozy’s government.  
 Bettencourt’s right to privacy trumps the freedom of the
press claimed by the website,  Mediapart , her lawyer told the
Paris appeals court. A lower court was wrong to allow the
recordings, made by Bettencourt’s former butler of conversations
she had with friends and advisers, to be used because of their
news value, he said.  
 The right to privacy “is fundamental in French law,”
Bettencourt’s lawyer Thierry Marembert said in court yesterday.
“These conversations were of a personal nature,” including
several with another of her lawyers.  
 The tapes, made between May 2009 and May 2010, were turned
over to Bettencourt’s only child, who gave them to police. They
appeared on Mediapart in June, just before a trial over the
daughter’s claims her mother was manipulated into giving away a
billion euros ($1.28 billion) in gifts to a photographer friend.  
 The trial over Bettencourt’s daughter’s claims was
postponed indefinitely to investigate the recordings on July 1.
That same day the lower court in Paris ruled to allow the
recordings’ use by Mediapart, saying removing the items from the
website “would restrain journalists’ ability to effectively
fulfill their mission in an excessive and unjustified way.”  
 For more, click here.  
 Brazil Court Rules Madoff Suit to Be Tried Locally, Valor Says  
 A Brazilian court ruled that a lawsuit against Banco
Santander SA in Miami over losses tied to investments in Bernard
Madoff’s funds will be tried in the South American country,
Valor Economico reported.  
 The decision by the Sao Paulo state court may clear the way
for other Brazilians who are suing over Madoff’s funds in Miami
to bring their cases to Brazil, Valor said. The Madrid-based
bank can appeal the decision, Valor said.  
 Helaine Rosa Saab and four of her children sued Santander,
claiming the bank invested her late husband’s money without his
consent in a fund that fed Madoff’s funds, Valor said. The
investment dwindled to less than $141,000 in February 2009 from
$647,555 in 2002, Valor said.  
 Santander won’t comment on matters still in court, the
company told Bloomberg News in an e-mailed statement.  
 For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  
 Trials/Appeals  
 Black Freed From Prison After Posting $2 Million Bond  
 Conrad Black, the ex-Hollinger International Inc. chairman,
was freed from prison after posting a $2 million bail bond
guaranteed by a family friend.  
 Black, 65, yesterday left the  Coleman Federal Correctional
Institution , where he had been since March 2008, prison
spokesman Gary Miller said. Black will be free as he appeals
mail fraud and obstruction of justice convictions.  
 U.S. District Judge Amy J. St. Eve in Chicago set the bail
amount yesterday and said Black isn’t permitted to leave the
U.S. at this time. He must make his way to Chicago for a July 23
hearing at which the judge will instruct him on terms of his
release.  
 “His home is in Canada,” defense attorney Miguel A.
Estrada told St. Eve at this morning’s bail hearing, seeking
greater freedom for his client. The judge said she would
consider it after seeing a Black financial statement and hearing
from a pretrial services officer.  
 Black earlier this week won the right to bail from a
federal appeals court, based on a June 24 Supreme Court
decision. The high court narrowed the scope of a law prosecutors
used to convict him. The court ordered the Chicago-based appeals
court to reconsider its prior ruling upholding the conviction.  
 Black and three associates were found guilty of stealing
$6.1 million from Hollinger International as they engineered
sales of its assets. Black was sentenced to 6 1/2 years on the
obstruction of justice charge and received a five-year
concurrent sentence for fraud.  
 The trial court case is U.S. v. Black, 05-cr-00727, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appellate case is U.S. v. Black, 07-4080, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  
 For more, click here.  
 Cantor’s Lutnick Says U.K. Carbon Unit Made No Money  
 Howard Lutnick, chairman of Cantor Fitzgerald LP, said that
its U.K. carbon credits brokerage was a money-losing failure,
with business projections based on dreams.  
 Cantor is suing Stephen Drummond, a former executive at the
brokerage, in London for the return of $2 million it says it
lent him while he was running the unit,  CantorCO2e . Drummond is
countersuing, claiming he was wrongfully dismissed in 2009 for
failing to tell the company he was in talks with a competitor
about a job.  
 Lutnick said on the witness stand yesterday that since
Drummond left, Cantor has been trying to turn Drummond’s
operation into revenue.  
 “We can’t figure out how to make money from it,” he said.
“The pipeline that Mr. Drummond talked about was a dream. None
of Mr. Drummond’s projections came true.” The business was
built on a “giant series of ifs,” he said.  
 CantorCO2e and EcoSecurities, the competitor Drummond was
in discussions with, both manage projects that receive Certified
Emission Reduction credits under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol.  
 Cantor fired Drummond a few months after providing the loan
when it discovered he had been meeting with EcoSecurities.
Drummond claims he was wrongfully dismissed, and says he doesn’t
owe the company money, because the $2 million was paid to him in
exchange for his shares when Cantor bought the business.  
 The cases are Cantor Fitzgerald LP v. Stephen Drummond and
Stephen Drummond v. CantorCO2e Ltd.  
 For more, click here.  
 Swiss Tax Case of Two UBS Clients Must Be Reheard, Court Says  
 Switzerland’s  Federal Administrative Court  lifted an order
by tax authorities authorizing the transfer of  UBS AG  bank data
to the U.S. regarding two of the bank’s clients.  
 Swiss tax authorities failed to hear the two plaintiffs
before issuing the order, the court said in a July 15 ruling
published yesterday. The court sent the matter back to the  tax
office  that must give the plaintiffs an opportunity to comment
and then issue a new decision, according to the ruling.  
 In a pilot case earlier this week, the court said that an
agreement with the U.S. to transfer data on as many as 4,450 UBS
accounts is binding and rejected a bid to block sending account
information.  
 Last month the Swiss parliament approved the 2009 agreement
with the U.S., elevating it to the status of an official state
treaty. That treaty will also govern the tax office’s decision
in yesterday’s case.  
 After realizing its mistake, the tax office tried to revoke
the order. The tax agency will now review yesterday’s case and
any decision will be guided by the pilot case ruling, said Roger
Braunschweig, a tax administration official.  
 UBS spokesman Dominique Gerster declined to comment. The
bank clients weren’t indentified.  
 Yesterday’s case is: A-3786/2010.  
 For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  
 Verdicts/Settlements  
 Brookfield’s A$110 Million Wembley Accord Approved by Court  
 Brookfield Multiplex Group’s A$110 million ($97 million)
settlement with about 120 individual and institutional
investors, who claimed they lost money because the company
failed to disclose losses at London’s Wembley Stadium, was
approved by the Federal Court of Australia.  
 Brookfield Multiplex, an Australian unit of Toronto-based
 Brookfield Asset Management Inc ., didn’t admit to any wrongdoing
in agreeing to settle the lawsuit, the company said in a
statement yesterday.  
 “This is a major win for the investors,” Andrew Watson,
lawyer with Maurice Blackburn, who represented the plaintiffs,
said in a  statement  on the firm’s Web site.  
 The settlement is the third to surpass the A$100 million
level under Australia’s class-action regime and is about 20
times greater than the investors would have obtained under an
offer Brookfield Multiplex made in 2007, Maurice Blackburn said
in the statement.  
 For more, click here.  
 For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Elizabeth Amon  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        