-- 
Falcone’s Harbinger Lost 19.5% in Illiquid Fund

-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-16T21:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/falcone-s-harbinger-is-said-to-have-lost-10-last-month-in-illiquid-fund.html
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, the
hedge-fund run by billionaire Philip A. Falcone, lost 19.5
percent last year in a pool of hard-to-sell assets that it’s
divesting, according to a letter sent to investors this week.  Falcone also told clients in a separate letter this week
that the so-called side-pocket would be paying $45 million to
settle a civil suit involving  Spectrum Brands Holdings Inc ., one
of the companies in the pool, said an investor who asked not to
be named because the fund is private.  Harbinger, started by Falcone in 2001, limited withdrawals
from its biggest fund in 2008 to about 65 percent of assets and
told clients that it may take as long as two years for the rest
of the money to be returned. The losses in the illiquid pool,
which held $1.3 billion of Harbinger’s $9 billion of assets as
of September 2010, compare with a 15 percent gain, including
reinvested dividends, by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The settlement stems from a 2006 lawsuit filed by  Nacco
Industries Inc ., a Cleveland-based company that makes small
appliances and forklifts, against Applica Inc. and Harbinger’s
main fund. Nacco said yesterday that Harbinger agreed to pay
$60 million in total to settle claims that it tried to hamper
the company’s bid for Applica, according to a regulatory filing.
The case had been scheduled to go to trial Feb. 28.  Harbinger said today in a statement that the parties agreed
to settle the dispute on Feb. 14, while not disclosing any
amount.  Steve Bruce , a spokesman for the New York-based fund,
declined to comment beyond the statement.  The Nacco lawsuit accused senior management at Applica of
tipping Harbinger advisers to confidential merger negotiations
allowing the hedge fund to succeed in a bidding war.  Applica Shareholders  Applica paid Nacco $6 million to end the deal in October
2006. Applica shareholders approved Harbinger’s $8.25 per share
offer, completing the buyout in January 2007. Nacco bid as much
as $8.05 a share before withdrawing its offer.  Through a series of mergers, Applica became part of
Spectrum Brands, a Madison, Wisconsin-based company that makes
the George Foreman grills, as well as pet food, batteries and
lawn-care products.  Hedge-fund managers created side-pockets to segregate their
most illiquid assets and avoid selling them at fire-sale prices
when investors sought to pull out their money after the industry
suffered record losses in 2008. Clients must wait until the
side-pocket holdings are sold before they can get their share of
the funds back.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 