-- FDIC to Issue Securities Backed by $500 Million of Residential Mortgages
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-22T19:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/fdic-to-issue-securities-backed-by-500-million-of-residential-mortgages.html

          
          
             The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
plans to issue securities backed by about $500 million of home
mortgages acquired from failed banks, leaning again on
guarantees to help sell the debt.  
 The FDIC will back about 85 percent of bonds created for
the offering and it may not sell the deal’s junior-ranked notes,
which will lose principal first amid any defaults on the
underlying loans,  David Barr , an agency spokesman, said.  
 “The decision hasn’t been made yet,” he said today in a
telephone interview. “We may sell all or a portion of the
certificates at some point in the future,”  
 The FDIC, which has closed more than 250 banks since 2008,
began raising cash in the bond market for the  first time  since
the early 1990s in March. The Washington-based agency that month
sold $3.8 billion of guaranteed notes in three deals.  
 As of May 31, the agency held about $32 billion of assets
from failed banks excluding about $7.9 billion of interests in
limited liability companies that it has also been creating to
help offload its holdings, Barr said.  
 Two of the FDIC’s March bond sales were backed by its loans
to such companies, while the other transaction was a repackaging
of existing mortgage bonds.  
 Barr declined to discuss the timing of the latest sale.  RBS
Securities Inc.  is underwriting the transaction.  
 The FDIC-backed debt is probably most comparable to
atypical types of so-called agency mortgage bonds carrying
government-backed guarantees, such as Washington-based Fannie
Mae’s securities tied to multifamily mortgages, said  David Land ,
a money manager at St. Paul, Minnesota-based Advantus Capital
Management Inc., which oversees about $18 billion.  
 An investor may want to accept similar  yields  as found with
those types of securities, “depending on how much you value
liquidity,” Land said in a telephone interview.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        