-- Feinberg Says Companies Should Adjust Pay Policies for `Crisis'
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-23T20:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/feinberg-said-to-cite-17-u-s-bailout-recipients-for-unwarranted-payments.html

          
          
             Kenneth Feinberg , the Obama
administration’s special master on executive compensation,
called on 17 bailed-out financial firms including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Bank of America Corp. to adopt compensation
policies that allow directors to lower top executives’ pay when
their firm is under threat.  
 About $1.6 billion the companies paid executives during the
financial crisis, though legal, were “ill-advised” and showed
“bad judgment,” Feinberg said at a press conference in
Washington today. He stopped short of asking the firms to return
money and declined to say the payments were “contrary to the
public interest.”  
 The other companies Feinberg cited were: American
International Group Inc., Citigroup Inc.; Morgan Stanley;
JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Wells Fargo & Co.; American Express Co.;
Capital One Financial Corp.; CIT Group Inc.; M&T Bank Corp.;
Regions Financial Corp.; SunTrust Banks Inc.; Bank of New York
Mellon Corp.; PNC Financial Services Group Inc.; U.S. Bancorp
and Boston Private Financial Holdings Inc.  
 Feinberg, 64, is winding down work started when he was
appointed last year after public outrage over bonuses paid at
the AIG unit responsible for trades that led to $100 billion in
losses and a $182.3 billion taxpayer bailout.  
 AIG, Citigroup  
 Last year he scrutinized pay at seven firms, including AIG
and Citigroup. Rescued companies that weren’t included in those
rulings, such as Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, were part of
the so-called look-back review covering a four-month period of
2008 and 2009.  
 Feinberg’s ruling reflects “an effort to effect improved
executive compensation structures through public opinion,” said
 Mark Poerio , a Washington-based compensation attorney with Paul,
Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP.  
 It wouldn’t have been fair to rule that the companies had
acted against the public interest because they weren’t subject
to government pay regulations at the time, Feinberg said. He
said he was concerned such a decision could have spurred private
lawsuits.  
 “Congress might very well be more willing to intervene if
there was such a finding,” Feinberg said. “I’m trying to
minimize the likelihood that today’s decision will trigger
another round of investigations and litigation.”  
 Repayments  
 Feinberg said 11 of the 17 companies had repaid their TARP
funds with interest, showing “the wisdom” of the government’s
$700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 Pay in some cases was “excessive,” Feinberg told
Bloomberg Television in an interview today. He said “second-
guessing” the firms was part of his job.  
 Feinberg told Bloomberg TV that the 17 companies should
allow their boards of directors “to terminate legally obligated
compensation contracts and declare them null and void going
forward in the event of another financial crisis.”  
 Some payments to executives during the period exceeded $10
million, Feinberg said. He declined to name the companies or
individuals.  
 “Getting our compensation structure right is a priority
for us,” Citigroup spokeswoman  Molly Millerwise Meiners  said in
an e-mail today. “Since the crisis, we have done a lot of work
to make sure it is performance-based and we look forward to
reviewing the special master’s recommendations.”  
 Feinberg said Citigroup has agreed to comply with his
requests.  
 $100 Million  
 Citigroup agreed to sell its Phibro LLC energy-trading unit
last year to Occidental Petroleum Corp. to avoid a showdown with
Feinberg over a proposed $100 million pay package for  Andrew Hall , Phibro’s chief executive officer.  
 Many of the companies Feinberg named “are already heading
down the path” toward overhauling their pay policies, said
 David Wise , principal and consultant on compensation issues for
Hay Group, a Philadelphia-based management consulting firm.
“It’s all headed in a much better direction, but there’s still
more work to do.”  
 Feinberg surveyed pay practices that 419 companies used
from October 2008, when government funds were first awarded, to
February 2009, when President  Barack Obama  signed economic
stimulus legislation that included pay curbs.  
 “In a crisis situation, a firm would have authority to
restructure, reduce or cancel payments to executives -- and not
be bound by ‘guarantees,’” Feinberg’s office said in a
statement. “The entirely voluntary proposal is recommended by
the special master for wide adoption.”  
 Feinberg will leave his post as special master on pay next
month to focus on his job as government-appointed administrator
of BP Plc’s fund to pay claims stemming from the Gulf of Mexico
oil spill. His successor hasn’t been named.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kenneth Feinberg Feinberg has been reviewing pay at 419 companies covering the period from October 2008, when U.S. government bailout money was first awarded, to February 2009. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Jeanne Branthover, managing director of Boyden Global Executive Search, talks with Bloomberg's Lori Rothman about Kenneth Feinberg's call for 17 bailed-out firms to adopt compensation policies that allow directors to lower executives' pay when their firm is under threat.  
     Branthover also discusses the outlook for compensation practices and hiring on Wall Street. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Kenneth Feinberg, the Obama administration’s special master on executive compensation, talks with Bloomberg's Hans Nichols about compensation practices at financial firms bailed-out by the U.S. government. 
     Feinberg called on 17 firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. to adopt compensation policies that allow directors to lower top executives’ pay when a firm’s survival is under threat. Bloomberg's Julie Hyman also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
