-- Fifth Third Has First Profit in Year as Pressure From Bad Loans Decreases
-- Craig Trudell
-- 2010-07-22T11:31:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/fifth-third-has-first-profit-in-year-as-pressure-from-bad-loans-decreases.html

          
          
             Fifth Third Bancorp , Ohio’s largest
lender, posted its first profit in four quarters as pressure
from bad loans eased.  
 Second-quarter net income for common shareholders was $130
million, or 16 cents a share, compared with $856 million, or
$1.15, a year earlier, the Cincinnati-based company said today
in a statement. Analysts predicted Fifth Third would earn 2
cents a share, according to the average of 24 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 The profit was the third in nine quarters for the lender,
whose borrowers struggled to keep up with payments after the
jobless rate rose during the recession and housing prices fell.
The bank owes $3.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury Department’s
bailout fund and named former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  William Isaac  as chairman in May.  
 “We believe it is the next bank under coverage to repay
TARP,” Barclays Capital analyst  Jason Goldberg  wrote in a July
9 research report.  
 The lender set aside $325 million in the quarter to cover
 bad debts , down 69 percent from the $1 billion a year earlier.
Provisions for bad loans and leases totaled $8.1 billion in the
last two years as falling real estate values in Michigan and
Florida drove losses.  
 “Credit trends remained favorable, reflecting the benefit
of our actions to aggressively address problems and continued
efforts to improve the quality of originations and proactively
resolve credit issues,” Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Kabat 
said in the statement.  
 Reform Costs  
 The finance-reform bill signed into law yesterday will
increase compliance costs, Fifth Third said in the statement.
The provision that limits debit-card “swipe” fees paid to
banks by merchants is likely to hurt revenue and earnings, the
bank said, without giving specifics.  
 Isaac, 66, was the FDIC chairman from 1981 to 1985. The
Ohio native has been a banking-industry consultant and a
participant in at least one group of private investors trying to
buy distressed lenders. He took over as chairman of Fifth Third
from Kabat, 53, who remains chief executive officer.  
 Fifth Third dropped 50 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $11.28
yesterday in Nasdaq trading.  
 (Fifth Third will broadcast a conference call to discuss
first-quarter results at 9 a.m. New York time at its  website .)  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        