-- Finnowave Hedge Fund Aims to Quadruple Assets by Luring Japan's Pensions
-- Komaki Ito
-- 2010-07-22T05:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/finnowave-hedge-fund-aims-to-lure-japan-pensions-with-management-license.html

          
          
             Finnowave Investments , a Japanese
hedge-fund firm, aims to quadruple assets to 100 billion yen
($1.2 billion) in about two years after it won a license to
manage funds, making it easier to lure local pension money.  
 Finnowave obtained the discretionary investment manager
license from  Japan’s Financial Services Agency  in June, said
 Hideki Wakabayashi , president of the Tokyo-based company. Assets
under management currently stand at about 25 billion yen across
three funds, he said.  
 The firm joins a growing number of Japanese hedge funds
aiming to tap increased investment and advising demand from
local pensions. More than a third of the Japanese pensions
surveyed by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s asset management said they
expect to boost allocations to alternative investments such as
hedge funds.  
 “Japanese pension funds’ attitude toward alternative
investments is starting to change as they realize the need to
diversify their long-only investments,” Wakabayashi said in an
interview in Tokyo on July 20. “It’s part of our goal to have a
good balanced investor base by winning more local mandates.”  
 Foreign investors, including family offices and funds-of-
hedge-funds, account for half of Finnowave’s clients, while the
other half are Japanese, Wakabayashi said. In 2008, about 70
percent of its clients were overseas investors, he said.  
 Additional Hiring  
 Finnowave added five people dedicated to administration and
marketing to acquire the asset management license, Wakabayashi
said. Firms must have at least 50 million yen of capital to be
licensed.  
 “We do see more and more managers moving to get a
discretionary investment management license and fully operate
onshore in Japan,” said  Rory Kennedy , chief operating officer,
at Rogers Investment Advisors K.K. in Tokyo. “Ultimately, this
will lead to a more robust Japanese hedge-fund business.”  
 Wakabayashi, 50, started his career in 1986 as an analyst
tracking Japan’s technology industry at Nomura Research
Institute Ltd. He also has worked as an analyst at JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co. and Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo,
according to the firm’s website.  
 Finnowave’s 20 billion yen flagship fund returned 15.8
percent last year, following a 13 percent return in 2008, and is
up 2.5 percent so far this year through June, according to a
letter to investors.  
 Outperforming  
 The long-short strategy fund mainly invests in Japanese
stocks with a  market value  of at least 50 billion yen, according
to Wakabayashi. It has outperformed the  Eurekahedge Japan Hedge
Fund Index  in the past two years. The index fell 10 percent in
2008 and returned 7.3 percent last year.  
 The fund has capacity to take up to 60 billion yen, after
which Finnowave plans to close it to new investors, he said.  
 “Pension funds are after simple-to-understand strategies
like long-short funds that profit from buying good stocks and
selling bad stocks,” Wakabayashi said. In a short sale, a
manager sells borrowed stocks in the hope they can be bought
back later at a cheaper price.  
 The fund profited by shorting  Japanese financial stocks  on
the view that the sovereign debt crisis in Europe will weigh on
the finances of local firms, according to  Masao Fujisawa , chief
executive officer of Finnowave, who runs the fund with
Wakabayashi. On the long side, the fund bought machinery stocks
such as  Tsugami Corp. , which makes grinding machines for hard
discs used in consumer electronics, because of rising demand
from China, Fujisawa said.  
 Small-Cap Rally  
 “The most important thing for us is to deliver steady
returns for our clients,” Fujisawa said. “The asset increase
has to come in-line with the performance.”  
 Finnowave set up another fund in April 2009, which invests
in Japanese companies with a market value of less than 50
billion yen. That fund also employs a long-short strategy.  
 The fund was set up to capture the  rally in Japanese small-
cap stocks  and will run for about three to four years with the
goal of boosting assets by three to four times, said Fujisawa.
The 2 billion yen fund has returned 73 percent through June
since its inception.  
 Finnowave started a fund in October that only invests in
Japanese and Asian  technology stocks . The 2.5 billion yen fund
returned 5.3 percent in the months it operated last year and is
down 2 percent this year through June. The maximum capacity for
the fund would be about 20 billion to 25 billion yen, according
to Wakabayashi.  
 “Since the summer of 2008, we’ve stopped taking
directional bets on the overall market and that has helped our
performance, especially since the subprime crisis,” he said.  
 Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tomoko Yamazaki  in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
 Komaki Ito  in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        