-- Ford May Earn $1.62 Billion on Pricier Cars
-- Keith Naughton
-- 2010-07-22T20:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/ford-cocktail-party-success-lifts-prices-may-bring-1-62-billion-profit.html

          
          
             Ford Motor Co.  may report adjusted
second-quarter profit of $1.62 billion tomorrow as Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally ’s overhaul of the lineup lets the
company charge more for new models.  
 The second-largest U.S. automaker’s redesigned 2010 Taurus
is selling for $6,300 more than last year’s model. And buyers
paid an average of $30,309 for all Ford vehicles in June as they
splurged on extras like heated seats and upgraded electronics,
up 14 percent from five years ago, according to automotive
researcher Edmunds.com.  
 “On the Taurus, we’re finding that people like them pretty
well loaded up so we’re not ordering them stripped down
anymore,” said Jack Kain, a Ford dealer in Versailles,
Kentucky. “People are pre-sold on Ford when they come in here
and they’re getting all the bells and whistles.”  
 Analysts  have raised projections on Ford’s adjusted
quarterly profit to an average 41 cents a share from 39 cents on
July 6, based on 12  estimates . The company had an operating loss
of $638 million, or 21 cents a share, a year earlier, excluding
a gain from debt reductions.  
 Higher net prices added $1 billion to Ford’s pretax
earnings in the first quarter. The better lineup helped the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s  revenue  per vehicle continue
to rise in the second quarter even with a $400 increase in
incentives per vehicle,  Joseph Amaturo , an analyst for
Buckingham Research Group, said in a July 13 research note.  
 Shares Peaked  
 Ford shares peaked at $14.46 on April 26, the day before
the company reported a $2.1 billion first-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates by 48 percent. The company cautioned
 investors  not to expect the pace of earnings growth to continue
and the  shares  fell 32 percent by June 29, giving up their gains
for the year. Ford rose 54 cents, or 4.7 percent, to $12.09 at
4:15 p.m. and has gained 21 percent this year.  
 The automaker is counting on price growth on models
debuting this year, including the redesigned Explorer sport-
utility vehicle and the Focus small car. Mulally is attempting
to boost prices by improving quality and fuel economy, and
packing new models with amenities such as voice-activated phone
and stereo systems.  
 Mulally, who came to Ford from  Boeing Co.  in late 2006,
championed reviving the Taurus when he discovered Ford had
discontinued the model. Once the top-selling car in America,
Taurus sales plummeted after a mid-1990s revamp produced a
version that Mulally likened to a football. He ordered a new
design and sales have more than doubled.  
 “The Ford brand has a new status that it maybe never
had,” IHS Automotive analyst  John Wolkonowicz  said. “Nobody
will criticize you at the cocktail party now for owning a
Ford.”  
 Paying Off  
 The strategy is paying off, said  Jessica Caldwell , director
of pricing and industry analysis for Edmunds.com in Santa
Monica, California. Ford ranked highest among mainstream brands
in J.D. Power & Associates’ new-car quality study last month,
while  Toyota Motor Corp.’s  namesake brand fell following the
recall of more than 8 million vehicles for defects linked to
unintended acceleration.  
 “People are willing to pay more if you consistently
produce good cars with good quality,” Caldwell said. “Ford can
conquest some import buyers from Toyota and Honda, who are
vulnerable now.”  
 Ford also has won customers because it didn’t take a
government bailout and avoided the bankruptcies that befell the
predecessors of General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC. Ford
is now the most considered brand by consumers researching on
KBB.com, according to a spokeswoman, Robyn Eckard. Ford ranked
fourth in 2008 when it initially sought government help.  
 ‘A Perfect Time’  
 “Not taking the money clearly was a turning point, but it
only took us so far,” said John Felice, general manager for
Ford marketing. “You need good product in the showroom and it
happened at a perfect time for us because we’d just launched the
new Fusion and were about to launch the new Taurus.”  
 Mulally has insisted on building only as many cars as
consumers demand and pushed to simplify the options offered on
Ford models, Felice said.  
 Shortly after arriving, Mulally was frustrated trying to
sort out options while ordering an Econoline van for his
mother’s retirement community, Felice said. Ford now bundles
amenities into groups, such as a $2,340 electronics package that
includes voice-activated navigation and HD radio.  
 Leather Seats  
 Heated leather seats, priced at $715, were the most popular
upgrade among the initial buyers for Ford’s new Fiesta
subcompact, which sells for $13,996 to $20,375, Felice said.  
 “Every automaker is trying to unlock the code to how you
can load more features into your vehicles to improve margins,”
said  Erich Merkle , an analyst with Autoconomy LLC in Grand
Rapids, Michigan. “Ford seems to have been able to do that.”  
 Some of Ford’s price gains may be because wealthy buyers
now dominating the car market are choosing pricier models, said
Thomas King, an analyst with J.D. Power. U.S. auto sales are on
pace this year to be the second-lowest since 1982.  
 The heavy discounts of the past are unlikely to return
because Ford is leading an industry trend to focus on profits
instead of boosting sales at any  cost , King said. Industrywide,
the average price of a new car in June was $29,720, up 8.4
percent from January 2005, according to Edmunds.  
 In that period, Ford went from a below-average price of
$26,691 per vehicle in 2005 to $30,309 last month, the highest
price among mainstream brands, according to Edmunds.  
 Though the pace of price gains will slow, there is still
room to grow, IHS’s Wolkonowicz said.  
 “You won’t be paying $70,000 for a Ford,” Wolkonowicz
said. “It will seek its level, which is still higher than it is
today because Ford is now a desirable brand like Honda.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Naughton  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Alan Mulally, chief executive officer of Ford Motor Co. Photographer: Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
