-- Forint Advances for Third Day on Europe's Industrial Output Improvement
-- Piotr Skolimowski
-- 2010-07-22T15:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/forint-advances-for-third-day-on-europe-s-industrial-output-improvement.html

          
          
             The Hungarian forint strengthened
for a third day after Europe’s manufacturing and services
industry unexpectedly accelerated in July, improving the outlook
for the country’s exports to its closest markets.  
 The currency advanced 0.6 percent to 283.90 per euro as of
4:35 p.m. in Budapest, the biggest appreciation among 25
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The zloty
gained 0.4 percent to 4.0893 against the euro and the Czech
koruna added 0.4 percent to 25.193.  
 The forint is recovering from a drop to the weakest level
in almost 15 months on July 19 after talks about extending the
country’s aid package with the International Monetary Fund and
the European Union were suspended over the weekend.  
 European stocks climbed for a third day and the euro
strengthened against the dollar as reports showed unexpected
growth in the region’s manufacturing and U.K. retail sales
increased in June more than economists estimated, easing concern
that the economic recovery may be faltering. The 16 countries
sharing the common European currency are Hungary’s biggest
export market.  
 The forint “is riding the good tide of external market but
nothing has been sorted and nothing has changed,” said  Luis Costa , an emerging-markets strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
London. “I don’t see any sign from the government that they
want to sort out the IMF situation and see no reason to hold the
forint at the moment.”  
 ‘Slim Chance’  
 Hungary has a “slim chance” of reaching an agreement with
the IMF provided the government shows a “radical change” in
its attitude toward fiscal reforms and central bank
independence, said Iryna Ivaschenko, the representative of the
Washington-based lender in Hungary, according to Dow Jones. The
country needs to solve its budget issues even without an IMF
program,  Christoph Rosenberg , who led the Fund’s mission to
Budapest, said today in an interview with Bloomberg.  
 Hungary, which turned to international lenders in 2008
after demand for its debt dried up, won’t be able to access
capital markets if it can’t reach agreement with the IMF and the
EU on the terms of its bailout loan, Nomura International Plc
said. The government’s assumption that it can finance itself
without the IMF’s backing is “a myth,”  Peter Attard Montalto ,
a London-based emerging-market economist, wrote in an e-mailed
note.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        