-- Former Morgan Crucible Chief's Criminal Obstruction Case Goes to U.S. Jury
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-07-22T20:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/former-morgan-crucible-chief-s-criminal-obstruction-case-goes-to-u-s-jury.html

          
          
             A lawyer for  Ian Norris  told
Philadelphia jurors that the former  Morgan Crucible Co.  chief
executive officer didn’t obstruct justice in an alleged price-
fixing scheme as deliberations began in his criminal trial.  
 Norris, 67, was indicted by a U.S. grand jury in 2003 and
extradited from the U.K. in March after extensive trans-Atlantic
negotiations for a trial that began July 12.  
 When a defendant like Norris cooperatively writes up his
best account of what happened at business meetings, “that’s not
obstruction of justice, that’s following instructions,” Norris
attorney  Christopher Curran  told jurors today in his closing
arguments.  
 Norris was the first foreign defendant to be sent back to
the U.S. to face charges arising from a criminal antitrust
investigation,  U.S. Justice Department  officials said in March.
His subordinates were alleged to have ordered destruction of
files detailing secret talks among European makers of carbon and
graphite products about fixing prices in a cartel lasting more
than a decade.  
 Norris engaged in a “sophisticated long-term scheme” to
obstruct an investigation and “persuaded his subordinates to
come along with him,” prosecuting attorney  Lucy McClain  said in
her summation today.  
 Morgan Crucible , founded in 1856 and based in Windsor,
England, makes military body armor, carbon items, ceramics,
bearings and other products for the medical, automotive,
aerospace and telecommunications industries. The company
reported  sales  last year of 942.6 million pounds ($1.47
billion).  
 Secret Talks  
 Norris retired from  Morgan Crucible  in 2002 after battling
prostate cancer. U.S. prosecutors alleged he colluded with
rivals to fix prices on carbon parts and then orchestrated a
cover-up of the scheme. The cartel, which originally operated in
Europe, spread to the U.S. in 1989 and continued until 2000,
according to a U.S. indictment.  
 U.K. authorities refused to allow Norris to be extradited
on price-fixing charges because such activities weren’t a crime
in Britain at the time. U.S. prosecutors then pressed conspiracy
and obstruction counts and a London-based court backed the
extradition in February.  
 The cartel included companies such as Germany’s  SGL Carbon 
AG, France’s  Carbone Lorraine SA a nd Austria’s Hoffmann & Co.
and at one time controlled about 93 percent of the European
market for carbon products used in manufacturing and
steelmaking.  
 Fines Paid  
 The companies paid hundreds of millions of dollars in fines
and lawsuit settlements to resolve claims by government
regulators and customers.  
 The former top executives of both SGL and UCAR
International Inc. pleaded guilty to federal conspiracy charges
in connection with price fixing.  Robert Koehler , SGL’s chairman,
was fined $10 million while UCAR Chairman  Robert Krass  was
sentenced to a 17-month prison term.  
 The case is U.S. v. Ian Norris, 03-CR-632, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia.)  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Yasiejko  in Philadelphia at  yasiejko@gmail.com   
          
          


  


        