-- French Business Confidence Rises in July; Consumer Confidence Unchanged
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-07-22T07:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/french-business-confidence-rose-in-july-as-improving-trade-boosts-exports.html

          
          
             French business  confidence  climbed
in July while consumer sentiment was unchanged as job concerns
mounted even amid improving global trade that’s boosting exports
and factory output.  
 The index of sentiment among factory executives increased
to 98 from a revised 96 in June, Paris-based national statistics
institute Insee said today in an e-mailed statement. Economists
expected a reading of 94, a Bloomberg survey showed. A gauge of
consumer confidence held at minus 39, compared with a median
forecast of minus 40 by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 “It’s a nice surprise, and the main driver is an increase
in orders,”  Philippe Waechter , head of economic research at
Natixis Asset Management in Paris, said about the business-
confidence data. “But we have to be a bit cautious because not
all surveys have confirmed the improvement.”  
 French manufacturing output advanced in May as a decline in
the euro helped boost exports and production. Renault SA and PSA
Peugeot Citroen said this month that first-half sales jumped 22
percent and 17 percent, respectively, helped by government sales
incentives and demand from abroad.  
 While the economy has grown for four straight quarters
after France’s worst slump in six decades, the recovery remains
fragile and dependent on exports as President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
phases out fiscal-stimulus measures. The economy will expand 1.4
percent this year as a pickup in foreign sales begins to spill
over into domestic demand, Insee predicted on June 24.  
 Pension Overhaul  
 The government is pushing through changes to the pension
system that will raise the retirement age and impose new taxes,
measures that labor unions have deemed unfair. The government is
also targeting tax breaks to cut the budget deficit to the
European Union limit of 3 percent of output by 2013 from about 8
percent this year.  
 The number of jobseekers in France climbed by 22,600 to 2.7
million in May, the highest in five years, as companies trimmed
payrolls in the wake of the recession. Manufacturers are seeking
to cut costs and jobs while the government is avoiding replacing
civil servants.  
 The Labor and Finance ministries are due to release June
figures for jobseekers on July 27.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@Bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        