-- Future French Soccer Chief Rules Out Franck Ribery, Benzema for Team
-- Gregory Viscusi
-- 2010-07-22T09:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/future-french-soccer-chief-rules-out-franck-ribery-benzema-for-team.html

          
          
             French soccer players  Franck Ribery 
and  Karim Benzema  should not be selected for the national team
as long as they are under investigation in a prostitution
affair, the expected future director of the French Football
Federation said.  
 “As any citizen or lover of the national team, I don’t see
how a player under investigation can be selected,” Fernand
Duchaussoy, who is expected to be elected tomorrow as head of
the FFF, said in a statement issued to newspaper Le Parisien.  
 Benzema, 22, and Ribery, 27, were questioned by police this
week over their alleged relation with an underage prostitute.  
 The woman, who is now 18 and goes by the name Zahia, said
in an interview and  photo spread  with magazine Paris Match in
April that she had relations with several players on the
national team, whom she met at a Paris nightclub. She said in
the interview that she hadn’t told them she was under 18 at the
time.  
 Paying for sex is legal in France. Pimping and soliciting
clients are illegal, as is prostitution under the age of 18.  
 Sophie Bottai, Ribery’s lawyer, told reporters during a
break in the questioning that her client didn’t know Zahia’s
age. Benzema’s lawyer, Sylvain Cornier, denied the Real Madrid
player ever had a relation with Zahia.  
 Ribery, who plays his club football for Bayern Munich, has
played 48 times for France and was a member of the team that was
eliminated in the first round of the 2010 World Cup. Benzema has
played 27 times for the national team, but wasn’t selected for
this year’s World Cup.  
 The FFF’s board meets tomorrow to elect a successor for
President Jean-Pierre Escalettes, who announced his resignation
after France’s failed World Cup campaign. France lost two of its
three matches, and Ribery led a strike by players to protest the
exclusion of a player who had insulted the coach.  
 Laurent Blanc , who took over as national team coach after
the World Cup, hasn’t said if he’ll select players involved in
organizing the players strike.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gregory Viscusi  in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        