-- Gala Coral Gets Lender Permission to Sell Up to $900 Million of Junk Bonds
-- Kate Haywood
-- 2010-07-22T10:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/gala-coral-gets-lender-permission-to-sell-up-to-900-million-of-junk-bonds.html

          
          
             Gala Coral Group Ltd., the U.K.
gaming company taken over by creditors last month, got lender
approval to sell high-yield bonds.  
 Gala won the option to sell 300 million pounds ($459
million) to 600 million pounds of notes that can be used to
repay senior bank debt, Chairman  Neil Goulden  said in an
interview. Ninety-four percent of the Nottingham, England-based
company’s creditors approved the bond sale plan, which must be
done in the next nine months.  
 Lenders led by  Leon Black ’s Apollo Global Management LLC
took control of Gala in June in exchange for writing down a
quarter of the company’s debt to $2.9 billion after the U.K.’s
2007 ban on smoking in public places weakened the company’s
bingo and casino business.  
 “Gala Coral has suffered more than most, but I think
investors would be reasonably receptive to looking at any
deal,” said  Jonathan Moore , a high-yield debt analyst at
Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. “The high-yield market has
a lot of gaming companies including William Hill and Ladbrokes,
so investors are already comfortable with the industry.”  
 Gala’s senior loans were quoted at between 91 percent and
93 percent of face value, compared with 91 percent to 91.5
percent at the end of May before the debt restructuring,
according to Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  
 Standard & Poor’s ranks Gala at B, five levels below
investment grade. High-yield debt is graded below BBB- by S&P
and Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service.  
 Gala will have about 234 million pounds of cash at the end
of the 2010 financial year, before 216 million pounds of debt
repayments in 2012 put pressure on its financial profile,
according to S&P.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Patricia Kuo  in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood  in London at 
 khaywood@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        