-- Geithner Sees `Basic Confidence' in U.S. Economy
-- Ian Katz
-- 2010-07-22T16:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/geithner-sees-basic-confidence-in-economy-even-with-tight-credit-market.html

          
          
             Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he sees “basic confidence” in the U.S. economy
even though credit is “still quite tight” for some borrowers.  
 For companies that were affected by the recession, “it is
still very difficult out there, very hard to get credit,”
Geithner told reporters in Washington today. “That’s not
surprising given the scale of the crisis.”  
 Geithner, 48, will lead a council of regulators that will
look for risks to the financial system to avoid a repeat of the
worst crisis since the Great Depression. Geithner said one of
the strengths of the panel, created by the financial regulatory
legislation President  Barack Obama  signed into law yesterday, is
that it will have authority to examine non-bank financial firms.  
 “One of the powers given this group is to make sure that
the set of rules on leverage, on capital, apply” to banks such
as  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  as well as firms including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. , GE Capital and insurer American International Group
Inc., he said.  
 Geithner said tax cuts enacted under former President
 George W. Bush  for “the most fortunate 2 or 3 percent of
Americans” should expire on schedule at the end of this year.  
 “That will help us begin the process of making a
contribution to bringing down our long-term deficits,” he said.
“That’s the sensible approach going forward.”  
 Corporate Taxes  
 The Treasury secretary also said the administration is
“likely to take a broader look” at corporate tax policy next
year.  
 Geithner said  Elizabeth Warren , a Harvard law professor who
heads the congressional panel overseeing the Treasury’s bailout
program, is “one of the most effective advocates for reform”
and would be “an enormously effective leader” of a new
consumer agency.  
 Warren is among candidates to head the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, White House senior adviser  David Axelrod  said
last week. Geithner said he had not yet made any recommendations
to Obama, who will nominate a candidate.  
 Assistant Treasury Secretary  Michael Barr  and Justice
Department counsel  Gene Kimmelman , who are on a White House
short list for the agency, are “very well-qualified, excellent
candidates, too,” Geithner said. “I’ve heard others, too, but
I’m not going to share those with you right now, but they’re
good.”  
 Estate Tax  
 Geithner, responding to a question about the absence of a
federal estate tax, said it is “a terribly troubling thing that
the United States of America would let that lapse.” The tax
should be restored to 2009 levels, he said.  
 The Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of
2001 allowed the federal estate tax to expire on Jan. 1, 2010,
before resuming again on Jan. 1, 2011.  
 The death of New York Yankees owner  George Steinbrenner  on
July 13 has focused attention on the absence of the estate tax.
Had Steinbrenner died last year, much of his estate would have
been taxed at 45 percent, costing his heirs hundreds of millions
of dollars.  
 Geithner declined to say whether he thinks Steinbrenner’s
heirs should voluntarily pay the tax.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. treasury secretary Timothy Geithner said the administration is “likely to take a broader look” at corporate tax policy next year.. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
