-- Gene-Test Services Mislead Public, U.S. Government Report Says
-- Rob Waters
-- 2010-07-22T19:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/gene-test-services-mislead-public-on-disease-risk-u-s-investigator-says.html

          
          
             Four gene-testing companies are
misleading U.S. consumers by providing unclear or conflicting
information on the risk of disease, according to a government
investigator who sampled the services on the Internet.  
 Gregory Kutz  led a probe for the  Government Accountability
Office  by setting up customer accounts with  Navigenics  of Foster
City, California,  23andMe Inc.  of Mountain View, California,
Pathway Genomics Corp. of San Diego and  DeCode Genetics Inc.  of
Reykjavik, Iceland, and sending them DNA from five people. The
companies’ reports assessing health risks were “medically
unproven and so ambiguous as to be meaningless,” Kutz said in
his  report , presented today at a hearing in Washington.  
 The oversight subcommittee of the House Committee on Energy
and Commerce is evaluating the public-health effects of direct-
to-consumer genetic tests. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration
has said it will step up regulation of gene-testing companies.  
 “The results show that the tests are not ready for prime
time,” Kutz told the committee.  
 A representative for  Navigenics  told a female customer in a
recorded  telephone  conversation played for the committee that
the above-average risk prediction she was given for breast
cancer “meant she was ‘in the high risk of pretty much getting’
the disease.” Experts consulted by the GAO called the statement
“‘horrifying’ because it implies the test is diagnostic,”
according to the report.  
 Surreptitious Swabbing  
 In another instance, a representative of  Pathway Genomics 
told a customer that it would “absolutely” be acceptable to
surreptitiously get some DNA from her fiancée and submit it for
a test that would determine his ancestry. Such an action would
be illegal in many states, Kutz testified.  
 Pathway considered this to be a serious incident, David
Becker, the company’s chief scientific officer, told the
committee. The customer service agent who made that comment was
retrained, he said.  
 “We take responsibility for that particular action,”
Becker said. “That is against our policy.”  
 Kutz said he submitted his own DNA to all four companies
and was told by 23andMe and DeCode that his risk for developing
prostate cancer was average, while Pathway told him it was below
average and Navigenics said it was above average.  
 The dueling results provided by the companies may stem from
the fact that each of them considers different numbers of genes
that may suggest risk, Ashley Gould, chief legal counsel for
23andMe, told the committee.  
 Dueling Results Unacceptable  
 “We agree it’s not acceptable to get the different
results,” Gould said. “We need standards” that would cover
all purveyors of gene test results.  
 23andMe will submit its own plan for regulating the
industry to the FDA tomorrow, Gould said.  
 Vance Vanier , chief executive officer of Navigenics, said
the recorded comments made to consumers by company
representatives were “extraordinarily disappointing.”  
 The FDA’s recent efforts to monitor gene-testing companies
and require them to seek agency clearance for marketing their
tests were spurred by the increasingly high profile the
companies have taken in promoting the services,  Jeffrey Shuren ,
director of the FDA’s  Center for Devices and Radiological
Health , told the committee.  
 ‘Why Didn’t We Act?’  
 When Pathway Genomics announced in May its intention to
sell its test kits in Walgreen Co.’s retail stores, that “lit a
fire” under the FDA, he said.  
 “If there’s any issue with the FDA, it’s why didn’t we act
sooner,” Shuren said.  
 While genetic knowledge is rapidly evolving, the ability to
accurately predict disease risk from most gene tests is still in
its infancy, said  James Evans , a professor of genetics and
medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.  
 “We have no idea and neither does anybody at those
companies about how to interpret those risks,” he told the
committee. “We are nowhere near that point now” where accurate
risk assessment can be made for most diseases by scanning
people’s genes.  
 Pathway’s Becker said his company was meeting with the FDA
and supported development of “prudent” regulations covering
the gene-testing industry.  
 Kari Stefansson , chief scientific officer of DeCode
Genetics, said in a telephone interview that he wasn’t invited
to testify before the committee.  
 “I feel extraordinarily confident that what we are
reporting is correct,” he said. “I can only be held
responsible for what we do,” not other companies.  
 DCGNQ US <Equity> CN
3237231Z US <Equity> CN  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rob Waters  in San Francisco at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pathway Genomics Corp. Consumer Genetics  
                       
                         
                           Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A technician tests DNA samples at Pathway Genomics Corp. The company is preparing to sell home gene-testing kits. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A technician tests DNA samples at Pathway Genomics Corp. The company is preparing to sell home gene-testing kits. Photographer: Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
