-- Howard Hughes Heirs Battle Mall Owner for Payments
-- Tiffany Kary
-- 2010-07-22T16:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/general-growth-to-resolve-dispute-with-hughes-heirs-through-land-appraisal.html

          
          
             General Growth Properties Inc. , the
second-largest U.S. mall operator, will resolve a dispute with
 Howard Hughes’s  heirs through an appraisal of property in
Nevada, a judge ruled.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper  said today that the
heirs can pursue a full appraisal process without delaying
confirmation of General Growth’s bankruptcy plan in October. The
company and a shareholder committee had asked the court to make
an estimate, saying an appraisal by the heirs might delay
General Growth’s exit from bankruptcy.  
 “We’ll have a number one way or another by October,”
Gropper said in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. “Maybe
we’ll just have a cap, maybe we’ll have a simmering dispute.”  
 The Hughes heirs are owed about half of the value of unsold
property at the  Summerlin  master-planned community near Las
Vegas, which was estimated at $430 million for tax purposes and
given a $1.1 billion book value by Chicago-based General Growth.  
 Steven Hoort , a lawyer for the heirs, said the range of
valuations make an appraisal necessary.  
 “The number the debtors use for development costs -- the
number is huge,” Hoort said. “We would like to probe that
number in discovery.”  
 The roots of the dispute with the Hughes heirs date to
1976, when the billionaire aviator, industrialist and filmmaker
died at 70, childless and without a will. Rouse Co., a mall
owner based in Columbia, Maryland, bought Hughes’s remaining
assets, including about 22,500 acres of Nevada land, in 1996 for
$520 million in cash, stock and assumed debt. The heirs were to
get a portion of profits from future land sales under the
agreement.  
 Rouse Acquisition  
 General Growth  bought  Rouse in 2004 for $11.3 billion and
assumed the obligation to the Hughes heirs, who have received
semi-annual payments from the sale of land developed as part of
the Summerlin project. Under the deal, any land remaining by the
end of 2009 was to be appraised and the heirs paid.  
 Separately, Gropper ruled today that General Growth can
replace its debtor-in-possession financing, which funds
operations while the company reorganizes. The new loan will save
the company $2.7 million a month in interest payments.  
 Gropper also approved General Growth’s motion to auction
property in Clark County, Nevada.  
 General Growth’s initial $400 million loan, dated May 15
2009, will be repaid with the new loan with an interest rate 8
percentage points lower, the company said in court documents.
Barclays Bank Plc is the agent for the new loan, which matures
on May 16 or when the reorganization takes effect, whichever
comes first.  
 New Companies  
 Under General Growth’s proposal to exit Chapter 11, it will
fully repay debt and other claims, raise as much as $8.5 billion
of new capital, and issue stock in two new companies to current
shareholders.  
 The company’s exit from bankruptcy is being financed by
Brookfield Asset Management Inc., Fairholme Capital Management
LLC and Pershing Square Capital Management LLC. General Growth
has already won court approval to restructure $15 billion of
secured debt tied to 144 properties.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The company
had amassed a $27 billion debt load while making acquisitions.
It expects to remain the second-largest mall owner in the U.S.,
with 180 properties in 43 states.  
 The two new General Growth companies will divide the
assets, with the larger one keeping the name and most of the
malls.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tiffany Kary  in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        