-- German Bonds Rise as Bernanke Pessimism Outweighs European Economy Growth
-- Matthew Brown
-- 2010-07-22T14:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/german-bonds-rise-as-stocks-decline-ahead-of-european-economic-reports.html

          
          
             German two-year government note
yields held near the lowest level in more than a week after U.S.
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the economic
outlook is “unusually uncertain.”  
 German 10-year bonds fell as stocks rose on better-than
forecast earnings and reports indicated accelerating euro-region
growth. A  composite index  of euro-area services and
manufacturing rose to 56.7 from 56 in June, Markit Economics
said. Industrial orders unexpectedly increased in May, the
European Union statistics office reported. The Europe Stoxx 600
Index climbed 1.4 percent.  
 “Central bank policymakers are indicating there will be no
rate-hike activity over the next several quarters and that keeps
yields low,” said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  
 Two-year yields fell two basis points to 0.7 percent as of
2:28 p.m. in London. The 0.5 percent security due June 2012 rose
0.035, or 35 euro cents per 1,000-euro ($1,275) face amount, to
99.62. The yields fell to 0.68 percent on July 13. Ten-year
yields rose one basis point to 2.65 percent.  
 German bonds returned 6.6 percent this year, compared with
6.5 percent for U.S. Treasuries and 5.8 percent for U.K. gilts,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit.  
 The Fed’s near-zero interest rates and record balance sheet
are already “very stimulative,” Bernanke said yesterday in
Senate testimony. He outlined possible options “if the recovery
seems to be faltering,” including amplifying the commitment to
low borrowing costs, while cautioning that officials haven’t
fully reviewed the measures.  
 Industrial Orders  
 While Bernanke left the door open to additional steps, he
said nothing would happen in the “near term.”  
 Industrial orders in the 16-nation euro area rose 3.8
percent from April, when they gained 0.6 percent, the EU said.
Economists had forecast orders to drop 0.1 percent, the median
of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year,
industrial orders jumped 22.7 percent.  
 A report from the Ifo institute in Munich tomorrow is
expected to say German  business confidence  fell from a two-year
high in July. The business climate index declined to 101.5 from
101.8 in June, according to the median of 41 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  
 After crafting a rescue package worth almost $1 trillion to
ward off speculators betting on a break-up of the euro region,
the EU plans to publish results of bank stress tests tomorrow to
show they can withstand the fallout from the Greek-led turmoil.  
 Positive Factors  
 “The positive bond factors look by far the more durable,”
 Sean Maloney , a fixed-income strategist at Nomura International
Plc in London, wrote in a report today. “We continue to believe
that buy on dips strategies are the most prudent course.”  
 Europe’s largest banks may give breakdowns of their
sovereign-debt holdings when they release the stress-test
results, according to a document from the Committee of European
Banking Supervisors.  
 European regulators asked the region’s biggest banks to
publish a list of each lender’s gross and net exposure to
central and local governments in 30 countries in the region,
including Greece, Spain, Ireland, Italy and Portugal, according
to a confidential draft template obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 The yields on so-called peripheral euro-region nation bonds
rose relative to benchmark German bunds today. The difference in
yield, or spread, between Spanish and German 10-year bonds
widened three basis points to 171 basis points, while the
 Portuguese-German spread  grew six basis points to 288 basis
points.  
 ‘Rich’ Spanish Bonds  
 Spanish bonds are “increasingly rich” when compared with
other euro-region peripheral markets, and investor should favor
Italian securities, Citigroup Inc. said.  
 “Spain has been one of the main beneficiaries of the
improved market sentiment toward peripheral market debt,”
 Steven Mansell , director of interest-rate strategy at Citigroup
in London, wrote in a report today. “We see value in fading the
recent tightening” in Spanish spreads and adopting a long
position on 30-year Italian securities relative to Spanish paper
is an “obvious candidate” to achieve that, he said.  
 Spanish 30-year bonds yielded 18 basis points more than
similar-maturity Italian securities today, down from 76 basis
points on June 16, according to Bloomberg generic prices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        