-- German Tax Evasion Resurfaces With Report of Liechtenstein Bank-Disk Offer
-- Holger Elfes
-- 2010-07-22T10:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/german-tax-evasion-resurfaces-with-report-of-liechtenstein-bank-disk-offer.html

          
          
             The German government may be about
to step up its pursuit of tax evaders amid reports that a new CD
containing stolen bank data has been offered for sale to state
authorities.  
 Schleswig-Holstein, the most northerly of Germany’s 16
states, is in talks with an unidentified source to buy the CD
containing details of “hundreds” of people with money hidden
in a bank in Liechtenstein, the  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported
today, without saying where it got the information. The data
relates to accounts worth 500 million euros ($641 million) at
 Liechtensteinische Landesbank , the Munich-based newspaper said.  
 Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government recouped 200 million
euros in back taxes from a disk with data from Liechtenstein
purchased in 2008, and has bought further CDs with details of
tax evasion involving accounts in Switzerland. The latest CD is
at least the seventh to be offered to German authorities and
Schleswig-Holstein will probably buy it, the Sueddeutsche said.  
 Cyrill Sele , a spokesman for  Liechtensteinische Landesbank ,
called the report “speculation.” Speaking by phone from the
capital Vaduz today, he said the bank has no information
regarding a stolen CD and declined to comment further. The state
government in Schleswig-Holstein won’t comment on the report,
“neither to confirm nor deny it,” Torsten Borchers, a
spokesman for the state’s Finance Ministry, said in an e-mail.  
 Germany’s government has ruffled relations with Switzerland
and Liechtenstein and upset members of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union party over the purchase of tax information from
thieves.  Stefan Mappus , the CDU prime minister of Baden-
Wuerttemberg, turned down a disk offered to the state in
February, saying the purchase was legally risky.  
 Another state, Lower Saxony, bought the disk last month,
sharing the reported cost of 185,000 euros with the federal
government in Berlin. The Finance Ministry said it contained
information on about 20,000 Swiss bank accounts. Lower Saxony
expects to reap tax revenue from the CD in the “double-digit
millions” of euros, Deutsche Presse-Agentur reported.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Holger Elfes  in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net ;
 Patrick Donahue  in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        