-- German Business Confidence May Decline Before Stress-Test Results Come Out
-- Simon Berberich
-- 2010-07-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/german-business-confidence-may-decline-before-stress-test-results-come-out.html

          
          
             German business confidence probably
fell in July as the global recovery showed signs of slowing and
concern about the health of Europe’s banks grew.  
 The  Ifo institute  will say its  business climate index ,
based on a survey of 7,000 executives, eased to 101.5 from a
two-year high of 101.8 in June, according to the median of 41
forecasts in a Bloomberg News  survey . Ifo releases the report at
10 a.m. in Munich today.  
 European governments’ efforts to trim budget deficits may
damp economic growth across the 16-nation euro area, and
investors are concerned that the results of bank stress tests,
due to be published today, will weigh on market sentiment. At
the same time, latest data suggest Germany’s recovery gathered
pace in the second quarter as exports boomed and factories
stepped up production.  
 “German industry is firing on all cylinders,” said
 Andreas Scheuerle , an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt.
“Growth will slow down temporarily toward the end of the year,
but we rule out a double-dip recession.”  
 Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations will decline to
101.6 from 102.4, the survey of economists shows. The gauge of
the current situation may increase to 101.8 from 101.1.  
 The Bundesbank on June 11 raised its growth forecasts for
Europe’s largest economy, predicting expansion of 1.9 percent
this year and 1.4 percent in 2011, up from 1.6 percent and 1.2
percent respectively. The economy contracted 4.9 percent last
year, the most since World War II.  
 Stress Tests  
 European regulators are testing 91 banks to examine whether
they can withstand a shrinking economy and a drop in government-
bond values. Governments are counting on the tests on firms
including Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG  to reassure investors
about the strength of the financial system and the amount of
state support lenders may need. The results are due to be
published at 6 p.m. today Frankfurt time.  
 “Major failures would be a surprise,” said  Rainer Guntermann , an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“Stress tests are likely to be a signal for confidence.”  
 Growth in Europe’s  services and manufacturing   industries 
unexpectedly accelerated in July as concern over the European
sovereign-debt crisis eased. European consumer confidence also
improved this month and  industrial orders  rose in May, data
released yesterday showed.  
 Carmakers Prosper  
 Germany’s  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest
luxury carmaker, on July 13 raised its 2010 sales and earnings
forecast. Its rival  Daimler AG , the second-largest luxury car
manufacturer, increased its full-year forecast last week after
second-quarter profit beat analysts’ estimates.  
 Volkswagen AG ’s Audi luxury division said on July 8 that
sales rose 8.7 percent last month, led by growth in China, the
U.S. and the U.K.  
 German exports surged 9.2 percent in May and unemployment
fell in June.      European stocks  rallied yesterday as latest
reports assuaged concerns that the recovery will lose momentum.  
 Still, Germany’s benchmark  DAX share index  has dropped 3
percent in the past month and  investor confidence  declined for a
third straight month in July.  Factory orders  unexpectedly fell
for the first time in five months in May.  
 “Not all traffic lights are green,” said Guntermann.
“There are risks.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Berberich  in Frankfurt at 
 sberberich@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Bayerischen Motoren Werke AG chief executive officer Norbert Reithofer. Photographer: Guenter Schiffmann/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
