-- Gilead, Sperian, Skadden, Lockheed, Tata-Greenpeace: Intellectual Property
-- Victoria Slind-Flor
-- 2010-07-22T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/gilead-sperian-skadden-lockheed-tata-greenpeace-intellectual-property.html

          
          
             Gilead Sciences Inc. ,  Merck & Co. 
and  Johnson & Johnson  are in talks to license their patented
AIDS treatments to generic-drug makers in developing nations, a
Geneva-based health funding agency said.  
 The three companies have had conversations with the agency,
known as  Unitaid , about making the licenses available through a
so-called patent pool, said Ellen ‘t Hoen, Unitaid’s senior
adviser on intellectual property.  
 The pool would be a central point through which companies
such as Gilead could allow makers of copycat pills to market the
drugs in poorer nations. It would help coordinate agreements on
combination pills that include drugs made by different
companies, ‘t Hoen said. The initiative would be the first pool
for HIV medicines, following the success of similar programs for
agriculture and information technology, Unitaid said.  
 “We’re talking about the how rather than the whether” the
companies will participate, ‘t Hoen said in an interview at the
 International AIDS Conference  in Vienna yesterday.  
 The pool “is an important initiative and Gilead is
actively participating in discussions about how this kind of
innovative approach will move forward,” Cara Miller, a
spokeswoman for the Foster City, California-based drugmaker,
said in an e-mail.  
 A spokesman for Merck of Whitehouse Station, New Jersey,
and a spokeswoman for New Brunswick, New Jersey-based Johnson &
Johnson didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc said last week that it will give
licenses to generic-drug makers in poor countries to produce the
HIV medicines it makes in a joint venture with  Pfizer Inc.  The
policy extends to 69 of the world’s least developed countries,
where 80 percent of all people with HIV live, the London-based
drugmaker said.  
 A Glaxo spokeswoman didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment today on Unitaid’s patent pool.  
 Research on HIV drugs made by Gilead, Pfizer, Glaxo, Merck,
Johnson & Johnson, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH are to be presented at the AIDS conference today.  
 Sperian Sued, Accused of Infringing Safety Glasses Patent  
 Sperian Protection , a French maker of safety equipment, was
sued for patent infringement by a Massachusetts-based
manufacturer of glasses and other eyewear products.  
 Hilsinger Co. claims products made and sold by Sperian
infringe a patent for glasses with removable lenses. Hilsinger’s
patent 6,227,665, which was issued in May 2001, is for sport
glasses with a plastic frame and lens-receiving sections.  
 Hilsinger asked the court to order all Sperian units to
quit selling the allegedly infringing products and to remove
them from the Internet, catalogs and retail stores. It also
seeks a recall -- including from customers -- of all infringing
products.  
 The Plainville, Massachusetts-based company requested
awards of litigation costs, attorney fees and money damages and
asked that the damages be tripled to punish Sperian for what
Hilsinger says is willful infringement.  
 Hilsinger is represented by  Christine K. Bush ,  Craig M.
Scott  and  Thomas Connolly  of  Scott Bush Ltd.  of Providence,
Rhode Island.  
 The case is Hilsinger Co. v. Sperian Eye & Face Protection
Inc., 1:10-cv-00302, ML-LDA, U.S. District Court, District of
Rhode Island (Providence).  
 Mattel Gets Patent for Doll With Moveable, Alterable Features  
 Mattel Inc. , the world’s biggest toymaker, received a
patent for a doll with features that can be altered.  
 Patent 7,744,442, one of  5,072 U.S. patents  issued July 20,
covers a doll with mechanisms that can alter its cheek, eye
position and mouth opening by moving levers. The doll’s face
could also be changed by manipulating its torso, such as
pressing the doll’s stomach to make it smile.  
 According to the patent, the mechanisms can be engaged if
the doll is upright or in a laid-back position, such as being
cradled in the user’s arms. The doll can also contain a sound
generator that will output various sounds depending on how the
face is altered.  
 Mattel presently offers “ Little Mommy Baby Ah-Choo ,” a
doll that sneezes when its stomach is squeezed.  
 El Segundo, California-based Mattel applied for the patent
in June 2008 with the assistance of  Kolisch Hartwell PC  of
Portland, Oregon.  
 For more patent news, click here.  
 Copyright  
 Skadden Added as Defendant in Baseball-Song Infringement Suit  
 A Boston-based musician whose original copyright-
infringement case against  Time Warner Inc. , Turner Broadcasting
System and Major League Baseball was tossed out in August, re-
filed the case and added a New York law firm to the list of
defendants.  
 Samuel Bartley Steele filed a copyright-infringement suit
in federal court in Boston in October 2008, claiming his song
“Man I Love This Town” was infringed by a commercial for Major
League Baseball. The allegedly offending commercial used Bon
Jovi’s “I Love This Town” as a sound track.  
 Judge Nathaniel Gorton, in his Aug. 19 ruling, said the two
songs “display little lyrical similarity” and the “common
expressions and cliches” in Steel’s songs weren’t protected by
copyright law. Steele filed an appeal in November.  
 He filed his new complaint in Boston federal court July 20
and added New York’s  Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP  as a
defendant. Steele said that Skadden, which represented the
defendants in the original case, has failed to provide him, his
lawyers or the appeals court “a copy of the unaltered true and
correct version” of the commercial he says infringed.  
 He also claimed the firm, together with the other
defendants, intentionally removed copyright-management
information from the commercial.  
 Steele is represented by Christopher A.D. Hunt from the
Hunt Law Firm LLC of Hopedale, Massachusetts.  
 The new case is Steele v. Bongiovi, 1:10-cv-11218, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston). The initial
case is Steele v. Turner Broadcasting System Inc., 1:08-cv-
11727-NMG, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston). The appeal is Steele v. Turner Broadcasting System,
09-2571, 1st U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals (Boston).  
 For more copyright news, click here.  
 Trademark  
 Lochkeed Warns Fly-Rod Maker Not to Use ‘Skunk Works’ Mark  
 Lockheed Martin Corp. , the world’s largest defense
contractor, has told a maker of bamboo rods used for fly-fishing
that his website infringes the company’s trademark.  
 Sections of a letter from counsel for Lockheed are posted
on the Trout Underground blog site. In the letter, sent by  Lynne
Boisineau  of Chicago’s  McDermott Will & Emery , the fishing-rod
maker was told his choice of skunkworksflyrods.com as a domain
name  “is in bad faith and is an attempt to profit off the
goodwill of the Skunk Works trademark” and the misdirect the
“unwitting public” away from the defense contractor’s official
 Skunk Works website .  
 The term had its origins in a “ L’il Abner ” comic strip by
the late  Al Capp , who used “skonk works” as a name for an
illegal still in the swampy backwoods of Dogpatch, an imaginary
town.  
 According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Lockheed first registered “skunk works” as a trademark
in July 1981. The mark is registered for use with “engineering
technical consulting, and advisory services with respect to
designing, building, equipping, and testing commercial and
military aircraft and related equipment.”  
 In November 2001 Lockheed added another registration for
the mark, to be used with games, sporting articles and stuffed
animals.  
 The conflict with the fishing-gear maker isn’t the first
time Lockheed has tried to keep others from using the mark. In
the U.K., the Bethesda, Maryland-based company tried to block a
company with the “in the Leaf we trust” motto from using
www.ukskunkworks.co.uk from selling marijuana seeds and
paraphernalia.  
 In that appeal, U.K. Skunkworks Ltd. claimed Lockheed “has
used its size, resources and financial position to employ
“bullyboy tactics” against a small company.  
 The  Internet registry panel for .UK domain names  said in an
 April 2007 decision  that the U.K. company was carrying on a
“genuine business,” and noted that “skunk” is sometimes used
for a particular strain of cannabis.  
 The fear of negative associations could cut both ways, the
panel said, noting that while the defense contractor may not
want people to assume a connection with a marijuana-related
business, “many people have as little a wish to be associated
with military aircraft” as Lockheed does with illegal drug use.
“The risk of ‘contamination by association’ therefore seems
low,” the panel said.  
 Additionally, the panel noted that in Bill Gates’
autobiography, he implemented a skunkworks at  Microsoft Corp. 
“Through a social process, the term ‘skunk works’ has clearly
passed into general language,” the panel said, ruling that the
U.K. company’s domain name “be left undisturbed.”  
 Tata Sues Greenpeace, Says ‘Turtle v. Tata’ Infringes Marks  
 Tata Sons Ltd., the holding company for India’s Tata Group,
sued Greenpeace for trademark infringement in the Delhi High
Court, India’s Financial Express  reported .  
 The suit is related to Greenpeace’s online game  Turtle v.
Tata , in which colored balls allegedly bearing Tata’s trademark
without authorization annihilate a sea turtle, according to the
Financial Express.  
 Amsterdam-based  Greenpeace International , an environmental
advocacy group, created the game to focus public attention on a
deepwater port Tata is constructing at Orissa, India, that the
group says endangers Olive Ridley Sea Turtles, the Financial
Express reported.  
 Tata, which is represented by  Anand & Andand  of New Delhi,
claims the game infringes and makes disparaging and libelous
references to the company, according to the newspaper.  
 Ozzy Osbourne , Tony Iommi Settle Black Sabbath Name Dispute  
 A trademark dispute over ownership of the Black Sabbath
band name has been settled, according to court filings.  
 John “Ozzy” Osbourne sued  Anthony Iommi  in federal court
in Manhattan in May 2009 for trademark infringement. Osbourne
asked the court to declare that he was co-owner of the mark, and
for an award of the profits Iommi received from his alleged
infringement.  
 Iommi was also a founding member of Black Sabbath.  
 Terms of the settlement weren’t disclosed in court filings.
According to court documents, each party will pay its own
litigation costs and attorney fees.  
 Osbourne is represented by  Mimi Kristin Rupp  and  Howard
Jeffrey Shire  of New York’s  Kenyon & Kenyon LLP . Iommi was
represented by  Amin S. Kassam  and  Joseph Vecchione DeMarco  of
New York’s  DeVore & DeMarco LLP .  
 The case is John Osbourne v. Anthony Iommi, 1:09-cv-
0949747-JGK, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 For more trademark news, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Victoria Slind-Flor  in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        