-- Gillard Will Toughen Rules on New Coal Plants as Part of Climate Policy
-- Gemma Daley
-- 2010-07-22T23:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/gillard-plans-citizens-assembly-on-carbon-trading-proposals-wong-says.html

          
          
             Australia’s government will set up a
citizen’s assembly to build consensus on putting a price on
carbon and will today outline plans on renewable energy and
power generation, Climate Change Minister  Penny Wong  said.  
 Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , leading the opposition
Liberal-National coalition in opinion polls before the Aug. 21
election, will make a policy speech on climate change in
Brisbane at 9 a.m. local time.  Tony Abbott ’s coalition opposes
putting a price on carbon.  
 “The prime minister will announce a citizens’ assembly,”
Wong told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio today. “We will
be making a range of announcements, including some today on the
power generation sector as well as renewable energy.”  
 Gillard replaced  Kevin Rudd  as leader on June 24 after a
slump in voter support to election-losing levels. Rudd shelved
his carbon-trading plans in April because of a lack of action by
other countries and opposition in the upper house Senate to
proposed laws. The pledge to act on climate change was a
mainstay of Labor’s election victory in 2007.  
 The Greens Party, which may hold the balance of power in
the upper house Senate after the election, wants Gillard to put
a price on carbon next year and then introduce an emissions-
trading system.  
 ‘Cop-Out’  
 “This government policy is a cop-out,” Australian Greens
Senator  Christine Milne  told ABC radio today. “We want a carbon
price now and support a move to an emissions trading scheme.”  
 Gillard’s proposal is “completely meaningless,” Richard
Denniss, executive director of the Australia Institute in the
Crawford School of Economics and Government at the Canberra-
based Australian National University, told ABC radio today.
“The economy can handle a price on carbon.”  
 Rudd’s climate plan would have taxed companies with high
emissions like energy, steel and cement makers and offset the
charges with free emissions permits and financial compensation.
The assistance package would have cost the government A$20
billion ($17.9 billion), the Grattan Institute, a Melbourne-
based think-tank, said in a report on April 22.  
 Australia needs “deep consensus” before taking action,
Wong said. “This will transform our economy for decades to
come.”  
 Gillard will give heavy industries, including steel and
aluminium, incentives to cut emissions before an emissions
trading program is introduced, the Australian Financial Review
said today. A so-called early choice initiative would allow the
trade exposed industries to be assessed on their 2007 emissions,
the newspaper reported without saying where it obtained the
information.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Marion Rae  in Canberra at 
 mrae3@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        