-- GM Agrees to Buy Lender AmeriCredit for $3.5 Billion
-- David Welch
-- 2010-07-22T21:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/gm-agrees-to-buy-lender-americredit-for-3-5-billion.html

          
          
             General Motors Co., the automaker 61
percent owned by the U.S., is buying subprime lender AmeriCredit
Corp. for $3.5 billion to help it reach more customers with
leases and loans to borrowers with faulty credit records.  
 The price of $24.50 a share is 24 percent more than Fort
Worth, Texas-based AmeriCredit’s closing price yesterday of
$19.70 a share in New York Stock Exchange composite  trading .
AmeriCredit rose to $23.91 at 4 p.m.  
 “This helps GM finance less-than-perfect-credit buyers
and God knows there’s plenty of them today with economic
conditions as they are,” said  Joe Phillippi , principal of
AutoTrends, a consulting firm in Short Hills, New Jersey. “A
lot of people in the vast heartland of this country don’t have
particularly great credit histories and that region has been the
core of GM’s strength.”  
 GM had considered buying back its former lending arm, GMAC
LLC, starting a bank or working with outside lenders to offer
customers more financing options, three people with knowledge of
the discussions said this month. Buying GMAC, now called  Ally
Financial Inc. , or starting an in-house banking unit proved too
difficult at that point, they said.  
 As long as GM is majority-owned by the U.S., it shouldn’t
be in the subprime lending business, said John Berlau, a policy
director at the Washington-based Competitive Enterprise
Institute, which promotes limited government.  
 “When we bailed out GM, what were we bailing out?” Berlau
said. “The rationale behind the financial-regulatory bill that
just passed was that subprime lending was bad, but the
government’s in the subprime business.”  
 More Competitive  
 Chief Executive Officer  Ed Whitacre  had wanted to buy or
start a lending arm before a fourth-quarter initial public
offering, people familiar with the matter said in May. The
automaker had decided a deal couldn’t be reached in that time
frame, people with direct knowledge said earlier this month.  
 “Adding AmeriCredit to our team will improve our
competitiveness in auto financing offerings,” Whitacre said in
a statement.  
 The purchase fits with Whitacre’s plan to sell more cars
and get maximum value for GM’s IPO, said  Rebecca Lindland , an
analyst at IHS Global Insight Inc. in Lexington, Massachusetts.  
 “It’s a really good piece to a very complex puzzle,” she
said. “This makes a lot of sense.”  
 While the deal will help GM dealers sell more small,
affordable cars to subprime customers, “it won’t be a blank
check” to buyers because the U.S. government will be
scrutinizing lending, she said.  
 Less Leasing  
 The automaker gets about 4 percent of its sales from
subprime borrowers, Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell  said
when revealing the acquisition in a briefing today at GM
headquarters in Detroit. The company sells 7 percent of its cars
through leasing programs, compared with 21 percent for the
industry, he said. Liddell said GM can increase sales by
boosting penetration into both financing options.  
 “When you look at the population, about 40 percent falls
into non-prime,” Liddell said. “We think it will help. Four
percent of our sales are to non-prime customers. If you just hit
a modest increase from 4 to 5 percent, it’s a significant
number.”  
 GM will continue to work with other lenders and AmeriCredit
will provide a “single-digit” percentage of GM’s financing,
Liddell said.  
 Other Banks  
 “We’re still working actively with other banks,”
Liddell said. “This is not going to be the only solution. There
are multiple ways of solving various financing solutions. This
is non-prime and leasing, a more targeted part of the market.”  
 AmeriCredit, which focuses of buyers with credit scores of
500 to 650, will continue to do business with non-GM dealers,
CEO  Daniel Berce  said on a conference call.  
 GM has worked with AmeriCredit since September 2009,
boosting its penetration into the subprime consumer market,
Liddell said. Since the relationship had worked well, the two
companies started talking a month ago about expanding it and the
conversation evolved into talk of an acquisition, Liddell said.  
 GM and Americredit reached a definitive agreement, which
has been approved by the boards of both companies. GM said the
deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter.  
 “It came together very quickly,” he said.  
 The acquisition should help dealers sell more cars and
trucks, said Mike  Jackson , CEO of AutoNation Inc., the top
retailer of GM vehicles in the U.S.  
 “This will help GM improve their sales 10 to 15 percent,”
he said in an e-mail. “We see this as a boost to our GM
business.”  
 IPO Plans  
 GM plans to file a prospectus next month and sell the
shares in November if market conditions permit, two people
familiar with the situation have said. The company plans to sell
20 percent of Treasury’s stake, which would reduce the
government’s ownership to less than 50 percent, said two people
familiar with the plan.  
 The sale will probably raise $10 billion to $15 billion,
depending on the company’s performance, the strength of the
economy and the health of the IPO market, people familiar with
the plan said in June.  
 Acquiring a lender will also help GM attract investors for
its planned initial public offering of stock, Phillippi said.  
 “It should help with the IPO as part of the pitch” to
investors, Phillippi said. “It answers one of the obvious
questions about how you’re going to do more leasing and sub-
prime lending without relying on outside sources.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     “Adding AmeriCredit to our team will improve our competitiveness in auto financing offerings,” GM CEO Ed Whitacre said in a statement. Photographer: Steven Noreyko/General Motors Co. via Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Chris Liddell, vice chairman and chief financial officer of General Motors Co., talks about the automaker's agreement to buy subprime lender AmeriCredit Corp. for $3.5 billion.
     GM is 61 percent owned by the U.S. Liddell speaks with Betty Liu and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." Mario Gabelli, chief executive officer of Gamco Investors Inc., also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
