-- Goldman Sachs Said to Give AIG-Hedging List to Investigators
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-23T12:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/goldman-sachs-said-to-name-counterparties-on-aig-hedges-for-u-s-panels.html

          
          
             Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  told U.S.
investigators which counterparties it used to hedge the risk
that  American International Group Inc.  would fail, according to
three people with knowledge of the matter.  
 The list was sought by panels reviewing the beneficiaries
of New York-based AIG’s $182.3 billion government bailout, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
information is private. Goldman Sachs, which received $12.9
billion after the 2008 rescue tied to contracts with the
insurer, has said it didn’t need AIG to be rescued because it
was hedged against the firm’s failure.  
 “We want to know the identity of those parties, partly
just to know where American taxpayer dollars went, but partly to
assess Goldman’s claim,” said  Elizabeth Warren , chairman of the
Congressional Oversight Panel, in a Senate hearing this week.
“We cannot evaluate the credibility of their claim that they
had nothing at stake one way or the other in the AIG bailout.”  
 Warren’s panel and the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission,
both of which are reviewing the use of taxpayer funds in
financial bailouts, received the data from New York-based
Goldman Sachs, the people said. Goldman Sachs had rebuffed a May
request from the Congressional Oversight Panel for the names of
counterparties, according to a document provided to lawmakers.  
 Goldman Sachs has provided data to Warren’s panel and “to
the extent that they have other questions, we are more than
happy to provide them with the information,”  Lucas van Praag , a
Goldman Sachs spokesman, said yesterday in a statement. “We
reached out to them” earlier this week, he said.  
 ‘A Welcome Change’  
 Peter Jackson , a spokesman for the oversight panel, said
that Goldman Sachs’s “apparent willingness to cooperate fully
is a welcome change from their previous unwillingness to
disclose details of the taxpayer assistance they received.”  
 AIG’s rescue was designed to prevent a wider financial
collapse. Banks including Goldman Sachs, Societe Generale SA and
Deutsche Bank AG bought $62.1 billion in insurance on mortgage-
linked securities from AIG. To protect itself, Goldman Sachs
bought  credit-default swaps  that would’ve paid out in the event
of an AIG bankruptcy, Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer
 David Viniar  has said.  
 When asked in March 2009 which firms sold Goldman Sachs the
protection, Viniar said it was “really all of the large
financial institutions” in and outside the U.S.  
 Goldman Sachs had $10 billion of exposure to AIG when the
insurer was rescued in September 2008, offset by $7.5 billion of
collateral and swaps, Viniar said. The hedges were one reason
that Goldman wouldn’t accept anything less than full payment on
the guarantees it purchased from AIG, he said.  
 Backdoor Bailout  
 The AIG rescue has been called a “backdoor bailout” of
financial firms because banks were fully reimbursed on $62.1
billion in securities that had plunged in value.  
 Goldman Sachs provided the information to the Congressional
Oversight Panel after the Senate Finance committee took up the
cause this week, said a person with knowledge of the events.
Lawmakers should use a subpoena to compel Goldman Sachs, if
needed, Senator  Charles Grassley  said at a July 21 hearing.  
 “Why shouldn’t the public know who these ultimate
beneficiaries of taxpayers’ support actually are?” Grassley
said.  
 ‘Working With Goldman’  
 The Iowa Republican’s office is “working with Goldman
Sachs and the Congressional Oversight Panel to resolve the
issue,” said  Jill Kozeny , a spokeswoman Grassley, in an e-mail
statement.  
 Congress created the oversight panel in 2008 to oversee
Treasury Department activities in stabilizing the economy and
the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program.  
 Goldman Sachs agreed last week to pay $550 million to
settle U.S. regulatory claims it misled investors in
collateralized debt obligations linked to subprime mortgages.  
 The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s internal
watchdog said this week he will expand his probe into whether
politics drove the agency lawsuit against the bank to include
the timing behind the settlement. The SEC announced the
settlement two hours after the Senate approved legislation
overhauling financial regulation. The expansion of the probe by
SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz  followed a request by U.S.
Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hugh Son  in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Charles Grassley, a Republican from Iowa. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. Representative Darrell Issa talks about the timing of the Securities and Exchange Commission's lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and subsequent $550 million settlement with the firm.
     SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz, in response to a request from Issa, said he will expand his probe on whether politics prompted the lawsuit to include the agency's July 15 settlement accord. Issa speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt talks about the timing of the SEC's lawsuit against and subsequent settlement with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
     Levitt speaks with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television's "InsideTrack." Levitt, an adviser to the Carlyle Group and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., is a board member of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

 
     
         Audio Download:  Hintz Sees `Quicker Recovery' for Goldman Versus Morgan 
     
         

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
