-- Bonds Top Mexican Stocks by Most Since 2005 on Record Consumer Price Drop
-- Jonathan Roeder
-- 2010-07-22T21:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/government-bonds-top-stocks-by-record-in-mexico-on-consumer-price-declines.html

          
          
             Mexico’s government bonds are
beating stocks by the most in at least five years amid a record
decline in consumer prices and concern economic growth will slow
in the U.S., the nation’s biggest export market.  
 An index of Mexican  government debt  has climbed 11 percent
this year, compared with a 1.9 percent gain for the IPC stock
index over the same period. The difference is the biggest since
at least 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Yields on Mexico’s benchmark 10 percent bonds due in 2024
will extend their decline to an all-time low after inflation
fell to within the central bank’s target range the past two
months, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist for
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Mexico City. JPMorgan equity strategists
cut Mexican stocks to “neutral” from “overweight” last week,
saying the economy will be hurt by the stalling U.S. recovery.  
 “Investors are looking for good returns, in markets with
low risk and high liquidity,” Casillas said. “It’s very
difficult to find those three factors right now somewhere other
than Mexico bonds.”  
 A reduction in consumer spending in the U.S., the buyer of
80 percent of Mexico’s exports, is sparking concern among
analysts that growth in earnings and shares will falter.  Sales 
at U.S. retailers slid for a second month in June, manufacturing
contracted by the most in a year and housing starts fell to the
lowest level since October, signs the economic expansion is
weakening.  
 Rate Forecasts  
 “If it’s worse than expected, obviously there would be
repercussions in certain industries in Mexico,” said  Rogelio Gallegos , who manages $500 million of stocks at Corp. Actinver
SAB in Mexico City.  
 Mexico’s central bank will leave its main interest rate
unchanged until April 2011 to keep the economic rebound from
stalling, according to the median estimate of analysts in a July
20 survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. That’s higher than a
range of zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S., 1 percent in the euro
region and 0.1 percent in Japan. Mexican consumer prices dropped
for a third month in June, the longest streak since at least
1973, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Investors will buy more Mexican bonds in anticipation of
their addition to Citigroup’s World Government Bond Index in
October, Casillas said. Inclusion in the measure, which would
require fund managers tracking it to buy the bonds, may lure
funds to Mexican debt, he said.  
 Bond Yields  
 Mexico’s benchmark bond yield has dropped 142 basis points,
or 1.42 percentage points, to 6.85 percent this year and will
fall to 6.5 percent by January,  Alonso Madero , who helps manage
about 66 billion pesos ($5.1 billion) at Actinver, said in a
July 7 interview. The yield was little changed today, according
to Banco Santander SA.  
 “The Mexican equity market lacks a driver, while the debt
market keeps luring international investors,”  Arnulfo Rodriguez , head of fixed income at Banamex, said in a telephone
interview on July 12. “Foreigners are still pouring money in
the long and medium part of the curve.”  
 While the  IPC index  has underperformed bonds this year, it
has beaten the 4.1 percent drop for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa
index. The IPC index trades at 16 times reported earnings,
compared with 13 times for the  Bovespa , the biggest premium in
more than a year, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. Brazil’s economy will grow 6.6 percent this year,
more than the 4.4 percent expansion in Mexico, according to the
median estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
 Valuations  
 The IPC index rose 1.9 percent to 32,720.76 today, while
the Bovespa gained 2 percent to 65,748.10.  
 “It will be significantly more difficult for Mexico to
outperform,”  Matthew Hickman , head of Latin America research
for Citigroup, wrote in a research report on July 12. He cut his
rating on Mexican stocks to “underweight” from “overweight,”
citing valuations and concern the U.S. recovery will flounder.
“With leading indicators rolling over in the U.S., exports to
the U.S. will slow, and there is no sign of the Mexican consumer
taking up the slack,” he said.  
 An e-mail and two phone messages left for Hickman seeking
comment were not returned.  
 Earnings Growth  
 Citigroup forecasts the IPC index will climb to 35,000 by
year-end, a 9 percent  gain  from yesterday’s close.  
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. also cut its rating on Mexican stocks,
to “neutral” from “overweight,” according to a July 15
report by analysts including  Ben Laidler , who cited the
weakening U.S. recovery. An e-mail and phone message for Laidler
seeking comment were not returned.  
 Urban Larson , who helps manage $2 billion in emerging-
market stocks for F&C Management Ltd. in London, said he is
overweight Mexican shares and predicted they will rally.  
 “There are some more cyclical stocks in that index and
they should see an acceleration of earnings growth in the second
half,” Larson said.  
 Economists have raised forecasts for Mexican growth on
speculation the nation’s manufacturers will benefit from revived
U.S. demand for goods from refrigerators to cars, boosting
Mexican employment, incomes and consumption. Mexico’s  gross
domestic product  will expand 4.4 percent this year, up from a
3.3 percent projection in January, as it recovers from the
deepest recession since 1932, according to the average estimate
of economists in a Banco de Mexico survey published July 1.  
 That outlook would be threatened should U.S. spending
continue to slow, Actinver’s Gallegos said. Actinver forecasts
the IPC index will climb 12 percent from yesterday’s close to
36,000 by year-end.  
 “We’ve recommended to clients they be more conservative
with their portfolios and their positions,” he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andres R. Martinez  in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        