-- GM Draws Washington Scrutiny Over Purchase of Subprime Lender
-- David Welch
-- 2010-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/grassley-seeks-probe-of-gm-s-3-5-billion-bid-for-auto-lender-americredit.html

          
          
             General Motors Co., the automaker 61
percent owned by the U.S. Treasury, is facing criticism over its
decision to pay $3.5 billion to buy a lender that specializes in
auto loans to shoppers with less than top-notch credit.  
 While GM plans to use its new lending arm to write auto
leases and provide a “modest” boost in subprime loans, U.S.
Senator  Chuck Grassley  asked the watchdog of the government’s
bank-rescue program to investigate the purchase. And a member of
a think tank questioned the wisdom of a company that is
majority-owned by the government lending money to people with
poor credit after a financial crisis was sparked by risky loans.  
 “If GM has $3.5 billion in cash to buy a financial
institution, it seems like it should have paid back taxpayers
first,” Grassley, a Republican from Iowa, said in a  statement 
on his website. “After GM’s experience with GMAC, which left GM
seeking a taxpayer bailout, you have to think the company and,
in turn, the taxpayers would be better off if GM focused on
making cars that people want to buy and stayed clear of
repeating its effort to make high-risk car loans.”  
 GM and Fort Worth, Texas-based  AmeriCredit Corp.  announced
the deal yesterday that is intended to help the automaker sell
to more customers with damaged credit ratings or who want to
lease a new vehicle.  
 AmeriCredit is also profitable. It has made money in nine
of the last 10 years, earning $1.8 billion. The purchase will be
made with some of the $30 billion in cash GM has on hand, said
Chief Financial Officer  Chris Liddell , who called the deal a
“building block” toward an initial public offering.  
 GMAC Losses  
 GM’s former lending arm, now known as  Ally Financial Inc. ,
lost $16.5 billion in its mortgage business from 2007 to 2009.
GM sold 51 percent of Detroit-based GMAC to private-equity firm
Cerberus Capital Management LP in November 2006 as the nation’s
biggest automaker ran low on cash. Since then, GM has had to
rely on outside lenders, including Ally, which is 56 percent
owned by the U.S.  
 “The thing that brought down GMAC was its ResCap subprime
mortgage business,” said  Joe Phillippi , principal of
AutoTrends, a consulting firm in Short Hills, New Jersey. “But
I think they will manage this smartly. This is going to be
solid, careful measured growth.”  
 As long as GM is majority-owned by the U.S., it shouldn’t
be in subprime lending, said John Berlau, a policy director at
the Washington-based Competitive Enterprise Institute, which
promotes limited government.  
 “When we bailed out GM, what were we bailing out?” Berlau
said. “The rationale behind the financial-regulatory bill that
just passed was that subprime lending was bad, but the
government’s in the subprime business.”  
 Inquiry Requested  
 The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates the
GM bailout will end up costing taxpayers about $30 billion,
Grassley said.  
 “Because taxpayers still have a large stake in GM, I ask
that you conduct an inquiry into the level of due diligence and
analysis that went into GM’s acquisition,” Grassley, the senior
Republican on the Finance Committee, said in a letter yesterday
to  Neil Barofsky , special inspector general of the Troubled
Asset Relief Program.  
 Chief Executive Officer  Ed Whitacre  has been seeking to get
GM into auto retail financing since May, said people familiar
with the company’s plans. Dealers have told GM they were losing
sales for lack of financing options, and the automaker said it
sells 7 percent of its cars with leases, compared with 21
percent for the rest of the industry.  
 GM may increase sales financed with non-prime loans, said
Liddell. The company makes 4 percent of sales to consumers in
that credit grade, the same as the rest of the industry, GM
said. It will continue to work with other lenders and
AmeriCredit will provide a “single-digit” percentage of GM’s
financing, he said.  
 ‘Modest Increase’  
 “When you look at the population, about 40 percent falls
into non-prime,” Liddell said. “We think it will help. Four
percent of our sales are to non-prime customers. If you just hit
a modest increase from 4 to 5 percent, it’s a significant
number.”  
 AmeriCredit, which focuses on buyers with credit scores of
500 to 650, will continue to do business with non-GM dealers,
CEO  Daniel Berce  said on a conference call.  
 The purchase fits Whitacre’s plan to sell more cars and get
maximum value for GM’s IPO, said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at
IHS Automotive in Lexington, Massachusetts.  
 “It’s a really good piece to a very complex puzzle,” she
said. “This makes a lot of sense.”  
 While the acquisition will help GM dealers sell more small,
affordable cars to subprime customers, “it won’t be a blank
check” to buyers because the U.S. government will be
scrutinizing lending, she said.  
 Lending Options  
 GM had considered buying back its former lending unit,
starting a bank or working with outside lenders to offer
customers more financing options, three people with knowledge of
the discussions said this month. Buying GMAC or starting an in-
house unit proved too difficult at that point, they said.  
 Whitacre had wanted to buy or start a lending arm before a
fourth-quarter initial public offering, people familiar with the
matter said in May. The automaker had decided a deal couldn’t be
reached in that time frame, people with direct knowledge said
earlier this month.  
 GM has worked with AmeriCredit since September 2009,
boosting its penetration into the subprime consumer market,
Liddell said. The two companies started talking a month ago
about expanding their relationship and the conversation evolved
into acquisition talks, Liddell said.  
 Sales Boost  
 The acquisition should help dealers sell more cars and
trucks, said Mike Jackson, CEO of  AutoNation Inc. , the top
retailer of GM vehicles in the U.S.  
 “This will help GM improve their sales 10 to 15 percent,”
he said in an e-mail. “We see this as a boost to our GM
business.”  
 GM’s 8.375 percent bonds due July 2033 rose 1.69 cents, or
5.1 percent, to 34.5 cents on the dollar yesterday in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-pricing service of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       GM had considered buying back its former lending unit  
                       
                         
                           David Scull/Bloomberg News. 
                         
                         Senator Chuck Grassley. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Senator Chuck Grassley.  Photographer:  David Scull/Bloomberg News.  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                     July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Chris Liddell, vice chairman and chief financial officer of General Motors Co., talks about the automaker's agreement to buy subprime lender AmeriCredit Corp. for $3.5 billion.
     GM is 61 percent owned by the U.S. Liddell speaks with Betty Liu and Jon Erlichman on Bloomberg Television's "In the Loop." Mario Gabelli, chief executive officer of Gamco Investors Inc., also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
