-- Gucci Stops Founder's Descendant Using Name for Global Chain of Hotels
-- Andrew Roberts
-- 2010-07-22T17:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/gucci-wins-order-preventing-founder-s-descendant-from-using-name-for-hotel.html

          
          
             Gucci, the luxury-goods company
owned by  PPR SA,  said it won an injunction preventing
unauthorized use of the Elisabetta Gucci name, thwarting plans
by the great-granddaughter of the founder to open a chain of
hotels under her moniker.  
 The use of Elisabetta Gucci’s name “has caused customer
confusion and has been harmful to Gucci’s business,” the
company said in an e-mail today that was confirmed by a
spokeswoman. The ruling by a Florence court “will hopefully act
as a significant deterrent for those who intend to unlawfully
license or commercially exploit the Gucci trademarks.”  
 Calls and e-mails to Elisabetta Gucci’s Dubai office were
not immediately answered. Lorens Ziller, managing partner of her
eponymous company, did not immediately return e-mails seeking
comment.  
 Elisabetta Gucci plans to open an 87-suite hotel in Dubai
by the end of the year, Ziller said last month. Branded as
 EG Hotels and Resorts by Elisabetta Gucci , the property would
showcase furniture designed by her and built by Formitalia Srl,
Ziller said.  
 Ziller and Formitalia must “immediately cease any use of
the mark at issue as well as of the domain name ‘Elisabetta
Gucci’ for any business or advertising purpose,” Gucci said.
The same applies to Mirabili Srl and Formitalia Group SpA, it
said. The court imposed a penalty for any violation and awarded
Gucci legal fees, the company said.  
 The Dubai hotel will be the first of 40 to open globally in
the next 15 years, Ziller said last month. Elisabetta Gucci’s
partner is Baitek International Investment, owned by Saudi
Arabian investor Abdulla Al Sayegh.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        