-- Gulf Deep-Water Drilling Should Resume on Case-by-Case Basis, Expert Says
-- Mark Chediak
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/gulf-deep-water-drilling-should-resume-on-case-by-case-basis-expert-says.html

          
          
             U.S. regulators could end a blanket
ban on deep-water oil drilling by increasing oversight of
troubled wells and improving safety industrywide, a California
professor who studies catastrophes said in an interim report on
the sinking of the Deepwater Horizon rig in the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Robert Bea , the  University of California Berkeley 
engineering professor who studied the Columbia Space Shuttle
explosion and the failure of New Orleans levees after Hurricane
Katrina, said regulators should determine which drilling
operations should be suspended “on a case-by-case basis” as
the industry works to improve blowout prevention equipment,
inspection procedures and worker training programs.  
 “I don’t choose to send an entire class to detention’’
because of a few underperforming students, Bea said yesterday in
a phone interview. “Rather, I go and work with those students
to show them how to properly perform.” He added, “If they
insist on being bad actors, maybe it is time for them to
leave.”  
 The report by  Bea’s group  suggests safety improvements in
response to the Obama Administration’s blanket six-month
moratorium on deep-water drilling, which was issued in May after
the sinking of  Transocean Ltd. ’s Deepwater Horizon at  BP Plc ’s
well off the Louisiana coast that killed 11 workers and led to
the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 A federal judge in New Orleans rejected the ban as too
broad, and Interior Secretary  Kenneth Salazar  responded July 12
with new drilling suspension rules that have kept deep-water
rigs idle.  
 Presidential Commission  
 Bea said the  report  by the Deepwater Horizon Study Group
was sent to Salazar and William Reilly, co-chairman of a
presidential commission studying offshore safety improvements.
Bea said Reilly has requested monthly updates on the
investigation.  
 Regulators should focus more on specific wells that have
“a history of abnormal repetitive well-control events’’ or
which utilize blowout prevention equipment that is substandard,
inadequately tested or improperly modified, Bea said. Wells with
nitrogen-agent cement, insufficient cement bond logs and a
record of accidents, injuries and excessive regulatory citations
should also be strictly evaluated before they are allowed to
resume drilling, he said.  
 Bea also said an individual regulator should be assigned to
each troubled well to ensure it adheres to all safety and
documentation requirements. Complete responsibility for all
deep-water drilling procedures and safety should be centralized
at a single regulatory agency, staffed around the clock by
petroleum engineers with the authority to immediately shut any
well that isn’t following the rules, he said.  
 Bank Examiner  
 “Their power would be equivalent to a bank examiner who
closes the bank, then asks for explanations,’’ Bea said.  
 Special attention should be paid to blowout prevention
equipment, or BOPs, Bea said. BOPs should have built-in
redundancy, fully functional dual controls -- including wireless
controls -- and be proven strong enough to sever the type of
drill pipe and casing used in that particular well, he said. Any
modifications to the BOP or other installed equipment should be
fully documented and subject to third-party verification and
certification, Bea said.  
 Bea also called for improved training for rig crews,
“including contractor and owner management personnel assigned
to each rig.’’ He said all rigs should conduct maintenance and
repair programs simultaneously with drilling operations.  
 Oil-Spill Response  
 Bea’s group, which consists of current and former
regulators and individuals with oil industry experience, also
called for the creation of a separate oil-spill response agency
“funded by all oil and gas operators in the Gulf of Mexico.’’
This agency would research and develop new technologies for
responding to and remediating major oil spills, he said.  
 “This contemplates having staged pre-constructed
subsurface collection systems and equipment for responding to
leaks at the sea floor’’ and impacts on the shoreline, Bea said.
He suggested such systems could be paid for by an ad-valorem tax
on oil company profits “with prohibitions for passing this
burden on to consumers.’’  
 Bea said implementing his recommendations can allow the
industry to return to work safely.  
 “It’s a way for them to move forward,’’ Bea said. “I
think it’s time for the industry to come forward and go back to
work, but sure as hell not ignoring the painful lessons of the
Deepwater Horizon failure.’’  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Laurel Brubaker Calkins  in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
 Mark Chediak  in New Orleans at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        