-- Liberals Taking Aim at Racism Shoot Own Feet: Margaret Carlson
-- 
-- 2010-07-22T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/liberals-aiming-at-racism-shoot-own-feet-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html

          
          
             Like the White House and the NAACP,
I was snookered.  
 When I saw the video footage of  Shirley Sherrod ,  Georgia ’s
rural development director for the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture , I leapt to the conclusion that she’d committed a
firing offense. For admitting she gave less aid to a farmer
because he was white, off with Sherrod’s head!  
 I shouldn’t have been so credulous. Like many in the media,
I now appreciate how sensitive I am to being labeled a liberal
bigot if I don’t hurry to condemn cases of reverse racism: black
people in positions of authority, like Sherrod, who seem less
than color-blind in dispensing help.  
 As the Sherrod tape went viral, what ensued was a perfect
storm of mistaken reactions far more significant than my own.
Benjamin Jealous, president of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, condemned Sherrod, who had made
the remarks at an NAACP banquet in March. Agriculture Secretary
Tom Vilsack moved swiftly to remove this renegade federal
employee caught red-handed discriminating.  
 For Sherrod,  appointed  to her federal post in 2009 by the
Obama administration, the downfall was bewildering.  
 She described receiving increasingly agitated calls from
Cheryl Cook, Agriculture’s undersecretary for rural development,
as she was returning from a visit to a farm. A distracted driver
if ever there was one, she couldn’t adequately refute
accusations from the front seat of her car. According to
Sherrod, Cook said there was no time to waste before Fox News
host  Glenn Beck  would hammer away at her on his show that night.
Sherrod pulled off the road and texted her resignation.  
 Return to Sanity  
 Yesterday, some sanity returned. Backed by the unexpurgated
video of her speech, the full story emerged of Sherrod
conscientiously confronting her preconceptions and looking past
skin color 24 years ago to help the white farmer, who became a
good friend. The Obama administration apologized to Sherrod, who
said she was considering whether to accept her job back.  
 There are two big problems here, aside from the harm to a
woman who seems the very model of a decent civil servant.  
 One is that a lie speeds around the world several times
before the truth catches up. Government officials and the
reporters who cover them can easily get caught up in the frenzy
and conclude the only way to stop the madness is to do
something, anything.  
 The other is how sensitive those who seek to redress racial
injustice are to claims of reverse racism, perhaps more so with
 Barack Obama  in the White House. Race is an issue that sets off
a hair-trigger reaction: fire first, ask questions later.  
 Baiting Liberals  
 In retrospect, it’s ludicrous that someone didn’t question
the edited video footage sooner. The  website  that put it up is
known for baiting liberals, particularly on race. It first made
hay with the hidden-camera footage filmed by activists that
seemed to show counselors at the community-organizing group
Acorn trying to help a prostitute get around the law. The setup
worked; Acorn no longer exists.  
 The Sherrod footage hit as the media covered charges and
countercharges between the Tea Party and the NAACP.  
 The head of Tea Party Express,  Mark Williams , had put out a
satiric -- which certainly isn’t synonymous with funny -- letter
in which NAACP’s Jealous thanks  Abraham Lincoln  for giving
blacks “three squares, room and board, all our decisions made
by the massa in the house” and wonders how, with lower taxes,
“we colored people ever get a widescreen TV in every room if
non-coloreds get to keep what they earn.”  
 Eye for an Eye  
 Williams was exiled by the Tea Party Federation, and in the
24/7 media swirl, the hunt was on for the eye-for-an-eye. With
white racists facing the heat, no liberal wanted to defend a
black racist, particularly one associated even tenuously with
the Obama administration.  
 Vilsack said that in demanding Sherrod’s resignation, post-
haste, he acted on his own, without pressure from the White
House. That didn’t stop reporters from pelting White House
spokesman  Robert Gibbs  with Sherrod questions at yesterday’s
news briefing.  
 Gibbs, with good reason, found ample blame to go around.
“Members of this administration, members of the media, members
of different political factions on both sides of this have all
made determinations and judgments without a full set of facts,”
he said.  
 Race is as tender a subject as we have, made more so by
having a black president. The Sherrod case diverted attention
from real racism by manipulating the administration into
overreacting to a fabricated charge.  
 How easy it is to destabilize Obama’s hard-won, delicate
post-racial posture. How easy it was, for 24 hours, to let
someone like Williams off the hook and put the president on it.  
 ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Margaret Carlson in Washington at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        