-- Iceland to Face EU Pressure on Icesave, Fishing Rules in Membership Talks
-- James G. Neuger
-- 2010-07-22T15:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/iceland-to-face-eu-pressure-on-icesave-fishing-rules-in-membership-talks.html

          
          
             Iceland will come under pressure to
resolve the dispute over Icesave accounts and overhaul its
fishing policies in talks to join the European Union that are
scheduled to start next week, a draft EU document showed.  
 Negotiations are slated to begin on July 27 as Britain and
the Netherlands seek compensation for losses of as much as $5.1
billion suffered by their investors in the 2008 collapse of
 Landsbanki Islands hf , which offered the high-yielding Icesave
Internet accounts.  
 “Serious efforts will be required particularly in the
areas of fisheries, agriculture and rural development,
environment, free movement of capital, and financial services in
order to meet the accession criteria,” according to a draft EU
statement obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 EU governments sped the talks from a planned September or
October start to counter the growing anti-EU mood in Iceland.
Opposition to EU membership rose to 60 percent in June from 54
percent in a November poll, according to a Capacent Gallup poll
published July 1 by Iceland’s  RUV  state broadcaster.  
 While the EU draft doesn’t mention the bank-compensation
clash, it points out that any EU country could halt the talks at
any time. The draft also doesn’t explicitly call on Iceland to
give up whale hunting, a demand made by the European Parliament
in a non-binding resolution this month.  
 Plans to open the negotiations require approval by EU
foreign ministers on July 26. The first step would be for the
 European Commission  to assess the compliance of Iceland’s laws
with EU standards. Detailed talks in 35 EU policy areas would
start in early 2011, with no deadline set for membership.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 James G. Neuger  in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        