-- Michael Jordan Is Out of Range on LeBron James: Scott Soshnick
-- Scott Soshnick
-- 2010-07-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/michael-jordan-is-out-of-range-on-lebron-james-scott-soshnick.html

          
          
             Michael Jordan , most of all, should
keep his  mouth shut , at least when the topic is  LeBron James ,
free agency, friendship, rings and right versus wrong.  
 Not another word. Not another syllable. Jordan has
accomplished too much, on and off the basketball court, to
become one of those finger-wagging graybeards who lecture the
next generation on how things were done -- on how things were
better -- back in the day. The saddest stories in sports all
begin the same way: When I played….  
 The first to criticize James for signing with the Miami
Heat was  Charles Barkley , who said no two-time National
Basketball Association Most Valuable Player should leave his
team to join anyone anywhere. Period. End of story. That bit of
wisdom, of course, doesn’t apply to  Kevin Garnett , a one-time
MVP who, looking back, advised James to take control of his
career, to do what makes him happy.  
 “Mike and I are in 100 percent agreement. You don’t leave
anywhere. They come to you,” Barkley told the  Arizona Republic ,
suggesting that James had surrendered alpha-male status (is
there anything worse in sports) by going elsewhere. Before that
Barkley, who got close but never won a championship -- which
Jordan never lets him forget, by the way -- told a Miami radio
station that James, now, could never be the heir to Air.  
 Let’s cut Barkley some slack, though, as his job as an NBA
analyst for TNT requires that he make public pronouncements.
It’s his shtick, for which he’s well compensated.  
 Not Like Mike  
 James never wanted to be the next Jordan. Yes, James
idolized Jordan. Show me the sports-loving kid born in 1984 that
didn’t. Growing up in Akron, Ohio, James probably heard
countless stories about how traveling with Jordan’s Chicago
Bulls was akin to hanging with a certain  mop-haired quartet  from
Liverpool. And here stands James, ripped by his predecessors and
idols for having the gall to form his own superstar trio, the
Heatles.  
 James isn’t Jordan. Never was. His game was patterned not
after dunks, but dishes and dimes, as they’re called on the
playground. James saw himself more as  Magic Johnson , a 6-foot-9-
inch guard who saved his widest grins for crowd-pleasing passes.  
 Speaking of Johnson, he, like Jordan, weighed in on James,
saying he never would have considered joining forces with the
best players because he was too busy figuring out how to beat
them.  
 “We didn’t think about it ‘cause that’s not what we were
about,” Johnson said.  
 Supporting Cast  
 James, 25, chose to leave the Cleveland Cavaliers, who any
basketball analyst worth his clipboard would have to admit,
don’t exactly have a stellar supporting cast. Jordan, beginning
in his fourth season, had seven-time All-Star  Scottie Pippen .
Johnson, meantime, had hall-of-fame running mates like  Kareem Abdul-Jabbar  and  James Worthy .  
 James had, uh, let’s see,  Daniel Gibson ,  Mo Williams  and
 Anderson Varejao , who have combined to produce one All-Star
appearance.  
 James chose to play in Miami, alongside his All-Star pals,
Dwyane Wade and  Chris Bosh . They’ve been friends for years and
played together on the triumphant Olympic team in Beijing. They
even conspired to become free agents at the same time, joking
about joining forces while knowing that salary restrictions made
it almost impossible.  
 But impossible became possible and possible became doable.
So James, and surely Jordan should understand this, Just Did It.  
 Right Motives  
 Look, there’s reason to criticize James, which I have. You
can trash him for how he went about finding a new home, but not
why. His motivation, first and foremost, was winning. Not money.
Not ego. That’s laudable, especially today, when too many
athletes value pay over play.  
 And yet there was Jordan, telling NBC that he never would
have called  Larry Bird  or Johnson with the hope of forming a
miniature dream team.  
 “But things are different. I can’t say that’s a bad
thing,” Jordan said, right before he would insinuate that it’s
a bad thing. “I mean, in all honesty, I was trying to beat
those guys. I don’t know if they would have been on my team.”  
 Jordan, now majority owner of the Charlotte Bobcats, is
right about one thing. Things are different.  
 It would’ve been something to see Johnson, Jordan or
Barkley exist as a professional athlete in a Twitterati world
where  TMZ  covers sports and employs gotcha paparazzi with
contacts at every hot club in town.  
 Back in the day, when Heat President  Pat Riley  coached the
Knicks, he barred  Charles Oakley  from dining with former Bulls
teammate Jordan because he abhorred fraternization. And here’s
Riley, architect of the three amigos.  
 James, for the most part, has represented himself, his team
and the NBA in fine fashion.  
 Saying It Best  
 Jordan’s former teammate,  Steve Kerr , said it best three
years ago when James was criticized for, get this, passing the
basketball rather than forcing what could’ve been a game-winning
shot in a playoff game.  
 Jordan, let’s remember, was in a similar situation during
 Game 6  of the 1997 NBA Finals. Jordan, like LeBron, didn’t force
the shot. He passed to Kerr, who, well, you know the rest.  
 Kerr made it.  Donyell Marshall  missed, and the Cavaliers
lost.  
 All James wants is a teammate that he can count on with the
clock ticking down and legacies on the line.  
 “The moral of the story,” Kerr said, “is it’s not easy
being LeBron.”  
 Jordan, Barkley and Johnson would be wise to remember that
before piling on with not-in-our-time proclamations from the
past.  
 ( Scott Soshnick  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        