-- Microsoft Profit Jumps; Sales Rise at Fastest Pace in Two Years
-- Dina Bass
-- 2010-07-22T22:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/microsoft-profit-jumps-sales-rise-at-fastest-pace-in-two-years.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp. , the world’s largest
software maker, posted its biggest sales gain in 2 1/2 years in
the fourth-quarter after customers purchased more personal
computers running the Windows operating system.  
 Net income climbed 48 percent to $4.52 billion, or 51 cents
a share, exceeding the 46-cent average of analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales advanced 22 percent to $16 billion,
the company said today in a statement.  
 Microsoft is benefitting from a recovery in spending as
large businesses buy new PCs and servers. The company said today
it has sold 175 million copies of the latest flagship product,
making Windows 7 the fastest-selling operating system in the
history of the Redmond, Washington-based company. Global  PC
shipments  jumped 21 percent last quarter, according to research
firm Gartner Inc.  
 “It’s pretty clear that there is both a PC and server
buying cycle and Windows 7 is a winner,” said  Katherine Egbert ,
an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in San Francisco, who advises
 buying  Microsoft shares. “People are obviously buying it despite
all the hype around Apple.”  
 Microsoft was little changed in after-hours trading after
climbing 72 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $25.84 at 4 p.m. New York
time on the  Nasdaq Stock Market . The shares have dropped 15
percent this year.  
 Analysts had predicted Microsoft would have total sales of
$15.3 billion in the quarter, which ended June 30.  
 Apple Inc. , which competes with Microsoft in operating
systems for computers, tablets and mobile phones, reported
quarterly sales this week of $15.7 billion, topping estimates.  
 Renewal Rates Rise  
 Microsoft said operating expenses for the year starting
July 1 will be $26.9 billion to $27.3 billion, down from its
March forecast of $27 billion to $27.5 billion. Microsoft no
longer provides projections for sales and profit.  
 Fourth-quarter unearned revenue, a measure of multiyear
contracts, was $14.8 billion, above the $14.7 billion estimate
of  Heather Bellini , an analyst at ISI Group in New York.  
 Signs of demand by businesses for bigger purchases improved
in the quarter. Renewal rates of multiyear enterprise agreements
reached the highest rate for the year, returning to Microsoft’s
historical average of 66 percent to 75 percent, Chief Financial
Officer  Peter Klein  said in an interview. The company doesn’t
provide a more specific figure. Billings, a measure of future
revenue, grew 27 percent, he said.  
 Sales of agreements that have been signed but for which
customers haven’t yet been billed rose to about $15 billion,
Microsoft said. That’s from about $13.5 billion at the end of
the third quarter.  
 ‘More Evidence’  
 Revenue in the Windows division was $4.55 billion, above
the $4.3 billion estimate of  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS AG
in San Francisco. Microsoft Business Division sales, made up
mostly of Office software, were $5.25 billion, compared with
Thill’s $5.05 billion projection.  
 “It sounds like enterprises are buying Windows 7 and will
roll it out at some point,” said  Brendan Barnicle , an analyst at
Pacific Crest Securities in Portland, Oregon, who  recommends 
buying the shares and doesn’t own any himself. “We’ve seen more
and more evidence of a recovery in enterprise spending.”  
 Server software  revenue was $4.01 billion. Thill had
estimated $3.85 billion.  
 Entertainment and Devices, the unit that includes Xbox and
mobile phones, came in at $1.6 billion in sales. Thill had
expected sales of $1.58 billion.  
 Online Sales  
 The Online Services unit had sales of $565 million, short
of Thill’s $589 million prediction. Microsoft’s Bing Internet
search engine gained a percentage point of U.S. market share in
the quarter, rising to 12.7 percent, according to ComScore Inc.
in Reston, Virginia. That compared with 62.6 percent for  Google
Inc.  and 18.9 percent for Yahoo! Inc., which is switching over
to using Bing’s technology.  
 Global  PC shipments  industrywide rose 21 percent in the
second quarter, Gartner said, beating the firm’s projection of
19 percent. Intel Corp., the world’s biggest chipmaker, posted
record second-quarter sales last week and said corporate
spending is strengthening.  
 Information-technology spending will climb 7.8 percent
worldwide in 2010, according to an estimate from Forrester
Research Inc.  
 In the year-earlier fourth quarter, Microsoft posted profit
of $3.05 billion, or 34 cents a share, on sales of $13.1
billion.  Net income  in that period included legal expenses,
severance costs and impairments to investments.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Ballmer, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp. Photographer: Munshi Ahmed/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners in New York, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp.'s financial results and outlook.
     Amazon.com, the largest Internet retailer, forecast third-quarter profit that missed analysts' estimates after it cut prices on the Kindle, its best-selling product, and as falling currencies erode overseas sales. Microsoft, the world's largest software maker, reported fourth-quarter profit that topped analysts' estimates after customers purchased more personal computers running the Windows operating system. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the outlook for technology earnings.
     Santa Clara, California-based Intel Corp., whose processors run more than 80 percent of the world’s personal computers, last week reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts’ estimates with its forecast for the current period. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
