-- Microsoft May Use Cash to Boost Dividend After Two-Year Lull
-- Dina Bass
-- 2010-07-22T16:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/microsoft-may-use-cash-to-boost-dividend-this-quarter-after-two-year-lull.html

          
          
             Microsoft Corp. , the world’s largest
software maker, may raise its quarterly dividend for the first
time since 2008 as its cash hoard swells, data compiled by
Bloomberg suggests.  
 This quarter, Microsoft may boost the  dividend  to 15 cents
a share from 13 cents, giving the company an indicated dividend
yield of 2.31 percent, according to the data. That increase
would cost the software maker about $700 million a year.  
 Microsoft, which will probably post its biggest  sales gain 
in two years when it reports fourth-quarter earnings today, had
$39.7 billion in  cash and short-term investments  as of March 31.
The company is looking for ways to reward shareholders after a
21 percent slide in the stock price last quarter, compared with
the 12 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  
 “They really have to do something,” said  Michael Holland ,
who oversees more than $4 billion, including Microsoft shares,
as chairman of Holland & Co. in New York. “A dividend increase
is a way for the board and management to signal their overall
business is healthy.” Not doing it “would probably send an
unintended signal,” he said.  
 Bloomberg bases its dividend estimates on seven criteria,
including a company’s dividend history and public forecasts.  
 Same Strategy  
 Microsoft Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein  said in
January that he would hew closely to the strategy of his
predecessor,  Chris Liddell , who stepped down as CFO last year.
The approach included holding a “target amount of cash” and
using all operating cash left after capital expenditures and
acquisitions for dividends and share repurchases, Klein said.  
 Microsoft spokesman Pete Wootton declined to comment.  
 Heather Bellini , an analyst at ISI Group in New York,
concurs that Microsoft is likely to increase its dividend.
Microsoft has typically focused on growth in operating profit to
determine when to raise the dividend, she said in an e-mail.  
 “For fiscal 2010, given that we are forecasting  operating
income  growth of 14 percent, we would expect an increase,” said
Bellini, who  advises  buying the shares. Bellini also cautioned
that any change to the tax rate on dividends may dissuade
Microsoft from lifting it “materially.”  
 Microsoft will probably say fourth-quarter earnings per
share rose to 46 cents, the average of  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg, from 34 cents a year earlier. Analysts
predict revenue will rise 16 percent to $15.3 billion.  
 PC Demand  
 The gains were fueled in part by rising demand for personal
computers. Global PC sales rose 21 percent  last quarter ,
according to Gartner Inc. outpacing the research firm’s forecast
for a 19 percent climb. Intel Corp., the world’s biggest
chipmaker, said last week that corporate spending is increasing.  
 Some technology companies have been turning away from large
acquisitions, instead accumulating cash, which they may use for
dividends and share buybacks, according to Bloomberg analysis.
With International Business Machines Corp. and  Analog Devices
Inc.  already boosting payouts this year, there’s increased
pressure on other technology firms.  
 Bloomberg analysis predicts increases from  Maxim Integrated
Products , Broadridge Financial Solutions Inc. and Quality
Systems Inc.  
 Over the past decade, Microsoft, with one of the biggest
cash piles among non-banking companies, has experimented with
strategies to return funds to shareholders.  
 Payout History  
 Microsoft declared its first dividend in 2003, when it had
more than $43 billion in the bank. Less than two years later
with cash mounting, the company paid a special one-time dividend
of $3 a share.  
 Microsoft rose 69 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $25.81 at 12:34
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market  trading . The shares
had lost 18 percent  this year  before today.  
 In 2006, when investors urged the company to repurchase at
least $60 billion of stock, Microsoft tried a $20 billion tender
offer for its own shares. The offer failed to generate enough
interest and investors tendered just $3.8 billion in stock.  
 Microsoft is now in the middle of a $40 billion  repurchase
program  that runs through 2013. The company stopped repurchases
for three quarters during the economic slump to conserve cash.  
 Since the recession ended, many investors have shown a
preference for using the cash for payouts rather than buybacks,
Holland said. There isn’t much evidence that repurchases raise
the stock price, especially with regard to Microsoft, he said.
The stock trades in the same range as it did  five years ago .  
 Still, a dividend increase may do little to assuage
investors seeking new areas of growth now that Microsoft’s
Windows 7 operating system is out the door. Some shareholders
are concerned about the company’s declining market share in
mobile phones and  Apple Inc. ’s ascent in tablet-style computers,
said  Tony Ursillo , an analyst at Loomis, Sayles & Co. in Boston.  
 That may pose a threat to notebooks running Windows, said
Ursillo, whose firm owns Microsoft shares.  
 “People cared about Windows 7,” he said. “They don’t
seem to care about anything else that may be going well for the
company.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dina Bass  in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Steve Ballmer, chief executive officer of Microsoft Corp. Photographer: Tony Avelar/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 19 (Bloomberg) -- Brian Jacobsen, chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Funds Management LLC, talks with Bloomberg's Mark Crumpton about the outlook for technology earnings.
     Santa Clara, California-based Intel Corp., whose processors run more than 80 percent of the world’s personal computers, last week reported record second-quarter sales and topped analysts’ estimates with its forecast for the current period. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Microsoft Chief Financial Officer Peter Klein said in January he would hew closely to the strategy of his predecessor. Source: Microsoft Corp. via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
