-- Life Settlements in U.S. May Have High Fees, Lack Transparency, GAO Says
-- Alexis Leondis
-- 2010-07-22T15:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/life-settlements-in-u-s-may-have-high-fees-lack-transparency-gao-says.html

          
          
             Cashing out life-insurance policies
may be risky for sellers and buyers because of inconsistent
regulation, according to the  Government Accountability Office .  
 Senior citizens may be charged excessive fees and get less
than they should when selling their policies in transactions
known as life settlements, the GAO said in a report today.
Investors who buy the policies may not receive enough
information about the risks.  
 “The differences in regulations from state-to-state afford
some consumers less protection when engaging in a life-
settlement transaction simply because of where they live,” said
Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat, who’s chairman of the
Senate Special Committee on Aging, which requested the report.  
 In life settlements, policies are sold to investors, who
pay the premiums until the sellers die and then collect the
proceeds. Senior citizens may sell their policies because they
need cash, the premiums are too expensive or their beneficiaries
have passed away.  
 The average face value of a sample of 1,020 policies sold
in a life settlement in 2008 was almost $2.3 million, the GAO
said, citing Life Policy Dynamics LLC, a Washington-based
consultant. The annual premium on average for a policy worth
about $2 million was $98,440 and a policyholder in 2009 received
$263,818 for selling, compared with $36,700 for surrendering it
to the insurer, according to Life Policy Dynamics.  
 Life-settlement providers surveyed by the GAO reported
purchasing policies with a total face value of $7.01 billion in
2009 compared with $12.95 billion in 2008 as the credit crunch
decreased demand, the agency said.  
 ‘Informal Network’  
 The industry is currently organized as “an informal
network of intermediaries,” the report said. Life-settlement
brokers collect commissions for representing policyholders
looking to sell and settlement providers usually get fees for
buying policies that may be pooled on behalf of investors
including individuals, banks, insurance companies and hedge
funds.  
 There may be a lack of consistent oversight since state
insurance regulators focus on protecting policy owners and state
securities regulators are generally responsible for protecting
investors, the GAO said. Policyholders in some states could
complete a life settlement without knowing how much they paid in
fees or whether they received a fair price, unless the
information was provided by brokers voluntarily, said the
agency.  
 Risks for investors include longevity because the original
policyholders may live longer than expected, legal challenges if
the insurer contests the policy and lack of liquidity, the GAO
report said.  
 SEC Report  
 The Securities and Exchange Commission released a separate
report today about investor protection in the life-settlement
market. Life settlements should be clearly defined as securities
so investors in these transactions are protected under U.S.
securities laws, the  SEC’s report  said.  
 “The life settlements market calls out for enhanced and
coordinated regulatory oversight to protect the emerging class
of investors interested in this market,”  Mary Schapiro ,
chairman of the SEC, said in a statement. She formed a task
force last summer to scrutinize instances when financial
institutions package the policies into bonds and sell them to
investors.  
 Federal Oversight  
 Twelve states and the District of Columbia don’t have
insurance laws specifically regulating life settlements,
according to the GAO. Across the 38 states that did have
insurance laws overseeing the industry as of February 2010,
regulation varied, the report said.  
 Twenty-four out of 34 state regulators that had the
authority to examine brokers who negotiate sales of policies
hadn’t done so in the past five years and 22 out of 33 state
regulators authorized to regulate providers who negotiate the
purchase of policies also hadn’t examined them, the agency
found.  
 “Life settlements offer another example of products that
may lack clear, comprehensive regulation,” and oversight is
needed to provide a consistent minimum level of protection for
policy owners and consistent financial regulation for investors,
the report said. The financial regulation bill signed by
President  Barack Obama  yesterday creates a Federal Insurance
Office within the Treasury Department, which will serve as a
national watchdog.  
 GAO Mission  
 State laws regulating life settlements are consistent in
their focus on policyholder protection and a federal charter
isn’t appropriate for regulation of the market, the  National
Association of Insurance Commissioners , which is the
organization of state insurance regulators, said in a letter
responding to the GAO report.  
 The GAO, a Congressional agency whose mission is to improve
the performance and accountability of the federal government,
conducted the audit from August 2009 to July 2010. The GAO based
its findings in part on completed surveys from 25 life-
settlement providers licensed in two or more states and 45 state
insurance regulators.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexis Leondis  in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Senator Herb Kohl of Wisconsin, chairman of the Senate Special Committee on Aging. Photographer: Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg  
                   
    


 
     
         Attachment:  SEC Report 
     
    
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
