-- Liffe May Disclose Speculator Holdings After Request From Cocoa Producers
-- M. Shankar
-- 2010-07-22T16:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/liffe-may-disclose-speculator-holdings-after-request-from-cocoa-producers.html

          
          
             NYSE Liffe, the global derivatives
arm of NYSE Euronext, may introduce reporting on speculative
commodity-market positions in the current quarter after cocoa
producers in Europe urged greater transparency.  
 “Further details on this are expected to be announced
during the coming month,” Chris Herman, head of operations at
NYSE Euronext, wrote in a July 8 letter to Hamburg Cocoa &
Commodity Office GmbH, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. The letter responded to questions regarding the July cocoa
contract traded in London.  
 The beans closed at a premium of about 280 pounds ($428) a
metric ton to September cocoa on July 14 as the July contract
added 4.3 percent, the day before expiry. Speculators in London
should be made to report positions to aid transparency, the
German Cocoa Trade Association and 15 other buyers and traders
said in a July 2 letter to the Liffe exchange. Some said they
may consider using the New York market.  
 The premium for July cocoa, a so-called backwardation, may
have signaled scarce supplies. U.K. hedge fund Armajaro Holdings
Ltd. took delivery of 240,100 tons of the beans on July 16,
about 7 percent of annual global output, the Financial Times
reported last week. The delivery was the biggest on Liffe since
1996. Armajaro declined to comment.  
 ‘No Evidence’  
 “From our investigations, there is no evidence of abusive
behavior or that any market participant is trading with the
specific purpose of distorting the price of the July 2010
delivery month,” NYSE Euronext said.  
 Officials of the association and Liffe will meet on July 27
to discuss increasing transparency in the cocoa market, Andreas
Christiansen, chairman of the Hamburg-based trade group, said
last week. He also is a managing partner at Hamburg Cocoa &
Commodity Office.  
 The industry group wants reports similar to the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of
Traders reports on positions in futures markets from corn to
Treasuries. The CFTC provides positions held by speculators such
as hedge funds and those of commercial companies that buy or
sell futures to protect against price changes.  
 “While there was some support from market participants for
the introduction of position limits, there were also many views
expressed against the introduction of such a policy,” NYSE
Liffe said.  
 Cocoa has climbed 31 percent in the past year in London as
the world economic recovery boosted demand for the chocolate
ingredient.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
M. Shankar in London at 
 mshankar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        