-- Index of U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Fell 0.2%
-- Timothy R. Homan
-- 2010-07-22T14:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/index-of-u-s-leading-indicators-declines-for-second-time-in-three-months.html

          
          
             The index of U.S. leading indicators
fell 0.2 percent in June, the second decline in three months,
signaling the world’s largest economy will cool.  
 The decrease in the New York-based Conference Board’s gauge
of the prospects for the economy in the next three to six months
compares with the median estimate for a 0.3 percent decline in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists and follows a 0.5 percent
gain in May.  
 Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  yesterday repeated
his forecast for a “moderate” pace of growth even as he said
the outlook remains “unusually uncertain.” Recent
reports on housing, retail sales and the labor market have
pointed to weakness in the economy as the second half begins.  
 “We’re looking at a very subdued recovery,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in New York,
who forecast the 0.2 percent decline. “We will see some growth
because there is some very gradual improvement in the labor
market, but companies are still very cautious to hire.”  
 Sales of previously owned homes in the U.S. fell less than
economists estimated in June, a report from the National
Association of Realtors showed today. Purchases dropped 5.1
percent to a 5.37 million annual rate, the group said.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.3 percent to
1,094.47 at 10:47 a.m. in New York after the home-sales report
and as companies from United Parcel Service Inc. to AT&T Inc.
increased profit forecasts.  
 Estimates for the Conference Board’s index ranged from no
change to a decline of 0.5 percent, according to projections
from 57 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  
 Jobless Claims  
 A report from the Labor Department today showed that the
number of Americans applying for jobless  benefits  last week rose
more than forecast, increasing by 37,000 to 464,000.  
 Four of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the decrease in June, led by average weekly manufacturing
hours. Supplier deliveries and stock prices also subtracted from
the monthly gauge.  
 Five components advanced, including the gap between 10-year
Treasury note yields and the overnight fed funds rate. One
component, orders for non-defense capital goods, was unchanged.  
 Weak economic data in the U.S. last month pushed down the
Standard & Poor’s 500  Index , which averaged 1,083.36 in June,
down 3.7 percent from the previous month.  
 Coincident Indicators  
 The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, was unchanged in June after
a 0.5 percent gain the previous month. The index tracks
payrolls, incomes, sales and production, the measures used by
the National Bureau of Economic Research to determine the
beginning and end of U.S. recessions.  
 The gauge of lagging indicators increased 0.1 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
unemployment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and consumer credit.  
 Some company leaders say growth is tepid.  Dow Chemical Co. 
Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said the economy is in a
“slow recovery.”  
 “We are still living in this kind of opaqueness that
should worry us all,” the head of the biggest U.S. chemical
maker said in a July 16 interview in New York. “We are in a
slow recovery that has a lot of zigs and zags.”  
 Revised Forecasts  
 Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last week reduced
their estimate of second-quarter growth to a 2 percent annual
pace from 3 percent after data showed the U.S. trade gap
widened in May to an 18-month high while retail sales fell for a
second straight month. JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts reduced
their projection of growth in the second half by 0.5 percentage
point to 2.75 percent.  
 Federal Reserve policy makers trimmed their forecasts for
U.S. growth and raised unemployment projections at their June
22-23 meeting. For 2011, officials expect growth ranging from
3.5 percent to 4.2 percent, down from 3.4 percent to 4.5
percent.  
 Bernanke yesterday told lawmakers in Washington that
central bank policy makers “expect continued moderate growth, a
gradual decline in the unemployment rate and subdued
inflation over the next several years.”  
 He also said central bankers “remain prepared” to act as
needed to aid growth even as they get ready to eventually raise
interest rates from almost zero and shrink a record balance
sheet.  
 Delivery Times  
 Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the leading index
are known ahead of time: stock prices, jobless claims,  building
permits , consumer expectations, the yield curve, factory hours
and supplier delivery times.  
 The Conference Board estimates new orders for consumer
goods, bookings for capital goods and the money supply adjusted
for inflation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke repeated his forecast for a “moderate” pace of growth even as he said the outlook remains “unusually uncertain.”  Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
