-- India's Central Bank Allows Overseas Borrowing to Refinance Rupee Loans
-- Rakteem Katakey
-- 2010-07-22T14:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/india-s-central-bank-allows-overseas-borrowing-to-refinance-rupee-loans.html

          
          
             India’s central bank today allowed
infrastructure companies to refinance domestic bank loans
through overseas borrowings to fund new projects as Asia’s
third-biggest economy seeks to improve its roads and ports.  
 Companies that build airports and power plants are eligible
to refinance their loans through overseas debt, according to a
statement posted on the  website  of the Reserve Bank of India.  
 “This will provide an alternate route in case of tight
liquidity in the domestic market,”  Hari Das Khunteta , finance
director at Rural Electrification Corp., which lends to power
projects, said by telephone. “Currently interest rates overseas
are lower than in India.”  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  plans to invest $1 trillion
in infrastructure projects in the five years starting April 2012.
India, ranked below war-ravaged Ivory Coast and Sri Lanka for
the quality of infrastructure, is building roads and ports to
boost economic growth. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee 
projects India will grow faster than 8.5 percent in the year to
March 31.  
 The  Reserve Bank of India  has increased its benchmark rates
three times since mid-March by a quarter-point each.  
 Companies are allowed to borrow $500 million overseas in a
financial year without getting approval from the Reserve Bank of
India, according to the statement. That rule will not change,
according to the statement.  
 “The cap for overseas borrowing means the refinancing will
only be a small part of overall debt,” Khunteta said. Typically
power companies borrow 70 percent of the cost of a project, he
said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        