-- Indonesia's Parliament Approves Darmin Nasution as Central Bank Governor
-- Novrida Manurung
-- 2010-07-22T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/indonesia-s-parliament-approves-darmin-nasution-as-central-bank-governor.html

          
          
             Indonesian lawmakers approved a
proposal that Bank Indonesia Acting Governor Darmin Nasution
take the job permanently, ending a 14-month impasse over the
central bank’s leadership.  
 The 54 lawmakers representing Commission XI, the body
charged with considering Darmin’s nomination, agreed by
consensus late yesterday to approve him following two days of
questioning.  
 President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  nominated Nasution, 61,
to be central bank chief in June, seeking to plug a gap in the
country’s economic leadership after the previous governor,
Boediono, resigned in May 2009 to become Yudhoyono’s running
mate in last year’s presidential election. Indonesia has left
its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 6.5 percent since
August 2009.  
 “The approval is expected to increase market confidence
after the post was left vacant for more than a year,” said
 Juniman , an economist at PT Bank Internasional Indonesia in
Jakarta. “The market wants to know what monetary policies will
be taken by the central bank.”  
 Yesterday’s approval will be formalized at a plenary
meeting. Nasution will be the 14th governor in the central
bank’s 57-year history.  
 Rate Decisions  
 Indonesia has held back from tightening monetary policy
even as neighbors from  Malaysia  to India raised borrowing costs
this year to avert asset bubbles and contain inflation in a
region that’s leading the global economic recovery. The
country’s benchmark interest rate is at the lowest level since
it was introduced in July 2005.  
 Southeast Asia’s largest economy expanded 5.7 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
2008. Consumer prices, which rose 5.05 percent in June, are
forecast to climb in a range of 5.8 percent to 6 percent this
year, Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said on
July 20.  
 Standard & Poor’s raised Indonesia’s sovereign credit
rating to a 12-year high of BB from BB- on March 12, with a
positive outlook. S&P and Moody’s Investors Service both rank
Indonesia two levels below investment grade, while Fitch Ratings
on Jan. 25 raised it to one step below investment.  
 Nasution received his doctorate in economics from
University of Paris, Sorbonne, France in 1986, according to the
Bank Indonesia  website . He was chairman of Indonesia’s Capital
Market and Financial Institution Supervisory Agency, or Bapepam,
in 2006, and was director general of taxation at the Ministry of
Finance before moving to the central bank.  
 Bank Indonesia is led by a board of governors consisting of
one governor, one senior deputy governor and six deputy
governors.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aloysius Unditu  in Jakarta at 
 aunditu@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        