-- Infineon Stakes Its Chips on Energy-Saving Technology, Renewable Power
-- Ragnhild Kjetland
-- 2010-07-22T07:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/infineon-stakes-its-chips-on-energy-saving-technology-renewable-power.html

          
          
             Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s
second-biggest chipmaker, is betting on increasing demand for
parts to make energy-efficient products and to control renewable
energy generation.  
 “Today, we have 80 percent  efficiency  in power supply,”
Arunjai Mittal, head of the industrial and multimarket unit,
said in an interview. “We can raise that to 90 percent.” If
another 5 euros ($6.41) worth of chips were put into each of the
approximately 40 million computers sold in the European Union
yearly, it would save electricity and remove CO2 emissions
equivalent to eliminating 300,000 cars, Mittal said.  
 In power chips for consumer products, Infineon is neck-and-
neck with  Toshiba Corp.  in market share, followed by
 STMicroelectronics NV,  Mittal said, citing IMS Research. In
chips for industrial use,  Mitsubishi Corp.  is biggest, followed
by Infineon and Semikron Ltd. Infineon had 11 percent of the
global power chips market in 2009, and has been increasing its
share by 0.5 percent to 1 percent a year, Mittal said.  
 The company sees opportunities to increase sales of wind-
turbine chips and gain revenue of 6,000 euros to 25,000 euros
per turbine, Mittal said in the interview at the company’s
headquarters in Neubiberg, Germany. With more than 70 turbine
makers in China, there is a “very ambitious plan” to cover the
uninhabited area north and north east of China with turbines,
Mittal said. “We deliver to a significant portion” of these
manufacturers, he said.  
 In the next 10 years, China plans to install 100 gigawatts
of wind turbines, and depending on their size that could be as
many as 28,000, Mittal said.  
 Asia-Pacific  
 The building of wind farms and strong growth in consumer
products, such as computers and LCD televisions made in Taiwan
and Korea, will help increase the share of Infineon’s revenue
from the Asia-Pacific region, including Japan, Mittal said.  
 Solar and wind energy are predicted to grow by 700 percent
and over 400 percent respectively between 2007 and 2035, Mittal
said, citing the  Outlook 2010  report of the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration . These energy sources may account for
10 percent of electricity consumed, and Infineon estimates it
has about 50 percent of the market in chips for solar and wind
applications, Mittal said.  
 The bigger the wind turbine, the higher the value of the
chips that go into them. Wind turbines should become larger than
they are today, as well as more efficient, Mittal said.  
 Acquisition Strategy  
 The average wind turbine of inland Germany produces between
1.5 megawatts and 2 megawatts, Mittal said. By comparison, each
of the 140 turbines in the Greater Gabbard wind park, offshore
from Ipswich in the U.K, produces 3.6 megawatts.  
 “These are taller than the  cathedral  in Cologne and the
tip of these blades sees wind speeds that are more than that
experienced by the tip of an Airbus 380, so they are extremely
fast,” Mittal said.  
 Infineon is “very confident that with our technology and
ideas we can grow organically faster than the market” and the
company may expand partly through purchases, he said.  
 Any acquisition “has to deliver high added value,” such
as “additional intellectual property and know-how,” Mittal
said. As an example, he named Primarion, based in Torrance,
California, which Infineon bought in April 2008 to gain strength
in power-management applications.  
 Infineon will also increase revenue by creating new
markets, Mittal said. Inductive rice cookers are one “market
that we believe we have created,” with the IGBT chip, a power
semiconductor device used in medium-to high-power applications,
Mittal said.  
 Chinese Cooking  
 In China, “a high double-digit million number” of table-
top induction cooking plates, including rice cookers, use
Infineon chips, Mittal said. “Very popular are so called ‘hot
pot’ restaurants where the guests cook their meal on an
induction cooking plate in the middle of the table,” he said.  
 “For single table-top induction cookers, we’re the biggest
player worldwide with a market share of more than 70 percent,”
Mittal said. Infineon-powered rice cookers are more than 35
percent more efficient than conventional methods of cooking,
Mittal said.  
 While sales and earnings have grown steadily in the past
four quarters, they haven’t yet recovered to the high point of
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  
 “We have operated at full capacity since the beginning of
this year,” Mittal said. “For the remaining part of this
calendar year it’ll also be very high,” Last year, for some
technologies, use of capacity was less than 50 percent.  
 Infineon will publish results on July 28 for the fiscal
third quarter ended June 30.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        