-- Inflation to Restrain Indian Corporate Bond Appetite, HSBC Economist Says
-- Suprotip Ghosh
-- 2010-07-22T03:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/inflation-to-restrain-indian-corporate-bond-appetite-hsbc-economist-says.html

          
          
             Inflation driven by prices of food
and manufactured goods threatens to drive Indian interest rates
higher this year, pushing investors away from corporate bonds,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  
 “The inflation outlook in India is slightly more worrying
than in other countries,”  Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian
economic research, said in a telephone interview from Hong Kong.
“That might restrain investor appetite for fixed-income
products like corporate credit.”  
 Consumer prices surged 13.9 percent in May, the highest
among 17 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg. The Reserve Bank of
India has raised its benchmark interest rate three times this
year to 4 percent. Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News expect
the reverse repurchase rate to be raised again next week by a
quarter point.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government on June 25 let
state-run refiners increase prices of gasoline and diesel to cut
state oil subsidies. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  this week
said inflation was a matter for concern, and is no longer
confined to increases in food prices.  
 Bond markets are more sensitive to inflation than stocks,
said Neumann. Higher prices erode bonds’ fixed returns. Indian
dollar bonds have returned 7.6 percent on average this year,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  
 Economic growth will also fuel inflation, and HSBC expects
the Indian corporate profit outlook to remain strong because of
companies’ pricing power and productivity gains, Neumann said.
HSBC may lift its 2010 wholesale-price inflation forecast, said
Neumann. The central bank may raise interest rates by 1.5
percentage points within a year, he said.  
 The benchmark wholesale-price index jumped 10.55 percent in
June, after climbing 11.23 percent in April -- the most in 19
months, a government report showed last week.  
 India’s 10-year government  bond  yields rose to the highest
level in a month yesterday, on speculation of a further interest
rate increase.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Suprotip Ghosh in New Delhi at 
 Sghosh47@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        