-- Buy Rupee as Rising Rates to Strengthen Currency by 5%, RBS's Bhasin Says
-- Anoop Agrawal
-- 2010-07-22T13:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/investors-should-buy-indian-rupee-royal-bank-of-scotland-s-bhasin-says.html

          
          
             Investors should buy the Indian
rupee as rising  interest rates  will lure overseas funds and help
the higher yielding currency appreciate almost 5 percent by
December, Royal Bank of Scotland NV said.  
 The currency may climb to 45 against the dollar by the end
of this year, a level last seen in May, from today’s close of
47.135, as the  Reserve Bank of India  is likely to increase its
benchmark rate by a half-percentage point, the bank said. The
rupee is the worst performer after the Korean won among the 10
most-traded Asian currencies outside Japan.  
 “The rupee at the current level looks very cheap and we
are advising our clients to be long on the currency,”  Ramit Bhasin , head of markets in India at RBS told reporters in Mumbai
today. “With these rate hikes, and carry differential that is
picking up, the rupee will get stronger.”  
 Net  capital flows  into the nation’s stocks reached 407
billion rupees this year ($8.6 billion), about half of the
record 834.2 billion rupees in 2009 when the benchmark share
index’s biggest advance 18 years attracted foreign investors.
The government estimates the economy will expand 8.5 percent in
the year to March 31, the fastest pace in three years.  
 The  International Monetary Fund  this month raised its 2010
economic growth forecast for India to 9.4 percent from the 8.8
percent estimated in April.  
 A long position is a bet that an asset will appreciate in
value, while a carry trade involves borrowing from countries
with relatively low interest rates and buying higher-yielding
assets elsewhere. The rupee has risen about 3 percent in the
past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 India’s central bank has raised its rates three times this
year and next meets to review borrowing costs on July 27. The
yield on the South Asian nation’s benchmark  government debt 
maturing in 2020, at 7.68 percent today, is the highest among
the so-called BRIC countries, comprising Brazil, Russia, India
and China.  
 All 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the
 reverse-repurchase rate  to be raised next week by a quarter of a
percentage point to 4.25 percent to curb inflation. All except
one predict a similar rise in the repurchase rate to 5.75
percent.  
 “There is no place where the 10-year bond yields are at
7.75 percent,” Bhasin said, referring to his own forecast for
the notes by December.  
 Fund inflows will more than counter the deficit in India’s
 current account , the broadest measure of trade, he said. The gap
widened to a record $13 billion in the quarter ended March from
a shortfall of $12.2 billion in the previous quarter.  
 An RBS survey of 108 respondents showed the rupee will rise
to a median 46 per dollar by December and 45 by March 2011.  
 “I’m a very big India bull, I think the stock market will
continue to do well, and there is a lot of positive sentiment
toward India,” said Bhasin.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net ;
 Anoop Agrawal  in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        