-- Israel May Leave Benchmark Rate Unchanged on Global Economic Concerns
-- Alisa Odenheimer
-- 2010-07-22T11:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/israel-may-leave-benchmark-rate-unchanged-on-global-economic-concerns.html

          
          
             Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  may leave the benchmark interest  rate  unchanged for a
fourth month as the outlook for growth in Europe and the U.S.
weakens.  
 Fischer is likely to leave the rate at 1.5 percent,
according to 11 of 16 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The
other five expect a quarter-point increase. The decision by the
Jerusalem-based bank will be announced at 5:30 p.m. local time
on July 26.  
 “The Bank of Israel is willing to risk inflation, but it’s
not willing to risk an economic crisis,”  Amir Kahanovich , an
economist at Clal Finance Investment Management Ltd. in Tel
Aviv, said in a telephone interview. “He wants to wait and see
what will happen in Europe, and what other central banks will
do.”  
 Fischer gradually increased the key rate by a percentage
point between August and March as the economy recovered from the
impact of the worst global recession since the Great Depression.
The economies of the U.S. and Europe, Israel’s main export
markets, now look “less good” than hoped, and Israeli
companies see growth slowing in the third quarter as exports
weaken, Fischer said July 19.  
 “Fischer knows that interest rates are too low,” said
Kahanovich. “But he wants to keep the interest rate spread
between Israel and the rest of the world as low as possible to
prevent the shekel from strengthening, which could hurt
 exports .”  
 The shekel has strengthened about 10 percent against the
euro this year, and was trading at 4.9372 at 10:14 a.m. It has
weakened by about 2 percent against the dollar during the same
period.  
 Slower Growth  
 Israeli  growth  slowed to 3.4 percent in the first quarter
from 4.4 percent in the previous three months, as an expansion
in exports slowed. Exports account for almost half of gross
domestic product.  
 The Finance Ministry lowered its growth forecast for the
year due to the European debt crisis, Finance Minister  Yuval Steinitz  said June 6. The economy is likely to expand 3.6
percent this year, according to the forecast. Steinitz had said
on May 6 that growth was likely to be between 3.7 percent and
4.3 percent for the year. About one-third of Israeli exports are
sold to Europe.  
 Israel’s benchmark TA-25 stock index has slid by about 8
percent in the past three months. The decline was led by
Discount Investment Corp., a holding company with interests in
banking and telecommunications, which dropped by about 30
percent.  
 Inflation Forecast  
 While inflation slowed to 2.4 percent in June, falling
within the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target for the
first time since October, Israeli forecasters on average expect
 inflation  to accelerate to 2.7 percent within 12 months,
according to a Bank of Israel survey released.  
 Housing prices have risen by 20 percent in the past year,
Fischer said July 19. While a bubble in the housing market has
yet to form, if prices continue to rise at the current pace one
could develop, he said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        