-- Liverpool in Talks to Sell Mascherano to Inter, Guardian Says: Roundup
-- Christopher Elser
-- 2010-07-22T10:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/liverpool-in-talks-to-sell-mascherano-to-inter-guardian-says-roundup.html

          
          
             The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  
 Mascherano for Inter?  
 Liverpool is in talks with Inter Milan to sell midfielder
 Javier Mascherano  for 25 million pounds ($38.2 million),  the
Guardian said.   
 New manager  Roy Hodgson  warned Liverpool supporters that
the club needs several signings to remove the “doom and gloom”
of last season, when the team finished seventh in the Premier
League. By going to Inter, Mascherano would be reunited with
former manager  Rafael Benitez .  
 Doubt Over Torres  
 Fernando Torres  has yet to commit to staying at Liverpool,
 the Sun said.   
 Torres has been talking with managing director  Christian Purslow  for the last two days, Hodgson told the newspaper, but
has yet to speak to the manager or say he’ll remain at the club.  
 Sunderland Wants James  
 Sunderland is trying to sign England goalkeeper  David James 
even amid interest from Fulham and Celtic, the  Daily Mail 
reported.  
 Coach  Steve Bruce  had considered making a short-term offer
for the former Portsmouth and Liverpool player after
Sunderland’s  Craig Gordon  broke his arm, though now he’s
thinking of a longer-term deal after Ipswich made a bid for
backup  Marton Fulop .  
 West Ham Target  
 West Ham is leading the bidding for Nice striker Loic Remy
after increasing its offer to 13 million pounds, the  Mail
reported.  Several clubs, including Liverpool, are considering
trying to sign the player.  
 Nice general manager Patrick Governatori said the new offer
“suits us. If Liverpool want him, we need clear arrangements
and commitments.”  
 Liverpool is considering offering Nabil El Zhar and
midfielder Damien Plessis, valued at about 700,000 pounds each,
along with cash to fund the 14 million-pound valuation of Remy,
the  Daily Mirror said.   
 Hodgson is trying to conserve cash to buy additional
defenders after losing  Emiliano Insua  and  Fabio Aurelio , the
newspaper said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        