-- Japan Said to Consider Kazakh Uranium Imports Through East Russian Ports
-- Shigeru Sato
-- 2010-07-23T06:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/japan-said-to-consider-kazakh-uranium-imports-through-east-russian-ports.html

          
          
             Japan, the third-largest nuclear
power producer, plans to ask Russia to allow it to ship uranium
from landlocked Kazakhstan through ports along the country’s
Pacific coast to cut the cost of importing the atomic fuel.  
 A six-month study to assess the viability of shipments from
 Kazakhstan , the world’s largest uranium producer, via ports near
Vladivostok will begin in August and be funded by the Japanese
trade ministry, said two government officials in Tokyo with
direct knowledge of the plan, who declined to be named before an
official announcement due this month.  
 The fuel is currently shipped to Japan through western
Russia and the proposed eastern route could help reduce costs
for companies including Marubeni Corp., Tokyo Electric Power Co.
and Sumitomo Corp. that have invested in uranium ventures in
Kazakhstan. Supplies from the Central Asian country will help
reduce dependence on Canada and Australia, which provide more
than half of Japan’s requirements.  
 “Russia can play a key role and make a big change to
Japan’s uranium supply chain in years ahead as Japan is
increasing purchases from Kazakhstan,” said Tomoko Murakami, a
nuclear analyst at the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan.  
 Almost all Kazakh uranium destined for Japan is currently
shipped through St. Petersburg in western Russia for enrichment
in the U.S., Canada and France before it reaches Japan’s
utilities, said  Koji Furui , a spokesman for Sumitomo, which
holds a stake in Kazakh producer Appak Ltd. Some ore is also
enriched in Russia, he said.  
 Sumitomo, Kansai  
 Under the Japanese proposal, the Kazakh uranium would be
enriched in Russia, according to the government officials.  
 The new shipment route would benefit Japanese buyers as
ventures ramp up production, Sumitomo’s Furui said. The Appak
venture, in which Kansai Electric Power Co. is also a
stakeholder, is in the testing phase of production and expects
to extract 1,000 tons next year, he said.  
 Daisaku Saito, a spokesman for Japan’s trade ministry,
declined to comment on the proposed shipment route and study.  
 The study will assess the safety, capacity and viability of
using railways, roads and storage terminals in Kazakhstan and
Russia and ports in eastern Russia, one of the officials said.  
 The 9,300-kilometer (5,780-mile) Trans-Siberian Railway
could be used to transport the ore to enrichment facilities in
the Russian city of Angarsk, the Japanese official said. The
enriched uranium will likely be shipped out from ports near
Vladivostok, the official said.  
 Trans-Siberian Railway  
 Soviet-era rail networks linking Kazakhstan and Russia may
be used to connect with the Trans-Siberian Railway and using
trucks is also an option, the official said.  
 Kazakhstan supplied 14 percent of Japan’s uranium needs in
2008, compared with 1 percent in 2006, according to data
compiled by the trade ministry and the Federation of Electric
Power Companies of Japan. The country imported 9,800 tons of
uranium in 2008, more than half of it from Australia and Canada,
the data showed.  
 Sumitomo and Kansai Electric agreed with Kazakhstan’s
state-run Kazatomprom in 2006 to jointly invest $100 million to
develop a uranium mine in Kazakhstan. Sumitomo took a 25 percent
stake in Appak, a company founded by Kazatomprom, and Kansai
Electric a 10 percent share.  
 Japanese companies led by Marubeni and Tokyo Electric
bought a Kazakhstan uranium venture in April 2007 and have the
right to purchase about 2,000 tons of uranium a year.  
 Marubeni rose 3.4 percent to close at 460 yen in Tokyo
trading. Sumitomo gained 2.5 percent to 913 yen, while Tokyo
Electric fell 0.5 percent and Kansai dropped 0.1 percent. The
benchmark Topix index rose 1.9 percent.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tsuyoshi Inajima  in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
 Shigeru Sato  in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Uranium concentrate, commonly known as U3O8 or yellowcake in Kyzemshek, Kazakhstan. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
