-- Bonds Decline as Economy Recovery Signs, Stock Gains Sap Demand for Safety
-- Yasuhiko Seki
-- 2010-07-23T07:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/japan-s-bonds-may-fall-on-speculation-reports-to-signal-sustainable-growth.html

          
          
             Japan’s  bonds  fell, snapping a two-
day gain, as signs of a sustainable recovery in the world’s
second-largest economy cut demand for the safety of debt.  
 Benchmark   yields  climbed from a seven-year low before
reports next week forecast to show growth in Japan’s exports and
industrial production. Bonds dropped as Asian stocks extended a
global rally on optimism corporate earnings are recovering.  
 “The economy is not going to collapse, contrary to extreme
concerns that had engulfed the market recently,” said  Hirokata Kusaba , a senior economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Research Institute
Ltd., a unit of Japan’s second-largest banking group. “Bond
yields, which have fallen to current levels on such concerns,
are not sustainable.”  
 The yield of the benchmark 10-year bond rose one basis
point to 1.065 percent at 4:33 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
price of the 1.1 percent bond due June 2020 fell 0.090 yen to
100.313. Yields reached 1.045 percent yesterday, the lowest
since August 2003. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Ten-year bond futures for September delivery declined 0.18
to 141.69 yen at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  
 Japan’s  shipments abroad  rose for a seventh month, gaining
23.5 percent in June from a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists ahead of the data on July 26.
 Factory   output  increased for a fourth month, climbing 0.2
percent in June from May, a separate survey showed before the
July 30 data.  
 Overseas Bonds  
 The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 2.3 percent and the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares added 1.6 percent.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index climbed 2.3 percent yesterday
after AT&T Inc., United Parcel Service Inc. and EBay Inc.
reported quarterly earnings that surpassed analysts’ estimates.  
 Bonds also fell after the Ministry of Finance in Tokyo
reported that Japanese investors boosted net purchases of
overseas bonds to the most in 10 months.  
 Japanese investors bought 1.3 trillion yen ($15 billion)
more in overseas bonds and notes than they sold during the week
ended July 16, according to ministry data released today. That
was the most since the week ended Sept. 11, 2009.  
 “Given the shabby returns we can expect from rate
instruments in Japan, foreign bonds continue to draw decent
attention from Japanese investors,” said  Takashi Kudo , general
manager of market information at NTT SmartTrade Inc., a unit of
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. in Tokyo.  
 Yen, Deflation  
 Ten-year bonds completed a two-week advance on speculation
lingering deflation will encourage the central bank to continue
liquidity operations.  
 “There is no clear sign that Japan will come out of
deflation, while a strong yen adds to such pressure,” said
 Takeshi Minami , chief economist in Tokyo at Norinchukin Research
Institute Ltd. “The Bank of Japan is nowhere near the exit from
monetary easing, allowing bond yields to stay low.”  
 Consumer prices  excluding fresh food slid 1.1 percent in
June from a year ago after dropping 1.2 percent in the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey ahead of the July 30 data.  
 The yen changed hands at 87.05 per dollar, near a seven-
month high of 86.27 reached on July 16.  
 The country’s large manufacturers expect the yen to average
90.16 per dollar in the six months to March 2011, according to
the Bank of Japan’s quarterly Tankan survey released on July 1.  
 Close to Intervention  
 “Japan is close to foreign-exchange intervention, with the
pain threshold probably between 80 to 85 per dollar,” wrote
 Richard Jerram , Asian economics head at Macquarie Securities Ltd.
in Tokyo. “We would expect the Bank of Japan to accommodate any
intervention with a parallel expansion of its balance sheet, but
it is far from clear that even this would be effective.”  
 Vice Finance Minister Motoshisa Ikeda told reporters in
Tokyo yesterday that the government wants to “avoid excessive
gains in the yen.” The day before, Trade Minister Masayuki
Naoshima said the currency’s gains pose a risk to growth.  
 Japan’s government bonds returned 0.2 percent so far this
month, adding to a gain of 2.2 percent between January and June,
the best first half since 2001, according to an index compiled
by Bank of America Corp’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  
 Bond losses were limited on speculation the U.S. economic
recovery will slow as stimulus measures expire.  
 The Conference Board’s  confidence  index fell to 51.8 this
month from 52.9 in June, according to a survey before the July
27 data. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s
 business barometer  slid to 56.0 in July from 59.1 the previous
month, a separate survey showed before the July 30 report.  
 Yield Gap  
 “Shrinking yield gaps between Japan and the U.S. stemming
from concerns about the U.S. economy leave the risk of a strong
yen, which will add to the deflationary pressure in Japan,”
said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd.
in Tokyo. “The BOJ may need to take more action if the yen
appreciates to beyond 85 per dollar, thereby giving impetus for
yields to stay low.”  
 The premium on U.S. two-year swap rates over same-maturity
instruments in Japan dropped to as little as 34 basis points
this week, the narrowest since 1993.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        