-- Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Gain on Profit Outlook, Yen
-- Kotaro Tsunetomi
-- 2010-07-22T23:27:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/japanese-australian-stock-futures-gain-on-profit-outlook-yen.html

          
          
             Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  gained after U.S. companies raised earnings forecasts,
the dollar strengthened and commodity prices advanced.  
 American depositary receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., a
carmaker that gets about 30 percent of its sales from North
America, advanced 1.4 percent from the closing share price in
Tokyo. Those of  Canon Inc. , a camera maker that counts Europe as
its biggest market, climbed 2 percent after the euro
strengthened. ADRs of  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the world’s biggest
mining company, jumped 2.1 percent from the closing share price
in Sydney.  
 “Company earnings aren’t bad in the U.S. as well as in
Japan,” said  Juichi Wako , a senior strategist at Tokyo-based
Nomura Holdings Inc. “Investors will focus on the favorable
fundamentals and buy shares as they have been too pessimistic.”  
 Yen-denominated futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average
expiring in September closed at 9,345 in Chicago yesterday,
compared with 9,205 in Singapore. Futures were bid in the pre-
market at 9,350 in Osaka, Japan, at 8:05 a.m. local time.
Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 1.5 percent
today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.4 percent in Wellington.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.1 percent yesterday. The
gauge has slumped 10 percent from this year’s high on April 15
as Europe’s debt crisis and China’s steps to curb property
prices fueled concern that global economic growth will slow.
Speculation the U.S. economy will contract intensified as
reports pointed to a retreat in manufacturing and home sales.  
 Stocks in the Asian index are valued at 14 times estimated
earnings, compared with 13.3 times for the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  and 11.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600.  
 U.S. Earnings  
 Futures on the S&P 500 increased 0.1 percent today. In New
York yesterday, the index jumped 2.3 percent, the most in two
weeks, after companies from United Parcel Service Inc. to AT&T
Inc. increased profit forecasts.  
 UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, raised
its annual profit forecast, saying the U.S. economy will
continue to recover. AT&T Inc., the largest U.S. phone company,
reported second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as
customers snapped up wireless devices like Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  
 In Japan, Hitachi Ltd.’s first-quarter earnings were likely
better than expected on demand for electronic components for
cars, and semiconductor manufacturing equipment, Reuters
reported yesterday, citing Chairman Takashi Kawamura. Also,
Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-largest maker of earthmovers,
may further raise its earnings forecast for this fiscal year
“so long as China doesn’t collapse,” Chairman Masahiro Sakane
said.  
 The yen depreciated to as low as 87.18 against the dollar
today in Tokyo from 86.48 at yesterday’s close of stock trading,
boosting the value of overseas income at Japanese companies when
repatriated. Against the euro, the yen weakened to as low as
112.45 from 110.52 after a report showed Europe’s manufacturing
and services industry unexpectedly accelerated in July.  
 Crude oil for September delivery rallied 3.6 percent in New
York yesterday, the biggest increase since May 27. The London
Metal Exchange Index, a  measure  of six metals including copper
and zinc, rose 2.3 percent yesterday, a fourth day of gains.  
 To contact the reporters for this story:
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
 Kotaro Tsunetomi  at 
 ktsunetomi@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        