-- Japan Excludes Toyota Tsusho From Wheat, Rice Import Tenders for 3 Months
-- Aya Takada
-- 2010-07-22T04:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/japan-excludes-toyota-tsusho-from-wheat-rice-import-tenders-for-3-months.html

          
          
             Japan banned trading company  Toyota
Tsusho Corp . from participating in government tenders to import
wheat, rice and barley for three months because it sold U.S.
rice containing mold that was eventually consumed by humans.  
 The company imported the grain three years ago, which upon
inspection was found to contain some mold, the  Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries  said today in a statement.
Toyota Tsusho was allowed to keep the rice for feed or
industrial use, and sold it to a grain distributor, according to
the statement. The rice was used for human consumption after it
was again sold to a grain marketer, the statement said.  
 Illegal sales of tainted foreign rice rocked Japan two
years ago, leading to the resignation of then Agriculture
Minister  Seiichi Ota  and his deputy. The government has since
banned imports of contaminated grains, requiring trading
companies to destroy or ship them back to exporting countries.  
 The company “had an obligation to confirm the imported
rice was used as livestock feed in Japan,” Masachika Murai,
director at the ministry’s rice policy planning division, told
reporters today. The ban is effective today, he said.  
 Toyota Tsusho fell 1.3 percent to 1,259 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange at 1:21 p.m.  
 ‘Very Regrettable’  
 “It is very regrettable” that the rice was used for human
consumption, as “we sold it on the condition that it would be
used for feed,” the company said in a statement faxed to
Bloomberg News today.  
 The ministry will hold a regular tender today to buy
142,719 metric tons of U.S. milling wheat. Japan has so far
purchased 1.29 million tons of foreign milling wheat this fiscal
year, which began on April 1.  
 The government controls overseas purchases and domestic
sales of wheat, rice and barley to ensure supply stability and
protect local growers.  
 Toyota Tsusho, based in Nagoya city in central Japan,
imported the U.S. rice through a government tender designed for
the nation to comply with trade agreements. Japan’s quarantine
office in Yokohama port, near Tokyo, found the cargo was
contaminated with mold in June 2007.  
 Japan, self-sufficient in rice, is required to buy 770,000
tons of the grain annually under an accord with the World Trade
Organization as the nation agreed to give minimum market access
to exporting countries at the Uruguay Round of trade talks that
ended in December 1993.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        