-- Japan Wants to Avoid Excessive Yen Gains, Vice Finance Minister Ikeda Says
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-07-22T02:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/japan-wants-to-avoid-excessive-yen-gains-vice-finance-minister-ikeda-says.html

          
          
             Japanese Vice Finance Minister
 Motohisa Ikeda  indicated excessive yen strength is undesirable
as the nation’s currency advanced toward a seven-month high
against the dollar.  
 “Our growth strategy says we want to avoid excessive gains
in the yen,” Ikeda told reporters in Tokyo today, referring to
a report released last month.  
 Policy makers are voicing concerns about the stronger yen,
with Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  saying yesterday its
advance poses a risk to the nation’s expansion. National
Strategy Minister  Satoshi Arai  signaled the government may
consider additional economic stimulus measures.  
 “I can’t predict” what will happen when incentives to
purchase cars and electronics expire, Arai said at a press
conference in Tokyo yesterday. “We will need to examine the
overall state of the economy before deciding whether to
implement any stimulus measures.”  
 Japan’s currency has advanced 8 percent against the dollar
and 12.4 percent per euro in the past three months, clouding the
outlook for exporters that have driven the nation’s recovery
from its worst postwar recession. The gains have also driven a
16 percent slide in the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average .  
 The yen rose to 86.59 per dollar at 11:05 a.m. in Tokyo as
concern about the global recovery boosted demand for the
currency as a refuge. The Nikkei fell 0.7 percent, heading for
its fifth straight decline.  
 Bank of Japan Deputy Governor  Hirohide Yamaguchi  said
yesterday financial-market volatility has increased, while
adding the central bank won’t be compelled to take action based
on a specific exchange-rate level.  
 Data in the past month has pointed to gross domestic
product moderating with overseas shipments cooling, machinery
orders falling and unemployment rising.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        