-- Japanese Officials Step Up Concern About Rising Yen's Threat to Exporters
-- Toru Fujioka
-- 2010-07-22T08:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/japanese-officials-step-up-concern-about-rising-yen-s-threat-to-exporters.html

          
          
             Japanese officials stepped up their
concern about a rise in the yen that risks undermining
exporters, the main source of the nation’s economic recovery.  
 “We want to avoid excessive gains in the yen,” Vice
Finance Minister  Motohisa Ikeda  told reporters in Tokyo today,
referring to the government’s  economic growth  strategy released
last month. He spoke a day after Trade Minister  Masayuki Naoshima  said the currency’s gains pose a risk to the expansion.  
 Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s administration may press the
Bank of Japan to provide additional monetary easing measures to
stem the currency’s advance and support the recovery from the
country’s worst postwar  recession . The government may also
consider additional economic stimulus, National Strategy
Minister  Satoshi Arai  said yesterday, even as it pledges to
pare budget spending and bond sales.  
 “The pressure for the BOJ is likely to strengthen” if
the yen continues to significantly appreciate further, said
 Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist at Societe Generale SA in
Tokyo. “Government officials are indicating their willingness
to do more for the economy to show their vigilance, but it’s
unnecessary at this point as the recovery continues.”  
 The yen has climbed 8 percent against the dollar and 12
percent per euro in the past three months as concern about the
global recovery boosted demand for the currency as a refuge.
Its gains threaten exporters’ profit and competitiveness.  
 Seven-Month High  
 Japan’s currency approached a seven-month high against the
dollar today after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said the U.S. economic outlook remains “unusually uncertain.”
The yen traded at 86.56 per dollar at 5:12 p.m. in Tokyo and
reached 86.27 on July 16, the highest level since Dec. 1.  
 That’s stronger than the 92.90 average breakeven point
estimated by exporters. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 0.6
percent today, with  Canon Inc. , a camera maker that gets about
80 percent of its sales outside Japan, dropping 0.8 percent.  
 Exporters have driven Japan’s expansion as household
spending relies on government stimulus initiatives. The
government yesterday maintained its view that the economy is
“picking up steadily” while in a “difficult situation”
because of factors including high  unemployment .  
 Economy Minister Arai said at a briefing yesterday that he
“can’t predict” what will happen when incentives to purchase
cars and electronics expire later this year. “We will need to
examine the overall state of the economy before deciding
whether to implement any stimulus measures.”  
 Limited Room  
 The government’s room to do so is limited by its
undertaking last month to cap annual spending at 71 trillion
yen ($820 billion) and bond sales at 44.3 trillion yen over the
next three years to contain the world’s biggest  public debt .  
 Bank of Japan Deputy Governor  Hirohide Yamaguchi  said
yesterday that financial-market volatility has increased, while
adding the bank won’t be compelled to act based on a specific
exchange-rate level. “It takes a certain period of time for us
to judge the effect of the yen’s advance on corporate
activities and sentiment,” he said in Toyama, central Japan.  
 He said  business confidence  has “improved considerably”
and the threat of a double-dip recession has diminished since
the central bank unveiled a 10 trillion yen bank-loan program
at an emergency meeting on Dec. 1, days after the yen climbed
to a 14-year high of 84.83 against the dollar. The central bank
doubled the size of the facility in March.  
 Longer Loans  
 Okubo at Societe Generale said the central bank’s options
include expanding the period of the loans under that program to
six months from three months. He said the Finance Ministry is
unlikely to ask the Bank of Japan to intervene to sell the yen
because corporate sentiment is holding up.  
 Japanese authorities “would act more aggressively,
perhaps with intervention, if the yen strengthens too
rapidly,” said  Greg Gibbs , a currency strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc in Sydney. “But the trigger point appears to
be somewhat lower, maybe below 85.”  
 The Bank of Japan hasn’t stepped into the currency market
since it sold 14.8 trillion yen in the first three months of
2004. The yen has averaged 90.98 against the dollar in 2010,
putting it on course for the strongest annual level against the
greenback since currencies began trading freely in 1971,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Yamaguchi said the bank may explore further measures to
help improve the country’s growth prospects on top of a 3
trillion yen program unveiled last month to encourage lending.
Echoing remarks made by Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  last week,
he said upside and downside risks to the economy have been
rising while the recovery is gradually spreading to households.  
 Figures over the past month show the expansion may be
slowing. Export growth and  industrial production  moderated in
May, while the  jobless rate  climbed to a five-month high and
 consumer prices  continued falling.  
 “I don’t see a high chance of Japan’s recovery running
out of breath,” said Societe Generale’s Okubo. “We just need
to be careful about what’s coming out from overseas.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        