-- Kabel Deutschland Takes Aim at $1.29 Billion Market for Small Businesses
-- Ragnhild Kjetland
-- 2010-07-22T07:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/kabel-deutschland-aims-to-expand-in-1-billion-euro-small-business-market.html

          
          
             Kabel Deutschland Holding AG , will
increase average revenue per customer and sell Internet and
telephone services to businesses, taking market share from
Deutsche Telekom AG, its chief executive officer said.  
 “The market opportunity for us is over 1 billion euros
($1.29 billion),”  Adrian von Hammerstein  said in an interview,
referring to the market’s total revenue from home-office and
small and medium-sized businesses in the areas reached by his
company. Kabel Deutschland, Germany’s biggest cable-television
operator, had sales of 1.5 billion euros in the fiscal year
ending March 31.  
 German cable companies are far behind European peers in
average revenue per customer, mostly because they didn’t start
selling Internet and telephone services until much later, von
Hammerstein said. Kabel Deutschland had average revenue per user
of 12.1 euros ($15.55) at the  end of March , compared with an
average of 45 pounds ($68.74) for  Virgin Media Inc.  in the U.K.  
 The gap “represents opportunity for Kabel Deutschland,”
von Hammerstein said in the interview at the company’s
headquarters in Unterfoehring, north of Munich. “We’re very
confident that we can get to 20 euros by 2015.”  
 The main method for increasing average revenue “is
continuing to cross-sell new services into the customer base,”
and to start selling services to smaller businesses and home-
office users, von Hammerstein said. Kabel Deutschland had about
8.9 million customers at the end of March.  
 Business-to-Business  
 “We haven’t really focused on” the business-to-business
market, which has higher average revenue potential than the
retail customer market, von Hammerstein said.  
 As many potential small-business clients already take Kabel
Deutschland products for their private use, Kabel Deutschland is
well positioned to win customers, von Hammerstein said.  
 The CEO also aims to persuade more consumers to buy
Internet and phone services or increase their use of these
services.  
 In the fiscal year ending March 31, 12 percent of homes
 connected  to Kabel Deutschland’s network subscribed to its
Internet and phone services. By comparison, 31 percent of
European cable homes subscribed to Internet services and 24
percent subscribed to both phone and Internet services from
their cable operator at the end of 2009, according to Guy
Bisson, an analyst at Media Researcher  Screen Digest  in London.  
 Acquisition Strategy  
 “Because network business is by its very nature a scale
business, further consolidation of the German cable industry is
essential to fully unlocking this potential,” von Hammerstein
said. “Cable and the telecommunications companies have similar
capabilities, so there is no reason not to allow cable to
consolidate if you’re allowing telcos to consolidate.”  
 Kabel Deutschland has about 4 percent of the German
broadband market, while Deutsche Telekom has about half the
market, von Hammerstein said.  
 “We’ve always said we’re interested in consolidation
opportunities in our footprint,” von Hammerstein said. “Beyond
the purchase price, integrating any of these networks and their
customers would be quite smooth and wouldn’t require huge
investments to make it happen.”  
 German cable companies have faced little regulatory
resistance when buying smaller operators owning the last mile of
the cable connection into people’s homes, also known as level 4
operators.  
 For possible acquisitions, von Hammerstein pointed to level
4 operators, and other cable companies with their own trunk
lines that he called “network islands” within Kabel
Deutschland’s existing territories. These companies, which
include Pepcom GmbH, and the troubled cable operators Tele
Columbus GmbH and Primacom AG, could add as many as 2.5 million
customers to Kabel Deutschland’s total, he said.  
 High-Definition  
 Von Hammerstein said customers are “enthusiastically”
adopting digital TV services, such as high-definition options.  
 “We’ve seen a big uptake in demand for HDTV around the
World Cup,” von Hammerstein said. “That really got people
interested. They looked at their new flat-screen TVs and thought
’Wow, wouldn’t it be nice to have HD.’”  
 Another possible new source of income may come from
providing so-called backhaul-services, where the cable company
carries some of the data traffic that is straining phone
operators’ networks.  
 “It’s an opportunity that’s out there,” von Hammerstein
said, though so far he’s not “engaged” in backhaul activities.
“We’re looking at the opportunity.”  
 Kabel Deutschland will release results for the first
quarter of the fiscal year 2010/2011 on Aug. 24.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ragnhild Kjetland  in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        