-- Kenya's Safaricom Appoints Bob Collymore as CEO, Replacing Michael Joseph
-- Eric Ombok
-- 2010-07-22T14:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/kenya-s-safaricom-appoints-bob-collymore-as-ceo-replacing-michael-joseph.html

          
          
             Safaricom Ltd. , Kenya’s biggest
mobile-phone company, has named  Bob Collymore  to replace  Michael Joseph  as chief executive officer from Nov. 1.  
 Collymore, 52, was chief officer for corporate affairs at
Johannesburg-based Vodacom Group Ltd. before his new
appointment, Safaricom said in an e-mailed statement from the
capital, Nairobi, today.  
 Joseph, who has been chief executive officer of Safaricom
since it began operations in 2000, said in an April interview
that the 2008 initial public offering prospectus gave him the
option to retire at the end of 2009. Joseph would only leave the
company “when a successor is in place,” he said.  
 “We started with five people and we built this company to
what it is today. I can’t just walk away from this company,
which I consider to be my baby, with no successor in place,”
Joseph said.  
 He was directly contracted by  Vodafone Plc , which owns 40
percent of the Kenyan company. Before joining Vodafone, Joseph
worked for telecommunications companies in Hungary, Spain,
Brazil, Peru, Argentina, Korea, United States, Australia and the
Middle East, Safaricom said on its website. Vodacom is
controlled by Vodafone.  
 An American citizen with a bachelor of science degree in
electrical engineering from the University of Cape Town, Joseph
has specialized in license acquisition, construction of new
networks, turnaround management and start-up of new operations
during his career that spans over 40 years, Safaricom said.  
 Most Valuable  
 Kenya’s biggest company by  market value , Safaricom started
as a department of Kenya Posts & Telecommunications Corp., a
state-owned monopoly that was later transformed into Telkom
Kenya Ltd., Safaricom said.  
 The mobile-phone department was set up in 1993 based on an
analogue network that was upgraded to GSM technology in 1996.  
 Safaricom was incorporated in April 1997, awarded its
operating license in 1999 and began commercial operations in
October 2000, Safaricom said.  
 Safaricom competes with Telkom Kenya Ltd. a unit of  France
Telecom SA , India’s  Bharti Airtel  and Essar Telecom Kenya Ltd, a
unit of Essar Group of India.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Ombok  in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        