-- Kingfisher Sales Decline as Britons Reduce Spending on Bathrooms, Kitchens
-- Sarah Shannon
-- 2010-07-22T07:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/kingfisher-sales-decline-as-britons-reduce-spending-on-bathrooms-kitchens.html

          
          
             Kingfisher Plc , Europe’s largest
home-improvement retailer, said second-quarter sales declined as
the U.K. B&Q chain offered fewer promotions and Britons cut
spending on large items such as bathrooms and kitchens.  
 Revenue at stores open at least a year fell 0.8 percent,
excluding currency swings, in the 10 weeks ended July 10, the
London-based company said today in a statement. The decline was
led by the U.K., where same-store sales dropped 4.4 percent.  
 Consumer spending “remains under pressure, notably in the
U.K.,” Chief Executive Officer  Ian Cheshire  said in the
statement. British mortgage approvals fell in June as tighter
lending conditions and weaker confidence curbed housing demand,
according to preliminary Bank of England data.  
 “The U.K. is disappointing,”  Nick Bubb , an analyst at
Arden Partners, said by e-mail “We had hoped to see a small
positive” on sales growth. Bubb rates the shares “add.”  
 Kingfisher fell as much as 3.8 percent in London trading
and was down 6 pence, or 2.7 percent, to 217.5 pence as of 8:18
a.m. The  shares  have declined about 5 percent this year,
compared with the 18 percent drop of U.K. competitor Home Retail
Group Plc, owner of the Homebase chain.  
 Same-store sales in France, where Kingfisher owns the
Castorama and Brico Depot chains, climbed 2.6 percent.     “The
news is good on France, with sales up helped by a welcome swing
at the trade-oriented Brico Depot,” Arden’s Bubb said.  
 Poland, China  
 The drop in overall same-store  sales  follows a 1.8 percent
decline in the previous quarter.  
 “We continued to focus on carefully targeting our
promotions,” Cheshire said. “Our expectations for first half
cash and profit outturn remain on track.”  
 Same-store sales in Poland fell 4.2 percent in a “weak
market,” the retailer said.  
 In China, same-store revenue climbed 8.1 percent. Losses in
the country are being “reduced significantly” as the housing
market improves and the retailer offers services to renovate an
entire room. Staff who were previously funded by suppliers are
being replaced with B&Q-trained employees, Kingfisher said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sarah Shannon  in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        