-- KKR, Bain Seek $714 Million IPO for Chipmaker NXP After Losses Since 2006
-- Arik Hesseldahl
-- 2010-07-22T16:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/kkr-bain-seek-714-million-ipo-for-chipmaker-nxp-after-losses-since-2006.html

          
          
             NXP Semiconductors NV, the Dutch
chipmaker owned by  KKR & Co.  and Bain Capital LLC, is seeking to
raise as much as $714 million in a U.S. initial public offering.  
 NXP set terms today for an offering of 34 million shares at
$18 to $21 each, according to a filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. NXP, which has lost money every year since
being taken over in 2006 by private equity firms including KKR,
Bain and Apax Partners LLP, is selling a 14 percent stake.  
 The share sale would value NXP at $4.86 billion, based on
the midpoint offer price. Proceeds will be used to repay debt,
according to the filing.  
 Leveraged buyout firms are using IPOs to unload investments
and return money to clients after spending $2 trillion on
takeovers during the credit-market bubble. The 16 sales from
companies backed by LBO funds this year have fallen 3.5 percent
in the first month of trading, after averaging gains every year
since at least 2001, data compiled by Bloomberg and Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Renaissance Capital LLC show.  
 NXP was originally the semiconductor division of Dutch
electronics company  Royal Philips Electronics NV , which sold a
majority stake to the private equity firms in 2006 in what was
the biggest leveraged buyout in the chip industry’s history.
The Eindhoven, Netherlands-based company in 2009 reported sales
of $3.8 billion and a loss of $161 million.  
 The company makes chips that go into products as varied as
wireless handsets, automotive entertainment systems, and TVs.  
 NXP Customers  
 Customers in the handset business include Nokia Oyj, Apple
Inc., and Research In Motion Ltd., while Visteon Corp. and
Delphi Corp. are customers in the automotive industry. Market
research firm ISuppli said NXP was the top supplier of chips in
automotive infotainment systems, ahead of STMicroelectronics NV.  
 “NXP’s technology has always been first-class,” said
Malcolm Penn, an analyst with Future Horizons, a London-based
semiconductor market research firm. “If it had a problem it has
always been that its sales and marketing efforts are the pits.
If they could sell twice what they do, they’d be hugely
profitable.”  
 Credit Suisse Group AG of Zurich, and New York-based
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley are leading the sale
for NXP. The shares will trade on the  Nasdaq Stock Market  under
the ticker NXPI.  
 KKR is based in New York, Bain in Boston and Apax in
London.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
 Arik Hesseldahl  in New York at 
 ahesseldahl@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        