-- Korea Electric Power Posts Wider-Than-Expected Loss
-- Shinhye Kang
-- 2010-07-22T03:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/korea-electric-power-posts-wider-than-expected-loss-update2-.html

          
          
             Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) , supplier
of almost all the country’s electricity, posted a quarterly loss
that exceeded analyst estimates after fuel costs surged while
government-controlled tariffs remained unchanged.  
 The utility had a  loss  of 814.8 billion won ($675 million)
in the three months ended June 30, compared with a profit of
239.8 billion won a year earlier, according to a regulatory
filing today. The  median estimate  of eight analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was for a deficit of 528.5 billion won.  
 The government has kept power tariffs unchanged since June
last year to control inflation. Fuel expenses in the second
quarter jumped 34 percent from a year earlier as the cost of
importing natural gas, which accounts for about 46 percent of
total raw-material spending, more than doubled during the period,
according to Eugene Investment & Securities Co.  
 “LNG costs may be the biggest reason for the loss,” said
Kim Seung Woo, an analyst at Samsung Securities Co in  Seoul .
“While sales were higher, earnings for Korea Electric were
reduced without a price hike.”  
 Revenue gained 13.5 percent to 8.36 trillion won in the
second quarter from a year earlier. By volume, sales increased
7.7 percent as demand for electricity from computer-chip
producers and automakers rose, according to Eugene Investment.  
 Shares of the utility rose 0.3 percent to 32,000 won in
Seoul trading as of 12:03 p.m. local time. The benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI) 
index dropped 0.4 percent. Korea Electric has declined 5.9
percent this year.  
 “Korea Electric needs to raise power prices by 8 percent
by next year to turn profitable,” Kim said. “The bad earnings
in the quarter will push the government to allow a price hike in
the second half of this year.”  
 The energy ministry has said it may allow state-run
utilities to increase gas and power prices as early as the
second half. Korea Electric raised charges by an average 3.9
percent in June last year, the first increase since November
2008.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        