-- Kumba Reaches Interim Iron Ore Supply Deal With ArcelorMittal South Africa
-- Ron Derby
-- 2010-07-22T15:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/kumba-reaches-interim-iron-ore-supply-deal-with-arcelormittal-south-africa.html

          
          
             Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , a unit of Anglo
American Plc, said it reached an interim agreement for
deliveries of the steelmaking ingredient to  ArcelorMittal South
Africa Ltd.  while arbitration over a supply dispute continues.  
 Kumba, based in Pretoria, on March 1 canceled a nine-year-
old supply pact under which ArcelorMittal South Africa, a unit
of the  world’s largest steelmaker , bought iron ore at 3 percent
above the cost of production. The South African steelmaker has
since refused to pay the “market prices” it’s being charged,
according to Kumba. The dispute is now in arbitration.  
 Concerned about the impact of the dispute on South Africa’s
economy, Trade and Industry Minister  Rob Davies  held mediation
talks with the companies earlier this week.  
 The duration of the agreement will be retrospective, dating
back to March 1 and running until the end of July next year, the
companies said in a joint statement today.  
 The interim deal will allow ArcelorMittal South Africa to
keep its Saldanha steel plant operating and continue exporting
steel, it said. The steelmaker said on July 16 that it planned
to shut Saldanha and halt shipments as talks over the interim
supply agreement stalled.  
 Under the terms of today’s accord, ArcelorMittal South
Africa will pay $50 a metric ton for ore supplied to Saldanha on
the coast and $70 a ton for ore delivered to Newcastle in
KwaZulu-Natal and  Vanderbijlpark  near Johannesburg. There will
be no escalation in prices during the period, it said.  
 ‘A Good Deal’  
 Getting ore at these prices is “certainly a good deal”
for ArcelorMittal South Africa, said  Paul Theron , managing
director of Vestact fund managers, by phone from Johannesburg.  
 Shares  in the steelmaker rose for a third day, climbing
2.20 rand, or 2.8 percent, to 81.30 rand at the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg. Kumba advanced 3.5 percent to 375 rand.  
 ArcelorMittal South Africa, which employs 10,000 workers,
said last week that as many as 4,000 temporary and permanent
jobs could be lost as a result of closing Saldanha.  
 Saldanha is situated in one of the nation’s poorest areas,
on barren land 109 kilometers (68 miles) north of Cape Town. It
was opened in 1998 by formerly state-owned Iscor Ltd. and the
Industrial Development Corp., the state development agency.  
 “From a national perspective, it was important that an
interim supply deal was reached,” Vestact’s Theron said.  
 Earlier, Kumba said net income jumped 91 percent to 6.49
billion rand ($860 million) from a year earlier, boosted by
higher prices and exports. Kumba is the first of  Anglo
American’s  units to report results for the period.  
 The price of iron ore for immediate delivery jumped in
April after  Vale SA , the biggest supplier of the steelmaking
material, and  BHP Billiton Ltd. , the biggest miner, ended a 40-
year system of annual pricing in favor of short-term contracts
with Asian clients. Contracts in the second quarter were more
than 90 percent higher than in the first, Kumba said on July 9.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        