-- National Envelope Wins Court Approval to Sell Assets at Auction Next Month
-- Michael Bathon
-- 2010-07-22T23:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/national-envelope-wins-court-approval-to-sell-assets-at-auction-next-month.html

          
          
             National Envelope Corp., the largest
closely held envelope maker in the U.S., won court permission to
sell virtually all its assets at an auction next month.  
 U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Peter J. Walsh  approved guidelines
that will govern the Aug. 20 auction at a hearing today in
Wilmington, Delaware.  
 NEC, based in Uniondale, New York, filed for bankruptcy
protection last month listing assets and debt of as much as $500
million each, according to court documents. NEC said the
recession and increased use of e-mail cut sales, leading to more
than three years of losses.  
 Gores Group LLC will act as the stalking-horse, or lead,
bidder at the auction, with an opening bid of $134.5 million.
All other bids are due by Aug. 16, and a hearing to approve the
sale will be held Aug. 23, court papers show. Gores Group will
be entitled to a breakup fee of $2.65 million and reimbursement
of expenses totaling as much as $2 million.  
 NEC lawyers said Gores Group wouldn’t agree to be the
stalking horse without the breakup fee and reimbursements.
Cenveo Corp., NEC’s largest competitor, objected to the
protections, claiming they aren’t warranted.  
 “I don’t think it’s necessary for the creditors of the
estate to pay” for Gores Group to be the lead bidder, Kathryn
A. Coleman, a Cenveo attorney, told Walsh during the hearing.  
 Cenveo made a $140 million cash offer on June 30, court
papers show. “We believe we will submit the highest and best
offer” at the auction, Coleman said.  
 Cenveo and NEC together have about 40 percent of the $3.7
billion North American envelope  market , according to court
records that NEC filed at the start of its bankruptcy.  
 The lead case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        