-- Natural Gas Advances on Concern Storm May Disrupt Output in Gulf of Mexico
-- Moming Zhou
-- 2010-07-22T17:50:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/natural-gas-rises-as-storm-threatens-to-disrupt-output-in-gulf-of-mexico.html

          
          
             Natural gas futures jumped to a two-
week high after the National Hurricane Center said a tropical
depression may intensify, threatening gas and oil production in
the Gulf of Mexico.  
 Tropical storm warnings have been posted in the Bahamas and
South Florida. Gas supplies rose 51 billion cubic feet last
week, below the five-year average gain of 64 billion, an Energy
Department report today showed. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expected an increase of 50 billion, and a separate survey of
Bloomberg users showed an increase of 51 billion.  
 “People are watching that storm like a hawk,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “It’s keeping a little bit of a fear premium in gas right
now.”  
 Natural gas for August delivery rose 10.5 cents, or 2.3
percent, to $4.618 per million British thermal units at 1:22
p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices touched $4.719,
the highest level since July 7.  
 The stockpile total of 2.891 trillion cubic feet was 9.9
percent higher than the five-year average, narrower than a 10.7
percent gap the previous week, department data showed. The
deficit to year-earlier supplies widened to 1.8 percent from 1.1
percent.  
 A tropical depression has formed in the Atlantic about 405
miles (652 kilometers) east-southeast of Key Largo, Florida,
according to a  statement  released by the National Hurricane
Center at 11 a.m. in Miami.  
 Storm Forecast  
 The depression, with maximum sustained winds of 35 miles
per hour (56 kph), may become a tropical storm later today, the
center said. The next Atlantic storm will be named Bonnie.  
 This hurricane season, estimated by the government to be
the most active since 2005, may cut gas production in the Gulf
of Mexico by 166 billion cubic feet through November, according
to Energy Department estimates released on July 7.  
 Hurricane Alex, the  earliest  Atlantic hurricane since 1995,
cut off as much as  919 million cubic feet  of daily production
last month in the Gulf of Mexico, about 15 percent of regional
output, before it came ashore in Mexico.  
 “We’re less dependent on the Gulf of Mexico production”
than we used to be, said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research
at PFGBest in Chicago. “But, obviously, if you’re going take 11
percent of domestic production offline, we could start to see
that pad we have start to dwindle.”  
 Temperatures in the U.S. East Coast and Midwest will be
above normal from July 27 to July 31, according to  the National
Weather Service .  
 New York will have a high of 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35
Celsius) on July 24, 10 degrees above average, according to
AccuWeather Inc. Chicago’s temperature is forecast to hit 91.  
 About 23 percent of electricity is generated using natural
gas, according to the Energy Department.  
 Hotter Weather  
 Cooling requirements in the U.S. will be 24 percent higher
than normal from tomorrow through July 29, according to Weather
Derivatives of Belton, Missouri.  
 “Given the recent extraordinarily hot weather, you’re
getting injections that are quite small,” said  Jason Schenker ,
president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based
energy consultant. “The market implication is, could this
persist for a number of weeks and affect overall storage level
going into the fall?”  
 Stockpiles may rise to 3.81 trillion cubic feet by the end
of October, close to a record 3.837 trillion last November, the
Energy Department’s Short-Term Energy Outlook on July 7 showed.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Moming Zhou  in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
 Noah Buhayar  in New York at 
 buhayar@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        