-- Natura Second-Quarter Profit Jumps 14% as Brazil Consumer Demand Expands
-- Felipe Frisch
-- 2010-07-22T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/natura-second-quarter-profit-jumps-14-as-brazil-consumer-demand-expands.html

          
          
             Natura Cosmeticos SA , Brazil’s
largest cosmetics maker, said second-quarter profit increased by
14 percent as the country’s consumer demand expands.  
 Net income rose to 191.5 million reais ($107.5 million)
from 168.3 million reais a year earlier, the Cajamar, Brazil-
based company said in a regulatory filing. Earnings surpassed
the  average estimate  of 184.4 million reais in a Bloomberg
survey of eight analysts. Sales rose 24 percent to 1.28 billion
reais.  
 Natura is benefiting from the growth of lending and wages
in Latin America’s  largest economy , which fuels domestic demand
and is leading Brazil’s gross domestic product to expand at the
fastest pace in at least two decades. Retail sales rose 10
percent in May compared with a year earlier, the national
statistics agency said July 13.  
 Natura’s shares have risen by 10 percent since the start of
the year, while the  Ibovespa  index fell 6 percent.  
 Renato Prado , an analyst at Fator Corretora who has a
“buy” recommendation on the company, said Natura is finding it
hard to increase profits.  
 “They need a clearer perspective on where a more intense
improvement can come from. Their margins are strong and their
returns are very high,” he said in a telephone interview before
the results were announced. “They need some process of
improvement to see a strong appreciation on the stock.”  
 Prado forecasts the company’s operating margins will
increase 1 percentage point by 2016, while other companies
dependent on domestic demand, such as  BRF - Brasil Foods SA ,
could have an increase of 6 to 7 percentage points on their
margins for the period.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Felipe Frisch  in São Paulo 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        