-- New Zealand Consumer Confidence Fell to an 11-Month Low in July, ANZ Says
-- Tracy Withers
-- 2010-07-22T04:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/new-zealand-consumer-confidence-fell-a-second-month-in-july-anz-says.html

          
          
             New Zealand’s consumer confidence
declined to an 11-month low in July, adding to evidence that
weak spending and housing demand may curb economic growth.  
 Sentiment fell to 115.6 from 122 in June, according to an
 index  compiled by ANZ National Bank Ltd. and Roy Morgan Research.
That is the lowest since August and below the historical average,
Wellington-based ANZ said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Governor  Alan Bollard  last month raised the  official cash
rate  for the first time in three years and said he intended to
boost borrowing costs gradually to combat inflation pressures.
Finance Minister  Bill English , who will reduce income taxes in
October, said today that economic growth is rebalancing toward
exports as consumers are being more careful with their spending.  
 “It looks like households will remain cautious with their
spending for a while,” said  Khoon Goh , head of market economics
at ANZ National. “The negatives are outweighing the positives
in consumers’ minds at present.”  
 The 1,062 consumers surveyed are least optimistic about
current conditions, with 41 percent saying they are worse off
than a year ago, Goh said. Fewer said it is a good time to buy a
major household item, which “is not pointing to a big spending
surge that the retail sector had been hoping for,” he said.  
 Economic Outlook  
 Consumers are also less optimistic about future conditions,
with a net 3 percent expecting the economy to be better in a
year’s time, down from 18 percent in June. The net measure
subtracts pessimists from optimists.  
 The fall in July is the largest since October 2008,
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., and may
reflect a focus on global economic uncertainty, Goh said.  
 “While we do not think recent global concerns will have
anywhere near the same effect this time, consumers are clearly
getting worried,” he said.  
 All 15 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News expect
Bollard will raise the cash rate a quarter-point to 3 percent on
July 29. Goh is one of four economists who forecast at least one
pause at the remaining reviews in September, October and
December.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tracy Withers  in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        