-- New York Times Revenue Increases on Digital Ad Rise
-- Brett Pulley
-- 2010-07-22T20:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/new-york-times-reports-increase-in-revenue-on-digital-advertising-rise.html

          
          
             New York Times Co. , publisher of the
namesake newspaper, reported the first increase in quarterly
revenue in more than two years as digital advertising growth
helped offset a continued decline in print advertising.  
 Second-quarter revenue rose to $589.6 million from $584.5
million a year earlier, the company’s first year-over-year
increase since the third quarter of 2007. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had  expected  revenue to drop to $576 million.  
 Times Co. is benefiting as marketers boost spending
following last year’s advertising recession and an increasing
share of the money moves to the Internet, the company said.  
 “These numbers clearly demonstrate the positive impact of
transitioning into an increasingly multi-platform company,”
 Janet Robinson , chief executive officer, said on a conference
call. “Our healthy online growth is coming in multiple
categories--national display advertising, retail display
advertising and also real estate classified advertising.”  
 Digital advertising revenue surged 21 percent in the
quarter, reaching 26 percent of total ad revenue from 22 percent
a year earlier, the company said. Print advertising decreased 6
percent. Total ad revenue was $314.9 million, little unchanged
from the previous year, while circulation revenue rose 3.2
percent to $234.8 million.  
 “That was a hell of a quarter. The digital revenue just
exploded,” said  Ed Atorino , an analyst at Benchmark Co. in New
York, who recommends the shares. “Revenue was better than I
thought and the bottom line was better than I thought.”  
 Industry Struggles  
 Net income was $32 million, or 21 cents a share, compared
with $39.1 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier, the New York-
based company said today in a statement.  
 Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service raised Times Co.’s
corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings to B+, from
B, after the report, cited improving advertising revenue.  
 Industrywide, newspaper print advertising sales fell 11
percent to $5.25 billion in the first quarter of 2010, according
to  Newspaper Association of America  data. For 2009, newspaper
print advertising sales were down 29 percent from the previous
year, the lowest level since 1984.  
 Online newspaper ad sales, which account for about 10
percent of all ad revenue, were down 12 percent for 2009. In the
first quarter of 2010, online ad sales increased 4.9 percent to
$730.4 million, the first rise since 2008.  
 Times Co. rose 11 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $9.16, in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has declined 26
percent this year.  
 New Online Model  
 The New York Times is preparing to unveil in January its
new online subscription model, which will make much of its Web
content available only to visitors who pay fees for access. The
company is also planning to sell an enhanced application for
 Apple Inc. ’s iPad, which will be offered in addition to the free
app currently available on the device.  
 Revenue at Times Co.’s websites, including NYTimes.com,
About.com and Boston.com., increased 20.5 percent to $94.3
million. Internet advertising revenue at the websites increased
19.8 percent to $50.4 million, mainly due to growth in national
display advertising, the company said.  
 In April,  News Corp. ’s Wall Street Journal introduced a New
York City section to compete with the New York Times for local
advertising and readers. Robinson said last month the Times Co.
newspaper’s circulation was holding up to the competition.  
 On today’s conference call, Robinson declined to give her
opinion of the Journal’s new section. “Anyone can look at the
section and make their own judgment,” she said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brett Pulley  in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        