-- Newly Fired Workers Won't Get Health-Care Break Under Jobs Bill
-- Margaret Collins
-- 2010-07-22T18:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/newly-fired-u-s-workers-won-t-get-health-insurance-break-under-jobs-bill.html

          
          
             U.S. workers who lost their jobs as
of June 1 won’t be eligible for a 65 percent federal subsidy to
help pay for health insurance under an unemployment bill
Congress will send to President  Barack Obama  for signing.  
 Eligibility for the financial help expired May 31, meaning
workers who lost their jobs after that date don’t qualify. Those
already receiving the benefit may continue to pay reduced
premiums for up to  15 months , according to the Department of
Labor.  
 “If you’re unemployed you’re not in a position to be able
to pay for coverage of your family at full price,” said
Kathleen Stoll, director of health policy for Families USA, a
nonprofit, consumer-advocacy group based in Washington. “This
was a really important provision that put health-care coverage
within reach.”  
 The economic stimulus plan passed in February 2009 created
a subsidy covering 65 percent of fired employees’ monthly health
premiums. U.S. workers who are fired or resign from their jobs
generally can remain on their former employers’ health plan for
as long as 18 months under the 1986 law known as Cobra. They
typically pay the entire cost of coverage and a 2 percent
administrative fee. The subsidy meant the average family paid
$398 a month compared with $1,137, according to the Henry J.
Kaiser Family Foundation in Menlo Park, California.  
 “Now that the subsidy is gone there will be more people
who just won’t be able to afford coverage,” said Karyn
Schwartz, a senior policy analyst for Kaiser. They may be
unemployed for a long time and go uninsured, increasing the
chances they’ll have a health issue or miss out on preventive
care during that period, she said.  
 Long-Term Jobless  
 The number of long-term unemployed, or those jobless for 27
weeks or more, was  6.8 million  as of June, or 46 percent of
unemployed individuals, according to the Labor Department. More
Americans filed applications for unemployment benefits last
week, with initial jobless claims increasing by 37,000 from the
prior week to 464,000, Labor Department figures showed today.  
 The subsidy benefitted about 2 million households last year
at a cost of about $2 billion, according to the  Treasury
Department . Senators  Bob Casey , a Pennsylvania Democrat, and
 Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, introduced legislation last
month that would have extended the program to those fired
through Nov. 30, which would have cost an estimated  $6.8 billion 
over 10 years, according to a May report by Congress’s Joint
Committee on Taxation.  
 Lawmakers dropped the Cobra extension and other assistance
provisions in the jobless bill amid concerns over how to pay for
them.  
 House Vote  
 The legislation, which passed the Senate yesterday and the
House of Representatives today, would extend through November a
program offering the long-term unemployed up to 99 weeks of
assistance while providing aid retroactively to those whose
checks were cut off as lawmakers debated the measure.  
 Workers who lose their job and are no longer eligible for
the health-insurance subsidy should check if they or their
children may be eligible for other public aid such as  Medicaid 
and the  Children’s Health Insurance Program , said Kaiser’s
Schwartz. Also, those under age 26 who are fired may be able to
go on their parents’ health insurance plan starting Sept. 23 as
a result of the health-care overhaul signed by the president in
March, Schwartz said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     U.S. President Barack Obama. Photographer: Brendan Hoffman/Bloomberg  
                      
      

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
