-- Next Life: From Disney Sales to Swimwear
-- 
-- 2010-07-22T21:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/next-life-from-disney-sales-to-swimwear.html

          
          
                  July 22 (Bloomberg Businessweek) -- For many women of a
certain age, wearing a bathing suit in public is an exercise in
strategic camouflage. Such was the plight of Lynn Werner, who ran
video-game and software sales for Walt Disney's (DIS) West Coast
region until 2001, when she left to take care of her infant sons.
Werner dreaded lounging by the pool. "I was in Maui three years
ago, grabbing a towel to cover my legs every time I got up," she
recalls. She went to buy a pair of baggy board shorts, but the
female offerings were inappropriate for a woman in her 40s. "I
kept thinking," she says, "I've got to try to fix this."  
 Back home in Marin County, Calif., Werner decided to create
her own line of board shorts, with mix-and-match bikini and
tankini tops for more mature women. She took a course in fashion
design at San Francisco's Apparel Arts and contracted a freelance
design consultant. While Werner knew her experience in sales
could move the product, she admits "I didn't know how to get it
made."  
 It took her almost a year to discover the right microfiber
fabric in prints she liked, which she found at a trade show in
the South of France. Soon after, her relationship with her
pattern-maker fizzled; six months later she moved production to a
factory with better equipment. "Now I see what kind of thread you
need, the elastic, the lining," she says. "It's crazy how much
goes into each piece."  
 After three years in development, Lynnina Swimwear was
launched this June with more than 40 individual pieces—ranging
from $49 to $69—all made in Los Angeles. Werner's sales skills
have already paid off. After cold-calling from Werner, high-end
chain Canyon Beachwear began stocking its shelves with her
cougar-chic tankinis.  
 While Lynnina isn't profitable yet—Werner still underwrites
the company's costs herself—business has been strong enough that
she's contemplating taking out a line of credit. So far her only
employees are her twin sons, who help her package Lynnina's
online orders. There are also other, subtler measures of success.
"Now," she says, "I don't sit by the side of the pool with a
towel around me."  
 -----------------------------------------------------------------  
 DESIGNING WOMAN  
 Amount that Americans spent on swimwear in 2009: $4.3 bn  
 Number of freelance consultants used by Werner since 2007:
15  
 Number of swimsuits owned by the average woman in the U.S.:
4  
 Price range of suit separates in Lynnina's first collection:
$49-$69  
 Data: Lynnina, NPD Group 
 
          
          


  


        