-- Nigeria Sells $698 Million at Bond Sale, Biggest in at Least Five Months
-- Sam Olukoya
-- 2010-07-22T14:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/nigeria-sells-698-million-at-bond-sale-biggest-in-at-least-five-months.html

          
          
             Nigeria sold the largest amount of
bonds in at least five months at a sale where demand outstripped
supply as Nigerian banks seek to invest in “partially risk-
free” assets, Source Capital Nigeria Ltd. said.  
 The West African nation sold  105 billion naira  ($698
million) of bonds at its monthly sale yesterday, the Abuja-based
Debt Management Office said on its website today. That’s the
most since at least March, data from the website show.  
 “It is partially risk-free buying bonds, so  banks  are
looking for such risk-free avenues,” Kweku Brown, an analyst at
Lagos-based Source Capital, said by phone today. “The financial
crisis they faced last year makes it imperative for them to
become cautious with their money. So long as liquidity is high,
the sale of bonds will continue to rise.”  
 The Central Bank of Nigeria last year dismissed chief
executive officers of eight lenders that gave out non-performing
loans totaling 700 billion naira ($4.7 billion), and used 620
billion naira to bail the banks out.  
 Nigeria expects to clear $10 billion of lenders’ toxic
debts and purchases of this debt through state-owned Asset
Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, will cost “roughly” $5
billion, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said July 1. Amcon
will be funded through government-guaranteed bonds, he said.  
 Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer, plans to sell
867.5 billion naira of bonds this year to fund its budget
deficit,  Abraham Nwankwo , director-general of the DMO, said on Feb.
12. That’s the most since at least the  three months through June
last year , data from the website show.  
 The nation sold 35 billion naira of three-year bonds at a
marginal rate of 7.48 percent, 35 billion naira of five-year
securities at 8.85 percent and an equal amount of 20-year bonds
at a marginal rate of 10 percent at yesterday’s auction. Three-
year bonds were 2.1 times oversubscribed, while demand
outstripped supply on the five-year securities 1.8 times. The
20-year bonds were 2.1 times oversubscribed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sam Olukoya  in Lagos at 
 solukoya2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        