-- Nokia Earnings Fall as Apple IPhone Competition Increases
-- Diana ben-Aaron
-- 2010-07-22T15:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/nokia-profit-falls-as-apple-iphone-competition-increases.html

          
          
             Nokia Oyj ’s second-quarter profit
plunged on competition from Apple Inc.’s iPhone. Chief Executive
Officer  Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo  said a new device from the world’s
largest mobile-phone maker will “kick-start” its comeback.  
 Nokia, which last month cut its forecast for margins,
posted a steeper-than-expected 40 percent drop in net income to
227 million euros ($291 million), or 6 cents a share, from 380
million euros, or 10 cents, a year earlier.  Analysts had
predicted  profit of 285 million euros. Sales rose 0.9 percent to
10 billion euros. The Espoo, Finland-based company maintained
its outlook for margins for 2010.  
 “A lot of people including us were expecting the worst and
while things obviously aren’t great, this may be the eye of the
storm,” said  Michiel Plakman , who helps manage 7 billion euros
including Nokia shares at Rotterdam-based Robeco NV. “I’d
expected them to take their full-year guidance down and they
didn’t, so that leaves the third and fourth quarters as
cliffhangers as well.”  
 Nokia’s margins have suffered from its failure to bring out
a high-end handset to take on  Apple ’s iPhones and devices based
on Google Inc.’s Android software. It cut forecasts twice in
three months over delays in finishing the software for the N8,
its new flagship handset. Nokia shares have lost two-thirds of
their value since the iPhone’s June 2007 introduction, sparking
speculation Nokia may seek a new CEO to replace  Kallasvuo .  
 Nokia  rose as much as 5.9 percent and traded 2.6 percent
higher at 7.17 euros as of 6:04 p.m. in Helsinki. The stock has
plummeted from 28.60 euros in November 2007. By contrast,
Apple’s shares have more than doubled since it unveiled the
iPhone in June 2007.  
 Management  
 “There are two triggers for the share price,” said  Thomas Langer , a Duesseldorf-based analyst of WestLB. “One is the
introduction of the new devices which will probably take place
at Nokia World in September. And then there’s the big story
about potential management change.”  
 The Nokia board led by Chairman  Jorma Ollila  reshuffled
managers in May, shifting marketing chief  Anssi Vanjoki  to lead
smartphones and naming a new chief technology officer, former
Sun Microsystems executive  Rich Green . Investors and analysts
said the changes didn’t go far enough and called for Nokia to
make bigger alterations such as hiring a CEO who had worked for
a competitor and could bring change fast.  
 CEO Kallasvuo today said speculation on management changes
hurts Nokia. It “must be brought to an end one way or
another,” Kallasvuo said in an interview on CNBC, declining to
further comment.  
 New Device  
 Nokia has struggled to finish the N8, its first phone using
a revamped version of the Symbian software platform that has
served the company for the past decade. The company is
streamlining screens and menus to work faster on touch-screen
phones and integrate new features such as television channels.  
 “The Nokia N8, the first of our Symbian 3 devices, will
have a user experience superior to that of any smartphone Nokia
has created,” Kallasvuo said in today’s statement. He said
there were “further Symbian 3 smartphones that we are confident
will give the platform broader appeal and reach, and kick-start
Nokia’s fight back at the higher end of the market.”  
 Nokia’s smartphone market share remained at 41 percent and
its overall market share remained at 33 percent for the second
quarter in a row. The company shipped 111.1 million units, 8
percent more than last year, of which 24 million were
smartphones, a 42 percent increase.  
 Market Share  
 “The shares may be up on expectations of a new CEO and
stabler smartphone volumes,” said  Neil Mawston , a London-based
analyst with Strategy Analytics. “The only positive was the
smartphone volumes were relatively high, holding share around
that psychologically important 40 percent level.”  
 The third-quarter margin for handsets will be between 7 and
10 percent on sales of 6.7 billion euros to 7.2 billion euros,
the company said.  
 It estimates a full-year margin of 10 percent to 11
percent. It previously said the margin would be “at the low end
or slightly below” a range of 11 to 13 percent.  
 “It’s really a ‘prove me’ story in the fourth quarter,”
said  Scott Shiffman , a credit analyst with Chapdelaine Credit
Partners in New York City. “Nokia has a track record of
misreading the mobile-device marketplace and even if they
execute 100 percent perfectly we still think it’ll be hard to
compete with Apple and Android devices.”  
 The average selling price for Nokia handset declined to 143
euros for smartphones from 181 euros a year ago. The average for
all its phones fell to 61 euros from 64 euros.  
 Apple, Google  
 Nokia “has single A credit ratings currently but we think
it has a business profile more representative of a triple-B
company and we think over the next 12 to 18 months ratings will
continue to slip down to the triple B category as business risk
rises,” said Shiffman.  
 Apple shipped 8.4 million iPhones in the most recent
quarter and reaped average revenue of $635 per unit including
extras. The Cupertino, California company this week reported a
78 percent jump in profit in the three months ended June 26 to
$3.25 billion, beating analysts’ estimates, as customers flocked
to the iPad tablet computer and the latest version of the
iPhone. Sales surged 61 percent.  
 Industry smartphone sales grew 49 percent in the first
quarter, according to industry researcher Gartner Inc., with
Nokia’s Symbian phones declining by more than 4 percentage
points as Apple and Google Inc.’s Android operating system
gained.  
 In the latest period, the Nokia Siemens Networks joint
venture with Siemens AG reported an operating loss of 179
million euros, roughly the same as last year. Nokia said the
unit will maintain its market share in 2010, rather than
outpacing the market as had been forecast previously.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Diana ben-Aaron  in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Nokia OYJ CEO Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A customer tries out the Apple Inc. iPhone 4 smart phone. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Nokia's new flagship handset the N8. Source: Nokia via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
