-- North Korea Denounces `Hostile' Sanctions by U.S., Urges Six-Party Talks
-- Bomi Lim
-- 2010-07-22T07:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/north-korea-says-latest-u-s-sanctions-are-tantamount-to-hostile-policy-.html

          
          
             North Korea  denounced new U.S.
sanctions against its regime and said next week’s naval
exercises involving South Korean and American forces posed a
threat to regional peace.  
 “The sanctions are a direct expression of intensified
hostility,” Ri Tong Il, a member of North Korea’s delegation to
Asia’s biggest security forum in Hanoi, said today. “The U.S.
should make concrete steps toward engaging in dialogue if it is
serious about ridding the Korean peninsula of nuclear weapons.”  
 Ri’s comments coincided with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ’s arrival in the Vietnamese capital to attend the same
 Asean  Regional Forum. Clinton announced the trade restrictions
against North Korea yesterday during a visit to Seoul, where she
urged the regime to acknowledge that it sank a South Korean
warship in March, killing 46 sailors.  
 North Korea’s criticism follows China’s objection to the
planned drills involving 20 vessels and 200 aircraft off South
Korea’s east coast. China’s willingness to mediate in North
Korean affairs will be diminished by the military maneuvers in
waters near its territory, said Paik Hak Soon, director of
inter-Korean relations at the Seongnam, South Korea-based Sejong
Institute.  
 “The U.S. is showing no intention of engaging in talks
with North Korea,” Paik said by telephone. “China will be
pushed more toward supporting North Korea in face of the
strengthening U.S. alliance with South Korea and Japan.”  
 Six-Party Talks  
 North Korea remains committed to returning to the six-party
talks with China, Japan, Russia, South Korea and the U.S. on its
nuclear weapons program, Ri said. All members of that group,
which hasn’t met since December 2008, will be at tomorrow’s
conference.  
 South Korean Foreign Minister  Yu Myung Hwan  has rejected
the offer of talks as a ploy to divert attention from the attack
on the corvette Cheonan, which an international panel blamed on
 Kim Jong Il ’s regime. The United Nations Security Council
adopted a statement this month condemning the attack, without
naming North Korea as the culprit.  
 China hasn’t blamed North Korea for the March 26 attack.
North Korea denies responsibility and has demanded a joint probe
of the incident with South Korea.  
 Clinton said yesterday the new sanctions will target
government officials and the foreign banks that help sustain the
country’s weapons industry. North Korea’s economy has been
battered by existing trade restrictions, including those imposed
by the UN after nuclear tests in 2006 and last year.  
 ‘Grave Threat’  
 North Korean Foreign Minister  Pak Ui Chun  arrived in Hanoi
last night and held bilateral meetings with his counterparts
from China and Thailand today. He declined to comment to
reporters.  
 The U.S. and South Korea, which fought against North Korea
during the 1950-53 war, plan to hold more exercises in coming
months.  
 China is “firmly opposed” to any threatening foreign
military activities in waters off its shores, the foreign
ministry said yesterday in a statement on its website. All
parties should refrain from actions that might increase tensions
on the Korean peninsula, the statement said.  
 “The joint military drills are not only a grave threat to
peace and stability of the Korean peninsula, but also the region
as a whole,” Ri said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Hanoi at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hillary Clinton, U.S. secretary of state  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hillary Clinton, U.S. secretary of state, speaks at a luncheon in Hanoi. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hillary Clinton, U.S. secretary of state, speaks at a luncheon in Hanoi. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
