-- Nucor Posts Third Straight Quarterly Profit as Steel Prices, Demand Gain
-- Jack Kaskey
-- 2010-07-22T14:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/nucor-posts-third-straight-quarterly-profit-as-steel-prices-demand-gain.html

          
          
             Nucor Corp. , the largest U.S.
steelmaker, reported its third consecutive quarterly profit as
higher metal prices and increased demand boosted sales.  
 Net income  was $91 million, or 29 cents a share, in the
second quarter, compared with a loss of $133.3 million, or 43
cents, a year earlier, Charlotte, North Carolina-based Nucor
said today in a statement. The results beat the 25-cent  average
estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales surged 69
percent to $4.2 billion.  
 Nucor, led by Chief Executive Officer  Dan DiMicco , ran its
mills at 71 percent of capacity, compared with 46 percent a year
earlier. Steel shipments rose 53 percent from a year earlier and
prices increased 25 percent.  
 “The quality of earnings was very good,”  Michelle Applebaum , who runs a Chicago-based equity research company,
said today in a telephone interview. “It was a strong volume
quarter, particularly in the flat-rolled side, and they had good
pricing.” She rates the shares “buy.”  
 Nucor  rose  $1.04, or 2.7 percent, to $40.15 as of 10:52
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The shares 
dropped 16 percent this year through yesterday.  
 Nucor cautioned that profit gains may not continue.  
 “There is a general slowdown taking place across all
product lines as the overall economy has entered into a new
period of uncertainty,” Nucor said in the statement. “This is
the case both in the U.S. and globally.”  
 Third Quarter  
 The company’s outlook reflects slowing demand in China and
steel prices that have declined since June, Applebaum said.
Earnings probably will fall short of analysts’ average third-
quarter estimate, which calls for profit to rise from the second
quarter to 43 cents a share, she said.  
 “At best, it could be a flat quarter,” Applebaum said.  
 Average second-quarter prices for  hot-rolled steel coil , a
benchmark product used in cars and buildings, were 71 percent
higher than a year earlier, according to data compiled by Metal
Bulletin. The price has slipped 12 percent since the beginning
of June.  
 The company’s inventory accounting method reduced second-
quarter profit by $67 million, more than the $47 million Nucor
estimated June 15.  
 Previous Losses  
 Nucor posted consecutive  losses  through the first three
quarters of 2009 before returning to profit in the final three
months of the year.  
 Nucor is the largest steelmaker based in the U.S. ranked by
market capitalization.  
 Earlier this week, Steel Dynamics Inc., the third-biggest
U.S. steelmaker by market value, reported second-quarter profit
that trailed analysts’ estimates. Falling prices for scrap metal
hurt the recycling unit and steel shipments fell from the first
quarter, Steel Dynamics said.  
 U.S. Steel Corp. , the second-biggest U.S.-based steelmaker,
and West Chester, Ohio-based AK Steel Holding Corp. are
scheduled to report quarterly results on July 27.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Kaskey  in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        