-- Obama Administration Apologizes, Offers to Rehire Ousted USDA Official
-- Alan Bjerga
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/obama-administration-apologizes-offers-to-rehire-ousted-usda-official.html

          
          
             Agriculture Secretary  Tom Vilsack 
personally apologized to the black USDA employee he ousted after
a furor over an edited videotape of remarks she made in a March
speech, saying he “did not handle this situation well.”  
 Vilsack said yesterday he called  Shirley Sherrod  to extend
“my personal and profound apologies” and that he took full
responsibility for turmoil caused when he demanded her
resignation without fully investigating the circumstances. He
also extended a job offer to Sherrod, 62, who had been the
agency’s director of rural development for Georgia.  
 “This is a good woman; she’s been put through hell,”
Vilsack said at a news conference in Washington. “I could have
done and should have done a better job.”  
 President  Barack Obama ’s chief spokesman,  Robert Gibbs ,
earlier issued an apology on behalf of the administration and
said “a disservice” was done to Sherrod.  
 The controversy stemmed from a portion of a speech she gave
at an NAACP banquet in March in Georgia. In it, she was telling
an anecdote about having an initial meeting with a white farmer
who had acted “superior to me,” and as a result she initially
didn’t “give him the full force of what I could do” to help
him.  
 That clip was highlighted July 19 by the website
biggovernment.com and was posted on YouTube.com. The  NAACP , the
nation’s oldest civil rights organization, initially condemned
her remarks, and Vilsack asked for her resignation that night.  
 Seeking Forgiveness  
 Vilsack said the White House didn’t pressure him to seek
Sherrod’s resignation.  
 “This was my decision and I made it in haste,” Vilsack
said. “I asked for Shirley’s forgiveness, and she was gracious
enough to extend it to me.”  
 The incident she was speaking about occurred in 1986 when
she was working for a nonprofit agency, not the USDA. In the
 full version  of her speech, she talks about how that experience
caused her to realize that the issue was about the “haves and
have nots” and not white versus black. She said she worked hard
“calling everybody I could think of” to help the man save his
farm, a statement corroborated by the farmer.  
 After viewing the full video and speaking to Sherrod and
the white farmer she mentioned in her remarks, NAACP President
and Chief Executive Officer  Benjamin Todd Jealous  said in a
 statement  July 20 that he believes the organization was
“snookered” by those who circulated the edited clip.  
 ‘Friend for Life’  
 Eloise Spooner, the wife of the farmer, said in an
interview with the  Atlanta Journal-Constitution  that Sherrod
helped the couple keep their land when they faced bankruptcy in
1986 and that they consider her a “friend for life.”  
 Posting of the video coincided with the NAACP’s call to
leaders of the Tea Party movement to “repudiate those in their
ranks who use racist language in their signs and speeches.”  
 Vilsack said he offered to rehire Sherrod at the USDA in a
position that would use her “extraordinary” background to
assist the agency as it tries to improve its record on race
relations.  
 “She asked for the opportunity to think about it,” he
said.  
 Vilsack vowed to rectify the USDA’s history of
discrimination claims when he took office last year, a priority
he said contributed to the haste of his decision.  
 The White House in May added $1.15 billion to a fund meant
to settle claims made under the Pigford v. Glickman
discrimination lawsuit filed by black farmers against the
Department of Agriculture alleging biased treatment in USDA
programs.  
 Discrimination Claim  
 Sherrod has been a discrimination claimant against USDA,
Vilsack said. According to the website of the Rural Development
Leadership Network, a group based in New York that organizes the
rural poor,  Sherrod last year  led a group that won a $13 million
settlement as part of Pigford. She received $150,000.  
 John Boyd , president of the National Black Farmers
Association, said the incident is an opportunity for Obama to
take a “stronger look” at race relations in the country.  
 “These things are going to continue to arise if we don’t
have a real race dialogue in this country,” Boyd said in an
interview. “The Sherrod issue is a moment in our country where
everyone can learn from this and not prejudge.”  
 Boyd said the Obama administration should have used its
resources to look at the unedited footage. “Mistakes happen,”
he said.  
 Black farmers have made allegations of unfair treatment by
the U.S. government for decades, saying the bias has contributed
to the small number of blacks in agriculture. While African
Americans make up 13 percent of the U.S. population, they
operate about 1.5 percent of the nation’s farms, according to
the USDA.  
 In the Pigford v. Glickman settlement, the USDA admitted
bias against black farmers between 1983 and 1997. The government
said it treated African Americans unfairly when deciding how to
allocate farm loans and disaster payments and acknowledged that
it failed to process earlier discrimination complaints.  Dan Glickman  was secretary of agriculture under President  Bill Clinton.   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Bjerga  in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        