-- Obama Weighs Austerity With U.K. Stiff Upper Lip: Mark Gilbert
-- Mark Gilbert
-- 2010-07-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/obama-weighs-austerity-with-stiff-upper-lip-commentary-by-mark-gilbert.html

          
          
             For such charismatic guys,  Barack Obama  and  David Cameron  make an awfully chilly pair. At the
first White House news conference between the American President
and British Prime Minister, their divisions ran deeper than
whether beer should be served warm or cold.  
 Cameron acknowledged the legitimacy of U.S. anger over BP’s
oil catastrophe while defending the company’s right to life.
(Obama wants to keep BP alive, too -- so he can extract cleanup
costs.) Obama praised Cameron’s condemnation of the Scottish
Parliament’s decision to free Lockerbie bomber Abdel Basset Ali Al-Megrahi, but in tones that suggested the U.K. still has a
long way to go to make amends. Their real flash point, though,
concerns economic priorities.  
 Obama, widely seen as governing from the left, is
struggling in the polls because of it. Cameron will remain prime
minister only so long as he can reconcile his right-wing
instincts with the more centrist approach of his Liberal
Democrat coalition partners. Yet both are coming to the same
realization: Plugging their economies into the life-support
system of central bank liquidity and massive government stimulus
packages was the easy part.  
 The tough question is how long their governments should
stand in for a private sector too nervous about the future to
invest and hire. With the world economy threatening to slide
into a double-dip recession, both the U.S. and the U.K. are
nevertheless talking about fiscal austerity. The only good news
for Obama is that Cameron is going first.  
 40 Percent Cuts  
 If his nerve holds, Cameron is about to embark upon an
unprecedented experiment. He has told government departments to
brace for spending cuts of as much as 40 percent as he seeks to
shrink both the U.K.’s record budget deficit and a public sector
that now accounts for almost 20 percent of all U.K. jobs.  
 With the biggest deficit among Group of Seven nations and
the worst looming shortfall in  Europe  this year according to
European Union forecasts, the U.K. doesn’t want to be the next  Greece . Less than a minute into a June 22 budget speech,
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne suggested that bond
vigilantes are driving U.K. economic policy. “Questions that
were asked about the liquidity and solvency of banking systems
are now being asked of the liquidity and solvency of some of the
governments that stand behind those banks,” he said. “I do not
want those questions ever to be asked of this country.” Most
governments, with apologies to Saint Augustine, would offer a
prayer to “make me austere, but not yet.”  
 ‘Begin in Earnest’  
 As Marco Annunziata, the chief economist at UniCredit Group
in  London , puts it: “The austerity debate is now not about
whether fiscal tightening in advanced economies is necessary,
but on when it should begin in earnest.”  
 That’s why policy makers around the world will be watching
Britain -- especially those at the  Federal Reserve , which is not
yet ready to follow Osborne’s lead. The Fed’s colors are still
tied to the mast of maintaining stimulus and keeping borrowing
costs as close to zero as possible. At its June 22-23 meeting,
the Fed said it would even “need to consider whether further
policy stimulus might become appropriate if the outlook were to
worsen appreciably.”  
 Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  is concerned that what  John Maynard Keynes  dubbed the paradox of thrift may kick in if
austerity packages are adopted too swiftly and severely. The
20th century British economist, whose work provided much of the
blueprint 21st century governments used to drag their countries
out of recession, argued that while it makes sense for one or
two constituents of a community to save prudently, growth
collapses if all of the members simultaneously abstain from
spending. Too many governments curbing spending and raising
taxes in parallel would snuff out the nascent recovery.  
 ‘Common Language’  
 Asked about the U.K.’s austerity plans with Cameron at his
side, Obama sounded reliably Keynesian, repeating a warning he
had delivered to the Group of 20 nations in April: The world, he
said, cannot rely on “an economic model in which the U.S.
borrows, consumers in the U.S. borrow, we take out  home equity
loans , we run up credit cards to purchase goods from all around
the world. We cannot alone be the economic engine for the rest
of the world’s growth.” No wonder Obama delivered the line “we
speak a common language most of the time” without discernible
humor.  
 Waning Confidence  
 He knows that neither the American nor the British consumer
is ready to spend.  Consumer confidence  has dipped, slumping in
July to its lowest level in a year in the U.S. and worse than
even the most pessimistic forecast of economists. Confidence in
Britain is at a six-month low. The housing market remains
petrified in both nations. Without an improvement in consumer
trust, government aid can’t be removed without risking a
relapse.  
 Yet that is Cameron’s plan. He has a window of opportunity
to push it through by claiming to be cleaning up the mess left
by Gordon Brown’s administration (just as Obama blames  George W. Bush  every chance he gets). U.K. government employees, long
willing to accept lower wages in return for  job security  and
lucrative pensions, are horrified at the ax heading their way.  
 The  Office for Budget Responsibility , a unit created by
Cameron to give spin-free assessments of the economy, is
predicting 610,000 job cuts in the public sector during the next
five years -- 11 percent of the total public workforce. That
would leave 4.92 million workers on the government payroll out
of a total of 30 million employed Britons. With so many job
cuts, Cameron could find himself coping with  strike action  on a
scale not seen since  Margaret Thatcher  neutered the nation’s
private-sector unions.  
 Empty Threats  
 The banking industry, meanwhile, is crying foul at the
prospect of bonus caps and a top income-tax rate that will climb
to 50 percent from 40 percent. Threats to leave for  Switzerland 
may prove more than empty.  
 Cameron, though, has only detailed about half of his
planned spending cuts, leaving most of the electorate in the
dark about where the ax will fall and his coalition partners
nervous about their re-election prospects once their
constituents recognize the Faustian pact they’ve made in
exchange for a handful of ministerial positions.  
 To have any chance at success, he’ll have to keep Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , whose Liberal Democrats have enough
Parliamentary seats to hold the balance of power, on his side.
But Clegg, who agreed to Cameron’s icy austerity plan over the
objections of many Lib Dem members, has seen his support among
voters slump by five percentage points, to 16 percent, since the
budget details were released, according to polls by ICM Research
and YouGov. Sixty percent of respondents opposed plans to
increase the U.K. sales tax to 20 percent from 17.5 percent, the
ICM survey showed.  
 Rating Cut  
 The path Cameron is charting is so arduous, and public
opposition is likely to become so intense, that rating agency
Standard & Poor’s isn’t convinced he can deliver and has even
said it may cut the U.K.’s credit rating.  
 “A number of large and politically challenging spending
decisions are still to be made,” it said on July 12. “There is
still a material risk that the U.K.’s net general government
debt burden may approach a level incompatible with the ‘AAA’
rating.”  
 The rating agencies have been working their way through the
list of profligate EU governments in recent months, starting
with the worst offender, Greece, and then cutting the credit
grades of other indebted nations, including Ireland,  Portugal ,
and  Spain .  
 If Cameron blinks, the U.K. may be next. If he forges
ahead, there is a real chance that Britain returns to a
recession. Neither scenario is cheery -- and neither is beyond
imagining for the U.S. Which is why Obama, as he thinks long and
hard about whether to embrace austerity or risk the
embarrassment of the U.S. losing its AAA rating, is already
adopting another durable British invention: the stiff upper lip.  
   Mark Gilbert , author of “Complicit: How Greed and
Collusion Made the Credit Crisis Unstoppable,” is the London
bureau chief and a columnist for Bloomberg News. A version of
this column appears in the July 26 edition of Bloomberg
Businessweek. The opinions expressed are his own.)  
 To contact the writer of this column:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Eric Pooley at   epooley2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        