-- Offshore Drill Regulators' Industry Links Raise Conflicts, Watchdog Says
-- Jim Efstathiou Jr.
-- 2010-07-22T15:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/offshore-drill-regulators-industry-links-raise-conflicts-watchdog-says.html

          
          
             Regulators overseeing U.S. offshore
drilling move too easily between government and industry,
raising potential conflicts of interest, the Interior
Department’s acting inspector general said.  
 Relationships between the regulators and industry officials
in some cases were forged in childhood, acting Inspector General
Mary Kendall told the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee today.  BP Plc ’s Gulf of Mexico oil spill exposed
ethical lapses within the department, said committee Chairman
 Edolphus Towns , a New York Democrat.  
 After the April 20 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig leased by BP, President  Barack Obama  urged Interior
Secretary  Ken Salazar  and Congress to boost oversight of
offshore drilling and end its “cozy” relationship with
regulators. Kendall said it is “hard to fathom” that industry
officials still fraternize and give gifts to federal employees.  
 “I am concerned about the environment in which these
federal employees operate, and the ease in which they move
between government and industry,” Kendall said. “I am also
concerned about the conduct of industry representatives.”  
 In 2008, Inspector General  Earl Devaney  found that
employees in Interior’s Minerals Management Service, the
division that gathers drilling fees, had sex with and accepted
gifts from industry contacts while failing to collect almost
$200 million due from energy companies. The allegations led
Salazar to scrap a program that accepted payment of drilling
fees in oil and gas instead of cash.  
 Investigations Expanded  
 The Gulf spill prompted Kendall to expand probes into
potential conflicts of interest to include officials changed
with environmental, safety, inspection and enforcement.  
 “The Deepwater Horizon disaster has now exposed what
appears to be continuing, major problems at MMS,” Towns said.
“Over the last decade, MMS has essentially permitted the oil
industry to police itself. The Deepwater Horizon disaster
suggests this might not be the most effective approach to
ensuring safe offshore drilling.’  
 Salazar announced in May that he would rename and break up
MMS into three units, including the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management and the Office of Natural Resources Revenue.  
 “We are dividing up the agency into different units so
that the revenue function, the dollar collectors, will be
separate from those in charge of granting the leases and doing
enforcement,” Salazar said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        