-- Hogs Advance as Pork-Price Jump Shows Demand Gain; Cattle Little Changed
-- Whitney McFerron
-- 2010-07-22T19:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/hogs-advance-as-pork-price-jump-shows-demand-gain-cattle-little-changed.html

          
          
             Hog futures rose for the second
straight day as a jump in U.S. pork prices signaled meat demand
is outpacing supplies. Cattle fell.  
 Wholesale pork  gained 1.5 percent yesterday to 84.03 cents
a pound, the highest level since June 24, government data show.
Meatpackers processed 1.571 million hogs in the first four days
of this week, down 1.6 percent from the same time last week. The
U.S. hog herd was 3.6 percent smaller on June 1 than a year
earlier after losses spurred farmers to cut output.  
 “The tighter supply is still an underlying support,” said
 Lawrence Kane , a market adviser at Stewart-Peterson Group in
Yates City, Illinois. “Retailers may anticipate some demand
coming back because we’re looking for Midwest temperatures to be
a little better after this hot weekend.”  
 Hog futures for October settlement rose 0.775 cent, or 1
percent, to 76.4 cents a pound on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. The price jumped 1.5 percent yesterday. The most-
active contract has climbed 33 percent in the past year.  
 After livestock markets closed, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture  reported  that U.S. pork stockpiles shrank 29 percent
in June from a year earlier as production declined and exports
rebounded. The figure matched the average estimate of two
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before the report.  
 Cattle Market  
 Cattle futures for October delivery fell 0.525 cent, or 0.6
percent, to 94.4 cents a pound, ending a seven-session rally.
Feeder-cattle futures for August settlement rose 0.25 cent, or
0.2 percent, to $1.149 a pound.  
 U.S. feedlots boosted purchases of young cattle in June by
19 percent from a year earlier as five straight profitable
months encouraged operators to expand, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of 12 analysts. The USDA will release feedlot-
inventory estimates tomorrow.  
 Cattle placed onto feedlots in June may be ready for
slaughter from December through February, Kane said.  
 Futures pared losses on speculation that hot weather in the
southern Great Plains will curb cattle weights, reducing beef
supplies, Kane said. Heat indexes in Kansas, Oklahoma and
Missouri may reach 110 degrees Fahrenheit (43 Celsius) today,
according to the  National Weather Service .  
 “Upper 90s to 100-degree temperatures with unusually high
humidity, that’s stressful on animals,” Kane said. “When they
get hot, all they do is hang around the water trough. If they’re
standing by the water trough, that means they’re not standing by
the feed trough and gaining weight.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        