-- Onex Hires Yang for Debt-Investment Business in Expansion Beyond Takeovers
-- Kristen Haunss
-- 2010-07-22T15:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/onex-hires-yang-for-debt-investment-business-in-expansion-beyond-takeovers.html

          
          
             Onex Corp. , Canada’s biggest buyout
firm, hired  Jack Yang  to help run its credit investment
business, as it seeks to expand beyond  takeovers .  
 Yang, 49, a former head of business development at Highland
Capital Management LP, is the managing partner of Onex Credit
Partners LLC, said  Andrew Sheiner , managing director at Toronto-
based Onex. Yang will launch new funds, develop infrastructure
and risk management and participate in investment activities, he
said today in a telephone interview.  
 Onex Chief Executive Officer  Gerald Schwartz  started the
credit arm in November 2007 by acquiring a stake in debt manager
GK Capital, 23 years after founding the business to buy
companies ranging from auto-parts makers to casinos. Onex
Credit’s investments have grown to $900 million in bank loans,
bonds and distressed debt.  
 “Credit investing is a natural extension and complement to
the private-equity business,” said Sheiner. “From a private-
equity perspective, we get insight into the debt markets and
Onex Credit can tap into industry relationships developed
through buying more than 250 businesses.”  
 Yang left Dallas-based Highland in July 2009 after joining
in 2003. Previously he ran leveraged finance products globally
at Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York.  
 Michael Gelblat  and  Stuart Kovensky  oversee Onex Credit’s
investments based in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. The firm’s
primary strategy focuses on so-called long-short credit that
wagers on price gains and declines in company debt.  
 ‘Overhang for Credit’  
 Onex sold shares of its OCP Credit Strategy Fund in
November to the public.  
 “There is still an uncertain economic environment and
overhang for credit,” Sheiner said.  
 In addition, over the long-term, there is “a non-cyclical,
macro trend for investors to allocate to fixed-income
alternative strategies,” Yang said.  
 The firm is trying to expand its credit division as the
market for buyouts returns.  
 Onex and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board are
currently considering a 2.9 billion-pound ($4.4 billion) bid for
London-based manufacturer Tomkins Plc. Due diligence “is now at
an advanced stage,” Tomkins, which makes building products,
valves and auto parts, said July 19 in a statement.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Pierre Paulden  in New York at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net ;
 Kristen Haunss  in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        