-- Hong Kong's Inflation Quickens to Fastest Pace in 19 Months on Rents, Food
-- Sophie Leung
-- 2010-07-22T09:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/hong-kong-s-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-pace-in-19-months-on-rents-food.html

          
          
             Hong Kong’s inflation accelerated to
the fastest pace in 19 months in June as the costs of rents and
meals climbed.  
 Consumer prices  rose 2.8 percent from a year earlier after
gaining 2.5 percent in May, the government said today on its
website. That was higher than the median 2.7 percent estimate of
10 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey .  
 The combination of a base interest rate at a record low and
an expanding economy add to the risk that inflation could spiral
up. Slowing growth in China and weakness in the global recovery
may help to contain price increases by capping import costs.  
 The “very low interest rate environment will reignite
property prices and lead to accelerating inflation,”  Liu Li- Gang , a Hong Kong-based economist at the ANZ, said before
today’s report. At the same time, gains won’t be excessive
“because of uncertainties in the external environment and the
expected economic moderation in mainland China,” Liu said. He
forecasts full-year inflation of 2.6 percent.  
 June inflation was the fastest since November 2008,
excluding distortions in January and February each year caused
by a Lunar New Year holiday. Hong Kong’s economy grew at the
fastest pace in four years in the first quarter of 2010,
expanding 8.2 percent from a year earlier, when the city’s
recession was at its deepest.  
 One-off government measures such as electricity subsidies
and waivers of property rates and public housing rentals can
distort Hong Kong’s inflation numbers. Excluding such effects,
inflation was mainly driven last month by private housing
rentals, the costs of meals bought away from home and charges
for package tours, the government said in a statement.  
 The Hong Kong Monetary Authority has kept the base interest
rate at record low of 0.5 percent since December 2008. Monetary
policy decisions track those of the U.S. Federal Reserve because
the city’s currency is pegged to the dollar.  
 The underlying consumer price index, which excludes the
effects of government subsidies, rose 1.7 percent last month,
compared with 1.4 percent in May, the government’s report showed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        