-- Mosaic Considers Special Dividend, May Acquire Phosphate Assets, CEO Says
-- Simon Casey
-- 2010-07-22T22:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/mosaic-considers-special-dividend-may-acquire-phosphate-assets-ceo-says.html

          
          
             Mosaic Co. , North America’s second-
largest fertilizer producer, said it’s considering payment of a
special dividend this year and acquiring makers of phosphate
crop nutrients.  
 “We do have a strong balance sheet, we do have a lot of
cash on the balance sheet,” Chief Executive Officer  James Prokopanko  said today in a telephone interview.  
 Mosaic, which had cash and cash equivalents of $2.52
billion as of May 31, said shipments of phosphate and potash
fertilizers will rise this year because farmers need to improve
yields to meet demand. The Plymouth, Minnesota-based company
reported  profit  of 89 cents a share, beating the 88-cent average
estimate of 18 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 The company is a “willing buyer” of “regional”
producers of phosphate fertilizers and is considering acquiring
phosphate-rock reserves, Prokopanko said.  
 “There’s a limited number of integrated phosphate
producers in the world,” he said. “There may be a time in the
not-so-distant future when some of these regional, national
players may come for sale.”  
 The company paid a special dividend of $1.30 a share in
December.  
 Mosaic  rose  60 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $45.55 at 6:14
p.m. after the close of regular New York Stock Exchange trading.
 The shares  dropped 25 percent this year as of today’s close.  
 The Sierra Club and other groups are contesting a federal
permit that would allow an expansion of the company’s South Fort
Meade phosphate-rock mine in Florida. Mosaic said in today’s
earnings statement that the granting of a preliminary injunction
may impact operations there. Prokopanko declined to comment in
the interview.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Donville  in Vancouver 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        