-- Most Asian Stocks Decline After Bernanke's Testimony Fuels Growth Concerns
-- Norie Kuboyama
-- 2010-07-22T09:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/most-asian-stocks-drop-as-bernanke-comments-fuel-economic-growth-concerns.html

          
          
             Most Asian  stocks  fell, dragging the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index lower for the first time in three days,
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S.
economic outlook remains “unusually uncertain.”  
 Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest maker of computer
chips, flat screens and mobile phones, dropped 1.1 percent in
Seoul.  Canon Inc. , a camera maker that gets about 27 percent of
its revenue in the Americas, decreased 0.8 percent in Tokyo.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia led declines among finance
companies on concern results from European banks’ stress tests
will reveal loan losses.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. , Hong
Kong’s biggest developer, climbed 1.1 percent on speculation
that prices of luxury homes will gain.  
 The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.1 percent to 115.55 as
of 5:34 p.m. in Tokyo, with about three stocks declining for
every two that advanced. The gauge has slumped 10 percent from
this year’s high on April 15 as Europe’s debt crisis and China’s
steps to curb property prices fueled concern that global
economic growth will slow.  
 “People in the market are anxious about the future of the
global economy, making them unwilling to take on risk,” said
 Hisakazu Amano , who helps oversee about $18 billion in Tokyo at
T&D Asset Management Co. “Liquidity is drying up, making prices
more volatile and adding to investors’ sense of insecurity.”  
 Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  lost 0.6 percent, while
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.9 percent. New Zealand’s
NZX 50 Index sank 0.7 percent. South Korea’s Kospi declined 0.8
percent. The  Shanghai Composite Index  advanced 1.1 percent as
brokerage upgrades boosted property companies and steelmakers.  
 Further Action  
 Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.5 percent.
The index dropped 1.3 percent yesterday after Bernanke told the
Senate Banking Committee that Fed officials “recognize that the
economic outlook remains unusually uncertain.”  
 “We will continue to carefully assess ongoing financial
and economic developments, and we remain prepared to take
further policy actions as needed,” Bernanke said in his
testimony.  
 Samsung Electronics retreated 1.1 percent to 808,000 won in
Seoul and Canon declined 0.8 percent to 3,330 yen.  Sharp Corp. ,
Japan’s largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, sank 2.1
percent to 937 yen. Honda Motor Co., which generates 42 percent
of its sales in North America, slid 0.5 percent to 2,586 yen.  
 “Bernanke’s comments reinforced concerns the U.S. economy
is slowing,” said  Yoshinori Nagano , a senior strategist in
Tokyo at Daiwa Asset Management Co., which oversees about $104
billion. “Today’s trading reflects investors’ disappointment.”  
 U.S. Economy  
 Economic data from the U.S. this month have fueled concerns
the world’s biggest economy is stalling. Sales at  U.S. retailers 
declined in June for a second month, the Commerce Department
reported on July 14. Home-builder confidence dropped this month
to the lowest level since April 2009, National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo data on July 19 showed.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has declined about 4 percent
this year, cutting the average price of stocks in the gauge to
14 times  estimated earnings , near the lowest level since
December 2008. That compares with 13 times for the  S&P 500 Index 
and 11.5 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  
 Financial companies were the second-biggest drag on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index before the release of European bank
stress-test results tomorrow. European Union regulators are
examining the strength of 91 banks to determine if they can
survive potential losses from both a recession and a decline in
the value of government debt.  
 Stress Tests  
 Commonwealth Bank, Australia’s largest lender, sank 2.4
percent to A$49.92, while Westpac Banking Corp. fell 1.6 percent
to A$22.15 in Sydney.  
 European lenders must disclose their gross and net exposure
to central and local governments in 30 countries in the region,
including Greece, Spain, Ireland, Italy and Portugal, according
to a confidential draft template obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 “Given the uncertainty surrounding the release of the
European bank stress tests, it’s reasonable to suggest we’re
seeing some risk mitigation ahead of the release,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1.1 billion at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Melbourne.  
 A measure of utilities in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index 
advanced 0.7 percent, the most of the broader gauge’s 10
industry groups. Some investors sought haven in companies whose
earnings are perceived to be sheltered from the economic cycle,
said Daiwa Asset’s Nagano.  
 Utilities Advance  
 Korea Electric Power Corp. , South Korea’s largest utility,
rose 0.6 percent to 32,100 won. The National Pension Service won
approval to increase its stake in the company to as much as 5
percent, the nation’s Financial Services Commission said. The
stock pared an earlier gain of 2.2 percent after Korea Electric
posted a quarterly loss that exceeded analyst estimates.  
 Tokyo Electric Power Co., Asia’s largest utility, gained 1
percent to 2,431 yen. Tokyo Gas Co., Japan’s largest natural-gas
distributor, increased 0.3 percent to 397 yen.  
 In Hong Kong, the city’s developers gained on speculation
that prices of luxury homes may gain, overshadowing concerns
about China’s moves to cool its real-estate market.  
 Sun Hung Kai Properties  climbed 1.1 percent to HK$112.80.
Henderson Land Development Co., a developer controlled by Hong
Kong’s second-richest man, rose 1.3 percent to HK$47.10.  
 The value of Hong Kong luxury homes may gain 10 percent in
the second half as the outcome of next week’s auction of a
building site in the Peak area could bolster investor sentiment,
Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. said yesterday.  
 SK Energy, Shionogi  
 In Shenzhen, China Vanke Co. rose 2.6 percent to 7.95 yuan
after the country’s biggest listed property developer was rated
“buy” in new coverage by Citigroup Inc. The brokerage said the
“restructured, refocused” company is already delivering
“notably improved” growth momentum.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. 
rose 4.5 percent to 12.35 yuan.  
 SK Energy Co.  soared 7.2 percent to 126,500 won in Seoul
after announcing that it will supply electric-car batteries to
Hyundai Motor Co. and Kia Motors Corp.  
 In Tokyo, drugmaker  Shionogi & Co.  jumped 3.8 percent to
1,790 yen after venture Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare LLCS said it
will move an experimental HIV drug into the last stage of
clinical testing following promising results.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Monami Yui  in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
 Norie Kuboyama  in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Aaron Fischer, an analyst at CLSA Ltd., talks with Bloomberg's Linzie Janis about the outlook for Hong Kong's casino stocks.
     Macau casino gambling revenue may rise 72 percent this month from a year earlier as gamblers who wagered on the World Cup soccer tournament return to betting on card games in the Chinese city, according to CLSA. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
