-- Tour de France Family Owners Top Alberto Contador in Money Race
-- Alex Duff
-- 2010-07-23T13:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/tour-de-france-family-owners-top-favorite-alberto-contador-in-money-race.html

          
          
             The Tour de France’s biggest prize
isn’t heading to the likely race-winner,  Alberto Contador . It
will go to the Amaury family.  
 Contador, who is leading at the end of yesterday’s 108-mile
mountain stage, would earn 50,000 euros ($64,600) after sharing
the winner’s 450,000-euro paycheck with his eight teammates, a
tradition in cycling, his Astana team general manager Yvon
Sanquer said.  
 That compares with the 136.6 million euros of dividends
paid between 2004 and 2008 by the family’s  Amaury Sport
Organisation , which runs cycling’s biggest event, to its
shareholders, the Paris-based company’s latest published
accounts show. The payout to riders hasn’t changed since the
first of Contador’s three victories in 2007. The ASO blames the
stagnant funds on doping in the sport cutting into sponsorship
income.  
 “When you compare it to other sports the prize money is
not high,” Sanquer said in an interview. “It should be
increased if possible. The riders deserve it.”  
 This year’s Tour ends in Paris in two days. Even after
scandals involving blood doping in recent years, the event
remains the biggest asset of the Amaury family, according to
 Conor O’Shea , a media analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
Paris. The family and  Lagardere SCA  get dividends from ASO.  
 Family  
 Jean-Etienne Amaury is president, and his mother, Marie-
Odile, is on the board of the company, which also manages
smaller races such as the Dakar rally and the Paris half-
marathon.  Lagardere , which owns Elle and Paris Match magazines,
holds a 25 percent stake in the family’s group of companies.  
 The family has controlled the race since the 1940s, and it
is more profitable than their publishing interests, including Le
Parisien newspaper.  
 “The value of sports rights is strong and the Tour de
France is a huge global brand,” O’Shea said. It could be worth
1 billion euros, five times more than Le Parisien, in which the
Amaurys may sell a stake, O’Shea said.  
 The Tour, first run in 1903, attracts millions of
spectators and is broadcast in 186 countries. It gets as much as
60 percent of sales from television rights, with about 30
percent coming from sponsorship and much of the rest coming from
fees from the towns that host stages of the race, according to
ASO marketing director Laurent Lachaux. ASO had sales of 158.6
million euros in 2008. Lachaux declined to say how much came
from the Tour. Members of the family weren’t made available for
interview.  
 Prize Money  
 Overall, the Tour hands out about 3.3 million euros in
prize money. Even if 27-year-old Contador was to bank the whole
first prize, he would be pulling in less than half the 1 million
pounds ($1.5 million) that compatriot Rafael Nadal got from
winning the Wimbledon tennis championship earlier this month.  
 “They could double the prizes without any problem,” said
Daniel Malbranque, general secretary of the international union
of riders for a decade until March.  
 To be sure, Contador earns “millions” of euros a year
from Kazakhstan-backed Astana, Sanquer said, without being more
specific. He gets a salary of 5 million euros, L’Equipe
newspaper reported on July 20.  
 Race organizers froze prize money the last few years after
doping by riders threatened sponsorship contracts, ASO director
Lachaux said. Floyd Landis was stripped of his 2006 title for
doping and one of the 2007 race favorites,  Alexandre Vinokourov ,
was thrown out when tests showed he had two different groups of
red blood cells, indicating he’d injected someone else’s blood
to boost his stamina.  
 ‘Absurd’ Request  
 “There wouldn’t have been any basis for them to ask for a
10 percent rise,” Lachaux said of Tour riders. “It would have
been absurd.”  
 No positive doping tests have yet emerged from this year’s
three-week race, which covers 2,264 miles. Contador leads Team
Saxo Bank’s  Andy Schleck  by 8 seconds with the most difficult
mountain stages finished.  
 Contador gets almost all his earnings from the team,
although he has minor deals with fashion brand Hugo Boss AG and
Specialized Bicycle Components Inc., his spokesman Jacinto
Vidarte said. He said Contador was satisfied with the amount of
Tour prize money.  
 “It’s just a bit of extra money,” Vidarte said.  
 Pedro Horrillo, a former rider who retired after a crash
that left him hospitalized last year, said in an interview that
cyclists regard race prize money as a perk and not part of their
regular income.  
 Rewards  
 “The mentality of the rider is to negotiate with the
team” not race organizers, Horrillo said. “You get your reward
with extra salary or bonuses.”  
 The Amaurys have controlled the Tour de France since buying
L’Auto magazine, which had set up the race as a promotional
stunt. The title became known as L’Equipe, which the family
still owns, Lachaux said.  
 While it plans to keep L’Equipe, an Amaury group executive
who declined to be identified confirmed reports last month that
it is considering selling a stake in Le Parisien, which it also
owned since the 1940s.  
 “Newspapers are trophy buys that don’t make any money,”
O’Shea said. “The value of sports rights is much higher.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Pau at the Tour de France, via the London sports
desk   aduff4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Luxembourg's Andy Schleck, right, climbs in the fog ahead of Yellow jersey of Overall leader, Spain's Alberto Contador, between Pau and the famous Col du Tourmalet pass in French Pyrenees on July 22, 2010. Photographer: Lionel Bonaventure/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
