-- Howard Hughes Heirs Battle Mall Owner for Payments
-- David McLaughlin
-- 2010-07-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/howard-hughes-estate-dispute-pits-heirs-against-mall-owner-general-growth.html

          
          
             Howard Hughes ’s heirs are seeking
the last payout from his estate, 34 years after the reclusive
mogul’s death, in a conflict between a loose federation of
relatives and bankrupt mall owner General Growth Properties Inc.  
 The two sides are set to square off in a courtroom in lower
Manhattan today over what steps to take to pay the heirs. The
outcome will help determine how much the heirs receive and how
quickly Chicago-based  General Growth  can complete its 15-month-
old restructuring. With the resolution, the last vestiges of the
Hughes organization will finally dissolve.  
 “My guess is there will be some last-minute clean-up that
will keep us in place for months -- some tax reporting -- then
it will all be over,” said  David Elkins , who, along with two
relatives, represents a group that now numbers about 475,
including hundreds of people unrelated to Hughes as well as
trusts, partnerships and charities. “It’s none too soon.”  
 The roots of the Hughes battle date back to 1976, when the
billionaire aviator, industrialist and filmmaker died at the age
of 70, childless and without a will. Following a dispute over
his fortune -- a handwritten will Hughes supposedly gave to a
gas-station owner was rejected as a forgery by a Nevada court --
the holdings were distributed among cousins and other relatives,
as well as attorneys who had been hired by family members on a
contingent basis.  
 $520 Million Sale  
 Rouse Co., a mall owner based in Columbia, Maryland, bought
the remaining Hughes assets, including about 22,500 acres of
Nevada land, in 1996 for $520 million in cash, stock and debt.
The heirs were to receive a portion of profits from future land
sales under the agreement.  
 General Growth  bought  Rouse in 2004 for $11.3 billion,
assuming the obligation to the Hughes heirs. Debt from the
acquisition helped push General Growth into bankruptcy
protection in April 2009.  
 The Hughes heirs have received semiannual payments from the
sale of land near Las Vegas, which has been developed as the
 Summerlin  master-planned community, under a contingent stock
agreement that was part of the Rouse purchase. That deal called
for any land remaining by the end of 2009 to be appraised and
the Hughes heirs paid. The dispute with General Growth involves
how that payment should be resolved.  
 General Growth is pushing for U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Allan Gropper  in New York to determine what the land is worth and how
much the Hughes group will recover. The heirs want an appraisal
panel to decide the value of the land and say any disputes
should go to arbitration, as mandated when Rouse bought Hughes
Corp.  
 Having a Say  
 “From the heirs’ standpoint they’re going to want to have
as much say in who’s making these determinations as possible and
the arbitration clause gives them the opportunity to do that,”
said  Victor Milione , a bankruptcy lawyer at Nixon Peabody LLP in
Boston who isn’t involved in the General Growth case.  
 The largest amount due to the Hughes group is about one
half of the value of the unsold land in the Summerlin
development as of Dec. 31, 2009, the heirs said in court papers.  
 The heirs have hired an appraiser to determine the value of
the land, which totals about 9,000 acres. For tax purposes, the
land has been valued at $430 million by General Growth and its
appraisers, according to an evaluation of Clark County, Nevada,
records by  Ropes & Gray LLP , the heirs’ law firm.  
 That would be an “absolutely bottom floor,” said Elkins,
who gained his interest in the Hughes inheritance in the 1990s,
when he was an attorney at Andrews Kurth LLP in Houston and was
the lead partner in negotiating the Rouse transaction. He left
the firm in 1997.  
 Las Vegas Prices  
 The land had a book value of more than $1.1 billion at the
end of last year, according to General Growth consolidated
financial statements. That value may not reflect a drop in Las
Vegas-area real estate prices, Elkins said.  
 A valuation of "$1.1 billion, if we were to get that, would
be an extremely good outcome from our perspective, given market
conditions,” he said.  
 An appraisal and arbitration process could delay General
Growth’s bankruptcy completion, the company said in court papers
filed last month. Its current plan calls for an exit in October.  
 The financing General Growth needs to come out of
bankruptcy -- investment commitments from  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc. , Fairholme Capital Management Inc. and Pershing
Square Capital Management LP -- “requires a resolution” of the
Hughes claims, the company said in court papers.  
 Faster Resolution  
 General Growth wants to keep the issue in front of Gropper
because it will be resolved faster, and the judge will weigh
what’s in the best interest of the company and its creditors,
Milione said. That’s not the role of arbitration.  
 “You’ve got a panel looking at the contract and not too
concerned with all the other things going on in the bankruptcy
case,” Milione said.  
 The heirs said in court filings that the appraisal process
won’t slow down the bankruptcy process.  
 The Hughes group received $540.2 million between 1996 and
General Growth’s bankruptcy filing in April 2009, in addition to
the $520 million purchase of the Hughes Corp., General Growth
said in court papers.  
 “As a result of the successful planning and execution of
the community and rapidly escalating land values in what is now
recognized as a huge ‘bubble’ in an overheated housing market,
the Hughes heirs have received far more in earn-out payments
than anyone ever contemplated,” General Growth said in court
papers.  
 Given that General Growth is solvent, even though it’s in
bankruptcy, there’s little reason to discard the arbitration
clause that was part of the Rouse deal, said  Steven T. Hoort , a
lawyer for the heirs with Ropes & Gray in Boston.  
 “The right of arbitration has the normal force that it has
outside bankruptcy,” Hoort said.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Daniel Taub  in Los Angeles at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The late American industrialist, aviator, and film producer Howard Hughes. Source: Hulton Archive/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
