-- Pakistan Extends Army Chief Kayani's Term Amid Border Fight With Taliban
-- James Rupert
-- 2010-07-23T07:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/pakistan-extends-army-chief-kayani-s-term-for-three-year-amid-taliban-war.html

          
          
             Pakistan re-appointed its military
chief, General  Ashfaq Parvez Kayani , for three years as it
fights a growing war against Taliban factions near its border
with Afghanistan.  
 The decision, announced by Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani , keeps in place the country’s real policy maker on
security issues, said independent political analysts such as
 Talat Masood , a retired army lieutenant general. “That
stability is probably essential” as Pakistan confronts U.S.
pressure to expand the offensive to other Taliban groups that
have long been its allies, Masood said in a phone interview in
the capital, Islamabad.  
 “The nation is going through difficult times in this war
against terrorists,” Gilani said in announcing the decision
last night. Kayani “has successfully led us in this war and his
staying on is in our best interests.”  
 Kayani, 57, was due to retire in November after a three-
year term. Since last year, he has led the army into a string of
offensives to recapture areas taken over by Taliban militants.  
 U.S. officials have pressed Pakistan to send its army into
North Waziristan, a district on the Afghan border where the
Taliban faction led by Jalaluddin and Sirajuddin Haqqani bases
its fight against U.S. troops in eastern Afghanistan. The army
is reluctant to attack the Haqqanis, who for decades have been
its allies in Afghanistan’s conflicts.  
 U.S. Praise  
 Still, U.S. officials have praised Kayani for his
cooperation, notably in March, when he accompanied Foreign
Minister  Shah Mahmood Qureshi  on a visit to Washington for
bilateral talks.  
 Kayani has provided critical help to the U.S. military in
Afghanistan by helping to secure Pakistani highways as a supply
line that carries half of U.S. war materiel for the Afghan war.
And he has allowed the  missile strikes  by remotely piloted drone
aircraft with which the U.S. has targeted Taliban and al-Qaeda
leaders in Pakistan’s semi-autonomous tribal zone along the
Afghan border.  
 While Gilani holds the formal authority to name military
commanders, the army chief wields more power on policy, Masood
said. The military has ruled Pakistan for nearly 33 of the 63
years since the country was carved out of British-ruled India
and during periods of civilian rule has kept the leading role in
developing national security policy.  
 While Kayani has kept a low public profile and accepts
civilian input in policy making, scholars say, he demonstrated
his power in 2008 by forcing Gilani and President  Asif Ali Zardari  to retract an order shifting supervision of the
country’s main intelligence agency, the Directorate for Inter-
Services Intelligence, from Kayani to the civilian leadership.  
 Kayani is a native of Jhelum, a part of the Punjab province
known for producing soldiers. He joined the  army  in 1971 and
served in that year’s war against India.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;  James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
   jrupert3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Pakistani Prime Minister Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani  
                       
                         
                           Paul J. Richards/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Pakistani Prime Minister Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani looks on as he meets with US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on July 18, 2010 in Islamabad. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Pakistani Prime Minister Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani looks on as he meets with US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on July 18, 2010 in Islamabad. Photographer: Paul J. Richards/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
