-- Pearson Buys Sistema Educacional Brasileiro Learning Unit for $499 Million
-- Jonathan Browning
-- 2010-07-22T07:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/pearson-buys-sistema-educacional-brasileiro-learning-unit-for-499-million.html

          
          
             Pearson Plc,  the U.K.-based
education and publishing company, agreed to buy a unit of
 Sistema Educacional Brasileiro SA  for 888 million reais ($499
million) in cash to tap growth in Brazil.  
 Pearson will acquire SEB’s learning systems division, which
provides teaching methods, training and materials, the U.K.
publisher said in a statement today. The Zaher family, which
owns 70 percent of SEB, will retain the school and higher
education institutions of the business and become a “major
customer” of Pearson, the company said.  
 The acquisition expands Pearson’s education presence in
Latin America’s largest economy, which is growing at the  fastest
rate  in 15 years. Pearson gets about 65 percent of its revenue
from education and said today that Brazil is one of the world’s
largest education markets with 56 million students and an
educational materials market valued at about $2 billion.  
 “Given the size and growth prospects of its education
sector, Brazil has been a focus for Pearson for some time,”
 John Fallon , chief executive of Pearson’s international
education business, said in the statement. SEB will “provide a
platform to build a more significant Latin American business,”
he said.  
 SEB was founded in 1963, offering college-admission test
preparation. It expanded into secondary education in 1973 and
into the post-secondary market in 1999. It first offered shares
to the public in October 2007, and has since made several
acquisitions.  
 School Operator  
 The learning systems unit contributed 42 percent of SEB’s
first-quarter  revenue . The business operates 31 schools
providing full-time pre-school, primary, secondary and test
preparation courses.  
 Pearson predicts SEB’s learning systems unit to have sales
of about 160 million reais in 2010 and “to continue to grow
rapidly.” The U.K. company said the integration of SEB’s
infrastructure with Pearson’s existing business in Brazil will
help to cut costs.  
 Pearson said the acquisition will bolster adjusted earnings
per share from 2011 and generate a return on invested capital
above Pearson’s weighted average cost of capital from 2012.  
 Pearson publishes trade books, textbooks and electronic
education programs, in addition to the Financial Times
newspaper. About 62 percent of the London-based company’s
revenue was derived from North America last year, and the U.K.
accounted for 13 percent.  
 The Pearson-Sistema deal follows Abril Educacao’s purchase
last week of Anglo, a Brazilian provider of teaching systems and
educational courses, for an undisclosed amount.  Grupo Multi ,
owner of the Wizard and Skill language schools in Brazil,
acquired  SOS Computadores  in January.  
          
          


  


        