-- Pernod Raises Full-Year Forecast for Second Time on Higher Liquor Demand
-- Clementine Fletcher
-- 2010-07-22T16:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/pernod-raises-full-year-forecast-for-second-time-on-higher-liquor-demand.html

          
          
             Pernod-Ricard SA , the maker of
Absolut vodka and Chivas Regal whiskey, raised its full-year
profit forecast for the second time this year as demand for
premium spirits improved.  
 Profit from recurring operations will rise 3 percent to
4 percent this year, Pernod said today in a statement. Sales
excluding revenue from acquisitions advanced “close to 3
percent” in the fiscal fourth quarter, the Paris-based company
said. That missed the average prediction of a 4.2 percent gain
in a Bloomberg survey of four analysts.  
 “Asia and Latin America remained very buoyant,” Pernod
said in the statement. “The improved trend was confirmed in
Eastern Europe, the U.S. and duty-free markets.” Sales
continued to decline in western Europe, the company said.  
 Pernod raised its forecast in April for full-year profit
from recurring operations to “around 3 percent” after demand
in Asia boosted earnings, and U.S. alcohol sales increased for
the first time in six months.  
 Western  European sales  in the three months ended June 30
were hurt by the U.K., Spain and Greece, Pernod said, as
declining consumer confidence deterred shoppers. European
countries other than France contributed 33 percent of Pernod’s
sales in the first half.  
 “Economic conditions have remained weaker in certain parts
of Europe,”  Gerard Rijk , an Amsterdam-based  analyst  at ING
Groep NV, wrote in a note. “In southern Europe, we expect some
major destocking.” The U.S. is “stabilizing but there is no
clear trend yet,” Rijk said.  
 Pernod said that like-for-like sales in the second half of
the year rose 9 percent, “aided by a gradual recovery in
consumer spending in mature markets, higher growth momentum in
emerging markets and favorable comparatives.” Revenue growth
was boosted by Pernod’s “Top 14” brands, which include Mumm
Champagne and Glenlivet whiskey.  
 The company increased spending on advertising and promotion
“as planned,” it said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Clementine Fletcher  in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        