-- Peru to Make Record Dollar Purchases to Stem Cash `Avalanche,' Segura Says
-- John Quigley
-- 2010-07-22T22:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/peru-to-make-record-dollar-purchases-to-stem-cash-avalanche-segura-says.html

          
          
             Peru’s central bank may buy a record
amount of dollars in the foreign-exchange market this year in a
bid to prevent an “avalanche” of investment from spurring
gains in the sol, according to Banco de Credito, the country’s
biggest bank.  
 Purchases  may surpass the $10.3 billion the central bank
bought in 2007, after a surge in short-term investment drove the
sol to a 23-month high this month, said  Alonso Segura , head of
research at Banco de Credito, in an interview in Lima yesterday.
The bank has bought $4.8 billion this year, including $1.6
billion this month.  
 Foreign investors are moving capital into the country as
policy makers lift  borrowing costs  to prevent the $129 billion
economy from overheating. The central bank will probably raise
reserve requirements again, following an increase on July 18,
Segura said. The Finance Ministry said this week it will
coordinate dollar purchases with the central bank to slow gains
in the currency.  
 “They’re throwing everything they’ve got to discourage
investors before it becomes an avalanche,” Segura said. “The
bank is constantly inventing new ways of controlling the
exchange rate while keeping inflation where they want it,” said
Segura.  
 The sol rose 0.1 percent to 2.8235 per U.S. dollar at 3:47
p.m. New York time, from 2.8250 yesterday. The central bank
purchased $240 million today, it said on its website.  
 Raise the Limit  
 The yield country’s benchmark 8.6 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2017 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 5.51 percent, the lowest since July 14, according to
Citigroup Inc.’s local unit.  
 The bank may also raise the limit on how much Peru’s
private pension funds can invest overseas to 30 percent of their
assets, from 28 percent now, to relieve pressure on the
currency, Segura said.  
 Central bank spokesman  Vidal Silva  said it’s “impossible
to say” how much the bank may buy this year as it depends on
future movements in the currency.  
 The central bank has raised its reference rate by a
quarter-point at each of its last three meetings as economic
growth exceeded expectations.  
 Rising demand for the local currency led the bank to
increase the reserve mandate for foreign currency to 50 percent
of borrowings abroad maturing in less than two years. The
requirement was 35 percent in June.  
 Less Profitable  
 The increase has made dollar forwards less profitable for
investors, central bank President  Julio Velarde  told reporters
today in Lima. “Bets that the currency will gain have
stopped,” he said.  
 Gross domestic product  may have expanded by almost “two
digits” last month, following 9.2 percent growth in May, and
inflation remains under control, Velarde said.  
 The central bank increased its GDP forecast for this year
to 6.6 percent last month, from 5.5 percent previously.  
 Banco de Credito anticipates 7 percent growth this year and
the benchmark lending rate to reach 3.25 percent, from 2 percent
now. The bank projects the exchange rate will strengthen to 2.8
soles per dollar, with a downward bias, Segura said.  
 The central bank’s measures may deter speculators “for a
few days,” but they will return, albeit more cautiously than
before, Segura said.  
 “Peru’s fundamentals support inflows coming in, with the
central bank defending the exchange rate so it will be a slow
appreciation,” Segura said. “If you get a better return here,
and expect the currency and reference rate to keep going up, why
wouldn’t you come?”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Quigley  in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        