-- Pimco Hires Goldman Sachs's Maria Gordon to Start Emerging-Stocks Group
-- Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam
-- 2010-07-22T16:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/pimco-said-to-hire-goldman-sachs-s-maria-gordon-for-emerging-markets-group.html

          
          
             Pacific Investment Management Co.,
the bond-fund firm that last year began a push into equities,
hired  Maria Gordon  from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s asset-
management unit to start an emerging-market stocks group.  
 Gordon was head of the emerging-markets equity team at
Goldman Sachs Asset Management in London, where she oversaw
about $8 billion in assets, the Newport Beach, California-based
firm said in a statement. Gordon, who plans to join in October,
will eventually run a group of four to six people and will be
based in London.  
 Pimco, whose name has been synonymous with bonds since it
was co-founded by  Bill Gross  in 1971, is venturing into other
asset classes under Chief Executive Officer  Mohamed El-Erian . In
December, the firm hired former U.S. Treasury official  Neel Kashkari  as head of new investment initiatives to help direct
the expansion. Pimco also hired portfolio managers  Anne Gudefin 
and  Charles Lahr  from Franklin Resources Inc. to run its first
actively managed stock mutual fund.  
 Gudefin and Lahr, who are known for picking stocks they
deem cheap based on yardsticks such as per-share earnings,
started  Pimco EqS Pathfinder  in April. The fund has grown to
about $571 million, data from Morningstar Inc. in Chicago show.
The firm’s equity unit will offer fewer than 10 global
strategies and be guided by Pimco’s research on macroeconomic
issues, the company said at the time.  
 Pimco also hired five executives in its equity group,
including three who will support Gudefin and Lahr on the
Pathfinder funds, according to the statement. In all, Pimco now
has about 15 professionals in its equity team.  
 Goldman Sachs Fund  
 Nik Ekholm, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs in London, said
Gordon left earlier this month and that  Richard Flax , a
portfolio manager based in London, took over for her.  
 Gordon managed the Goldman Sachs Emerging Markets Equity
Fund from 2003 until this year. The fund  rose  at an average
annual pace of 8.9 percent in the five years through yesterday,
compared with 13 percent for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index ,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  
 Equity fund assets overseen by Goldman Sachs’ investment-
management unit fell to $125 billion as of June 30 from $150
billion at the end of March, the New York-based firm said on
July 20 when releasing results for the second quarter. Goldman
Sachs has $802 billion in its money-management unit.  
 Pimco’s global focus stems in part from its “new normal”
philosophy, adopted in May 2009 to describe an era of lower
returns, higher unemployment, heightened government regulation
and a diminishing role for the U.S. in the world economy.  
 Measured Growth  
 Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , manages
about $1.1 trillion in assets, with more than 90 percent in
bonds. Unlike rivals such as  BlackRock Inc. , which added
products through a series of acquisitions, Pimco is expanding by
hiring executives and broadening teams. In an April interview
with Bloomberg Markets magazine, El-Erian said that approach
will ensure that the firm doesn’t “dilute what has served
clients well.”  
 In March, Pimco hired two senior executives at a new unit
that will allocate clients’ money to outside funds, as well as
its own, and try to protect investors from market jolts. The
firm last year opened its first exchange-traded funds and an
advisory unit to help institutions and governments value their
holdings. ETFs hold baskets of securities, as mutual funds do,
while trading continually like stocks.  
 El-Erian shares the title of chief investment officer with
Gross, who runs the world’s biggest mutual fund. The $234
billion Pimco Total Return Bond Fund advanced at a 7.7 percent
annual average over the past five years to beat 99 percent of
its peers, Bloomberg data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        