-- Presidential Life Sued by Ex-Chairman Herbert Kurz Over Director Elections
-- Phil Milford
-- 2010-07-22T20:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/presidential-life-sued-by-ex-chairman-herbert-kurz-over-director-elections.html

          
          
             Presidential Life Corp. , the insurer
that reported $242.2 million in revenue last year, was sued by
former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Kurz , who
wants to replace the board and consider selling the company.  
 Presidential Life officials are trying to block his
nomination of directors by citing an unfair “advance notice
bylaw provision,” Kurz said in a Delaware Chancery Court
complaint made public today in Wilmington.  
 If elected at the Aug. 18 stockholder meeting, Kurz’s slate
of eight directors would be “committed to enhancing stockholder
value by restoring the company’s culture of stringent cost
controls, while also exploring the sale of the company or other
alternative strategies,” Kurz said in a statement yesterday.  
 Kurz founded Nyack, New York-based Presidential Life and
with the Kurz Family Foundation controls more than 26 percent of
the stock, according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg. He resigned
from the board after the New York Insurance Department in a June
3  letter  “concluded that both the Foundation and Mr. Kurz have
engaged in untrustworthy conduct,” the company said in a July
19 statement.  
 Kurz’s suit asks the court to discount the company’s bylaw
interpretation in favor of his board nominees or to block the
annual meeting.  
 ‘Did Not Comply’  
 “Clearly, Mr. Kurz did not comply with the company’s
advance notice bylaw provision and is attempting to turn back
the clock and return the company to his control,” Presidential
spokesman  Greg Faje  said in an e-mailed statement.  
 “Furthermore, his actions follow a recent insurance
department ruling that barred Mr. Kurz from serving as an
officer, director or controlling person of Presidential Life,”
Faje said.  
 Presidential rose 86 cents, or 10 percent, to $9.42 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The shares
have gained 3 percent this year.  
 The case is Kurz v. Presidential Life, CA5659, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Phil Milford  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        