-- Purchases of U.S. Existing Homes Fell in June
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-07-22T14:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/purchases-of-u-s-existing-homes-fall-a-second-month-as-tax-credit-fades.html

          
          
             Sales of U.S. previously owned homes
fell in June for a second month, adding to evidence the market
will slump as the effects of a federal tax credit fade.  
 Purchases of  existing houses  dropped a less-than-forecast
5.1 percent to a 5.37 million annual rate, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed today in Washington. The
number of transactions will be “very low” in coming months,
reflecting the end of the government incentive, the group’s
chief economist said in a news conference.  
 The tax credit of up to $8,000 boosted sales earlier in the
year, releasing pent-up demand and indicating the market will be
slow to recover. Increasing foreclosures are swelling the number
of unsold homes, putting pressure on prices and keeping buyers
out of the market as unemployment hovers near 10 percent and the
economy cools.  
 “We’re seeing the first stage of the cooling as the tax-
incentive purchases fall off,” said Avery Shenfeld, chief
economist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto, who projected sales
would drop to a 5.38 million pace. “We will see prices retreat
as the demand falls off without the tax incentive.  
 Stocks held earlier gains after the report on improving
earnings forecasts at companies from United Parcel
Service Inc. to AT&T Inc. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
2.1 percent to 1,092.23 at 10:25 a.m. in New York.  
 Other reports today showed the economic outlook dimmed and
more Americans than projected filed applications for
unemployment benefits.  
 Leading Index  
 The Conference Board’s index of leading indicators fell 0.2
percent in June, according to figures from the New York-based
research group.  
 Initial jobless  claims  jumped by 37,000 to 464,000 in the
week ended July 17, exceeding the highest estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed. The
survey median projected claims would climb to 445,000.  
 Existing home sales were forecast to decline to a 5.1
million pace, according to the  median  forecast of 74 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from 4.25 million
to 6.2 million. May’s sales rate was 5.66 million, unrevised
from the previous estimate.  
 Purchases of existing homes increased 7.2 percent compared
with a year earlier prior to adjusting for seasonal patterns.  
 The  median price  increased 1 percent to $183,700 from
$181,800 in June 2009.  
 The number of previously owned homes on the market climbed
2.5 percent to 3.99 million. At the current sales pace, it would
take 8.9 months to sell those houses compared, the most since
August 2009.  
 More Supply  
 The supply is likely to jump to 10 or more in coming months
as sales slow, said Lawrence Yun, the group’s chief economist.  
 Like other housing data, sales of existing homes have been
whipsawed by the timing of the tax credit. After surging to a
two-and-a-half year high of 6.49 million in November, the month
of the credit’s initial expiration, they dropped for the next
three months. Demand then recovered in March and April, which
was the deadline for signing contracts, only to slip again the
following month.  
 The June 30 deadline to close deals, which is when existing
home sales are tabulated, was extended to the end of September
to ensure prospective buyers had enough time to complete
transactions. The majority of those closings will have already
occurred, so the extension will not markedly lift demand, said
 Zach Pandl , an economist at Nomura Securities International Inc.
in New York.  
 Economic Recovery  
 Housing’s inability to sustain a recovery is one reason the
economic expansion is not gaining speed. Reports earlier this
week showed housing starts fell in June to the lowest level
since October, and homebuilder sentiment fell this month to its
lowest level since April 2009.  
 Foreclosures and short-sales are boosting the so-called
shadow inventory, and competing with owners trying to sell
properties. Home seizures jumped 38 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, RealtyTrac Inc. said last week,
putting lenders on pace to claim more than 1 million properties
this year.  
 Sales at Miami-based Lennar, the third-biggest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, were running 20 percent to 25 percent
lower last month than a year earlier as the expiration of the
tax credit sapped demand, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller 
said June 24.  
 ‘‘The new-home market and housing in general still face
serious headwinds from current economic and legislative
conditions,” Miller said on a conference call with investors.
“The prospect of additional delinquencies ahead continues to
moderate this recovery as shadow inventory continues to be
absorbed.”  
 Cheaper borrowing costs are helping mitigate the damage.
The average rate on a  30-year fixed  mortgage fell to 4.59
percent last week, the lowest since data collection began in
1990, the Mortgage Bankers Association said yesterday.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Coldwell Banker sign stands outside an existing home for sale in Durham, North Carolina. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
