-- Purchases of U.S. Existing Homes Fell in June
-- Bob Willis
-- 2010-07-22T21:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/purchases-of-u-s-existing-homes-fell-in-june.html

          
          
             Sales of U.S. previously owned homes
in June dropped less than forecast, sustained by a backlog of
deals that will dry up when a government credit expires.  
 Purchases  slipped for a second month, falling 5.1 percent
to a 5.37 million annual rate, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in Washington. Transactions
will be “very low” in coming months as the federal incentive
ends, the group’s chief economist,  Lawrence Yun , said in a news
conference.  
 Other reports showed the economic outlook dimmed and more
Americans filed applications for unemployment benefits,
reinforcing signs of slowing growth. The data show why Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reiterated today that central
bankers stand ready to take additional action if the world’s
largest economy “doesn’t continue to improve.”  
 “The overall picture is one of a very weak recovery,”
said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini
Ramirez Inc. in New York. “Housing still has a lot of problems,
and the labor market is going to be painfully slow. The message
from Bernanke is pretty much that they’re not going to do
anything on tightening until God knows when.”  
 Stocks and commodities rallied on improving profit
forecasts at companies from United Parcel Service Inc. to AT&T
Inc. The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  climbed 2 percent to a 4:00
p.m. close of 1,093.67 in New York. Oil topped $79 a barrel and
copper rose for a fourth day.  
 Exceeds Forecast  
 Existing home sales were expected to decline to a 5.1
million pace, according to the  median  forecast of 74 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. Estimates ranged from 4.25 million
to 6.2 million. May’s sales rate was 5.66 million, unrevised
from the previous estimate.  
 The Conference Board’s index of leading indicators fell 0.2
percent in June, the second drop in the past three months,
according to figures from the New York-based research group. The
gauge points to the direction of the economy over the next three
to six months.  
 “We’re looking at a very subdued recovery,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in New York,
who forecast the 0.2 percent decline. “Companies are still very
cautious to hire.”  
 Initial jobless  claims  jumped by 37,000 to 464,000 in the
week ended July 17, exceeding the highest estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor Department figures showed.
Claims were projected to climb to 445,000, and estimates ranged
from 420,000 to 460,000.  
 Bernanke Testimony  
 Bernanke, in testimony before the House Financial Services
Committee today, said unemployment is “the most important”
problem facing the economy. “We are ready and we will act if
the economy does not continue to improve, if we don’t see the
kind of improvements in the labor market that we are hoping for
and expecting.”  
 Housing is one industry that will probably struggle. In
order to receive a tax credit of up to $8,000, homebuyers had to
sign contracts by the end of April and initially close deals by
June 30. Sales of existing houses are tracked when a deal
closes.  
 The government this month extended the closing deadline to
Sept. 30 after the jump in demand through April meant some
purchases would not have time to be processed.  
 “We’re seeing the first stage of the cooling as the tax-
incentive purchases fall off,” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief
economist at CIBC World Markets in Toronto, who projected sales
would drop to a 5.38 million pace. “We will see prices retreat
as the demand falls off without the tax incentive.”  
 Climbing Inventory  
 The number of homes on the market climbed 2.5 percent to
3.99 million. At the current sales pace, it would take 8.9
months to sell those houses, the most since August 2009.  
 The supply is likely to jump to 10 months or more in coming
months as sales slow, said  Yun  of the Realtor group. The post-
tax-credit slowdown may last as long as three or four months,
more than he previously estimated, Yun said.  
 A 10 months’ supply has historically put pressure on home
prices, he said. The  median price  of a previously owned house
increased 1 percent to $183,700 from $181,800 in June 2009, the
real-estate agents’ group said.  
 “It’s still a fragile situation in the housing market,”
Yun said. “I hope it’s only two months but it could be three to
four months with contracts remaining very weak.”  
 Foreclosures, Short-Sales  
 Foreclosures and short sales, usually not reflected in the
NAR’s data, are boosting the so-called shadow inventory and
competing with owners trying to sell properties. Home seizures
jumped 38 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier,
RealtyTrac Inc. said last week, putting lenders on pace to claim
more than 1 million properties this year.  
 Sales at Miami-based Lennar, the third-biggest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, were running 20 percent to 25 percent
lower last month than a year earlier as the expiration of the
tax credit sapped demand, Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Miller 
said June 24.  
 “The new-home market and housing in general still face
serious headwinds from current economic and legislative
conditions,” Miller said on a conference call with investors.
“The prospect of additional delinquencies ahead continues to
moderate this recovery as shadow inventory continues to be
absorbed.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Willis  in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A Coldwell Banker sign stands outside an existing home for sale in Durham, North Carolina. Photographer: Jim R. Bounds/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
