-- Qatar's Gas-Fueled Growth May Slow by Half, Economic Adviser to Emir Says
-- Robert Tuttle
-- 2010-07-23T07:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/qatar-s-gas-fueled-growth-may-slow-by-half-economic-adviser-to-emir-says.html

          
          
             Qatar, the world’s fastest-growing
economy, may slow by more than half in the next two years as the
country completes its largest energy projects.  
 The Persian Gulf emirate, with the world’s third-largest
reserves of natural gas, is likely to post “double-digit”
growth for the next two years, said Ibrahim Ibrahim, economic
adviser to Qatar’s emir. Expansion will cool after that to an
annual nominal rate of no more than 9 percent, assuming the
government follows the guidance of senior economic planners, he
said in an interview in the Qatari capital of Doha.  
 The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts that Qatar’s
gross domestic product will increase this year by 19 percent,
faster than any other economy and double the country’s growth
rate for 2009. Energy wealth helped Qatar’s economy triple in
size since 2004. The  population  doubled in the same period, as
thousands of foreign workers arrived to build plants for
liquefying natural gas and the world’s biggest facility for
converting gas to liquid fuels.  
 “We are going to recommend a targeted economic growth that
emphasizes sustainability, competitiveness, and not just simply
a number,” Ibrahim said on July 21. While the country could maintain
double-digit growth beyond 2012, “we don’t believe” that
should be the strategy, he said.  
 Qatar has transformed itself in less than a century from
subsistence on pearling to the world’s second-richest country
per capita behind Lichtenstein, according to the  U.S. Central
Intelligence Agency World Factbook.   
 Marginalized  
 Among the planners’ concerns is the risk Qatar’s largely
foreign work force will expand and marginalize the role of
natives, said Ibrahim, head of the  General Secretariat for
Development Planning . Most of the nation’s 1.6 million people
are expatriates, and the population may grow as little as
500,000 by 2030 under the plan favored by the planning agency.  
 Qatar is the world’s largest producer of LNG, or gas
cooled to a liquid for transportation by ship. By the end of
this year, it is scheduled to complete the final two or 14
planned LNG units, raising annual production capacity to 77
million tons.  
 The country built its LNG plants in partnership with
international energy companies including Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Total SA and ConocoPhillips. Shell’s
Pearl GTL  gas-to-liquids plant  is due to be operating fully by
next year.  
 Moratorium  
 Qatar plans no additional liquid gas or gas-to-liquid
plants. A moratorium on developing the country’s offshore North
Field, the world’s largest gas reservoir, prevents the
construction of new plants before 2014 at the earliest.  
 Ibrahim said the growth targets set by the General
Secretariat for Development Planning assume that oil and gas
production volumes will remain “similar” to current levels
through 2016.  
 Meanwhile, the secretariat recommends that Qatar emphasize
technology and capital-intensive businesses over those that rely
more heavily on labor, Ibrahim said.  
 “We are recommending a different type of development path
that will reduce the dependence on foreign labor,” he said.  
 The country’s Emir Sheikh Hamad Bin  Khalifa Al-Thani  has
sought to turn his country into a regional center for education,
research and culture and to diversify the economy away from oil
and gas, which account for about half of Qatar’s gross domestic
product.  
 The nation’s sovereign wealth fund, the Qatar Investment
Authority, owns stakes in such diverse companies as Volkswagen
AG, Barclays Plc and Britain’s Harrods department store.  Six
U.S. universities  have opened campuses in Qatar, including
Georgetown, Carnegie Mellon and Texas A&M.  
 “Our target is to reduce dependence on oil and gas,”
Ibrahim said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        