-- Ralph Houk, World-Series Winning Manager of New York Yankees, Dies at 90
-- Larry DiTore
-- 2010-07-22T04:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/ralph-houk-world-series-winning-manager-of-new-york-yankees-dies-at-90.html

          
          
             Ralph Houk , the New York Yankees
manager who replaced legendary skipper  Casey Stengel  and won two
World Series titles in the Bronx, has died. He was 90.  
 Houk died yesterday at his home in Winter Haven, Florida,
the Yankees said on their  website .  
 Called “The Major” by his players, Houk spent eight
seasons as the backup to Hall-of-Fame catcher  Yogi Berra  and
played on five World Series-winning teams before succeeding
Stengel in 1961.  
 As a manager, Houk guided Yankees teams headed by  Mickey Mantle ,  Roger Maris  and  Whitey Ford  to three consecutive
American League pennants and a pair of World Series titles. He
then moved into the front office for New York for three years
before once again taking over in the dugout. He also managed
Major League Baseball’s Detroit Tigers and Boston Red Sox.  
 “I respected Ralph as a manager,” said former Tiger
 Willie Horton , who played for Detroit during Houk’s tenure from
1974 to 1976. “We had formed a good relationship after we both
retired from the game.”  
 Ralph George Houk was born on Aug. 9, 1919, in Lawrence,
Kansas, and was a catcher in the Yankees farm system when the
U.S. entered World War II. He enlisted and became an Army
Ranger, rising to the rank of major -- the source of his later
nickname -- and participated in the Battle of the Bulge. He
earned a Bronze Star, Silver Star and Purple Heart before the
war’s end.  
 Following Stengel  
 Houk returned to the Yankees after the war, where he acted
as Berra’s backup for much of his playing career. He appeared in
91 games from 1947-54, compiling a .272 average with 20 runs
batted in. In the Yankees’ six World Series appearances during
that span, Houk had one hit in two at-bats, a single during the
1947 Series.  
 He retired as a player after the 1953 season and took over
the Yankees’ Triple-A affiliate in Denver in 1955. Two years
later he returned to the Bronx as Stengel’s first-base coach, a
role he served in for two seasons.  
 Houk was elevated to manager for the 1961 season after the
Yankees fired Stengel following their loss in the World Series
the previous year. The team, led by Maris’s 61 home runs and
Mantle’s 54, won 109 games and beat the Cincinnati Reds in five
games to win the World Series.  
 The Yankees won the World Series again in 1962, winning 96
games during the regular season and beating the San Francisco
Giants in seven games to take their second straight title and
10th in 16 years.  
 New York won 104 games the following season to secure a
third consecutive pennant before being swept out of the World
Series by the Los Angeles Dodgers.  
 Moving for Berra  
 Houk took over as the Yankees general manager after that
season, handing over the team to Berra. He was in the front
office for two seasons before moving back into the dugout in
1966 to begin a less successful run as manager.  
 The Yankees finished higher than fourth place only once
over the next eight seasons and Houk resigned in 1973 after
working for one season under  George Steinbrenner , who died July
13 at the age of 80.  
 Houk took over the Detroit Tigers in 1974. He had a losing
record in the first four years and won 86 games in 1978. He
retired after that season at the age of 58.  
 Three years later he came out of retirement to take over in
Boston. He stayed with the Red Sox for four seasons, compiling a
winning record in all but one before retiring again after the
1984 season.  
 Houk, who was 1,619-1,531 in 3,157 games as a manager,
would work in the Minnesota front office under General Manager
 Andy MacPhail  before he retired for a third and last time in
1989. Until his death, he was the oldest living manager of a
World Series-winning team, according to the Yankees website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Larry DiTore  in New York at 
 lditore@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Ralph Houk, Former manager of the New York Yankees, poses for a portrait during Spring Training in March, 1961 in St. Petersburg, Florida. Photo by: Diamond Images/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       New York Yankees  
                       
                         
                           Larry C. Morris/New York Times Co./Getty Images 
                         
                         New York Yankees players shower their manager Ralph Houk with beer in celebration of their victory over the Washington Senators at Yankee Stadium in 1962. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     New York Yankees players shower their manager Ralph Houk with beer in celebration of their victory over the Washington Senators at Yankee Stadium in 1962. Photographer: Larry C. Morris/New York Times Co./Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
