-- Rand Paul, Jack Conway Face Off on Farm Aid in Kentucky U.S. Senate Race
-- John McCormick
-- 2010-07-22T20:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/rand-paul-jack-conway-face-off-on-farm-aid-in-kentucky-u-s-senate-race.html

          
          
             Republican U.S. Senate nominee  Rand Paul  questioned the wisdom of federal farm subsidies in a joint
appearance with Democratic opponent  Jack Conway  before the
 Kentucky Farm Bureau .  
 “I could come up here and say, ‘What do you want?’” Paul
said today. “The problem is: Where does the money come from?”  
 The libertarian-leaning Paul and Conway engaged in a two-
hour discussion of agribusiness issues. They are competing to
replace retiring Republican Senator  Jim Bunning  in a race that
is attracting national attention. Paul is leading 49 percent to
41 percent, according to a Rasmussen Poll of 750 likely voters
conducted two days ago.  
 “The back-pedaling has already begun,” Conway said after
Paul dismissed the suggestion that he wants to abolish the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  
 Paul said he saw a place for a “safety net” for farmers,
although he called for less regulation and protection from an
“overzealous” government.  
 “You help farmers the same way you help all businesses,”
he said. “You need to keep taxes low. You need to keep
regulations low. You need to keep the government out of your
hair.”  
 Conway repeatedly called Paul “risky” and said his
opponent would put his libertarian views ahead of the state’s
interests.  
 “I’m going to go up there and put Kentucky first,” Conway
said. “I’m not going to go up there and try to form some
obscure caucus where I can sit around and talk about Greece or
the Bolsheviks.”  
 Farm Subsidies  
 In a May primary, Paul beat Kentucky Secretary of State
 Trey Grayson , who had been backed by U.S. Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell  and the Republican establishment. Conway beat
Lieutenant Governor  Daniel Mongiardo  to win the Democratic
nomination.  
 Before the primary, Paul expressed opposition to farm
subsidies at a May 10 candidate  forum .  
 “I don’t think federal subsidies are a good idea,” he
said. “I’m not in favor of giving welfare to business.”  
 Kentucky  ranked  25th among the 50 states for farm subsidy
payments from 1995 through 2009, collecting $3 billion during
the period, according to the Washington-based  Environmental
Working Group , which opposes current subsidy formulas.  
 The payments encourage production and result in reduced
materials costs for companies such as  Archer Daniels Midland Co .  
 Paul said he would push for an expansion of trade to help
Kentucky farmers.  
 Favoring Trade  
 “Being in favor of trade is the best chance for farmers’
income to grow,” he said. “I cannot simply promise you that we
will just keep on passing out money.”  
 Both candidates said they are opposed to a cap-and-trade
system to limit carbon dioxide emissions, while allowing power
plants, factories and oil refineries to buy and sell pollution
credits.  
 Paul called such legislation a “disaster” for Kentucky
because of its dependence on coal.  
 He also made clear he plans to make the campaign as much
about President  Barack Obama  as about his Democratic opponent.  
 “Jack’s president, Obama, is suing the state of Arizona
now over their law,” he said, referring to a Justice Department
lawsuit against a state law that allows local law enforcement to
detain anyone who can’t produce proof of citizenship.  
 “This is a difficulty for him because President Obama is
so far to the left that he’s unacceptable to most of us in
Kentucky,” Paul said. “So a lot of this election is going to
be about is Jack going to support the president on this issue,
or is he going to run away.”  
 Independent Vote  
 Conway said he would be an independent vote in the Senate
and would welcome the president, should he decide to come to
Kentucky to campaign.  
 Paul, an ophthalmologist and son of Representative  Ron Paul 
of Texas, drew criticism after his primary win for calling the
White House’s criticism of  BP Plc  “un-American” following the
worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 He also attracted national attention when he expressed
misgivings about a portion of the Civil Rights Act that forces
businesses to serve customers regardless of race, citing his
support of property rights.  
 While McConnell opposed him in the primary, Paul said he
would likely support the senator on leadership votes.  
 “I’m a very big fan of Senator McConnell,” Paul said. “I
can see no reason why I won’t vote for him for leader.”  
 Paul and Conway are close in terms of finances. Paul has
said he raised more than $1.1 million during the quarter that
ended June 30, while Conway said he collected $1.4 million,
including a $400,000 loan from himself to the campaign.  
 Kentucky’s  unemployment  rate is 8 percent, below the
national average of 9.5 percent in June.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Louisville, Kentucky at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        