-- Treasury Two-Year Yield Near Record Low Before Jobless Claims, Home Sales
-- Wes Goodman
-- 2010-07-22T11:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/treasury-two-yield-at-record-low-before-jobless-claims-housing-figures.html

          
          
             Treasury two-year note yields
reached a record low for a third consecutive day on speculation
the Federal Reserve may have to consider more stimulus measures
to help sustain the U.S. economic recovery.  
 Ten-year note yields were near the lowest in 15 months
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
the economic outlook is “unusually uncertain” and policy
makers were prepared to take further action. The Treasury will
announce the smallest monthly offering of two-, five- and seven-
year notes since June 2009, according to survey of primary
dealers required to bid on the sales next week.  
 “All the bullish momentum definitely comes from
Bernanke,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at
UniCredit SpA in Munich. “I expect that the fixed-income
universe will remain well supported.”  
 The two-year  Treasury  yielded 0.56 percent at 7:20 a.m. in
New York, after reaching 0.5519 percent, the lowest on record.
The 0.625 percent note due June 2012 was unchanged at 100 4/32,
according to BGCantor Market Data.  
 Ten-year  yields  rose one basis point to 2.90 percent, after
dropping to 2.85 percent yesterday, the least since April 2009.  
 A report by the National Association of Realtors will show
 sales  of previously owned homes fell in June by the most this
year, according to the median of 74 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Initial jobless  claims rose to 445,000 last week from
429,000 in the prior period, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey before the Labor Department report today.  
 Stimulus Speculation  
 Economic reports over the past month that were weaker than
analysts projected have prompted investors to speculate the Fed
will increase monetary stimulus to spur economic growth and
reduce a  jobless rate  from close to a 26-year high.  
 Policy makers have kept the  target  for overnight loans
between banks in a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  
 Futures contracts on the CME Group Inc. exchange showed a
35 percent chance of the central bank boosting its target rate
for overnight lending between banks by at least a quarter-
percentage point by April, compared with a 61 percent likelihood
a month ago.  
 “Yields have room to fall further,” said  Satoshi Okumoto ,
who helps oversee the equivalent of $65.6 billion in assets as a
general manager at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Tokyo,
“The Fed won’t be able to raise interest rates for at least two
years.”  
 Sales next week may be the smallest monthly offering of the
securities since June 2009, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of 10 primary dealers, companies required to bid at the sales.  
 The Treasury plans to auction $39 billion in two-year
notes, $37 billion of five-year debt and $29 billion in seven-
year securities over three beginning July 27, according to the
survey. The total compares with $108 billion of the notes sold
last month and $113 billion auctioned in May.  
 Stimulus Tools  
 Treasuries  advanced yesterday as Bernanke told the Senate
Banking Committee that central bankers were ready to “take
further policy actions” to support growth.  
 Tools to boost the economy include reducing the rate paid
on banks’ reserves held at the Fed and using the central bank’s
 balance sheet , Bernanke said. Officials haven’t decided which
they might use, he said. The balance sheet reached the record
level of $2.354 trillion on May 19, the result of central bank
purchases of bonds to help reduce borrowing costs.  
 “The perception of major central banks having more
ammunition in store but a disinclination to use it is a
deliberately reassuring one,” Nomura Holdings Inc. strategists
in London led by  Nick Firoozye  wrote in an e-mailed note today.
“The possibility of further measures may ultimately restore a
more lasting degree of confidence while at the same time
underpinning bonds.”  
 House Address  
 The central bank chief is scheduled to address House
lawmakers today. He may use the opportunity to highlight areas
of strength in the U.S. economy, said  Geoff Howie , a senior vice
president at MF Global Singapore Ltd., part of the world’s
largest broker of exchange-traded futures and options.  
 “Bernanke outlined the problems. Now I see him coming out
and saying what he’s going to do about the problems,” he said.  
 Howie had been predicting 10-year yields of 3.5 percent in
the third quarter, and he said he’s considering reducing the
target to 3.25 percent.  
 A Bloomberg survey of banks and securities firms projects
the rate will climb to 3.32 percent by year-end. The survey
gives the heaviest weightings to the most recent forecasts.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        