-- Treasuries Fall, Pushing 2-Year Yields Up From Record Low, as Profits Rise
-- Susanne Walker
-- 2010-07-22T20:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/treasuries-decline-as-stocks-hold-gains-after-unemployment-claims-report.html

          
          
             Treasuries  fell, pushing two-year
yields up from a record low, as higher-than-forecast corporate
profits eased concern the Federal Reserve may have to consider
more stimulus to help sustain the U.S. economic recovery.  
 Two-year yields earlier touched all-time lows for a third
straight day and 10-year note yields traded near 15-month lows
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday policy makers
were prepared to take further action as needed. Stocks rose and
a report showed sales of U.S. previously owned homes in June
fell less than forecast.  
 “Stocks are doing better -- that could imply additional
economic growth, which would be negative for yields and good for
the economy,” said  Larry Dyer , a U.S. interest-rate strategist
in New York at HSBC Holdings Plc, one of 18 primary dealers that
trade with the U.S. central bank. “We also had a little bit of
an overshoot with Bernanke’s testimony yesterday.”  
 The benchmark 10-year note  yield  increased 5 basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.93 percent at 4:17 p.m. in New
York, according to BGCantor Market Data. It dropped yesterday to
2.85 percent, the least since April 2009. The 3.5 percent
security due in May 2020 fell 3/8, or $3.75 per $1,000 face
amount, to 104 26/32.  Thirty-year  yields were up 6 basis points
to 3.95 percent.  
 The two-year  Treasury  yield rose 1 basis point to 0.56
percent after reaching 0.5519 percent, the lowest on record.  
 The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index climbed 2.3 percent, the
most in two weeks, after companies that included AT&T Inc.,
United Parcel Service Inc. and EBay Inc. reported quarterly
earnings that surpassed analysts’ estimates.  
 Treasury Auctions  
 The Treasury announced it will sell $104 billion of two-,
five- and seven-year notes next week, the lowest total since it
sold an equal amount of the securities in June 2009.  
 Bonds extended losses after National Association of
Realtors data showed purchases of existing houses fell 5.1
percent last month, short of the 9.9 percent drop forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  
 The Federal Housing Finance Agency’s house price index
unexpectedly rose 0.5 percent in May, compared with a 0.3
percent drop forecast in a separate Bloomberg survey. The
Conference Board’s index of leading indicators fell 0.2 percent
in June, less than forecast.  
 “It was the leading indicators and house price index that
turned the market,” said  Christian Cooper , senior rates trader
in New York at primary dealer Jefferies & Co. “We already came
in with a negative tone on Treasuries with people thinking the
reaction yesterday was overdone.”  
 Bernanke Testimony  
 Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee in
response to a question that the central bank is prepared to take
further policy actions “if the economy does not continue to
improve, if we don’t see the kind of improvements in the labor
market that we are hoping for and expecting.”  
 His prepared remarks were identical to his testimony
yesterday to the Senate Banking Committee, in which he said
policy makers are ready to act to aid growth even as they
prepare to eventually decrease interest rates from almost zero.  
 New York Fed President  William Dudley  said today at a press
briefing the U.S. economic expansion may slow this quarter,
while a relapse into  recession  is unlikely.  
 “Growth in the third quarter may turn out to be a bit less
than we saw in the first half of the year, though we think there
is only a slight risk of a double dip” recession, Dudley said.  
 Forecast Lowered  
 Fed officials at their June policy meeting lowered their
forecast for growth this year to a range of between 3 percent
and 3.5 percent, from 3.2 percent to 3.7 percent in April,
minutes released on July 14 showed.  
 Traders cut bets to 32 percent that the Fed will increase
its target rate for overnight lending between banks by its April
meeting, down from a 61 percent probability a month ago,
according to CME Group Inc. futures. The bank has held the
benchmark rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  
 The Treasury said it will auction $38 billion in two-year
notes, $37 billion of five-year debt and $29 billion in seven-
year securities over three consecutive days starting July 27.
The amount was $1 billion less than the $105 billion median
forecast this week in a Bloomberg survey of 10 primary dealers.  
 The total compares with $108 billion of the notes sold last
month and $113 billion in May. It is the third straight month
the government has lowered its offering of the notes.  
 The U.S. budget deficit in June shrank from a year earlier,
to $68.4 billion from $94.3 billion, the Treasury reported on
July 13. Even so, the deficit this fiscal year is forecast to
reach a record $1.6 trillion as the government funds efforts to
revive growth and employment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        