-- Treasury Curve to Flatten on Economic `Lost Decade,' Mitsubishi UFJ Says
-- Saburo Funabiki
-- 2010-07-22T03:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/treasury-curve-to-flatten-on-economic-lost-decade-mitsubishi-ufj-says.html

          
          
             The Treasury yield curve may flatten
on expectations the Federal Reserve will delay raising interest
rates as the U.S. economy risks entering a Japanese-style “lost
decade,”  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.  said.  
 The U.S. may slip into a period of economic contraction
similar to Japan’s during the mid 1990s to early 2000, when the
Bank of Japan held interest rates near zero and conducted
quantitative easing, said  Kenichi Imai , chief manager of
proprietary trading at the unit of Japan’s largest banking group.
Ten-year Treasury  yields  may reach a 15-month low of 2.75
percent in the near term from 2.86 percent today, Imai said.  
 “For the Japanese, who have experienced a long period of
stagnation and monetary easing, the current movement in
Treasuries looks familiar,” Imai said. “With the effect of
government stimulus measures wearing off, the U.S. economy may
face a prolonged soft patch, rather than a double bottom.”  
 Treasury yields from five to 10 years dropped at least 90
basis points from three months ago, narrowing their premiums
over shorter-dated yields, according to Bloomberg data. The
 difference  between two- and seven-year yields was 175 basis
points today, the least since May 2009.  
 Two-year yields were at a record low after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the Senate Banking Committee
yesterday that the economic outlook is “unusually uncertain”
and policy makers are prepared “to take further policy
actions.” Bernanke will testify to the House Financial
Services Committee today.  
 Banks with excess funds may shift to higher-yielding
longer-dated bonds from shorter-term debt as corporate funding
demand slumps in Japan and the U.S., Imai said. Japanese demand
for Treasuries may increase as Japan’s 10-year yields approach a
seven-year low, according to Imai.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saburo Funabiki  in Tokyo at 
 sfunabiki@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        