-- Roche Profit Rises 58% on Lower Integration Costs
-- Dermot Doherty
-- 2010-07-22T15:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/roche-first-half-profit-climbs-to-5-4-billion-on-lower-integration-costs.html

          
          
             Roche Holding AG , the world’s
biggest maker of cancer drugs, reported a 58 percent increase in
first-half profit, helped by lower costs associated with the
integration of Genentech.  
 Net income rose to 5.47 billion Swiss francs ($5.2 billion)
from 3.47 billion francs a year ago after costs linked to the
acquisition of the U.S. biotechnology company weren’t repeated,
the Basel, Switzerland-based  company  said today. Roche doesn’t
report quarterly profit.  
 Roche is getting more income from its top-selling cancer
medicines thanks to Genentech, which it fully acquired last year
for $46.8 billion. The company is seeking to reassure investors
that growth remains intact after the Avastin tumor medicine
failed in two trials this year. A U.S. advisory panel this week
recommended regulators revoke approval for the drug as a breast
cancer treatment. Sales in the pharmaceutical unit fell 2.3
percent in the quarter, dragged down by lower revenue from the
antiviral Tamiflu.  
 “The results are not really that positive,”  Birgit Kulhoff , an analyst at Rahn & Bodmer in Zurich, said in a
telephone interview. “Even without Tamiflu, the second-quarter
pharma sales were underwhelming.”  
 Shares Rise  
 The shares rose 1.4 francs, or 1 percent, to 138.4. Roche
has fallen 8.5 percent since July 15, the day before a U.S. Food
and Drug Administration advisory panel concluded Avastin didn’t
slow breast tumors in new studies as much as in earlier tests
used to win approval.  
 Roche spent 278 million francs on integration in the first
half, compared with 1.94 billion francs a year ago.  
 Roche reiterated its forecast for the year, saying earnings
per share excluding some items will probably increase at a
double-digit pace in 2010 at constant exchange rates. Sales are
expected to grow in the mid-single-digit range in local
currencies. The outlook excludes revenue from the Tamiflu
influenza treatment. Sales of the drug were boosted last year by
demand linked to pandemic swine flu.  
 Roche expects global health reform to strip about 2
percentage points off of sales this year and 2.5 percentage
points from revenue next year, Chief Executive Officer  Severin Schwan  and pharmaceutical unit head  Pascal Soriot  said today.  
 “Certainly we have seen an increased pressure from
governments in terms of pricing, be it the U.S. health-care
reform, be it the austerity measures in Europe,” Schwan said in
a conference call with reporters today.  
 Drug Sales Fall  
 Revenue from the pharmaceuticals division fell during the
second quarter to 9.66 billion francs as Tamiflu sales declined
to 193 million francs from 609 million francs. The treatment,
shown to ease the symptoms and duration of infection with the
flu virus, generated 3.2 billion francs in sales last year.
Roche expects Tamiflu to bring in about 1 billion francs in
revenue this year, lower than a previous estimate of 1.2 billion
francs, as concerns about pandemic flu wane.  
 Sales of Avastin advanced 7.5 percent to 1.73 billion
francs, less than analyst estimates of 1.78 billion francs.
Roche wants to expand use of the medicine, which is approved for
cancers including those of the lung and colorectal system, by
testing it in different tumors and earlier in the disease.  
 Advisory Panel  
 An advisory panel to the U.S. FDA said July 20 that Avastin
doesn’t work well enough to be prescribed for breast tumors. The
FDA usually follows its advisory panels’ recommendations, though
it isn’t required to do so. The regulator ignored the advice of
the panel when it granted Avastin conditional approval for
breast cancer in 2008.  
 Withdrawal of approval may trim as much as $1 billion from
annual sales by 2015, said  Jack Scannell , an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London. The FDA is scheduled to
make a final decision by Sept. 17.  
 Peak annual sales of the medicine would likely be at the
low end of the company’s current forecast of 8 billion to 9
billion Swiss francs forecast if the FDA decides to revoke
approval, Schwan said.  
 “If we look at metastatic breast cancer sales in the U.S.,
this is about 600 million Swiss francs, so we are talking here
about 1 percent of total group sales,” Schwan said on the call.
“Avastin continues to be a strong, growing brand due to strong
growth in the other indications and strong growth in particular
in the international markets and in the emerging markets.”  
 Fails in Tests  
 Study results released this year showed Avastin failed to
prolong the lives of patients suffering from prostate and
stomach cancer, although the treatment stalled ovarian tumors.
Roche plans to ask regulators to approve the medicine in this
cancer by the end of the year. Avastin is being tested in more
than 400 clinical trials involving 40,000 patients worldwide.  
 Revenue from Roche’s diagnostics division increased 7.5
percent to 2.73 billion francs. The Swiss drugmaker is looking
to strengthen connections between its pharmaceutical and
diagnostics units to better match patients with the most
suitable treatments.  
 Roche also said it is accelerating repayment of the debt it
took on to buy Genentech and expects to have repaid one-third of
the cost by the end of the year.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dermot Doherty  in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Roche profit rises 58%  
                       
                         
                           Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg 
                         
                         A Roche Holding AG plant is seen by street light in Basel. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     A Roche Holding AG plant is seen by street light in Basel. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Roche Holding AG CEO Severin Schwan. Photographer: Peter Frommenwiler/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
