-- Vitro, Tronox, Madoff, Lehman, Chemtura: Bankruptcy
-- Bill Rochelle
-- 2010-07-22T12:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/tronox-fairfield-national-envelope-point-blank-south-bay-bankruptcy.html

          
          
             Noteholders of Vitro SAB,  Mexico ’s
largest glassmaker, turned down the latest offer to restructure
$1.2 billion in debt that’s been in default for 15 months.  
 Vitro announced yesterday morning that it made a “revised
counterproposal” to an ad hoc group holding $500 million in
face amount of the three issues of notes. Vitro didn’t disclose
terms of the offer.  
 Late yesterday afternoon the ad hoc noteholder group issued
a statement saying they rejected the proposal. The noteholders
believe the offer “continues to undervalue the financial
condition of Vitro’s business.” The debt holders also see the
offer as intended to “redistribute value away from Vitro’s
creditors to its shareholders.”  
 The creditors’ statement concluded by saying that the
noteholders are “reviewing the exercise of appropriate remedies
and options.”  
 Monterrey, Mexico-based Vitro, in its announcement early
yesterday, said it hoped to begin a consent solicitation in
early August.  
 Vitro first missed interest payments on the notes in
February 2009. The noteholders since then have accelerated the
debt, making it all due and payable.  
 Updates  
 Lehman’s Cash Increases to $18.92 Billion in June  
   Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . had $18.92 billion cash at
the end of June, the holding company for the liquidating broker
said in a monthly operating report filed late yesterday. Cash
rose by about $525 million during the month.  
 Cash receipts in the month were $1.9 billion.  
 Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. led the Lehman
companies with $7.4 billion cash. In second place was Lehman
Commercial Paper Inc. with $3.3 billion, followed by the holding
company with $2.1 billion.  
 Professional fees since the case began now total $873
million, including $42.7 million in June.  
 Alvarez & Marsal LLC, the financial advisers, billed $15.6
million in June, bringing the total since September 2008 to
$311.6 million. The fees for Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP, chief
bankruptcy counsel, now total $200.6 million, including $9.8
million in June. Attorneys for the official creditors’ committee
from Milbank Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP have been paid $56.5
million, including $3.6 million in June.  
 For details on the revised plan and disclosure statement
that Lehman filed in April, click here and here for the April 15
and 16 Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  
 The Lehman holding company filed under Chapter 11 in  New
York  on Sept. 15, 2008, and sold office buildings and the North
American investment banking business to London-based  Barclays
Plc  one week later. The Lehman brokerage operations went into
liquidation on Sept. 19, 2008, in the same court. The brokerage
is in the control of a trustee appointed under the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  
 The Lehman holding company Chapter 11 case is In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555, while the liquidation
proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act for the
brokerage operation is Securities Investors Protection Corp. v.
Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420, both in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District New York   Manhattan ).  
 Lexington Precision Confirms Plan in 27-Month Case  
 The Lexington Precision Corp. reorganization plan was
approved at a hearing yesterday when the bankruptcy judge in New
York signed a confirmation order.  
 To confirm the plan, the manufacturer of rubber components
for autos and medical devices needed to use the so-called
cramdown process because unsecured creditors of the operating
company Lexington Rubber Group voted “no.” The plan has the
class being paid in full over ten quarterly installments, with
interest.  
 Prior to the confirmation hearing, the creditors’ committee
negotiated an improvement in the interest rate to be paid to the
class that voted against the plan. With the sweetened plan, the
committee didn’t object to confirmation and cramdown.  
 The plan is partially funded by selling $22 million in
stock at $10 a share to Commercial Finance Services 407 LLC.  
 It reduces debt by more than $50 million while giving
holders of senior subordinated notes an estimated 51 percent
recovery. Subordinated noteholders, owed $34.18 million in
principal, may elect between taking 51 percent in cash or swap
for stock at roughly $20 of debt for each new share.  
 General unsecured creditors of Lexington Precision are
estimated to have an 85.4 percent recovery, according to the
disclosure statement. They are to have 8 percent in cash on
implementation of the plan, with the remainder paid 8.6 percent
in cash at each of the ensuing nine quarters. The disclosure
statement says that the present value of the payments is 80
percent.  
 Alternatively, unsecure creditors can elect to receive 51
percent paid in cash.  
 Asbestos claims are to be paid in full with insurance
proceeds. If insurance is insufficient, the remainder will be
paid over time like general unsecured creditors. Secured debt
under the company’s plan is to be paid in full through revised
credit agreements.  
 Lexington filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in April 2008
when negotiations failed with an ad hoc committee of holders of
the senior subordinated notes. The detailed lists of assets and
debt show property with a value of $42 million against
liabilities totaling $41.3 million, including $36.4 million in
secured claims. Revenue in 2008 was $88.5 million. Manhattan-
based Lexington has three plants and more than 650 workers.  
 The case is In re  Lexington Precision Corp ., 08-11153, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  
 Chemtura Reorganization Plan Will Go to Creditors for Vote  
 The bankruptcy judge told chemical maker Chemtura Corp. at
a hearing yesterday that he will approve a disclosure statement
explaining the Chapter 11 plan after changes are made.  
 The judge also denied a motion where the official equity
committee sought permission to file a competing plan of its own.
The hearing for approval of a so-called plan-support agreement
was put off until Aug. 4. The shareholders are objecting to the
agreement where the creditors’ committee and an ad hoc group of
bondholders bind themselves to support the reorganization plan
originally filed in June.  
 For Bloomberg coverage of yesterday’s hearing, click here.  
 Chemtura’s plan, supported by the creditors’ committee and
the ad hoc bondholder group, is designed to pay creditors in
full while holding the possibility of preserving some value for
existing shareholders. The plan would reduce debt for borrowed
money from $1.3 billion to approximately $750 million. For
details, click here for the June 18 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Chapter 11 petition in March 2009 by Middlebury,
Connecticut-based Chemtura listed assets of $3.06 billion
against debt totaling $2.6 billion, including $1.02 billion
owing on three issues of notes and debentures. Sales in 2008 of
$3.5 billion declined to $2.5 billion in 2009. The subsidiaries
outside of the U.S. didn’t file.  
 The case is Chemtura Corp., 09-11233, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Tronox Reports $600,000 Net Loss in June, Sales $61.3 Million  
 Tronox Inc., the world’s third-largest producer of the
white pigment titanium dioxide, reported a $600,000 net loss in
June on net sales of $61.3 million. Interest expense was $2.8
million while reorganization items were $9.1 million.  
 At yesterday’s hearing, Tronox said it’s officially
rejecting an agreement governing the spinoff from Kerr-McGee
Corp. Tronox had said that Kerr-McGee and its parent  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp . were trying to “throw a wrench” into the
reorganization by attempting to force an assumption of the
agreement.  
 The agreement is a bone of contention in the lawsuit where
Tronox is hoping to recover environmental remediation costs it
was given when spun off from Kerr-McGee in March 2006. Tronox
contends the agreement was an element of a larger fraudulent
transfer.  
 Tronox filed a reorganization plan earlier this month where
unsecured creditors with an estimated $471 million in claims
will realize a recovery between 80 percent and 100 percent by
receiving most or all of the new common stock. The hearing for
approval of the explanatory disclosure statement is set for Aug.
10.  
 To read details on the plan, click here for the July 16
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  
 The Chapter 11 petition by Tronox in January 2009 listed
assets of $1.56 billion against debt totaling $1.22 billion.
Debt includes $213 million on a secured term loan and revolving
credit, $350 million in 9.5 percent senior notes, and a $40.7
million accounts receivable securitization facility. Tronox’s
products are used in paints, coatings, plastics, paper and
consumer products. The operations outside of the U.S. didn’t
file.  
 The case is In re  Tronox Inc ., 09-10156, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  
 Madoff Trustee Adds 43 Defendants to Fairfield Suit  
 The trustee for Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc. added 43 new defendants to a $3.5 billion lawsuit he began
in May 2009 against three  hedge funds  managed by Fairfield
Greenwich Group. The new defendants include the group’s co-
founder Walter Noel. To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The funds themselves discharged Fairfield Greenwich as
manager and are in liquidation in the High Court of Justice in
the British Virgin Islands. The liquidators for the funds filed
Chapter 15 petitions in New York in June.  
 The Madoff trustee said in court filing last week that he
won’t oppose the Chapter 15 petitions because the liquidators
agreed the automatic stay won’t “impede” his actions against
the funds.  
 The trustee’s original suit sought to recover $3.54
billion, including $3.2 billion withdrawn within six years and
$1.2 billion taken out in 90 days before bankruptcy.  
 Bernard Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence
following a guilty plea. The Madoff firm began liquidating in
December 2008 with the appointment of a trustee under the
Securities Investor Protection Act.  Bernard Madoff  himself went
into an involuntary Chapter 7 liquidation in April 2009. His
bankruptcy case was consolidated with the firm’s liquidation.  
 The Fairfield Chapter 15 case is In re Fairfield Sentry
Ltd., 10-13164, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New
York (Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The criminal case is U.S. v.
Madoff, 09-cr-00213, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  
 National Envelope-Cenveo Bidding Compromise Possible  
 The creditors’ committee for National Envelope Corp.
proposed a compromise it hopes will enable to Cenveo Corp. to
receive financial information and participate in an auction.  
 National Envelope, which calls itself the largest closely
held envelope manufacturing company in the U.S., has a hearing
today to set up auction procedures where Gores Group LLC is
already under contract to pay $134.5 million. Cenveo has been
objecting, saying the sale process so far has been “designed to
exclude Cenveo and bidders like it.”  
 The committee, in July 20 papers, said it understands
National Envelope’s concern that Cenveo, a major competitor, may
not have financial resources to complete an acquisition. To
resolve the uncertainty, the committee proposes that Cenveo
procure a letter from its lenders saying that use of the credit
facilities and cash won’t violate loan covenants.  
 Cenveo has been saying that it would bid more than Gores.  
 National Envelope filed under Chapter 11 on June 10. It
wants bids initially by Aug. 16, followed by an auction on Aug.
20 and an Aug. 23 hearing for approval of the sale.  
 National Envelope’s loan agreement, with General Electric
Capital Corp. as agent, required having a sale agreement by July
2 and approval of sale procedures by July 16.  
 NEC, based in Uniondale, New York, has 14 manufacturing
plants in 11 states, plus three warehouses. Net sales in 2009
were $676 million, resulting in a $44.2 million net loss. The
petition says assets and debt are both less than $500 million.
Liabilities include $74.3 million on a secured term loan, $70.6
million on a secured revolving credit, and $89 million owing on
unsecured debts to trade suppliers.  
 The case is In re NEC Holdings Corp., 10-11890, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  
 Cabi Downtown Committee Settles, Supports Reorganization Plan  
 The creditors’ committee for Cabi Downtown LLC settled its
disputes and agreed to support a modified Chapter 11 plan
resulting from a settlement between the lender and the owner of
the 49-story  Everglades on the Bay  condominium in Miami.  
 The plan allows Bank of America NA, the construction
lender, to take title to the project while the developer remains
as manager. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank is owed
$207 million. The confirmation hearing for approval of the plan
will take place in October.  
 General unsecured creditors were to share $750,000 cash,
although only if they voted in favor of the plan. If the class
voted “no,” they were to receive $500,000.  
 The committee objected and hammered out a revised plan,
Michael S. Budwick, counsel for the creditors’ committee, said
in an interview. Budwick is from  Meland Russin & Budwick PA .  
 The plan now provides for unsecured creditors to receive
$750,000, for a 25 percent recovery on $3 million in claims. The
plan was also revised so that large, disputed claims wouldn’t
dilute the recovery by unsecured creditors.  
 Budwick said the settlement was an “extraordinary result.
Typically unsecured creditors in these circumstances receive
nothing.”  
 Prior to settlement, Cabi had a plan where Bank of America
was being offered a five-year secured note with 2.5 percent
interest paid in cash. The interest rate would have been the
London interbank offered rate plus 2.5 percent, with the
difference paid in more debt. Believing the prior plan was
unconfirmable, the bank had filed a motion to dismiss the
Chapter 11 case.  
 Cabi filed for Chapter 11 reorganization in August 2009,
just after the bank began foreclosure.  
 The company is owed by  GICSA , which says it is the largest
and most profitable real estate developer in Mexico.  
 The case is In re Cabi Downtown LLC, 09-27168, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District  Florida  (Miami).  
 Statistics  
 Liquidity Deteriorating Among Junk-Rated Companies  
 Liquidity among the lowest junk-rated companies is
beginning to deteriorate for the first time in 15 months,
Moody’s Investors Service said in a report yesterday.  
 Moody’s liquidity-stress index for the lowest junk-rated
companies increased to 5.5 percent in mid-July. It was 5 percent
at the end of June and 4.8 percent in May.  
 Moody’s estimates that companies with junk debt are facing
$800 billion in maturities through 2014.  
 June 2007 was the last time Moody’s liquidity-stress index
began to deteriorate. The index peaked at 21 percent in March
2009 and declined every month until June.  
 The index, at 5.5 percent, is still low by historical
standards, Moody’s said. The average since 2002 is 8.4 percent.  
 New Filing  
 Albuquerque Movie Studio Files to Reorganize in  California   
 Pacifica Mesa Studios LLC, the owner of a movie studio in
Albuquerque, New Mexico, filed a Chapter 11 petition on July 20
in Woodland Hills, California, listing assets of $47.3 million
against debt totaling $104.5 million.  
 The studio, known as Albuquerque Studios or ABQ Studios,
has an $80 million first mortgage and a $23 million second
mortgage. Pacifica says in court papers that the property is
worth $54 million.  
 The lender on the first mortgage is Longview Ultra I. The
second-lien lender is Workers Realty Trust II LP. The company is
owned by Dana Arnold and Hal Katersky, according to a court
filing along with the petition.  
 For other Bloomberg coverage, click here.  
 The case is In re Pacifica Mesa Studios LLC, 10-18827, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Central District California (Woodland Hills).  
 Briefly Noted  
 General Growth Summerlin Disputes in Court Today  
   General Growth Properties Inc . has a hearing today where
the bankruptcy judge will decide whether he or an arbitration
panel will decide what former investors in Hughes Corp. should
receive in the Chapter 11 plan. For Bloomberg coverage, click
here to read today’s feature story. Click here and here for
discussions of the bankruptcy issues from the June 21 and July 1
Bloomberg bankruptcy reports.  
 General Growth’s property-owning subsidiaries already have
confirmed Chapter 11 plans paying their creditors in full. The
four top-tier companies filed a plan this month also promising
full payment while preserving some of the stock for existing
shareholders. The plan is financed with an $8.55 billion debt
and equity commitment from a group led by  Brookfield Asset
Management Inc . Teacher Retirement System of  Texas  has a
separate commitment to buy $500 million of new stock at $10.25 a
share.  
 General Growth hopes to emerge from reorganization in
October, remaining the second-largest mall owner in the U.S.
with 180 properties in 43 states.  
 General Growth began the largest real-estate reorganization
in history by filing under Chapter 11 in April 2009. The books
of Chicago-based General Growth had assets of $29.6 billion and
total liabilities of $27.3 billion as of Dec. 31, 2008.  
 The case is In re General Growth Properties Inc., 09-11977,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  
 Texas Rangers Hearing on Auction Date Continues Today  
 The hearing consumed another day yesterday on whether the
auction for the  Texas Rangers  baseball team should go ahead on
schedule. The hearing continues today. For Bloomberg coverage,
click here.  
 The Rangers filed under Chapter 11 on May 24 with a
contract selling the team to a group including current team
President Nolan Ryan and sports lawyer  Chuck Greenberg . The
price was raised to $306.7 million cash. The lenders would
recover $256 million, according to the team’s disclosure
statement based on the original contract for $304 million. The
Rangers moved from  Washington  to Texas in 1972. The team
defaulted on payments owing to the lenders in March 2009.
Michael “Buzz” Rochelle, a brother of Bloomberg reporter Bill
Rochelle, is a lawyer for an agent for the lenders. The
partnership that owns the team is Texas Rangers Baseball
Partners.  
 The case is In re Texas Rangers Baseball Partners, 10-
43400, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Fort
Worth).  
 Point Blank Reports $1.09 Million Operating Loss in June  
   Point Blank Solutions Inc ., a manufacturer of soft body
armor for the military and law enforcement, reported a $1.11
million net loss in June on net sales of $6.46 million. The
operating loss in the month was $1.09 million. Reorganization
items were $545,000.  
 Point Blank has a plant and head office in Pompano Beach,
Florida, and a second plant in Jacksboro, Tennessee. Revenue in
2009 was more than $153 million. The petition listed assets of
$64 million against debt totaling $68.5 million. Debt included a
$10.5 million secured loan to be paid off by financing for the
Chapter 11 case. Point Blank said it also owes $28.2 million to
trade suppliers. Three former officers were indicted on charges
of securities fraud.  
 The case is In re Point Blank Solutions Inc., 10-11255,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware.  
 South Bay Express Loses $3.05 Million in June  
 South Bay Expressway LP , the owner of a nine-mile toll road
near San Diego, generated $1.99 million revenue in June,
resulting in a $3.05 million net loss in view of $3.88 million
in depreciation, amortization, legal costs, and $1 million in
so-called adequate protection for secured lenders.  
 The expressway opened in November 2007. It owes $340
million on a first-lien construction and term loan plus another
$170 million first-lien obligation on a loan provided by the
U.S. Transportation Department. Ownership of the toll road is
controlled by affiliates of Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd .  
 The case is In re South Bay Expressway LP, 10-04516, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District California (San Diego).  
 Daily Podcast  
 WaMu, Texas Rangers, Innkeepers Trust: Audio  
 Atypical events in the Washington Mutual reorganization,
the new bankruptcy judge handling newly filed Innkeepers USA
Trust, and developments in the  Texas Rangers  reorganization are
discussed in the latest bankruptcy podcast on the Bloomberg
terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        