-- Rubber Futures Decline to Six-Week Low as Crude Oil Drops, Yen Strengthen
-- Supunnabul Suwannakij
-- 2010-07-22T07:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/rubber-futures-decline-to-one-week-low-as-crude-oil-drops-yen-strengthens.html

          
          
             Rubber declined to the lowest level
in six weeks as lower oil prices and a strengthening Japanese
currency hurt demand for the commodity amid concern that the
global economic recovery may falter. Thai supplies also gained.  
 The most-active contract in Tokyo fell as much as 2.6,
heading for a second weekly drop. The yen rose against the
dollar after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
yesterday that the U.S. economic outlook remains “unusually
uncertain,” boosting demand for Japan’s currency as a refuge.  
 A “declining crude oil price and stronger yen damped
market sentiment,” Varut Rungkhum, an analyst at commodity
broker Agro Wealth Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok. Gains in
the Japanese currency cut the appetite for yen-based contracts.  
 The yen climbed against all of its 16 major counterparts as
Bernanke that said policy makers are prepared to act as needed
to aid economic growth, adding to traders’ bets that the U.S.
central bank will keep interest rates near zero.  
 December-delivery rubber fell as much as 6.8 yen to 256.7
yen per kilogram ($2,968 a metric ton), the lowest level since
June 9, before settling at 257.3 yen on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange. July-delivery rubber gained 1.5 percent to 357.2 yen,
after rising 2.2 percent yesterday.  
 “Investors are worried slow economic recovery may weaken
demand,” Navarat Kaewpratarn, a senior marketing official at
Future Agri Trade Co. ,said by phone from Bangkok.  
 November-delivery rubber on the Shanghai Futures Exchange
dropped 0.7 percent to 21,615 yuan ($3,188) a ton.  
 Oil Drops  
 Oil for September delivery fell to as much 0.5 percent to
$76.16 a barrel after an Energy Department report showed U.S.
crude inventories climbed 360,000 barrels to 353.5 million last
week. Lower oil prices make natural rubber less attractive
against rival synthetic products made from petroleum.  
 Natural-rubber “supplies from southern Thailand have
improved as rainfall declined, and this also put pressure on
rubber prices,” Varut said. Thailand is the world’s top rubber
exporter.  
 Cash prices in Thailand declined as Chinese buyers have put
off orders and some investors are concerned that there’s a
weaker pace of recovery in China and the U.S., the  Rubber
Research Institute of Thailand  said on its website today. The
Thai benchmark price fell 1 percent to 103.65 baht a kilogram.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        