-- Russian Bonds Lose to Emerging Markets as Yield Gap Drops to 10-Month Low
-- Denis Maternovsky
-- 2010-07-22T21:53:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/russia-bonds-lose-to-emerging-markets-as-yield-gap-drops-to-10-month-low.html

          
          
             Russia’s borrowing  cost  advantage is
falling to a 10-month low as the economic recovery in the
world’s largest energy exporter lags behind peers and almost $12
billion of debt sales outstrip investor demand.  
 Yields on foreign-currency debt sold by Prime Minister
 Vladimir Putin’s  administration were 54 basis points, or 0.54
percentage point, less than the emerging-markets average
yesterday and touched 47 on July 20, the smallest gap since
September, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI+ Indexes.
Five months ago, the spread was 105.  
 Russia’s bonds returned less than emerging-market debt for
six months, the longest streak since 2006, according to JPMorgan
data. Government  yields  are about 60 percent below the average
since 1997. That’s hurting demand as the economy expanded 2.9
percent in the first quarter, compared with 8.95 percent in
Brazil and 11.9 percent in China.  
 “At these levels there’s not a lot of screaming value” in
Russian sovereign debt, said  Edwin Gutierrez , a London-based
emerging-market money manager at Aberdeen. The firm’s $531
million  Aberdeen Emerging Markets Bond Fund  beat 84 percent of
peers in the past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“They happened to price a lot of bonds almost at the market
top. Among the BRIC economies, Russia is the laggard.”  
 Russian debt has underperformed as investors speculated
spending cuts by indebted European countries and China’s efforts
to slow its economy will curb global demand for oil, Russia’s
largest source of export earnings.  Gross domestic product  will
probably expand 4.3 percent this year, compared with 6.8 percent
in developing nations as a group, according to the International
Monetary Fund. Crude has slumped 9.4 percent from this year’s
closing high on April 6 to $78.65 a barrel in New York.  
 Record Low  
 The government’s foreign-currency debt returned 4.3 percent
from January through July 21, about half the 8.3 percent rally
in global emerging-market bonds, according to EMBI+ Indexes. The
extra yield investors demand to own Russia bonds over U.S.
Treasuries was 244 basis points yesterday, compared with 298 for
emerging markets, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Index. Similarly
rated Mexico notes trade at 167 and Brazil, which is rated one
step lower at BBB- by S&P, has a spread of 216, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ Indexes.  
 Russian sovereign yields fell to a record low 4.9 percent
on April 20 and were at 5.18 percent on July 21. That compares
with an average 13.4 percent since the JPMorgan index started in
December 1997. Russia has a BBB rating from Standard & Poor’s,
the second-lowest investment-grade ranking.  
 The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps dropped about 3 basis
points to 170 basis points on July 21, according to London-based
CMA’s prices. Default swaps, which rise as the perception of
credit quality deteriorates, pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  
 1998 Default  
 The yield on ruble bonds sold by state-controlled gas
producer OAO Gazprom is 220 basis points more than the same-
maturity Gazprom debt in dollars, down from a yield difference
of about 600 a year ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
spread narrowed to as little as 115 on June 14.  
 The ruble strengthened 0.1 percent to 30.425 per dollar in
Moscow yesterday. Non-deliverable forwards, or NDFs, which
provide a guide to expectations of currency movements as they
allow foreign investors and companies to fix the exchange rate
at a specific level in the future, show the ruble weakening to
30.5612 per dollar in three months.  
 The government’s $5.5 billion April bond sale, the first
international issue since Russia defaulted on $40 billion of
ruble debt in 1998, is the most dollar debt sold by an emerging-
market government this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. State companies, led by Vnesheconombank and OAO
Sberbank, issued $6.4 billion of debt.  
 ‘More Time’  
 Russian debt is likely to outperform emerging-market peers
as issuance slows, said  Jeremy Brewin , head of developing-nation
bonds at Aviva Investors in London, which oversees about $377
billion.  
 “We had quite a bit of Russian supply and it means the
range of investors in Russian debt need more time to absorb
it,” Brewin said in an interview. “The Russian asset class, in
particular the sovereign and the sub-sovereign, they have some
good value.”  
 Russia raised 34 billion rubles ($1.1 billion) less than
offered at two bond  auctions  on July 21 as investors demanded
higher yields than the government was willing to pay. The
Finance Ministry has sold about 21 percent of the 1.2 trillion
rubles of bonds planned for this year to plug its second budget
shortfall since 1999.  
 Economic growth may continue to trail peers because Russian
banks are reluctant to lend, said Aberdeen’s Gutierrez. Total
lending rose 2 percent in June, down from a 2.6 percent gain in
May,  Mikhail Sukhov , a central bank board member, said in St.
Petersburg on July 8.  
 “It does have an impaired banking system, and that
unfortunately isn’t going to change in the near term,” said
Gutierrez. “Credit is not going to be a strong engine of
growth.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Denis Maternovsky  at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Russia’s bonds returned less than emerging-market debt  
                       
                         
                           Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Russia's prime minister Vladimir Putin. Photographer: Giuseppe Aresu/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
