-- S&P Places Ukraine Ratings on CreditWatch Positive on Improving Finances
-- Daryna Krasnolutska
-- 2010-07-22T13:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/s-p-places-ukraine-ratings-on-creditwatch-positive-on-improving-finances.html

          
          
             Standard & Poor’s may raise
Ukraine’s credit ratings for the third time this year after the
government narrowed the budget deficit and the  International
Monetary Fund  agreed to extend its support.  
 S&P’s placed Ukraine’s B foreign currency and B+ local
currency sovereign credit ratings on CreditWatch with positive
implications, it said in a statement today. S&P may raise the
foreign currency rating one step to B+, four levels below
investment grade, according to the statement. That would put
Ukraine on a par with Georgia, Senegal and Ghana.  
 The CreditWatch move “reflects our view of the increasing
fiscal consolidation efforts by the Ukrainian government, and
implementation of measures upon which International Monetary
Fund support is preconditioned, amid improved prospects for
economic growth,” the S&P statement said.  
 Ukraine agreed to a $14.9 billion loan with the IMF on July
3, after the lender approved economic policies aimed at
narrowing the deficit. Its Executive Board will make a final
decision by on July 28 following “approval of legislative
changes relating to the budget and financial sector,” the IMF
said then.  
 “We expect to resolve the CreditWatch placement within the
next few months, after the IMF has made its final decision on
the Stand-By Arrangement and consolidation measures are
implemented,” S&P said. “Conversely, if the IMF fails to sign
the program, or the measures are delayed, we may revise the
outlook back to stable.  
 Ukraine’s 6.58 percent government bonds maturing in 2016
rose to 99.96 cents on the dollar, the highest since April, as
of 4:38 p.m. in Kiev, compared with 98.64 cents yesterday,
Bloomberg data show. The yield fell to 6.585 percent from 6.846
percent yesterday.  
 Fitch Ratings raised Ukraine’s credit grade by one step to
B on July 6.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tasneem Brogger  in London at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
 Daryna Krasnolutska  in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        