-- SanDisk CEO to Retire; Earnings Fall Short of Apple-Inflated Expectations
-- Ian King
-- 2010-07-22T21:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/sandisk-ceo-to-retire-earnings-fall-short-of-apple-inflated-expectations.html

          
          
             SanDisk Corp.  said Chief Executive
Officer  Eli Harari  will retire and reported earnings that
disappointed investors after one of its biggest customers, Apple
Inc., posted surging sales. The shares fell 7.5 percent.  
 The company posted second-quarter sales of $1.18 billion
and profit of $1.08 a share, excluding some costs. While those
numbers topped average  estimates , investors were looking for
more growth after Apple’s performance, said  Daniel Berenbaum , an
analyst at Auriga Securities in New York.  
 SanDisk, the biggest maker of flash-memory cards, supplies
components to Apple, whose quarterly results beat sales and
profit projections this week.  Apple  sold 3.27 million iPads and
8.4 million iPhones -- all of which use flash memory. That
allowed the company to post sales of $15.7 billion, a billion
dollars more than analysts had anticipated.  
 “When Apple is great and SanDisk is only in line, it’s not
good enough,” said Berenbaum, who recommends selling SanDisk’s
stock. “People were probably expecting a clear beat.”  
 SanDisk fell $3.25 to $39.85 in late  trading  after the
report. The shares have climbed 49 percent this year on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  
 Harari, 65, will retire on Dec. 31, when President  Sanjay Mehrotra  will take the job, Milpitas, California-based SanDisk
said today in a statement. Harari will stay on as an adviser for
two years.  Michael Marks , a board member since 2003, will assume
the role of chairman from Harari on Jan. 1.  
 Price Swings  
 After co-founding SanDisk 22 years ago, Harari pioneered
the industry for flash-memory cards, now used by cameras, phones
and other devices to store data. The company has struggled to
post consistent profits, hampered by fluctuations in flash
prices and a competitive market for memory. SanDisk warded off a
hostile bid from Samsung Electronics Co. in 2008.  
 “Our business and technology leadership have never been
stronger and I’m confident the company will scale new heights
under Sanjay’s leadership,” Harari said in the statement.  
 Second-quarter  net income  climbed almost fivefold to $257.9
million, or $1.08 a share, from $52.5 million, or 23 cents, a
year earlier. Sales advanced 61 percent.  
 SanDisk predicted sales of between $1.175 billion and $1.25
billion for the current period. That compares with an average
estimate of $1.245 billion. The company also raised its full-
year sales projection to between $4.7 billion and $4.9 billion.  
 “Demand indications from our customers are strong for the
second half of the year,” said Chief Financial Officer  Judy Bruner  on a conference call. She said that the company won’t
have enough supply to fill all of its orders.  
 Mehrotra, who co-founded the company with Harari, has been
president since 2006 and chief operating officer since 2001. The
52-year-old also has worked at  Intel Corp.  and  Atmel Corp.   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ian King  in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        