-- Saudi-Backed Ersal Project to Become Palestinian Financial Hub, Abbas Says
-- Jonathan Ferziger
-- 2010-07-22T13:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/saudi-backed-ersal-project-to-become-palestinian-financial-hub-abbas-says.html

          
          
             Palestinian Authority President
 Mahmoud Abbas  said a $400 million Saudi-backed construction
project can help transform the West Bank’s sister cities of
Ramallah and El-Bireh into a regional financial hub.  
 “We want this to look like New York and Dubai,” Abbas
said today as he attended a ceremony to mark the start of the
 Ersal Center , a 13-tower joint venture between the authority’s
Palestine Investment Fund and the Riyadh-based Land Real Estate
Investment and Development Co. “This is a new vision for
Palestine.”  
 The project, which breaks ground next week on an El-Bireh
hilltop overlooking Ramallah’s old city center, will contain the
new corporate headquarters for Bank of Palestine, Chairman
 Hashim Shawa  said. Negotiations are under way for Wataniya
Palestine Mobile Telecommunications Co. to occupy a second
tower, said Mohammed Mustafa, the Palestinian fund’s chairman
and chief executive officer. The joint venture is named Arduna.  
 Abbas and Palestinian Authority Prime Minister  Salaam Fayyad  are trying to stimulate international investment with a
series of construction projects that include commercial and
residential buildings across the West Bank. The Palestinian
Authority has been conducting U.S.-mediated indirect talks with
Israel aimed at reaching a Middle East peace agreement.  
 “We have the choice to sit back and wait for better times
or we can take the fate in our own hands and be more pro-active
in developing our economy in a meaningful and strategic
manner,” Mustafa said in an interview after the dedication
ceremony.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Ferziger  in El-Bireh through the Jerusalem newsroom at
   jferziger@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        