-- SEC Inspector General Expands Probe to Include Goldman Sachs Settlement
-- Jesse Westbrook
-- 2010-07-22T21:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/sec-inspector-general-expands-probe-to-include-goldman-sachs-settlement.html

          
          
             The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s internal watchdog said he will expand his probe
into whether politics drove an agency lawsuit against Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. to include the timing behind a $550 million
settlement with the company.  
 SEC Inspector General  H. David Kotz  agreed in April to a
request from U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, that he probe whether politics prompted the lawsuit
against Goldman Sachs. Today, in response to another request
from Issa, Kotz said in a letter to the congressman that he will
broaden the probe to review the agency’s July 15 accord with the
New York-based bank.  
 Issa requested that Kotz examine whether there was any
political reason that the SEC’s announcement of the settlement
came two hours after the Senate approved legislation overhauling
financial regulation.  
 “The commission must seek to avoid even the appearance of
applying political considerations or self-serving
grandstanding,” Issa wrote in a letter today to the SEC
inspector general. “That is why the timing of the commission’s
initial suit against Goldman, the settlement of that suit and
the public announcements of both actions have been a cause of
concern.”  
 The SEC sued  Goldman Sachs  three months ago, accusing the
firm of selling a mortgage security without disclosing that
hedge fund Paulson & Co. helped design the asset and was betting
it would fail. In the settlement announced last week, New York-
based Goldman Sachs agreed to pay a $300 million fine and $250
million as restitution to investors who lost money on the deal.  
 SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has said there were no political
motivations in the case against Goldman Sachs and said the White
House and Congress have no influence on enforcement actions.
Both the April lawsuit and last week’s settlement were approved
in 3-2 votes by SEC commissioners, with Schapiro siding with the
agency’s two Democrats.  
 SEC spokesman  John Heine  declined to comment on Kotz’s
decision to expand the investigation.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        