-- SEC Grants Six-Month Delay on Ratings for Asset-Backed Debt in Statements
-- Jody Shenn
-- 2010-07-22T22:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/sec-grants-six-month-delay-on-ratings-for-asset-backed-debt-in-statements.html

          
          
             The Securities and Exchange
Commission will allow asset-backed bond issuers to omit credit
ratings from filings for six months to help them comply with new
rules that are part of the most sweeping financial overhaul
since the 1930s.  
 Borrowers aren’t able to obtain permission from ratings
firms to include their rankings in their registration
statements,  Meredith Cross , the director of the SEC’s division
of corporate finance, said today in an e-mailed statement
announcing the change.  
 “This action will provide issuers, rating agencies and
other market participants with a transition period in order to
implement changes to comply” with regulations that were signed
into law this week by President  Barack Obama , Cross said.  
 The financial legislation makes credit-rating companies
vulnerable to lawsuits when underwriters include their
assessments in documents used to sell debt. The law subjects
ratings firms, such as Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, to so-called expert liability, meaning
they would face the same legal risks as accountants and other
parties that participate in bond sales.  
 Sales were held up as the ratings firms balked at allowing
issuers to include their rankings in public documents, said
 Malcolm Dorris , a senior partner in the securitization group at
law firm Dechert LLP. Companies were considering alternatives to
the public markets, such as selling in the 144a market, where
sales aren’t registered with the SEC, Dorris said.  
 Counterproductive Shift  
 Ford Motor Co.’s finance arm canceled a planned sale of
asset-backed debt, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday on
its website, citing market participants it didn’t name.  
 Brenda Hines , a spokeswoman for Ford Motor Credit, declined
to comment.  
 The financial overhaul, capping a year-long legislative
struggle, was spurred by the 2008 financial crisis that
triggered the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
dragging down Wall Street and the U.S. economy. Obama vowed the
law will bring an end to taxpayer bailouts of financial firms
and said adjustments to the regulations may have to be made
along the way.  
 Driving issuance toward the private market would be
counterproductive because regulators would lose jurisdiction
over the offerings, said  Richard D’Albert , co-chief investment
officer at Seer Capital Management LLC, a New York-based hedge
fund specializing in asset-backed securities.  
 ‘Pleading’ Standards  
 “Whether we’ll go with private transactions or 144a
transactions is something we’ll have to consider and look at and
weigh our options in terms of liquidity and pricing,”  Justin Leach , a spokesman for Toyota Financial Services, said before
the SEC’s announcement.  
 Toyota sold $1.75 billion of asset-backed bonds tied to
auto loans in a public transaction on July 14, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Spokespeople for the ratings companies didn’t immediately
return messages to respond to the SEC announcement.  
 “I don’t think this is a permanent solution because on
some level it skirts the intent of Congress to make the rating
agencies more accountable,” D’Albert said.  
 An additional section of the law, unrelated to the use of
credit grades in offering documents, is set to also increase the
dangers for ratings firms by changing the “pleading” standards
for securities fraud lawsuits, Moody’s said in a July 15
statement. It says they must conduct “a reasonable
investigation” of facts about deals or have one done by an
independent source, to avoid potential legal risk.  
 “Moody’s is exploring various ways of addressing this
revised pleading standard,” which applies to all securities
types, the company said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sarah Mulholland  in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        