-- Shipper CMA CGM Said to Face July 26 Court Deadline to Find New Investors
-- Laurence Frost
-- 2010-07-22T16:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/shipper-cma-cgm-said-to-face-july-26-court-deadline-to-find-new-investors.html

          
          
             CMA CGM SA, the French shipper
reorganizing 5.4 billion euros ($7 billion) of debt, is seeking
to put together a new investor group by a July 26 court
deadline, said people with direct knowledge of the matter.  
 Butler Capital Partners LLC, a Paris-based private-equity
firm, is one of the remaining potential bidders after talks with
Qatar Holding LLC and Colony Capital LLC failed, said three
people, who declined to be identified because the discussions
are confidential. Butler, which would provide about 70 million
euros, is talking to parties including CMA CGM agents and
France’s FSI sovereign-wealth fund to raise $500 million, one of
the people said.  
 CMA CGM, which began talks with creditors in September,
needs the reorganization to avoid insolvency after breaching
covenants on most of its debt. The company, the world’s third-
largest container shipper, replaced Chief Executive Officer
 Jacques Saade  in December with  Philippe Soulie , while Saade
remains chairman.  
 “They’re under some pressure now,”  Axel Funhoff , an analyst
at Brussels-based ING Group, said in an interview. “Even if the
cash-flow situation has eased with the recovery, they need to
raise more equity to reassure debt holders.”  
 It remains unclear whether CMA CGM will be able to reach an
agreement with investors before a hearing next week at the Paris
court overseeing the reorganization, the people said. CMA CGM
could also seek to extend the deadline.  
 Private Investors  
 CMA CGM spokeswoman Marianne Benoit and FSI’s Benjamin
Perret declined to comment, as did a Butler spokesman.  
 Under France’s court-sponsored conciliation procedure, a
company’s failure to meet the deadline for an agreement with
creditors makes it harder to raise new funds and leaves it
vulnerable to insolvency if broken covenants are invoked.  
 Marie-Christine Berneron, a spokeswoman for the Paris
commercial court, didn’t return calls seeking comment.  
 Under an earlier proposal, FSI would contribute a third of
the capital if CMA CGM is able to get the remainder from private
investors, the people said.  
 A recovery in global trade helped CMA CGM report an
operating profit for the first quarter. The company had a net
loss of $1.43 billion in 2009.  
 Talks with Qatar Holding were at an advanced stage before
they broke down this month over conditions imposed by the Qatari
fund that could have enabled it to eventually take control of
the company, the people said.  
 Colony, which has withdrawn its bid, said yesterday that it
could still be ready to invest alongside the Qatari fund.  
 “We have always been and we remain 100 percent aligned
with Qatar on this transaction,” Owen Blicksilver, a U.S.-based
spokesman for Colony, said by telephone late yesterday.  
 Stephen Benzikie , a London-based spokesman for Qatar
Holding, had no immediate comment.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        