-- Sinopec Shuts Oil Wells in Southern China on Floods, Says Impact `Limited'
-- Bloomberg News
-- 2010-07-22T09:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/sinopec-shuts-oil-wells-in-southern-china-on-floods-says-impact-limited-.html

          
          
             China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. ,
the nation’s second-largest oil producer, said it shut some oil
wells in southern China because of flooding.  
 The impact on the company’s oilfields is “limited” so far,
 Huang Wensheng , spokesman of the company known as Sinopec, said
by telephone today, declining to specify the number of wells
that were closed.  
 Increased rainfall since July 1 has affected about 38
million people and forced the relocation of 1.3 million in 11
Chinese provinces, the Ministry of Civil Affairs said July 16.
Sinopec’s parent China Petrochemical Corp. said yesterday that
more than 100 of its unit’s oil wells in Jiangsu province have
been inundated by floodwaters in central China.  
 Shengli field in Shandong province, the company’s largest,
is largely unaffected, Huang said. The company has taken
precautionary measures to cope with the bad weather, he said,
without elaborating.  
 PetroChina Co.  hasn’t seen any “noticeable” impact from
floods and typhoons on its oilfields and refineries,  Mao Zefeng ,
spokesman of the nation’s largest oil producer, said by
telephone. The company’s fields and refineries are operating
normally, according to Mao.  
 Typhoon Chanthu  made landfall  today near Zhanjiang city in
the southeastern province of Guangdong, after sweeping across
the South China Sea in a northwesterly direction, according to a
map posted on the website of the Hong Kong Observatory at 2 p.m.
local time.  
 Jiang Yongzhi , a spokesman for  Cnooc Ltd. , which has
exploration and production operations in the South China Sea,
declined to comment on whether any of the company’s facilities
have been affected by the typhoon.  
 “Typhoons are a common phenomenon that we have to deal
with,” he said. “We have a comprehensive system to deal with
the impact of typhoons.”  
 Cnooc rose 0.2 percent to close at HK$12.86 in Hong Kong
trading today compared with the 0.5 percent gain in the
benchmark Hang Seng index. PetroChina climbed 0.8 percent and
Sinopec increased 0.3 percent.  
 -- Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai and  Chua Baizhen  in Beijing. Editors:
 Jane Lee ,  Ryan Woo .  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Winnie Zhu  in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        