-- Smuggled IPads Set to Flood China as Sales Start in Hong Kong
-- Mark Lee
-- 2010-07-23T01:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/smuggled-ipads-set-to-flood-into-china-as-apple-starts-sales-in-hong-kong.html

          
          
             For Wang Pingdao, each day  Apple Inc. 
waits to introduce its latest gadgets in China means extra
profit from selling imported iPhones and iPads in Beijing.  
 “The iPad is selling pretty well now,” said Wang, a
salesman at the Xing Kongjian Digital Market store in Beijing,
who has been getting the devices from the U.S.  
 Wang’s business may be about to boom. As Apple begins
selling the iPad in Hong Kong today and the iPhone 4 next week,
the former British colony will be an important source of
supplies of Apple products feeding the so-called gray market in
China, said Flora Wu, a handset analyst at  BDA China Ltd.   
 Dealers such as Wang account for almost half of the iPhones
sold in China, according to BDA, underscoring how the world’s
most valuable technology company has lagged behind  Nokia Oyj  and
 Lenovo Group Ltd.  in marketing its products in the world’s third-
largest economy. Wang plans to sell the low-end version of the
iPad for 4,300 yuan ($634) each after buying them in Hong Kong
for HK$3,888 ($500).  
 “It’s something they need to address at some point and now
is probably the time,” said  Bertram Lai , head of research at
CIMB-GK Securities in Hong Kong. “They need to get it sorted
out.”  
 Gray market iPhone sales in China exceeded 400,000 during
the first half of the year, compared with the 500,000 sold by
 China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. , the only carrier authorized to
offer the device in the country, BDA’s Wu said. Chinese dealers
also buy from the U.S. and Europe, she said.  
 Difficult to Track  
 Apple, which is expanding iPad sales to Hong Kong,
Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands,
New Zealand and Singapore today, hasn’t set a date for the debut
of the tablet computer or the iPhone 4 in China, spokeswoman
 Jill Tan  said. Gray market sales of Apple products in China are
difficult to track, she said.  
 Hong Kong operates as a semi-autonomous region of China,
with its own laws and government, under the “one country, two
systems” formula agreed when the U.K. returned the city to
Chinese rule in 1997.  
 Globally, Apple may ship 12.9 million iPads this year,
according to estimates by ISuppli Corp. this week. The research
firm raised its projections by more than 80 percent after the
product sold out in U.S. stores.  
 Gray market demand may be pushing up sales in Hong Kong.
IPhone shipments jumped almost 10-fold during the first three
months of the year, according to IDC. Kathy Sin, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at the research firm, said she “can’t rule out”
sales were boosted by demand from China.  
 Slow in China  
 “Apple isn’t focusing very heavily on China and the
company is still building its sales channels and partnerships,
so it’s been slow to launch the latest products,” said  Sandy Shen , an analyst at Gartner Inc. in Shanghai.  
 By comparison, Nokia’s retail network in China comprises
more than 100,000 stores, while Lenovo has more than 10,000 in
the country, according to spokespeople at the companies.  
 Delays boost the fortunes of vendors such as Zhang
Changlong, who sells some iPhones at Zongda Electron Catena in
Dinghao Electronic Mall in Beijing for as much as 13,000 yuan.  
 IPhones from Hong Kong stores are more popular in China
than those originating from the U.S. because the ones from the
neighboring city are unlocked and able to use any phone
carrier’s service, said Pan Yayun, a salesman at the
Chuangyeweilong Store in Beijing. Hong Kong models, which can
fetch an extra 1,000 yuan each, are also easier to update and
more user-friendly for mainland consumers, he said.  
 Second Store  
 Apple this month opened its second store in China to expand
its retail network. The outlet in Shanghai will be followed by
“many” more for the country, the company said on July 8. The
first store opened in Beijing in July 2008.  
 Gray market sales don’t necessarily dry up when Apple
enters China because the unauthorized versions can still be
cheaper, Gartner’s Shen said. For instance, China Unicom offers
the iPhone 3GS for 6,999 yuan each, or about 28 percent more
than those sold in Hong Kong, and triple the price of the ones
available through a contract with AT&T Inc. in the U.S.  
 The price difference between iPhones in China and Hong Kong
is partly due to import duties, Unicom President  Lu Yimin  said
in March.  
 Smugglers dodging taxes of 50,000 yuan or more do so at the
risk of being charged with a criminal offence and up to life
imprisonment if the amounts exceed 500,000 yuan, said  He Fang , a
Shanghai-based lawyer at Rouse & Co. International.  
 Authorities haven’t seriously tackled the smuggling of
Apple’s products into China because volumes are still small,
Gartner’s Shen said. Apple’s Tan declined to say if the company
is taking any action to prevent such activities.  
 “Since the iPhone 4 first appeared a month ago, I have sold
more than 20 locked models and 30 unlocked ones,” said Jianwei
Yang, who sells iPhones at booth 2008C in Hailong Electric Mall
in Beijing. “Over 90 percent of buyers are from government
authorities or companies that buy them in groups.”  
 -- Penny Peng ,  Miao Han ,  Debra Mao . Editor:  Young-Sam Cho , Anand Krishnamoorthy ,  Jonathan Annells   
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Shoppers check out the Apple ipad at a computer mall in Hong Kong. Photographer: Mike Clarke/AFP/Getty Images  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co., discusses Apple Inc.’s third-quarter profit and the outlook for the company's performance. 
     Apple's net income rose 78 percent to $3.25 billion, or $3.51 a share. Munster talks with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.” (Source: Bloomberg) 
  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
