-- SNB May Resume Intervention Should Euro-Franc Weaken `Sharply,' UBS Says
-- Lisa Pham
-- 2010-07-22T08:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/snb-may-resume-intervention-should-euro-franc-weaken-sharply-ubs-says.html

          
          
             Switzerland’s central bank may
intervene in foreign-exchange markets to lower the value of its
currency should the euro weaken “sharply” against the franc,
according to UBS AG.  
 With the economy gathering strength, the Swiss National
Bank last month phased out a 15-month intervention policy. The
Swiss franc reached a record high versus Europe’s common
currency this month as investors sought a refuge from the euro
zone’s debt crisis.  
 “The SNB has refrained from intervention recently as its
focus has shifted from deflation to inflation risks,” Mansoor
Mohi-uddin, the Singapore-based head of foreign-exchange
strategy at UBS, the world’s second-largest currency trader,
wrote in a note to clients today. “Concerns over the euro zone
are likely to increase foreign investor demand for the franc
again this year."  
 The currency has strengthened 11 percent this year and
increased to a record 1.3074 per euro on July 1. It was at
1.3387 per euro as of 8:28 a.m. in London. The SNB will
intervene again if the euro falls to a range of between 1.25
francs and 1.30 francs, Mohi-uddin said.  
 The Swiss central bank, led by Philipp Hildebrand, started
selling the franc in March 2009 to ward off deflation and revive
the economy amid the worst global financial crisis since World
War II. The franc has gained about 3 percent against the euro
since June 17, when the SNB ended its intervention policy.  
 Exchange Losses  
 Currency holdings make the bank vulnerable to foreign-
exchange moves. It lost more than 14 billion Swiss francs ($13.4
billion) on foreign-currency holdings in the first half after a
plunging euro eroded the value of the bank’s reserves.  
 The SNB had a second-quarter loss of 5.5 billion francs
after a profit of 1.5 billion francs in the first quarter,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on the SNB’s estimate
of a 4-billion franc first-half loss. The bank will release
final results on Aug. 13.  
 ‘‘Though the SNB has incurred losses from its interventions
in the first half of 2010, it may still return to the market if
euro-Swiss franc falls sharply,” Mohi-uddin wrote.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lisa Pham  in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        