-- Lance, Snyder's of Hanover Merge to Bolster Distribution of Salty Snacks
-- Burt Helm
-- 2010-07-22T23:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/snyder-s-of-hanover-lance-will-combine-to-improve-distribution-of-snacks.html

          
          
             Lance Inc. , the maker of Cape Cod
potato chips and Stella D’oro cookies, agreed to merge with
pretzel maker Snyder’s of Hanover Inc. to improve distribution
of the companies’ snacks.  
 Lance  investors  will receive a one-time dividend of $3.75 a
share, the companies said in a statement today. Snyder’s and
Lance will each own about 50 percent of the new company, to be
called Snyder’s-Lance Inc. The deal will close later this year
pending shareholder and regulatory approval, the companies said.  
 Both companies have pursued acquisitions in the past year
to win more bargaining power with national retailers like Kroger
Co. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. The new company will compete
against PepsiCo Inc.’s Frito-Lay in the salty snacks business.  
 “When Lance starts layering in the pretzel business it
gains more clout, more credibility, more shelf space with the
retailer,” said  Scott Mushkin , an  analyst  at Jefferies & Co. in
New York. The merger would also give Lance national distribution
for its Cape Cod chips, he said.  
 Lance jumped $5.30, or 33 percent, to $21.30 today in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Through yesterday, the stock had
fallen 39 percent this year.  
 First Sandwich Cracker  
 The company, founded in 1913 by Phillip L. Lance and his
family, sold the first packaged peanut butter sandwich cracker.
Today it sells  crackers , cookies, and chips under the Cape Cod,
Archway, Tom’s, and Lance brand names. Snyder’s first began
selling pretzels in 1909 as part of the Hanover Canning Company,
its parent company until 1980. Snyder’s remained closely held.  
 Last year, Utz Quality Foods Inc. backed out of a proposed
sale to Snyder’s, saying a request for additional information
from the Federal Trade Commission would strain the company. The
FTC asked for further details after two filings on the proposed
merger failed to gain its approval, the two Hanover,
Pennsylvania-based companies said at the time.  
 Lance, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, had  sales  of
$918.2 million in 2009. Last October, the company bought cookie
and breadstick maker Stella D’oro Biscuit Co. from private-
equity firm Brynwood Partners LP for an undisclosed cash sum.  
 Lance Chief Executive Officer  David Singer  said on a
conference call in February that the snack-food maker plans to
pursue an “aggressive” acquisition strategy in 2010. Lance was
among the bidders for premium potato-chip maker Kettle Foods,
which was bought by Diamond Foods Inc. in March.  
 Singer will become  CEO  of the newly formed company, and
Snyder’s current chief executive,  Carl Lee Jr ., will become
chief operating officer.  
 Wells Fargo Securities advised the two companies on the
deal. Bank of America Merrill Lynch provided a fairness opinion
to Lance’s board.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Burt Helm  in New York at 
 bhelm3@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        