-- South African Nobelist, Anti-Apartheid Activist Desmond Tutu Will Retire
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-22T12:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/south-african-nobelist-anti-apartheid-activist-desmond-tutu-will-retire.html

          
          
             Archbishop  Desmond Tutu , who won the
1984 Nobel Peace Prize for his opposition to apartheid rule in
South Africa, said he will withdraw from public life after his
79th birthday on Oct. 7.  
 “The time has now come to slow down,” Tutu said in a
statement distributed from Cape Town today. “Existing diary
appointments will be honored, but no new appointments will be
added to my schedule.”  
 As South Africa’s first black Anglican bishop, Tutu used
his international profile to advocate sanctions against the all-
white government, which relinquished power after elections in
1994. He retired as archbishop of Cape Town in 1996 to lead the
Truth and Reconciliation Commission, a body that aimed to expose
the injustices of the past.  
 In 1997, Tutu learned he had prostate cancer, and underwent
surgery.  
 When the Truth Commission completed its work in 1998, Tutu
took up a lectureship at Emory University in Atlanta, returning
to South Africa in 2001, ostensibly to retire. Yet he continued
to campaign for social justice and participated in a number of
forums and organizations, including the United Nations Advisory
Committee on the Prevention of Genocide.  
 He also joined South Africa’s campaign to host the soccer
World Cup, appearing at a celebratory concert in Johanensburg on
June 10 to welcome fans.  
 “My mission determined that I continue to work, and my
schedule has grown increasingly punishing over the years,” Tutu
said. “Instead of growing old gracefully, at home with my
family, reading and writing and praying and thinking, too much
of my time has been spent at airports and in hotels.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        