-- South Korea Won Erases Losses After Record Hynix Earnings Boost Sentiment
-- Frances Yoon
-- 2010-07-22T08:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/south-korea-won-erases-losses-after-record-hynix-earnings-boost-sentiment.html

          
          
             South Korea’s won erased a loss of
as much as 0.4 percent after  Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  said
profit and sales were record and overseas investors snapped up
the nation’s shares for a second day.  
 The numbers from the world’s second-largest computer-memory
chipmaker may help support demand for the won ahead of a central
bank report next week that analysts say may show economic growth
slowed in the second quarter. The currency fell earlier after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economic
outlook in the U.S. remains “unusually uncertain.”  
 “Hynix’s earnings results boosted the outlook for the
country’s earnings season this quarter,” said  Sung Jae Man , a
currency analyst at Tong Yang Securities Co Ltd. in Seoul.
“That’s helped foreigners buy shares, even though Bernanke’s
comments spurred risk-off sentiment this morning.”  
 The won traded at 1,204.00 per dollar as of the 3 p.m.
close in Seoul, little changed from 1,204.50 yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has
dropped 6.5 percent in the past three months, Asia’s worst
performance.  
 Hynix’s second-quarter operating profit was 1.05 trillion
($870 million), compared with a loss of 211 billion won a year
earlier, the company said in a statement today. Revenue jumped
96 percent to 3.28 trillion won.  
 The Kospi share  Index  still closed 0.8 percent lower after
Bernanke’s comments fueled concern demand for the nation’s
exports will slow should the global recovery falter.  
 ‘High Dependence’  
 The won is vulnerable to risk aversion as seen by its 7.3
percent decline since the start of May, driven by the debt
crisis in Europe, according to a research report from Credit
Agricole published yesterday. That highlights the currency’s
“high dependence” on sentiment in world markets, while
strength in the won largely revolves around the  current-account 
surplus, the note said.  
 “Investors’ views on the Korean exports outlook and
funding ability can be gauged by flows of portfolio capital to
and from the country’s equity markets,” wrote  Mitul Kotecha ,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy, one of the authors of
the report. “The won has been highly correlated to these
flows.”  
 The currency will drop to 1,265 per dollar this quarter,
according to the report. That would be the lowest level for the
won since June 10.  
 Economy Slows  
 Data today may show U.S. initial  jobless claims  rose last
week and existing  home sales  fell to the lowest level since
February, according to separate Bloomberg surveys.  
 “A tremendous amount of uncertainty remains in the
market,” said  Brad Bechtel , a Connecticut-based currency trader
at Faros Trading LLC. “Bernanke’s lack of an answer to the
recent turndown in U.S. macro data has added fuel to that
fire.”  
 South Korea’s economy grew 1.3 percent between April and
June after having expanded 2.1 percent in the first quarter,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The data are due to be released on July 26.  
 Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun last month boosted this
year’s growth forecast to 5.8 percent from a December projection
of 5 percent and said the nation needs to “normalize” fiscal
and monetary policies.  
 The Bank of Korea last week raised its benchmark interest
rate to 2.25 percent, from a record-low 2 percent, and revised
its 2010 inflation forecast to 2.8 percent from 2.6 percent.  
 Bonds Rise  
 South Korean government bonds rose for a sixth day. The
yield on the 3.75 percent note due in June 2013 slipped four
basis points to 3.83 percent. The rate reached a four-month high
of 3.99 percent last week. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  
 “I’m surprised that foreigners keep buying bonds even
after the central bank raised rates,” said  Min Dong Won , a
fixed-income analyst at Meritz Securities Co. Ltd. “But Korea
has strong economic fundamentals and its bonds are emerging as a
substitute for European bonds.”  
 Min expects three-year note yields to fall to 3.6 percent
before the next monetary policy meeting on Aug. 12. Europe’s
debt crisis will prompt more foreign investors to buy Korean
bonds because of the country’s stable economic fundamentals, he
added.  
 South Korea sold 259 billion won of inflation-linked bonds
maturing in 2020 today, the Ministry of Strategy and Finance
said. The government priced the notes on July 19 to yield 2.36
percent, 2.55 percentage points less than the rate paid on 1.7
trillion won of conventional 10-year debt sold the same day, and
invited investors to bid for their preferred amounts.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Frances Yoon  in Seoul at 
 fyoon2@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        