-- South Africa Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged at 6.5%
-- Franz Wild
-- 2010-07-22T15:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/south-africa-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-6-5-.html

          
          
             South Africa’s Reserve Bank kept its
benchmark interest  rate  unchanged for a second meeting as
consumer spending recovered from last year’s recession and wage
costs surged.  
 The repurchase rate was left at 6.5 percent, Governor  Gill Marcus  said in Pretoria today. That was in line with the
forecast of 18 of 26 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  
 Seven interest rate cuts since December 2008 and inflation
at its slowest pace in four years have helped to spur consumer
spending and growth in Africa’s biggest  economy . Marcus resisted
calls from labor unions and exporters to cut interest rates
again today as the World Cup, which ended on July 11, fueled
wage demands and pushed up prices of hotel rooms, flights and
restaurant bills.  
 “Given how the risks stacked up, this was the right
decision,” said  Johan Rossouw , an economist at Vunani
Securities in Cape Town. “There are significant labor cost
pressures out there and we’re seeing a recovery in consumer
spending. Inflation will bottom soon and it will be increasingly
difficult to cut interest rates further.”  
 Retail sales  gained for a fifth consecutive month in May,
increasing 4.6 percent from a year ago, the statistics office
said on July 14. The economy expanded an annualized 4.6 percent
in the first quarter as manufacturing and mining exports
rebounded.  
 ‘Bitterly Disappointed’  
 The Congress of South African Trade Unions, the country’s
biggest labor federation, said it is “bitterly disappointed”
at Marcus’s decision. “The MPC has missed yet another
opportunity to save and create jobs by giving a boost to
investment and growth,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  
 Money market futures rose from a record low today as
investors reduced bets the central bank will cut rates in
September. Forward-rate agreements showed that contracts for
three-month cash due in three months rose 8 basis points to 6.28
percent as of 4:58 p.m. in Johannesburg.  
 “The door for an interest rate cut is not entirely shut,”
said  Danelee van Dyk , an economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
Africa’s biggest lender. “There needs to be downside surprises
in growth and inflation, or significant rand strength, to tip
the scales in favor of a rate cut.”  
 Growth Outlook  
 The  growth  outlook weakened in the second quarter, while
inflation is expected to moderate, Marcus said. The statistics
office will publish last quarter’s growth data in August.  
 “Indications are that second quarter growth was likely to
have been less favorable and the negative output gap is expected
to persist for some time,” Marcus said. “The committee is
aware of the fragilities and vulnerabilities to the domestic
economy, driven in part by global uncertainties.”  
 The bank expects the economy to expand 2.9 percent this
year, compared with a 1.8 percent contraction in 2009.  
 Inflation , which reached 4.6 percent in May, will stay
inside the 3 percent to 6 percent target until the end of 2012,
Marcus said. The inflation rate will probably average 4.5
percent in the third quarter and “increase moderately
thereafter,” with the bank’s inflation forecast remaining
unchanged from the previous meeting, she said.  
 “The outlook remains favorable, with inflation expected to
remain within the inflation target range for some time, against
a backdrop of a benign global inflation environment,” Marcus
said.  
 Wage Costs  
 Rising wage and administered prices, such as electricity
prices, are the “main upside risks to the inflation outlook,”
Marcus said. Transnet Ltd., the state-owned rail and ports
company, agreed to increase workers’ pay by 11 percent in May to
end an 18-day wage strike that curbed exports. Teachers, nurses
and other government workers may go on strike next week to
demand a pay increase of 8.6 percent, a labor union said
yesterday.  
 “By September we believe the Reserve Bank will be
surprised to the upside by both growth and inflation as the
recovery takes hold further and so we see no opportunity for a
cut at that time,”  Peter Attard Montalto , an economist at
Nomura Plc in London, said in a note to clients.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        