-- S. Korea Growth Likely 'Outperformed,' Adding Pressure on Rates
-- Michael Munoz
-- 2010-07-23T05:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/south-korea-economy-probably-outperformed-adding-to-pressure-on-rates.html

          
          
             South Korea’s economy probably grew
for a sixth straight quarter in the three months to June, adding
to evidence that Asia’s fourth-largest economy is withstanding
risks to the global recovery.  
 Gross domestic product grew 1.3 percent in the second
quarter from the prior three months, when it gained 2.1 percent,
according to the median of seven estimates in a Bloomberg News
 survey . The release is due at 8 a.m. on July 26 in Seoul.  
 The expansion came as Korean companies from  Samsung
Electronics Co.  to  Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  reported record
earnings, and as a drop in the won enhanced the nation’s export
competitiveness. While Europe’s debt crisis and elevated U.S.
unemployment cloud prospects for overseas demand, rising
inflationary pressures will prompt the Bank of Korea to keep
raising interest rates, according to economist  Chang Jae Chul .  
 “The economy outperformed in the first half, and the key
is whether it can keep its growth momentum to support more rate
rises,” said  Chang Jae Chul , an economist at Citigroup Global
Markets Korea Securities Ltd. in Seoul. Chang said the central
bank is set to increase its benchmark rate by half a percentage
point by December, beginning with a 25 basis-point move late in
the third quarter.  
 The Bank of Korea on July 9 joined Asian nations from
Thailand to Taiwan, Malaysia, and India in raising interest
rates to curb price pressures. The bank later raised its 2010
growth and inflation forecasts on export gains and local demand.  
 Reduced Slack  
 South Korea’s $929 billion economy grew more than 1 percent
in the second quarter from the previous period, approaching
“its potential output level,” Central Bank Governor  Kim Choong Soo  said this month. He spoke after the bank raised the
benchmark rate to 2.25 percent from a record-low 2 percent, the
first increase since the financial crisis.  
 The country’s economy will grow 5.9 percent in 2010, more
than the 5.2 percent predicted in April, the Bank of Korea said
on July 12.  The Finance Ministry  said on June 24 that the nation
needs to normalize fiscal and monetary policies.  
 The central bank forecast this month that  consumer prices 
will rise by 2.8 percent this year, compared with the previous
estimate of 2.6 percent, and 3.4 percent in 2011. The bank is
targeting inflation of between 2 percent and 4 percent on
average through 2012.  
 The won fell 0.6 percent to 1,196.85 per dollar as of 12:52
p.m. in Seoul today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency has dropped 7.3% in the past three months, Asia’s
worst performance. The benchmark  Kospi  stock index advanced 1.1
percent to 1,755.30.  
 Annual Rate  
 From a year earlier, South Korean GDP rose 6.9 percent in
the second quarter, slowing from an 8.1 percent jump in the
first quarter that was the biggest gain since 2002, according to
the median estimate of 11 economists.  
 Sales  at South Korea’s major department stores increased in
June for a 16th month. Overseas shipments, which make up about
half of the nation’s GDP, jumped 32.4 percent in June from a
year earlier, an eighth straight monthly increase.  
 Samsung, Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones, this month reported record earnings
for the second quarter, as a recovery in demand for computer-
memory chips drove up prices.  
 Hynix, the world’s second-largest computer-memory chipmaker,
reported record operating profit for the same quarter as sales
beat analysts’ estimates, buoyed by demand for personal
computers.  
 Election Loss  
 The administration of South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ,
who suffered an unexpected reversal at local elections on June 2,
had pressed the central bank ahead of the polls to hold down
rates in a bid to support growth.  
 Asian policy makers continue to grapple with the
implications of Europe’s debt crisis, subdued U.S. growth and a
slowdown in the Chinese economy as they mull further rate
increases.  
 Finance Minister  Yoon Jeung Hyun  said July 13 that the U.S.
and China may see a temporary slowdown as government stimulus is
withdrawn and growth relies more on the private sector.  
 “South Korea’s second-half growth depends on how much a
global slowdown will hurt its exports,” said  Kwon Young Sun , a
Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  
 Policy makers have to gauge the impact of any economic
slowdown abroad on the nation’s export-led economy before making
any further rate moves, Kwon said.  
 The Federal Reserve last month cut its forecasts for
economic growth this year and next in the U.S., where the
jobless rate has been 9.5 percent or higher since August.  
 Europe stress-tested its 91 largest banks this month to
restore confidence following the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.
China’s economic expansion eased to 10.3 percent in the second
quarter from 11.9 percent in January-March, the country’s
statistics bureau said last week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Sim  in Seoul at   wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael J. Munoz  in Hong Kong at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Kim Choong Soo, Governor of the Bank of Korea, speaks at a conference hosted by South Korea's government and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Daejeon. Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said that the U.S. and China may see a temporary slowdown as government stimulus is withdrawn and growth relies more on the private sector. Photographer: SeongJoon Cho/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
