-- Squawk-Box Brokers Lose Bid for Retrial on Claims Prosecutors Hid Evidence
-- Patricia Hurtado
-- 2010-07-22T00:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/squawk-box-brokers-lose-bid-for-retrial-on-claims-prosecutors-hid-evidence.html

          
          
             A former broker at  Merrill Lynch &
Co.  and  Citigroup Inc.  lost a bid to throw out his conviction
for selling access to his brokerages’ internal “squawk boxes”
after arguing prosecutors hid evidence of his innocence.  
 Kenneth Mahaffy Jr. , and five co-defendants found guilty
last year, asked U.S. District Judge  John Gleeson  in Brooklyn,
New York, to cancel their convictions, dismiss the indictment or
grant them a new trial. Gleeson denied their request in an order
today.  
 Lawyers for the men claim federal prosecutors withheld 27
transcripts of testimony from witnesses in a related civil
lawsuit brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Mahaffy’s lawyer,  Andrew Frisch , said he discovered the
documents in December, four days after the ex-broker was
sentenced to two years in prison.  
 “None of the testimony on which the motion relies even
remotely supports the proposition that it would be permissible
to sell squawk-box information to day traders so they could try
to trade ahead of block orders,” Gleeson wrote in his order.  
 Frisch said in a phone interview, “We’re very optimistic
about our appeal.”  
 Pending Trades  
 Mahaffy was one of three brokers convicted in April 2009 of
conspiring to sell day traders access to internal squawk boxes
used to discuss pending trades. Three former day-trading
executives at New York-based  A.B. Watley Group Inc.  were also
convicted.  
 Gleeson has allowed the defendants, who were sentenced in
December, to remain free during an appeal.  
 Defense lawyers argued that the government withheld
documents showing that more than 10 brokerage employees said in
depositions that what was said on the squawk boxes wasn’t
confidential.  
 Prosecutors said the transcripts wouldn’t have altered the
verdict. The SEC testimony wasn’t favorable to the defendants,
was immaterial and wouldn’t have cleared them of wrongdoing, the
government said.  
 The day traders were accused of using information overheard
on the intercoms to trade shares ahead of larger institutional
transactions, prosecutors said at trial.  
 Witness Tampering  
 The defendants, who were indicted in 2005, were tried
twice. The first trial in 2007 ended with a deadlocked jury on a
conspiracy count and acquittals of multiple securities-fraud
charges for all the defendants. One defendant, Timothy
O’Connell, was convicted of witness tampering. The federal
appeals court in New York upheld that conviction.  
 Prosecutors told jurors during both trials that the brokers
placed their telephones next to the squawk boxes each morning,
allowing the day traders unlimited, all-day access to
discussions about trades. The brokers received commissions while
Watley’s business was revived through the practice, the U.S.
said.  
 Convicted in the 2009 retrial of conspiracy to commit
securities fraud were brokers Mahaffy, who worked at  Merrill
Lynch & Co. , now a Bank of America unit, and at Citigroup;  David Ghysels Jr ., formerly of now-bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. , who was sentenced to six months’ home detention; and
O’Connell, formerly of Merrill Lynch, who was ordered to serve
four years’ probation and four months of home detention.  
 Prison Sentences  
 From Watley, those convicted were  Robert Malin , former
president, sentenced to four years in prison;  Keevin Leonard , a
former supervisor of proprietary trading, sentenced to 34
months; and  Linus Nwaigwe , a former compliance director,
sentenced to one year and one day plus six months’ home
detention.  
 “The decision was not unexpected,” Marc Fernich, a lawyer
for Malin, said in a phone interview. “We respectfully disagree
with his ruling, and we look forward to vindicating Mr. Malin’s
rights on appeal.”  
 Mildred Whalen, a lawyer for O’Connell; Jeffrey C. Hoffman,
a lawyer for Ghysels; Thomas F.X. Dunn, a lawyer for Leonard;
and  Donna Newman , a lawyer for Nwaigwe, didn’t immediately
return calls for comment left after New York business hours.  
 The case is U.S. v. Mahaffy, 05-cr-00613, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  
 -- With assistance from  David Glovin  in New York. Editors:
 Michael Hytha ,  Fred Strasser   
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thom Weidlich  in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 Patricia Hurtado  in New York federal court at 
 phurtado@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        