-- Success for Stress Tests Hinges on Data, Not Failures
-- Jann Bettinga
-- 2010-07-23T09:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/success-for-european-bank-stress-tests-hinges-on-data-not-failure-count.html

          
          
             The success of the European Union’s
bank stress tests hinges on how much detail regulators provide
about the basis for their conclusions, not on the number of
lenders that fail, investors said.  
 “The more transparency, the more important that the
results will be,” said Peter Braendle, who helps manage $51
billion at Swisscanto Asset Management in Zurich. “If the
methodology is a black box and we just get some results, that
will not be very helpful.”  
 Regulators are scrutinizing banks to assess if they have
enough capital, defined as a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6
percent, to withstand a recession and sovereign debt crisis,
according to a document from the  Committee of European Banking
Supervisors . Lenders that fail the trials will be made to raise
additional capital. The results will be published by CEBS and
national regulators starting at 6 p.m. Brussels time today.  
 The assessors haven’t so far provided full details of their
criteria, raising concern among investors they will not be
stringent enough. U.S. regulators published the metrics they
used to test their banks before they released their results last
year. U.S. bank stocks rallied 36 percent in the seven months
following the trials.  
 Governments are publishing the results of the region’s
first coordinated stress tests as they seek to end concerns
about the health of the banking system almost three years after
the subprime crisis roiled global financial markets. The 54-
member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services Index has
risen 9.3 percent this month, boosted by optimism that lenders
will pass. By comparison, the U.S. Standard & Poor’s Financials
Index has gained about 4.7 percent.  
 ‘Create Your Own’  
 “It’s pretty clear that a lot of banks will pass this
test,” said  Lutz Roehmeyer , who helps manage about $15 billion
at Landesbank Berlin Investment, including bank shares. “It
will be more important to see what raw data will be published.
With that you can create your own, more stringent scenarios.”  
 Ten of the 91 banks being tested are likely to fail,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts said in a note to clients
today, citing their own survey. Analysts’ estimates for the
amount of capital European banks will need to raise range from
30 billion euros ($38.7 billion), according to Nomura Holdings
Inc., to as much as 85 billion euros at Barclays Capital.  
 Investors have criticized the tests, saying they may not be
rigorous enough. In particular, they are questioning to what
extent regulators are examining banks’ sovereign-debt holdings,
including how  government bonds  in the trading and banking books
will be valued in the event of a sovereign debt crisis.  
 Sovereign Holdings  
 The tests won’t include the possibility of sovereign
defaults, Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said last
week, indicating that there will be no assumed losses on
government bonds held in lenders’ banking books.  
 “Banks hold the majority of their sovereign bonds in the
banking book, and as a EU country’s default is not part of the
stress test’s scenarios, impairments are not necessary,” said
Konrad Becker, a financial analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in
Munich. Lenders only write down the value of bonds in their
banking book if there is serious doubt about a state’s ability
to repay its debt in full or make interest payments, he said.  
 CEBS will publish the aggregate test results from 6 p.m.
National regulators and banks will then publish their results on
an individual basis, according to CEBS’s Web site.  
 Markets Closed  
 Banks may give breakdowns of their sovereign debt holdings.
Regulators have asked them to publish a list of each lender’s
gross and net exposure to central and local governments in 30
countries in the region, including  Greece ,  Spain , Ireland, Italy
and Portugal, according to a July 15 confidential draft template
by CEBS that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  
 The results will be released when European markets are
closed, giving banks that fail the test time to raise funds to
fill their capital shortfall before markets re-open. Officials
have yet to spell out how they would deal with a bank that fails
the tests and how additional capital may be provided.  
 EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said yesterday the union has the means to fix any problems that
may be found in the tests. Ailing lenders should first seek
funding from their shareholders and the markets before seeking
help from national rescue funds, Rehn said in an e-mailed copy
of a speech given in Pori,  Finland .  
 Analysts say the banks most likely to fail are  Germany ’s
state-owned lenders and Spanish savings banks. Europe’s largest
banks from  Societe Generale  SA to  Barclays Plc  and  Deutsche Bank
AG  are expected to come through the tests without needing to
raise additional capital, according to analysts.  
 Hypo Real Estate  
 Hypo Real Estate Holding AG, the commercial-property lender
rescued by the German government, has failed the criteria,
people with knowledge of the situation said this week, making it
the first bank known to have flunked the tests. The bank
declined to comment. Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., Slovenia’s
largest bank, said it needs to raise 600 million euros following
the tests.  
 “I think there will be a few sacrificial pawns, such as
Hypo that will fail the tests,” said  Frances Hudson , head of
global thematic strategy at Standard Life Investments in
Edinburgh, which oversees $221 billion. “But, overall, I think
that the vast majority of the banks will pass.”  
   Adair Turner , chairman of the Financial Services Authority,
said last month Britain’s banks are likely to pass the European
assessments after U.K. regulators conducted more stringent tests
on the lenders. Bank of Ireland Plc and  Allied Irish Banks Plc ,
the country’s two biggest banks, passed the tests, according to
a person with knowledge of the situation.  
 Deutsche Bank AG, Commerzbank AG and  Deutsche Postbank AG ,
Germany’s biggest publicly traded banks, also have sufficient
capital, separate people with knowledge of the situation said.  National Bank of Greece SA , the country’s biggest lender, will
pass stress tests, chairman Vassilios T. Rapanos said this week.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  London  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Jann Bettinga in  Frankfurt  at 
 jbettinga@bloomberg.net .  
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Olli Rehn, the European Union's economic and monetary affairs commissioner, listens during a press conference. Photographer: Hannelore Foerster/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Sanjay Joshi, a fixed income strategist at London & Capital Group Ltd., and Jean-Pierre Lambert, an analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Ltd., discuss the European bank stress test results expected later today.
     They speak with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg Television's "Countdown." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- David Kotok, chairman and chief investment officer of Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Florida, talks with Bloomberg's Susan Li about European bank stress tests, and his investment strategy for the region's stocks.
     European stocks climbed for a third day yesterday as unexpected growth in the region’s manufacturing and services industries and rising U.K. retail sales eased concern that the economic recovery may be faltering. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 23 (Bloomberg) -- Germany's Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter says that his country is committed to supporting troubled banks and that he's "bullish" on the U.S. economy. Bloomberg's Sara Eisen reports. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
