-- Swedbank Second-Quarter Profit Beats Estimates as Baltic Loan Losses Fall
-- Niklas Magnusson
-- 2010-07-22T09:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/swedbank-reports-second-quarter-income-of-212-million-beating-estimates.html

          
          
             Swedbank AB , the largest bank in the
Baltic countries, said all Nordic lenders should pass European
Union stress tests after it reported a second consecutive
quarterly profit.  
 Second-quarter net income was 1.57 billion kronor ($212
million) after a net loss of 2.01 billion kronor a year earlier,
the Stockholm-based bank said today. The average estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was an 808 million-krona profit.  
 Swedbank and other Nordic lenders suffered soaring losses
on bad loans last year as the Baltic region suffered the
steepest recession in the European Union. Loan losses have
dropped for five straight quarters after peaking at 6.85 billion
kronor in the first three months of 2009 and that decline will
continue, Swebank’s management said today.  
 “Loan-loss provisions of 963 million kronor were
significantly better than expected, driven by halving provisions
in the Baltic division,”  Henrik Christiansson , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in London, wrote in a note to clients. “We
expect significant consensus EPS upgrades.”  
 Swedbank rose as much as 3.6 percent and was up 1.2 percent
at 78.95 kronor as of 11:29 a.m. in Stockholm trading.  The
shares  have advanced 15 percent this year, the best performance
among Sweden’s four largest lenders.  
 ‘Credit Quality’  
 “In the Baltic countries, credit quality has improved more
rapidly than anticipated which meant that credit losses have
decreased strongly,” said Swedbank Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Wolf , who replaced  Jan Liden  in March 2009. “Assuming
that the global macro-economy develops according to current
expectations, we believe our results will continue to improve.”  
 Lower loan losses resulted in Swedbank’s Estonia unit
posting a profit for the first time since the fourth quarter of
2008, Christiansson said.  
 Swedbank was the last major Swedish bank to report second-
quarter earnings.  SEB AB ’s 1.99 billion-krona profit and the
earnings reported by Nordea Bank AB, the Nordic region’s largest
lender, also beat analysts’ estimates.  
 None of the Nordic banks should have “an issue” with the
stress tests, which will be published tomorrow and show that
Swedbank is “financially robust,” Swedbank’s CEO Wolf said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television.  
 EU regulators are examining the strength of 91 banks to
determine if they can survive potential losses from both a
recession and a decline in the value of their government bond
holdings. They are using the tests to reassure investors about
the health of financial institutions from Germany’s WestLB AG to
Spanish savings banks as the debt crisis pummels the bonds of
Greece and Spain.  
 Denmark’s  Danske Bank A/S  and Sweden’s four largest banks
are among the eight Nordic banks included in the test.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        