-- Syngenta Abandons Goal for 2010 Earnings Growth as Inventories Hurt Prices
-- Antonio Ligi
-- 2010-07-22T05:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/syngenta-first-half-profit-falls-11-as-pricing-pressures-weigh-on-sales.html

          
          
             Syngenta AG , the world’s biggest
maker of agriculture chemicals, said first-half profit declined
11 percent as burgeoning inventories of pesticides and crop-care
products in North America hurt pricing.  
 Net income  fell to $1.25 billion, or $13.39 a share, from
$1.4 billion, or $14.96 a share, a year earlier, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said in an e-mailed statement. Profit
fell short of the $1.38 billion predicted by analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Sales advanced 1 percent to $6.74 billion.  
 North American customers with full inventories of
agrochemicals damaged Syngenta’s pricing power in the period,
eclipsing the company’s sustained growth in emerging markets.
The Swiss maker of the Axial weed killer reported a pick-up in
business in the second quarter and predicted annual earnings
will match last year’s level.  
 “In the second half of 2010 we expect positive volume
momentum to continue,” Chief Executive Officer  Michael Mack 
said in the statement. “As we approach the main season in Latin
America, we are assuming that the current favorable fundamentals
will support further growth in our business there.”  
 Syngenta has fallen 17 percent this year in Zurich trading,
cutting its market value to 22.9 billion Swiss francs ($22
billion), and trailing the 1.9 percent decrease of the 15-stock
Bloomberg Europe Chemicals Index.  
 The Swiss company reported a “noticeable” acceleration at
its seeds business in the second quarter.  
 R&D Boost  
 Syngenta, which spent almost $1 billion on research last
year, is reaping the reward of introducing a so-called triple
stacked corn seed that’s been engineered to resist weed killers
and pests. It began marketing the genetically modified seed in
the U.S. in 2008, stepping up its challenge to the country’s
market leader, St. Louis-based  Monsanto Co.   
 Monsanto last month posted a 45 percent drop in fiscal
third-quarter profit. The unit that makes Roundup, the world’s
best-selling herbicide based on glyphosate, lost $189 million
after cutting prices by more than half to compete with generics.  
 Nufarm Ltd. , Australia’s largest supplier of farm
chemicals, on July 14 reduced its forecast after adverse weather
in Australia, Europe and North America decreased demand for crop
protection products amid pressure on prices.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Antonio Ligi  in Zurich at 
 aligi@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        