-- U.K. June Retail Sales Rise 0.7% on World Cup Spending, Beating Estimates
-- Scott Hamilton
-- 2010-07-22T08:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/u-k-june-retail-sales-rise-0-7-on-world-cup-spending-beating-estimates.html

          
          
             U.K.  retail sales  rose more than
economists forecast in June as the World Cup tournament stoked
purchases at electrical goods shops and department stores.  
 Sales climbed 0.7 percent on the month, the Office for
National Statistics said today in London. Economists forecast a
0.5 percent gain, according to the median of 24 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier, sales rose 1.3
percent.  
 Consumer spending may be strengthening after  unemployment 
fell in the three months through May as the recovery gained
momentum. While economists forecast the economy doubled its pace
of growth in the second quarter, shoppers may limit purchases as
the government implements the biggest budget squeeze since World
War II to reduce the  record deficit .  
 “We see a slow and steady increase in consumer spending as
the recovery gains traction,”  Philip Shaw , an economist at
Investec Securities in London, said in a telephone interview.
“Fears about government spending cuts will probably have some
effects on consumer psychology.”  
 The pound extended its gain against the dollar after the
report and was up 0.5 percent to $1.5246 as of 9:43 a.m. in
London.  
 Department Stores  
 Sales at non-specialized stores, which includes department
stores, rose 1.5 percent in June from May, while sales at
household goods shops jumped 1.6 percent. Statistics office
officials said electrical goods stores benefited in the run-up
to the World Cup soccer tournament and from promotions to lure
shoppers.  
 John Lewis Partnership Plc, owner of the namesake
department stores and Waitrose supermarkets, said last week that
sales at its department shops rose 9.1 percent in the week
ending July 10 from a year earlier.  
 Food sales rose 0.6 percent on the month and were down 0.2
percent from a year earlier, the statistics office said. In the
quarter through June, food sales were up 0.9 percent from the
previous three months. Non-food sales gained 1.2 percent on the
month and climbed 1.5 percent on a three-month basis.  
 Excluding fuel, retail sales increased 1 percent in June
from May and were up 3.1 percent on the year.  
 Price Deflator  
 Today’s report showed that the implied deflator, a measure
of annual price changes in shops, was 1.3 percent higher than a
year earlier. That compares with 2.4 percent in May and is the
lowest since November. The deflator for households goods stores
was minus 1.3 percent.  
 The U.K.  inflation rate  rose to a 17-month high in April
and was at 3.2 percent in June, above the government’s 3 percent
upper limit. Consumers’ expectations for price increases for the
coming year eased to 2.7 percent this month from 3 percent in
June, which was the highest in 21 months, Citigroup Inc. said
yesterday, citing a YouGov Plc poll.  
 Bank of England officials said in the minutes of their July
8 meeting that while the impact of the budget measures on the
economy were “hard to gauge,” it was “likely that they had
pushed down a little on the most likely path for output.”  
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc , the U.K.’s largest clothing
retailer, said July 7 it’s “cautious” about the outlook for
consumer spending after reporting slowing first-quarter sales
growth.  
 The  economy  probably expanded 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, twice the pace in the previous three months, according
to the median of 32 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
statistics office is due to publish its preliminary estimate of
GDP in the second quarter tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. in London.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Customers browse televisions whilst the football World Cup is shown at a Currys store in London. Photographer: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
