-- U.K. Dividends to Drop for a Second Year as BP Pulls Payout, Capita Says
-- Francesca Angelini
-- 2010-07-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/u-k-dividends-to-drop-for-a-second-year-as-bp-pulls-payout-capita-says.html

          
          
             U.K. dividends are forecast to fall
for a second year after  BP Plc  canceled $7.5 billion of
shareholder payouts to help fund the cost of cleaning up its
Gulf of Mexico oil spill, Capita Registrars said.  
 British companies will pay out 54.7 billion pounds ($83.4
billion) to shareholders in 2010, 6.5 percent less than last
year and a 19 percent drop from 2008, according to the Capita
Registrars Dividend Monitor, which analyzes data provided by
Exchange Data International. Excluding BP,  dividends  would gain
2.9 percent. In the second quarter, payments totaled 15 billion
pounds, 8 percent less than the year-earlier period.  
 After the credit crisis forced banks to curtail shareholder
payouts, oil companies have come to dominate, with BP alone due
to account for 12 percent of U.K. dividends in the second
quarter. Britain’s second-biggest oil company last month
canceled three quarters of payouts to help meet President  Barack Obama ’s demand for a $20 billion fund to compensate victims of
the worst oil spill in U.S. history.  
 “With the economy emerging slowly from recession,
corporate profitability is improving, but dividend growth is
still anaemic,” Capita wrote in an e-mailed statement today.
“There is a lag as companies seek to ensure solid recovery
before lifting their payouts at the end of a financial period.”  
 More than 40 percent of all dividends in the second quarter
were paid out by five companies:  Royal Dutch Shell Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s largest oil company; British American Tobacco Plc,
Europe’s second-biggest cigarette maker; HSBC Holdings Plc, the
region’s largest bank; GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Britain’s biggest
drugmaker; and Standard Chartered Plc, the U.K. lender that
makes the majority of its profit in Asia.  
 While companies in the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  cut their
first-half dividends by 8.3 percent to 25.2 billion pounds,
smaller FTSE 250 companies raised payouts by 24 percent to 2.4
billion pounds.  
 In April, Capita forecast that 2010 dividends would
increase 1.3 percent.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Angelini  in London 
 fangelini1@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        