-- RBS May Need Extra Help From U.K. Taxpayer, Asset Protection Agency Says
-- Andrew MacAskill
-- 2010-07-22T15:54:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/u-k-s-asset-protection-scheme-sees-taxpayer-reaping-eventual-7-6-billion.html

          
          
             There’s a “reasonable chance” that
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  will require additional support
from British taxpayers, according to the  Asset Protection
Agency , which insures risky assets for the biggest U.K.
government-controlled lender.  
 The bank may record 57 billion pounds ($87 billion) of
losses on its government-insured assets, the  agency  said in its
annual report published today. Under the terms of the plan, the
government will pay for 90 percent of losses exceeding 60
billion pounds.  
 Even so, the Treasury may have to step in to pay a
“relatively small amount in 2015,” as losses peak, the APA
said. The government should ultimately record a profit on the
insurance it provides the bank, the agency said.  
 British taxpayers have already provided RBS with a 45.5
billion-pound capital injection between 2008 and 2009. In
November, CEO  Stephen Hester  said the bank planned to exit the
program covering home loans, leveraged loans, commercial real
estate, derivatives and structured finance, within five years.  
 The chances of net losses rising above 74 billion pounds,
as envisaged under a “severe stress” test, are between one in
10 and one in 20, the APA said.  
 Overall, assets insured by the British taxpayer have
declined by 18 percent to about 231 billion pounds at the end of
March after reaching 282 billion pounds at the end of 2008, the
 agency  said. The fall was partly attributable to asset sales,
early repayments and maturities, it said. More than half the
risky assets were made in foreign currencies, the APA said.  
 ‘Fragile Recovery’  
 “The recovery is extremely fragile and the recent travails
of the eurozone and its banks serve as a salutary reminder it
would be too early to declare our task over,” said  Stephan Wilcke , Chief Executive Officer of the APA. “The pool of assets
remains vulnerable due to high leverage and significant
refinancing risks and it is largely due to the extremely low
interest rates that we have been spared the early realization of
larger losses.”  
 The agency said it expects to make a profit of 5 billion
pounds from the program, helped by 2.5 billion-pound payment
from  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , which last year reversed its
decision to enter the plan.  
 RBS paid 1.4 billion pounds in December for insurance in
2009 and 2010, and will contribute 500 million pounds annually
thereafter.  
 ‘Difference of Opinion’  
 RBS  and the APA are negotiating following a “difference of
opinion” over whether certain structured credit assets should
be included in the program, it said.  
 The APA has also “expressed concern over the quality of
credit memos and financial analysis received from RBS and the
consistency with which RBS manages the covered assets,” it said
in the report. The agency asked RBS to hire specialist advisers
to help oversee the program following a number of breaches, it
said.  
 “Over the life” of the program, losses on covered assets
won’t exceed 60 billion pounds, the bank said in response to
questions from Bloomberg News. The plan offered “valuable
protection” against a severe deterioration in the economy, the
Edinburgh-based bank said.  
 The 83 percent government-owned bank agreed with the
European Commission in November it would sell more than 300
hundred branches, insurance units and other assets in return for
receiving state aid.  
 RBS  declined  by 1.1 percent to close at 44.7 pence at 4:35
p.m. in London, for a market value of 25.9 billion pounds, the
worst performer in the five-member  FTSE 350 Index  of U.K. banks.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jon Menon  in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        