-- U.S. Wants Transparency From Myanmar After Reports of Nuclear Arms Program
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-07-22T03:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/u-s-wants-transparency-from-myanmar-after-reports-of-nuclear-arms-program.html

          
          
             The U.S. called on Myanmar to
disclose its relationship with North Korea amid concerns  Kim Jong Il ’s regime is helping the military-run Southeast Asian
nation pursue a nuclear weapons program.  
 U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will hold meetings
in Hanoi today with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations,
which includes Myanmar. Tomorrow, she will join North Korean
Foreign Minister  Pak Ui Chun  at Asia’s biggest security forum.  
 “We have told Burmese officials that they have
international obligations we expect them to heed,” State
Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said yesterday in an e-
mail, referring to Myanmar by its former name. “This requires
greater transparency in their dealings with North Korea.”  
 Myanmar told its  Asean counterparts  at meetings this week
that it’s not seeking nuclear weapons. Jane’s Intelligence
Review released an article yesterday with newly available
commercial satellite images that it says corroborate allegations
by Myanmar defector Major Sai Thein Win that the government is
pursuing an atomic bomb.  
 “Myanmar’s government, the foreign minister, has told us
categorically that they don’t have a nuclear weapons program,
and have no ambitions” to start one, Singapore Foreign Minister
 George Yeo  told reporters in Hanoi on July 20.  
 Myanmar Foreign Minister Nyan Win hasn’t addressed
reporters at the meeting. Last month, after Al Jazeera
television reported the allegations, his government  said  they
were “baseless accusations based solely on the fabrications of
deserters, fugitives and exiles.”  
 North Korea Ties  
 Myanmar conducts relations with North Korea “in the same
way as it has been trying to maintain friendly relations with
every nation,” the Foreign Ministry said in a June 11 statement.
The country upholds United Nations resolutions regarding North
Korea and shipments between the nations involve “normal
commercial activities,” it said.  
 Photos of buildings and security fences near the country’s
capital,  Naypyidaw , confirm reports by Sai Thein Win of machine
tool factories and other plants alleged to be part of a nascent
program to build nuclear weapons, Jane’s reported from London.  
 “They will not make a bomb with the technology they
currently possess or the intellectual capability,” Jane’s
analyst Allison Puccioni said in an interview. “The two factors
do make it possible to have a route to one.”  
 Military Ties  
 Clinton expressed concern about reports that North Korea
and Myanmar are expanding military ties and sharing nuclear
technology at a meeting of Southeast Asian foreign ministers in
Thailand last year. The U.S. will remain “vigilant” against
any military cooperation between the two countries, she said.  
 Yesterday, Clinton announced further sanctions against
North Korea in an effort to halt the country’s nuclear-weapons
program.  
 Sai said he worked at two factories involved in the nuclear
program. His  report  to a U.S.-funded Myanmar opposition news
website, Democratic Voice of Burma, based in Norway, included
documents and color photographs of the interior of the
installations.  
 The satellite imagery reviewed by Jane’s showed only the
exterior of the buildings, Puccioni said.  
 Myanmar’s nuclear program is “overly ambitious with
limited expertise,” Jane’s said in a statement yesterday. While
Myanmar is a signatory to international agreements to control
nuclear weapons use, it hasn’t agreed to more recent changes in
the treaties and therefore isn’t subject to international
inspections, the magazine said.  
 Nuclear Free  
 The reports about Myanmar’s nuclear weapons program
“perplexed” Asean member states, Indonesia Foreign  Marty Natalegawa  said in a July 20 interview. Asean ministers,
including Myanmar, reiterated intentions to keep Southeast Asia
free of nuclear weapons at the meetings this week.  
 The allegations directed at Myanmar are a “manifestation
of the lack of information about what’s happening in the
country,” Natalegawa said. “That’s why we think the best
approach would be to ensure greater transparency so we have
greater confidence about what’s going on.”  
 Asean works closely with the International Atomic Energy
Agency and can send inspectors to Myanmar under the  Southeast
Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone  treaty, he said.  
 During President  George W. Bush ’s administration, North
Korea discussed delivering short-range missiles and nuclear
capability to Myanmar, according to  Michael J. Green , an adviser
at the Washington-based  Center for Strategic and International
Studies  and former senior director for Asia on the National
Security Council under Bush.  
 The evidence points to a method of uranium enrichment,
laser enrichment, that the North Koreans have never used,  David Kay , a former United Nations weapons inspector and now a fellow
at the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies in Arlington,
Virginia, said in an interview.  
 “If it is laser enrichment the finger points more toward
Chinese assistance or some place in the former Soviet Union,”
he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter S. Green  in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Hanoi at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Hillary Clinton, U.S. secretary of state  
                       
                         
                           Nelson Ching/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Hillary Clinton, U.S. secretary of state, speaks at a luncheon in Hanoi. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Hillary Clinton, U.S. secretary of state, speaks at a luncheon in Hanoi. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
