-- U.S. Boosts Asian Defense Ties Amid Growing Challenge From China Military
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-07-22T12:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/u-s-expands-asian-military-cooperation-amid-growing-challenge-from-china.html

          
          
             Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
restored ties with Indonesia’s special forces after a 12-year
gap as the U.S. strengthened military cooperation across Asia
and expressed concern at China’s expanding armed forces.  
 The U.S. will begin a “measured and gradual” relationship
with the elite troops, Gates said today in Jakarta, where he met
his counterpart  Purnomo Yusgiantoro  and President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono . Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  today discussed
defense cooperation with Vietnam a day after she and Gates
affirmed their military support for South Korea in Seoul ahead
of joint naval drills starting July 25.  
 “China’s assertiveness has caused anxieties in the
region,”  Carlyle A. Thayer , professor of politics at the
Australian Defense Force Academy in Canberra, said by phone.
Countries around Asia “are quite happy the U.S. is doing the
heavy lifting,” he said.  
 Clinton may meet China’s Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi 
tomorrow in Hanoi, where both are attending the 27-member Asean
Regional Forum, Asia’s biggest security gathering. China
considers the entire South China Sea as its own, dismissing
rival claims, and is building a blue-water fleet to project
power beyond its own borders.  
 China cut off high-level military exchanges with the U.S.
in January over arms sales to Taiwan and has declined to join
the Obama administration in blaming North Korea for the sinking
of a South Korean warship in March that killed 46 sailors.  
 Shrouded in Secrecy  
 Michael Mullen , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
yesterday told U.S. troops in South Korea that the inability to
speak directly with Chinese military leaders was a cause for
concern.  
 “I’ve moved from being curious about what they’re doing to
being concerned about what they’re doing,”  Mullen said . “I see
a fairly significant investment in high-end equipment,
satellites, ships, anti-ship missiles, high-end aircraft.”  
 The U.S. regards Indonesia and Vietnam as increasingly
important strategic allies in the region, the Pentagon said in a
February  report . Both countries border the South China Sea,
which contains sea corridors vital to world trade, and where
U.S. officials say China has become more assertive.  
 The Paracel and Spratly islands, groups of rocky outcrops
with unproven oil and gas deposits that are claimed in part or
in full by China, Vietnam, Taiwan, Brunei, the Philippines and
Malaysia, have been at the center of tensions.  
 ‘More Oil Than Iran’  
 Estimates of oil and gas reserves vary, with some Chinese
studies suggesting the waters contain more oil than Iran and
more natural gas than Saudi Arabia, according to the U.S.  Energy
Information Administration . China told some international oil
and gas companies to halt exploration in offshore areas that
Vietnam considers part of its territory, a U.S. official told
Congress last year.  
 The South China Sea, stretching from Singapore to the
Strait of Taiwan, is an “area of growing concern,”  Gates  said
in Singapore last month.  Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  BP Plc  are among
companies that have halted projects in the sea because of
China’s objections, according to U.S. government agencies.  
 Gates and Clinton stressed how relationships with Vietnam
and Indonesia were improving. The decision to restore links with
Indonesian forces was possible due to Indonesia’s progress in
professionalizing the military since the fall of the dictator
Suharto, Gates said.  
 Vietnam is on the verge of becoming a “great nation” and
the U.S. wants to take its relationship to a “new level,”
Clinton told reporters in Hanoi. She met Vietnam’s Deputy Prime
Minister  Pham Gia Khiem , who said they discussed defense links
and were “leaving the past behind.”  
 Deterrent  
 In contrast, Clinton said her presence with Gates in Seoul
and the new sanctions they announced sought to send a clear
deterrent to North Korea after the warship sinking that an
international panel blamed on a torpedo from one of the North’s
mini-submarines.  
 The USS George Washington and three destroyers called into
South Korean ports the same day in a show of U.S. commitment to
the region. The ships arrived ahead of planned military
maneuvers off South Korea’s coast next week.  
 China has beefed up its military over the past decade,
enhancing the capability to deter U.S. ships and enforce
territorial claims off its shores. Last year, Chinese fishing
boats harassed two U.S. naval vessels in the South China Sea,
where American forces have patrolled since World War II.  
 “It is the transparency with respect to China that is
probably most vexing because it’s difficult to figure out where
they are headed,” Mullen said yesterday.  
 Asean ministers invited the U.S. and Russia to join the
East Asia Summit, which includes the 10-member bloc, China,
South Korea, Japan, India, Australia and New Zealand. That would
provide another forum where Chinese and American presidents meet
face to face.  
 “The U.S. is very important to the whole Asia-Pacific,”
Thai Foreign Minister  Kasit Piromya  told reporters in Hanoi.
“Their presence here with the Seventh fleet guarantees peace
and security and the safety of sea lanes.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        