-- U.S., Vietnam Are Ready to Take Relationship to `New Level,' Clinton Says
-- Daniel Ten Kate
-- 2010-07-22T07:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/u-s-ready-to-take-relationship-with-vietnam-to-new-level-clinton-says.html

          
          
             The U.S. is ready to take relations
with Vietnam to a “new level” 15 years after establishing
diplomatic ties with its former adversary, Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said.  
 Vietnam is on the verge of becoming a “great nation” and
the U.S. is keen to promote further economic progress, she told
reporters in Hanoi today after meeting Vietnam’s Foreign
Minister and Deputy Prime Minister  Pham Gia Khiem .  
 “We see this relationship as important not only on its own
merits,” but also in the context of the larger Southeast Asia
region, Clinton said. The two countries fought a war ending in
1975 that killed 58,000 U.S. soldiers and more than 3 million
Vietnamese.  
 Closer ties between the U.S. and Vietnam come as American
military officials say China’s military buildup raises security
concerns for the region. China claims the entire South China Sea
as its own, putting it at odds with Vietnam and other countries
that also declare sovereignty over islands in a waterway that
may contain oil and gas reserves.  
 The U.S. and Vietnam have taken steps on defense
cooperation since normalizing relations, including visits by U.S.
Navy ships to Vietnamese ports. Clinton said the U.S. seeks to
tap opportunities in Vietnam even as she expressed concern about
stifling dissent and civil rights.  
 “Vietnam with its extraordinary dynamic population is on
the path to becoming a great nation with an unlimited
potential,” Clinton said. “That is among the reasons we
express concern about the arrests and conviction of people for
peaceful dissent, attacks on religious groups and curbs on
Internet freedom.”  
 ‘Frank and Constructive’  
 The “frank and constructive” talks covered education,
health, environmental protection and defense issues, Khiem said.  
 “I reaffirmed the commitment of Vietnam to strengthen our
relationship with the U.S. in the spirit of leaving the past
behind,” he said, acknowledging their different views over
human rights issues.  
 China told some international oil and gas companies to halt
exploration in offshore areas that Vietnam considers part of its
territory, a U.S. official told Congress last year. China,
Vietnam, Taiwan, Brunei, the Philippines and Malaysia claim all
or part of the Paracel and Spratly islands, groups of rocky
outcrops in the sea with unproven oil and gas deposits.  
 The South China Sea, stretching from Singapore to the
Strait of Taiwan, is an “area of growing concern,” U.S.
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  said in Singapore last month.
 Exxon Mobil Corp.  and  BP Plc  are among companies that have
halted projects in the sea because of China’s objections,
according to U.S. government agencies.  
 Vietnam’s which joined the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations in 1995, has the third-biggest population of the
grouping’s member states with 87 million people. Average
economic growth in Vietnam has exceeded 7 percent over the past
decade, pushing per-capita income past the $1,000 mark. The
Vietnamese government is targeting a figure of as much as $3,000
by 2020.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Daniel Ten Kate  in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        