-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Increased Profit Forecasts
-- Nikolaj Gammeltoft
-- 2010-07-22T20:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/u-s-stock-futures-advance-ebay-qualcomm-rally-in-germany-on-earnings.html

          
          
             U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index gaining the most in two weeks, after
companies from  United Parcel Service Inc.  to AT&T Inc. and
Qualcomm Inc. increased profit forecasts.  
 UPS jumped 5.2 percent as growing overseas demand and cost-
cutting improved the earnings outlook at the world’s largest
package-delivery company.  AT&T  rose 2.4 percent as quarterly
profit beat analysts’ estimates on demand for  Apple Inc. ’s
iPhone. Qualcomm, the biggest maker of chips that run mobile
phones, jumped the most since November 2008 as it predicted
higher selling prices for devices based on its technology.  
 The  S&P 500  rose 2.3 percent to 1,093.67 as of 4 p.m. in
New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed 201.77
points, or 2 percent, to 10,322.30. Both gauges gained the most
since July 7.  
 “Investors look to UPS as an indicator for the global
economy, so their strong numbers are a positive,” said  Greg Woodard , portfolio strategist at Manning & Napier in Fairport,
New York, which manages about $30 billion. “Some of the
negative sentiment that had crept into the market is
disappearing.”  
 The S&P 500 has climbed 7 percent since July 2 on optimism
about corporate earnings. About  85 percent  of S&P 500 companies
that have reported results since July 12 beat analysts’ per-
share earnings forecasts, Bloomberg data show, while 69 percent
have topped revenue forecasts. Sales have risen 9.2 percent for
S&P 500 companies that have reported earnings so far.  
 ‘Good Shape’  
 “Corporate America is in very good shape,” said London-
based  Stephen Pope , chief global equity strategist at Cantor
Fitzgerald. “We are seeing companies coming through with good
top-line growth. I am happy with the tone and tenor of the U.S.
equity market.”  
 UPS jumped 5.2 percent to $63.15 after raising its annual
profit forecast and posting second-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates. Net income was $845 million, or 84 cents a
share, which exceeded the 75-cent average of 10 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 13 percent to
$12.2 billion, UPS said.  
 The Dow Jones Transportation Average,  an index of 20 stocks
including UPS, jumped 3.9 percent, as Union Pacific Corp., the
largest U.S. railroad by 2009 revenue, also rallied on better-
than-estimated earnings.  
 AT&T, Qualcomm  
 AT&T increased 2.4 percent to $25.51. The largest U.S.
phone company also reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates. AT&T, which gets more than 40 percent of
its sales from its wireless unit, activated 3.2 million iPhones
in the period and gained a net 496,000 contract subscribers.  
 Qualcomm  rallied 8.2 percent to $39.11 after the chipmaker
said it expects higher profit and selling prices for devices
based on its technology. The company raised its 2010 profit
forecast and reported third-quarter sales that topped some
analysts’ estimates, a sign that demand for phones is picking
up.  
 U.S. regional banks surged on earnings that beat analysts’
estimates and lower loan-loss provisions. Fifth Third Bancorp
jumped 10 percent to $12.45.  
 The  KBW Bank Index  gained 3.9 percent after  Fifth Third 
posted its first profit in four quarters.  SunTrust Banks Inc. 
increased 9.6 percent to $24.58 after reporting a profit of $12
million compared with a loss of $183 million a year earlier.  
 Homebuilders Advance  
 Homebuilders advanced after purchases of  existing houses 
dropped a less-than-forecast 5.1 percent to a 5.37 million
annual rate, figures from the National Association of Realtors
showed today in Washington. The number of transactions will be
“very low” in coming months, reflecting the end of the
government incentive, the group’s chief economist said in a news
conference.  
 Lennar Corp. , the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by
revenue, gained 3.1 percent to $14.76.  Toll Brothers Inc. , the
biggest U.S. luxury-home builder, climbed 3.8 percent to $17.14.
 Home Depot Inc. , the largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
advanced 2.7 percent to $28.22.  
 Amazon.com Inc. and  Microsoft Corp.  were among companies
that reported quarterly results after the close of trading
today.  
 Amazon.com Inc. tumbled 13 percent to $103.93 in after-
market trading after rising 2.3 percent during the regular
session. The largest Internet retailer reported second-quarter
earnings of 45 cents a share. The average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a profit of 54 cents a share.  
 Microsoft  
 Microsoft gained 2.9 percent to $25.84 at 4 p.m. The
world’s largest software maker reported fourth-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates after customers purchased more
personal computers running the Windows operating system. The
stock slumped 0.8 percent to $25.64 in trading after the
official close of markets.  
 The major indexes extended gains as the Conference Board
said its index of leading indicators fell 0.2 percent in June
from the prior month. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had, on
average, expected a 0.3 percent drop. The housing data and
leading indicator reports overshadowed a jump in initial jobless
 claims  of 37,000 to 464,000 in the week ended July 17, exceeding
the highest estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
Labor Department figures showed. The survey median projected
claims would climb to 445,000.  
 “Investors are giving the stimulative measures the benefit
of the doubt over the debt imbalances that we still face,” said
 Jordan  Irving, who helps manage about $136 billion at Delaware
Investments in Philadelphia. “The general trend of the economic
data points to a nice recovery, maybe with a slowdown in the
second half of the year, but no double dip.”  
 Bernanke Effect  
 U.S. stocks snapped two days of gains yesterday as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the economic outlook
remains “unusually uncertain” without offering additional
measures to stimulate growth. His semiannual testimony concluded
today with a hearing before the House Financial Services
Committee in Washington.  
 Xerox Corp.  climbed 7.4 percent to $9.03. The largest maker
of high-speed color printers posted second-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates and boosted its full-year forecast on
increasing revenue and cost cuts. The company said 2010 earnings
excluding some items would be at least 88 cents a share,
compared with the 87-cent average estimate of analyst surveyed
by Bloomberg.  
 AmeriCredit Corp.  surged 21 percent to $23.91 after General
Motors Co. said it’s buying the subprime lender for $24.50 a
share.  
 3M Co. , the maker of products from stethoscopes to
sandpaper, advanced 3 percent to $84.75 after raising its full-
year forecast and posting profit that beat analysts’ estimates
as sales climbed at all divisions for the third straight
quarter.  
 Boeing Co. rose the most in the Dow, advancing 5.4 percent
to $66.60 after the Chicago-based planemaker and Airbus SAS won
237 jetliner orders worth $28 billion at this week’s Farnborough
Air Show, more than three times the number announced in Paris a
year ago, prompting some executives to declare the global slump
over.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nikolaj Gammeltoft  in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     UPS jumped 7 percent as growing overseas demand and cost cutting efforts improved the earnings outlook at the world’s largest package-delivery company. Photographer: Norm Betts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Bloomberg's Courtney Donohoe reports on the performance of the U.S. equity market today.
     U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining the most in two weeks, after companies from United Parcel Service Inc. to AT&T Inc. and Qualcomm Inc. increased profit forecasts. Bloomberg's Pimm Fox also speaks. (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Cliff Remily, a portfolio manager at Thornburg Investment Management Inc., talks about his investment strategy for dividend-paying stocks.
     Remily talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Street Smart."  (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
