-- Lula-Like Candidate May Push Brazil Race Into Second Round on Environment
-- Maria Luiza Rabello
-- 2010-07-22T23:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/lula-like-candidate-may-push-brazil-race-into-second-round-on-environment.html

          
          
             In the race to succeed Brazilian
President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva, only one candidate can
match the former union leader’s up-by-the-bootstraps biography:
his former Environmental Minister  Marina Silva .  
 Silva, 52, who spent her childhood tapping rubber trees in
the Amazon rain forest and worked as a maid before entering
politics, had 10 percent backing in an Ibope poll published July
3. Lula’s former cabinet chief and chosen successor,  Dilma Rousseff , had the support of 39 percent, tied with opposition
candidate  Jose Serra , in the survey of 2,002 adults that had a
margin of error of 2 percentage points.  
 Silva , who resigned from Lula’s cabinet in 2008 after
losing environmental battles to business interests, may be
drawing support away from both frontrunners, said  David Fleischer , a political analyst at the University of Brasilia.
She promises to maintain her former mentor’s poverty-fighting
policies and programs for luring investment while ushering in an
era of corruption-free politics and concern for the environment.  
 “What is right, in the past 16 years, both in economic
policy and in social policy, we will keep,” Silva said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo ahead of meetings this week in
New York with investors. “The mistakes we will correct, as we
face new challenges, especially promoting sustainable growth.”  
 Silva said in an interview today that if elected she would
improve upon Lula’s policies and leave her own “trademark.” By
contrast Rousseff seeks simply to emulate the current president
and Serra would stake out opposition positions just for the sake
of being different than Lula, Silva said.  
 Second Round  
 If support for her  Green Party  candidacy holds, Silva may
push the Oct. 3 election for the next leader of Latin America’s
largest economy into a second round, said  Christopher Garman ,
the Eurasia Group’s director for Latin America. A candidate
needs 50 percent of the vote to avoid a runoff.  
 Lula, who left school at age 11 to support his family and
lost a pinky finger operating a machine press on an assembly
line, is preparing to step down with a record approval rating of
85 percent, according to  Ibope .  
 Silva says her campaign will benefit from new technologies
to reach out to voters, such as the Internet and Twitter Inc.’s
social networking site, following the example of President
 Barack Obama . Silva predicted today she would advance to the
second round of voting.  
 All three candidates vow to maintain the decade-old
economic pillars that won Brazil its first ever investment-grade
rating in 2008: limiting the budget deficit, stemming inflation
and allowing a free-floating exchange rate. Since Lula took
office in 2003, the benchmark  Bovespa  index has surged five-fold
while the real strengthened 99 percent against the U.S. dollar.  
 Youngest Senator  
 Silva, who joined Lula’s Workers Party in 1985 and was
elected Brazil’s youngest-ever senator at the age of 36 in 1994,
said she’s the best qualified to build on the president’s legacy
for reducing poverty by 30 million people. A video on her
campaign website touts their  shared surname , which is common
among poorer Brazilians. The two aren’t related.  
 Even while praising Lula as a politician, Silva is critical
of some of his policies, especially those affecting the
environment.  
 “The biggest risk we run today is complacency,” Silva
told investors, including Citigroup Inc.’s former senior vice
chairman  William Rhodes , in New York today at an event sponsored
by Sao Paulo’s BM&F Bovespa SA.  
 “The growth rhythm we are experiencing today reflects the
effects of a cyclical recovery,” Silva said, adding that
government spending cuts and other reforms are needed to achieve
sustainable growth.  
 Environment Job  
 As environment minister, Silva fought for tighter controls
on a 656 billion-real ($368.4 billion)  infrastructure drive 
between 2007 and 2010 headed by Rousseff, said Claudio Langone,
who worked alongside her at the environment ministry for four
years.  
 Silva quit when Lula passed her over when seeking someone
to head the government’s Amazon taskforce, Langone said. Silva
entered politics fighting deforestation in the Amazon alongside
Chico Mendes, who was assassinated in 1988.  
 Among Silva’s targets in the campaign is the $11 billion
Belo Monte hydroelectric dam, which would be the world’s third-
biggest hydropower plant when it’s completed and would require
the flooding of a Chicago-sized swathe of Amazon rainforest.  
 Only two groups, both led by units of state-controlled
utility  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras  in Rio de Janeiro, bid
for the project in April after private-led consortiums dropped
out. Brazil’s state development bank known as BNDES said in
April it will finance as much as 80 percent of Belo Monte.  
 Avatar, Religion  
 “If I were in the government, I would have suspended the
auction,” said Silva, who in a  blog posting  wrote that she
identifies with the lean, forest-dwelling humanoids depicted in
Belo Monte opponent  James Cameron’s  sci-fi film “Avatar.”  
 While Silva, a born-again Christian who prays daily on the
campaign trail, said she’ll show “zero tolerance” with the
corruption practiced by Brazil’s two main political parties, she
isn’t positioning herself as a protest vote against the status
quo, according to Garman.  
 For her vice presidential running mate she chose  Guilherme Leal , founder and former co-chairman of Cajamar-based Natura
Cosmeticos SA, Brazil’s biggest cosmetics maker. Her main
economic adviser is  Eduardo Giannetti , who criticized excessive
government spending and lack of policy coordination with the
central bank in an  interview  last month with Rio de Janeiro’s O
Globo newspaper.  
 Silva’s stable 10 percent polling level makes it difficult
to know which candidate she will steal more votes from, or who
she would support in an eventual second round, said University
of Brasilia’s Fleischer.  
 “She has considerable problems with Dilma, because she was
her main adversary in Lula’s cabinet,” said Fleischer.
“Whether she would come around and support her in a second
round we are not sure.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net 
 Maria Luiza Rabello  in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        