-- Lula Subsidies Mean JBS Bond Yields Narrowest to Tyson Debt in Six Months
-- Boris Korby
-- 2010-07-22T22:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/lula-subsidies-mean-jbs-bond-yields-narrowest-to-tyson-debt-in-six-months.html

          
          
             Brazilian state financing to  JBS SA ,
the world’s largest beef producer, is driving the company’s
borrowing costs relative to  Tyson Foods Inc. , the biggest U.S.
meat producer, to the lowest level in six months.  
 The yield gap between JBS’s 11.625 percent notes due in
2014 and Tyson’s 10.5 percent bonds maturing the same year
narrowed to 183 basis points, or 1.83 percentage points, this
week, the smallest since Jan. 20, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The difference may narrow to about 100 basis points
in the next six to 12 months, said  Eric Ollom , chief emerging-
markets strategist with Jefferies & Co. in New York.  
 The state development bank, known as  BNDES , provided about
$2 billion of financing to Sao Paulo-based JBS this year,
helping pay for acquisitions including an $800 million purchase
of Pittsburg, Texas-based  Pilgrim’s Pride Co.  JBS posted a
first-quarter profit of 99.4 million reais ($56 million),
reversing a year-earlier net loss of 322.7 million reais, after
BNDES helped it finance  14 acquisitions  in four years.  
 “The support JBS has from BNDES is the best in Brazil, and
it improves the credit a lot,” said  Vinicius Pasquarelli , a
broker with Tradition Asiel Securities Inc. in New York.  
 The yield on JBS’s $700 million of 2014 bonds tumbled 87
basis points this month to 7.19 percent, the lowest since May,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Yields on Tyson’s $810 million
of notes dropped 55 basis points since the end of June.  
 Rating Upgrades  
 Fitch Ratings  raised  JBS to BB-, three levels below
investment grade, from B+ yesterday. Standard & Poor’s boosted
its rating on the company by two levels to BB last week, putting
it in line with Tyson. JBS’s 64 percent stake in poultry
producer  Pilgrim’s Pride  and its acquisition of Sao Paulo-based
meatpacker Bertin SA will bolster cash flow, S&P said in a
statement.  
 “The differential should be a lot less than where the
market spreads are,” Ollom said.  
 President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva orchestrated a 41
percent surge in BNDES lending in the first five months of the
year to a record 46 billion reais as he sought to strengthen the
country’s economic recovery. BNDES, based in Rio de Janeiro,
offers borrowers subsidized loans. Its key rate, known as  TJLP ,
is 6 percent, or 475 basis points below the central bank’s 10.75
percent benchmark lending rate.  
 Economic Growth  
 BNDES lending helped prevent a deeper economic slowdown
last year amid the global recession,  Ramiro Alves , a Finance
Ministry spokesman in Brasilia, said yesterday. The ministry
estimates that the economy would have shrunk 3 percent last year
-- instead of the 0.2 percent contraction it sustained --without
BNDES lending and the tax cuts the government implemented, Alves
said.  
 Gross domestic product expanded 9 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace since 1995.  
 BNDES bought 99.9 percent of JBS’s offering of $2 billion
mandatory-convertible debt offering, according to a Feb. 5
company filing. A BNDES spokesman declined to comment.  
 While spreads on JBS bonds have narrowed, the average yield
gap on Brazilian corporate dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries
climbed 107 basis points to 333 yesterday from a 2 1/2-year low
on April 5, according to JPMorgan’s  CEMBI index . It rose two
basis points yesterday.  
 The extra  yield  investors demand to hold Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. securities fell eight
basis points to 218 at 5:50 p.m. in New York, according to
JPMorgan.  
 Interest Rates  
 Yields on Brazil’s interest-rate futures contract due in
January fell nine basis points to 10.88 percent after a policy
meeting in which central bankers raised the benchmark overnight
rate 50 basis points from 10.25 percent. The real rose 1.3
percent to 1.7581 per dollar.  
 The cost of protecting Brazilian debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps dropped four basis
points to 120, according to data compiled by CMA DataVision.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  
 JBS’s acquisitions, financed by BNDES and a 1.6 billion
reais share sale in May, will add 3.3 billion reais of earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization to JBS’s
balance sheet, according to a July 21 report by Fitch. The
company’s net debt to EBITDA was 3.3 as of March 2010 and should
decline to 3 in 2011 because of rising earnings, Fitch said.  
 ‘Instrumental’  
 Tyson, based in Springdale, Arkansas, had net debt to
EBITDA of 1.3 at the end of the second quarter, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Gary Mickelson , a Tyson spokesman in Springdale, declined
to comment.  
 Marfrig Alimentos SA , Latin America’s second-largest beef
producer, said earlier this week that BNDES may buy all of the
2.5 billion reais of convertible bonds the company plans to sell
to finance acquisitions.  
 “It is the government’s support of the sector, through
BNDES that has been instrumental to the survival and growth of
the beef sector,” said  Esther Chan , who helps manage $5 billion
of emerging-market assets at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in
London. “With JBS, before investors were worried about their
ability to carry out the acquisitions in new markets and manage
the business effectively.”  
 JBS sold $700 million of bonds due in 2018 to yield 8.5
percent today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 Vanessa Esteves,  a spokeswoman for JBS in Sao Paulo,
declined to comment on the bond sale.  
 “JBS has the support from BNDES,” Pasquarelli said.
“They are going to continue to have this support.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in New York at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net 
 Boris Korby  in New York at 
 Bkorby1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     A cow sculpture sits in front of the JBS SA headquarters in Sao Paulo. Photographer: Paulo Fridman/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
