-- Human Growth Hormone Blood Tests to Begin on Minor League Baseball Players
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-07-22T22:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/human-growth-hormone-blood-tests-to-begin-on-minor-league-baseball-players.html

          
          
             Major League Baseball will
begin randomly giving blood tests to minor leaguers for
human growth hormone.  
 Beginning immediately, blood samples will be taken
from the non-dominant arm of randomly selected minor-league
players who are not on 40-man major league rosters, Major
League Baseball said today in a news release.  
 Blood testing of major leaguers can only be instituted
after collective bargaining by baseball and its players’
union. Minor-league players are not members of the Major
League Baseball Players Association and therefore must
follow the rules set down by Commissioner  Bud Selig .  
 “The implementation of blood testing in the minor
leagues represents a significant step in the detection of
the illegal use of human growth hormone,” Selig said in a
statement. “The minor-league program employs state of the
art testing procedures and the addition of HGH testing
provides an example for all of our drug policies in the
future.”  
 The players union has said the drug-testing program it
negotiated with the sport prohibits blood testing of major
leaguers because of its invasive nature, though it would
consider such a test for HGH if a scientifically validated
method was available.  
 “We have been engaged with the commissioner’s office
on this subject for several months, though they have not
shared with us the specifics behind their decision to begin
blood testing of minor leaguers,” MLBPA Executive Director
 Michael Weiner  said in a statement released today by the
union. “We look forward to further discussions with the
commissioner’s office on this important topic.”  
 Performance-Enhancing Drug  
 HGH is considered a performance-enhancing drug because
of its ability to grow muscle and aid recovery after
training. It is not detectable in urine, unlike anabolic
steroids.  
 Former major leaguer  Mark McGwire  admitted using HGH
for healing, and New York Yankees pitcher  Andy Pettitte 
told a U.S. congressional committee in December 2007 that
he and former major league pitcher  Roger Clemens  both used
the substance, an allegation Clemens has denied.  
 “This represents a major development in the detection
of a substance that has previously been undetectable and
been subject to abuse,” Gary Green, Major League
Baseball’s medical director, said in a statement. “The
combination of widespread availability and the lack of
detection have led to reports of use of this drug amongst
athletes.”  
 Used in Olympics  
 Blood tests for HGH have been used in the Olympics
since 2004. The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency is funding research
for a urine test that will detect the hormone.  
 National Football League spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in
a February e-mail that testing for HGH has “advanced to
the point that we are taking steps to incorporate it into
our program.”  
 Earlier in February, British rugby league player Terry
Newton became the first athlete to be sanctioned for using
HGH. He accepted a two-year ban from the U.K. Anti-Doping
authority after choosing not to contest a positive test
result for HGH.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        