-- UN Sees International Investment Flows Exceeding Pre-Crisis Peak by 2012
-- Bill Varner
-- 2010-07-22T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/un-sees-international-investment-flows-exceeding-pre-crisis-peak-by-2012.html

          
          
             International investment in Brazil,
China, India and Russia is leading a recovery of that barometer
of economic activity, which by 2012 will exceed the level seen
before the global financial crisis, the United Nations said.  
 “The gradual improvement of macroeconomic conditions,
corporate profits and stock market valuations observed in early
2010 is expected to continue, supporting renewed business
confidence,” the Geneva-based  UN Conference on Trade and
Development  said in its annual investment report issued today.  
 Foreign direct investment, which declined by 37 percent to
$1.11 trillion in 2009, is forecast to increase to $1.2 trillion
this year before rising as high as $1.5 trillion in 2011 and $2
trillion in 2012, the report said. The measure reached $1.77
trillion in 2008.  
 A 36 percent increase in cross-border mergers and
acquisitions in the first five months of 2010, compared to the
same period last year, signaled the incipient rebound. A
decrease in the value of mergers and acquisitions across borders
to $250 billion in 2009 from $707 billion in 2008 accounted for
most of the decline.  
 Foreign direct investment (FDI) includes investments by
foreign citizens in domestic companies and joint ventures
between foreign and domestic businesses.  
 “The relative weight of developing and transition
economies as both destinations and sources of global FDI is
expected to keep increasing,” the report said. “Flows to
developing and transition economies will not only be directed at
the most labor-intensive parts of the value chain, but
increasingly at more technology-intensive activities.”  
 Transition Economies  
 Developing nations have income much less than the major
industrialized countries, while those in transition are evolving
from a centrally-planned to a free market system, according to
the UN.  
 Among FDI recipients, China rose to second place behind the
U.S. last year. With Hong Kong fourth and Russia sixth, half of
the six top destinations for FDI are now developing or
transition economies. The U.S. was at $129.9 billion and China
at $95 billion.  
 The $787 billion U.S. stimulus package and similar spending
is also spurring FDI, with “no significant investment
protectionism observed so far,” the report said. “Global
initiatives, such as investment in agriculture, global financial
systems reform, and climate change are increasingly having a
direct impact” on boosting investment.  
 Global Growth  
 Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  cautioned in a preface to the
report that the global economy, expected by the UN to expand by
3 percent this year, “remains fragile, threatened by emerging
risks, constraints in public investment and other factors.”  
 The UN report also focuses on the potential for FDI flows
to low-carbon business areas, including renewable energy
sources, recycling and technology manufacturing. Those
businesses added $90 billion to FDI flows last year.  
 The UN urged developed nations and international financial
institutions to support further such investment, creation of a
global standard for corporate greenhouse-gas emission reporting,
and a “technical assistance center” to help developing nations
implement climate change mitigation strategies.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Varner  at the United Nations at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        