-- Hungary Survival Without IMF Support Is `a Myth,' Nomura's  Montalto Says
-- Agnes Lovasz
-- 2010-07-22T11:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/hungary-survival-without-imf-support-is-a-myth-nomura-s-montalto-says.html

          
          
             Hungary won’t be able to access
capital markets if it can’t reach agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union on the terms
of its bailout loan, Nomura International Plc said.  
 The IMF and EU on July 17 abandoned talks with Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government on a review of the 20 billion
euro ($26 billion) loan after failing to agree on fiscal targets
to comply with its terms. Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said
he expected a new loan agreement will “eventually” be reached.  
 Hungary’s assumption it can finance itself without the
IMF’s backing is “a myth” as risk aversion can rise anytime,
said  Peter Attard Montalto , a London-based emerging market
economist, in an e-mailed note today.  
 The country’s debt management agency has missed its sales
target at four bond auctions since June 3, when an official of
the ruling Fidesz party said Hungary had a “slim chance to
avoid a Greek situation.” The comments helped send the euro to
a four-year low against the dollar on concern Europe’s debt
crisis may be spreading.  
 “Hungary does need an extension,” of its IMF and EU
borrowing facilities, “even if it keeps the money for a rainy
day,” Montalto said. The view that “Hungary has access to
market sources, does not need help from the IMF in 2011, and has
a very comfortable rollover picture” is “a myth.”  
 Montalto suggests the comments “sound like Greece six
months ago.”  
 Failed Auctions  
 Greece is relying on a 110 billion-euro emergency-loan
package and quarterly reviews of its fiscal consolidation plans.
The government needs to cut its budget deficit to within the
EU’s 3 percent gross domestic product limit in 2014 from 13.6
percent last year.  
 Hungary’s failure to sell all the T-bills offered at this
week’s auction is “a worrying sign when yields on a country’s
three-month bills go up 25 basis points in a week and the debt
management agency revises its selling volume,” Montalto said.
“Even if it used IMF money held in foreign-exchange reserves it
would only last till the end of next year. Running down reserves
is not a sound policy.”  
 Investors have speculated the Hungarian government may be
delaying any announcement of further austerity measures until
after local-government elections in October. The forint, which
dropped 3.5 percent to a 15-month low the day after the talks
broke up, has gained 3 percent since on speculation Hungary will
reach a deal. The government expects an IMF-EU delegation to
return in September.  
 ‘Not Credible’  
 The view that “everything will be fine after the local
elections and Fidesz will do the hard work necessary to reach
the deficit targets,” is also a “myth,” according to Nomura.  
 An agreement would require “a significant shift on the
part of the government,” Nomura said. “Our understanding from
the lender missions is that the problems lie in the government’s
attitude to the talks and the substance of the policy proposed.
After the elections we doubt that the government will undergo
such a structural shift in its view on so many policies.”  
 After the talks broke down, Orban said Hungary will deliver
on its commitment to bring this year’s budget deficit to 3.8
percent of gross domestic product, adding that it’s within the
power of the government to decide on the means to achieve this
budget target.  
 “We do not view these forecasts as consistent or credible,
and think the government must be basing them on very strong
assumptions about revenues and the success rate of
implementation of plans already announced,” Montalto wrote.  
 Greater commitment to austerity after the elections will be
too late, according to Nomura.  
 The government “seems very much averse to implementing
further structural spending cuts, which the IMF judges are
necessary,” wrote Montalto. “Also, after the elections it will
be too late to adjust policy to meet this year’s targets and
very late in the budgetary process for next year.”  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Agnes Lovasz  in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hungary's Prime minister Viktor Orban. Photographer: Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
