-- Hungarian Lawmakers Approve `Brutal' Bank Tax Defying IMF, EU Criticism
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-22T18:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/hungarian-lawmakers-to-approve-brutal-bank-tax-in-defiance-of-imf-eu.html

          
          
             Hungarian lawmakers approved a bank
tax three times larger than levies proposed elsewhere in Europe,
defying criticism from international institutions.  
 Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  anchored his plan to meet this
year’s budget  deficit  target on the tax, drawing the ire of the
European Banking Federation and lenders such as UniCredit SpA of
Milan and Erste Group Bank AG of Vienna, which own local banks.
Hungary’s parliament, where Orban’s party has a two-thirds
majority, passed the bill today by a vote of 301 to 12 with one
abstention.  
 “It is unacceptable, with common sense, to respect banks
as sacred cows at a time when a global crisis that started from
the banks happens to be sweeping over the world,” Orban told
lawmakers today in Budapest. “The bank tax is necessary, fair
and effective, because it serves the interests of the country
and the people in a very difficult situation.”  
 The vote came five days after the International Monetary
Fund and European Union suspended their review of Hungary’s 20
billion-euro ($25.8 billion) emergency bailout without backing
the government’s budget plans. The IMF said a number of issues
remained unresolved, including the bank tax, which would
“adversely affect lending and growth.”  
 The forint, the world’s worst-performing currency against
the euro in the past three months, fell 2.9 percent July 19, the
first trading day after the talks broke down. It rose to 283.46
as of 8:41 p.m. in Budapest from 284.54 late yesterday.  
 ‘Credibility Slippage’  
 “We are likely to see further credibility slippage” as a
result of the bank levy,  Peter Attard Montalto , an analyst at
Nomura International Plc in London, said yesterday in a note to
clients.  
 The bank tax is part of Orban’s 29-point program, announced
on June 8, which includes spending cuts, reductions in corporate
and personal income taxes and limits on the pay of public
workers, including central bank President  Andras Simor .  
 Hungary seeks to raise 187 billion forint ($837 million)
through the tax on banks, insurers and other financial-services
companies to meet the deficit target. The government, which
failed to agree with lenders on terms of the tax, plans to keep
it in place for three years.  
 The tax will be levied at 0.5 percent of banks’ assets over
50 billion forint at the end of 2009 after the government raised
it from an originally planned 0.45 percent with an amendment
today. That compares with the U.S. plan for a 0.15 percent tax
on liabilities and the U.K.’s proposed levy on balance sheets
that would peak at 0.07 percent.  
 ‘Large Negative Effect’  
 “The bank tax, which is three times larger than any other
similar tax planned in Europe, could have a large negative
effect on the economy and it will not solve Hungary’s fiscal
problems,”  Christoph Rosenberg , head of the IMF’s mission to
Hungary, said in a July 18 interview. The IMF would like to see
“durable and non-distortive measures.”  
 The government, which faces local elections Oct. 3, has
rejected imposing further austerity measures to narrow the
deficit.  
 Hungary’s plan for the “brutal” tax “caused a storm in
the global business community,” Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said in a July 2 interview. “There’s fear that if
Hungary introduced a bank tax of this magnitude, Germany,
France, the U.K., Romania and Slovakia will follow suit.”  
 OTP, Erste, Raiffeisen  
 The tax will cost Budapest-based  OTP Bank Nyrt ., Hungary’s
largest bank, as much as 35 billion forint in the first year,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Sandor Csanyi  told the Wall
Street Journal on July 19, before today’s amendment raised the
rate. That’s equivalent to 18.5 percent of the bank’s average
annual net income over the past five years.  
 Erste would have to pay about 40 million euros, and Vienna-
based Raiffeisen International Bank-Holding AG about 35 million
euros, the two banks told Bloomberg, based on the 0.45 percent
tax rate.  
 OTP has underperformed European peers since the tax was
announced June 8, gaining 3.7 percent compared with a 12 percent
increase in the 54-member Bloomberg Europe Banks & Financial
Services Index.  
 The European Banking Federation called for “profound
modification” of the tax, saying the “discriminative” levy
would cause losses at some lenders and hamper economic growth.
The Hungarian central bank said the tax would hurt growth
prospects “considerably” by stifling lending.  
 ‘Cause for Concern’  
 “It is a cause for concern if measures taken in order to
restore fiscal discipline help raise other macroeconomic
risks,” the  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  said July 5.  
 Banks in Hungary required less government aid during the
global financial crisis than those in some other EU countries.  
 OTP in March repaid the last of the 400 billion forint
($1.8 billion) government loan it received in 2009. By
comparison, U.K. taxpayers pumped 45.5 billion pounds ($69.4
billion) into Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which is now 83
percent-owned by the state.  
 “This can create further market turmoil,”  Diana Gesheva ,
an economist at 4cast Ltd. in London, said yesterday in an e-
mailed note about the bank tax.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        