-- Hungary Wants to Restore `Economic Self Rule' After IMF Spat, Orban Says
-- Edith Balazs
-- 2010-07-22T15:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/hungary-wants-to-restore-economic-self-rule-after-imf-spat-orban-says.html

          
          
             Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor
Orban said the country must “restore its economic self rule”
and focus on growth after his administration failed to satisfy
international lenders it’s committed to sustainable budget cuts.  
 “I suggest to study and explain our relationship with
international financial institutions from a new perspective,”
Orban told lawmakers in Budapest today. “We want to restore the
lost economic self rule of Hungary, because there is no economic
growth without” it.  
 The International Monetary Fund and the European Union five
days ago suspended their review of Hungary’s 20 billion-euro
($25.8 billion) emergency bailout without backing the
government’s budget plans. The issues remaining are “not
insurmountable” and the government should work toward solving
them, said  Christoph Rosenberg , who led the Washington-based
lender’s delegation.  
 Hungary’s only obligation toward the IMF is to keep its
 budget deficit  within 3.8 percent of gross domestic product this
year, a target the government “must” achieve, Orban said,
adding there are several challenges to meeting that target.  
 “There are some problems that remain, but they are not
insurmountable,” Rosenberg said in a phone interview. “Whether
or not we have these issues in a program, these issues won’t go
away. Hungary has to solve these problems with us or without us,
has to narrow its budget deficit with us or without us.”  
 The forint, the world’s worst-performing currency with a
6.7 percent decline against the euro in the past three months,
traded at 284 per euro at 4:49 p.m. in Budapest from 285.68 late
yesterday.  
 ‘Slim Chance’  
 Hungary has only a “slim chance” of reaching an agreement
with the IMF unless the government shows a “radical change” in
its attitude toward fiscal reform and central bank independence,
Dow Jones reported today, citing Iryna Ivaschenko, the
Washington-based lender’s representative in Hungary.  
 Hungary will discuss a “potential” standby agreement with
the IMF for 2011 when the lender’s mission returns to Budapest
in the autumn, the Economy Ministry said today. The government
will negotiate with the EU on how it plans to reduce the budget
deficit to below 3 percent of gross domestic product, the
ministry said in e-mailed answers to Bloomberg questions.  
 Hungary won’t be able to access capital markets if it can’t
reach agreement with the  IMF  and the EU on the terms of its
bailout loan, Nomura International Plc said.  
 ‘A Myth’  
 The assumption that the country can finance itself without
the IMF’s backing is “a myth” as risk aversion can rise
anytime, said  Peter Attard Montalto , a London-based emerging
market economist, in an e-mailed note today.  
 The country’s debt management agency has missed its sales
target at four bond auctions since June 3, when an official of
the ruling Fidesz party said Hungary had a “slim chance to
avoid a Greek situation.” The comments helped send the euro to
a four-year low against the dollar on concern Europe’s debt
crisis may be spreading.  
 “Hungary does need an extension,” of its IMF and EU
borrowing facilities, “even if it keeps the money for a rainy
day,” Montalto said. The view that “Hungary has access to
market sources, does not need help from the IMF in 2011, and has
a very comfortable rollover picture” is “a myth.”  
 Montalto said the comments “sound like Greece six months
ago.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Balazs Penz  in Budapest at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Hungary's Prime minister Viktor Orban. Photographer: Balint Porneczi/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
