-- United Nations Proposes Stopgaps as Global Talks Fail to Renew Kyoto Pact
-- Mathew Carr
-- 2010-07-22T11:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/united-nations-proposes-stopgaps-as-global-talks-fail-to-renew-kyoto-pact.html

          
          
             A United Nations climate group said
it may be possible to extend emission caps included in the Kyoto
Protocol for two years after they expire in 2012, preventing an
interruption in the supply of offset credits.  
 Extending the targets may help stop a “gap” in the
Clean Development Mechanism, the world’s second-biggest carbon
market, should nations fail to agree on a treaty to replace or
permanently extend the 1997 protocol, a committee for developed
nations said in a  July 20 discussion paper  on the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change website.  
 UN talks in Copenhagen last December failed as developing
nations called for richer countries to adopt tighter targets on
the greenhouse gases blamed for global warming. India’s
Environment Minister  Jairam Ramesh  said last month that nations
are unlikely to agree on a global climate accord at this year’s
talks in Cancun, Mexico.  
 “Extending Kyoto for two more years seems unlikely at this
stage,” said  David Lunsford , emissions trading policy leader at
the Geneva-based International Emissions Trading Association, a
lobby group. “Nations haven’t even started to grapple with what
targets might be feasible for such an uncharted period,” he
said today by phone and e-mail.  
 The treaty’s first restrictions on greenhouse gases are for
the five years starting in 2008. Under one interpretation of
climate laws, a failure to extend or replace Kyoto would prevent
validation and registration of CDM projects, the paper said.  
 Interruption  
 “Emission reductions or removals that occurred after the
first commitment period could not be verified, and corresponding
Certified Emission Reductions could not be issued,” according
to the paper. Developed nations can create emission offsets by
investing in projects that curb greenhouse gases in poorer
nations. Those credits can be used for compliance in the
European Union program, the world’s biggest emissions market.  
 Global climate talks are seeking a second set of emission
targets through 2017 or 2020, or potentially a program of
coordinated national policies for climate protection.  
 “Support for the Kyoto structure has waned over recent
years since adoption, making it unclear if an extension would
receive necessary support,” Lunsford said.  
 UN CERs for December fell 0.8 percent to 11.78 euros
($15.11) on the European Climate Exchange in London at 10:14
a.m. local time. They’ve jumped 7.3 percent in the year to date,
compared with 11.3 percent for EU permits.  
 The value of trading in UN offsets fell 38 percent last
year to $20.6 billion as prices dropped and the number of
credits being sold for time fell 48 percent, according to World
Bank figures published in May.  
 ‘Carbon in Limbo’  
 “For markets to play a role in pricing, supply and demand
should form a key pillar of the next climate agreement,”
Lunsford said. “An unresolved Kyoto gap could put global supply
and demand for carbon in limbo for some time,” he said.
“Intermittent international policy would create an unhealthy
investment environment for global emission reductions.”  
 The UN is also considering “provisional” amendments to
the protocol to fill the potential supply gap, as well as “opt
in” procedures for nations where they wouldn’t be “bound by
the amendment unless it undertakes a ratification procedure,”
according to the UN discussion paper.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mathew Carr  in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        