-- University of Virginia Build America Is First 30-Year Sold Below 5% Yield
-- Brendan A. McGrail
-- 2010-07-22T14:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/university-of-virginia-build-america-is-first-30-year-sold-below-5-yield.html

          
          
             Top-rated University of Virginia
sold $190 million of 30-year Build America Bonds yesterday to
yield 4.9 percent, the lowest on record for that maturity,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  
 The university, founded by  Thomas Jefferson  in 1819, became
the first borrower to offer a 30-year Build America Bond with a
5 percent coupon since the federal government created the
subsidized taxable municipal securities last year, Bloomberg
data show. The previous low was 5.14 percent in a  Washington
state  issue sold in May, Bloomberg data show.  
 “Something like Virginia is going to get prime
attention,” said  Alan Schankel , director of fixed-income
research at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.
“People have been waiting for real high-grade names.”  
 The average Build America Bond yielded 5.94 percent
yesterday, according to an  index  that  Wells Fargo & Co.  began
last August. The so-called  spread above 30-year U.S. Treasuries 
reached 203 basis points as the borrowing costs for federal
government debt fell amid signs the economy is slowing,
Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  
 Since they were created as part of last year’s $862 billion
economic-stimulus package, states, local governments and public
agencies have sold about $121 billion of the securities. The
U.S. Treasury pays issuers 35 percent of their interest costs if
states and other public borrowers sell taxable instead of tax-
exempt securities for new capital projects. Private nonprofits
such as Harvard University don’t qualify. The program expires at
year-end.  
 ‘Quality Bond’  
 “I am very pleased with the outcome,”  Yoke San Reynolds ,
the University of Virginia’s chief financial officer, said
yesterday in a telephone interview after the school’s bonds were
sold through competitive bidding. “We do not issue very often
and we are a ‘triple-A.’ We are a quality bond.”  
 The university was the first to sell Build America Bonds,
offering $250 million of the securities maturing in 30 years on
April 15 last year at a yield of 6.22 percent, about 256 basis
points more than comparable Treasuries, according to Bloomberg
data. The yield for yesterday’s issue was about 95 basis points
higher than the 30-year Treasury rate.  
 Proceeds  will be used to finance capital projects at the
campus in Charlottesville as well as at the university medical
facility, including the  Emily Couric Cancer Center , named after
the late Virginia state senator and sister of “CBS Evening
News” anchor  Katie Couric , according to the bond prospectus.  
 ‘Ambitious Program’  
 The university has an “ambitious capital program” with
plans to spend $576 million on projects during the “next
several years,” adding another $160 million of debt by the end
of fiscal 2012, according to a report from Moody’s Investors
Service.  
 Reynolds said subsidies from the Build America program
saved capital projects that would have otherwise been canceled
or postponed after the university’s  endowment  fell 21 percent in
the 2009 fiscal year to about $3.6 billion, according to a
report from the National Association of College and University
Business Officers. Schools such as Harvard and Yale scaled back
their capital spending.  
 Yields on top-rated, tax-exempt general obligations fell 2
basis points yesterday to an average of  2.86 percent , the lowest
in at least nine-and-a-half years, according to Municipal Market
Advisors data since January 2001. The securities have not had an
increase in yields since June 15.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 Mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        