-- Muralitharan Takes Record 800th Wicket in Final Cricket Test for Sri Lanka
-- Anusha Ondaatjie
-- 2010-07-22T13:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/muralitharan-becomes-first-player-to-take-800-wickets-in-test-cricket.html

          
          
             Sri Lanka spinner  Muttiah Muralitharan  became the first cricketer to take 800 Test
wickets, extending his record tally in his final match before
quitting the elite format of the game.  
 Muralitharan was hoisted aloft by his teammates at Galle
stadium after Indian batsman Pragyan Ojha was caught from
Muralitharan’s final ball of his 18-year Test career. Sri Lanka
went on to win by 10 wickets.  
 The 38-year-old has taken the 800  wickets  in 133 Test
matches and 515 wickets in 337 one-day internationals, also the
highest tally. He broke the record of 502 one-day wickets held
by  Wasim Akram  last year and eclipsed  Shane Warne ’s mark of 708
Test wickets in 2007.  
 Sri Lankan President  Mahinda Rajapaksa  presented
Muralitharan with an award on the pitch before the spinner took
his last wicket. Sri Lanka’s most successful sportsman helped
the island nation win the cricket World Cup in 1996 and used his
celebrity status to galvanize reconstruction efforts following
the devastating tsunami that killed 30,000 people in 2004.  
 “It is a fitting way for an all-time cricketing great to
exit the game at his peak,” said  Rajendra Theagarajah , chief
executive officer of Hatton National Bank Plc, Sri Lanka’s
second-biggest non-state lender by assets. “Today is a proud
day for every Sri Lankan -- his contribution has not just been
numbers, he has built a profile for the country and put Sri
Lanka on the map.”  
 Test Debut  
 Muralitharan, who varies conventional off-spin with balls
that slide straight on and so-called doosras which turn the
other way, has averaged six wickets per Test. A native of the
hill station town of Kandy, his 67 five-wicket hauls in an
innings are a record, as is his tally of taking 10 wickets in a
match on 22 occasions.  
 Since making his Test debut in 1992, his action has
prompted accusations of throwing from match officials. He’s been
cited three times by umpires, only to be cleared of bowling
illegally on each occasion after undergoing laboratory analysis.  
 Another incident in March 2004 forced cricket lawmakers to
review their approach to throwing in international matches,
culminating in a relaxation of the rules to allow all bowlers a
greater degree of arm straightening in their delivery.  
 Muralitharan got the eight wickets he needed in the match
against India to reach the 800 mark. His team totaled 520, and
India replied with 276 and 338 after the follow-on was enforced.  
 Sri Lanka then reached 96 for no loss to clinch victory on
day five. It was the first match of a three-Test series.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Muralitharan record 800th wicket in final cricket test  
                       
                         
                           Lakruwan Wanniarachchi/AFP/Getty Images 
                         
                         Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan delivers a ball during the fifth day of the first Test match between Sri Lanka and India at The Galle International Cricket Stadium. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan delivers a ball during the fifth day of the first Test match between Sri Lanka and India at The Galle International Cricket Stadium. Photographer: Lakruwan Wanniarachchi/AFP/Getty Images  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
