-- Turkey's Delay of Spending Law Threatens Foreign Investment, Group Says
-- Ali Berat Meric
-- 2010-07-22T11:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/turkey-s-delay-of-spending-law-threatens-foreign-investment-group-says.html

          
          
             The Turkish government’s delay of
legislation to limit public spending is jeopardizing  long-term
foreign investment , a business group said.  
 Foreign direct  investment  is already declining and may drop
to $5 billion this year from $7.6 billion in 2009, the
International Investors’ Association, which represents foreign
companies operating in Turkey, said today. The postponement of
debate on the so-called fiscal rule may deter foreign investors
from buying Turkish companies or building factories, Adnan Nas,
deputy head of the Istanbul-based association, told reporters.  
 Credit-rating companies including Moody’s Investors Service
say passing and implementing the fiscal rule will help Turkey
move toward an investment-grade rating. The bill requires the
government to target a  budget deficit  of 1 percent of gross
domestic product to reduce debt relative to the economy’s size.  
 The measure won’t be approved in the session of parliament
that ends this week “because there isn’t time,” Finance Minister
 Mehmet Simsek  said July 16. There’s no fixed schedule for
pushing the law through parliament when it gathers again in
October,  Nurettin Canikli , a senior lawmaker from the ruling
party, said today.  
 The rule will play a “critical role” in building
confidence in Turkey’s economy and fiscal discipline, central
bank Governor  Durmus Yilmaz  said in Konya today.  
 IMF Talks  
 Turkey broke off talks on new loans from the International
Monetary Fund in March, saying its economy is ready to stand
alone. Deputy Prime Minister  Ali Babacan  announced the details
of the proposed rule in a May 11 news conference, saying it
would bring a “new era” of credibility to Turkish policy
making. He said it would be approved in June.  
 The government still aims to approve the law “but we have
no pledge to pass it on this date or that date,” Canikli, a
leader of the ruling Justice and Development Party’s group in
parliament, said in an interview with CNBC-e television today.
The government’s three-year economic plans mean that the rule
“wouldn’t add anything until 2012 anyway,” Canikli said.
“Markets have not reacted significantly to the fact that the
fiscal rule wasn’t passed.”  
 Turkey’s  main share index  rose to a record 60,112.01 today.  
 In the first five months of this year, Turkey drew $2.7
billion in direct investment from abroad, 37 percent less than
the same period of 2009, the association said today.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ercan Ersoy  in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
 Ali Berat Meric  in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        