-- Urwin Says BlackRock Still Wary of Europe Bonds; Fink Says Shorts Unwound
-- Anchalee Worrachate
-- 2010-07-22T16:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/urwin-says-blackrock-still-wary-of-europe-bonds-fink-says-shorts-unwound.html

          
          
             BlackRock Inc. ’s Richard Urwin said
the world’s largest asset manager is wary of European debt
“over time,” a day after Chief Executive Officer  Laurence D. Fink  said the firm unwound bets against the bonds.  
 Urwin, head of investment at BlackRock’s Fiduciary Mandate
Investment Team, said solvency is still a “real concern” for
some euro nations and investors should diversify into corporate
debt over the long run. While demand from pension funds, banks
and savers may support bonds from nations such as  Greece  and
Spain in the short term, there are longer-term risks of
“draconian” budget cuts hurting economic growth, he said.  
 “We expect bond prices to fall at some point, either
because of the cyclical recovery becoming more firmly
entrenched, or because private-sector lenders are going to
demand more of a risk premium to invest in government bonds,”
Urwin, who is based in London, wrote in an e-mailed note. “Over
the short term, we think the factors supporting government bonds
outweigh the challenges.”  
 Fink said yesterday that Blackrock, which manages more than
$3 trillion, is holding European debt again after betting
against it in early June, before concern about whether nations
such as Greece and Spain would be able to finance their debts
had eased.  
 “If we continue to see calmness in Europe between now and
the end of summer, where unrest generally is the most
pronounced, I think we will have a significant rally in the
sovereign credits and in the European markets,” Fink said in an
interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker .  
 Debt Crisis  
 Europe’s debt crisis was triggered after Greece’s new
government took power last year and said the deficit was more
than 12 percent of GDP, twice the previous government’s
estimate. That sparked a surge in bond yields as Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s credit
rankings to below investment grade.  
 Borrowing costs among the euro-region’s high-deficit
nations, as indicated by  yields  of government securities at
auction, have dropped from their peaks in May after the EU
devised a financial backstop in return for government-austerity
measures.  
 “Over time, countries like Greece could find it harder to
push through extreme fiscal tightening,” Urwin said. “To avoid
putting all their fixed income eggs in one basket, European
investors should consider diversifying their portfolios with
investment grade corporate debt, selective investments in high-
yield corporate debt, and emerging-market government bonds.”  
 Benchmark German bonds returned 6.57 percent this year,
outperforming U.S. Treasuries which gave investors a 6.48
percent gains during the same period, according to indexes
complied by Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        