-- Virgin America Orders 40 Airbus Jets as Fleet Doubles
-- Mary Jane Credeur
-- 2010-07-22T15:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/virgin-america-orders-40-airbus-a320s-as-service-added-from-california-hub.html

          
          
             Virgin America Inc. agreed to buy 40
Airbus SAS A320 jets, a $3.26 billion purchase at list prices
that will more than double its fleet, as the low-fare carrier
adds destinations.  
 The new planes will be delivered from 2013 through 2016,
with options for 20 more aircraft, according to the closely held
airline, which is part-owned by U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson . Virgin America announced the order today at the
Farnborough Air Show near London.  
 Adding jets will support an expansion push that Chief
Executive Officer  David Cush  said includes serving about three
new cities a year through 2016. The Burlingame, California-based
airline plans to begin flights by year’s end from its hometown
hub in San Francisco to Cancun and San Jose del Cabo, Mexico.  
 “My expectation is that within the next 30 days we’ll
announce another route that we’ll start flying before the end of
the year, and that’ll definitely be a major business route,”
Cush said today in an interview at the show. Places under study
include Chicago, Dallas and Austin, Texas, he has said.  
 Virgin America now has 28 planes, all from Toulouse,
France-based Airbus.  
 The airline would like Airbus to add new engines to its
A320 family of aircraft, and would be “first in line” to buy
such jets, Cush said. Airbus and Boeing have told airlines they
may put new more-efficient engines on current models of jets. So
far, neither planemaker has committed.  
 Virgin America’s planes will have fuel-saving “sharklet”
wings that reduce fuel use by about 3.5 percent, the airline
said.  
 Airbus’s list price for the twin-engine, single-aisle A320
is $81.4 million, according to a company fact sheet. Airlines
typically receive discounts from planemakers’ published figures.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Rothman  in Farnborough, England, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        