-- Vodacom Customer Numbers Fall 8.7% After Change to Disconnection Policies
-- Nicky Smith
-- 2010-07-22T15:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/vodacom-customer-numbers-fall-8-7-after-change-to-disconnection-policies.html

          
          
             Vodacom Group Ltd. , the South
African mobile-phone operator owned by  Vodafone Group Plc , said
the number of subscribers fell 8.7 percent after it changed its
disconnection policy and registration laws slowed additions.  
 The customer tally declined to 37.7 million in the three
months ended June 30, the Johannesburg-based  company  said today
in a statement. Revenue rose 0.7 percent to 14.4 billion rand
($1.9 billion) from a year earlier, it said.  
 In South Africa, which accounts for 87 percent of sales,
Vodacom lost 3.1 million customers primarily because the company
shortened the length of time it allows SIM cards to forward
calls before disconnection, to seven months from 13 months.  
 New South African laws that require mobile operators to
register SIM cards with proof of identity and residential
address for customers buying air time also hurt growth. A cut in
termination rates, the fees operators charge to carry each
other’s traffic, reduced Vodacom’s revenue by 393 million rand.  
 Sales from international operations declined 14.5 percent
as the company added more low-paying customers, mostly in
Tanzania, where subscribers climbed to 8 million from 5.9
million a year earlier, the company said.  
 Vodacom declined 1.1 percent to 62.10 rand at the 5p.m.
close in Johannesburg, paring the stock’s gain this year to 9.9
percent.  
 World Cup Promotions  
 Visitors to South Africa for the FIFA World Cup soccer
tournament boosted Vodacom sales by as much as 50 million rand,
Chief Executive Officer  Pieter Uys  said on a conference call.  
 Vodacom may have lost some market share to MTN Group Ltd.
during the event as Vodacom chose to save promotions for other
projects rather than spend amid so much “noise” from
competitors, the CEO said.  
 “We have come back and we have launched a new TV
advertising campaign and value offers,” Uys said.  
 South Africa’s mobile operators, which include  MTN  and Cell
C Ltd., have lobbied the government to extend a Dec. 31 deadline
to register mobile-phone users, Uys said. The government has
agreed to meet with operators to discuss the matter, he said.  
 Vodacom has registered about 15 million of its customers
since new information laws came into effect in July 2009, the
CEO said. Registering the remainder will take longer than the
time permitted, he said. Companies must disconnect unregistered
subscribers on Jan. 1 unless the deadline is changed.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        