-- Volvo Reports Second Quarterly Profit as Truck Demand Recovers
-- Ola Kinnander
-- 2010-07-22T07:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/volvo-reports-second-straight-quarterly-profit-as-truck-demand-recovers.html

          
          
             Volvo AB , the world’s second-largest
truckmaker, reported a second straight quarterly profit and beat
analyst’s estimates as demand for trucks and construction
equipment recovered.  
 Second-quarter  net income  was 3.15 billion kronor ($430
million) compared with a loss of 5.57 billion kronor a year
earlier, the Gothenburg, Sweden-based company said today. Profit
exceeded the 2.32 billion-krona estimate of 11  analysts  surveyed
by Bloomberg.  
 Volvo is benefitting from rebounding heavy truck demand in
Europe and North America. The company today maintained its
forecast that the market for heavy trucks sold in Europe will
grow 10 percent in 2010 and as much as 30 percent in North
America.  Volvo  has also boosted profit by cutting thousands of
jobs after demand plummeted during the financial crisis.  
 “Volvo is a bit on the conservative side,” said  Morten Imsgard  an analyst at Sydbank A/S in Aabenraa, Denmark, with an
“overweight” rating on Volvo, in explaining why the company
didn’t raise its industry forecasts. “The North American market
has been very depressed for years and now they’re only starting
to see a pickup in the order situation. It might be too early to
raise the estimates for this year.”  
 Volvo was up 0.45 krona, 0.5 percent, to 90.30 kronor as of
9:40 a.m. in Stockholm trading. The shares have advanced 47
percent this year, valuing the truckmaker at 190 billion kronor.  
 Second-quarter  revenue  rose 27 percent to 68.7 billion
kronor, Volvo said. Sales exceeded the 65.5 billion kronor
average forecast by 18 analysts. Volvo’s second-quarter truck
orders surged 82 percent to 48,418 vehicles.  
 ‘Moderate’ Recovery  
 “In the near term, we will focus on ensuring that planned
production increases in most of our manufacturing facilities run
as efficiently as possible,” Chief Executive Officer  Leif Johansson  said in the statement. “The pace in the recovery in
demand has been rather moderate, which is positive as it gives
us a good opportunity to continue with the activities that
contribute to further increasing productivity and efficiency.”  
 The  construction equipment unit , Volvo’s second-biggest
division, reported second-quarter operating profit of 2.1
billion kronor from a loss of 1.26 billion kronor a year
earlier. The division’s sales gained 67 percent to 15.3 billion
kronor.  
 The supplier of excavators, wheel loaders and road-building
machinery, benefiting from increased demand in Brazil, Russia,
India and China, raised its outlook for the unit.  
 Forecast Raised  
 European demand is expected to grow 10 percent this year,
up from the previous  forecast  of between zero and 10 percent.
The North American construction equipment market is likely to
grow 5 percent to 10 percent, up from the previous forecast of
zero to 10 percent, Volvo said.  
 Volvo returned to profit in the first quarter, after five
consecutive losses totaling 16.1 billion kronor, lifted by the
cost cuts and demand recovery.  
 Volvo is first among Europe’s biggest truckmakers to report
quarterly earnings. Swedish rival  Scania AB  is scheduled to
release results tomorrow and MAN AG will report results July 29.  
 Daimler AG , the world’s largest truckmaker, said last week
it would raise its full-year forecast on a surge in demand at
the truck unit and Mercedes-Benz cars. The truck division posted
a second-quarter operating profit of 300 million euros ($385
million) compared with a loss of 604 million eurs a year
earlier, said the German company, which will report detailed
earnings July 27.  
 To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Ola Kinnander  in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Volvo AB CEO Leif Johansson. Photographer: Nelson Ching/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Volvo is benefitting from rebounding heavy truck markets in Europe and North America. Source: Volvo via Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
