-- Wal-Mart Shifts Focus to Sales From Margins, Researcher Says
-- Matthew Boyle
-- 2010-07-22T16:05:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/wal-mart-shifting-focus-to-sales-from-margins-cleveland-research-says.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ’s new U.S.
stores chief is shifting away from widening profit margins
through inventory reductions to focus on sales growth, according
to Cleveland Research Co.  
 Bill Simon is bringing back promotional displays at the
front of stores, returning more items that were removed and
dialing back price cuts,  Jeff Stinson , an analyst at the
Cleveland-based equity researcher, said in a report this week.
Simon, Wal-Mart’s former U.S. operations chief, replaced  Eduardo Castro-Wright  last month.  
 “We are seeing the ‘old’  Wal-Mart  approach surface on
merchandising as well as pricing,” Stinson said. “Rebuilding
top-line sales looks to be the No. 1 objective.”  
 Sales at U.S. stores open at least a year have fallen for
four consecutive  quarters  after the removal of grocery products
and increases in gasoline prices, putting pressure on Simon to
lure back shoppers. Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer,
faces increasing competition from big-box rivals such as  Target
Corp.  and discounters such as  Dollar General Corp.   
 Wal-Mart spokesman Greg Rossiter declined to make Simon
available for an interview or to discuss any changes Simon is
making.  
 Wal-Mart rose 62 cents to $50.97 at 11:35 a.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite  trading . Before today, the shares had
gained 1.6 percent since June 28, the day before Wal-Mart
announced that Simon would take over the U.S. stores.  
 The comparable sales declines are particularly worrying to
some  shareholders  as the rest of the industry shows improvement,
according to  David Abella , a portfolio manager at Rochdale
Investment Management in New York. His firm manages $2.9 billion
including Wal-Mart and Target shares.  
 Frustrating Experience  
 “If I go to Wal-Mart, I expect to find almost anything,”
Abella said. “Reducing inventory makes things leaner and meaner,
but it’s also very frustrating when a big box does not have what
you want.”  
 This year, Wal-Mart returned about 300 items to shelves
after initially pulling them, Simon said at a March investor
conference, when he was still the operations chief.  Leon Nicholas , a director at consulting firm Kantar Retail who’s
based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, said Wal-Mart has returned
thousands more since then.  
 “We assume they’ve brought back 3,000,” he said in a
telephone interview. Some of the returning products have tags
attached on the shelf saying, “Look What’s Back.”  
 Simon’s strategy is a departure from that of  John Fleming ,
the U.S. merchandising chief who is leaving Aug. 1. Fleming was
an architect of Wal-Mart’s so-called Win/Play/Show strategy,
where products with the best growth and profit prospects got
premium shelf space.  
 Adding Back Items  
 In the past two years, Wal-Mart has removed items in
slower-growth “show” sectors like tools, and bulked up “win”
categories like consumer electronics and pet products, aiming to
reduce inventory and expand  profit margins . In the year ending
Jan. 31, inventory declined by $1.8 billion in the U.S. Company-
wide gross margin, the percentage of sales left after the cost
of goods sold, widened to 24.8 percent from 24.2 percent.  
 That strategy appears to be over, according to analysts
such as Cleveland Research’s Stinson and  David Palmer  at UBS
Securities LLC. Instead the retailer is renewing its focus at
some stores on “Action Alley,” the high-traffic area in front
near the checkouts, which had earlier been cleared out to reduce
clutter.  
 “The quickest change we have seen over the last couple
weeks is that pallets are returning to Action Alley,” according
to the Cleveland report. “Overall inventory is beginning to
ramp back up as quickly as possible.”  
 ‘3 in 30’  
 The report cites an objective to get Wal-Mart’s
merchandising strategy back to where it was three years ago in
30 days. The initiative has been dubbed “3 in 30.”  
 Wal-Mart has not changed the  forecast , made in May, that
same-store sales for U.S. locations will range from negative 2
percent to positive 1 percent this quarter.  
 This year, the retailer has lowered prices on ketchup from
 H.J. Heinz Co.  and  Procter & Gamble Co.’s  Crest toothpaste in
so-called rollbacks aimed at driving sales growth. Those cuts
went too deep and failed to boost sales enough, and Wal-Mart has
since raised prices on some items, Stinson said.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Products sit on display inside a Wal-Mart store in Kearny, New Jersey. Photographer: Daniel Acker/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
