-- Wal-Mart May Open Hundreds of India Stores if Foreign Restrictions Lifted
-- Saikat Chatterjee
-- 2010-07-22T10:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/wal-mart-s-indian-partner-bharti-plans-to-open-140-retail-stores-this-year.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  may open
hundreds of stores in India, the world’s second-most populous
nation, should the government lift a ban on foreign direct
investment in multi-brand retailers.  
 “If the laws of the country change to opening up to
foreign direct investment in retailing we could open hundreds of
stores,”  Raj Jain , managing director of Bharti-Walmart Pvt., a
wholesale joint venture between Wal-Mart and India’s Bharti
Enterprises Pvt., told reporters in New Delhi today.  
 Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, and rivals
including  Carrefour SA  are urging India’s government to allow
overseas investment after the trade ministry invited views from
the industry on removing the restriction. Ending the ban will
increase investment in farming and reduce prices, according to a
discussion paper from the ministry.  
 “Ideally we would like no cap on foreign direct investment
but the fact of the matter is that the government has other
compulsions and would like to take a calibrated approach,” Jain
said. “We fully support it.”  
 Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart runs two wholesale
stores in India as local laws, aimed at protecting owners of
smaller shops, limit overseas companies to operating single-
brand stores, or wholesale outlets.  
 Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is under
pressure to contain price gains. India’s food inflation rate
stayed above 10 percent for a 14th straight month, according to
a statement released in New Delhi today.  
 Seeking Support  
 The Congress Party-led government still needs to obtain
backing from its allies for allowing foreign investment in
retailers. Singh’s  Congress  has 208 seats in the 543-member
lower house after the party’s best election win in 18 years last
May and subsequent by-elections, still short of a majority.  
 Opposition from communist parties, which were allies in
Singh’s previous government, stymied reform attempts that
included selling stakes in state-run enterprises and
allowing foreign investment in retail.  
 Jain said small stores need not fear big retailers.  
 “Every developing country, including China, Brazil and
Mexico, has been through this and even today in China after 15
years, 80 percent of retail is unorganized,” he said. “The end
consumer will benefit a lot as prices will come down.”  
 Wal-Mart and Bharti in April opened their second wholesale
store in the northern state of Punjab. Bharti-Walmart, an equal
joint venture, plans to have as many as 15 such stores by March
2012.  
 Bharti Retail Ltd. , owned by billionaire  Sunil Mittal ’s
Bharti Group, plans to have 140 retail stores in India by the
end this year from about 80 stores now, Jain also said today.  
 Bharti Retail owns a chain of grocery outlets and Easyday
Market hypermarkets, according to the company’s website.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Saikat Chatterjee  in New Delhi at 
 schatterjee4@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        