-- Wal-Mart Cracks Chicago by Splitting Union, Non-Union Workers
-- Matthew Boyle
-- 2010-07-22T20:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/wal-mart-cracks-chicago-market-by-splitting-unions-from-non-union-workers.html

          
          
             Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ’s divide-and-
conquer strategy prevailed in Chicago by pitting construction
workers against employees who will stock shelves and ring
registers.  
 The  biggest U.S. retailer  reached a deal with the building
trades union two weeks before the city council unanimously
approved Chicago’s second store. Those workers will erect all
Wal-Mart facilities in northern Illinois during the next three
years, according to a labor agreement signed by Patrick
Hamilton, Wal-Mart’s vice president of construction.  
 The non-union employees who will staff the stores in the
nation’s third-largest city have no such agreement.  
 “Wal-Mart played on the whims of the building trade
unions, and the rest gave in,” Reverend Booker Vance, a
spokesman for  Good Jobs Chicago , a coalition of local unions,
congregations and community groups, said in a telephone
interview. “You have a lot of smoke and mirrors, and Wal-Mart
would like to give the impression that they acted in good faith,
but they have not.”  
 Nelson Lichtenstein , director of the Center for the Study
of Work, Labor, and Democracy at the University of California at
Santa Barbara and author of “The Retail Revolution: How Wal-
Mart Created a Brave New World of Business,” agreed with Vance.  
 The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union
and the  Chicago Federation of Labor , an umbrella organization
representing 300 unions in the area, were “sold out by the
building trades, who are still pretty powerful in the city,”
Lichtenstein said in a telephone interview.  
 Battle Lost  
 “The UFCW lost this battle,” Lichtenstein said.  
 While Wal-Mart signed a construction-worker agreement,
obtained by Bloomberg News, it wouldn’t commit to pay hourly
workers in Chicago a specific wage.  
 “There are no deals,” said Steve Restivo, a spokesman for
the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company. Wal-Mart didn’t play
one set of unions against another, and the labor agreement isn’t
a departure from how the retailer is building other stores in
Illinois with union workers, he said.  
 Tom Villanova, president of the  Chicago & Cook County
Building & Construction Trades Council , said his group worked
closely with other unions. The council represents plumbers,
electricians, painters and other building-related workers.  
 “We never bullied anybody,” Villanova said in a telephone
interview. “We were always in lockstep with UFCW and CFL with
everything they were trying to do.”  
 Chicago Unemployment  
 Wal-Mart envisions adding several dozen stores and creating
10,000 hourly positions and 2,000 construction jobs across
Chicago, where  unemployment  was 10.2 percent in June, compared
with the 9.5 percent national average. Unemployment in Illinois
was 10.4 percent.  
 The supercenter approved for the Pullman neighborhood would
create 300 in-store positions, according to Restivo, and about
250 union construction jobs, according to Villanova, who said
Wal-Mart committed to building 55 stores throughout northern
Illinois during the next three years.  
 The Wal-Marts in Chicago could range from 25,000-square-
foot stores not much bigger than a New York City bodega to
140,000-square-foot supercenters.  
 Making those plans a reality hinged on Wal-Mart wooing
local politicians and labor unions. The Chicago City Council’s
June 30 vote approving Wal-Mart’s second store in the city was
50-0, though vitriol filled the council chamber beforehand.  
 “I was a little surprised it was unanimous,” David Doig,
the site developer, said in an interview.  
 “Once you see this thing is going to be approved, why
would you want to be on the other side?” he said, explaining
why all council members may have fallen into step.  
 There’s also a reluctance to buck the project of a fellow
alderman, he said.  
 Wal-Mart Capital  
 “I do not want the city of Chicago to become the capital
of Wal-Mart in the United States,” Alderman Gene Schulter, who
represents a ward on the north side, said before the June 30
vote. “Every major city in this country is looking at what we
are doing today, so let’s make sure that we tell our colleagues
in those other cities to be as watchful as we are going to be
here in the city of Chicago.”  
 The council’s zoning committee set the stage for approval a
week earlier when Alderman Ed Burke waved an e-mail printout
during debate, saying it was proof that for the first time Wal-
Mart “had seen fit to offer 50 cents more than minimum wage as
starting pay.” Unions praised what they called “the  Chicago
Agreement ” and said the retailer would pay a starting wage of
$8.75 an hour with at least a 40-cent raise after one year.  
 ‘Point of Clarification’  
 Yet the e-mail, sent moments before the zoning vote and
later obtained by Bloomberg News, gives no such guarantee. It
spells out existing Wal-Mart pay policies.  
 “All raises are based on performance,” Wal-Mart’s
Restivo said, calling the e-mail a “point of clarification.”  
 Burke declined to comment.  
 Retail workers in the U.S. earn an average of $11.84 an
hour, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The average
hourly wage for full-time Wal-Mart employees is $11.75 an hour,
according to the company’s website. Costco Wholesale Corp.
starts stockers at $11 an hour and cashiers at $11.50 an hour,
 Jim Sinegal , chief executive officer, said in a telephone
interview. Costco’s average hourly wage nationwide is $19.76, he
said. Target Corp. doesn’t disclose its wage scale, said Jenn
Glass, a company spokeswoman.  
 Wal-Mart’s deal with the construction trades council is an
“official agreement,” said Maggie Sans, vice president of
public affairs for the retailer.  
 Daley Veto  
 Mayor  Richard M. Daley , 68, who vetoed an ordinance in 2006
that would have required Wal-Mart to pay a so-called living wage
of $13 an hour including benefits, said he has been approached
by other mayors about Wal-Mart.  
 “Especially in cities that need some sales tax money, that
need some real estate money, that need some jobs,” he said in a
telephone interview. The mayor declined to disclose who
contacted him.  
 Sales at Wal-Mart stores open at least a year have dropped
for four straight quarters. If the retailer succeeds in building
up stores in urban markets, it could mean an extra $80 billion
in sales, or about 20 percent of its annual revenue last year,
 Neil Currie , an analyst at UBS Securities LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut, said in a telephone interview. He recommends buying
the shares.  
 Duke’s Priorities  
 Wal-Mart shares have increased about 6 percent during the
past three years, outperforming during the recession and
underperforming since the economy began to recover last year.
The stock rose 51 cents to $50.86 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  
 The Chicago stores are part of a bigger strategy that Chief
Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has outlined during the past year to
spur growth in the U.S. One of his top priorities is to have
operating expenses such as labor rise at a slower rate than
sales. In the most recent second quarter, Wal-Mart met the mark
as sales grew 6 percent and expenses increased 3.9 percent.  
 “At this point there is quite a bit of pressure from the
investment community to raise sales without increasing
expenses,” said  David Abella , portfolio manager at Rochdale
Investment Management in New York, which manages $2.9 billion
including Wal-Mart shares. “The fact is that Wal-Mart is a
value stock but even value investors are getting frustrated.
Some investors are wondering if there is light at the end of the
tunnel.”  
 No Target  
 Last month, Wal-Mart put its chief operating officer,
 William Simon , in charge of U.S. stores, replacing  Eduardo Castro-Wright , who was reassigned to other duties.  
 Wal-Mart hasn’t said exactly where else it plans to build
in Chicago. It probably won’t go head to head with other
retailers like Target, David Doig, the site developer of the
city’s second Wal-Mart, said in an interview.  
 The largest tracts of available land in the city are zoned
for industrial use, and Wal-Mart would have to obtain rezoning
for any larger stores,  James Kutill , a vice president with
Chicago-based Appraisal Research Counselors, said in a telephone
interview.  
 During the Chicago negotiations, “decision makers within
Wal-Mart” met with the building trades in their downtown
Chicago office six times, Villanova said. Wal-Mart met with the
labor federation, the local UFCW and local Service Employees
International Union twice: on May 3 at O’Hare International
Airport and June 21 in the downtown Chicago offices of a Wal-
Mart consultant, according to Keith Kelleher, president of SEIU
Healthcare Illinois & Indiana.  
 Confidentiality Agreements  
 “Of course they wanted more work,” Kelleher said of the
union construction workers. “There’s always that pressure when
there’s a major building project.”  
 Wal-Mart required all attending the meetings, including its
own company representatives, to sign confidentiality agreements,
Restivo said.  
 “We’re not going to get into details about what happened
behind closed doors,” Marina Faz-Huppert, legislative and
political director for the local UFCW in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview.  
 The Chicago Federation of Labor also declined to comment on
meetings with Wal-Mart.  
 More Stores  
 Wal-Mart has a third store in the works for Chicago, in the
West Chatham neighborhood about five miles northwest of the
approved location in Pullman. It’s likely to open sooner because
site development is further along, Doig said.  
 Mayor Daley today asked the City Council to “express its
support” for the West Chatham store at its July 28 meeting,
according to a statement from the Mayor’s office. Daley said his
administration has the authority to approve the store without a
vote of the council. Pete Scales, a spokesman for the mayor,
said this power came from a redevelopment agreement for the site
approved by the council in 2005.  
 As Wal-Mart has largely exhausted the rural market, it’s
turning to these urban areas with a shortage of stores for their
residents, where it will face distrust from some unions.  
 “Wal-Mart is not a good neighbor,” Thomas McNutt,
president of the UFCW serving the Washington metropolitan area,
said in a telephone interview. “They are a company that has
redefined the meaning of corporate greed.”  
 It’s possible that the Chicago building trades leaned on
the other unions, McNutt said.  
 “We are not going to let a company like Wal-Mart divide
us,” he said.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Boyle  in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Mike Duke, president and chief executive officer of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. seen here in 2009. Photographer: Jin Lee/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     A Wal-Mart billboard sits on display along Interstate 94 near the far-south side of Chicago in South Holland, Illinois. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's biggest retailer, won the go-ahead to add a second store in Chicago. Photographer: Tim Boyle/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                            
                     
                     Workers install signs outside a Wal-Mart store under construction in Chicago, Illinois, in this 2006 file photo.  Wal-Mart won approval to build Chicago's second store in July 2010. Photographer:  Frank Polich/Bloomberg News  
                   
    

                 
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Wal-Mart Cracks Chicago by Splitting Union  
                       
                         
                           Beth Hall/Bloomberg 
                         
                         The biggest U.S. retailer reached a deal with the building trades union two weeks before the city council unanimously approved Chicago’s second store. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     The biggest U.S. retailer reached a deal with the building trades union two weeks before the city council unanimously approved Chicago’s second store. Photographer: Beth Hall/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
