-- Wheat Jumps to 13-Month High as Droughts Curb Output in Russia, Australia
-- Tony C. Dreibus
-- 2010-07-22T19:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/wheat-jumps-to-13-month-high-as-droughts-curb-output-in-russia-australia.html

          
          
             Wheat futures rose to a 13-month
high as buyers rushed to make purchases amid mounting concern
that adverse weather will slash this year’s global crop.  
 Algeria purchased 300,000 metric tons of French wheat, a
Chicago Board of Trade report said yesterday. Russian grain
traders may hold off on new export agreements because the
government may restrict shipments, according to SovEcon, an
agricultural researcher. Output in the state of Western
Australia may fall, CBH Group said.  
 “End-users are panicking and getting coverage in,” said
 Jim Hemminger , a risk management specialist at Top Third Ag
Marketing in Chicago. In Russia, “they’re not going to be able
to assess how much damage was done until they get into the
harvest, and they’re just starting,” he said.  
 Wheat futures for September delivery rose 8.25 cents, or
1.4 percent, to $5.965 a bushel on the CBOT. Earlier, the price
reached $6.10, the highest level for a most-active contract
since June 16, 2009.  
 Wheat has jumped 25 percent in the past month on forecasts
for reduced  output in Russia and the European Union. The U.S.
is the largest exporter, followed by Canada, Australia and
Russia, Department of Agriculture data show.  
 Russia’s government will begin sales of more than 3 million
tons of livestock feed and food-quality grain in domestic
tenders from Aug. 4 to help drought-stricken regions, the
Agriculture Ministry said yesterday.  
 ‘Smaller Than Expected’  
 Australian wheat exports to China, the world’s biggest
consumer, have jumped to the highest level in five years.
Shipments topped 700,000 tons since the start of November, said
Matthew Rutter, the head of trading at CBH Grain, a division of
CBH Group.  
 “We’ll be focusing on the Southern Hemisphere crop before
too long, so we have to pay attention to it,” said  Tom Leffler ,
the owner of Leffler Commodities LLC in Augusta, Kansas. “They
have something to be concerned about because their production is
smaller than expected.”  
 Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        