-- Wheat Inventories Are Tied Up in China, India, Rabobank's Chandler Says
-- Rudy Ruitenberg
-- 2010-07-22T15:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/wheat-inventories-are-tied-up-in-china-india-rabobank-s-chandler-says.html

          
          
             Global wheat stocks may overstate
the grain’s availability on world markets because China and
India are unlikely to sell from inventories to make up for lower
output by leading exporters, according to Rabobank.  
 Drought and floods threaten to curb harvests in suppliers
from France to Kazakhstan. That leaves importers more dependent
on the U.S. and sellers in the Southern Hemisphere, even as
stocks of the grain remain near the highest level in a decade,
analyst  Luke Chandler  said by phone from London today.  
 “You can look at world wheat stocks being quite high, but
a lot of them are tied up in China and India,” he said. “It’s
unlikely that one of those countries would step in to be a
significant exporter.”  
 Wheat stocks will drop to 187 million metric tons at the
end of the 2010-11 marketing year from 193 million tons a year
earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said July 9. Chinese
and Indian inventories will make up 43 percent of world
stockpiles, up from 37 percent in the previous season, as China
holds more of the  grain , according to USDA figures.  
 “The stocks are tied up in areas where they’re unlikely to
come to the world market,” Chandler said. “Other exporters
will have to step in to fill the void left by Russia, Kazakhstan
and Europe, and Canada, of course.”  
 Floods in Canada  
 September-delivery wheat jumped 26 percent in Chicago in
the past month as drought curbed the outlook for harvests in
Russia, Kazakhstan and the European Union and floods damaged
crops in Canada. Jointly, the three countries and the EU
accounted for half of global wheat exports in 2009-10.  
 Wheat production in the U.S., the top shipper, is expected
to be little changed in 2010-11 at 60.3 million tons, according
to the USDA.  
 “Everyone is trying to figure out what lower production,
and therefore exports, means for the Black Sea region,”
Chandler said. “You would expect it to strengthen the U.S.
position.”  
 Among other exporters, Argentina’s crop is forecast to jump
25 percent to 12 million tons, while Australia will harvest 22
million tons of wheat, down 2.2 percent from a year earlier,
according to the USDA.  
 Western Australia’s grain crop may drop to 9.5 million tons
this year on dry conditions, grain handler CBH Group said.  
 “Australia is a tale of two halves,” Chandler said. “The
east coast is looking fantastic, but there are some critical
risks in the west. There’s no real rain in the forecast until
mid-August. That has to be a key risk, given the increased
reliance on the U.S. and Southern Hemisphere exporters.”  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        