-- Wheat's 37% Surge Boosts Exports by Australia's Biggest Shipper of Grain
-- Wendy Pugh
-- 2010-07-22T08:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/wheat-s-37-surge-boosts-exports-by-australia-s-biggest-shipper-of-grain.html

          
          
             A 37 percent jump in global wheat
prices since early June has boosted sales by Australia, the
world’s fourth-biggest exporter.  
 “A slight dip in the dollar, plus the combination of that
rise, has provided us with some good selling opportunities,”
CBH Group Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Crane , 47, said in an
interview in Perth. CBH is the country’s largest grain shipper.  
 Wheat soared as a lack of rain in Russia, Kazakhstan and
the European Union and floods in Canada hurt crops. Price gains
may be sustained because of the weather and “tight” supplies
of corn, said Matthew Rutter, head of trading at CBH Grain, part
of CBH Group. Wheat competes with corn for use in livestock feed.  
 “Without at least record yields the corn situation is
still tight and that’s going to pull wheat along,” Rutter said
in an interview yesterday. “We are coming out of a relatively
burdensome” supply of wheat, “so things need to turn quite
significantly to really drive prices higher,” he said.  
 Indonesia, Vietnam, Japan and China are so far the largest
buyers of Australian wheat for the year to Sept. 30, according
to the Australian Bureau of Statistics based on data to May 31.  
 The wheat surge had spurred grower sales before the next
harvest and CBH was hedging new-crop supplies in Chicago, said
Rutter. Harvesting lasts from October through January.  
 ‘Active’ Sellers  
 “The growers have been active in selling all grains, but
we are only just past the seeding period and there is still a
lot of production risk,” Rutter said. “So there is still a low
proportion of that total crop that has been sold.”  
 The next wheat harvest in Australia may be 22 million tons,
according to CBH estimates. Production is forecast at 22.1
million tons by the Australian Bureau of Agricultural and
Resource Economics, up from 21.7 million tons last season.  
 Output of all grains in Western Australia may drop to 9.5
million tons because of dry conditions across parts of the
growing region, Crane said. Weather models mostly signaled
drier-than-average weather through September, he said.  
 CBH grain receivals from the past harvest were “just
over” 11 million tons, Crane told the group’s annual meeting in
March. Winter grains in Australia, including wheat, barley and
canola, are mostly planted from April to June.  
 Three-Year Low  
 September-delivery wheat on the Chicago Board of Trade fell
0.3 percent to $5.8650 a bushel today. The most active contract
plunged to a three-year low of $4.255 on June 9. The Australian
dollar slumped to 80.67 U.S. cents on May 25, the lowest level
since July 2009, after reaching 93.90 cents in April. The
currency traded at 88.16 cents today.  
 CBH, founded almost 80 years ago as Co-operative Bulk
Handling, has around 4,800 grower shareholders, according to its
 website . Crane, with 20 years experience in the grains industry
in the United Kingdom and Australia, joined the group in 2003.  
 The biggest wheat shippers in 2009-2010 are the U.S.,
Canada, Russia, Australia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan, U.S.
Department of Agriculture data show.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wendy Pugh  in Melbourne at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        