-- Wheat Jumps as Drought Cuts Into Production in Russia, Western Australia
-- Rudy Ruitenberg
-- 2010-07-22T12:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/wheat-jumps-as-drought-cuts-into-production-in-russia-western-australia.html

          
          
             Wheat jumped for a second day in
Chicago and Paris on concern that lower production in Russia
because of drought and a smaller grain harvest in Western
Australia may cause scarcity in export markets.  
 Wheat for September delivery rose 2 percent to $6 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:14 p.m. Paris time, paring a
climb of as much as 2.3 percent to $6.02, the highest price for
a most-active contract since Nov. 18. Milling wheat for November
delivery gained as much as 3.6 percent on NYSE Liffe in the
French capital.  
 The grain surged more than 25 percent in Chicago and Paris
in the past month as drought cut the outlook for harvests in
Russia, Kazakhstan and northwestern Europe and flooding hurt
crops in Canada. Western Australia’s grain crop may drop to 9.5
million metric tons this year on dry conditions, grain handler
CBH Group said.  
 “The Russian situation is being watched by everyone,”
said  Luke Chandler , an analyst at Rabobank in London. As some
major exporters face production problems, Australia “has to be
a key risk, given the increased reliance on the U.S. and
Southern-Hemisphere exporters,” he said.  
 The CBH forecast for Western Australia compares to a
“large crop” of 14.5 million tons and production of 6 million
tons for a drought crop, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Crane
said in an interview. Planting in the state this year was
completed in dry conditions, the Australian Bureau of
Agricultural and Resource Economics said last month.  
 Stockpiled Grain  
 November-delivery milling wheat was recently up 3 percent
at 180.25 euros ($231.81) a ton in Paris after rising as high as
181.25 euros, the highest price since the contract started
trading in March 2009.  
 Russia’s government will begin sales of more than 3 million
tons of stockpiled feed and food-quality grain in domestic
tenders from Aug. 4 to help drought-stricken regions, the
Agriculture Ministry said yesterday.  
 “The drought is worsening with every day that goes by,”
Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said in a comment on its
 website . “The government is certainly worried about the
situation of farmers, but above all the food balance of the
country, with spiraling prices.”  
 Russia’s government on July 20 declared states of emergency
in six more crop-producing regions due to the worst drought in
at least a decade, bringing the total to 23.  
 Exports From Russia  
 “The big risk is if Russian production becomes so
troublesome that the government comes in and actually puts in
bans,” Rabobank’s Chandler said. “If you get Russia stopping
exports, we’re going to blow through $7” a bushel, he said.  
 Gains above $6 a bushel for Chicago wheat may enable the
contract to rise further, according to the analyst.  
 “That’s the first time it’s broken through $6 this year,”
he said. “It has become a bit of a resistance level. The fact
that it has broken through today may open some upside.”  
 Corn for December delivery rose 0.9 percent in Chicago to
$3.97 a bushel and soybeans for delivery in November climbed 0.9
percent to $9.8725 a bushel.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rudy Ruitenberg  in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        