-- Yankee Stadium Announcer Olden Keeps Fit Chasing `Voice of God' Longevity
-- Mason Levinson
-- 2010-07-22T04:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/yankee-stadium-announcer-olden-keeps-fit-chasing-voice-of-god-longevity.html

          
          
             New York Yankees public-address
announcer Paul Olden is counting his calories and taking
care of his voice, hoping for the same longevity as the man
he replaced.  
 Olden’s predecessor was  Bob Sheppard , who died on July
11 at age 99 after introducing players from  Joe DiMaggio  to
 Robinson Cano  during a 57-year career with the Major League
Baseball team.  
 Olden, 56, who wasn’t born when Sheppard started with
the Yankees, says he keeps in shape. In the club’s media
dining room -- called Sheppard’s Place -- he skips the
fried chicken in favor of steamed vegetables and salad.  
 “I try to stay fit because I want to be around for a
long time,” Olden said in a July 20 interview from his
booth overlooking the field at Yankee Stadium. “It’s a job
that if you take care of yourself and take care of your
voice, you shouldn’t have a problem doing it into your 80s
and beyond.”  
 Sheppard, dubbed the “Voice of God” by Yankees Hall
of Famer  Reggie Jackson , announced his last game for the
franchise in 2007. He missed the 2008 season with a
bronchial infection, and retired in 2009.  
 Olden said he built a relationship with Sheppard
through telephone conversations the two had a couple of
times a month after he took the job.  
 The last week has been difficult for Olden and the
Yankees, who lost team owner  George Steinbrenner  at age 80
two days after Sheppard passed away.  
 “I knew Bob so well, and just being around the
organization and knowing what Mr. Steinbrenner did to bring
this team back to prominence, it’s just been really
emotional,” he said.  
 Sheppard Tribute  
 The Yankees paid tribute to Sheppard at their first
home game following his death by silencing the public
address microphone. Players and coaches will wear uniform
patches honoring Sheppard and Steinbrenner for the rest of
the season.  
 “Here was the guy who was part of the soundtrack of
coming to Yankee Stadium since 1951,” Olden said. “It was
something that tied together the generations hearing the
same voice, and especially his voice.”  
 Olden’s style is similar to what Sheppard called his
“clear, concise, correct” manner, having grown up in
Southern California listening to John Ramsey’s businesslike
voice as a public-address announcer for the Los Angeles
Dodgers and Lakers.  
 His game-time habits differ though. Olden, who is a
 freelance photographer , spends the time between
introductions seeking images to make from his perch. While
he’s always looking for interesting shots, Olden said he
knows that photography isn’t the priority.  
 ‘PA Comes First’  
 “The PA comes first and I make sure I get that
straightened out, the name announced, and then I can go
back to concentrating on the pictures,” he said.  
 Only one photo sits on Olden’s desk in the booth that
overlooks home plate. In a small New York Yankees picture
frame is a shot of Sheppard at work.  
 Olden, who was the public-address announcer for the
Super Bowl from 1994 to 2005, already was familiar to many
Yankees fans when he formally succeeded Sheppard in 2009.
He worked as a broadcaster in the Yankees’ television booth
alongside  Bobby Murcer  and  Phil Rizzuto  in 1995-96. Olden
also has done play-by-play work for the California Angels,
Cleveland Indians, New York Jets, Philadelphia Eagles, New
Jersey Nets and Tampa Bay Rays.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     Paul Olden, public-address announcer for the New York Yankees, in his broadcast booth behind home plate at the Yankee Stadium in New York. Photographer: Mason Levinson/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
