-- Stocks, Commodities Gain on Earnings, Economy; Dollar Weakens
-- Stephen Kirkland
-- 2010-07-22T20:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/yen-rises-as-bernanke-comments-damps-recovery-optimism-asian-stocks-drop.html

          
          
             Stocks  and commodities rallied on
improving profit forecasts at companies from United Parcel
Service Inc. to AT&T Inc. and accelerating growth in European
manufacturing and services industries. The euro strengthened,
Treasuries retreated and oil reached an 11-week high.  
 The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 2.3 percent to
1,093.67 at 4 p.m. in New York after surging as much as 2.6
percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  climbed 2.1 percent. Both
gauges had their biggest gain in two weeks. Oil topped $79 a
barrel and copper rose for a fourth day to send an index of
commodities up 2 percent, the most since March. The euro surged
more than 1 percent versus the dollar and yen.  
 U.S. equities rebounded from yesterday’s slide as
Caterpillar Inc. and EBay Inc. also posted better-than-estimated
earnings and home prices unexpectedly rose, overshadowing
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s assessment that the
economic outlook was “unusually uncertain.” The euro, which
slid to a four-year low in June, has risen almost 9 percent
since amid optimism the region’s debt crisis is contained.  
 “The earnings guidance from some of the bigger global
companies is looking better,” said  Mike Morcos , senior money
manager at Old Second Wealth Management in Aurora, Illinois,
which oversees about $1.1 billion. “The market is in a battle
between fear and optimism, and today we have some positive news
which indicate it may not all be doom and gloom.”  
 S&P 500’s Rebound  
 The  S&P 500  has rallied 7 percent from a 10-month low
earlier this month amid speculation that growth in earnings will
signal a stabilizing economy. Earnings per share have grown 55
percent for the 124 companies in the index that released second-
quarter results so far and 85 percent have beaten the average
analyst earnings estimate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  
 Equities added to gains and Treasuries extended losses
today as a National Association of Realtors report showed sales
of existing homes slipped 5.1 percent in June, less than the 9.9
percent forecast by economists. The median U.S. home price
increased 1 percent last month to $183,700 from $181,800 in June
2009. The Federal Housing Finance Agency’s national home price
index climbed 0.5 percent in May, defying the average economist
estimate for a decline.  
 Benchmark 10-year Treasury yields climbed four basis points
to 2.93 percent after dropping to 2.85 percent yesterday, the
least since April 2009.  
 UPS Leads Transports  
 UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, surged
5.2 percent as growing overseas demand improves its earnings
outlook. The shares helped lead the Dow Jones Transportation
Average to a 3.9 percent advance, the biggest in two weeks. EBay
rallied 3.8 percent, while AT&T climbed 2.4 percent. Qualcomm
Inc. jumped 8.2 percent, the most since November 2008, as the
maker of chips for mobile phones predicted higher prices for
devices that use its technology. More than 50 S&P 500 companies
were scheduled to report results today.  
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley led $14.2
billion in U.S. corporate bond sales yesterday in the busiest
day in almost four months as yields on company debt fell to the
lowest in six years. Goldman Sachs raised $3 billion in a two-
part bond offering, its biggest since January 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Morgan Stanley also issued $3
billion of debt after it reported second-quarter earnings that
surpassed analyst estimates.  
 A benchmark indicator of corporate credit risk in the U.S.
fell for the third time this week. Credit-default swaps on the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 3.2 basis points to a mid-price of
108.35 basis points, according to index administrator Markit
Group Ltd.  
 European Rally  
 All 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600 advanced after a
 composite index  based on a survey of euro-area purchasing
managers in manufacturing and service industries rose to 56.7
from 56 in June, according to  Markit Economics .  
 ABB Ltd., the world’s largest builder of electricity
networks, gained 4.2 percent in Zurich after earnings beat
estimates.  
 Banks contributed the most to the rally in European shares,
with HSBC Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest lender, rising 2.7
percent. Banco Santander SA, Spain’s largest bank, climbed 3.2
percent. Gains were limited as Credit Suisse Group AG fell 1
percent after reporting a drop in profit at its investment
banking unit.  
 Irish Banks Rally  
 Bank of Ireland Plc and Allied Irish Banks Plc, the
country’s two biggest banks, climbed at least 2 percent. Both
are both set to pass the European Union’s stress tests on
lenders, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter.  
 The cost of insuring against losses on European high-yield
bonds fell to the lowest level in a month, according to traders
of credit-default swaps. Contracts on the Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit
ratings decreased 9 basis points to 512.5, the lowest since June
21, Markit prices show.  
 The MSCI Asia Pacific Index  was little changed, while the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.9 percent as benchmark gauges
in South Africa, Brazil and Russia climbed at least 1.6 percent.  
 The dollar weakened against 15 of its 16 most-traded peers,
depreciating more than 1 percent to $1.2886 per euro and losing
more than 1.6 percent against the Australian and New Zealand
dollars.  
 Copper climbed 2.3 percent to $3.1645 a pound in New York
and reached $3.193, the highest price since May. Gold futures
for August delivery rose $3.80, or 0.3 percent, to $1,195.60 on
the Comex in New York. The metal has climbed 1.2 percent in
three days.  
 Natural gas for August delivery rose 2.9 percent to $4.643
per million British thermal units on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the highest settlement since July 6.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Stephen Kirkland  in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                            
                     
                     The dollar fell after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the economic outlook is “unusually uncertain.” Photographer: Joshua Roberts/Bloomberg  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 22 (Bloomberg) -- Lee Simpson, an analyst at Jefferies International Ltd., talks about forecasts for Nokia Oyj earnings and market share.
     Simpson speaks with Andrea Catherwood on Bloomberg Television's "The Pulse." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                   
    

                 
           
                           
                 
                 
                                       
                                   
               
                        
           
                          July 21 (Bloomberg) -- Dino Kos, managing director at Portales Partners LLC, talks about Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke's testimony today before the Senate Banking Committee.
     In his eight-page statement to the committee, Bernanke devoted almost 10 times as many words to discussing the exit from stimulus as he did to potential actions to boost growth. Kos talks with Pimm Fox on Bloomberg Television's "Taking Stock." (Source: Bloomberg)  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
