-- Hynix Semiconductor Second-Quarter Profit, Sales Beat Estimates
-- Jungmin Hong
-- 2010-07-22T07:39:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/hynix-semiconductor-second-quarter-profit-sales-beat-estimates.html

          
          
             Hynix Semiconductor Inc. , the
world’s second-largest computer-memory chipmaker, reported
operating profit and sales that beat analysts’ estimates as
demand for personal computers and a shortage of the chips drove
up prices.  
 Second-quarter  operating profit  was a record 1.05 trillion
won ($870 million), compared with a loss of 211 billion won a
year earlier, Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix said today. Revenue
jumped 96 percent to a record 3.28 trillion won.  
 Hynix said the rebound in computer demand that helped  Intel
Corp.  and  Samsung Electronics Co.  post higher earnings will stay
“robust” for the rest of the year. Still, the shares fell as
much as 5.7 percent on concern the industry may turn to a glut
in the second half, depressing prices as output matches demand.  
 “There seems to be some concern about chip-price declines
in the second half, which have led some investors to trim their
holdings,” said Kim Tae Woon, a fund manager at NH-CA Asset
Management in Seoul, which oversees $8.3 billion in assets
including Hynix shares. “Still, any big slowdown in earnings is
unlikely. Second-quarter earnings were good.”  
 Hynix  dropped 4.2 percent to close at 22,600 won, the
lowest since March 10, in Seoul trading. The benchmark Kospi
stock index fell 0.8 percent.  
 Prices will decline “slightly” in the current quarter,
while overall personal-computer demand will be stronger in the
second half than the first six months of the year, Kim Jeong
Woo, a marketing executive at Hynix, said on a conference call.  
 Disappointing Guidance  
 Hynix’s production of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM
-- chips that serve as short-term memory inside computers or
smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone -- will probably
increase by a “mid-single digit” percentage for the third
quarter while NAND flash memory prices may decline by a “mid-
teen percentage,” the company said.  
 “The company’s guidance failed to ease investors’ anxiety
on the industry” including personal computer demand and chip
prices, said  Lee Seung Woo , an analyst at Shinyoung Securities
Co. in Seoul.  
 Analysts  projected Hynix would post sales of 3.2 trillion
won and operating profit of 953.8 billion won.  Net income  was
665 billion won, less than the 877.7 billion won  average  of 10
analyst estimates. The figures are on a consolidated basis,
which includes earnings from overseas affiliates.  
 Exchange Losses  
 Losses on currency exchange and from the early redemption
of convertible bonds mainly accounted for the difference between
operating profit and net income, Hynix said in a statement.  
 Global personal-computer shipments rose 22 percent in the
second quarter, Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC said in a
statement last week. Gartner Inc., on the same day, put
worldwide growth at 21 percent, above its forecast for 19
percent.  
 The average selling price for DRAM increased 6 percent in
the April-June quarter compared with the previous three months,
while shipments climbed 7 percent, Hynix said.  
 Intel , the world’s biggest chipmaker, last week reported
record second-quarter sales and topped analysts’ estimates with
its forecast for the current period. Corporate spending is
strengthening, it said.  
 ‘Continued Growth’  
 Hynix has said it aims to post record earnings in 2010. The
chipmaker in May raised its 2010 investment plan to 3.05
trillion won from an earlier budget of 2.3 trillion won.  
 Global semiconductor sales are forecast to grow 27 percent
this year to $290 billion, compared with a February projection
of a 20 percent gain, Stamford, Connecticut-based researcher
Gartner Inc. said on June 3. The industry will show “continued
growth” and exceed $300 billion in sales in 2011, it said.  
 The market DRAM will surge 78 percent this year, according
to the researcher.  
 Samsung , Asia’s biggest maker of semiconductors, flat
screens and mobile phones, posted record earnings last quarter
according to preliminary results on July 7.  Nanya Technology
Corp. , Taiwan’s second-largest memory-chip maker, said yesterday
second-quarter sales almost doubled to NT$15.7 billion ($487.7
million) from a year earlier.  
 The  Dramexchange Index , which tracks prices of the most
widely used computer-memory chips, has risen 11 percent this
year as the global economic recovery boosted demand for
electronics, lifting earnings for chipmakers.  
 The price of the  benchmark 1-gigabit DRAM chip  rose 73
percent in the 12 months to June 30, according to Taipei-based
Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator of Asia’s largest spot
market for semiconductors.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jungmin Hong  in Seoul at   jhong47@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  
     
       
     
           
                                                 
                     
                     Enlarge image 
                     
                     
                       Kwon Oh Chul, CEO of Hynix Semiconductor Inc.  
                       
                         
                           Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg 
                         
                         Kwon Oh Chul, CEO of Hynix Semiconductor Inc., speaks during a ceremony in Icheon, South Korea. 
                       
                     
                                        
           
                     Kwon Oh Chul, CEO of Hynix Semiconductor Inc., speaks during a ceremony in Icheon, South Korea. Photographer: Seokyong Lee/Bloomberg  
                           

     
//<![CDATA[

            $(document).ready(function () {
        $(".view_story #story_content .attachments img.small_img").each(function(){
          var self = $(this);
          if (self.width() != 190){
            self.width(190);
        }
        });
      });
    
//]]>
