-- Yuan Demand in Hong Kong May Lead to Twin Rates, Standard Chartered Says
-- Andrea Wong
-- 2010-07-22T07:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/yuan-demand-in-hong-kong-may-lead-to-twin-rates-standard-chartered-says.html

          
          
             The yuan may have a stronger
exchange rate and higher deposit rates in Hong Kong than in the
rest of China as expectation for appreciation spurs demand, said
 Kelvin Lau , a economist at Standard Chartered Plc.  
 “We predict investors will want more yuan to invest in
yuan-denominated products, but yuan supply at the moment is
still restricted to export trade settlement and deposits,” Lau
said in a telephone interview in Hong Kong. “Yuan deposit rates
in Hong Kong could climb near the mainland’s” to attract more
fund inflows, he said.  
 The yuan’s bid-offer spread was 6.7787 to 6.7789 per dollar
in Shanghai as of 3:12 p.m. local time, according to China
Foreign Exchange Trade System. In Hong Kong’s interbank market,
it was about 6.75 to 6.77 and just two transactions of $1
million apiece have been executed since trading commenced
yesterday, according to  Gerrard Katz , head of foreign-exchange
trading at Standard Chartered. Volumes are “very tiny” because
of position limits introduced to prevent speculation, he said.  
 Deposits of the currency in Hong Kong rose 4.7 percent in
May to 84.7 billion yuan ($12.5 billion), Hong Kong Monetary
Authority figures show. The yuan has gained 0.7 percent in the
past four weeks after the central bank said June 19 it will
allow greater flexibility in the exchange rate, ending a two-
year dollar peg.  
 Rate Differential  
 The People’s Bank of China and the HKMA signed an agreement
on July 19 lifting limits on companies buying or selling yuan in
the city. Remittances of funds between Hong Kong and the rest of
China for investment can be made only with the regulator’s
approval, HKMA Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said.  
 The one-year yuan deposit rate in China is 2.25 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. HSBC Holdings Plc,
Europe’s biggest bank, offers as little as 0.45 percent for
renminbi savings deposits in Hong Kong.  
 “The amount of yuan in Hong Kong is quite small, so it
should be that the onshore market has the dominant role,
influencing the offshore market,”  Peter Pang , deputy chief
executive of the HKMA, said in Shanghai yesterday.  
 Yuan settlement of trade between the city and China more
than doubled to 7.2 billion yuan in May, compared with as much
as 3 billion yuan in both March and April, the HKMA said last
month.  
 To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Hong Kong at  at
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;  
          
          


  


        