-- South African President Zuma Says Government Discussing Its Stance on Rand
-- Mike Cohen
-- 2010-07-22T10:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-07-22/zuma-says-no-decision-taken-to-weaken-south-african-rand-talks-continuing.html

          
          
             South Africa’s government is
considering a suggestion by the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development that it weaken the rand to promote
exports, President  Jacob Zuma  said.  
 “We have not taken any decision as yet,” Zuma told
reporters in Pretoria today, following a two-day planning
meeting with his Cabinet. “Those are matters that we are
looking at. Even economists, as you know, don’t have one view on
the matter.”  
 The rand’s 25 percent gain against the dollar since the
beginning of last year has eroded the competitiveness of the
country’s exports and led mines and factories to fire thousands
of workers. In its first survey of Africa’s biggest  economy 
released on July 19, the Paris-based OECD said South Africa
should do more to build up its foreign currency reserves and
weaken the currency to foster growth and create jobs.  
 South Africa’s  unemployment rate  of 25.2 percent is the
highest of 62 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  
 The Cabinet had been presented with a draft economic
development plan that aims to create more jobs, Zuma said.  
 “It was agreed that a special Cabinet meeting will be held
shortly to focus on developing the document further,” he said.
The government will be “working closely with the unions and
business to identify the job drivers.”  
 Zuma dismissed media reports that he would change his
Cabinet.  
 “Shuffles are occasioned by specific events in
government,” he said. “It is not on the cards as yet.”  
 Asked to comment on media reports that companies owned by
Communications Minister  Siphiwe Nyanda  had benefitted from state
contracts, Zuma said: “There are processes in government that
always happen if there are such allegations. I don’t think we
could jump to conclusions before any investigation is done. If
the allegations are indeed substantiated,” appropriate action
must be taken.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Cohen  in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  
          
          


  


        