-- Wellink says ABN break-up should not be delayed: report
-- 
-- Sat Oct 13, 2007 7:27am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/10/13/businesspro-abnamro-takeover-wellink-dc-idUSL1352678720071013

 

 AMSTERDAM  (Reuters) - The three banks who have won control 
of ABN AMRO should move quickly to implement their plans to 
break it up to avoid any problems, the Dutch central bank 
governor was quoted as saying on Saturday. 

  In an interview with the Financieele Dagblad newspaper, 
Nout Wellink said that financial authorities would work with 
the consortium as they proceed with plans to break up ABN.  "I am glad that the uncertainly concerning the bank is over 
now," Wellink was quoted as saying in an interview.  Royal Bank of Scotland, Belgian-Dutch financial group 
Fortis and Spain's Santander declared their 70 billion euros 
($99.2 billion) offer for ABN unconditional on Wednesday after 
a months-long takeover battle.  "The consortium has cooperated constructively," Wellink 
added.  Asked in the interview about the biggest risks for the 
takeover Wellink said: "The longer it takes the greater the 
risks."  The carve-up of ABN is unprecedented given the scale of the 
deal -- the biggest ever -- and ABN's sprawling global reach, 
with 4,500 branches across 53 countries.  Under the deal, Spain's Santander gets ABN's Italian and 
Brazilian operations, while Fortis will get its Dutch business, 
as well as its wealth and asset management operations.  RBS will get the wholesale and investment banking business 
and ABN's Asian operations.  Wellink said in the interview he would work closely with 
the three-bank consortium to ensure that the financial system 
is not disrupted by the merger between Fortis and ABN.  In February, after ABN investor TCI, a hedge fund, called 
on the Netherlands' biggest bank to break up or sell itself and 
triggered the events leading up to the takeover, Wellink 
criticized the notion of breaking up ABN, saying that it was 
fraught with risks.  Wellink later toned down his remarks, and then recommended 
to the Dutch Finance Ministry that it approve the consortium's 
plans.  Wellink, also a European Central Bank Governing Council 
member, also spoke of the recent turmoil in the credit markets 
in the Financieele Dagblad interview.  "We cannot judge too early, but up until now the 
(financial) system has weathered the turbulence," Wellink was 
quoted as saying. "The problem in the U.S. mortgage market is 
not yet over."  Asked whether central banks could cope with any further 
unrest in the financial markets, Wellink said that while 
further injections were possible to calm the money markets, 
there was a limit to what central banks could do.  "The essence is not that there is not enough money, but 
that banks were not lending to each other," Wellink said.