-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise as Russian Economic Slump Eases
-- Lester Pimentel
-- 2009-08-06T21:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-08-06/emerging-market-stocks-rise-as-russian-economic-slump-eases.html

          
          
             Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in three days after a report showed  Russia ’s economic
slump eased.  
 OAO Aeroflot, Russia’s largest airline, jumped 2.9 percent
after the stock was raised to “buy” from “hold” at Troika
Dialog.  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , an Israeli maker of a capsule-sized
cameras, advanced 10.7 percent after second-quarter net income
beat analysts forecasts.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) ,  Indonesia ’s largest
coal producer, climbed 11 percent on speculation a recovery in
the global economy will increase prices of the fuel. Latin
American stocks retreated, limiting gains in the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index. (MXEF)   
 The MSCI index added 0.1 percent, snapping a two-day, 1.2
percent decline. Signs developing-nation economies and banks are
recovering from the global recession has helped emerging-market
stocks surge 75 percent in the past five months. Output in
Russia, the world’s biggest energy-exporting economy, shrank 2.9
percent in July from a year earlier, compared with a 4.8 percent
contraction in June, according to VTB Capital’s indicator of
gross domestic product.  
 “Conditions appear to have eased somewhat,” Neil Shearing, emerging-Europe economist at Capital Economics in
 London , wrote today in a research note. “The risks to our
relatively bearish forecast for a 10 percent contraction in the
Russian economy this year could lie on the downside.”  
 Russia Stocks  
 The Micex index of Russian stocks climbed 0.7 percent.
Troika Dialog upgraded Aerofloat because the airline’s
“increasingly modern, fuel-efficient fleet enables it to raise
market share,” Kirill Kazanli, a Moscow-based analyst, wrote in
a note. OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest bank, added 1.7
percent.  
 “We see the banks leading the pack,” said Mark Rubinstein, an analyst with IFC Metropol in Moscow.  
 South Korean lenders were raised to “positive” from
“neutral” by BNP Paribas SA, citing a likely decline in non-
performing loans and improving margins.  Korea ’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index
added as much as 0.8 percent.  
 In Latin America,  Brazil ’s Bovespa dropped 1.1 percent.
Gerdau SA, the region’s biggest steelmaker, slid more than 2
percent after reporting its first quarterly loss in more than a
decade. Lojas Americanas SA, Brazil’s largest discount retailer,
declined the most in more than a month before reporting earnings
today.  Mexico ’s Bolsa slipped 1 percent.  
 The  extra yield  investors demand to own developing nations’
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened three basis points to
3.45 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ Index. A basis point equals 0.01 percentage point.  
 To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Cochrane in London at 
 lcochrane3@bloomberg.net   
 To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net   
          
          


  


        