-- ‘Coward’ Revels in Cheerful Gore; Addams Grandma Whines: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2010-12-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/-coward-revels-in-cheerful-gore-addams-grandma-whines-review.html
Quentin Tarantino  meets Marivaux in
“The Coward,” a comedy of manners with a major dollop of gore
that’s not for the squeamish.  This Nick Jones comedy is given a high-stylish, febrile
production by flavor-of-the-moment director Sam Gold for  Lincoln
Center Theater ’s development arm, LCT3.  It’s set in the late 18th century, mostly on the estate of
Nathaniel Culling (Richard Poe), a bombastic blueblood who’s
already lost two sons to the foolish art of the duel and now
urges his third, the exceedingly effeminate Lucidus (Jeremy
Strong), to follow suit.  Poor Lucidus would rather be tasting pies in the park with
his foppy friends Gavin (Stephen Ellis) and Finn (John Patrick
Doherty). Eager to please Father, however, he sets in motion a
series of events leading to showdowns in which he is replaced by
a sharp-shooting double (Christopher Evan Welch). Lucidus’s
“success” brings him unwanted fame and the dubious attentions
of the vapid Isabelle Dupree (Kristen Schaal), a purse-lipped
debutante for whom flouncing is a high-art form.  There’s a wicked satire lurking just below the surface
(think of Shakespeare’s Falstaff riffing on the theme of honor
and you’ll have some idea of what Jones has in mind).  Over-the-Top  Gold has all the actors play over-the-top, none more so
than Strong, whose vocal register is somewhere in the ether and
who, with his fluttery fingers and bouncy steps, epitomizes the
phrase “light-in-the-loafers.” He’s easily matched by Schaal,
a peerless bubblehead.  As the violence escalates, the visuals grows more and more
crimson in a production given serious polish by set designer
David Zinn, lighting master Ben Stanton and costumer Gabriel
Berry.  “The Coward” is a perfect complement to Lincoln Center
Theater’s luscious production of “A Free Man of Color” at the
Beaumont, the former a new voice worth hearing, the latter a
practiced one always worthy of attention.  Through Dec. 4 at the Duke on 42nd, 229 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-646-223-3010;  http://www.dukeon42.org  Rating: **  ‘Jackie Five-Oh!’  On Broadway,  Jackie Hoffman  plays screechy, cranky Grandma
in  “The Addams Family.”  At  Joe’s Pub , where she’s celebrating
her “first” 50th birthday, she’s playing screechy, cranky
Jackie Hoffman in her latest taste-challenged, brutally funny
stand-up performance.  Chief among her targets is her own show. “When the critics
ran out of hatred room in the reviews for our show,” she says,
“they started to hate us in reviews they wrote for other
shows.”  Hoffman (who co-wrote the evening with Michael Schiralli
and musical director Bobby Peaco) kvetches about being the only
Broadway grandmother deprived of her own song, when even Lurch
gets one (“He doesn’t even talk!”). Also about losing film
roles to  Queen Latifah  (Hoffman is small, white and Jewish;
Queen Latifah is, you know, not).  Mondays through Dec. 31 at 425 Lafayette St. Information:
+1-212-967-7555;  http://www.joespub.com  Rating: **  ( Jeremy Gerard  is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 