-- Delta Looks at Airbus A320 Jet for Boeing-Dominated Fleet
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2010-12-04T00:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/-we-ll-look-closer-at-airbus-a320-with-new-engines-delta-says.html
Delta Air Lines Inc.  will weigh
adding a more fuel-efficient version of Airbus SAS’s narrow-body
A320 to a fleet historically dominated by Boeing Co. jets.  “Like everyone else, we’ll look closer at the A320 to see
if it might merit deeper consideration for our long-term fleet
plans,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said late
yesterday in a weekly recorded message to employees.  Airbus said earlier this week it will offer new engines for
its single-aisle A320 aircraft series that can increase fuel
efficiency by 15 percent. The planes will be available in 2016
and will compete with Boeing’s narrow-body 737, the world’s most
widely flown airliner.  “We wish Boeing would do the same, but it doesn’t look
like the 737 will have much innovation in the coming years,”
Anderson said. Atlanta-based Delta is the second-biggest U.S.
airline.  Boeing hasn’t committed to offering new engines on the 737
or replacing the plane with an all-new jet, a spokesman for the
Chicago-based company said this week. The business case for new
engines is “not as compelling as we’d like to see,” Boeing
Commercial Airplanes CEO  Jim Albaugh  said in October.  Boeing’s View  A Boeing spokesman,  Jim Proulx , declined to comment today
regarding Anderson’s remarks.  “We’re in regular contact with our customers about the
value that the next-generation 737 brings to the market,”
Proulx said. “That said, we don’t discuss the contents of
conversations we may have with them.”  Delta and Boeing have long had a close relationship, with
jets built by the planemaker and other companies it acquired
accounting for about two-thirds of  Delta’s fleet  at the end of
September. Boeing led a creditors committee during Delta’s
bankruptcy that successfully fended off a hostile takeover bid
from  US Airways Group Inc.  in January 2007.  Delta has repeatedly said it doesn’t plan to purchase many
new planes in the immediate future, and is instead spending $1
billion on its existing fleet to add flat-bed seats and first-
class cabins.  “While we’re pretty happy with our fleet today, we’re
always watching changes in the capability of aircraft,”
Anderson said.  Delta’s narrow-body jets include more than 100 MD-88s that
are about 20 years old on average, about 50 DC-9s that are 34
years old, and about 70 A320s that are 16 years old, according
to a regulatory filing for the third quarter. The fleet totaled
821 planes, the filing showed. The carrier gained Airbus jets
when it bought Northwest Airlines Corp. in 2008.  The new A320 will give airlines a choice between Pratt &
Whitney’s PurePower geared turbofan engine, the Leap-X from CFM
International, a joint venture by  General Electric Co.  and
Safran SA, or the existing engines.  Delta  climbed  12 cents to $13.63 at 4:19 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading.  Boeing  fell 5 cents to $66.54.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Jane Credeur  in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 