-- Swiss Stocks Slide, Ending Two-Day Increase; Zurich Financial Shares Fall
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-12-03T17:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/adecco-feintool-roche-zurich-xstrata-swiss-equity-preview.html
Swiss stocks retreated, ending a two-
day gain, as a government report showed U.S. employers added
fewer jobs than forecast in November and the unemployment rate
unexpectedly increased.  Zurich Financial Services AG  lost 1.7 percent after posting
a 6.1 percent gain in two days. Shares of drugmaker  Novartis AG 
declined 1.7 percent.  Adecco SA  rose after setting up a joint
venture in China.  The  Swiss Market Index  declined 0.7 percent to 6,440.9 at
the 5:30 p.m. close of trading in Zurich. The gauge, which has
lost 0.7 percent this week, has still rallied 8.4 percent from
its 2010 low in July. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  slid
0.5 percent today.  “The U.S. labor report is really disappointing,” said
 James Knightley , an economist at ING Financial Markets in
London. “It is the most watched U.S. data release and will not
be good for risk sentiment as we head into next week during
which the outcome of the vote on the Irish budget on Tuesday has
the potential to lead to renewed concern about euro-zone
sovereign debt.”  U.S. payrolls increased 39,000 last month, less than the
most pessimistic prediction of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, after a revised 172,000 increase in October, Labor
Department figures showed. The jobless rate rose to 9.8 percent,
the highest since April.  Zurich Falls  Zurich , Switzerland’s largest insurer, retreated 1.7
percent to 233.1 Swiss francs.  “The operational programs that Zurich Financial has in
place should support an at least maintained level of
profitability,” Helvea SA said in a report. “However, we
question whether this is enough to make an investment case.”  Novartis retreated 1.7 percent to 53.45 francs. CA
Cheuvreux reiterated an “underperform” recommendation on the
Swiss drugmaker after Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc., which
receives royalties from the only approved generic version of the
blood thinner Lovenox, filed a patent-infringement suit to block
a potential rival drug from Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.  Momenta and its partner, Novartis’s Sandoz, began selling
copies of the Sanofi-Aventis SA drug after receiving U.S. Food
and Drug Administration approval July 23.  Roche Holding AG , the
world’s biggest maker of cancer medicines, slid 0.7 percent to
138.4 francs.  UBS AG , the country’s biggest bank, fell 0.5 percent to
15.71 francs. The Swiss government said that a double-taxation
agreement with Germany and five other nations will be passed to
parliament for approval.  Adecco rose 0.6 percent to 59.95 francs. The world’s
largest supplier of temporary workers started a joint venture in
Shanghai with Chinese human-resources service company Fesco.
Adecco will hold 49 percent of the equity.  The news is “positive as it offers an entrance in a
potentially important market,” CA Cheuvreux said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 