-- Taiwan Considers Imposing New Tax for Homes Sold Within a Year of Purchase
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2010-12-03T07:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/taiwan-considers-imposing-new-tax-for-homes-sold-within-a-year-of-purchase.html
Taiwan is considering a new property
tax on real estate sold within a year of purchase and plans to
revise land valuation rules to further quell the risk of
overheating, the government said.  The tax will be aimed at investment properties and not
those who own their homes, said Ching-hua Lee, chief secretary
at the  Ministry of Finance . Land valuations will also be revised
more regularly to ensure taxes reflect market changes, said Wang
Ching-hsiu, a deputy director of the  Interior Ministry .  “A new tax burden should discourage short-term investors
from speculation in the property market and could help curtail
prices,”  Cheng Cheng-mount , chief economist at  Citibank Taiwan
Ltd. , said by phone today. Previous credit-tightening measures
have failed to curb real-estate prices, the economist said.  Taiwan’s central bank on Sept. 30 increased its benchmark
 interest rate  by 0.125 percentage point for the second time this
year after a jump in home prices fueled concern the island’s
economic recovery may stoke a property bubble. Prices in the
capital rose 7 percent from December 2009 to the end of
September, said  Stanley Su , an analyst at  Sinyi Realty Co. ,
Taiwan’s biggest real-estate brokerage.  The government is studying the tax “and we hope this would
discourage speculation,” Lee told reporters in Taipei today.  The tax on property sales could be as high as 30 percent,
the Taipei-based Economic Daily News reported, citing an
unidentified official at the Ministry of Finance. Lee said the
ministry hasn’t decided on the tax rate.  Revising Valuation Policies  A  gauge  of 36 construction and building companies in the
 Taiex index  fell 2 percent at the close in Taipei trading today,
the worst performer among 28 industry groups. Farglory Land
Development Co., the island’s biggest property company, lost 1.6
percent, the most in more than a week.  Cathay Real Estate
Development Co.  dropped 2.5 percent, the most since Nov. 15.
 Prince Housing & Development Corp.  retreated 2.7 percent.  Taiwan also plans to revise its so-called published
property values every year starting as early as the second half
of 2011, said Wang, who works at the Interior Ministry’s land
department. The benchmark for annual real estate taxes is now
revised every three years.  The so-called declared land values, used to calculate taxes
on the increase in the worth of properties, will be revised when
necessary to bridge the gap with current market prices, she said.
Those valuations are now revised yearly.  “We will act to enhance taxation fairness as investors who
buy and sell land within the same fiscal year won’t be taxed
against gains under current land value increment tax rules,”
Wang said.  More Tightening  The central bank and financial regulator tightened lending
procedures to ensure the quality of loans after banks on the
island of 23 million people cut mortgage lending rates to the
lowest since records began. Plunging rates drove prices of
residential property in the greater Taipei area up by 20 percent
last year, according to Sinyi Realty.  The increase in home prices has made it more difficult for
first-time buyers to purchase properties. In response, the
 Cabinet  last month asked eight banks partially owned by the
government to offer up to NT$200 billion ($6.6 billion) of
mortgages at lower interest rates.  People aged between 20 and 45 from Dec. 1 are eligible to
apply for loans up to NT$5 million per household for a maximum
of 30 years at an annual interest rate of 1.5 percent for the
first two years, lower than the average 1.62 percent. First-time
home buyers can borrow up to 80 percent of the property value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Adela Lin  at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
 Chinmei Sung  in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  