-- Allergan Wins Panel’s Backing on Broader Lap-Band Use
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2010-12-03T23:02:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/allergan-wins-fda-panel-s-backing-to-use-obesity-device-for-more-patients.html
Allergan Inc.  won a U.S. panel’s
backing to market its Lap-Band weight-loss device to a greater
number of obese people than it now treats.  The Lap-Band worked well enough in studies to outweigh
potential risks, outside advisers to the Food and Drug
Administration said today in an 8-2 vote in Gaithersburg,
Maryland. The FDA usually follows the recommendations of its
advisory panels.  The adjustable silicon band helps people lose weight by
reducing the amount of food their stomachs can hold. Allergan,
the Irvine, California-based maker of the wrinkle smoother
Botox, is seeking to sell the Lap-Band for obese people with
lower body mass indexes than the “severely” obese for whom the
 FDA approved  the device in 2001.  “I don’t think the experience with this device will be
radically different” than it has been with severely obese
patients, panelist  Steven Schwaitzberg , chief of surgery at
Cambridge Health Alliance in Boston, said after the vote.  About 220,000 people in the U.S. underwent weight-loss
surgery last year, according to the  American Society for
Metabolic & Bariatric Surgery , a Gainesville, Florida-based
doctors’ organization. Being overweight costs Americans as much
as $150 billion a year from illnesses such as diabetes, heart
disease and cancer, as obese people carry almost $1,500 more in
yearly medical expenses, the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention said in a report in August.  Treatments Needed  “The need for effective obesity treatments has never been
greater,” Frederick Beddingfield, Allergan’s vice president for
clinical research, said in testimony to the committee. The Lap-
Band has been implanted in 600,000 people worldwide, and the
device’s effectiveness and safety “have continued to improve
since it was initially introduced,” he said.  Allergan rose $2.20, or 3.2 percent, to $71 at 5:52 p.m. in
extended  trading  after gaining 52 cents to close at $68.80 on
the New York Stock Exchange. The stock has climbed 9.2 percent
this year.  Safety concerns have been a hurdle for drug companies
seeking to introduce the first prescription anti-obesity
medicine in more than a decade.  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. ’s
lorcaserin and  Vivus Inc. ’s Qnexa failed to win clearance from
the agency in October.  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. ’s new diet
pill Contrave has safety risks and unclear benefits, FDA staff
said today in a report. The agency is scheduled to rule on that
drug by Jan. 31.  Meridia Withdrawal  Abbott Laboratories’ 13-year-old weight-loss drug Meridia
was pulled from the market in October after being linked to
heart attacks, strokes and deaths. Safety issues also prompted
the withdrawals of Wyeth’s fen-phen in 1997 and Sanofi-Aventis
SA’s rimonabant in 2007.  Allergan’s obesity products generated $258 million in
revenue last year, mostly from Lap-Band sales. The device
competes with a gastric band called Realize sold by New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson , the world’s
largest health-care products company.  Approval of the Lap-Band for wider use may help boost
Allergan’s sales to $390 million in 2016,  Louise Chen , an
analyst with Collins Stewart LLC in New York, said Nov. 30 in a
research note. Revenue may climb to $500 million if unemployment
declines and consumer spending rises, she said.  Less Invasive  The Lap-Band is implanted around the upper part of the
stomach through laparoscopic incisions that are less invasive
than gastric-bypass or stomach-stapling surgeries. The device is
approved for people who are at least 100 pounds (45 kilograms)
 overweight , have a body mass index of at least 40, or have a BMI
of at least 35 with obesity-related conditions such as heart
problems.  A BMI of 40 is about equivalent to a 5-foot 9-inch (175-
centimeter) person who weighs 270 pounds, according to the U.S.
 National Institutes of Health , based in Bethesda, Maryland. The
index, used to estimate what constitutes a healthy weight based
on an individual’s height, is weight in pounds times 703 divided
by the square of height in inches.  The expanded use, if approved by FDA, would let Allergan
market the device for patients with a body mass index of at
least 35, and people with a BMI of at least 30 who have obesity-
related conditions. A person who is 5 feet, 9 inches tall would
weigh about 236 pounds with a  BMI of 35 , and 203 pounds if the
BMI is 30, according to the NIH.  Study Results  In Allergan’s study of that patient population, 80 percent
of trial participants lost at least 10 percent of their total
body weight within a year, and two-thirds lost at least 15
percent, Robert Michaelson, a surgeon at Northwest Weight Loss
Surgery in Everett, Washington, said in testimony to the panel.  “This is remarkable,” said Michaelson, who has done more
than 1,400 gastric banding procedures and was an investigator in
Allergan’s trial. “This is a patient population who has been
obese for more than a decade and they’ve tried and failed
numerous methods of non-operative weight loss.”  While Allergan compensated Michaelson for today’s
appearance before the FDA panel, he doesn’t have any other
financial ties to the company.  Studies haven’t been conducted to determine the Lap-Band’s
long-term benefits and risks, said  Diana Zuckerman , president of
National Research Center for Women & Families, a Washington-
based advocacy group that opposes expanded use of the device.  Safety Concerns  “We don’t know whether Lap-Bands deteriorate in the body;
we don’t know whether aging Lap-Bands will cause more serious
health problems,” Zuckerman told the panel. “We don’t even
know if the weight stays off in the long term.”  FDA clearance of the Lap-Band for more patients may “help
reinvigorate a struggling franchise,”  Gary Nachman , an analyst
with Susquehanna Financial Group in New York, said Dec. 1 in a
research note. “Sales of Lap-Band have been relatively stable
in recent quarters, but they are still below their peak as a
difficult economy and share losses to J&J’s Realize band have
taken a toll.”  Allergan also is seeking FDA approval to market the Lap-
Band to obese adolescents. The agency hasn’t yet scheduled an
advisory panel meeting on that proposal. Allergan acquired the
product in 2006 with its purchase of Inamed Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Molly Peterson  in
Washington at   mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Reg Gale at
   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 