-- Altman at White House for Meeting Amid Search for NEC Director
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2010-12-03T22:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/altman-visits-white-house-amid-search-for-nec-director-to-replace-summers.html
Roger Altman , a candidate to replace
 Lawrence Summers  as director of President  Barack Obama ’s
National Economic Council, visited the White House this morning,
according to an administration official.  Altman, the founder  of Evercore Partners Inc.  and a former
deputy Treasury secretary, interviewed with President  Barack Obama  on Nov. 16 to head the White House group that coordinates
policy making and economic advice for the president.  Altman was at the White House today for a meeting,
according to the official, who requested anonymity. He didn’t
meet Obama, who was out of the country on an unannounced trip
Afghanistan.  “The president is considering a number of candidates, but
no decisions have been made,” said  Jen Psaki , an administration
spokeswoman.  Obama has also discussed economic positions in the
administration with former Procter & Gamble Co. Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Lafley  and Yale University President  Richard Levin ,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Efforts to reach Altman, Lafley and Levin for comment today
were unsuccessful. Lafley said in an e-mailed statement last
month that “I am neither being considered for nor have I been
offered” a job by the White House.  Among other candidates being considered are  Jason Furman , a
deputy NEC director, and  Gene Sperling , a counselor to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who held the NEC director’s job in
the administration of President  Bill Clinton , according to two
people familiar with the matter.  The search for a director of the council has been under way
at least since September, when Summers announced he would return
at the end of the year to Harvard University, where he was once
president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  