-- Ant-Covered Crucifix Roils Washington Censor Brigade: Commentary
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2010-12-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ant-covered-crucifix-enrages-censor-brigade-in-washington-martin-gayford.html
Here we go again.  Once more there have been angry requests for a work of art
to be withdrawn from an exhibition. This time the kerfuffle is
about an 11-second section of a video on show at the  National
Portrait Gallery  in Washington, D.C. The work, “A Fire in My
Belly,” by the late David Wojnarowicz includes, briefly,
sequences of ants crawling over a crucifix.  This was denounced by  Bill Donohue , the president of the
U.S.  Catholic League , as “hate speech” and attacked by various
politicians. It was withdrawn from an exhibition, a move
described by the museum director  Martin Sullivan , implausibly,
as not “caving in.” (In a protest reaction,  Transformer , a
Washington arts group, began showing the video in its storefront
project space.) So far, so familiar: This controversy recalls
others from years gone by.  The brouhaha over  Chris Ofili ’s painting “The Holy Virgin
Mary” when it was shown at the  Brooklyn Museum  in 1999 had
almost exactly the same ingredients: religious imagery, avant-
garde art, outraged believers, politicians. The point at issue
there was that Ofili’s painting, like many of his works, rests
on dried and varnished balls of elephant dung.  Actually, the Ofili scandal got more heated than this one,
eventually resulting in then New York Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani 
threatening to withhold the museum’s funding, and protesters
smearing paint over the picture and hurling horse manure at the
walls of the gallery. Otherwise, there are many points of
similarity. For example, you’d need to go out of your way to be
outraged by either of these works. Indeed, it would probably
require prior briefing and a special trip.  Camouflaged Dung  Unless you already know that Ofili’s pictures rest on
elephant dung, you’d scarcely guess. It looks like some sort of
wooden support. Similarly, I suspect that an exhibition
uninvitingly titled “Hide/Seek: Difference and Desire in
American Portraiture” (in which the Wojnarowicz video figured)
wasn’t going to attract the shockably devout in crowds.  We’ve grown used to this tedious kind of fuss. Take a step
back and it raises an interesting question: Why do people get so
angry about images? The immediate answer might seem obvious --
when they violate that person’s sense of how the world should
be. The danger areas are predictable: sex, politics and
religion.  In some times and places, you could get into a lot more
trouble for such a transgression than mere vilification. In
 Saddam Hussein ’s Iraq, it was a serious offense to deface the
currency. The BBC reporter  John Simpson  met a man who had been
dipped in a bath of acid for writing a telephone number on a
bank note bearing the president’s face.  Really Naked  Sexual images will stir up a rumpus too, of course. The
most celebrated row in art history, just about, broke out when
 Manet ’s “Olympia” was shown at the Paris Salon of 1865. Its
crime was not to depict a naked woman -- the Paris Salon was
crammed with sub-pornographic nudes -- but to do so in a novel
manner which made it seem uncomfortably real.  People weren’t just rude about “Olympia,” though there
was plenty of vituperation. If guards hadn’t been posted it
would probably have been torn to pieces by visitors to the
exhibition. Such rage, and all just over a painting! The more
you think about it, the stranger it is.  The sophisticates of the art world can feel it too.  David Hockney  relates that he met a curator who announced he hated
 Renoir  (presumably not because of sexiness, but for being
chocolate-boxy). Hockney was shocked. “If you hate poor Renoir,
who only painted some pictures,” he said, “what are you going
to say about  Hitler ?”  “Hide/Seek: Difference and Desire in American
Portraiture” runs through Feb. 13, 2011, at the National
Portrait Gallery, Washington, D.C. Information:
 http://www.npg.si.edu/ .  ( Martin Gayford  is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by  Lucian Freud .”
The  opinions  expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Martin Gayford  in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
Martingayford on  http://twitter.com.home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 