-- Asian Stocks Rise as U.S. Housing Data, ECB Debt Program Boost Growth Hope
-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-03T10:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/asian-stocks-rise-on-u-s-housing-data-ecb-loan-support-canon-bhp-gain.html
Asia’s benchmark  stock index  rose for
a third day as U.S. housing data and an extended emergency loan
program from the European Central Bank bolstered confidence in a
global economic recovery.  James Hardie Industries SE , the biggest seller of home
siding in the U.S., jumped 6.2 percent in Sydney. BHP Billiton
Ltd., the world’s No. 1 mining company, advanced 0.6 percent
after metal prices increased and crude climbed to a two-year
high yesterday.  Canon Inc. , the world’s largest camera maker
that gets about a third of its revenue from Europe, climbed 1.5
percent in Tokyo. Samsung Group units advanced in Seoul after
announcing a management reshuffle.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  advanced 0.6 percent to 132.78
as of 7:26 p.m. in Tokyo ahead of a U.S. report today that may
show employment expanded for a second month. About the same
number of stocks rose as fell. The index is on course for its
first weekly gain since declining for three straight weeks on
concern China will boost anti-inflation measures and amid rising
tensions between North and South Korea.  “The economic data is clearly improving,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages about $93 billion and is a unit of AMP Ltd.,
Australia’s second-largest asset manager. “U.S. housing is
showing signs of life and the employment trend is finally
looking encouraging. The easing of European debt concerns is
releasing a handbrake on markets.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  was little changed. South
Korea’s Kospi Index and Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index each
climbed 0.4 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.6 percent and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index was little changed after Xinhua News
Agency reported the country will adopt a “prudent” approach to
monetary policy from a “moderately loose” stance in place
since late 2008.  U.S. Home Sales  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  slipped 0.1
percent today. The index climbed 1.3 percent yesterday in New
York, led by financial shares after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
raised its rating on the industry.
      James Hardie  jumped 6.2 percent to A$6.20 in Sydney,
capping five straight days of gains. Techtronic Industries Co.,
maker of Hoover vacuum cleaners and Ryobi power tools that made
76 percent of its revenue in North America last fiscal year,
surged 5.8 percent to HK$9.11 in Hong Kong.  Pending sales of U.S. existing houses jumped by a record 10
percent in October, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday. That compares with a median estimate by 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg for a 1 percent drop. Separate reports
showed claims for jobless benefits over the past month on
average dropped to a two-year low, and that November chain-store
sales exceeded estimates.  The Asia Pacific gauge surged 1.7 percent yesterday after
reports showed U.S. payrolls and manufacturing climbed, while a
report this week also showed that China’s manufacturing activity
grew at the fastest pace in seven months in November.  ‘Positive Surprise’  “The increase in pending home sales was a positive
surprise,” said  Juichi Wako , a senior strategist at Tokyo-based
Nomura Holdings Inc. U.S. employers added 150,000 jobs last
month, according to economist projections compiled by Bloomberg
before the release today. An increase of 151,000 jobs in October
was the biggest gain since May.  A measure of material stocks tracked on the Asia Pacific
gauge rose for the third day this week after the London Metal
Exchange Index of prices for six industrial metals including
copper and aluminum rose 1.6 percent yesterday, also a third
consecutive advance.  Oil, Metals  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
climbed 1.7 percent to A$86.42 in Sydney. BHP Billiton, which is
also Australia’s biggest oil producer, gained 0.6 percent to
A$44.59 as crude oil for January delivery jumped 1.4 percent in
New York yesterday to $88 a barrel, the highest settlement since
Oct. 8, 2008.
      Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore oil producer,
increased 1.1 percent to HK$17.74, and Jiangxi Copper Co.,
China’s No. 1 producer of the metal, increased 0.2 percent to
HK$24.10.  Canon added 1.5 percent to 4,110 yen in Tokyo after
European Central Bank policy makers meeting in Frankfurt
yesterday delayed the bank’s exit from emergency liquidity
measures as a sovereign-debt crisis threatens to engulf Portugal
and Spain.  Billabong International Ltd., the Australian surfwear maker
that gets about 23 percent of sales from Europe, gained 5.2
percent to A$8.90 in Sydney. Esprit Holdings Ltd., a clothier
that receives most of its revenue from Europe, climbed 0.9
percent to HK$38.50 in Hong Kong.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  increased 9.6 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 9.5 percent by the S&P
500 and 7 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Shares in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14.6 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 14.3 times for the S&P 500 and 12.1 times
for the Stoxx 600.  In Seoul, Samsung Group units rose after the management
reshuffle, which includes the promotion of the founder’s
grandson, was announced.  Samsung Electronics Co. , Asia’s biggest
maker of chips, flat screens and mobile phones, rose 4.1 percent
to 894,000 won in Seoul. Hotel Shilla Co., an affiliate company,
gained 3.4 percent to 30,200 won.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;
 Toshiro Hasegawa  in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 