-- U.S. Stocks, Commodities Gain as Dollar Drops After Jobs Data
-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2010-12-03T06:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/asian-stocks-rise-for-third-day-as-won-gains-on-recovery-signs-euro-drops.html
Asian stocks rose for a third day and
the won led the region’s currencies toward a weekly gain before
a report on U.S. payrolls that may add to evidence the global
recovery is strengthening.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  added 0.6 percent to 132.76 at
3 p.m. in Tokyo, on course for a 3 percent gain this week.
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures slid 0.2 percent. The won
strengthened 0.9 percent to 1,138.55 per dollar. The euro was
headed for a fourth weekly loss against the dollar on concern
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will signal
today the bank won’t take further steps to stem the region’s
sovereign debt crisis. Gold advanced as China increased imports.  Stocks are rebounding from three weeks of losses before
reports today that may show U.S. payrolls gained for a second
month and European retail sales increased after data on home
sales and retail purchases in the world’s largest economy topped
estimates. Trichet will speak at ECB’s monthly news conference
after the central bank yesterday kept its benchmark interest
rate at a record low and extended an emergency loan program.  “The economic data is clearly improving,” said  Nader Naeimi , a Sydney-based strategist at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages about $93 billion. “U.S. housing is showing signs
of life and the employment trend is finally looking encouraging.
The easing of European debt concerns is releasing a handbrake on
markets.”  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.4 percent while
Taiwan’s Taiex index gained 0.5 percent.  James Hardie Industries
SE , the biggest seller of home siding in the U.S., jumped 6.2
percent.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. , the world’s largest
contract maker of electronics, added 3.2 percent after saying it
will boost its investments in China by more than $330 million.  ‘Proactive’ Policy  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.2 percent.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the world’s largest lender by
market value, dropped 0.9 percent after the Xinhua News Agency
reported that China will adopt a “proactive” fiscal policy and
strengthen flexibility of macroeconomic controls next year.  In the U.S., employers added 150,000 workers last month
after a 151,000 gain in October, a separate Bloomberg survey
showed before the Labor Department report today. Data yesterday
showed pending sales of U.S. existing houses unexpectedly jumped
by a record 10 percent in October, following a 1.8 percent drop
in September, while claims for jobless benefits over the past
month on average dropped to a two-year low.  Retail sales  in the 16-nation euro area rose 0.2 percent in
October from September, when they slipped a revised 0.1 percent,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
European Union’s data today.  Bond Risk  The cost of insuring Asian bonds with credit-default swaps
fell, according to credit-default swap traders. The Markit
iTraxx Asia index of 50 investment-grade borrowers outside Japan
dropped 4 basis points to 109 basis points, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc prices show. The risk benchmark is heading
for its lowest close since Nov. 24, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 3 basis points to
111 while the Markit  iTraxx Japan index  fell 0.5 basis point to
97, according to Morgan Stanley and RBS.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia Dollar Index  was set for a 0.7
percent gain this week as improving economic growth data and a
rally in stocks drew foreign purchases. South Korea’s won was
headed for a 1.8 percent advance for the week while Thailand’s
baht has gained 0.5 percent this week.  The euro was at $1.3208 from $1.3209 in New York yesterday,
having lost 0.3 percent this week. The single currency traded at
110.52 yen from 110.73 yen, down 0.8 percent this week. The yen
was little changed at 83.67 per dollar from 83.82.  Europe’s Periphery  Trichet yesterday said the ECB will keep mopping up extra
liquidity from its bond purchases, triggering a surge in bonds
across the euro region’s periphery. The yield on Portuguese 10-
year debt dropped 51 basis points to 6.12 percent and Irish
yields fell 38 basis points to 8.75 percent.  Concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen has shifted to
Portugal and Spain since Nov. 28, when the region’s governments
gave Ireland an 85 billion-euro ($112 billion) rescue package.
Standard & Poor’s said yesterday it may cut Greece’s long-term
sovereign rating as proposed European Union rules threaten to
hurt bondholders.  “The ECB’s measures do not fully address liquidity or
solvency concerns that have damaged market sentiment,” said
 Yuki Sakasai , a currency strategist at Barclays Bank Plc in
Tokyo. “We suspect this points to further euro weakness for the
time being, although the chances of a sharp decline have been
reduced by continued progress on sovereign issues.”  Gold Imports  Gold for immediate delivery rose 0.5 percent to $1,391.55
an ounce, boosting this week’s gain to 2 percent. China’s gold
imports jumped almost fivefold in the first 10 months from the
entire amount last year as concern about inflation increased
gold’s appeal, the Shanghai Gold Exchange said yesterday.  China central bank adviser  Xia Bin  urged the nation to
consider adding to its gold reserve as a long-term strategy to
pave the way for the yuan’s internationalization, according to a
commentary in the China Business News today.  Prices of other metals and crude oil retreated after a
surge yesterday. Zinc slipped 0.9 percent to $2,240 a metric ton
on the London Metal Exchange after yesterday jumping 4.6 percent,
the most in four months. Crude slipped 0.3 percent to $87.73 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after rising to close
at a two-year high yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ;
 Shani Raja  in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  