-- Massey Says CEO Don Blankenship to Retire Dec. 30, Phillips to Take Over
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r   a n d   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2010-12-04T01:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/massey-energy-says-don-blankenship-to-retire-as-chief-executive-dec-30.html
Massey Energy Co.  Chief Executive
Officer  Don Blankenship  will retire as of Dec. 31, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. Massey President  Baxter F. Phillips Jr . will succeed him as CEO, the company said.  Blankenship, 60, has worked at Massey for 28 years and
served as chairman and chief executive since Nov. 30, 2000, the
Richmond, Virginia-based company said. Admiral  Bobby Inman , 79,
lead independent director on the Massey board, will become non-
executive chairman.  Last month, Massey, owner of the Upper Big Branch mine in
West Virginia where 29 people died in April, said its board of
directors ordered a review of strategic alternatives, a process
that may lead to a sale. Blankenship emerged as the face of the
company in public disagreements with U.S. regulators following
the mine accident.  “We were certainly surprised to see the announcement that
Don Blankenship was retiring given that Don’s name and Massey
are closely synonymous,’ said  Jeremy Sussman , an analyst at
Brean Murray Carret & Co. in New York.  Massey climbed 17 cents, or 0.3 percent, to $50.42 today in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The retirement
announcement came out after the close of trading. The shares had
fallen 35 percent before an Oct. 18 Wall Street Journal report
that the company was considering a sale. The stock has surged 42
percent since on speculation that the company will be taken
over.  Potential Acquisition  Acquisition inquiries began earlier this year after the
April 5 accident at the Upper Big Branch mine near Montcoal,
West Virginia. The mishap was the worst U.S. coal mining
disaster in 40 years.  Blankenship, who began his career with the company as an
office manager in 1982, has expressed reservations about the
company’s potential sale. Last month, he said merger and
acquisition options would be “fully vetted” when the board met
at the Greenbrier Resort in White Sulphur Springs, West
Virginia, Nov. 21.  “After almost three decades at Massey it is time for me to
move on,” Blankenship said in the statement today. “Baxter and
I have worked together for 28 years and he will provide the
company great executive leadership.”  Massey’s Reserves  Massey, a company that’s been operating for 94 years, is
the largest coal producer in Central Appalachia with 2.8 billion
tons of reserves, 1.3 billion of which are metallurgical coal,
used to produce steel.  In October, it reported a net loss of $41.4 million for the
third quarter, citing lower productivity amid increased
regulatory scrutiny following the Upper Big Branch accident.  Blankenship lives in Sprigg, West Virginia, on the grounds
of Massey’s Rawl Sales & Processing Co., near the West Virginia
border with Kentucky, a region where the Hatfields and McCoys
fought their legendary feud. He went to high school in Matewan,
West Virginia, a town that was the site of one of the bloodiest
labor battles in U.S. history.  Last month he said the company would encourage Congress to
force the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration to allow
more widespread use of scrubbers.  His battles haven’t been limited to regulators. The United
Mine Workers Union and unions from seven states protested and
called for his ouster at the company’s annual shareholder
meeting in May and  today hailed his retirement  as a “step away
from the negative image that has cast a pall” over the
industry.  Talented Leader  His peers regard him as one of the industry’s most talented
leaders. The company’s  revenue  has tripled in the last 10 years
to $2.69 billion last year. At the same time he’s become one of
coal’s most outspoken supporter.  “Don thinks his convictions are morally correct and
follows them,”  Chris Cline , principal owner of Foresight Energy
LLC, said in an interview earlier this year. “In some ways,
people should admire it. They should also think, ‘Maybe there’s
a way to not be a bull in a china shop.’”  Blankenship has a  Twitter account  to post messages railing
against regulation and environmental activists.  “I’m a competitionist,” he wrote in an August 9 tweet.
“You have to let the American worker go on the playing field
with a chance to win.”  The company initially said Blankenship’s retirement would
be effective as of Dec. 30. It issued a second statement saying
the date was Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mario Parker  in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;
 Samantha Zee  in San Francisco at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at  