-- AstraZeneca Raided By European Antitrust Officials
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2010-12-03T17:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/astrazeneca-among-drugmakers-raided-by-european-union-in-generics-probe.html
AstraZeneca Plc , the U.K.’s second-
biggest drugmaker, and Nycomed A/S were raided by European Union
antitrust officials as part of a probe into whether companies
colluded to keep cheaper copies of medicines off the market.  The European Commission said it raided the premises of “a
limited number of” pharmaceutical companies that may have
slowed the sale of generic medicines. AstraZeneca said
inspections at its premises concerned the ulcer drug  Nexium .  “We have the responsibility to ensure that consumers are
not charged unjustified bills for their medical needs,” said EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , in the text of a
speech in Brussels today. “I will continue to enforce with
determination competition rules in the pharmaceutical sector.”  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between branded-drug makers and
generic manufacturers might harm consumers. Makers of generics
are vying for a share of the ulcer-treatment market after
AstraZeneca lost European patent protection on Nexium sales in
March. The pill had sales of $912 million in western Europe,
out of a worldwide total of $3.74 billion, in the first nine
months of this year.  The commission “has reason to believe” that the companies
“may have acted individually or jointly, notably to delay
generic entry for a particular medicine,” the EU executive,
which declined to name the drugmakers, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “This could be a potential violation of EU
antitrust rules.” The raids took place Nov. 30, it said.  Delays to Generics  The commission said in a  report  last year that companies
use a variety of techniques to delay “for as long as possible”
the introduction of generics.  “This shows that the commission is serious in pursuing the
issues it raised in its pharma-sector investigation,”  Lesley Ainsworth , a partner in London with law firm Hogan Lovells, said
by telephone.  AstraZeneca has an appeal pending at the EU’s top court
against a 2005 decision by the commission to fine it for
flouting antitrust rules to keep generic competitors off the
market.  The commission “may be trying to make an example of
companies like AstraZeneca in order to deter other companies
from implementing similar practices,” Robert Vidal, a partner
in the London office of law firm Taylor Wessing LLP, said in an
e-mail.  ‘Cooperating’  “We can confirm we are subject of inspections by certain
competition authorities which relate to alleged practices
regarding esomeprazole (Nexium) in Europe,” AstraZeneca, based
in London, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are cooperating
with the authorities.”  AstraZeneca faced generic competition in Germany during the
third quarter from companies including Teva Phamaceutical
Industries Ltd. and Ratiopharm GmbH. Teva, the world’s biggest
maker of generic drugs, agreed in March to buy Ratiopharm.  Yossi Koren , a spokesman for Petah Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, declined to comment on the EU probe. Ratiopharm wasn’t
visited by antitrust officials, said spokesman  Markus Braun .  Two German sites of closely held Nycomed were raided by
antitrust officials,  Beatrix Benz , a spokeswoman for the Zurich-
based company, said in an e-mail. The company will “fully co-
operate with the authorities,” she said.  ‘Big Deal’  “It’s almost impossible to know if this is a big deal or
not,” Gbola Amusa, an analyst at UBS AG in London, said in a
telephone interview today. “We don’t know what AstraZeneca has
in their offices. We’ve seen big raids like this over the past
decade, and they generally haven’t been linked to market
underperformance.”  AstraZeneca yesterday won a U.K. ruling blocking Slovenian
generic-drug maker Krka Group d.d. from joining a case filed by
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. over patents for the ulcer treatment.  Krka, Slovenia’s biggest drugmaker, said it wasn’t involved
in the EU probe.  Drugmakers are “acutely aware” of antitrust rules,  Andrew Witty , chief executive of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc , said at a
conference in Brussels today. Patents are “continuously being
tested” in the courts and “that’s what keeps the system
healthy.”  Glaxo wasn’t involved in the antitrust probe, said David
Daley, a spokesman for the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker.  Amelia Torres , a commission spokeswoman, declined to
comment beyond the statement. Colin Mackay, a spokesman for the
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries & Associations,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Brunsden  in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 