-- Australian Regulator Cites Oil Leak for Qantas Trent 900 Engine Explosion
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 2010-12-03T05:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/australian-regulator-cites-oil-leak-for-qantas-trent-900-engine-explosion.html
Australia’s aviation regulator said
an oil leak in a  Rolls-Royce Group Plc  engine was the likely
cause of an explosion that forced a  Qantas Airways Ltd.  Airbus
SAS A380 to make an emergency landing in Singapore last month.  An oil fire was “central to the engine failure,” the
Australian Transport Safety Bureau said in its preliminary
 report  on the Nov. 4 explosion. While investigations are
continuing, the regulator has issued a safety recommendation for
Rolls-Royce and airlines to carry out checks and modify engines
where the issue appears.  A misaligned pipe caused by a manufacturing defect in the
Trent 900 powerplant caused the oil leak that ultimately led to
an explosion that sent shrapnel through the plane’s wing, the
ATSB said. The regulator said it was satisfied with Qantas’s
actions, which included an immediate grounding of its six A380s
following the explosion and inspections.  “Given no one was aware the potential problem existed, it
is highly unlikely that any maintenance would have been able to
establish the problem,” ATSB Chief Commissioner Martin Dolan
told reporters in Canberra today.  Rolls-Royce said in an e-mailed statement today the
regulator’s findings are “consistent” with its own public
statements and the London-based engine-maker will continue to
work with authorities to ensure compliance.  The engine explosion over Indonesia forced the Qantas A380
to make an emergency landing in Singapore. None of the 469
passengers and crew onboard were injured, the regulator said.  ‘Loud Bangs’  The flight crew reported  hearing  two “loud bangs” as the
plane was still climbing after takeoff, with the aircraft’s
monitor showing an overheating warning for its number 2 engine
turbine, the report said.  As the pilots reduced thrust in the engine, a radio call
was made to Singapore’s Changi airport indicating there may be a
problem and fire extinguishers were deployed on the affected
powerplant.  It took the crew about 50 minutes to complete all the
procedures associated with the engine message and to test
controllability of the plane before beginning a descent into
Singapore less than two hours after takeoff.  “The aircraft wouldn’t have arrived safely in Singapore
without the focus and effective action of the flight crew,”
Dolan said today.  Flights Resumed  Qantas resumed passenger superjumbo flights on Nov. 27, and
the carrier now has two in service.  The  airline  said it welcomed the ATSB’s findings. The
carrier has completed the new recommended checks on one of the
planes back in service while inspections on the second have
started, Sydney-based Qantas said in a statement today.  The carrier has replaced five engines to meet the latest
standards and another 11 will also either need to be modified or
changed, it said. Qantas said it “continues to work closely”
with  Rolls-Royce , Airbus and regulators on the Trent 900.  More than a dozen Australian investigators have been
piecing together shrapnel from the explosion over Indonesia,
with the regulator passing on its findings to counterparts in
Europe and Singapore.  The ATSB expects to release the final report within a year
of the incident, it said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Fenner  in Canberra 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  