-- Australia May Avenge World Cup Loss to Qatar by Taking Lead in LNG Contest
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2010-12-03T04:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/australia-may-avenge-world-cup-loss-to-qatar-in-global-lng-race.html
Australia, defeated by Qatar in a bid
to host the 2022 World Cup soccer tournament, may overtake the
Persian Gulf nation in liquefied natural gas production in 10
years, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst  Neil Beveridge  said.  LNG output in Australia may increase to 80 million metric
tons a year by the end of the decade from 20 million tons a year
now, the Hong Kong-based analyst said in a telephone interview
today. Depending on how many projects are approved, Australia
may vault to first among LNG producers and surpass Qatar, he
said. Australia was fourth-largest in 2009, behind Qatar,
Malaysia and Indonesia, according to BP Plc data.  “Australia is in a sweet spot,” Beveridge said. “The
expansion we’re going to see over the next 10 years will be very
significant and will take Australia into a competitive position
with Qatar as the world’s largest supplier of LNG.”  Soccer’s governing body awarded Qatar, holder of the
world’s third-largest gas reserves, the 2022 tournament
yesterday after a secret vote at FIFA’s headquarters in Zurich,
defeating the U.S., Japan, South Korea and Australia. Hosting
the event is worth about $5 billion, according to U.S.
estimates.  A projected glut of LNG won’t last as Asia, the Middle East
and Latin America drive global demand higher by an average 8
percent annually over the next five years, Bernstein analysts,
including Beveridge, wrote in a report today. Australia will
benefit the most as consumption rises and supply is limited
partly because of a moratorium on new ventures in Qatar, the
report said.  Cost Overruns  Chevron Corp.  is advancing with the A$43 billion ($42
billion) Gorgon LNG project off northwest Australia, and  BG
Group Plc  on Oct. 31 said it would proceed with a $15 billion
LNG venture in Queensland.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd . is due to
start the A$14 billion Pluto development in August 2011,
converting gas to liquid form for export.  The Australian LNG industry faces threats to that projected
growth, Bernstein’s Beveridge said. “The big issue is around
the potential for cost overruns and delays,” he said. “But
there isn’t a lot of competition out there to Australia.”  Australia was selected to host a global LNG conference in
2016 that’s expected to attract more than 4,000 participants
from 70 countries, Western Australia Premier  Colin Barnett  said
last month. Qatar also was under consideration for the event,
which Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson  said is the world’s
biggest LNG conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 