-- Baucus Drops Higher Private-Equity Levy From Tax Bill
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-12-04T00:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/tax-boost-for-hedge-fund-executives-dropped-from-bill-by-senate-s-baucus.html
Executives at investment partnerships
including private-equity firms and hedge funds have won a four-
year battle with congressional Democrats over increasing taxes
on a large portion of their pay.  U.S. Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a
Montana Democrat, omitted a provision to boost tax rates on so-
called carried interest from a bill to extend 2001 and 2003 tax
cuts for middle-income Americans that is set for a Senate vote
tomorrow. The bill also would renew dozens of expired business
tax breaks to which the carried interest proposal had been
attached as a budget-balancing measure.  The omission closes the door on efforts by Democrats to
change the tax treatment of carried interest. Carried interest
is the compensatory share of an investment partnership’s profits
that fund managers receive as part of their pay. The pay can
qualify for the 15 percent capital gains tax treatment even
though it’s a return on labor rather than capital invested.  “I think, for all practical purposes, it’s in a deep coma,
not to come out until the discussion of tax reform,” said  Clint Stretch , managing principal at Deloitte Tax LLP, a Washington
consulting firm. “It looks like it’s dead for this year.”  Democrats’ Priority  Since winning control of Congress in 2006, Democrats have
made taxing such income at ordinary rates a priority. The House
voted in May to tax three-quarters of carried interest as wages.
While the Senate trimmed it back to a 50-50 split in June,
objections from Republicans and some Democrats blocked the
proposal from being considered on the floor.  The Obama administration has proposed taxing carried
interest as ordinary income in each of its annual budget
proposals.  Barring inclusion of the tax proposal in a deal between the
White House and congressional Republicans over extending Bush-
era tax cuts set to expire Dec. 31, the omission from Baucus’s
bill is a victory for private equity firms such as  Blackstone
Group LP  and  KKR & Co.  These firms have lobbied against the
changes, along with groups including the  National Venture
Capital Association  and the  Real Estate Roundtable .  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone, declined to comment
on the proposal.  Republicans, who oppose the tax increase, take control of
the House in January, when a new session of Congress begins.  ‘Never Say Never’  “Never say never, but the odds are moving more and more in
our direction that this Congress will not pass carried interest
legislation, which directly impacts venture capital,” said  Mark Heesen , president of the National Venture Capital Association.  The proposal may arise again in another session of Congress
as lawmakers look for ways to bring the  federal budget deficit 
under control and seek revenue-raising measures.  “There’s always a possibility that something gets
resurrected,” said Mike Jackson, managing director in charge of
the private wealth practice at  LECG Inc. , in Devon, Pennsylvania.
That’s especially the case with carried interest, he said,
because it “affects so few people.”  The Baucus bill would renew a package of dozens of tax
breaks that lapsed last year. They include a research-and-
experimentation credit used by thousands of companies, including
Palo Alto, California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co.  and Cedar Rapids,
Iowa-based  Rockwell Collins Inc .  Poison Pill  The carried interest provision has been a poison pill
preventing renewal of those measures on a stand-alone basis. In
the Senate, about a half-dozen Democrats were united with all
Republicans in opposing the changes. As recently as last week,
Baucus told reporters that he was having trouble finding enough
support for the tax increase.  The Baucus bill also drops a number of changes to
international tax laws fought by multinational companies such as
 International Business Machines Corp.  and business such as the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Objections to those changes in the
Senate also were impeding passage of the business tax breaks.  Other major business breaks allow companies such as  General
Electric Co.  to defer U.S. tax on income earned from certain
lending overseas.  For individuals, Baucus’s measure would renew popular tax
breaks such as a deduction for state and local sales taxes paid.
That would add a deduction for residents of states with no
income tax, such as Texas, Florida and Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  