-- Baucus Seeks to Prevent Year-End Transfers of Assets to Beat Estate Taxes
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r
-- 2010-12-04T16:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/baucus-seeks-to-prevent-year-end-transfers-of-assets-to-beat-estate-taxes.html
Senator  Max Baucus  is pushing a
proposal intended to prevent wealthy taxpayers from transferring
assets to family members before year’s end and pay less in gift
taxes than the levy they would face after they die.  The Senate today in a procedural vote rejected the measure,
introduced Dec. 2 by Baucus, a Montana Democrat who heads the
Finance Committee. Under the proposal, the existing 35 percent
gift tax would increase to 45 percent for transfer until the end
of the year.  The Baucus proposal may still become law as part of a
compromise to extend Bush-era tax cuts that expire Dec. 31. It
would remove an incentive to pass along fortunes to children and 
grandchildren before year-end to lock in a historically low gift
tax rate. Such transfers could represent savings of as much as
40 percent on taxes at death that are scheduled to take effect
in 2011.  “There are a significant number of people across the
country who are contemplating year-end gifts,” said  Carol Harrington , head of the estate planning group at the McDermott
Will & Emery LLP law firm in Chicago. The Senate’s move “may
disperse some people, it may make some people stop and see what
Congress is going to do.”  The taxation of large estates is one of six major elements
being negotiated by the White House and Congress in talks on
extending lower tax rates set in 2001 and 2003 on income,
capital gains, and dividends. As part of the 2001 law, the
estate tax was phased out and allowed to expire for 2010 only.
Unless Congress acts, taxes will increase across the board on
Jan. 1.  Tax-Cut Battle  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Republicans have
been locked in a battle for two years over whether to extend tax
policies that primarily benefit individuals who earn over
$200,000 and couples that earn more than $250,000.  Obama said this week said he’s “optimistic” and
“confident” that the disagreement will be resolved before the
end of the year. Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , a Republican,
said Dec. 2 that negotiators are likely to propose a two-year
extension of lower income tax rates for all taxpayers, including
those with higher incomes.  It’s less clear how Congress will resolve the estate tax
issue. That levy is set to jump from zero this year to 55
percent on Jan. 1 for fortunes worth more than $1 million at
death. Though there was no estate tax this year, Congress
retained a 35 percent gift tax to prevent lifetime transfers of
wealth from escaping tax as well.  Gift Taxes  Gift taxes have long been matched with estate taxes to
prevent the wealthiest Americans from ducking the Internal
Revenue Service after death. Americans can give away a total of
$13,000 to as many people as they want in any year, including
2010, without any tax consequence. Gifts to any one person
exceeding $13,000 must be reported to the IRS and count toward a
$1 million lifetime tax-free allowance. When the $1 million
allowance is spent, gifts historically have been taxed at the
same rate as estates. This year is the exception.  Baucus’s bill, which was rejected in a procedural vote
today, sought to reinstate the estate tax retroactively for 2010
using the top 45 percent rate and $3.5 million per individual
tax-free allowances that existed in 2009. The tax-free allowance
would be increased to adjust for inflation starting in 2011.  Taxable gifts made between Jan. 1 and Dec. 2 would face a
top tax rate of 35 percent. Gifts made after Dec. 2 would be
taxed at 45 percent if the bill language is enacted into law.  Capital Gains Tax  The heirs of Americans who died between Jan. 1, 2010, and
Dec. 2 could elect to pay zero estate tax, although they would
face a complicated capital gains tax calculation if they were to
sell inherited assets. While the capital gains tax rate
generally is 15 percent, gains on sales of collectibles are
taxed at a 28 percent rate.  Baucus’s bill may figure in a final deal between the White
House and Congress on the tax-cut extensions.  Harrington said lawmakers would effectively give up revenue
by stopping year-end gifts, which is a taxable event. Given the
budget situation, she said, the provision may be amended.  “People do these things voluntarily” when they decide to
pay taxes on gifts, she said. “They’re going to give up a lot
of revenue immediately” if the proposal is enacted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  