-- Bolivian Senate Approves Nationalization of $3 Billion Pension Fund System
-- B y   S a r a   S h a h r i a r i
-- 2010-12-03T19:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/bolivian-senate-approves-nationalization-of-3-billion-pension-fund-system.html
Bolivia’s Senate approved President
 Evo Morales ’ plan to nationalize the pension system and lower
the retirement age in the South American country.  The move, approved late last night, will transfer
administration of Bolivia’s pension funds from  Futuro de Bolivia
S.A. , managed by Switzerland’s  Zurich Financial Services AG , and
Prevision S.A., managed by Spain’s Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, to state entity Gestora Publica de la Seguridad
Social de Largo Plazo, Viviana Arinez, a Finance Ministry
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Press officials at Zurich Financial Services and Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria didn’t immediately respond to e-mail
and phone messages left by Bloomberg. The pension system had
about $3 billion in assets, Buenos Aires-based news website
Infobae reported, without saying where it obtained the
information.  The takeover is the latest by the 51-year-old Morales, who
took office in 2006 vowing greater state control over the
economy. Morales enacted a new constitution last year that calls
for increased government control over the country’s natural
resources and utilities. Earlier this year he nationalized four
power generating utilities.  Morales will sign the bill into law within days, according
to Bolivian  state newswire ABI . The move comes two years after
neighboring Argentina took over its $24 billion private pension
fund industry.  The legislation calls for subsidies to boost the retirement
benefits of low-income workers who contribute to the system and
lowers the retirement age to 58 for men and as low as 55 for
women with children from a previous age of 65, according to the
Finance Ministry and ABI. Miners could retire as early as 51.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sara Shahriari  in La Paz at 
 sshahriari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  