-- Bond Supply Near 5-Year High as Build America Deadline Looms: Muni Credit
-- B y   A l e x a n d r a   H a r r i s   a n d   B r e n d a n   A .   M c G r a i l
-- 2010-12-03T14:32:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/bond-supply-near-5-year-high-as-build-america-deadline-looms-muni-credit.html
U.S. states’ and municipalities’
scheduled debt sales approached the highest since 2005 this week
as issuers seek to take advantage of the federally subsidized
Build America Bond program before its potential year-end expiry.  The  30-day visible-supply index  of new municipal issues
reached $26.3 billion on Nov. 16, the highest since February
2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The index dropped
to $17.6 billion today.  Of the $11.3 billion of debt states and local governments
are offering this week, about $4.2 billion are taxable Build
Americas, the third-most since August 2009, Bloomberg data show.
With such federally supported programs set to expire Dec. 31
unless lawmakers agree to an extension, supply may increase,
said  Justin Hoogendoorn , a bond strategist at BMO Capital
Markets in Chicago.  “It won’t be a normal year-end,” he said. “There’s every
incentive to come in and get funding.”  Since Nov. 1, the taxable securities have made up about 35
percent of total municipal issuance, compared with about 23
percent a week since the program began in April 2009, Bloomberg
data show.  Thirty-year tax-exempts sold off from Oct. 25 through Nov.
18 when California cleared its sale of $10 billion in notes,
with yields gaining about 77 basis points, or 0.77 percentage
point, according to the  Bloomberg Valuation index.  Bond yields
move inversely to price.  ‘Cash Supply’  December won’t see the same kind of surge in yield even
with a supply jump because bonds that matured Dec. 1 will
provide investors with cash to make more purchases, said  Matt Dalton , chief executive officer at Belle Haven Investments Inc.
in White Plains, New York, which has $450 million in municipal
assets.  “The maturities have created a healthy cash supply at the
end of the year that will soak up a lot of the maturities,”
Dalton said.  Yields on 10-year tax-exempts fell  less than  a basis point
yesterday even as 10-year Treasury yields rose above 3 percent
for the first time since July.  The extra yield investors demand for Build Americas above
30-year Treasuries was  195 basis points  yesterday, down a basis
point from a three-month high on Nov. 30, according to the Wells
Fargo index.  Build Americas  A bill pending in the Senate would extend the Build America
Bond program through 2011 while paring the subsidy to 32 percent
of the interest cost from 35 percent. Almost $173 billion of the
taxable debt has been sold since the program began in April 2009
as part of the economic-stimulus package.  If extended, total 2011 municipal issuance would be about
$395 billion, compared with $345 billion if the program ends,
 Alex Roever  and  Chris Holmes , strategists at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. , said in a research note Nov. 24.  The bill would reduce the advantage of issuing Build
Americas instead of tax-exempt securities by shrinking the
subsidy 3 percentage points, the analysts said.  “A subsidy reduction of this magnitude, keeping other
factors constant, would only modestly reduce the volume of BAB
issuance from current levels,” they said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brendan A. McGrail  in New York at 
 bmcgrail@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexandra Harris  in New York at 
 aharris48@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  