-- Bovespa Posts Biggest Weekly Gain in a Month on Outlook for Interest Rates
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2010-12-03T20:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/bovespa-heads-to-weekly-advance-as-bank-move-eases-higher-rate-concern.html
The  Bovespa  stock index rose for a
third day, capping the biggest weekly gain in a month, as the
Brazilian central bank’s measures to cool inflation spurred
traders to pare bets for higher borrowing costs.  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas , Latin America’s largest
brewer, and  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo , Brazil’s largest online
retailer, both jumped the most in a month, leading gains among
companies that benefit most from domestic demand.  “If this has the effect of reducing the next cycle of
monetary tightening, on balance it would help the stock
market,” said  Oliver Leyland , who helps oversee $1.1 billion at
Mirae Asset Global Investments Brasil in Sao Paulo.  The  Bovespa  gained 0.3 percent to 69,766.09 at the 3 p.m.
New York time close, for a weekly advance of 2.3 percent, the
largest since Nov. 5. Forty stocks rose on the index while 27
fell. The real strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.6963 per dollar.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge rose yesterday as
industrial output expanded at the fastest pace in three months,
overshadowing concern that higher borrowing costs will restrict
credit growth.  The nation’s central bank raised the reserve requirement on
time deposits to 20 percent from 15 percent and an additional
requirement for cash deposits will climb to 12 percent from 8
percent, according to a statement distributed in Brasilia today.  Higher Reserve Requirements  Banks will be required to use more capital to back consumer
loans that exceed 24 months. The higher reserve requirement will
remove 61 billion reais ($35.9 billion) from the economy.  In response to the central bank’s measures, traders pared
bets for increases in borrowing costs. The yield on the
interest-rate futures contract due April 2011 fell the most
since January 2009, plunging 0.29 percentage point to 11.07
percent.  AmBev , as the brewer is known, rose 3.3 percent to 238.99
reais. B2W advanced 4.6 percent to 34.50 reais, the highest
close since May.  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais  led a rally for utilities
on speculation President-elect  Dilma Rousseff  will maintain
government policies on the industry. The state-controlled
electricity utility serving Minas Gerais state rallied 3.1
percent to 29.60 reais. Rousseff’s biggest coalition partner
wants former Energy Minister  Edison Lobao  to return to his post,
a party member familiar with the plans said earlier this week.  Investors expect Rousseff to name Lobao to the ministry,
signaling policy continuity that will ensure government
investment, said  Rosangela Ribeiro , an analyst at SLW Corretora.  Banks Decline  Advances on the index were limited as lenders tumbled, with
 Banco Santander Brasil SA  leading industry declines after
central bank chief  Henrique Meirelles  said reserve requirements
are being raised to a level slightly tighter than before the
2008 global credit crunch.  “In the short term, clearly banks are going to come under
pressure, because lending growth is to some extent going to be
affected,” Leyland said.  Santander, the Brazilian unit of Spain’s largest lender,
tumbled 3.3 percent to 22.58 reais while  Banco do Brasil SA ,
Latin America’s biggest bank by assets, dropped 2.7 percent to
32.60 reais.  The  Bovespa  dropped as much as 0.8 percent early in the day
after a report said employers in the U.S., Brazil’s second-
biggest trading partner, added fewer jobs than forecast in
November and the unemployment rate unexpectedly increased, a
signal the economy may be faltering.  Payrolls increased 39,000, less than the most pessimistic
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after a revised
172,000 increase the prior month, Labor Department figures
showed in Washington. The jobless rate rose to 9.8 percent, the
highest since April, while hours worked and earnings stagnated.  The  Bovespa  trades for 15.6 times analysts’ 2011 earnings
estimates after gaining 1.4 percent this year before today. That
compares to a ratio of 13.2 for the  Shanghai Composite Index ,
which has slipped 13.3 percent. Russia’s  Micex  trades at 7.2
times next year’s profit after a 20 percent gain, while India’s
 Sensex  trades at a ratio of 15.7 and is up 14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alexander Cuadros  in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  