-- Brazil Bank Stocks Fall After Reserve Levels Raised to Slow Credit Growth
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2010-12-03T21:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/brazil-raises-reserve-requirements-to-remove-36-billion-from-circulation.html
Brazilian banks fell in Sao Paulo
trading after the central bank raised reserve and capital
requirements to slow consumer lending growth that’s running at
20 percent annually and prevent a credit bubble.  Banco Santander Brasil SA, the Brazilian unit of Spain’s
biggest bank, declined 3.3 percent to 22.58 reais at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo at 3 p.m. New York time. Banco do Brasil
SA, Latin America’s biggest bank by assets, fell 2.7 percent to
32.60 reais. The benchmark Bovespa index gained 0.3 percent.  The central bank took into account the “solvency” of
Brazil’s financial system when deciding to take today’s
measures, said President  Henrique Meirelles . The move is being
made a month after Grupo Silvio Santos took a 2.5 billion reais
($1.5 billion) loan to bail out Banco Panamericano SA, the
nation’s 21st largest by assets.  “The rapid expansion of credit levels in an economy may
lead to the occurrence of excesses by economic agents,”
Meirelles told reporters today in Brasilia. “This measure is
prudential, therefore, reduces liquidity in the financial
markets and inhibits the formation of non-sustainable trends,
the bubbles.”  Reserve requirements on time deposits will rise to 20
percent from 15 percent and an additional requirement for non-
interest bearing accounts will climb to 12 percent from 8
percent. The moves will remove 61 billion reais ($36 billion)
from circulation, the central bank said today. Banks will also
be required to use more capital to back consumer loans that
exceed 24 months. The measures take effect Dec. 6.  ‘Less Capacity’  “For banks this is definitely bad,” said  Otavio Vieira ,
who helps manage 1.5 billion reais ($886.8 million) at Safdie
Private Banking in Sao Paulo. “They’re going to have less
capacity to concede credit.”  Banco Panamericano SA slipped 1.1 percent to 4.55 reais
while rival Banco ABC Brasil SA tumbled 3.6 percent to 16.00
reais.  Outstanding consumer credit rose 1.8 percent in October
from September, to a record 743.5 billion reais ($438 billion).
Credit rose to a record 47.2 percent of gross domestic product,
from 46.7 percent in September.  Brazil joins the People’s Bank of China in tightening
policy to head off inflationary pressure as domestic demand
expands. That contrasts with policies in developed nations,
where the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the
Bank of Japan are buying assets to shore up their economic
recoveries. Brazilian inflation is quickening as the economy
grows at the  fastest pace  in more than two decades.  Rate Increase  “It would be prudent to not dissociate these macro-
prudential measures from conventional monetary policy actions,”
Brazilian central bank President  Henrique Meirelles  told
reporters in Brasilia. “They are complementary channels used in
different situations.”  Meirelles said today’s measures will help slow  inflation ,
prompting traders to reduce bets the central bank will raise
interest rates this month for the first time since July from
10.75 percent.  The yield on the January 2011 contract, the most traded
today, dropped 15.4 basis points, or 0.154 percentage point, to
10.685 percent.  Consumer price increases, as measured by the IPCA-15 index,
accelerated to 5.47 percent in the year through mid-November,
the highest since March 2009. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazil’s retail sales expanded for a fifth straight month
in September on record low unemployment and credit growth. Sales
rose 0.4 percent in September from August, and were up 11.8
percent from a year earlier, beating the 11.1 percent median
forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Unemployment 
fell to 6.1 percent in October.  Avoid ‘Exaggerations’  “Of course, this will raise the price of credit a little
bit, but during this moment of expansion it is opportune,”
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said, according to an audio file
e-mailed by the ministry. “Credit has risen a lot lately,
demand is at a satisfactory level. We have to avoid
exaggerations, so the measures were very adequate.”  China has lifted reserve requirements five times this year,
with the latest taking effect on Nov. 29. Turkey’s central bank
said Nov. 29 that it may make “more active” use of reserve
requirements to stem foreign currency inflows.      Peru’s central
bank has raised its benchmark lending rate five times this year
and increased reserve requirements to prevent inflation from
accelerating beyond the government’s target range.  ‘Political Demand’  Brazilian President-elect  Dilma Rousseff , who takes office
Jan. 1, will resort to all possible measures to contain
inflation before lifting the overnight rate,  Roberto Padovani ,
chief economist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said.  Rousseff will rely on measures to reduce liquidity and to
contain public spending before raising rates, Padovani said.  “There is a political demand for lower interest rates,”
said Padovani, who expects Brazil’s next central bank president,
 Alexandre Tombini , to keep rates unchanged next year. “There is
also a short term technical issue -- avoiding interest rate
increases to avoid a further appreciation of the real.”  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva told reporters in Rio
de Janeiro that he is “very worried” about the strength of the
Brazilian real.  The real has more than doubled against the U.S. dollar
since Lula took office in 2003, becoming the best performer amid
the 16 most traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The real
rose 0.6 percent to 1.6870 per U.S. dollar.  ‘Macroeconomic Implications’  Brazil, the world’s eighth-largest economy, will expand
7.55 percent this year, according to a central bank survey of
about 100 economists published Nov. 29.  The same survey showed that economists expect the central
bank to raise the benchmark interest rate by 150 basis points,
or 1.5 percentage points, next year, starting with a 50 basis
point increase in April.  “Although these are prudential measures in nature, one can
affirm with a reasonable degree of certainty that they will have
macroeconomic implications, having an impact on the credit
market in its quantitative dimension and also via prices,”
Meirelles said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andre Soliani  in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  