-- Brazil Fight on Crime Unites Police, Army in Border Patrol, Minister Says
-- B y   A l i n e   F e r n a n d e s
-- 2010-12-03T16:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/brazil-fight-on-crime-unites-police-army-in-border-patrol-minister-says.html
Brazil is deploying police, soldiers
and aircraft to patrol borders in its biggest drive ever to curb
the smuggling of arms and drugs and prevent criminals from
crossing country boundaries, Justice Minister  Luiz Barreto  said.  Operation Sentinel, a security drive on the borders with
Bolivia, Peru, Colombia and Paraguay, will continue for an
indefinite period, Barreto said in an interview in Sao Paulo.
Armed forces are exchanging intelligence with police and 1,433
officers and soldiers are monitoring roads, rivers and lakes.  President  Luiz Inacio Lula  da Silva has sought to integrate
efforts to fight crime in Latin America’s biggest economy as his
policies stoke growth and the country prepares to host the 2014
soccer World Cup and the 2016 summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.  “Federal and state police are aligned in their strategies
to fight organized crime,” the minister said. “There’s no end
date for this operation.”  Lula last week authorized armed forces to deploy tanks,
helicopters and 800 soldiers to Rio de Janeiro amid gang attacks
that set more than 100 cars on fire across the beachside city in
a week and shootings with police that killed at least 37 people.
A 2,700-strong security force took over Rio’s biggest crime
stronghold on Nov. 28, ending three decades of drug rule in the
dozen hillside shanty towns known as Complexo do Alemao.  The takeover of the area was the first time state and
federal police joined forces with the Army and Navy to fight
crime in Rio slums.  Arrests and Seizures  On the borders, Operation Sentinel has arrested 1,649
people through October, the federal police department said in an
e-mailed statement. The force has seized 55 metric tons of
marijuana, about half a ton of cocaine, as well as 1,429
vehicles and 270 weapons.  Sao Paulo state’s police and federal officers are also
coordinating to patrol roads linking Sao Paulo and Rio after the
takeover of Alemao, Sao Paulo Urban Security Secretary Edsom
Ortega said in an interview.  The federal roads police department is monitoring roads in
the Northeast of Brazil to prevent criminals from escaping from
Rio to the region, spokesman Alexandre Castilho said by
telephone from Brasilia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aline Fernandes  in Sao Paulo at 
 afernandes23@bloomberg.net ;
 Carlos Caminada  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  