-- Broadband's Kinnucan Says He Was Subpoenaed in U.S. Insider Trading Probe
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   B a u m g a e r t e l   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-12-03T18:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/broadband-s-kinnucan-says-he-was-subpoenaed-in-u-s-insider-trading-probe.html
John Kinnucan , the analyst who
refused to cooperate with an FBI request to wiretap clients,
said he was subpoenaed as part of a federal probe into possible
insider trading.  The information request was delivered today and seeks e-
mails, financial and trading records, client contracts and other
documents for the past two years, Kinnucan said in a telephone
interview. Kinnucan said he’s cooperating and has not been
accused of any wrongdoing.  “I’m happy to do it because I think it’s going to
demonstrate my innocence,” he said in the interview. News of
the subpoena was reported earlier today by Business Insider.  Kinnucan, whose Portland, Oregon-based Broadband Research
LLC provides research on technology companies to hedge funds and
mutual funds, told clients in October that he was visited by
federal officials, who asked him to secretly tape a conversation
with a fund manager they were targeting. Kinnucan, who wouldn’t
name the manager, refused to tape the conversation.  Kinnucan said he sent the e-mail to about 50 people.
Clients including Wellington Management Co. in Boston,  Janus
Capital Group Inc.  in Denver and SAC Capital Advisors LP in
Stamford, Connecticut, have since received subpoenas. None has
been accused of any wrongdoing.  Galleon Case  The U.S. crackdown on insider trading began last year with
the arrest of Raj Rajaratnam, founder of Galleon Group LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund. The probe, led by the U.S. Attorney’s
office in Manhattan, initially focused on fund managers and
corporate executives, with 14 people pleading guilty. Rajaratnam
has denied wrongdoing and faces trial next month in Manhattan
federal court.  The investigation expanded to analysts and so-called
expert-network firms with the Nov. 24 arrest of Don Ching Trang
Chu, an executive at Primary Global Research LLC, a Mountain
View, California-based company that connects investors with
industry specialists who provide insight into a specific market.
Chu was fired by the Mountain View, California-based company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  