-- Brummer Said to Start Asian Event Hedge Fund With Ex-Millennium's Collison
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2010-12-03T05:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/brummer-said-to-start-asian-event-hedge-fund-with-ex-millennium-s-collison.html
Brummer & Partners, the largest
Scandinavian hedge fund, plans to start an event-driven fund
that seeks to profit from events such as mergers in the Asia-
Pacific region, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The Stockholm-based firm has teamed up with  Scott Collison ,
a former portfolio manager at Millennium Management LLC’s Asian
business, to start Orvent Asset Management Pte in Singapore to
manage the fund, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the information is private. Collison, Orvent’s chief
investment officer, declined to comment.  The fund will start in January with about $150 million in
initial capital from Brummer & Partners, the people said. It
will be the second Asia-focused strategy that Brummer & Partners,
which manages $10 billion, will invest in through its
multistrategy fund after it put an initial $50 million into a
long-short fund managed by Karakoram Asset Management Pte in
2009.  The  Brummer & Partners Multi-Strategy Fund , a global
portfolio of the firm’s hedge funds, gained 2.5 percent this
year through October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Event-driven strategies focusing on Asia returned 9.9 percent
this year, outperforming the average Asian hedge fund’s gain of
6.9 percent, according to Singapore-based industry data provider
Eurekahedge Pte.  Market Neutral  Event-driven funds are among strategies that currently
appeal to investors, leading to a “larger proportion of such
launches” this year, GFIA Pte said in its latest monthly
newsletter.  “Event-driven funds are popular because they can give
strong equity-like returns without the correlation to markets,”
said  Peter Douglas , principal of Singapore-based GFIA, which
advises investors seeking to allocate money to hedge funds and
runs a wealth-management business. “Each trade is stock- or
situation-specific.”  Orvent will have a market-neutral approach by hedging its
bets on company events, the people said. The strategy will trade
securities affected by events such as announced mergers,
earnings surprises, corporate reorganizations and changes to
equity index components, the people said.  Millennium, Rubicon  Collison, 42, was portfolio manager of an internal fund
focusing on Asian equity event-driven and arbitrage strategies
at Israel Englander’s Millennium in Singapore. He previously
managed Rubicon Asset Management’s Rubicon Asia Special Events
Fund and was before that an equities and derivatives trader
specializing in the region’s markets at Credit Suisse Group AG
in Hong Kong, New York and Sydney.  Investors with the ability to provide “substantial seed”
capital would invest in managers with a “good track record of
managing substantial amounts of hedged capital for good
clients,” GFIA’s Douglas said.  Institutional investors are paying more attention to the
organizational and risk management setups of managers they
allocate money to. There should also be confidence that the
manager’s strategy would work in the current climate, Douglas
said.  Orvent’s prime brokers are Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, the people said. Collison and
two other portfolio managers own 50 percent of Orvent, while
Brummer & Partners holds the remaining stake, the people said.  Orvent will be the 11th fund worldwide in the Brummer &
Partners platform, according to the people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Netty Ismail  in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  