-- Build America Extension Added to Senate Tax-Cut Bill
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-03T20:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/build-america-bond-program-extension-added-to-senate-bill-on-bush-tax-cuts.html
A one-year extension of the U.S.
Build America Bond program, the fastest-growing segment of the
$2.8 trillion municipal-debt market, was included in a Senate
bill to maintain expiring tax cuts for middle-income Americans.  In the latest move to keep the subsidy alive, U.S. Senate
Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat,
 included it  with extensions of dozens of other tax breaks set to
end. A continuation of the bond program hadn’t been contained in
previous bills to prolong the income-tax cuts, the dominant
issue facing Congress before the current session concludes.  The subsidy, which expires Dec. 31, was created by
President  Barack Obama ’s 2009 economic-stimulus plan. More than
$173.5 billion of the taxable securities have been sold,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. pays 35
percent of the interest costs on the debt. The Senate bill would
cut that rate to 32 percent. Republicans may oppose the measure
because it doesn’t extend breaks for the wealthiest taxpayers.  “It still all hinges on whether the president and
Republicans in the Senate reach some kind of deal,” said  Jim Currie , the director of federal relations for the Lexington,
Kentucky-based  National Association of State Treasurers .  There’s no guarantee the provision won’t be dropped later,
Currie said by telephone from his Washington office. “The
Senate rules are that there are no rules,” he said. “They can
pretty much do whatever they want.”  Republican Insistence  Republicans have insisted that tax cuts enacted during
President  George W. Bush ’s first term be extended across the
board. They may have enough Senate votes to stall passage of the
bill unless it is changed to include levies that apply to
couples with incomes of more than $250,000 a year.  With Republicans poised to take control of the House of
Representatives in January, local governments, banks and other
advocates of the bond program are pressing to have it extended
in the current, so-called lame-duck session.  Republicans including U.S. Representative  David Camp , who
is in line to become chairman of the tax-writing Ways & Means
Committee, have been critical of spending under Obama’s
$814 billion stimulus package. Democrats, who now control the
House, have passed measures to prolong the Build America
program, only to see the bills stall in the Senate.  Speculation that the program would lapse has weighed on the
municipal bond market because of concern that its demise would
boost the amount of money state and local governments raise with
traditional tax-exempt debt. Like taxable corporate bonds, Build
Americas carry higher interest rates, making them attractive to
investors beyond those seeking a shelter from U.S. income taxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  