-- Build-A-Bear Seeks Buyer, Approaches Private-Equity Firms
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-12-03T21:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/build-a-bear-workshop-is-said-to-seek-buyer-approach-private-equity-firms.html
Build-A-Bear Workshop Inc. , the chain
of make-your-own stuffed animal stores, is seeking a buyer and
has approached private-equity firms, according to three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Barclays Capital is advising the company, said two of the
people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private. The St. Louis-based retailer had a  market value  of
about $117 million as of yesterday’s close.  Sales  at Build-A-Bear, which operates more than 400 stores,
peaked at $474.4 million in 2007 before the recession sapped
consumer demand for toys. By last year, sales had dropped to
$394.4 million. To spur growth, Build-A-Bear is offering its
stuffed animal kits at arts-and-crafts chain Michaels Stores
Inc. and bookseller Borders Group Inc.  Spokesperson Shannon Lammert of Build-A-Bear declined to
comment.  The shares rose $1.95, or 33 percent, to $7.91 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Before today, the
shares had risen 22 percent this year.  Maxine Clark , who refers to herself as “chief executive
bear” on the company’s website, opened the first store in 1997.
The company became a staple at U.S. malls and expanded to other
continents, including stores in Cape Town, Dubai and Tokyo.  Private-equity firms are venturing back to retail as
consumer spending shows signs of recovering. Twenty-six retail
and restaurant deals have been announced this year, compared
with 21 during the previous year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lauren Coleman-Lochner  in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Kelly  in New York at 
 Jkelly14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  