-- Bundesbank Raises Forecast for German Economic Growth This Year to 3.6%
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2010-12-03T10:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/bundesbank-predicts-fastest-german-growth-since-reunification.html
The Bundesbank raised its forecast
for German economic growth this year, projecting the fastest
expansion since data for a reunified country began in 1992.  Gross domestic product will expand 3.6 percent in 2010, 2
percent in 2011 and 1.5 percent in 2012, the Frankfurt-based
central bank said in its bi-annual economic outlook today. In
June, the Bundesbank predicted growth of 1.9 percent this year
and 1.4 percent next year, though in October it said the economy
may expand “more than 3 percent” in 2010.  “The recovery in the German economy will continue in the
next two years following the impressive catching-up process in
the current year,” the  Bundesbank  said. “Exports will remain
the main driving force behind the upturn, although external
impulses will have a growing impact on domestic activity.”  Germany’s recovery is broadening as companies increase
hiring to meet export orders, stimulating consumer spending.
That’s widening the gap with euro-area peers such as Greece,
Ireland, Portugal and Spain, which are struggling with a
sovereign debt crisis. German  business confidence  surged to a
record high in November and  retail sales  jumped the most in
nearly three years in October as  unemployment  fell to the lowest
level in 18 years.  The euro rose to $1.3266 after the Bundesbank projections
were published from $1.3245 beforehand.  More Jobs  Unemployment “should continue to decline,” the Bundesbank
said, predicting the rate may drop to 6.9 percent in 2012 from
7.5 percent currently.  While growth slowed to 0.7 percent in the third quarter
from a record 2.3 percent in the second, household spending
became one of the main drivers. The Berlin-based DIW institute
said on Nov. 29 that the economy, Europe’s largest, will
maintain its pace of growth in the current quarter.  “Private consumption is benefiting from growing employment
and higher wages,” the Bundesbank said. “Investment in
machinery and equipment as well as in construction is also being
given a boost by low interest rates.”  At the same time, “inflation remains within bounds
compatible with stability,” it said, forecasting it will
average 1.1 percent this year, 1.7 percent next year and 1.6
percent in 2012.  The European Central Bank, which yesterday set its
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent for a 20th
month, aims to keep inflation across the 16 euro nations just
below 2 percent.  Stocks Rally  Germany’s benchmark  DAX stock index  has gained more than 16
percent this year, compared with a decline of 6 percent in the
Euro Stoxx 50 gauge of euro-area equities. German  investor
confidence  rose for the first time in seven months in November
as the economy powered ahead of its neighbors.  Euro-area governments’ efforts to consolidate their budgets
may still damp German growth by reducing demand for its exports.
Ireland on Nov. 28 became the second euro nation after Greece to
get a bailout from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund , and investors are  speculating  Portugal could be next.  “Downside risks in terms of the projection originate from
the persistent uncertainties in the financial markets due to the
fragile position of public finances in a number of industrial
countries,” the Bundesbank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Vits  in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  