-- Cairn India Output Boost May Be Delayed a Few Months
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2010-12-03T19:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/cairn-india-s-rajasthan-oil-production-increase-delayed-by-vedanta-review.html
Cairn India Ltd. ’s plans to boost oil
output by 20 percent from its Mangala field may be delayed past
the end of the year as approval for the project remains under
review by the Indian government, Chief Operating Officer  Rick Bott  said.  The company previously said it thought it would secure
approval and be able to increase output to 150,000 barrels a day
from 125,000 by the end of December,  Bott  said in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  “At this point in time, that decision is still in the
technical, regulatory approval process,” he said in a phone
interview today. “We don’t anticipate that we’re going to get it
by the end of the year, but it could come at any time.”  The Indian government also is reviewing Vedanta Resources
Plc’s $9.6 billion bid for the company.  “This is the pain companies sometimes have to bear when
such a big deal is awaiting approvals,” said  D.K. Aggarwal , who
manages about $100 million as chairman of SMC Wealth Management
Services Ltd. in New Delhi. “Not raising production may be
significant from a quarterly earnings point of view, but in the
long term, output will go up if there is oil in the ground.”  Cairn India still plans to bring total output from Mangala
and other fields in the state of Rajasthan to 175,000 barrels a
day by the second half of next year, Bott said yesterday.
Mangala is the largest onshore oil find in India in more than 20
years, according to Cairn India’s  website .  Fourth-Largest Consumer  Cairn India  shares  fell 0.4 percent to 323.10 rupees at the
close in Mumbai trading. The stock has gained 15 percent this
year compared with a 14 percent increase in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index .  India is the world’s fourth-largest consumer of oil and
imported about 70 percent of its crude last year, according to
the  U.S. Energy Department . Cairn India was spun off from  Cairn
Energy Plc  in 2007 and is based in Gurgaon, about 30 kilometers
(19 miles) south of New Delhi.  Under the company’s production-sharing contract, the
government can limit the output rate from the field to ensure
the resource isn’t drawn down too quickly, Bott said.  “Our reserves are holding up, a lot of good news is coming
out of the reservoirs,” Bott said. “It’s a safe and prudent
thing to do to be able to extract the oil at a little bit
quicker rate.”  The Rajasthan area has the potential to produce 240,000
barrels to 250,000 barrels of oil a day, Bott said.  February Decision  Vedanta, a London-based mining company, agreed in August to
pay as much as $9.6 billion for Cairn Energy’s majority stake in
the Indian affiliate. India’s government will decide by February
on  Vedanta ’s bid, Oil Secretary  S. Sundareshan  told reporters in
New Delhi on Nov. 29.  Nigerian Bonny Light  crude, the basis for Cairn’s selling
price, rose 87 cents to $92.95 a barrel at 11:51 a.m. today New
York time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has
averaged $80.27 a barrel so far this year, up 48 percent over
the same period in 2009.  With output at 125,000 barrels a day, the Rajasthan fields
account for about 85 percent of Cairn India’s production, all of
which is sold into the domestic market since India is a net
importer of energy, Bott said. Customers include  Indian Oil
Corp.  and  Reliance Industries Ltd.   The company intends to drill the first of three exploratory
wells for a deep-water lease off Sri Lanka next year, Bott said.  Cairn India has hired a Japanese rig and expects to drill
three wells at a cost of $50 million each in the offshore
program, its first outside India, Bott said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Rakteem Katakey  in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 