-- Cantor's Chief Says Stocks Are Cheap, Time to Sell Treasuries
-- B y   T o m   K o h n
-- 2010-12-03T10:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/cantor-s-chief-says-stocks-are-cheap-time-to-sell-treasuries.html
Stocks look better value than bonds
as dividends rise above Treasury yields and corporate profits
improve, said Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. Chief Executive Officer
 Shawn Matthews .  “Between the two, the equity market is cheap,” Matthews
said in an interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “You’re looking at
very strong companies with great balance sheets and a lot of
cash, and dividend yields that are much higher than the risk-
free rate.”  Stocks  rose  for the first week in four this week before a
report on U.S. payrolls that may add to evidence the global
recovery is strengthening. Treasury yields were near the highest
level since July before the report that is forecast to show
employers added jobs for a second month.  Ten-year Treasuries yield 2.99 percent. That’s less than
some of the world’s largest companies.  Johnson & Johnson , the
world’s No. 1 maker of health-care products, has a dividend
yield of 3.45 percent while  Chevron Corp. , the second-biggest
U.S. energy producer, yields 3.41 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. AT&T Inc.’s dividend yield is 5.88 percent.  “The opportunity in Treasuries has probably passed,”
Matthews said. “It’s now just a carry trade where people are
looking for a currency play or for safety. I would certainly
look to sell into strength, rather than being a buyer on
weakness.”  Inflation is a risk in coming years as central banks keep
printing money, he said. “There’s a misnomer that fixed income
are safe instruments. You’ll see a very bad year in the next few
years.”  “The economic recovery is region by region,” Matthews
said. “Asia is clearly going through a growth spurt that will
continue for the foreseeable future.”  Cantor, the capital markets dealer that started an
investment banking business in 2008 is expanding, Matthews said.
The New York-based firm, one of the 18 primary dealers
authorized to trade U.S. government securities with the Federal
Reserve, plans to hire 200 people in Europe over the next two
years, and will hire about 100 people in Asia. 