-- Carlsberg Gets Final Government Approval to Increase China Brewery Stake
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T04:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/carlsberg-gets-final-approval-to-increase-china-brewery-stake.html
Carlsberg A/S  received the final
approval from China’s government to boost its shareholding in
 Chongqing Brewery Co. , paving the way for further expansion in
the world’s most population nation.  China’s Ministry of Commerce approved Chongqing Brewery’s
proposal to sell a 12.25 percent stake to Carlsberg, the Chinese
company said in a statement to Shanghai’s stock exchange
yesterday. The Hong Kong unit of Copenhagen-based Carlsberg will
pay 2.39 billion yuan ($359 million) to boost its holding in
Chongqing Brewery to 29.7 percent.  The transaction does not require further regulatory
approval,  Deng Wei , board secretary of Chongqing Brewery, said
today by phone, without giving a timetable for completion of the
purchase. China’s State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission approved the transaction last month.  Carlsberg is among global beermakers expanding their
investments in the world’s biggest producer of the alcoholic
beverage.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV , the world’s largest brewer,
controls Harbin Brewery Group Ltd.  SABMiller Plc , the second-
largest brewer in the world by volume, owns 49 percent of Snow
Breweries, its joint venture with China Resources Enterprise Ltd.  Beer production increased 7 percent to more than 40 million
kiloliters in China last year, making it the world’s top
producer, according to Tokyo-based Kirin Holdings Co. Chongqing,
in southwestern China, is the country’s largest municipality
with a population of 28.6 million.  Chongqing Brewery  shares  fell 3 percent to 71 yuan at the
11:30 a.m. break in Shanghai. The benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index slid 0.5 percent.  -- Michael Wei . Editors:  Chua Kong Ho ,  Garry Smith .  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  