-- Jim Carrey's Gay Con Man Hired as CFO; Creepy Durst Mystery: Rick Warner
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2010-12-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/carrey-s-gay-con-man-hired-as-cfo-creepy-durst-mystery-movies.html
Willie Sutton said he robbed banks
“because that’s where the money is.” Steven Russell stole for
a different reason.  “Being gay is really expensive,” Russell ( Jim Carrey )
explains in “ I Love You Phillip Morris ,” a quirky dramedy
based on a true story about the con man, bon vivant and prison-
escape artist.  It’s a good part for Carrey, whose previous attempts at
melding comedy and drama have mostly fallen flat. Here he gets
to dig into a sympathetic role that doesn’t limit him to
caricatures or making rubber faces.  Though he’s a devious criminal, Russell’s prison escapes
and most of his illicit activities are motivated by his desire
to be with his lover Phillip Morris ( Ewan McGregor ), an inmate
he meets while serving time for insurance fraud.  With a fair amount of raunchy humor, writer/directors Glenn
Ficarra and John Requa detail the colorful escapades that got
Russell in and out of prison, including posing as a lawyer and
faking a resume to get a job as a chief financial officer.  The film, based on a book by Steve McVicker, opens with
Russell living placidly as a married cop with a daughter and an
ultra-religious wife. He has an epiphany following a car crash
and decides to come out of the closet, leave his family and move
to Miami, where he finances his lavish lifestyle by collecting
insurance for fake accidents.  Cooking the Books  Russell and Morris live together after being released from
prison, where Morris was sent for failing to return a rental
car. Russell then cooks the books as CFO of a Texas company,
using purloined funds to buy sports cars and other luxuries.
That leads him back to prison, where he concocts an AIDS-related
scheme to get out.  Don’t look for a happy ending. The real Russell is
currently serving a 144-year sentence in Texas, where he spends
all but one hour of each day in solitary confinement.  “I Love You Phillip Morris,” from Roadside Attractions,
is playing in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco. Rating:
***  ‘All Good Things’  Creepy real-estate heir  Robert Durst  is the thinly veiled
subject of “ All Good Things ,” a thriller in which very bad
things happen to people close to him.  His wife disappears, a longtime friend is murdered and a
neighbor’s body parts are found floating off Galveston, Texas,
where Durst has been hiding out disguised as a mute woman.  Director  Andrew Jarecki  (“ Capturing the Friedmans ”) has
enough macabre material for a slasher film and an impressive
cast led by  Ryan Gosling ,  Kirsten Dunst  and  Frank Langella . Yet
the film gets bogged down with tabloid details and pop
psychology better suited for a TV crime show.  Gosling plays David Marks, who like Durst was traumatized
as a child by witnessing his mother’s suicide. After marrying
Katie (Dunst) and moving to Vermont to run a health-food store,
David is pressured by his strong-willed father (Langella) to
return to New York and join the family business.  Arguments over whether to have children and David’s
increasingly bizarre behavior cause Katie to hire a divorce
lawyer. She disappears soon after, and David claims he has no
idea where she is.  He later moves to Galveston and befriends a drifter ( Philip Baker Hall ), whose cut-up corpse is discovered in the local bay.
Meanwhile, a female friend of David’s is killed execution-style
in her Los Angeles home just before she’s scheduled to talk to
authorities about Katie’s disappearance.  I won’t tell you what happened to Durst, except to say that
he isn’t in a cell next to Steven Russell.  “All Good Things,” from Magnolia Pictures, is playing in
New York and Dec. 10 in Los Angeles. Rating: **1/2  ( Rick Warner  is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 