-- Cathay CEO Tyler Bequeaths Closer China Ties, Higher Stock Price
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2010-12-03T18:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/cathay-pacific-airways-names-slosar-as-chief-after-tyler-leaves-for-iata.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd.  Chief
Executive Officer  Tony Tyler  will leave after three years in the
job having navigated the slump, extended the carrier’s reach in
China and outshone Singapore Airlines Ltd. in the stock market.  Tyler, 55, will depart the world’s third-biggest airline by
market value to become head of the International Air Transport
Association trade body, according to a statement yesterday.
He’ll be replaced by Chief Operating Officer  John Slosar .  During his time as CEO, Tyler has spent billions of dollars
on planes from Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. while returning Cathay
to profit following the first loss in a decade as deeper ties to
mainland China helped it weather the recession. That has helped
shares of the carrier  jump  21 percent since he became chief on
July 1, 2007, compared with a 10 percent drop at  Singapore Air.   “Beyond all the other challenges involved in running an
airline, Tyler has had to manage the relationship with China,”
said  Tim Coombs , managing director at Aviation Economics in
London. “Cathay was an offshoot of a big British trading company
with a massive history, and he had to manage it into something
quite different culturally and from a business point of view.”  Tyler joined Cathay Pacific in 1978 and rose to become COO
in 2005 before replacing  Philip Chen  as CEO. His resignation
will take effect on March 31 and the executive will join IATA on
July 1, succeeding  Giovanni Bisignani , the Italian former CEO of
Alitalia SpA who has held the post since 2002.  ‘Good Choice’  “Tyler is a good choice for IATA, bringing an Asian
perspective,” said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst and
director of JLS Consulting Ltd. “It will be good to have a
growing part of the world more strongly represented.”  Cathay said on Nov. 15 that its net income will more than
double to a record HK$12.5 billion ($1.6 billion) this year as
Asian travel demand rebounds from the slump. The carrier posted
a profit in 2009 after falling demand and wrong-way bets on fuel
prices pushed it to a HK$8.7 billion loss a year earlier.  The stock has gained 63 percent this year, valuing the
company at HK92.8 billion. That’s the sixth-best performance on
the 15-member Bloomberg Asia Pacific Airlines Index and the best
outside mainland China. Singapore Air has advanced 5.6 percent.  Tyler has expanded Cathay’s reach by boosting ties with Air
China Ltd., with which it’s due to commence a cargo venture in
the next month that will give access to hubs in Beijing and
Shanghai. Air China, the nation’s largest international carrier
and world No. 1 by market value, raised its stake in Cathay to
30 percent last year. Cathay owns a 19 percent reciprocal stake.  ‘Diplomat’  Coombs of Aviation Economics said Tyler has shown himself
to be “a very good communicator” in his dealings with China,
while  John Leahy , sales director at Airbus, said in a telephone
interview that the executive has “renowned diplomatic skills”
that will make him “a great asset” for IATA.  Cathay announced the purchase of 30 Airbus A350-900 wide-
body planes on Aug. 4 after choosing the model over the Boeing
787 Dreamliner. It also ordered six 777s from the U.S. company.  Tyler delayed plans for a new freight hub in Hong Kong by
two years to 2013 last year as he cut costs to withstand the
global recession. He also parked freighters, offered staff
unpaid leave and slashed capacity at mainline passenger
operations and local unit Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd. Tyler,
Slosar and Chairman  Christopher Pratt  also waived their bonuses.  Demand has rebounded in 2010, with Cathay’s passenger total
increasing 9.2 percent over the first 10 months and cargo
volumes up 20 percent, putting it on track to surpass Korean Air
Lines Co. as the world’s No. 1 international cargo carrier.  ‘Difficult Period’  “He’s had quite a difficult period, there’s no doubt about
that, but it’s now coming back in a big way in what is probably
one of the few markets that’s going to come into ascendency over
the next 20 to 30 years,” said  Laurie Price , director of
aviation strategy at Mott MacDonald Group Ltd. in London.  Tyler, himself a former IATA chairman, announced his exit
about three months after Singapore Air chose marketing chief  Goh Choon Phong  to succeed  Chew Choon Seng  as CEO at the year’s end.  “Tony’s leadership of Cathay Pacific through challenging
times prepares him well for the job,” said  David Bronczek ,
IATA’s chairman and the CEO of FedEx Express, the world’s
largest cargo carrier. “His global experience gives Tony the
right perspective for our global organization.”  Tyler, who was raised in Britain, said it will be “a
wrench” to leave Cathay but that he’s confident Slosar, 54,
“will lead the airline to even bigger and better things.”  Andrew Orchard , an analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in
Hong Kong, said Slosar’s involvement with day-to-day operations
at the airline makes him the “logical choice” to take charge.
Cathay will announce a successor to Slosar “in due course,” it
said in the statement.  “It will be a smooth transition and there won’t be drastic
changes,” said Orchard, who has a “buy” rating on Cathay.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Neil Denslow  in Hong Kong at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Rothwell  in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  