-- Chinatrust, Fubon, Ruentex Submit Bids for AIG's Taiwan Unit Nan Shan Life
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-12-03T10:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/chinatrust-financial-submits-bid-for-aig-s-taiwan-life-unit.html
Chinatrust Financial Holdings Co. ,
Ruentex Group,  Fubon Financial Holding Co.  and Cathay Financial
Holding Co. submitted bids for  American International Group
Inc. ’s Taiwan unit as the U.S. insurer tries for a second time
to sell the division.  Chinatrust submitted a bid after its board approved the
offer today, spokesman  Vanney Cho  said in a phone interview
without giving details. Fubon Financial also made an offer,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter who
declined to be identified.  Taiwan’s  Financial Supervisory Commission  on Aug. 31
rejected an application by a group led by Primus Financial
Holdings Ltd. and  China Strategic Holdings Ltd.  to buy AIG’s  Nan
Shan Life Insurance Co.  for $2.15 billion, citing concerns over
the bidders’ financial capability and long-term commitment to
operate the business. AIG has been trying for more than a year
to complete what’s expected to be its second-biggest disposal
since a September 2008 U.S. government bailout.  Ruentex Development Co.  and  Ruentex Industries Ltd.  said a
unit they control had made a bid for Nan Shan, according to
separate statements to the Taiwan stock exchange today. Ruentex
Group’s businesses span retail, textiles and property
development. Ruentex Industries owns a stake in RT-Mart China,
the country’s largest hypermarket chain by retail sales.  Cathay Financial , the island’s largest listed financial
services company, put in a bid today, according to an exchange
statement.  Amanda Chou , a spokeswoman for Nan Shan, said AIG declined
to comment, as did Wu Wen-wen, a communications manager for
Fubon.  AIG said Nov. 5 it expects to complete the sale of Nan Shan
within a year. Nan Shan, based in Taipei, was set up in July
1963 and was bought by American International Underwriters Ltd.,
the property and general insurance unit of AIG, in January 1970,
according to Nan Shan’s  website . The company has four million
policyholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Ong  at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  