-- China Should Consider Increasing Gold Reserves, Central Bank Adviser Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T05:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/china-should-consider-increasing-gold-reserves-to-boost-trade-in-the-yuan.html
China should consider adding to its
gold reserves as a long-term strategy to pave the way for the
yuan’s internationalization, central bank adviser  Xia Bin  wrote
in the  China Business News  today.  The country must revise its foreign- reserves  management
principle, Xia wrote. China is the world’s largest producer and
second-biggest user of gold and has a world-record $2.65
trillion in foreign-exchange reserves.  Gold is set for a 10th annual increase, the longest winning
streak since at least 1920, spurring central banks globally to
add the metal to reserves. China is allowing greater use of its
currency for cross-border transactions to reduce reliance on the
dollar, after Premier Wen Jiabao said in March he is “worried”
about holdings of assets denominated in the greenback.  “If China increases gold buying significantly to diversify
their foreign exchange reserves, that could affect the market,”
said Park Jong Beom, a trader at Tong Yang Futures Trading Co.
in Seoul.  Gold for immediate delivery increased 0.4 percent to
$1,390.32 an ounce at 12:49 p.m. in Shanghai, boosting this
week’s gain to 2 percent, as China’s imports increased and a
fall in the dollar boosted the appeal of the precious metal as
an alternative asset.  Imports of gold by China jumped almost fivefold in the
first 10 months from the entire amount shipped in last year, the
Shanghai Gold Exchange said yesterday. Shipments were 209 metric
tons compared with 45 tons for all of 2009, said exchange
Chairman Shen Xiangrong.  State Buying  “In the mid and longer term, of course, I think China is
the biggest bullish factor for gold prices,” Yuichi Ikemizu,
head of commodity trading at Standard Bank Plc in Tokyo, said,
referring to the gold imports by China. Still, “the advisors
are not the guys to decide policies of the central bank. They
can advise whatever they want and the percentage of gold in
foreign reserves is really small.”  The country increased gold reserves by 454 tons to 1,054
tons since 2003, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange
said last April. The metal only accounts for 1.6 percent of the
nation’s reserves held by the People’s Bank of China, according
to the World Gold Council. China doesn’t regularly publish gold-
trade figures and rarely comments on its reserves.  Bangladesh bought 10 metric tons of bullion from the
International Monetary Fund for about $403 million in September.
That followed a 200-ton purchase by India last year, as well as
reserve increases by other Asian nations including Sri Lanka.  Solvency  Building gold as the basis of solvency has been used
through history, PBOC adviser Xia wrote. Having a corresponding
amount of solvency is a necessary precondition and indispensible
safeguard in the long-term strategy for the internationalization
of the yuan, Xia wrote.  China also needs to set up a commission soon under the
State Council to make plans for investing its foreign reserves
overseas, Xia wrote. The investments should include oil,
resources, equipment and technology, Xia said.  The non-convertibility of the yuan is a major hurdle in
China’s efforts to become a “real financial power,” Bank of
China Ltd. Chairman Xiao Gang wrote in a commentary published in
today’s China Daily.  The Chinese currency will only become an international
monetary unit like the Euro or the dollar once it can be freely
converted into foreign currencies, Xiao wrote.  Yuan Transactions  Trade transactions settled in the yuan may rise to $3
trillion a year by 2015 as China pushes for the wider use of its
currency as an alternative to the dollar in business and
finance,  China Construction Bank Corp.  said Nov. 23.  China Construction Bank, which helped organize the biggest
number of bond sales in China this year, forecasts an increase
from the current $19 billion a year of yuan-denominated trade
transactions, or commercial deals primarily paid for and
financed using the yuan that don’t involve the dollar.  China should raise its gold holdings and the 1,054 tons of
reserves are inadequate compared with the 8,133 tons held by the
U.S. and 3,408 tons by Germany, Meng Qingfa, a researcher at the
China Chamber of International Commerce said on Oct. 27.  “China does not hold much gold in its reserves for now so
I cannot immediately see what impact it will have on gold
prices,” Tong Yang Futures’ Park said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  