-- China Needs to Raise Deposit Rates to 12-Year High on Inflation, Xie Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T03:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/china-needs-to-raise-deposit-rates-to-12-year-high-on-inflation-xie-says.html
China has to raise deposit rates by
“at least” 3 percentage points in the next 12 months to
protect investors faced with a negative return on their savings
as inflation accelerates, independent economist  Andy Xie  said.  “To ensure stability and curb inflation, the government
needs to compensate the savers, make them feel comfortable about
their bank deposits,” Xie, formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief
economist for the Asia-Pacific region, said in an interview in
Bloomberg’s Shanghai office. “But you don’t want to do it too
quickly. It could be half or one percentage point each time.”  A 300 basis point increase would raise the  benchmark
deposit  rate from 2.5 percent to 5.5 percent, the highest since
March 1998. Consumer prices will quicken to 6.2 percent by mid-
2011 after climbing 4.4 percent in October, according to Credit
Suisse Group AG. China’s  household deposits  totaled 29.9
trillion yuan ($4.5 trillion) in September, exceeding the
combined gross domestic product of Brazil, India and Russia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank raised deposit and lending rates by a
quarter of a percentage point each on Oct. 19, the first
increase since 2007, to curb inflation. The rate boost was four
to six months late, according to Yale University finance
professor  Chen Zhiwu , who said at the time policy makers need to
do more to combat rising prices.  The People’s Bank of China last month raised lenders’
reserve requirements twice to drain cash from the financial
system. The higher  reserve requirement ratio  won’t solve the
issue of negative real interest rates, Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. economist  Liu Li-gang  said Nov. 22.  ‘Too Much Power’  “The central bank has no real power in policy making,”
Xie said. “The government has too much power.”  The nation’s savings ratio stood at 54 percent of gross
domestic product in 2008, the highest among major economies in
the world, according to data compiled by the World Bank.  China should develop its capital markets and expand the
stock market to offer alternatives to bank deposits, according
to central bank adviser  Li Daokui .  “China’s bank savings remain at a very high level,” Li
said in an interview published yesterday in the overseas edition
of People’s Daily. “There could be potential risks for the
banks and the nation’s whole financial system if there happens
to be a large number of withdrawals suddenly.”  Gold Bars  Demand for gold has risen as concern about rising inflation
increased the metal’s appeal as a store of value. China’s gold
imports jumped almost fivefold in the first 10 months from the
entire amount shipped in last year, according to the Shanghai
Gold Exchange. About 70 percent to 80 percent of the imports in
the first 10 months were made into mini-gold bars, which Chinese
investors like to hold,  Shen Xiangrong , chairman of the bourse,
said yesterday.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced Nov. 17 a package of measures
to counter inflation, from the threat of price caps for “daily
necessities” to pledges to maintain the food supply by selling
state reserves. Chinese futures for commodities including cotton
sugar, rice and natural rubber have climbed to records in the
past two months.  The country’s stock market will struggle to advance given
the need for tougher measures to combat inflation, Xie said.  The  Shanghai Composite Index  has slumped 13 percent this
year, the most among Asian benchmark gauges tracked by Bloomberg,
on concern that lending curbs will hamper spending in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy. The gauge, tracking the
bigger of China’s two exchanges, lost 0.3 percent to 2,834.7 at
11:18 a.m.  “There’s no turn-around for China’s stock market in the
short-term, as the government’s intention to further tighten
policy is very clear,” Xie said.  -- Irene Shen . With assistance by  Yanping Li  in Beijing,
 Margaret Conley  in Shanghai and  Paul Panckhurst  in Hong Kong.
Editors:  Richard Frost ,  Darren Boey .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Irene Shen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3049 or
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  