-- China's Services Industry Grows at Slower Pace as Inflation Erodes Margins
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T03:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/china-s-services-industry-grows-at-slower-pace-as-inflation-erodes-margins.html
China’s  non-manufacturing purchasing
managers’ index  fell to a nine-month low in November as
accelerating inflation eroded service companies’ margins.  The index dropped to 53.2 from 60.5 in October, according
to a statement today by the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and the  Federation of Logistics and Purchasing . A
reading above 50 indicates an expansion. A separate service PMI
released by HSBC Holdings Plc fell to 53.1, a near two-year low.  Policy makers have raised benchmark interest rates and
banks’ reserve ratios, and threatened to impose price controls,
in a drive to rein in  inflation  that reached a two-year high in
October. Higher prices may challenge the government’s plan to
boost consumption, with a consumer confidence index last month
showing the first drop in six quarters because of rising costs.  “Inflationary pressure has started to show a negative
impact on service expansion,” the logistics federation said in
today’s statement. Faster gains in an input-price index than a
charged-price index indicated rising costs and narrowing profit
margins for service providers, the federation said.  The non-manufacturing measure encompasses business and
consumer services as well as construction and real estate. The
non-manufacturing new-order index fell to 50.1 last month from
56.3 in October, and new orders in consumer service industries
indicated a contraction, with a reading of 47, today’s data show.  The decline in the overall non-manufacturing PMI reflected
a “seasonal correction” after holiday spending the previous
month, Cai Jin, vice chairman of the  logistics federation  said
in the statement. Consumer spending usually surges during a
seven-day holiday in October.  Consumer Sentiment  A Chinese consumer confidence index dropped to 104 in the
third quarter from 109 in the previous three months, according
to a survey by Nielsen Co. and the Chinese  statistics bureau ’s
Economic Monitoring and Analysis Center released Nov. 17. A
total of 76 percent of the 3,500 consumers surveyed expected
prices to increase further over the next year.  A business-activity expectation index for the construction
industry stood at 60, lower than similar gauges for production
services and consumer services. New orders in real estate may
remain at “low levels,” today’s statement said. The government
has this year raised down-payment ratios and mortgage rates and
tightened lending and land rules to crack down on property
speculation.  Consumer prices gained 4.4 percent in October from a year
earlier as food prices jumped 10 percent, according to
statistics bureau data.  -- Li Yanping . With assistance from  Huang Zhe . Editors:  Chris Anstey ,  Paul Panckhurst .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  