-- China Vanke Sales Surpass Target for 2014 as Growth Defies Property Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T09:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/china-vanke-sales-surpass-target-for-2014-as-growth-defies-property-curbs.html
China Vanke Co.  became the first
Chinese developer to post annual sales of 100 billion yuan ($15
billion), reaching a target it had set for 2014 and defying
government measures to cool the real-estate market.  Revenue  reached 100.1 billion yuan as of Dec. 1, China’s
biggest publicly traded developer said yesterday, exceeding its
target of 80 billion yuan for 2010. The Shenzhen-based company
said it sold properties worth 12.87 billion yuan in November,
more than double its sales for the same period in 2009.  Vanke’s “milestone” revenue showed it was able to avoid
China’s efforts to restrain foreign capital and ease gains in
the housing market, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The
government this year suspended mortgages for third-home
purchases, pledged to speed up trials of property taxes and
raised interest rates in October for the first time since 2007.  “Vanke moved fast to smaller cities that were less
impacted by the government’s tightening and they were not afraid
to cut prices,”  Du Jinsong , a Hong Kong-based property analyst
for Credit Suisse, said by phone today. “Their success is due
to the right strategy that they executed this year.”  Vanke’s shares climbed 2.7 percent to 8.49 yuan at the
close in Shanghai, the highest since Nov. 15. The  measure 
tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai Composite Index 
advanced 1.3 percent.  About 90 percent of Vanke’s apartments are less than 144
square meters (1,550 square feet), with those smaller than 90
square meters accounting for 60 percent of the homes it built,
it said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Quick Sales’  “Quick development and quick sales are features for
Vanke’s sales strategy,”  Yu Liang , president of Vanke, said in
the statement.  China’s  property prices  rose 8.6 percent in October from
the same period a year earlier, the statistics bureau said on
Nov. 10. While the increase is the slowest in 10 months, it’s
the 17th month of gains for housing values in the nation, data
from the bureau showed.  SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real-estate
website owner, said home prices in 100 cities it monitors
advanced 0.8 percent in November from October, gaining for a
second month even as the central bank raised rates.  Vanke’s sales were “in line with the good performance” of
China’s real-estate companies, which means the government’s
tightening policies weren’t “strong enough,” said  Gao Jian , a
Shanghai-based property analyst for Northeastern Securities Co.  Moving Inland  Shanghai Forte Land Co.  said yesterday its sales volume
reached 12.6 billion yuan by November, exceeding its annual
revenue target of 11.5 billion.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. 
has achieved 91 percent of this year’s 30 billion yuan sales
target by the end of November, it said in a statement yesterday.  Vanke  this year entered inland Chinese cities such as the
southern city of Kunming, Guiyang in the western region, and
Urumqi in the far west of the country, it said in the statement.  The company may have marketed more homes in the middle of
the year because they expected the property market to ease,
Credit Suisse’s Du said. It would be “good enough” if the
company is able to match its sales this year in 2011, he said,
as the government may impose more property curbs as early as
this month.  The developer may be shielded from some of the measures as
it’s attracting cash-rich investors, Northeastern’s Gao said.  About 35 percent of its customers in November paid for
their homes in full instead of taking out mortgages, compared
with 30 percent in October, Vanke’s Tan said. Last year, they
made up less than 20 percent of the homebuyers, he said.  “Speculative capital or investors with deep pocket
certainly will not be influenced by the government’s property
curbs,” Gao said.  -- Bonnie Cao . Editors:  Linus Chua ,  Andreea Papuc   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Bonnie Cao  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  