-- GE, China's CSR May Bid to Build California, Florida High-Speed Railways
-- B y   W i n g - G a r   C h e n g
-- 2010-12-03T09:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/china-s-csr-corp-ge-to-partner-on-u-s-high-speed-railway-bids.html
CSR Corp. , China’s largest maker of
rail vehicles, and partner  General Electric Co.  may bid to build
high-speed train lines in California and Florida as U.S.
President  Barack Obama  spurs investment in railways.  The companies may also compete for a project on the east
coast, CSR Chairman  Zhao Xiaogang  told reporters in Hong Kong
today. They are yet to finalize what form their cooperation will
take and will decide which of the lines to bid on over the next
three years, he said.  The GE-CSR venture may face competition from trainmakers
including Bombardier Inc.,  Alstom SA  and East Japan Railway Co.
as the U.S. federal government promotes rail to ease congestion
and curb pollution. China has also said it may offer financing
for a planned California high-speed line costing at least $40
billion to help local trainmakers break into the U.S. market.  “Bidding for such projects can help give CSR an
international profile and boost its image as a global company,”
said  Stanley Yan , a Shanghai-based analyst at Masterlink
Securities Corp. “The company is seeking new markets.”  CSR, based in Beijing, wants overseas sales to account for
20 percent of total revenue by 2015 from about 8 percent now,
 Shao Renqiang , the company’s secretary, told reporters. It
expects total sales to climb to 150 billion yuan ($23 billion)
by that year, he said.  “Overseas contracts are lucrative and we want to expand
such sales,” Zhao said. “We’re actively seeking sales in the
U.S., where there are seven or eight contracts in the
pipeline.”  China Railways  The company is also bidding for projects in China, where
the nation plans to more than double its high-speed passenger
network to about 16,000 kilometer by 2020, Zhao said. China is
accelerating the pace of construction to cut travel times and
ease transportation bottlenecks, he said.  CSR  rose 1.9 percent to HK$9.35 at the close of trading in
Hong Kong. The stock has risen 64 percent this year, compared
with a 6.6 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  CSR and GE, based in Fairfield, Connecticut, are also
building a diesel-engine train factory in Changzhou, China. The
two last month agreed to form a  venture  that will make parts for
diesel trains.  GE, the world’s biggest maker of diesel trains, agreed to
cooperate with China on high-speed rail as it doesn’t have its
own technology. The partnership may eventually support about
3,500 jobs in U.S., with final assembly taking place in the
county, GE said last year.  California Network  California, the most populous U.S. state, is planning to
build a high-speed rail  network  that will eventually run from
Sacramento and San Francisco to Los Angeles and San Diego.  China can offer a “complete package” for the project
including financing, He Huawu, chief engineer of the nation’s
rail ministry, said in a September interview. The same month,
California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  rode bullet trains in
China, Japan and South Korea as he sought contractors and
financing for the project.  The California line won $2.3 billion in federal funding in
January, as part of an $8 billion stimulus package announced by
President Barack Obama. The government awarded a further $2.4
billion of aid for high-speed projects nationwide in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wing-Gar Cheng  in Hong Kong at 
 wgcheng@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.netAQ  