-- China Changing to `Prudent' Policy Next Year From Easing Bias, Xinhua Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T08:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/china-will-shift-to-prudent-monetary-policy-in-2011-to-tackle-inflation.html
China will shift to a “prudent”
monetary policy next year as the government seeks to rein in
liquidity, combat accelerating  inflation  and limit the risk of
asset bubbles.  Officials “will adopt proactive fiscal policies and
prudent monetary policies,” the state-run Xinhua News Agency
said today after a meeting of the ruling Communist Party’s
Politburo. The government had described the monetary stance as
“moderately loose” since late 2008.  China is tightening after a record expansion of credit
countered the effects of the financial crisis. The nation lags
behind counterparts from Malaysia to South Korea in boosting
borrowing costs after raising the benchmark interest rate for
the first time since 2007 in October.  “Rate hikes are imminent -- we expect one by the end of
the month, with more to come in 2011,”  Brian Jackson , a Hong
Kong-based emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada,
said after the Xinhua report.  The Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slipped 1.2 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 2,842.43 at the 3 p.m. close.  Yuan’s Gains  China’s next rate increase may come today or on Dec. 10 and
the yuan may strengthen at a “slightly” faster pace before
year-end, said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. who formerly worked for the
International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank.  Officials had been shifting policy ahead of today’s change
in terminology. Besides raising rates, the central bank has
ratcheted up banks’ reserve requirements this year, restricted
loan growth, and ended the yuan’s temporary peg to the dollar.  Economists, including at Morgan Stanley, expect the
government to trim the nation’s lending quota again next year.  The central bank last used the term “prudent” for
monetary policy in 2007 before shifting to a tighter stance as
overheating risks increased before the financial crisis.  China has a sound base for stable and fast growth next year
even as difficulties and challenges remain, Xinhua reported,
citing the Politburo. The nation will ensure food supplies and
stabilize prices, Xinhua said.  Inflation pressures have been highlighted by companies
including  McDonald’s Corp ., the world’s largest restaurant chain,
pushing up prices. The one-year lending rate is at 5.56 percent
after October’s quarter-point increase, while the deposit rate
is 2.5 percent.  Asian Central Banks  South Korea has raised rates twice this year, Malaysia
three times and India six. Thailand’s unexpected increase this
week was the nation’s third in 2010.  At Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, economist  Lu Ting  said
that continuing a “proactive” fiscal stance while tightening
monetary policy will allow the government to maintain economic
growth of around 9 percent. The nation’s expansion was 9.6
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  October’s inflation rate of 4.4 percent was the highest in
25 months and the nation has had record property-price gains
this year. Luxury-home costs in Beijing and Nanjing and so-
called mass-market prices in Shanghai and Shenzhen have become
“increasingly disconnected from fundamentals,” according to an
 International Monetary Fund  study released today.  The announcement from the Politburo, the 25-member body
that oversees the Communist Party and policy-making, came ahead
of an annual economic work conference that will set guidelines
for the coming year. That event may take place Dec. 10-12,
Xinhua said.  Concern that monetary tightening will cut corporate profits
and damp growth spurred a 6 percent sell-off in China’s
benchmark stock index in the past month.  Today’s announcement of a “prudent” stance had been
predicted by economists including at Deutsche Bank AG. and China
International Capital Corp. Central bank officials and advisers
had also used the term.  -- Li Yanping ,  Sophie Leung . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Lily Nonomiya .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  