-- China Unicom Rebuked on Handling of IPhone Rules
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T08:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/china-unicom-s-handling-of-iphone-resale-rules-brings-government-rebuke.html
China United Network Communications
Group Co. , trailing in the market for smartphone users, was
rebuked by the government for threatening to freeze customer
deposits if they use  Apple Inc. ’s iPhone on a rival network.  Unicom, the only mobile operator authorized to offer the
iPhone in China, caused “widespread concern” with its contract
rules, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said
in a report by the official Xinhua News Agency that was posted
on the regulator’s website today.  China’s second-biggest phone company issued the rules Nov.
22 in an attempt to prevent customers from using iPhones sold by
Unicom on the network of  China Mobile Communications Corp.  The
iPhone4 is in short supply in China because some buyers have
purchased the handset for resale, according to Unicom,
contravening the service agreement and undermining the company’s
ability to profit from its exclusive arrangement with Apple.  “There’s a lot of publicity regarding this phone so the
ministry is saying ‘you’ve got to be careful with this,’”  Paul Wuh , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung Securities Co., said
in an interview today. “They are subsidizing these phones and
they want to make sure they get the most benefit from it.”  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. , the group’s Hong Kong-listed
unit, fell 0.6 percent to HK$10.62 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading in the city. The stock has gained 3.3 percent this year,
lagging behind  China Mobile Ltd. ’s  7 percent advance.  ‘Respect Rights’  The company should “respect and protect the legitimate
rights and interests of telecommunications users, improve the
service agreement, and improve service quality,” Xinhua quoted
an unidentified ministry official as saying.  Wen Baoqiu, a spokesman for Unicom Group, today confirmed
the accuracy of the government’s statement as reported by
Xinhua, and posted on the ministry’s  website .  “The ministry requires every enterprise to respect and
protect consumer rights,” Wen said in a phone interview. “Our
new rules haven’t harmed consumer interests. It was in order to
protect consumer rights that we issued these rules. It doesn’t
mean the ministry is unhappy with the rules. They are not happy
or unhappy.”  Ministry spokesman  Wang Lijian  wasn’t immediately available
to comment.  Unicom began implementing its new rules from Dec. 1 and
implementation is off to a “smooth start” the company said in
a statement on its website today. Users were not affected, and
the majority “generally understand and accept the new China
Unicom iPhone contract policy,” today’s statement said.  Lags Rival  Even with the exclusive arrangement for Apple’s iPhone,
Unicom has been unable to match larger rival China Mobile in the
addition of users to the high-speed, third-generation networks
that allow smartphones to surf the Internet and download music.
China Mobile in October added 1.7 million 3G subscribers,
compared with Unicom’s 1.1 million, according to data the
companies released last month.  China Mobile had a total of 575 million mobile phone
subscribers at the end of October, including 17 million 3G
users. China Unicom had 163.8 million mobile subscribers,
including 11.7 million 3G customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edmond Lococo  in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  