-- Christie Agrees to Compromise on New Jersey Medical-Marijuana Regulations
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-03T18:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/christie-agrees-to-new-jersey-medical-marijuana-rules-allowing-2011-start.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said he agreed to a compromise on the state’s medical marijuana
regulations that will have the program operating by the summer.  New Jersey in January became the 14th U.S. state to
legalize medical marijuana under a bill signed by former
Governor  Jon Corzine , a Democrat, before he left office. Rules
of the program initially proposed by Christie’s administration
were too restrictive, said Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a Democrat
from Princeton who was the law’s primary sponsor.  Under Christie’s compromise with Gusciora, New Jersey will
license six centers to grow and dispense medical marijuana to
patients with chronic illnesses including glaucoma and seizure
disorders. The state also will monitor the strength of the drug,
which is produced from the cannabis plant and is illegal for
recreational use in the U.S.  The new rules represent “the best way to move forward on a
responsible, medically-based program that will avoid the fraud
and criminal-diversion problems that other states have
experienced,” Christie, a first-term Republican, told reporters
today in Trenton, naming California and Colorado as examples.  Christie had initially wanted fewer dispensaries and more
regulations on how the drug was grown and prescribed. The 
governor said he was never opposed to the program, and
wanted to ensure it would not result in abuse.  The law will allow a person to purchase a maximum of 2
ounces a month of marijuana from the treatment centers after a
doctor has certified that they aren’t responding to more
traditional therapies. Home delivery and satellite locations for
the centers won’t be allowed.  “We’re affording people a greater chance of receiving the
care that they need in their time of pain,” Gusciora said.
“Politics have been pushed aside to focus on the truly
important issue in this matter, and that is the patients’
needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 