-- Christie to New York: `Stop Screwing With Us' on Tappan Zee Bridge Upgrade
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2010-12-03T20:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/christie-to-new-york-stop-screwing-with-us-on-tappan-zee-bridge-upgrade.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
said he’ll block attempts to have state taxpayers pick up any of
the tab for a planned $16 billion upgrade of the 55-year-old
Tappan Zee Bridge across the Hudson River north of Manhattan.  New York  Governor  David Paterson  yesterday suggested having
the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey assume control over
the bridge, which carries 140,000 cars daily. Doing so would let
the states share project costs and toll revenue, he said at a
Long Island appearance.  Christie, a first-term Republican, said he’ll try to stop
any effort to have the Port Authority rebuild the 3.1-mile (5-
kilometer) bridge, which may cost $10 billion alone, or related
plans for road work and a rail link that may cost $6 billion
more. In October, he killed a proposed commuter-rail tunnel
under the Hudson in part because he said New York wouldn’t share
the financial burden.  “I can’t make it any clearer to New York: Stop screwing
with us, OK?” Christie told reporters today in his Trenton
office. “You’re not going to come and pick our pockets. New
Jersey is not going to permit it anymore. We now have an
administration that’s going to stand up to New York and say
no.”  New York purposely kept the Tappan Zee separate from the
Port Authority to prevent New Jersey from sharing toll revenue,
Christie said. He said he would oppose any effort to extend the
agency’s scope and that he wouldn’t have supported the project
even if New York had contributed to the tunnel.  Approaching the Limit  Lieutenant Governor  Richard Ravitch  approached New Jersey
officials to discuss a Tappan Zee proposal, Paterson said Nov.
18 on New York City’s WOR radio. Paterson, who leaves office
Jan. 1 when fellow Democrat  Andrew Cuomo  takes over, said
yesterday he himself hadn’t discussed the issue with Christie.  Paterson had no comment today on Christie’s remarks, Anna
Adams-Sarthou, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  New York is approaching its borrowing limit and needs new
revenue to maintain its transportation system and back debt for
projects such as the Tappan Zee replacement, Ravitch said in a
Nov. 19 report to Paterson.  The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, operator of the
New York City subway, and the state Transportation Department,
which says 5,500 bridges need  repair  or replacement, don’t have
enough funding to cover operating costs and the new borrowing
needed for construction projects, Ravitch said in his report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Terrence Dopp  in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 