-- Clarence Thomas Is Model for Gay Marriage Case: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2010-12-03T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/clarence-thomas-is-model-for-gay-marriage-case-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
Oh, for the days when men were men
and women were wives. How much simpler it was when the man of
the house sallied forth into the world and the little woman
contented herself with home, hearth and family (whether she
wanted to or not).  However stifling, strict gender roles made things more
orderly. Take for example the ticklish situation created when
judges have spouses who, in their work lives, take public
positions on legal issues.  Conservative forces tried and failed to persuade  Stephen Reinhardt , one of the most liberal judges on the federal bench,
to remove himself from a California gay marriage case, scheduled
for argument Monday before a three judge panel, including him.  The problem is Reinhardt’s wife,  Ramona Ripston , the anti-
gay-marriage crowd says in a court paper filed this week.  Ripston has labored for years as executive director of the
American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California. Her group
has no direct role in the lawsuit  Reinhardt  is set to consider.
It is neither plaintiff nor defendant nor legal counsel.  If it had been, Reinhardt would have disqualified himself
immediately, as that has been his long-running policy.  But Ripston did attend a long-ago meeting where the
possibility of filing this suit was hashed out, according to the
court brief, which cites a magazine article.  State Litigation  Plus, her organization, based in Los Angeles, sought a role
in the case. Its lawyers were among those representing a gay
parenting group asking to join the litigation as a plaintiff.
And the ACLU of Southern California also signed on to a friend
of the court brief, one of many filed in the lawsuit.  All this took place on the trial level, before the case got
to the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, where Reinhardt sits.
The Southern California ACLU has no role in the appellate
litigation.  And yet, it was deeply involved in a similar case that went
through state courts earlier.  Before deciding whether any of that requires Reinhardt to
step down, put aside any ideological bias you may harbor.
Liberal judges aren’t the only ones whose wives hold visible and
powerful posts.  Consider  Virginia Thomas , a longtime conservative activist
whose husband, Clarence, occupies a seat on the Supreme Court.  She publicly embraces the Tea Party, has worked for various
conservative groups, and founded Liberty Central Inc., an
information clearinghouse for conservative activism.  Proper Role  “We’ve got to get the Constitution back to a place where
it means something,” she told conservative blogger, Ed
Morrissey, “or we’re headed for tyranny.”  (Those were my precise thoughts when  George W. Bush  was
president, by the way.)  But is that any way for a Supreme Court justice’s wife to
talk?  “I did not give up my First Amendment rights when my
husband became a justice of the Supreme Court,” Virginia Thomas
 told  National Public Radio this March.  She’s right.  But does her activism mean her  husband  should recuse
himself from those cases where she or her group has taken a
stand?  A memo posted on the Liberty Central Web site that included
her name (mistakenly, the group  said ), called the health-care
reform law “unconstitutional.”  Ethical Question  As it happened, Justice Thomas joined his colleagues on
Nov. 5 to decide whether the high court should consider an
appeal challenging that very law. (They said no.)  Was it ethical for him to participate?  It was. Her activism, even her opinion on a law’s
constitutionality, shouldn’t disqualify him from hearing cases.  (Press reports said she had decided to resign her
leadership role in Liberty Central, but a spokeswoman for the
group  told  the Los Angeles Times that wasn’t true. The
organization’s  website  still lists her as chief executive
officer. The group didn’t respond to messages seeking
clarification.)  If Liberty Central had a direct role in a lawsuit before
the court, that would be cause for Thomas to recuse from case.
Or, if Liberty Central’s major funders had a matter before the
court, then Thomas should step down. For that reason, the group
should disclose its backers, even though the law doesn’t require
it to do so.  But what about Reinhardt and Ripston?  Like Virginia Thomas, she can say whatever she believes
about any case, even if her husband may eventually help decide
it. But Ripston did more than that. The organization she works
for advocated the same cause in a state court that is now being
advocated before her husband in federal court.  No Recuse  True, the cases aren’t identical, as the current case
claims same-sex marriage is protected by the U.S. Constitution,
whereas the earlier one was based on the California state
constitution.  Reinhardt said yesterday in an order that he’s not going
anywhere.  “I will be able to rule impartially on this appeal, and I
will do so,” he wrote.  It seems like a close call to me, and because of that, he
should have stepped aside. The link between his wife’s legal
work and his judicial work is too close.  The over-arching principle as to when federal judges
should recuse themselves is whether the mere appearance of bias
is reasonable. That’s according to the federal judiciary’s  Code
of Conduct  and Supreme Court precedent. I think it’s reasonable
in Reinhardt’s case.  And yet, the decision to recuse should be a rare one,
especially on the Supreme Court. It’s the only court where
there’s no replacement if a justice steps off a case.  This much is clear. It may be messy when judges and spouses
are both drawn into public life, but order isn’t everything.  ( Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  