-- Clinton Says Cabinet Post Will Be Last Public Job, Won't Seek Presidency
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-12-03T15:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/clinton-says-cabinet-post-will-be-last-public-job-won-t-seek-presidency.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said she won’t run for president once her tenure as the top U.S.
diplomat ends, and instead will work on advocacy for women and
children.  Clinton was speaking at a town hall meeting in Bahrain,
where she’s attending a Gulf security summit hosted by Bahrain’s
 International Institute for Strategic Studies , where Yemen and
Iran are expected to dominate the agenda.  “I think I’ll serve as secretary of state as my last
public position, and then probably go back to advocacy work,
particularly on behalf of women and children and particularly
around the world,” Clinton, who will begin her third year in
the position in January, said at a town hall meeting.  Clinton said she felt lucky because of her upbringing and
education and that she “would like to continue working to
improve lives for others as well.”  Clinton was defeated by  Barack Obama  for the Democratic
presidential nomination in 2008. There has been speculation that
she might replace  Robert Gates  as secretary of defense.  Clinton, a graduate of Wellesley College, a women’s
college, and Yale Law School, started her career at a non-profit
advocacy group, the  Children’s Defense Fund , “where I advocated
and represented in court abused and neglected children,”
Clinton said.  She has made the welfare of women and children a
cornerstone policy during her time at the State Department,
frequently raising the theme. She often meets with women’s
groups during foreign travel.  While she is often asked about her plans after the State
Department -- most recently last month -- this was the first
time Clinton has discussed publicly alternatives to politics and
government.  “If you look at what is still happening to women in many
parts of the world, it is tragic and terrible,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Manama, Bahrain at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  