-- Clinton Says Success of Nuclear Talks Is `In the Hands' of Iranians
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-12-03T22:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/clinton-says-success-of-nuclear-talks-in-the-hands-of-iranian-government.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the success or failure of talks next week on Iran’s
nuclear program is “largely in the hands of the Iranians.”  Speaking directly to Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki 
and other Iranian delegates yesterday at a conference in
Bahrain, Clinton said the U.S. hopes Iran comes to the Dec. 6
meeting in Geneva “as we will -- in good faith and prepared to
engage constructively” on nuclear issues.  “We very much hope the negotiations in Geneva over the
nuclear program will lead to breakthroughs,” Clinton said in a
wide-ranging speech at a meeting on Persian Gulf security hosted
by Bahrain’s  International Institute for Strategic Studies . At
the same time, she said America’s willingness to talk comes with
“an ironclad commitment to defending global security and the
world’s interests in a peaceful and prosperous Gulf region.”  Iran is scheduled to meet Dec. 6 with the so-called P5 plus
1, a group that includes the United Nations Security Council’s
five permanent members -- the U.S., China, Russia, U.K. and
France -- plus Germany. It will be the first time they’ve met
since October 2009.  Emile Hokayem, senior fellow for regional security at the
Institute for Strategic Studies, noted that Mottaki didn’t look
at Clinton while she spoke and didn’t clap at the end of her
speech. Still, Hokayem said it was a good sign that Mottaki
didn’t leave the room.  “There was an open hand there,” he said. “I’m not sure
what was there that would make the secretary more confident than
a year ago that a nuclear deal is possible.”  Middle East Priority  In her speech, Clinton said the U.S. won’t remain in Iraq,
asked Gulf nations to support Yemen’s battle against militants
and urged them to work together more actively. The talk
reflected the priority that she and President  Barack Obama  have
placed on the Middle East.  Obama reached out to the Muslim world early in his first
term to repair relations strained in the Iraq war. On his second
day in office, he appointed a special  envoy  to work on Middle
East peace. The administration has worked to bolster
international support to sanction Iran for its nuclear
activities.  Clinton said the U.S. will treat Iraq as an equal after the
U.S. pulls out its troops at the end of 2011. Without naming
Iraq’s neighbor, Iran, she said other nations must do the same.  “No country should pursue its own interests in Iraq at the
expense of Iraq’s unity and sovereignty,” Clinton said. “And
no country should threaten or intimidate or coerce Iraq or
political stakeholders in Iraq.”  Stable Lebanon  Clinton also stressed U.S. support for “a sovereign,
independent, and stable Lebanon,” where Hezbollah, the militant
group funded by Iran, competes for political power.  Clinton said security partnerships can help Gulf nations
cope with “the threat of states that pursue destabilizing
actions against their neighbors.”  Citing freedom of navigation as a security priority,
Clinton called on Iran to cooperate with the Gulf and the U.S.
to combat piracy. “All countries, including Iran, must do their
part to cooperate in the common defense of the waterways,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Manama, Bahrain at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  