-- Clinton Tells Iran U.S. Committed to Resolving Dispute Over Nuclear Work
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2010-12-03T19:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/clinton-tells-iran-u-s-committed-to-dialogue-on-nuclear-issue.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
told Iranian diplomats today that the U.S. remains committed to
a dialogue to resolve a dispute over the country’s nuclear
program, while maintaining an “an ironclad commitment” to the
security in the Persian Gulf region.  “We continue to make this offer of engagement with respect
for your sovereignty and with regard for your interests, but
also with an ironclad commitment to defending global security
and the world’s interests in a peaceful and prosperous Gulf
region,” Clinton said in Bahrain, where she’s attending a Gulf
security summit hosted by Bahrain’s  International Institute for
Strategic Studies .  Directly addressing Iran’s delegation, which includes
Foreign Minister  Manouchehr Mottaki , Clinton said Iran must take
steps to “restore the confidence of the international community
and live up to your obligations” under a nonproliferation
treaty. “We urge you to make that choice -- for your people,
your interests, and our shared security,” Clinton said.  In earlier remarks to Bahrain’s foreign minister and to a
meeting with students, Clinton emphasized the international
unity over Iran’s nuclear program three days before talks on the
subject restart for the first time in more than a year.  Iran is scheduled to meet Monday in Geneva with the so-
called P5 plus 1, a group that includes the United Nations
Security Council’s five permanent members -- the U.S., China,
Russia, U.K. and France -- plus Germany.  “There is no debate within the international community,”
Clinton said about the Iranian nuclear program. “Iran needs to
know that it cannot violate international rules and
regulations,” Clinton said at the town hall meeting with
Bahraini students. “It is entitled to the peaceful use of
nuclear energy, but not nuclear weapons.”  The UN has targeted Iran with four sets of sanctions. Iran,
which has the world’s second-largest oil and natural gas
reserves, says it’s producing uranium to fuel nuclear reactors
and generate electricity. The U.S. and allies accuse it of
trying to build atomic weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicole Gaouette  in Manama, Bahrain at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  