-- Continental Verdict at Concorde Trial May Scare Future Air Crash Witnesses
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-03T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/concorde-crash-trial-may-intimidate-witnesses-harm-safety-lawyers-say.html
French criminal investigations into
airplane disasters such as the deadly July 2000 Concorde crash
puts the flying public at risk by intimidating people with key
information, lawyers and safety experts say.  Even if  Continental Airlines Inc.  and five individuals are
cleared by judges in Pontoise, France, on Dec. 6 of manslaughter
charges related to the crash that killed 113 people, witnesses
may be reluctant to participate in the future for fear of being
targeted by prosecutors.  “It has a chilling effect,” said James Hall, former
chairman of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board. “I
don’t think it does aviation safety any good.”  France is one of the few countries where fatal accidents
automatically prompt criminal probes to run parallel with
investigations by civil authorities. The two-track approach
bogged down the Concorde investigation, with the criminal trial
starting almost 10 years after the crash and seven years after
the supersonic jetliner’s last commercial flight.  “Some people question the need for this double
investigation,” said Pierre Sparaco, author of  aviation  books
including a history of the Concorde. “Technical investigators
on one side and criminal on the other often get in each other’s
way. It’s not uncommon that they don’t listen to each other.”  Flight AF4590  Concorde flights were grounded for 16 months following the
July 25, 2000, crash of Air France Flight AF4590. While the
plane returned to service, air travel demand declined following
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and traffic never recovered. The
supersonic jet went out of service in 2003.  Civil investigators found the Concorde hit a piece of metal
from a Continental plane that had taken off earlier. The strip
tore into Concorde’s wheel, sending debris into fuel tanks,
sparking a fire that crashed the plane. The danger posed by
exploding tires, noted after five incidents in 1979 and two in
1993, was also cited in a report.  Continental declined to comment on the French investigative
process or the trial, said  Mary Clark , a spokeswoman for the
airline. Continental has merged with United Airlines to form
 United Continental Holdings Inc. , the world’s largest carrier.  The criminal investigators concurred, and in 2008 an
investigating judge ordered the men and airline to trial.
Continental, a mechanic and his manager erred in replacing an
older wear strip with one of titanium, not made by the original
manufacturer, according to the findings. Two men who worked on
the Concorde program and a former French civil aviation official
are accused of failing to address the tire risk.  Omitted Witness Reports  All deny the charges. The company’s lawyer  Olivier Metzner 
declined to comment before the verdict. At a trial that started
in February, Metzner argued the investigators omitted witness
reports that indicated the plane may have caught fire before
hitting the metal strip.  By prosecuting everyone from a Texas mechanic to the
Concorde program director, France risks scaring witnesses, said
 John Goglia , an aviation consultant and former NTSB member.  “Everyone clams up,” Goglia said. “It makes an
additional burden on the investigators to try to ferret out the
facts. If you think even remotely that you’re going to be
charged criminally with something, why would you say anything?”  There would be no trial in the U.S., people involved in the
Concorde trial and observers in both countries say.  ‘Well-Intentioned People’  “Even if the debris caused the crash, those were the
actions of well-intentioned people,” said John Cox, a former
pilot now with  Safety Operating Systems LLC  in Washington.  Fernand Garnault , an attorney for  Air France-KLM Group ,
which is seeking 15 million euros ($19.8 million) in damages for
the end of its Concorde program, agreed.  “Surely there would not have been a criminal trial in the
U.S.,” he said, since the unanimous jury verdict requirement
for convictions would deter prosecutors from bringing the case.  Civil investigators and victims’ groups defended the French
system, saying there is enough separation between the probes to
allow witnesses to come forward.  France’s aviation investigation authority, the  BEA , “is
not there to find blame, we are there to determine how the
accident occurred,” said BEA spokeswoman Martine Delbono. “The
criminal investigation does not interfere in our activities.”  Victims’ Rights  Victims’ rights advocates in France say differences in the
legal systems mean criminal investigations are the only way to
guarantee fair representation and access to information on what
happened to their relatives.  “Our system is different; lawyers don’t have the means to
conduct their own investigations to determine” whether families
should pursue individuals, manufacturers or the airlines, said
Roland Rappaport, a Paris lawyer representing the Concorde
pilot’s family as well as the  national pilots union  in other
accidents including last year’s Air France crash off the coast
of Brazil.  “I’m not naive, I’m not saying we have access to
everything, but in a country organized like ours, victims have
very important rights” under the criminal probe, he said.  French judges have only sent one pilot to jail following a
crash and the prosecutor called for suspended jail sentences
against the Continental employees and the former director of the
Concorde program, and dismissals for the two other men. He
recommended a 175,000-euro fine for Continental.  Still the trial will undermine safety investigations as
aviation workers and others see France prosecute the airline and
its employees.  “When there is an accident, people will remember the
prosecution of Continental,” said Michael Dworkin, executive
vice president of the  NTSB Bar Association . “I don’t know what
this does that will in any way improve air safety.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Heather Smith  in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 