-- Cooking Oils Prices to Extend Rally as Demand Outpaces Supply, Mistry Says
-- B y   C l a i r e   L e o w
-- 2010-12-03T02:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/cooking-oils-prices-to-extend-rally-as-demand-outpaces-supply-mistry-says.html
Cooking oils prices will extend a
rally as rising global demand exceeds supplies curbed by drought
and heavy rains, pushing palm oil to 3,600 ringgit a ton this
month, according to  Dorab Mistry , director of Godrej
International Ltd.  “The period of greatest tightness will be between February
and May 2011 and we need prices to rise now in order to rein in
demand and to stimulate plantings,” Mistry, who correctly
predicted in March that prices would exceed 3,000 ringgit ($953)
a ton after June, said at a conference in Bali today.  Heavy rains caused by a La Nina weather event -- “one of
the strongest in decades,” according to Mistry -- have reduced
oil-palm yields in Indonesia and Malaysia, the largest
producers. La Nina has also caused drought that curbed South
American planting of soybeans, threatening global edible oil
supplies and driving prices higher.  “It must affect crops in South America,” said Mistry, who
has traded vegetables oils for three decades. “The present
indications are that we shall lose at least 5 million tons of
soybeans. Most analysts underestimated the effects of the El
Nino of 2009 and appear to be doing the same with La Nina.”  Palm oil futures in Malaysia have rallied 32 percent this
year, climbing yesterday to 3,500 ringgit on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, the highest level since July 2008, and may
reach 3,600 ringgit this month, he said. Soybean oil in Chicago
has jumped 29 percent this year, reaching a 27-month high of
55.43 cents a pound on Nov. 12. The contract for January
delivery traded at 53 cents at 10:10 a.m. in Singapore.  Yields Decline  Oil-palm yields typically decline in the first half of the
year, while stockpiles of soybeans, used to make soybean oil,
dwindle between the U.S. and South American harvests. Brazil and
Argentina, which start harvesting soybeans in March, are the
largest producers after the U.S.  Demand for edible oils will exceed supply for a third
straight year, increasing by 4.5 million tons as supply expands
3.5 million tons, Mistry said.  Soybean imports by China, the world’s biggest buyer, may
rise 38 percent in the October-to-December period from a year
ago, state-owned researcher Grain.gov.cn, a division of the
China National Grain & Oils Information Center, said on Nov. 26.
Full-year imports may jump 27 percent to more than 54 million
tons, it said.  The market is “focused on Chinese monthly imports of
beans,” Mistry said. “If the Chinese government releases State
Reserves and they skip one month’s imports, it will have a
bearish impact on prices in the short term.”  China may import as much as 6.1 million tons of palm oil in
the 2010-2011 year, from 5.9 million tons the previous year, if
the country decides to replenish rapeseed stockpiles, Jennifer
Yuan, a researcher at Cofco Ltd., China’s largest grains trader,
said at the Bali conference today.  ‘Incremental Demand’  Soybean oil prices will also climb partly “because too
much incremental demand from sunflower oil and rapeseed oil
consumers is migrating in its direction,” Mistry said.  Sunflower oil will trade at a premium of at least $200 a
ton over soybean oil, he said, lifting last month’s premium
forecast from $150. Rapeseed oil will be as much as $150 a ton
more expensive, he said.  Global supplies of soybean oil will climb by 1.6 million
tons in the year ending September 2011, Mistry said, reducing
his November forecast for an increase of 1.8 million tons and
his September forecast of 2.1 million tons.  Godrej, one of India’s biggest buyers of cooking oil, this
year acquired PT Megasari Makmur, a grower in Indonesia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@Bloomberg.net . 