-- Copper May Rise This Week as Chinese Manufacturing Speeds Up, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2010-12-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/copper-may-rise-next-week-as-chinese-manufacturing-speeds-up-survey-shows.html
Copper may rise as manufacturing
speeds up in China, the world’s biggest consumer of the metal,
and the dollar weakens, a survey showed.  Ten of 14 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 71 percent, said the metal will gain next week.
Three predicted lower prices and one forecast little change.
Copper for delivery in three months was up 6 percent for this
week at $8,730 a metric ton at 3:30 p.m. yesterday on the London
Metal Exchange.  Prices yesterday reached the highest level since Nov. 12
after figures showed on the prior day that manufacturing
accelerated in China for a fourth month. The U.S. Dollar Index’s
14-day relative strength index this week rose above 72,
exceeding the level of 70 that signals a potential impending
drop to some analysts who study technical charts.  “We expect copper prices to increase due to positive
economic news from China and a resumption of dollar weakness,”
said  Charles Bradford , a partner at Affiliated Research Group
LLC, a New York-based consulting firm.  The RSI measures whether an index, security or commodity is
overbought or oversold. The euro will rise to 1.32 per dollar in
a week, according to forward contracts tracked by Bloomberg,
representing a 0.3 percent gain on Dec. 2 levels.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of Nov. 26.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
53 of the past 114 weeks, or 46 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 10  Bearish : 3 Hold: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Kolesnikova  in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 