-- Credit Suisse Hires Alva as Head of Health-Care M&A
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2010-12-03T20:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/credit-suisse-hires-lazard-s-alva-as-it-beefs-up-health-care-m-a-banking.html
(Corrects spelling of Lipsky in sixth paragraph.)  Credit Suisse AG  hired a new head of
its health-care mergers and acquisitions business, naming former
Lazard Ltd. managing director Rajesh Alva to the role, as it
continues to add bankers to the group.  The hiring of Alva, 41, was announced in a Credit Suisse
memo confirmed by  Duncan King , a spokesman for the bank. Alva
left Lazard in May after 15 years with the firm, including the
last seven years as managing director and head of the medical-
technology group. He’ll be based in New York.  Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, is second in global health-
care deals this year at about $42 billion, behind Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., according to Bloomberg data. It added Eric Hecht, a
former health-care equity analyst and adviser, as a managing
director in October. In September, Credit Suisse hired former
Morgan Stanley managing director Charles Newton as head of
biotechnology investment banking.  Credit Suisse is working on the largest health-care deal of
the year, advising Genzyme Corp. on the more-than $18 billion
offer it received in August from  Sanofi-Aventis SA . Genzyme
rejected the offer, calling the $69-per-share bid too low.  At Lazard, Alva advised on Thermo Electron Corp.’s purchase
of Fisher Scientific for $12.8 billion in 2006 to form the
world’s largest lab-instruments maker. He worked with Abbott
Laboratories on its $4.3 billion acquisition of Guidant Corp.’s
heart-stent business in 2006, and catheter maker Arrow
International Inc. on its $2 billion sale to Teleflex Inc. in
2007.  Alva, who started his career at Kidder Peabody & Co. as an
analyst, will report to  Andy Lipsky , head of Americas mergers
and acquisitions for Credit Suisse. He’s among executives and
bankers to leave Lazard following the death of CEO  Bruce Wasserstein.   To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  