-- Crude Oil Heads for Biggest Weekly Gain in a Month on U.S. Economy Outlook
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-12-03T12:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/crude-oil-heads-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-a-month-on-u-s-economy-outlook.html
Oil headed for its biggest weekly
gain in a month on speculation that U.S. fuel demand will
increase as the economic recovery gathers pace in the world’s
biggest oil consumer.  Futures have climbed 5.3 percent this week, the most since
the period ending Nov. 5, as data showed U.S. home sales rose
and manufacturing expanded. A Labor Department report today may
indicate that hiring in the U.S. increased for a second month.
Oil reached a three-week high after the Bundesbank raised its
forecast for German economic growth next year.  “Macroeconomic sentiment has improved with stronger data
from the U.S. and China,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst
with VTB Capital in London. “However, this optimism has little
to do with fundamentals. A sustained rally is unlikely here.”  Oil for January delivery on the New York Mercantile
Exchange rose as much as 33 cents to $88.33, the highest price
since Nov. 11. The contract was at $88.17 a barrel at 12:06 p.m.
London time. It rose 1.4 percent yesterday to $88 a barrel, the
highest settlement since October 2008. Brent crude for January
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London advanced as much as
44 cents to $91.13 a barrel, the most since Oct. 3, 2008.  Crude will rise to $120 a barrel in 2012 as consumption in
emerging economies increases, analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
said in a report today.  “Strong emerging oil demand growth over the next 24 months
is very likely to lift the call on OPEC production to levels
last seen at the peak of the oil price spike in 2008,” JPMorgan
analysts led by Lawrence Eagles in New York said. “We expect oil
inventories to continue their drawing trend over the first
quarter.”  U.S. Jobs Report  U.S. employers added 150,000 workers last month, a
Bloomberg survey showed before the Labor Department report
today. Data yesterday showed pending sales of U.S. existing
houses unexpectedly jumped by a record 10 percent in October,
while claims for jobless benefits over the past month on average
dropped to a two-year low.  “The market is going to be focused on what happens tonight
with the unemployment number,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “Oil is
coming back a little bit because of profit-taking.”  Brent crude for next month is trading at a 3-cent premium
to the February future, a market situation known as
backwardation that suggests immediate supplies are more in
demand than later deliveries.  Cold Weather  Demand for European crude has increased as declining
temperatures in the region boost heating oil consumption. The
premium of gasoil, another term for the fuel, climbed to $11.82
above Brent crude, from $10.81 yesterday, according to ICE data.  Oil analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News were split over the
direction of crude oil prices next week. Ten of 28 analysts, or
36 percent, forecast crude will advance through Dec. 10. Ten
more respondents predicted that futures will be steady. Eight
said there will be a decline.  Oil also rose this week as gasoline prices in New York
surged amid declining stockpiles in the U.S. Northeast.
Inventories along the East Coast fell 1.8 percent last week, an
Energy Department report showed yesterday. Irving Oil Corp. said
it shut a unit at its Saint John refinery in New Brunswick that
supplies New York, the delivery point for the Nymex contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  