-- Debt Plan Rejected as U.S. Panel Disagrees on Taxes, Social Security Cuts
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-12-03T19:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/debt-plan-rejected-as-commission-disagrees-on-taxes-social-security-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama ’s debt
commission rejected a $3.8 trillion budget-cutting plan as
members from both parties opposed its mix of tax increases and
spending cuts in programs such as Social Security and Medicare.  The seven votes against the  plan  were enough to sink it,
even though 11 of the 18 members voted in favor, because 14
were needed to forward the proposal to Congress for
consideration. Five of the six senators on the panel backed the
plan, as did five of the six unelected officials. Five of six
House members opposed it, with the sole support coming from
South Carolina Democrat  John Spratt , who was defeated in the
Nov. 2 election.  Panel co-chairman  Erskine Bowles  called the 11 votes a
“strong, bipartisan majority” and said “no one on this
commission and very few left in America are in denial that this
threat pressed upon us by these ever-increasing deficits are
something we have to deal with.”  The spotlight now shifts to the White House, where Obama
must decide how much of the report to incorporate into his
February budget request. “We simply cannot allow our nation to
be dragged down by our debt,” he said in a statement issued
during a trip to Afghanistan.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat who backed the plan, urged Obama to convene a
summit with congressional leaders of both parties to address
the deficit.  Need the Administration  Conrad said that five House members opposed the plan was a
“big problem.” No administration officials were on the
commission, he said, adding, “we need the administration at
the table.”  The rejected proposal would have reduced the annual
deficit to about $400 billion in 2015, from this year’s $1.3
trillion, and begin reducing the debt.  The plan by Bowles and co-chairman  Alan Simpson  would have
increased taxes by $1 trillion by 2020 by scaling back or
eliminating hundreds of tax deductions, exclusions or credits
such as those allowing homeowners to write off interest on
their mortgage payments. It would also have cut individual and
corporate income tax rates.  Social Security benefits would have been cut, the gas tax
would have gone up by 15 cents, discretionary spending would
have been reduced by $1.6 trillion and Medicare would have been
pared by $400 billion.  ‘Tectonic Paradigm’  Andy Stern , a former president of the Service Employees
International Union who voted against the plan, said the panel
focused public attention on the budget challenges facing the
government.  “We have changed the issue from whether there should even
be a fiscal plan for this country to what is the best fiscal
plan for this country,” he said. “This is an enormous,
tectonic paradigm shift that I think is enormously important.”  Three House Republicans who opposed the plan --
Representatives  Dave Camp  of Michigan,  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin
and  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas -- cited what they called its
failure to rein in health-care costs along with the higher
taxes it would have imposed.  The two House Democrats joining them in opposition --  Jan Schakowsky  of Illinois and  Xavier Becerra  of California --
cited spending cuts on domestic programs.  Unfair Burden  “The bulk of the cuts would come disproportionately on
the backs of those who require education, environmental
cleanup, housing, senior citizen services, health care,”
Becerra told the panel.  Yesterday, Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat also on
the panel, said he would vote no because the plan painted “a
big, red target on rural America.” He cited plans to cut farm
subsidies and raise the gas tax, and he  said cuts in Social
Security and Medicare would disproportionately hurt states like
his with large numbers of elderly citizens.  Conrad, from neighboring North Dakota, rejected that
today, saying “the rural areas actually came out quite well”
and “everybody is going to have to contribute to getting this
debt under control -- no part of the country can be exempt.”  David Cote , chairman of Honeywell International Inc. who
voted for the plan, chastised his colleagues for what he called
“hyperbole.” He said words like “draconian” and
“destroyed” are “applied to something like a 5 percent
increase over 10 years becoming a 4 percent increase over 10
years.”  Criticizing Congress  “I really have difficulty sometimes seeing how you get
your jobs done at all,” Cote said.  Others voting for the proposal were Senators  Dick Durbin ,
a Illinois Democrat; Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican;
Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican; Senator  Judd Gregg ,
a New Hampshire Republican;  Ann Fudge , former chief executive
officer of Young & Rubicam Inc., former Congressional Budget
Office Director  Alice Rivlin ; along with Bowles and Simpson.  Bowles concluded the meeting by urging lawmakers not to
give up on the issue. “I really am pleading with you -- please
make the tough choices,” he said. “Reduce spending, reduce it
in the defense budget, reduce in the non-defense budget, in the
entitlements, in the tax code” and “please in doing it
eliminate these dreadful deficits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 