-- Disney Names Ben Sherwood President of ABC News Division to Replace Westin
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2010-12-03T17:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/disney-names-ben-sherwood-president-of-abc-news.html
Walt Disney Co.  named  Ben Sherwood 
president of ABC News to replace  David Westin , who announced in
September he would step down at the end of the year.  Sherwood, 46, will oversee editorial, programming and
digital operations at ABC’s global news business, including
broadcast TV, radio and the Internet, Burbank, California-based
Disney said today in an e-mailed statement. He will report to
 Anne Sweeney , president of the Disney/ABC Television Group.  Disney cited Sherwood’s entrepreneurial background. In
addition to working previously at ABC and NBC news, Sherwood is
a novelist whose works include “The Death and Life of Charlie
St. Cloud,” which became a film. In 2009, he founded
TheSurvivorsClub.org for people coping with disaster.  Disney, the world’s biggest media company, gained 1 cent to
$37.35 at 12:08 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
 trading . The shares had gained 16 percent this year before
today.  ABC announced a restructuring of the news workforce in
February, increasing its reliance on freelance journalists and
requiring staffers shoot and edit more of their own material.  Sherwood, a graduate of Harvard College and a Rhodes
Scholar, began his journalism career with internships at KCET in
Los Angeles, the Los Angeles Times Washington bureau and “CBS
Evening News” in New York, Disney said.  He joined ABC News in 1989, working at “PrimeTime Live”
until 1997, when he was hired by NBC’s “Nightly News with  Tom Brokaw .” Sherwood returned to ABC in April 2004 as executive
producer of “Good Morning America.”  ABC News is averaging 7.3 million viewers for its evening
telecast in the TV season that began in September, according to
Nielsen Co. data. That compares with 8.4 million at NBC and 5.7
million for CBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  