-- Dollar Drops to Three-Week Low Versus Yen as U.S. Job Gains Trail Forecast
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-12-03T22:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/dollar-drops-against-yen-as-u-s-employers-added-fewer-jobs-than-forecast.html
The dollar dropped to a three-week
low versus the yen as U.S. payrolls added less than one-third as
many jobs as forecast last month, keeping unemployment near a
26-year high and spurring speculation the recovery is faltering.  The greenback fell against all of its most-traded
counterparts except the Mexican peso and Canadian dollar as the
jobless rate unexpectedly rose to 9.8 percent, underscoring the
Federal Reserve’s decision last month to buy government bonds to
spur employment. The Swiss franc was the top performer, after
Norway’s krone, as U.S. stocks fluctuated and investors sought
an alternative to the dollar.  “The job numbers today vindicated the Fed and their
pumping of liquidity into the economy,” said  John Doyle , a
strategist in Washington at currency-trading firm Tempus
Consulting Inc. “The correlation of risk for the dollar broke
down today, so you have risk stable but equities and the dollar
losing.”  The greenback tumbled 1.5 percent to 82.53 yen, the weakest
level since Nov. 15, at 5 p.m. in New York, from 83.82
yesterday. It dropped for the first week since October, losing
1.9 percent.  The dollar depreciated 1.5 percent to $1.3414 per euro,
from $1.3209, and reached $1.3438, the lowest since Nov. 23. It
fell against the common currency for the first week in a month,
declining 1.3 percent. The euro was at 110.73 yen, unchanged
from yesterday.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index rose in its last half-hour
to end the day up 0.3 percent after declining as much as 0.4
percent.  Highest Since April  Payrolls increased by 39,000, less than the most
pessimistic projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
after a revised 172,000 increase the prior month, Labor
Department figures showed today. The jobless rate reached the
highest since April, from 9.6 percent in October.  The Fed drew criticism domestically and abroad after it
said Nov. 3 it will buy $600 billion in Treasuries through June
in a tactic called quantitative easing. German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  suggested the move aimed to erode the value
of the greenback, and the four top Republicans in Congress wrote
Bernanke expressing concern it introduced “significant
uncertainty regarding the future strength of the dollar.”  The employment report “is more a comment on QE,” said
 Steven Englander , head of Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in New York. “This shifts the burden of proof
onto those who say the Fed’s not going to go ahead with their
program. That’s why you’re having such a big impact in the
foreign-exchange market.”  Franc Climbs  The U.S. unemployment rate has held at 9.5 percent or
higher since July 2009. It reached 10.1 percent in October 2009,
the most since June 1983.  Switzerland’s currency surged as much as 2 percent to 97.27
centimes per dollar, the strongest level since Nov. 12, and gold
for February delivery added as much as 2 percent to $1,417 an
ounce as investors sought haven assets other than the greenback.  The Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, fell below 80 for
the first time in a week. The gauge slid 1.4 percent to 79.153.  The currencies of Canada and Mexico, which on average ship
about three-quarters of their exports to the U.S., were the two
worst performers among the dollar’s major peers. The Canadian
dollar declined 0.1 percent to C$1.0039 per greenback, and the
Mexican peso weakened 0.1 percent to 12.3369 per dollar.  ‘Slaves to the U.S.’  “With Mexico and Canada, they are slaves to the U.S., so
today is just a little bit of an adjustment,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market analyst at Interactive Brokers Group
LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. “This week risk takers acted
like marathon runners sprinting for the finish line, and today’s
report has served to give them a cramp. Expectations have been
pared after great risk-taking throughout the week.”  The greenback fell versus the euro Dec. 1 and stocks rose
as the  Institute for Supply Management’s factory index  showed
U.S. manufacturing expanded for a 16th straight month in
November. ADP Employer Services data showed American companies
boosted payrolls by 93,000 jobs, more than forecast.  The euro lost 6.9 percent versus the dollar last month, the
most since May, amid speculation Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
will spread from Greece and Ireland through the region.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  assured
investors yesterday that policy makers will delay their
withdrawal of stimulus measures and continue its bond-buying
program. The bank bought Portuguese and Irish debt again today.  The euro will fall to $1.30 in a year amid uncertainties
about sovereign debt in Europe and more bailouts, according to
 Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  It “obviously doesn’t look like a particularly bold call at
this juncture, but pointing toward minor dollar gains
eventually,” Ruskin said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg On the Economy” with Michael McKee and Sara
Eisen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Allison Bennett  in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  