-- Dollar ETF Call-Option Selling Raises Volume to Triple Four-Week Average
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2010-12-03T21:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/dollar-etf-call-option-selling-raises-volume-to-triple-four-week-average.html
An investor abandoning a bullish
options bet on the U.S. dollar pushed volume for contracts on an
exchange-traded fund tracking the currency to triple the four-
week average after America added fewer jobs than forecast.  About 105,000 calls giving the right to buy the  PowerShares
DB US Dollar Index Bullish Fund  changed hands in a single trade
of March $24 calls originally purchased on Oct. 27, according to
strategists at Susquehanna International Group LLP in Bala
Cynwyd, Pennsylvania. The trade at 9:50 a.m. New York time was
more than triple the 33,582 average daily volume for calls on
the ETF, which slid 1.2 percent to $22.88 at 4 p.m. New York
time.  “A sea change in attitude toward the dollar following
today’s weaker-than-expected employment report inspired one
options player to cut and run from a large bullish position,”
 Caitlin Duffy , an equity options analyst at Greenwich,
Connecticut-based Interactive Brokers Group Inc., wrote in a
report to clients.  The dollar slumped against 16 currencies and tumbled to a
three-week low versus the yen as U.S. employers added less than
one-third as many jobs as forecast last month, keeping
 unemployment  near a 26-year high and spurring speculation the
recovery is faltering. The dollar fell 1.4 percent to 82.63 yen
at 4:23 p.m. in New York.  The 105,000 contracts account for more than 10 percent of
the 978,395 total number of options linked to the ETF. The
contracts were sold at 24 cents, down from 34 cents on Oct. 27,
according to Susquehanna and Interactive Brokers.  Whomever initiated the trade “might be throwing in the
towel on hopes for additional gains in the dollar after the buck
slid on disappointing jobs data,”  Frederic Ruffy , senior
options strategist at WhatsTrading.com, a New York-based
provider of options-market analysis, wrote in a note to clients.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Investors use options
to guard against fluctuations in the price of securities they
own, speculate on share-price moves or bet that  volatility , or
stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Kearns  in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 