-- LeBron James Scores 38, Leads Heat to Win as Boos Greet Him in Cleveland
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-03T05:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/lebron-james-scores-38-leads-heat-to-win-as-boos-greet-him-in-cleveland.html
LeBron James  responded to the boos
and hostile chants in his return to Cleveland by scoring a
season-high 38 points and committing no turnovers to lead the
Miami Heat to a 118-90 win over the Cavaliers.  James scored 24 points during the third quarter last night
at Quicken Loans Arena and spent the rest of the game watching
from the bench as the Heat logged their second-largest margin of
victory this season.  It was the most points ever scored by a National Basketball
Association Most Valuable Player in his first game against his
former team, eclipsing 30-point performances by  Kareem Abdul- Jabbar  against Milwaukee and  Allen Iverson  against Philadelphia.  “We knew it was going to be a hostile environment with
what transpired this offseason,” James, who added eight assists
and five rebounds, said during a news conference. “For us to
come in and have that bunker mentality, focus on the game and
take care of business like we did was great.”  The hype for James’s return started five months ago, when
the NBA’s two-time reigning MVP announced July 8 in a nationally
televised hour-long ESPN show called “The Decision” that he’d
be taking his talents to South Beach.  James, 25, said he was drawn to Miami by friends  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh , and his confidence that the All-Star trio
could win the NBA championships that eluded him during his seven
seasons in Cleveland. James grew up in Akron, Ohio, about 40
miles (64 kilometers) from Cleveland, and his departure angered
a fan base in a city that last won a championship in a major
sport in 1964.  Burning Jerseys  Disgruntled Cavaliers fans burned replica jerseys in the
streets and owner  Dan Gilbert  called his exit a “cowardly
betrayal” in a letter to fans that drew a $100,000 fine from
NBA Commissioner  David Stern .  Several times last night, fans in the sellout crowd of
20,562 chanted “Akron hates you!” at James.  “They came out to support the Cavaliers any way possible,
to get myself or any of our guys unfocused on what the task
was,” said James, who went without a turnover for the first
time this season. “I don’t have any hard feelings about this
game or from these fans. I wish them the best.”  The NBA and the Cavaliers heightened security at the arena
as a precaution. Uniformed and undercover police were stationed
near Miami’s bench and along the route that leads to its locker
room.  Beer vendors used paper cups instead of plastic bottles
that might be used as projectiles. Fans were asked not to bring
signs or wear clothing that displayed obscenities or vulgarity
toward James or his family.  ‘Benedict Arnold’  There were still plenty of anti-James signs in the crowd,
among them “Traitors Don’t Leave Legacies” and “Benedict
Arnold Returns.” Other sentiments included “The Decision: Stay
or Betray?” and “Quitness,” a mocking reference to James’s
“Witness” campaign.  Boos rained down from the crowd each time James was shown
on the overhead video screens during warm-ups and during player
introductions. The jeers increased in volume when James stepped
to the scorer’s table and performed his signature pre-game
routine of putting talcum powder on his hands and throwing the
excess into the air while spreading his arms wide.  “I have the utmost respect for these fans because when I
was here they came out and supported us,” James said. “I
understand their frustration. Things could have been a little
different this summer from both sides, but I’m moving on and I’m
happy in the position that I’m in.”  Wedding Crasher  Cavaliers guard  Mo Williams , in describing the feelings
toward James in Cleveland, said James’ homecoming was “almost
like your ex-girlfriend coming to your wedding.”  On the court, however, James was seen several times smiling
and chatting with former Cleveland teammates during the first
half. When the final buzzer sounded, he hugged Williams at
midcourt.  The Heat used a 16-0 scoring run to take a 31-23 lead after
the opening quarter and increased their advantage to 59-40 at
halftime. James and Wade scored 14 points each.  James then hit 12 of 13 shots during the third quarter,
when Miami pushed its lead to as much as 38 points.  “I know this court and I’ve made a lot of shots on this
court,” said James. “I just wanted to stay aggressive.”  Miami finished with its biggest road win of the season,
having entered the game with a 2-5 record away from home.  Wade added 22 points, nine rebounds and nine assists for
the Heat, who improved to 12-8 overall, including an 11-1 record
against teams at or below .500.  The Cavaliers are now 7-11 without James, the franchise’s
all-time leading scorer.  Miami, which opened the season favored by oddsmakers to win
the NBA title, is 1-7 against teams with winning records.  “We just have to continue to get better,” James said.
“We know that every night we go out it’s going to be a hostile
environment. This was a good night for our team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  