-- LeBron James Greeted by Chorus of Boos in Return to Cleveland With Heat
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2010-12-03T01:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/lebron-james-greeted-by-chorus-of-boos-in-return-to-cleveland-with-heat.html
LeBron James  was greeted by boos and
hostile chants from Cavaliers fans in his return to Cleveland as
a member of the Miami Heat.  James was jeered as he took the court at Quicken Loans
Arena for the first time as a visiting player. More boos were
heard each time James was shown on the overhead video screens
during pre-game warm-ups, while fans directed chants at him and
held signs that read “Traitors Don’t Leave Legacies” and “The
Decision: Stay or Betray?”  A further round of catcalls greeted James’s signature pre-
game routine of putting talcum powder on his hands in front of
the scorer’s table and throwing the excess into the air.  The hype for James’s return started five months ago, when
the National Basketball Association’s two-time reigning Most
Valuable Player announced July 8 in a nationally televised hour-
long ESPN show called “The Decision” that he’d be taking his
talents to South Beach.  James, 25, said he was drawn to Miami by friends  Dwyane Wade  and  Chris Bosh , and his confidence that the All-Star trio
could win the NBA championships that eluded him during his seven
seasons in Cleveland.  James grew up in Akron, Ohio, about 40 miles (64
kilometers) from Cleveland, and his departure angered a fan base
in a city that last won a championship in a major sport in 1964.  Burning Jerseys  Disgruntled Cavaliers fans burned replica James jerseys in
the streets and owner  Dan Gilbert  called his exit a “cowardly
betrayal” in a letter to fans that drew a $100,000 fine from
NBA Commissioner  David Stern .  In August, James took out a full-page ad in the Akron
Beacon-Journal thanking his home town for its love and support.
It didn’t mention Cleveland, the Cavaliers or his time playing
basketball in the city.  As a precaution for tonight’s game, the NBA and the
Cavaliers heightened security at Quicken Loans Arena. Fans were
asked not to bring signs or wear clothing that displayed
obscenities or vulgarity toward James or his family.  Uniformed and undercover police will be stationed near
Miami’s bench and throughout the route that leads to its locker
room. Beer vendors will use cups instead of plastic bottles that
might be used as projectiles.  “We’ve never seen anything like this,” Hall of Famer
 Charles Barkley , an NBA analyst for TNT, said in a televised
interview. “We had  Brett Favre  going back to Green Bay, but
this thing is on steroids. It’s even bigger than that.”  Favre’s Return  Favre, a three-time National Football League MVP, returned
to Green Bay on Nov. 1, 2009, as quarterback of the rival
Minnesota Vikings after playing 16 seasons with the Packers. He
threw four touchdown passes as the Vikings won 38-26 at Lambeau
Field.  Cavaliers guard  Mo Williams , in describing the feelings
toward James in Cleveland, said tonight’s homecoming was
“almost like your ex-girlfriend coming to your wedding.”  President  Barack Obama , in response to a question from
reporters today about James’s return to Cleveland, said “Oh,
that’s going to be brutal, isn’t it?”  While the Heat opened the season favored by oddsmakers to
win the NBA title, they’ve started the season 11-8 and are in
third place in the Eastern Conference’s Southeast Division.  Miami is 10-1 against teams at or below .500 and 1-7
against teams with winning records.  The Cavaliers have started this season 7-10 without James,
the franchise’s all-time leading scorer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Erik Matuszewski  in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  