-- ECB Said to Purchase Irish, Portuguese, Greek Debt as Yield Spreads Narrow
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-03T15:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ecb-said-to-purchase-irish-portuguese-greek-debt-as-yield-spreads-narrow.html
The European Central Bank bought
Irish and Portuguese government bonds today, according to at
least four traders with knowledge of the transactions.  The ECB also purchased Greek debt, said another person, who
asked not to be identified because the deals are confidential.
An ECB spokesman in Frankfurt declined to comment.  The central bank also bought Irish and Portuguese bonds
yesterday, according to traders. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said then that the bond-buying program was ongoing.  “The timing for these reported bond purchases is
perfect,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “The ECB
is buying in an extremely illiquid year-end market. Its
purchases are always going to move the market in a big way. It
remains to be seen what the ECB will do into the new year when
the market is liquid again.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Portuguese
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds narrowed to less than 3
percentage points, or 300 basis points, for the first time since
Aug. 24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Irish 10-year bonds rose, pushing the 10-year yield down 37
basis points to 8.38 percent as of 3:09 p.m. in London. The
Portuguese yield slid 20 basis points to 6.11 percent, with the
yield on the 10-year Greek security falling 12 basis points to
11.72 percent.  Differing Programs  The ECB’s bond-buying program differs from so-called
quantitative easing policies pursued by the Federal Reserve and
the Bank of England because the central bank mops up the
liquidity created by the purchases, meaning the net effect on
the money supply is neutral.  The ECB began the program on May 10 to stabilize markets
rocked by the region’s sovereign-debt crisis. The purchases were
part of a European Union-led push to rescue the euro, which fell
to a four-year low on June 7 after Greece’s near default raised
concern that some nations in the region would struggle to
finance their budget deficits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  