-- ECB Bond Buying Triggers Biggest Drop in Corporate Debt Risk in Six Months
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2010-12-03T14:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ecb-bond-buying-triggers-biggest-decline-in-credit-default-risk-since-may.html
The cost of insuring against losses
on European corporate bonds fell for a third day after the
European Central Bank increased government bond purchases to
stem “acute” tensions in financial markets.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps
on 50 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings declined 9
basis points to 470, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices at
2:30 p.m. in London. The gauge is down from 526 on Nov. 30, the
biggest three-day decline since May 12.  The central bank delayed withdrawing emergency liquidity
measures and bought more government bonds yesterday, while
stopping short of deploying new crisis-fighting tools. Pressure
is increasing on ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  to halt
contagion from the region’s sovereign deficit crisis.  “Trichet is playing a dangerous game - the market demands
action, and he has precious few cards left to play,” said  Bill Blain , the co-head of fixed income at Matrix Corporate Capital
LLC. “But this week he’s played his hand well.”  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments also fell for a third day, dropping to 174.5 basis
points from a record high 200.75 on Nov. 30.  “It’s been a one way street for the last month on very
irrational contagion,” said  Laurent Fransolet , head of European
fixed-income strategy at Barclays Capital in London. “It’s only
normal that at some point you stop that trend and reverse.”  iTraxx Europe  Credit markets briefly pared the rally after the U.S. Labor
Department said payrolls increased 39,000, less than the most
pessimistic projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
after a revised 172,000 increase the prior month. The jobless
rate rose to 9.8 percent.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings decreased 1.25 basis points to 106.5,
JPMorgan prices show.  The cost of protecting bank bonds from default also fell,
with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers down 8 at 142 and the subordinated
index 12 lower at 272.  A basis point on a credit-default swap contract protecting
10 million euros ($13.3 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A decline
signals improvement in perceptions of credit quality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Abigail Moses  in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  