-- Legend Said to Seek Asian Buyers for Part of Australian Phosphate Business
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2010-12-03T06:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/legend-said-to-seek-buyers-for-parts-of-australian-phosphate-operations.html
Legend International Holdings Inc., 
backed by Soros Fund Management LLC, will next week approach
buyers for part of its Australian phosphate project that’s worth
as much as $1 billion, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter.  The Melbourne-based company will ask for preliminary bids
in early January, said the person who declined to be identified
because the details are private. Legend International hired
 Nomura Holdings Inc.  to advise on strategic transactions for the
deposits in the Georgina Basin in Queensland state, according to
 a Dec. 2 statement.  “We’re looking for a strategic partner who has expertise
in phosphate fertilizers and also has the financial muscle to
assist us in building an $800 million plant,” Chief Executive
Officer  Joseph Gutnick  said in an interview, without giving a
timeframe. “It’s very hard to put a value until we get into
production or we export phosphate rocks. I wouldn’t like to
guess a figure at this stage.”  The company is planning to build a plant that will start
output in 2013 at an annual rate of 1.8 million metric tons of
nutrient fertilizers a year, it said in the statement. Demand
for fertilizers is rising as shrinking arable land and rising
world food demand spurs consumption and takeovers.  Legend International’s phosphate deposits may be valued at
between $500 million to $1 billion, the person said. The company
owns total mineral deposits of 1.2 billion tons near the city of
Mount Isa, according to its  website.   Asian Buyers  The company will approach potential partners in China,
Korea, Japan, India and Southeast Asia, Gutnick said. He hasn’t
decided whether to sell a majority or minority stake as that
will depend on the partner who may choose to take out a loan or
invest in the project, Gutnick said.  Anne Lui , a Hong Kong spokeswoman at Nomura, declined to
comment.  World food prices climbed for a fifth month in November,
rising to the highest level in more than two years, according to
the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization. The FAO’s
index of 55 food commodities jumped to 205.4 points, the highest
level since July 2008, the Rome-based agency said in a monthly
report on Dec. 1.  Soros Fund Management LLC owns 10.4 percent of the company,
Atticus Capital LP, a New York-based hedge fund, owns 13.5
percent, according to Legend’s website.  Takeovers  Legend’s phosphate and mining business consists of three
phosphate deposits in Mount Isa in the Georgina Basin. The
company proposes developing the project in two stages, including
a phosphate fertilizer complex and a beneficiation plant that
will be used to upgrade phosphate ores mined, the statement said.  “The outlook for global phosphate demand and prices is
very attractive on the back of the growth in global food demand,
increasing importance of food security and emergence of
phosphate fertilizer as a key ingredient in enhancing food
supply,” said  Sheryar Chishty, global head of industrials
investment banking at Nomura, in the statement.  K+S AG, Europe’s largest potash producer, agreed to buy
Canada’s Potash One Inc. for C$434 million ($427 million) in
November, the same month that BHP Billiton Ltd. abandoned its
$40 billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. after
Canada’s government objected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Cathy Chan  in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ; 