-- Telekom Malaysia, Nation's Biggest Fund Sell 2010's Best-Performing Stocks
-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2010-12-03T04:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/telekom-malaysia-nation-s-biggest-fund-sell-2010-s-best-performing-stocks.html
Telekom Malaysia Bhd.  and the
nation’s biggest pension fund sold stakes in two of the
country’s best-performing stocks, taking advantage of rising
inflows of foreign funds that helped to boost share prices.  Telekom, the state-controlled fixed telephone operator,
raised 414 million ringgit ($131 million) selling 90 million
shares of  Axiata Group Bhd. , two people with knowledge of the
transaction said. The Employees Provident Fund, Malaysia’s
biggest pension fund, sold a 4.5 percent stake in  RHB Capital
Bhd.  for 746 million ringgit, two people with direct knowledge
of the matter said.  “Investors’ risk appetite is there,” said  Pankaj Kumar ,
who oversees $560 million as chief investment officer of Kurnia
Insurans Malaysia Bhd. near Kuala Lumpur. The sales are helping
to “create the liquidity within these stocks.”  Axiata’s 55 percent surge and RHB Capital’s 50 percent
advance this year make the shares the best performers on the
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index . The Southeast Asian benchmark
gauge has risen 18 percent and reached an reached an intraday
 record  of 1,531.99 on Nov. 10 as international investors
purchased more of the nation’s stocks than at any time since at
least 1995, according to data compiled by EPFR Global.  The share sales comes after Prime Minister  Najib Razak 
called on state-linked institutions in March to cut their stakes
in public companies to boost stock market liquidity and attract
foreign investors. Khazanah Nasional Bhd., a government
investment agency, this year sold shares in companies including
 Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd. ,  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd.  and
 Telekom Malaysia Bhd.   Foreign funds were net buyers of Malaysian stocks for a
sixth consecutive month through November,  Tan Ting Min , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG said in a report today, citing
data from the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chan Tien Hin  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net ;
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  