-- Ten-Year Treasury Yields Near Highest Since July Before Employment Report
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-03T12:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ten-year-treasury-yields-near-highest-since-july-before-employment-report.html
Ten-year Treasury yields were near
the highest since July before a government report that is
forecast to show U.S. employers added jobs for a second month.  Ten-year notes headed for a weekly loss as global stocks
gained and economists said separate figures today will show
service industries, which account for almost 90 percent of the
economy, grew at the fastest pace since May. The Federal Reserve
is scheduled to buy $6 billion to $8 billon of Treasuries due
from 2013 to 2014 today as part of its plan to spur the economy.  “Market focus is very much on the non-farm payrolls and
ISM data,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at
WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, Germany. “Positive data have been the
trigger for the selloff in rates in the U.S. Today’s numbers may
add to evidence that growth is picking up, and that should
support risk appetite.”  Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at 3 percent
as of 7:12 a.m. in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data.
The 2.625 percent security maturing in November 2020 traded at a
price of 96 25/32. Yields climbed to 3.03 percent yesterday, the
highest level since July 29.  Yields will end June at 2.78 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies, with the
most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  The yield difference between two-year and 10-year notes,
the so-called yield curve, rose to the highest level in more
than five months. The curve steepened by one basis point to 246
basis points today. That’s the most since June 22, according to
Bloomberg generic data.  Bernanke’s Comment  U.S. employers added 150,000 workers last month, after
hiring 151,000 in October, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The advances haven’t been
large enough to bring down  unemployment , which held at 9.6
percent, according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  Data from the Institute for Supply Management today will
show its non-manufacturing index rose to 54.8 last month,
according to another Bloomberg survey. That’s up from 54.3 in
October and the highest level since May. A reading of more than
50 signals growth.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Nov. 30 that the economy
is “not growing fast enough to materially reduce the
unemployment rate” and the rate is “about the same as it was
when the recession officially ended.”  Declines in Treasuries may be limited after Fed Bank of
Cleveland President Sandra Pianalto said core inflation is
likely “to remain quite subdued through 2013.” She spoke
yesterday in Oberlin, Ohio. The measure of inflation increased
0.6 percent in October from the year before, the least on
record, Labor Department data show.  Housing Recovery  The figure will slow to 0.2 percent in the second half of
2011, according to BNP Paribas, one of the 18 primary dealers
that are required to bid at the government’s debt sales.  Treasuries still headed for a weekly loss, with 10-year
yields rising about 13 basis points, after a private report
yesterday showed a pickup in the housing market.  “Bonds will be a bit weaker,” said  Satoshi Okumoto , a
general manager in Tokyo at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
which has the equivalent of $66.8 billion in assets. “We have
been seeing better-than-expected economic figures.” Ten-year
yields will rise to 3.25 percent by June 30, he said.  Benchmark yields increased four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, after the prior employment report on Nov. 5,
when payrolls exceeded all estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Treasuries went on to hand investors a 0.7 percent loss
last month, the steepest decline since March, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 