-- Mets Relief Pitcher Rodriguez Pleads Guilty to Assaulting Girlfriend's Dad
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-12-03T17:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/mets-relief-pitcher-rodriguez-pleads-guilty-to-assaulting-girlfriend-s-dad.html
New York Mets  pitcher  Francisco Rodriguez , arrested for assaulting his girlfriend’s father at
Citi Field last August and later charged with contempt for
violating an order of protection against the girlfriend, pleaded
guilty today in Queens Criminal Court in New York.  Rodriguez was ordered to enroll in a 52-session anger
management program, reimburse the woman’s father $14,445 for
medical expenses and pay a $1,000 fine.  Queens District Attorney Richard Brown  said in a statement
that the key to resolving the case was that Rodriguez “take
responsibility for his actions, acknowledge that he has an anger
management problem and that he address the issue -- for his own
sake and that of his family.”  Brown said if the relief pitcher fails to complete any of
the conditions of his sentence, he could be re-sentenced and
have to serve up to 120 days in jail.  Brown said Rodriguez, 28, confronted Carlos Pena in a
hallway outside the team’s family lounge and hit him in the face
several times. Pena was taken to a Queens hospital and treated
for cuts and bruises, according to the district attorney’s
statement.  The pitcher tore a ligament in the thumb of his pitching
hand during the altercation and required season-ending surgery.  Rodriguez  later sent the man’s daughter, Daian Pena, the
mother of his twins, 56 text messages to apologize for the
incident after the judge told him not to contact her.  Rodriguez entered a plea of guilty to third-degree assault
in the assault case and a plea of guilty to two counts of
disorderly conduct in the contempt case.  In addition to the anger management program, Queens
Criminal Court Judge Mary R. O’Donoghue issued a two-year order
of protection, requiring Rodriguez stay away from the father and
daughter, subject to custodial and support issues relating to
the couple’s children.  Rodriguez, who signed with the Mets in 2008 and is expected
to return to the team next season, was 4-2 with 25 saves and a
2.25 ERA last season.  The district attorney said Rodriguez will attend the first
14 sessions of his anger management counseling in Venezuela,
where he is playing winter baseball. The next 14 sessions will
be in Port St. Lucie, Florida, when he reports to spring
training. The final 24 sessions will be in Queens when he
reports for the regular season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  