-- European Stocks Post Weekly Advance After ECB Extends Liquidity Measures
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-12-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/european-stocks-post-weekly-advance-after-ecb-extends-liquidity-measures.html
European stocks  posted the first
weekly advance in four as the European Central Bank delayed its
withdrawal of emergency liquidity measures and bought government
bonds in Portugal, Ireland and Greece.  Bank of Ireland Plc  surged 22 percent as euro-region
governments agreed to hand the nation an 85 billion-euro ($114
billion) aid package.  Porsche SE  gained 12 percent after the
approval of a 5 billion-euro stock sale to reduce debt.
Fresnillo Plc and  ArcelorMittal  led basic-resources stocks
higher, rising more than 7 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rose 1.6 percent to 270.94 this
past week, bringing the gauge to within 1 percent of this year’s
highest level. The measure has rallied 17 percent since its 2010
low in May, amid better-than-estimated company earnings and
speculation policymakers in the U.S. and elsewhere will
implement more stimulus measures to prop up the recovery.  “Risk is ‘on’ again following the ECB’s latest offers of
support for peripheral Europe, but this may mark only a brief
interlude in what has recently been mainly a ‘risk off’
period,”  Robert Carnell , chief international economist at ING
Financial Markets in London, wrote in a report. “Policymakers’
attempts at defensive efforts, such as the ECB’s recent
announcements, have tended to provide fleeting support at best.
It is hard to see what is going to provide a lasting change in
market sentiment.”  ‘Acute’ Tensions  The ECB said it will delay the withdrawal of emergency
liquidity measures and keep buying government bonds as the debt
crisis creates “acute” tensions in financial markets. The
central bank will offer banks unlimited loans through the first
quarter over periods of seven days, one month and three months,
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told reporters on Dec. 2.  The central bank bought Irish, Portuguese and Greek bonds
this week, said traders with knowledge of the transactions who
asked not to be identified because the deals are confidential.
An ECB spokesman in Frankfurt declined to comment.  “Lots of hedge funds covered shorts into the ECB
meeting,” said  Adrian Darley , who helps oversee about $100
billion as head of European equities at Ignis Investment
Services Ltd. in London. “Long-only investors also bought some
financials to reduce the extent of their underweighting” tied
to sovereign fears.  IMF Welcome  The International Monetary Fund welcomed measures announced
by the ECB and European governments to address the region’s debt
crisis. European authorities have managed “to come up with
measures and proposals to address the problem collectively as
well as in a number of countries,” IMF Director of External
Relations  Caroline Atkinson  said at a press briefing in
Washington on Dec. 2. “Countries facing market pressure have
also taken steps which we applaud.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 16 out of 18 western
European markets. Germany’s DAX Index and the U.K.’s  FTSE 100
Index  each gained 1.4 percent, while France’s CAC 40 Index
advanced 0.6 percent.  Ireland’s ISEQ ended the week 2.8 percent higher after the
government accepted a European Union-led bailout. Spain’s IBEX
35 rallied 4.9 percent for the biggest weekly gain since July as
 Banco Santander SA  soared 11 percent.  European stocks fell for the first two days of the week
amid concern that the region’s debt turmoil may engulf Spain,
the euro area’s fourth-largest economy, after the Irish rescue
failed to persuade investors that the crisis will be contained.
The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish and Italian
government bonds instead of German bunds climbed to euro-era
records on Nov. 30.  Bank of Ireland  Bank of Ireland climbed 22 percent for the  best performance 
in the Stoxx 600. Ireland’s banks will get as much as 35 billion
euros of EU and IMF aid while senior bondholders will escape the
cost of the bailout.  Porsche increased 12 percent, leading automobile shares to
the biggest gain among 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600.
Investors approved plans for a stock sale to reduce the sports-
car maker’s debt as it prepares to combine with Volkswagen AG,
Europe’s largest carmaker.  VW preferred shares gained 6.1 percent.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG, the world’s
biggest makers of luxury cars, rose 7.5 percent and 4.7 percent
respectively after reporting higher U.S. sales for November.  Fresnillo, ArcelorMittal  Basic-resources stocks  were the second-best performing
industry in Europe this week, as metal prices advanced. Copper
posted its first weekly advance in four as reports showed
manufacturing in China, the U.S. and Europe expanded, adding to
signs of a revival in demand.  Fresnillo, the world’s largest primary silver producer,
soared 8.7 percent. ArcelorMittal, the biggest steelmaker,
increased 7.9 percent.  De La Rue Plc  surged 18 percent, the biggest gain in eight
years. The Financial Times cited a BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research report giving the world’s biggest printer of banknotes
a “fair value” of as much as 830 pence a share.  Carrefour SA  sank 9.1 percent, the most since May, as the
world’s second-largest retailer cut its 2010 profit forecast for
the second time in two months, citing increased writedowns in
Brazil and lower-than-expected demand in Europe.  Thomas Cook Group Plc  dropped 7.4 percent. Europe’s second-
biggest tour operator posted a full-year loss of 2.6 million
pounds ($4 million) as the shutdown of European airspace after a
volcanic eruption disrupted travel business and led to one-time
costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 