-- Eurotech May Post Net Income in 2011 After Adding Cloud Computing Services
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2010-12-03T08:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/eurotech-may-post-2011-net-income-after-adding-cloud-services-chief-says.html
Eurotech SpA , an Italian maker of
miniature computers, said it may post a net income next year as
it adds services such as cloud computing, which lets users
access data, software and hardware through the Web.  “With cloud computing, we aim to serve companies that
previously couldn’t afford the IT infrastructure, increasing the
number of potential clients and expanding beyond our niche,”
Chief Executive Officer  Roberto Siagri  said in a phone
interview. “If the positive trend continues and the economy
holds up, we will likely post a profit at the bottom line level
in 2011.”  Eurotech  is set to post a net loss this year after
reporting a loss of 7.23 million euros ($9.55 million) in the
first nine months. Full-year revenue is projected to grow in
line with the nine months through September, when it rose 14
percent to 65.8 million euros, the CEO said. The order backlog
grew more than 50 percent in the nine months from a year
earlier, Siagri said.  Finmeccanica SpA , Italy’s biggest defense company, owns 11
percent of Amaro, Italy-based Eurotech, according to the website
of market regulator Consob. Siagri, the second-biggest investor
with about 7 percent, plans to keep his stake “for the time
being,” he said.  On Nov. 15, Eurotech unveiled its Everyware Device Cloud, a
system which can be set up “very quickly” to allow companies
to access and share hardware, software, applications and data on
any device, Siagri said.  “It used to take months and even years to plan, procure,
and deploy IT infrastructure to connect embedded devices to the
network and capture valuable data,” Siagri said. “Today you
can do it in minutes.”  Research Spending  “We’ll keep investing in growth and R&D to increase the
value of the company and its share price,” Siagri said. After
the company returns to profit at the net level, it may consider
paying a dividend “if there’s room.”  Eurotech’s products include high-performance computers,
embedded boards and portable, nano devices such as  wrist-
wearable  computers. Its rugged  handheld mobile computer s, which
are resistant to extreme temperature, vibrations and water, are
used in logistics, transportation, health-care, defense and
security industries.  Eurotech, whose clients include  Lockheed Martin Corp.  and
 Johnson Controls Inc. , generates almost half of its revenue in
the U.S., where it plans to sign clients for its new cloud
services “soon,” Siagri said.  In September, Eurotech signed an accord with  Intel Corp .’s
Wind River Systems Inc. unit, a maker of operating systems used
in machines including cars and wireless handsets, to collaborate
and “speed embedded application development.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chiara Remondini  in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 