-- Euro Heads for Fourth Weekly Loss on European Debt Crisis; Won Strengthens
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2010-12-03T08:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/euro-heads-for-fourth-weekly-loss-on-european-debt-crisis-won-strengthens.html
The euro headed for a fourth weekly
decline against the dollar, the longest run of weakness since
May, amid concern European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  hasn’t done enough to calm the region’s debt crisis.  The single currency fell versus the yen after Standard &
Poor’s said it may cut Greece’s credit rating as proposed
European Union rules threaten to hurt bondholders. South Korea’s
won rose, headed for a weekly gain, as overseas investors
boosted their holdings of the nation’s shares for a third day.
The Dollar Index slipped before a report that may show U.S.
payrolls rose in November, according to a survey of economists.  “Trichet swatting everyone’s concerns away by saying they
shouldn’t be concerned is no remedy in my book,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist in London at Bank of New York
Mellon Corp., the world’s biggest custodian of financial assets.
“Fundamentally nothing has changed. None of the issues raised
by the market have been addressed. The benefit of the doubt must
still lie with a weaker euro.”  The euro traded at $1.3213 as of 8:25 a.m. in London, from
$1.3209 in New York yesterday, and $1.3242 on Nov. 26. The 16-
nation currency was at 110.51 yen, from 110.73 yen, down 0.8
percent in the week. The yen strengthened to 83.67 per dollar,
from 83.82.  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate at a
record low of 1 percent yesterday and extended an emergency loan
program to combat “acute” market tensions. The ECB will keep
mopping up extra liquidity from its bond purchases, Trichet said
at a press conference in Frankfurt.  Greek ‘CreditWatch’  Greece’s ‘BB+’ long-term sovereign rating was placed on
“CreditWatch” with negative implications, S&P said in a
statement yesterday from Madrid. The rating company said it was
assessing credit implications of the so-called European
Stability Mechanism that may govern EU sovereign bonds beginning
in July 2013.  The won strengthened for a third day as funds based abroad
bought $373 million more Korean shares than they sold yesterday,
the biggest net purchases in almost three weeks, exchange data
show.  U.S. employment increased by 150,000 last month, after
rising 151,000 in October, according to a Bloomberg survey
before Labor Department report.  The  Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, slipped 0.2 percent to 80.157.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  