-- Level 3 Says Comcast Fee Is Meant to Guard TV Business
-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 2010-12-03T21:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/level-3-says-comcast-fee-is-meant-to-guard-tv-business-update1-.html
Level 3 Communications Inc. , accusing
 Comcast Corp.  of setting up a “toll booth” for Web traffic,
said the cable carrier is trying to protect its TV business by
charging Level 3 for delivering video to its customers.  “Online distribution of movies, TV shows and other content
threatens Comcast’s traditional ‘closed’ video distribution
model,” the company said. Broomfield, Colorado-based Level 3,
which provides broadband services to customers including Netflix
Inc., made the statement in a 19-point public letter today.  The dispute revolves around the Web traffic that the two
send to each others’ networks. Comcast says that because Level 3
sends more data its way than Comcast sends, Level 3 should pay
for the difference.  Level 3  says that argument isn’t valid,
because it’s an Internet middleman who delivers traffic from
content providers, while Comcast provides Internet service to
consumers and controls that end-user relationship.  “You simply cannot ‘route around’ Comcast to provide
requested content to Comcast’s subscribers,” Level 3 said.  Level 3 has accused Comcast of violating U.S. Federal
Communications Commission guidelines by demanding the payments.
By erecting the fee, Comcast is trying to prevent competing
content from being delivered to its subscribers, Level 3 says.  Comcast has said it offered Level 3 the same terms it gives
to other content delivery networks, and that Level 3 is trying
to pressure Comcast into accepting more than a two-fold increase
in the amount of data put on its system for free.  No Customer Impact  “The most important thing to know about this dispute is
that Comcast will do absolutely nothing to impact our high-speed
Internet customers, who can and will be able to access any
Internet content that they want, including streaming video from
all sources,” said  Sena Fitzmaurice , a Comcast spokeswoman, in
an e-mailed statement.  Comcast is committed to resolve the dispute fairly and
“consistently with industry principles,” she said.  Level 3 said on Nov. 11 that it will carry films and TV
shows for Netflix. The popular Web-streaming service accounts
for more than a fifth of the traffic downloaded during the peak
hours of 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. in the U.S., according to broadband
network company Sandvine Inc.  Not About Netflix  Level 3 is trying to send five times more traffic to
 Comcast  than Comcast sends to Level 3 and if the positions were
reversed, Level 3 would also demand a fee, Comcast said.  “Comcast’s characterization could not be more
misleading,” Level 3 said today. “What is truly at state is
whether consumers should have unfettered access to all the
content on the Internet.” Level 3 maintains that the spat is
about preserving the free and open Internet and not about its
deal with Netflix.  The accusation comes at an inopportune time for Comcast.
The largest U.S. cable operator is currently undergoing FCC and
Justice Department reviews’ for its proposed takeover of General
Electric Co.’s NBC Universal Inc.  Critics of the deal, such as Representative  Rick Boucher , a
Virginia Democrat and head of a U.S. House panel on
communications, are concerned that a merger would restrict
customers’ access to content, particularly programs available
online.  FCC to Investigate  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-based analyst for Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said this week the investigation into the Level
3 fees could delay the approvals that Comcast needs to complete
the merger. She had said previously that it was likely the
review of the deal would extend into early 2011.  Comcast remains focused on regulatory approval by year-end,
 Sena Fitzmaurice , a spokeswoman for the cable company, said on
Nov. 30. The dispute with Level 3 is unrelated to the NBC
Universal transaction, she said.  The FCC will examine Level 3’s complaint, Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said on Nov. 30. A day later, he set a vote on rules
to bar Internet service providers from interfering with
subscribers’ Web traffic.  Comcast fell 1 cent to $20.71 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading. Shares of the Philadelphia-based company have gained 23
percent this year. Level 3, down 36 percent this year, rose 1
cent to 98 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kelly Riddell  in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  