-- Second Former UBS Banker Snared in U.S. Municipal-Bond Bid-Rigging Probe
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2010-12-03T17:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ex-ubs-muni-bond-banker-arrested-on-wire-fraud-tied-to-bid-rigging-probe.html
A former co-head of  UBS AG ’s
municipal derivatives group faces a fraud charge tied to a
$100,000 kickback for steering an investment agreement with a
U.S. state to another bank.  Peter Ghavami , a Belgian national living in Moscow, was
arrested Dec. 1 after arriving at John F. Kennedy International
Airport, the U.S. Justice Department said yesterday. Ghavami,
with UBS from 1999 until 2007, is the second former employee of
the Zurich-based bank to be ensnared in the federal price-fixing
probe of investment contracts governments buy with money raised
in the $2.8 trillion municipal bond market.  “Pernicious fraud schemes like the one alleged in this
complaint undermine the public’s confidence and trust in the
municipal bond and derivatives markets,”  Christine Varney , the
department’s antitrust division chief, said yesterday in a
 statement  posted on its website.  Eight former bankers and financial advisers, including ex-
employees of UBS,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Bank of America
Corp. , have pleaded guilty to cheating taxpayers by conspiring
with brokers to pay states and local governments below-market
rates on investments purchased with bond proceeds.  Kelly Smith , a UBS spokeswoman in New York, declined to
comment.  The arrest of Ghavami is the second action this week to
emerge from the four-year investigation. On Nov. 30, former
JPMorgan banker  James L. Hertz  admitted to participating in bid-
rigging and fraud conspiracies that delivered profits to Wall
Street at taxpayer expense.  CDR Financial Case  In the case against one firm, CDR Financial Products Inc.
of Los Angeles, prosecutors say it included more than 200 deals
involving about 160 state agencies, local governments and
nonprofits from  California  to Pennsylvania.  Three former CDR employees pleaded guilty to charges this
year and agreed to cooperate with investigators. Three others
are fighting the charges. CDR itself faces a September trial on
related conspiracy charges, according to the Justice Department.  CDR faces a fine of as much as $100 million, if convicted,
the government has said. In a statement on its website in
October 2009, the company said the charges are “without merit
and in fact, a total fiction based on a lack of understanding of
the municipal reinvestment market.”  The criminal investigation centers on investment agreements
that municipalities enter with money raised through bond sales.
The so-called guaranteed investment contracts let them earn a
return until the cash is needed for schools, roads or other
public works. The U.S. Treasury Department encourages
competitive bidding to ensure that localities get market rates.  Inside Information  Prosecutors have said that favored bankers got inside
information from brokers who handled bidding for the contracts
so they could carve up the market. In some cases, bankers
admitted paying kickbacks to brokers.  The case against Ghavami, also known as Peter
Ghavamilahidji according to the Justice Department complaint,
was aided by the testimony of a former colleague and cooperating
witnesses from CDR and a Charlotte, North Carolina-based
financial company. The complaint didn’t identify the company.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, has been aiding the
Justice Department probe since 2007 in return for leniency. In
September,  Douglas Lee Campbell , a former municipal derivatives
executive with the bank, pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate.
In May,  Mark Zaino , who worked for UBS’s municipal bond and
derivatives trading desk from 2001 to 2006, pleaded guilty to
participating in a conspiracy to rig bids for the contracts.  Arranged the Deal  Ghavami worked as a broker in 2001 to an unidentified state
that sought a contract to invest bond proceeds, the Justice
Department said in its previously sealed complaint, dated Sept.
16. While the agreement was supposed to be awarded to the
lowest-cost bidder, Ghavami arranged for the deal to go to the
unidentified Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank in exchange
for a kickback to be paid to his employer in 2002, according to
the complaint.  Ghavami had a certificate, falsely claiming that the price
of the investment contract was determined through an arms-length
transaction, delivered to the state issuer in November 2001, the
complaint said. It said the certificate also stated that
Ghavami’s employer didn’t expect to be paid any broker or
bidding agent’s fee tied to the contract.  Seeking $100,000  After that bank won the agreement, Ghavami asked the
unidentified CDR employee to call the banker and remind him to
pay the kickback. In February 2002, Ghavami’s employer received
the $100,000, which was “disguised as a ‘re-hedge’ fee,” the
government said. Previous pleadings showed that bankers hid
kickbacks as sham fees connected to derivative transactions.  At his arraignment yesterday, Ghavami didn’t enter a plea
and is being held, according to Alisa Finelli, a Justice
Department spokeswoman. She said he is due back in court Jan. 3.  James A. Mitchell , a lawyer with Stillman, Friedman &
Shechtman and representing Ghavami, didn’t immediately return a
call to his office after regular business hours seeking comment.  So far, 15 former bankers and advisers have been charged in
the investigation. Court records obtained by Bloomberg also
identify co-conspirators from banks including  Citigroup Inc. ,
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  and  Wachovia Corp.  who haven’t
been charged.  SEC Notice  UBS received a notice from the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission on Feb. 4, 2008, that the agency was considering
suing the bank in connection with the bidding of financial
instruments associated with municipal bonds. UBS is cooperating
with the Justice Department and the SEC, according to the bank’s
latest quarterly report.  After leaving UBS in 2007, Ghavami worked in London for
Lehman as head of Russian Capital Markets. In September 2009, he
became head of global markets for Troika Dialog, a Moscow-based
private investment bank.  In a statement, Troika Dialog said it was aware of the
Justice Department’s allegations against Ghavami.  “These allegations relate to the time period several years
before Peter joined Troika Dialog,” the bank said in an e-
mailed statement.  Ghavami faces as much as 20 years in prison and a $250,000
fine, if convicted, according to the Justice Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 