-- Mexico Says Climate Talks Going `Well,' Kyoto Debate Can Wait 2 More Years
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2010-12-03T16:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/mexico-says-climate-talks-going-well-kyoto-debate-can-wait-2-more-years.html
United Nations climate talks in
Cancun, Mexico, are proceeding “well” and a debate over the
future of the Kyoto Protocol treaty can wait two more years,
Mexican Environment Minister  Juan Rafael Elvira Quesada  said.  With a week of negotiations to go, it’s too early to tell
what final decisions will emerge though agreements are within
reach on protecting forests, setting up a “green fund” to
channel climate aid and formalizing emission-reduction pledges
made last year by the biggest polluters, Elvira Quesada said in
an interview in the Mexican resort.  “It’s like the 10th minute of a football match,” Elvira
Quesada said yesterday. “We’ve just started seeing how the
 negotiations  are beginning to unwrap. What really grabs the
attention is the spirit, the attitude, the disposition of all
the countries. In general, the whole process is going well.”  Japan’s rejection of taking new commitments under the Kyoto
treaty when current ones expire in 2012 need not be a barrier to
progress, the minister said. Delegates from China and Brazil
said the development could derail the discussions in Mexico.  “The  Kyoto Protocol  doesn’t need to be changed from here
to Dec. 10,” when the current round of talks end, he said. “It
still has 2 years left of life, and we can dedicate ourselves to
other areas where the world expects solutions.”  Japanese negotiator  Kuni Shimada  said in a Nov. 30
interview that the protocol is outdated because it doesn’t set
targets for the world’s two biggest emitters, the U.S. and
China. The U.S. never ratified the pact, which sets no binding
greenhouse-gas emissions goals for developing nations.  Just Add Annex  Elvira Quesada said an eventual solution could be to
maintain the Kyoto treaty, which was devised in 1997, and add an
annex or another legal document that brings in the U.S., China
and other major emitters.  In Cancun, emissions pledges could be formalized that were
made by nations at last year’s summit in Copenhagen, he said.
The pledges aren’t yet included in a formal UN document.  Delegates in Mexico could also agree to set up a green fund
to channel aid to adaptation and emissions-reduction projects in
developing nations, Elvira Quesada said. Details on the
management of the fund, its sources of finance and how it picks
recipients could be decided afterwards, he said.  “There needs to be a balanced set of decisions that are
useful to every country in the world so that every country in
the world can go home and say ‘this is the benefit we reap,’”
the minister said. Even so, he warned against holding some areas
of the talks hostage to progress in other areas. “The perfect
solution is the enemy of the good agreement,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  