-- FAA Made $161 Million in Improper Payments in Fiscal 2008, Inspector Says
-- B y   J o h n   H u g h e s
-- 2010-12-03T22:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/faa-made-161-million-in-improper-airport-payments-report-says.html
The U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration made about $161 million in improper payments for
airport projects in fiscal 2008, or about 5 percent of $3.2
billion in grants the agency distributed, an inspector general’s
 report  found.  Nearly half of payments were for ineligible services or
recipients, the wrong amounts or duplications, according to the
Transportation Department  inspector general  report. The rest was
for work not sufficiently documented, according to the report
released today in Washington. The FAA disputed the results.  The improper payments are “unacceptable, and the FAA must
take immediate, strong steps to ensure they do not occur,”
Representative  Jerry Costello , an Illinois Democrat who is
chairman of the House aviation subcommittee, said in a
statement. Airport funds “must not be wasted.”  The report places congressional scrutiny on an FAA program
that President  George W. Bush ’s administration’s attempted to
cut for four straight years, most recently in 2008, when he
sought to reduce its funding to $2.75 billion from $3.5 billion.
Congress rejected the cuts each time.  “We strongly disagree” with calculations in the report,
the FAA said in an e-mailed statement. “We have determined that
the vast majority of these payments were made properly.”  Performance Bonuses  The inspector general’s office reached its conclusion after
examining $251 million in payments to 26 grant recipients in the
Airport Improvement Program in 2007 and 2008. Auditors said they
found $13.1 million in improper payments to 17 recipients. The
agency then estimated the overall amount of improper payments
through statistical sampling, according to the report.  Airports use the money under the program to build runways,
resurface taxiways and for other capital projects. The federal
government collects the funds from taxes on airline tickets, jet
fuel and other aviation items, and then distributes it to
airports based on the number of passengers they handle and their
construction needs.  The Memphis-Shelby County Airport Authority in Tennessee
received $680,000 for performance bonuses, which are prohibited
by FAA regulations, according to the report. The Panama City-Bay
County International Airport in Florida overbilled FAA by
$122,000 on one grant, according to the inspector.  Documentation Gaps  Farmington, New Mexico, requested and received an
electronic payment of $434,000 from the FAA, only to request a
manual distribution for the same amount a week later and receive
it. The FAA recovered the extra payment after being informed of
the error by the grant recipient, the report showed.  Santa Barbara, California, received $124,700 for pipe drain
installations and couldn’t provide the inspector records to
support claims that the work was completed, the report showed.  According to the FAA statement, an independent team
reviewed payments made in 2009 and 2010 and found a continued
decrease in the number of distributions made without complete
documentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Hughes  in Washington at 
 jhughes5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 