-- Failed World Cup Bid Head Says England, U.S. Shouldn't Try to Win Again
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2010-12-03T11:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/failed-world-cup-bid-head-says-england-u-s-shouldn-t-try-to-win-again.html
The U.S. and England shouldn’t bid
for the World Cup again until soccer’s governing body
changes the way it decides where sport’s most-watched event is
staged, the leader of England’s failed effort for 2018 said
today.  The two countries scored highest in technical and economic
reports commissioned by FIFA, the body which governs the sport.
Yet, the 22-member executive committee opted for Russia to host
the 2018 event and Gulf state Qatar to stage it four years
later. Both bids scored lowest in technical assessments in their
respective contests.  “Don’t bother if technical and economic evaluations are
not going to matter,” England 2018 CEO  Andy Anson  told
reporters in Zurich today. “I would say right now, ‘Don’t
bother until you know that the process is going to change to
allow bids like ours to win.’”  England was eliminated in the first round of voting in a
contest that also featured joint bids from Spain-Portugal and
the Netherlands-Belgium. The U.S. and Qatar went into a final
vote after the elimination of Korea, Japan and Australia for
2022.  The English bid and the way FIFA decides where the World
Cup is going was criticized by the British press. Some FIFA
members blamed England’s defeat on the U.K. media.  The award of the world’s most watched sporting event was
marred by FIFA’s suspension of two executive members last month
after the Sunday Times published a story alleging Nigerian Amos
Adamu and Tahiti’s Reynald Temarii had offered to sell their
votes. Earlier this week, the British Broadcasting Corp. made
more corruption allegations against voters.  Let Down  Anson said he felt let down after voters who told him they
would support England and chose a rival. He said he didn’t
believe their complaints about the English media was the reason
behind the defeat.  “England, the U.S., Australia were clearly accountable to
(the media),” Anson said. “We have to do things in straight,
ethical way. The three bids will leave with their heads held
high.”  Anson feels the vote should be “more transparent and
inclusive.” He said FIFA should broaden the vote to all of its
members.  “You have to open it up to all member associations and
have transparency and open voting so everyone knows who voted
for whom,” he said. “With 22 guys having so much power it
becomes very, very difficult.”  FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said before the vote that it
was a mistake to hold ballots on two different World Cups on the
same date.  Review  “I am sure FIFA is going to evaluate this process,” U.S.
bid President  Sunil Gulati  said. “The president has said in
retrospect that they shouldn’t have done two at the same time
and given some of the other things that have happened along the
way, I am sure they are going to review.”  Marios Lefkaritis , a voter from Cyprus, said the sport’s
governing body may consider changing the way votes are held.  “If it needs changing, we have to sit down, discuss the
advantages and disadvantages of the present system,”
Lefkaritis, who didn’t disclose which countries he voted for,
said in an interview. “I’m not in favor of one thing or other
without looking closely at the systems. We are talking about
whether it will be just the Exco (executive committee) or a
referendum of all the members of FIFA.”  Australia polled the lowest in its competition, securing
just one vote. Anson said Russia and Qatar were “formidable
competitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  