-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Gold Shares Advance on Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2010-12-06T21:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/fairfax-financial-hudbay-minerals-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks  rose for a sixth day
as commodity producers gained after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Fed may increase its asset-
purchasing program.  Silver reseller Silver Wheaton Corp. advanced 4.8 percent
as gold and silver climbed for a sixth day. Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd., the country’s second-biggest energy company by
market value, rallied 2.6 percent after an analyst at Stifel
Financial Corp. raised his  rating  on the shares. Royal Bank of
Canada, the country’s largest lender by assets, lost 1.2 percent
after at least seven analysts cut their share-price estimates on
the company.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 97.06
points, or 0.7 percent, to 13,276.01. The index’s six-day streak
of advances is the longest in three months. Bernanke said the
Fed may expand bond purchases beyond the $600 billion announced
last month to spur growth, in what would be a third stage of a
policy known as quantitative easing.  “There’s more and more inflows into commodities, and at
the same time, it’s pushing commodity stocks higher,” said
 Stephen Gauthier , who helps manage C$500 million ($496 million)
at Fin-XO Securities in Montreal. “We heard about QE3 on the
weekend. If jobs are not created fast enough, they’ll have to
invent new things. Liquidities will be thrown into the markets,
and that will help gold.”  The index gained 2.2 percent last week, the most in three
months, as a weaker U.S. dollar propelled the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity Price Index to its  biggest
weekly gain  since October 2009. Energy and raw-materials
companies make up 49 percent of Canadian stocks by market value.  Long Recovery  Gold increased 0.7 percent to a record and silver jumped
1.6 percent today, a day after Bernanke told the U.S. TV program
“60 Minutes” that it may take four or five years for the
country to return to an unemployment rate of 5 percent or 6
percent. The U.S.  jobless rate  climbed to 9.8 percent last month
from 9.6 percent in October, the Labor Department said Dec. 3 in
Washington.  An  index  of S&P/TSX raw-materials companies roses for a
fifth day, extending a record.  Silver Wheaton gained 4.8 percent to C$41.27. Barrick Gold
Corp., the world’s largest gold producer, increased 1.9 percent
to C$55.25. NovaGold Resources Inc., which is developing gold
and base-metals projects in Alaska and British Columbia, rose
8.7 percent to C$16.30.  Canaco Resources Inc., which explores for gold in Africa,
surged 12 percent to C$5.27 after announcing what it called
“spectacular new drill results” from a project in
Tanzania. Shares of the Vancouver-based company have soared
nearly 11-fold over the past eight months.  Coal Miners  Teck Resources Ltd., Canada’s largest base-metals and coal
producer, climbed 3.4 percent to C$56.72. SouthGobi Resources
Ltd., which mines coal in Mongolia, jumped 15 percent to C$13.94
after signing its largest sales contract in company history.  Rare Element Resources Ltd., which is developing a rare-
earths project in Wyoming, soared 14 percent to C$11.20 after
Nikkei English News reported Sumitomo Corp. may buy a stake in
rare-earths producer Molycorp Inc.  Canadian Natural increased 2.6 percent to C$42.95 after
 Amir Arif , an analyst at Stifel, boosted his rating on the
shares to “buy” from “hold.” In a note to clients, Arif
cited the company’s fiscal discipline and potential benefits
from higher oil prices.  ‘Perplexing’  Corridor Resources Inc., which explores for oil and gas in
Eastern Canada, plunged 33 percent, the most in nine years, to
C$5.19 after reporting two shale-gas wells found no gas and
“negligible” gas, respectively. The company called the results
“unexpected and perplexing.”  Rodinia Oil Corp., which looks for oil and gas in
Australia, surged 23 percent to C$2 after receiving an
“outperform” rating in new coverage from  Nathan Piper , an
analyst at Royal Bank. The shares have doubled since the
company’s May initial public offering.  The  S&P/TSX Banks Index  retreated for a third day after
Royal Bank and Toronto-Dominion Bank reported fourth-quarter
earnings that missed their average analyst estimates last week.  Royal Bank decreased 1.2 percent to C$52.62. TD, Canada’s
second-largest lender by assets, fell 1.9 percent to C$70.86.
Bank of Nova Scotia, the No. 3 bank, gained 0.9 percent to
C$56.12 after  Sumit Malhotra , an analyst at Macquarie Group
Ltd., raised his rating on the stock to “outperform” from
“neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story;
 Matt Walcoff  in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  