-- Fast Retailing Shares Slump Most in 7 Weeks After Uniqlo Sales Decline
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2010-12-03T06:31:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/fast-retailing-falls-most-in-seven-weeks-in-tokyo-after-uniqlo-sales-drop.html
Fast Retailing Co. , operator of
Asia’s biggest clothing chain, fell 3 percent in Tokyo trading
after  sales  at its Uniqlo stores in Japan slid for the fourth
straight month.  The stock fell 400 yen to 12,990, the lowest since Nov. 17,
at the 3 p.m. close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The benchmark
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average  rose 0.1 percent.  November  sales  at domestic stores open at least a year
plunged 14.5 percent from a year earlier, the Yamaguchi City,
Japan-based company said yesterday after the market close.  “It was a negative surprise,” said  Masamitsu Ohki , a
Tokyo-based fund manager at Stats Investment Management Co.,
which owns shares of Fast Retailing. “Volatility in domestic
sales at Uniqlo is too big, deterring investors.”  Fast Retailing , which has  lost  26 percent of its market
value this year,  forecast  that full-year  net income  will fall
for the first time in four years as it offers more discounts
amid increasing competition. Demand during November fell even
after  record  one-day sales of 10.2 billion yen ($122 million) on
Nov. 20, the start of a four-day promotion campaign.  The chain reduced the price of its Heattech turtleneck by
34 percent to 990 yen and that of the  Ultra Light Down  jacket by
33 percent to 3,990 yen during the campaign. Uniqlo’s domestic
same-store sales may fall 4.7 percent in the fiscal year ending
in August, the company said in October.  Sales last month were “almost in line with our
projections,” Daisuke Hase, a spokesman for the company, said
yesterday. “We don’t think it was a bad number since we had
very good sales a year earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
 Shunichi Ozasa  in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net  