-- Wrightson's Crandall Says Federal Reserve Purchases May Set Bad Precedent
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2010-12-03T15:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/fed-purchases-do-little-may-set-bad-precedent-wrightson-s-crandall-says.html
Federal Reserve asset purchases won’t
do much to help the economy now and may set a bad precedent for
later actions,  Wrightson ICAP LLC  chief economist  Lou Crandall 
said today.  “This is really a marginal effort in terms of its
contribution right now,” Crandall said of the Fed’s strategy,
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “They’re embracing a principle that I think has the
potential to be abused in the future.”  Crandall is No. 1 among economic forecasters for the two-
year period ended on Sept. 30, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. He ranks second for his projections of movements in
the consumer price index and fourth in predicting  sales of
existing homes .  The Fed last month announced plans to buy $600 billion in
assets through June, in an effort to boost the economy. Crandall
said this campaign may not be as effective as a 2009 buying
program that had “an immediate and obvious payoff” in stemming
the financial crisis.  “It’s not clear right now that marginal long-term rates
are going to make a significant difference in the recovery,”
Crandall said. He said Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may use a
Dec. 5 appearance on CBS Television Network’s “60 Minutes”
news show to try to counter some of the arguments against the
asset-buying strategy.  “If they can tamp down some of the opposition, they’re
going to do more,” Crandall said.  Crandall said he’s not worried that accommodative monetary
policy will lead to inflation next year. He said “unused
resources in the economy trump” any price pressures in terms of
the short-run outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  