-- Fed Loans Hatched in Bathroom Halted Money-Market Run
-- B y   B o b   I v r y ,   C h r i s t i n e   R i c h a r d   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2010-12-03T15:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/fed-created-conflicts-in-improvising-3-3-trillion-financial-system-rescue.html
Deborah A. Cunningham , the manager of
$261 billion at  Federated Investors Inc. , was squeezed into the
bathroom of her family’s recreational vehicle, trying to help
save the $3.6 trillion money market industry.  Cunningham was on the phone with Federal Reserve officials
in Boston, New York and Washington. Outside, in the Pennsylvania
State University stadium parking lot in State College, football
fans were preparing for a  game  against Temple University.  “It was the only place I could hear,” Cunningham said.
“People were drinking beer. They kept knocking on the door,
saying, ‘I have to go.’”  The solution Cunningham helped craft on Sept. 20, 2008, was
a bailout for money market funds, which were created as safe
investments that could be easily cashed out. The Fed put the
facility into effect two days later. At its peak in October
2008, it provided $152 billion to stem a customer run sparked by
the Sept. 15 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  This week’s disclosures of data from the Fed’s rescue
efforts during the 2007-2008 financial crisis show how the
central bank employed companies to help design or run programs
they could use to their benefit. Federated tapped the money-
market rescue for $8.89 billion, according to Fed data. Pacific
Investment Management Co. and  BlackRock Inc.  weren’t only
advisers to the Fed, they were also trading securities they
helped value, the Fed data show.  No Choice  “That’s the way the system works,” said  David Castillo ,
senior managing director at Further Lane Securities in San
Francisco. “It’s problematic that they’re customers, but that
shouldn’t limit their ability to participate in this process.
Quite frankly, we don’t have a choice. They have the
expertise.”  In compliance with the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law,
the Fed on Dec. 1 identified the institutions that used $3.3
trillion of improvised  rescue  programs. The 21,000 transactions
in 11 initiatives included the money-market plan Cunningham
helped devise, known as the  AMLF , short for its 10-word formal
name, the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Money Market Mutual Fund
Liquidity Facility.  In its scramble to keep the economy from collapsing, the
Fed also created the  Commercial Paper Funding Facility , or CPFF,
which tried to ensure that banks and industrial companies had
the short-term loans they needed to fund everyday operations.
General Electric Co., then the biggest issuer of commercial
paper, met with Treasury and Fed officials in the days before
they created the CPFF.  ‘Unintended Consequences’  Later, the Fed set up the  Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan
Facility , or TALF, to keep consumer credit flowing. It hired
Pimco, manager of the world’s largest bond fund, and BlackRock,
the world’s biggest money manager, to provide analytical help,
according to a November 2010  report  by the Fed’s Office of
Inspector General.  “Any situation where the potential exists for a conflict
of interest is concerning,” said  Kurt Bardella , spokesman for
Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who will
become chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee next month. “This really brings into focus one of the
unintended consequences of institutionalizing the federal
government picking winners and losers while those entities are
partaking directly and indirectly in what should be exclusive
government functions.”  Breaking the Buck  Cunningham was making calls from her camper’s restroom
after the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy filing panicked investors,
who pulled $230 billion from money-market accounts. The $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund, which held $785 million of loans
to Lehman Brothers, became the biggest money-market fund and the
first in 14 years to “break the buck,” meaning the value of a
share fell below $1 and investors faced losses.  Money funds were the main buyers of commercial paper.
During the panic, they had to sell off assets to pay investors
who demanded their money back. That meant they couldn’t buy the
commercial paper that corporations needed to pay for things such
as payroll and utility bills. In less than a day, the credit
crunch had spread to industrial companies.  By Wednesday, Sept. 17, officials at the Fed and the
Treasury Department were focused on finding a solution for money
funds, says  Phill Swagel , who was assistant Treasury secretary
for economic policy.  Swagel testified to Congress that morning on the
deteriorating housing market and returned to the Treasury
building around midday, he said. After eating a tuna sandwich,
he was on conference calls with Fed officials the rest of the
afternoon and late into the night.  ‘Not Normal Policy’  Two days later, on Sept. 19, the Treasury  announced  that
for a fee it would insure money market funds against investor
losses.  “It’s not normal policy to say this asset class is now
guaranteed,” said Swagel, a professor at Georgetown
University’s McDonough School of Business in Washington, in an
interview. “When there’s a run on money market mutual funds,
there’s no time to do anything else but say they’re all
guaranteed, we’re done.”  While the Treasury measure slowed the pace of withdrawals,
it didn’t help money-market funds turn assets into cash fast
enough to pay investors who wanted out. Putnam Investments LLC
closed its $12.3 billion Putnam Prime Money Market Fund on Sept.
17 after investors asked for about a third of the fund’s money.
Managers of the Boston-based firm faced the prospect of selling
assets in a distressed market, which would cause the fund to
break the buck.  Federated’s Fund Takeover  Cunningham’s  Federated , based in Pittsburgh, was prepared
to take over the assets of the Putnam fund, issuing investors
shares in its $22.1 billion Prime Obligations Fund, she said. To
make the takeover work, Federated needed to pay off all the
Putnam investors who’d demanded their money, she said. For that,
she turned to the Fed.  “We had been working with them trying to figure out what
might work to add liquidity to the marketplace,” Cunningham
said in an interview.  The AMLF, the bailout that Cunningham helped design,
provided cash for banks to buy asset-backed commercial paper
from money market funds. This made it possible for the funds to
avoid selling at a discount, and the Fed agreed to take the risk
of defaults, guaranteeing a profit for the banks when the loans
were repaid.  ‘Single Most Successful’  Without the program, it would have been “very difficult”
for Federated to absorb the $12.3 billion in assets of the
Putnam fund on Sept. 24, 2008, according to spokeswoman  Meghan McAndrew . About half the investors redeemed their shares within
a week, she said. That meant the deal brought Federated, the
third-biggest U.S. money market company, about $6 billion in
assets at no cost.  Federated’s  Prime Obligations Fund  now holds $47 billion of
assets, more than double the amount before the transaction. In a
deal announced July 16, Federated will pay as much as $38.8
million over five years to acquire $17 billion in money fund
assets from SunTrust Banks Inc.  “Even if the entire Putnam fund redeemed, we were still
confident with this facility behind us that there was liquidity
in the marketplace and the ability to withstand that,”
Cunningham said. “Putnam investors were immensely aided by this
program. It didn’t really help Federated except for some
positive press.”  All AMLF loans have been repaid, and the facility generated
$543 million in interest, according to a Fed report.  Commercial Paper  “The AMLF was the single most successful government
intervention during the financial crisis,” said  Peter Crane ,
president of Crane Data LLC, a money-fund research firm in
Westborough, Massachusetts, in an interview. “In a crisis when
you have esoteric corners of the market involved, you have no
choice but to go to the experts, and the experts will be self-
interested players.”  While the AMLF helped stabilize money funds, they didn’t
start buying commercial paper again. That left issuers without
their biggest group of customers and unable to roll over short-
term debt as it matured. At 5:45 p.m. on Monday, Sept. 15, GE
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey R. Immelt  met for half an hour
with Treasury Secretary  Henry M. Paulson Jr.  in the secretary’s
office, according to Paulson’s schedule.  An hour and 15 minutes later, Federal Reserve Bank of New
York President  Timothy F. Geithner  convened a staff meeting to
focus on “GE issues,” according to his schedule. He and
Paulson conferred by phone afterward.  On Oct. 1, Geithner’s schedule noted a tentative conference
call with Immelt, who was a board member of the New York Fed, a
position he still has today. GE spokesman  Gary Sheffer  said the
company doesn’t see a conflict with Immelt’s membership on the
New York Fed’s board. He declined to comment on the content of
Immelt’s conversations.  Reviving Securitization  Less than a month later, the Fed created a bailout of the
commercial paper market. A special entity called CPFF LLC,
funded by the Fed, bought commercial paper from companies. They
included GE, which tapped the facility 12 times for $16.1
billion, the Fed disclosed this week.  Assistance to companies, which also included  Toyota Motor
Corp.  ($4.6 billion),  Harley-Davidson Inc.  ($2.3 billion) and
 Verizon Communications Inc.  ($1.5 billion), topped out at $348.2
billion on Jan. 21, 2009, according to the Fed. The program had
no defaults and gained $6.1 billion in interest and fees, the
central bank’s Inspector General said in its report.  Creation of TALF  In November 2008, the Fed set out to revive the market for
bonds backed by consumer and small business loans. That market
froze as an unprecedented number of defaults made assets backed
by mortgages impossible to value. Wall Street had fueled lending
by bundling mortgages into bonds using an innovation known as
securitization.  “We were pretty confident that banks didn’t have the
capacity to essentially replace the capacity that was lost in
the securitization market,” said  William C. Dudley , who headed
the New York Fed’s Markets Group at the time and is now the
bank’s president, in an interview. “We thought the best way
forward would be to try and restart the securitization market,
rather than just sit back and rely on the banking sector.”  On Nov. 25, 2008, the Fed created the Term Asset-Backed
Securities Loan Facility, or TALF, which allowed investors to
borrow from the Fed as much as 95 cents of every dollar invested
in Fed-approved asset-backed securities. Investors also retained
the option of turning the securities over to the Fed if they
fell in value.  Pimco, BlackRock  The New York Fed hired Pimco, based in Newport Beach,
California, to value collateral, monitor the credit risk of TALF
participants and assess the securities market, according to the
Inspector General’s  report . BlackRock Solutions, a unit of New
York-based  BlackRock , said it was brought on to supply
analytical help on the securities.  Without singling out any contractors, the Inspector
General’s office said that farming out certain tasks creates the
potential for conflicts of interest.  “If you knew the inner workings of the third-party
reviewer, you’re mitigating an incredible risk,” said  James Harrington , who oversaw TALF investing at his former employer,
Ryan Labs Asset Management in New York. Investors were required
to buy securities without knowing whether the Fed would accept
them for the program. The value of bonds rejected by the Fed
would often fall. “If you knew that what you were submitting had
a better chance of getting accepted, you’d know where the
boundaries of the playground were,” Harrington said.  Ford Deal  Pimco and BlackRock also participated in TALF as borrowers
on behalf of clients, along with other financial companies.
Pimco tapped  TALF  96 times between April 2009 and March 2010 for
a total of $7.26 billion, according to Fed data. Ten funds
connected to BlackRock Financial Management Inc., another unit
of BlackRock, borrowed a total of $2.8 billion for clients, the
Fed disclosed.  On the first day of the program, Pimco put up $22 million
and borrowed $292 million from the Fed to buy $314 million of
bonds backed by Ford Motor Co. auto loans. The fund borrowed
from the Fed at the London interbank offered rate plus 100 basis
points, or 1 percentage point, and purchased securities yielding
Libor plus 250 basis points, or 2.5 percentage points. The
return was about 23 percent a year for investing in securities
with the highest credit ratings and a Federal Reserve backstop.  The Pimco advisory team serving as a TALF collateral
monitor for the New York Fed is subject to “strict physical,
ethical and technological walls” and has no involvement in any
investment strategies or decisions, said  Mark Porterfield , a
Pimco spokesman.  ‘We Have Concerns’  BlackRock also participated in the initial Ford deal,
purchasing $275 million of the same securities as Pimco, using
$256 million borrowed through TALF, according to the Fed. Since
February, when BlackRock Solutions was hired, BlackRock
Financial Management borrowed $248 million to invest in a total
of 13 commercial mortgage-backed securities deals.  There was no impropriety in BlackRock’s actions, said
 Bobbie Collins , a BlackRock spokeswoman. BlackRock Solutions was
a collateral monitor providing analytical services for TALF,
while BlackRock Financial Management tapped the program on
behalf of clients, she said. The two units are separate
businesses with strict information barriers in place, she said.  Firms helping to price hard-to-sell assets could overvalue
them to raise the value of their own assets or those of their
clients, said Michael Smallberg, an investigator with the
 Project on Government Oversight , an independent Washington
watchdog group.  “We never found anyone maliciously trying to take
advantage of taxpayers,” Smallberg said. “But we have concerns
about how well those firewalls work.”  Conflict Review  The New York Fed “has carefully managed potential
conflicts of interest” in TALF, including separating workers,
approving staff, restricting personal investments and conducting
on-site audits of the controls, said  Deborah Kilroe , a bank
spokeswoman.  The Inspector General’s report, five months after TALF
closed to new investment, said “a third-party vendor” under
contract with the New York Fed’s legal group was “performing a
conflict-of-interest review and testing compliance with contract
provisions.”  Neither Pimco nor BlackRock has been accused of wrongdoing.
The firms didn’t establish policies or approve or reject
collateral,  according to the Fed .  “It seems clear that the biggest beneficiaries were the
insiders,” said  Dean Baker , co-director of the Center for
Economic and Policy Research in Washington. “We have a huge
pinata here. The question is whether we had insiders deciding
who would get the candy or was everyone in the same boat? Think
of the people who get upset about the government giving a
homeowner some help. Now multiply the sums by about 100 million.
We should care.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bob Ivry  in New York at   bivry@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Richard  in New York at 
 crichard5@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 