-- Fed Won’t Raise for Years, Gross Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2010-12-03T15:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/federal-reserve-unlikely-to-increase-rates-for-several-years-gross-says.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
largest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
Federal Reserve is unlikely to raise interest rates for several
years with employment growing less than forecast.  “The front part of the  curve  is the safe part of the
curve” with policy makers forced to keep their target rate near
zero to sustain growth, Gross, said today in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . The difference
between 2- and 10-year notes is known as the yield curve.  Employers added fewer jobs than forecast in November and
the unemployment rate unexpectedly climbed. Payrolls increased
39,000, less than the most pessimistic projection of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, after a revised 172,000 increase the
prior month, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The jobless rate rose to 9.8 percent, the highest
since April, while hours worked and earnings stagnated.  “The U.S. is being out-trained, out-educated and out-
maneuvered in the global competition for employment,” Gross
said. “There are seven applicants for every one job that’s
available and today’s report only reemphasizes that.”  Pimco has championed the idea of the new normal, in which
investors will receive lower-than-historically average returns
as global growth slows and the influence of the U.S. is
diminished.  Fed Funds Rate  Yields on two-year  notes  fell six basis points to 0.48
percent at 10:09 a.m. in New York, while 10-year  note  yields
were little changed at 2.98 percent.  The Fed has kept its  target rate  for overnight loans
between banks at a record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  Pimco began offering equity funds in April to allow
customers to diversify holdings as the global economy changes
and areas such as emerging markets outperform developed regions.
To maximize returns, Gross recommends expanding internationally.  “You’ve got to get outside of the U.S. in order to do
that,” Gross said. “That means real interest rates in Brazil,
which is 5 and 6 percent. That’s how you earn a real attractive
return as opposed to be forced to earn negative real interest
rates through the savings in the United States.”  The Washington-based International Monetary Fund said on
Oct. 6 that developing nations will grow 6.4 percent next year,
almost three times the pace projected for industrialized
economies including Europe and the U.S.  ‘Mom and Pop’  “Ultimately, the low interest rate and the negative real
interest rate is a serious detriment to savings,” Gross said.
“During periods of time like this in which governments are
forced to move to extraordinary measures, it’s the saver that
basically fronts a lot of the costs. That’s just not mom and
pop. It’s the Pimcos of the world that invest a lot in bonds. We
are earning a lot less than we used to.”  Gross said in his November investment outlook that a
renewal of asset purchases by the Fed will likely signify the
end of the 30-year  bull market  in bonds. Gross published the
comments before the $600 billion in asset purchases were
announced by the central bank Nov. 3.  The $250.2 billion  Total Return Fund , also the world’s
biggest mutual fund, handed investors a gain of about 8.1
percent in the past year, beating about 70 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Old Normal’  Overall payrolls were forecast to climb by 150,000,
according to the survey median, with estimates ranging from
75,000 to 200,000. The October figure was revised up from an
initially reported gain of 151,000.  The U.S. economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
third-quarter, a Commerce Department report showed Nov. 23. It
emerged from a  recession  after having four consecutive quarters
of negative growth beginning in third quarter 2008.  “The old normal was to 6 to 7 percent,” Gross said. “The
new normal is a 3 percent plus or minus nominal GDP. It speaks
to 2 percent growth and 1 percent inflation. We are running at a
half size paper airplane type of economy as opposed to one with
stable wings and full thrusting jet engines.”  The Total Return Fund, also managed by Gross held 12
percent of its assets in emerging market debt in September and
October, the highest since at least September 2006. The fund’s
investment in government-related securities was lowered in
October to 28 percent, from 33 percent the previous month,
according to data published Nov. 16 on Pimco’s  website .  Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in its
portfolio holdings. Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer
Allianz SE, managed $1.236 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  