-- First Republic Executives May Gain $104 Million in IPO
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2010-12-03T21:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/first-republic-executives-may-get-104-million-paper-profit-on-ipo-options.html
Two executives at First Republic
Bank, the former  Bank of America Corp.  unit going public later
this month, could reap combined paper profits of $104 million
from the  initial stock offering .  Chief Executive Officer  James Herbert , 66, and Chief
Operating Officer  Katherine August-deWilde , 62, each received
4.9 million stock options pegged at $15 a share in July, $10.50
below the $25.50 estimated price in documents for the initial
public offering. The grants include options that vest over four
years, with some tied to continued employment and some to
performance, according to the San Francisco-based bank.  The payments were outlined by First Republic for an IPO
that may raise $280.5 million. Proceeds for the bank will be
$92.4 million; the rest will go to fees, expenses and backers
that include private-equity firms General Atlantic LLC and
Colony Capital LLC. The deal would value the entire company at
$3.27 billion, six months after Bank of America  sold the firm  to
the current owners for $1.86 billion.  “When you get guarantees just for sticking around, you go
back to the same old days of pay plans that caused so much
outrage,” said  Frank Glassner , chief executive officer of
Veritas Executive Compensation Consultants LLC in San Francisco.
“These types of guarantees trigger what is widely considered
poor compensation practices.”  Greg Berardi, a spokesman for First Republic, declined to
comment while the IPO is pending.  Performance Target  The two  executives  could gain $51.8 million each from
exercising stock options if Colony Capital and other investors
achieve specified returns on their initial stakes by June 2012
and June 2013, according to the offering.  Herbert founded First Republic in February 1985 and was
joined in July that year by August-deWilde, according to the
company. Herbert had been CEO of San Francisco Bancorp, a
publicly traded lender he co-founded in 1980, while August-
deWilde had been chief financial officer at  PMI Group Inc. , the
mortgage insurer.  First Republic was sold to Merrill Lynch & Co. in September
2007 for $1.8 billion, then became part of Bank of America two
years later when the Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender, the
biggest in the U.S. by assets, took over New York-based Merrill.  Herbert’s company specializes in “jumbo” mortgages for
luxury homes, as well as business lending and wealth management.
It’s been  profitable every year  and ranked 44th in the U.S. by
deposits as of Sept. 30. The firm has increased loans by an
annualized 24 percent and deposits by 22 percent since the end
of 2006, according to the offering.  Long-Term Reward  “I suspect that there’s some premium going on here simply
because of their history with the company,”  Mark Borges , a
compensation consultant with Compensia Inc. in Corte Madera,
California, said in an interview. The executives “took them
through the various ownership arrangements.”  Herbert’s total compensation in 2009 was $7.1 million,
First Republic said in its Nov. 29  prospectus . August-deWilde’s
total compensation was $5.4 million. Their ex-boss, Bank of
America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , received $6 million for 2009,
including a $5.2 million bonus, and his payment was stretched
over three years.  Moynihan was head of the consumer bank in 2009 before he
became CEO. His predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , received no
salary or incentive compensation in 2009. Bank of America and
other lenders that received U.S. bailouts faced limits on
executive compensation. The bank repaid $45 billion to the U.S.
last December.  Current Contract  This year, employment contracts for Herbert and August-
deWilde provide base salaries of $750,000 and an annual cash
bonus of 0.5 percent of pretax annual  net income .  First Republic relies on “personalized, relationship-
based” banking and said its “deep client relationships” have
been a principal reason for its success. The bank could be hurt
by the departure of Herbert or August-deWilde, or the loss of
some of its biggest customers, according to the risk factors
listed in the offering. About 1 percent of the bank’s accounts
hold 34 percent of total deposits.  The public offering may be priced as early as Dec. 6 and is
managed by Bank of America, Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Natalie Doss  in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
 David Mildenberg  in New York at
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net  or.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen@bloomberg.net  