-- First Foreign Planes Arrive in Israel to Help Put Out Fires That Killed 41
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2010-12-03T16:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/first-foreign-planes-arrive-in-israel-to-help-put-out-fires-that-killed-41.html
Aircraft from Europe arrived in
Israel today to help combat a forest fire near the port city of
Haifa that killed at least 41 people and forced 15,000 to flee
their homes.  Israel “can’t cope with a forest blaze of this type,
accompanied by such strong winds,” without international help,
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told a meeting of the Security
Cabinet today in Tel Aviv, in comments broadcast on Israel’s
Army Radio. Battling the blaze requires types of aircraft Israel
doesn’t have, said the premier, who went to Haifa after the
meeting to survey the firefighting operations.  The fire, described by officials as the worst in the
country’s history, forced Israel to call for assistance from
Europe. Eight planes and three helicopters arrived from Greece,
Bulgaria, Cyprus and the U.K., an army spokeswoman said,
speaking anonymously according to military regulation. Spain,
Turkey, Croatia, France, Russia, Azerbaijan, Egypt and Romania
have also pledged to send aircraft, Netanyahu’s office said.  “All the aid we’ve gotten from other countries is bringing
significant improvement, but at this stage we still can’t say
the fire is under control, not yet,” Israel Police Commissioner
David Cohen said in a televised press conference in Haifa.  “Israel has never faced a natural disaster of this scope,
where it had to call on outside help, and it might have some
diplomatic implications,” said  Gerald Steinberg , professor of
political science at  Bar Ilan University  outside Tel Aviv.  Turkish Help  Two Turkish firefighting planes were dispatched at the
instructions of Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , the Turkish
Foreign Ministry said today. At the Security Cabinet meeting,
Netanyahu thanked Erdogan and other leaders who offered help.  Relations between Israel and Turkey have been strained
since Israeli commandos killed nine Turks in a May 31 raid on an
aid flotilla seeking to break the blockade of the Gaza Strip.  “I hope this will be the beginning of better relations
between our two countries,” Netanyahu told reporters in Haifa,
in comments broadcast on Channel 2 television.  U.S. President  Barack Obama , at a White House ceremony
yesterday to celebrate the Hanukkah holiday, began by “offering
our deepest condolences to the families and loved ones” of the
victims of the fire and pledged to help combat it.  Prison Guards Die  Firefighters are still trying to contain the blaze. Most of
the 41 confirmed dead were killed yesterday in a bus carrying
prison guards on their way to help evacuate a prison endangered
by the flames, police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said.  Officials were unable to give an overall damage estimate
from the fire, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. Most of
the private and public property in the area is covered by
insurance, the ministry said.  The fire began around midday yesterday in the Carmel hills
south of of Haifa, a city with a population of 266,000.
Exceptionally dry weather created conditions that allowed the
flames to spread quickly, said Salman Abu Rukun, an employee of
the  Israel Nature and National Parks Protection Authority .  Two local residents were arrested today after they were
alleged to have started a fire in the area. Police are
investigating the report, and it is too early to say whether it
was a case of negligence or arson, Police Commissioner Cohen
said without specifying whether the incident is connected to the
forest fire.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
 Alisa Odenheimer  in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 