-- Florida May Cut 5% of State Jobs to Address Deficit, Governor-Elect Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 2010-12-03T16:50:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/florida-may-cut-5-of-state-jobs-to-address-deficit-governor-elect-says.html
Florida, facing a $2.5 billion budget
gap next fiscal year, may cut 5 percent of its state workforce
to save costs, Governor-elect  Rick Scott  said.  The reduction may save $300 million a year, the Republican
former health-industry executive said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With  Margaret Brennan .”  “Our government has grown too fast compared to the private
sector,” said Scott, 58. “When that happens, jobs go away, so
we have to reduce the size of government.”  Scott defeated the state’s chief financial officer,
Democrat  Alex Sink , in November elections with a plan to create
700,000 jobs, cut property taxes by 19 percent and phase out the
state’s business-income levy over seven years.  “There are a lot of efficiencies we can gain in state
government,” Scott said. “We have to go through every
department and figure out how to reduce costs.”  He said no cuts will be made in education.  Scott said he had meetings with President  Barack Obama  in
the White House recently at which he discussed options for his
state to opt out of the national health-care plan passed by
Congress.  “It is the biggest job killer ever,” Scott said. “Small-
business people are starting to understand and they can’t afford
it and they won’t hire anybody. They may hire on a part-time
basis so they don’t have to provide benefits. I am optimistic
that we will get it repealed. We can’t afford it and it will be
horrible for patients.”  Company Founder  Scott founded Columbia Healthcare Corp., a hospital chain,
in 1987. It merged with  HCA Inc.  in 1994, growing to 340
institutions and $20 billion in annual revenue.  In March 1997, the U.S. government announced an
investigation of the company’s Medicare-billing practices and
Scott left soon afterward. The company eventually paid more than
$1.7 billion related to fraud in claims for Medicare, the
government health plan for the elderly.  Scott, who spent a record $78 million on his campaign, said
today that Medicaid, the federal health plan for low-income
people whose costs are shared with states, is burdensome to
administer.  “The big thing for most of us is Medicaid,” he said.
“Let us make our own decisions. That is one of my biggest
goals. I want to get a block grant. I know we can do Medicaid
better than the federal government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Brennan in New York at  mbrennan25@bloomberg.net ;
 Jerry Hart  in Miami at 
 jhart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 