-- Florida ‘Cold Snap’ Will Boost Orange-Juice Prices: Chart of Day
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-12-03T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/florida-december-cold-snap-will-boost-orange-juice-prices-chart-of-day.html
Orange-juice futures may resume their
rally this month as frigid weather threatens groves in  Florida ,
the world’s second-biggest grower, a Bloomberg survey of
analysts showed.  The price may reach $1.646 a pound by the end of the year
on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, a gain of 5.9 percent from
yesterday’s close, according to the average of seven estimates
in the survey. The CHART OF THE DAY shows the percent change in
orange-juice futures in 2004, 2007 and 2009 during the month of
December as freezes threatened crops in Florida.  “We got our first cold snap down here,” which will lead
to the seasonal “frost premium” for prices,  Jimmy Tintle , an
analyst at Transworld Futures, said yesterday from Tampa,
Florida. Tintle correctly predicted in January that this year’s
orange crop would be smaller than the government forecast.  Orange-juice futures plunged 5.4 percent in November as the
six-month  Atlantic hurricane season  ended with no major crop
damage in Florida. Prices rose 4.2 percent in the past two days
and are up 20 percent this year. The commodity touched a three-
year high of $1.657 on Sept. 22, partly on concern that a
drought damaged crops in Brazil, the top grower.  “Next week, the cold is expected to penetrate further
south across the Florida peninsula, increasing freeze threats
for oranges, especially next Wednesday and Thursday,” Kyle
Tapley, a meteorologist at MDA Information Systems Inc. in
Rockville, Maryland, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Last year, orange juice advanced 8.2 percent in December
and 5.5 percent in January as freezing temperatures damaged
fruit. Output dropped to 133.6 million boxes of oranges, the
second-smallest in two decades.  In October, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimated
domestic orange output will total 146 million boxes, 9.3 percent
larger than last year. The harvest will be complete in July. A
box weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Leslie Patton  in  Chicago  at 
 Lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 