-- Former Labour Lawmaker Chaytor Pleads Guilty to Parliament Expenses Fraud
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2010-12-03T16:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/former-labour-lawmaker-chaytor-pleads-guilty-to-expenses-fraud.html
Former Labour party lawmaker  David Chaytor  pleaded guilty to fraudulent expenses while serving in
the U.K. Parliament, becoming the first politician to be
convicted in the 18 month-old scandal over reimbursements.  Chaytor, 61, admitted guilt at a hearing at the Old Bailey
Criminal Court in London today, and will be sentenced Jan. 7, a
court official said. He previously denied the charges and his
trial had been scheduled for later this month.  Chaytor was charged with three counts of false accounting
according to the indictment. He was accused of improperly
claiming: 1,950 pounds ($3,060) for information-technology
services in May 2006 using false invoices; 12,925 pounds for
renting a property he owned in London between September 2005 and
September 2006; and 5,425 pounds purportedly for renting a
property from his mother.  “David Chaytor has today admitted his dishonesty and he
will now face the consequences,” Simon Clements, the head of
the Crown Prosecution Service Special Crime Division, said in an
e-mailed statement. “No one, no matter their position, should
be allowed to take money that they know they have no right to.”  A series of stories about lawmaker expenses started
appearing in the Daily Telegraph newspaper last year, after it
bought a computer disc containing details of the claims. The
stories revealed lawmakers made expense claims for items ranging
from a floating house for ducks to the cost of clearing a moat.
Many lawmakers caught up in the scandal didn’t seek re-election
this year.  Three other lawmakers face trial over their expenses in the
next few weeks.  Gerald Shamash , a lawyer for Chaytor, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 