-- Peripheral Debt Rises on Speculation Central Bank May Buy Region's Bonds
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-12-03T17:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/german-bunds-fall-on-speculation-central-bank-may-buy-irish-greek-bonds.html
Irish and Portuguese bonds rose,
narrowing the yield difference with benchmark German bunds, amid
speculation the European Central Bank bought more assets of
high-deficit nations to stem the debt crisis.  Irish 10-year bonds had their biggest weekly advance since
May 14, when the European Union and International Monetary Fund
announced a backstop for ailing nations. The ECB purchased Irish
and Portuguese bonds today, according to at least four traders
with knowledge of the transactions. Growth in the region’s
services and manufacturing industries accelerated more than
initially estimated in November, curbing demand for bunds.  “We’ve seen quite a sharp tightening of spreads in the
past two days on increased ECB buying,” said  Vincent Chaigneau ,
head of rate strategy at Societe Generale SA in London.
“Investors are concerned the buying will continue in the near
term. No-one seems willing to fight this.”  The yield on the 10-year Irish bond fell for a fourth
straight day, dropping 38 basis points to 8.37 percent as of
5:13 p.m. in London. The 5 percent security maturing in October
2020 gained 2.09, or 20.90 euros per 1,000 ($1,337) face amount,
to 77.93. The yield fell 97 basis points this week, narrowing
the premium investors demand to hold the debt instead of bunds
to 534 basis points from 646 basis points a week ago.  The yield on the German bund, Europe’s benchmark, rose five
basis points to 2.86, after reaching 2.89 percent, the highest
since May 18.  Increase Purchases  Bonds from so-called peripheral nations rallied this week
as traders said that the ECB increased purchases of their
government debt. The central bank bought Portuguese debt as well
as Irish bonds today, said two people with knowledge of the
deals who declined to be identified because the transactions are
confidential.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday policy
makers extended stimulus measures to stem Europe’s “acute”
market tensions. The central bank will maintain its bond-buying
program and continue to sterilize asset purchases, he said. The
ECB will offer banks unlimited loans through the first quarter,
Trichet said.  The ECB may increase purchases of government bonds to
ensure the sovereign debt crisis abates, according to  Dirk Schumacher , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
Frankfurt.  “We remain convinced that the political will among policy
makers, including the ECB, to prevent any systemic event is
unquestionable,” he wrote in a research report dated yesterday.
“We could easily see the ECB stepping up its bond purchases
aggressively if things do not start to normalize.”  Narrowed Yields  Portuguese government bond yields dropped 23 basis points
to 6.08 percent, after the spread with bunds narrowed to less
than 3 percentage points, or 300 basis points, for the first
time since Aug. 24.  The ECB bond purchases won’t resolve the euro area’s debt
woes and investors should step up sales of high-deficit nations’
securities, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said.  “We do not think the non-core problems are over just
because the buying program is stepped up,”  Andrew Roberts , head
of European interest-rate strategy in London, wrote in a note to
investors today. “They are very much alive and this is just a
temporary fix. Look for levels to add to peripheral shorts
outside of Greece and Ireland, these pullbacks are still light
in the big scheme of the prior widening.”  Greek 10-year bonds fell, sending the yield up 16 basis
points to 12 percent. Standard & Poor’s placed the nation’s BB+
long-term sovereign rating on “CreditWatch” with a negative
outlook. S&P said it’s assessing the implications of the so-
called European Stability Mechanism that may govern EU sovereign
bonds beginning in July 2013.  Greek Risk  Greece’s Minister of State  Haris Pamboukis  said the country
was “surprised” by the decision.  Greece risks having to restructure its debt even with an
extension in terms of the loan repayments by the EU, according
to  John Stopford , the London-based head of fixed income at
Investec Asset Management, who helps oversee $65 billion for
clients.  “You would be wrong to rule out the possibility of a debt
restructuring at some point,” Stopford said. “Greece has a
structural problem, and there has got to be risk we have another
recession or economic crisis.”  Stimulus Withdrawal  Austria said it plans to reduce bond sales by as much as 27
percent next year as the nation withdraws emergency stimulus
spending, banks begin to repay state aid and less debt comes due
to be rolled over.  The Austrian Federal Financing Agency will issue 16 billion
euros to 19 billion-euros worth of bonds in 2011, down from 22
billion euros this year, slides shown to primary dealers late
yesterday say. Including instruments such as treasury bills,
private placements and loans, issuance will be 22 billion to 25
billion euros, compared with 27 billion euros this year.  The 10-year Austrian yield rose four basis points to 3.3
percent.  Spanish yields dropped four basis point to 5.08 percent.
Italian yields increased four basis points to 4.45 percent.  Markit Economics’s composite index based on a survey of
euro-area purchasing managers in services and manufacturing rose
to 55.5 last month from 53.8 in October, damping demand for the
safety of fixed-income assets. Retail sales rose 0.5 percent in
October, the EU statistics office said separately.  ‘Give Margin Back’  LCH Clearnet Ltd. will reduce the extra margin it charges
for Irish bond trading as yields fall, using the same criteria
it applied when they rose, its head of fixed income said.  “Our tendency is to give margin back to people as soon as
we reasonably can,” London-based fixed-income director  John Burke  said in a telephone interview yesterday. “On the way up,
it was the fact that levels were sustained that we were
checking. Likewise, in the reverse, it has to be sustained when
it goes below the threshold on the way down, and it depends on
how far below it has gone and the speed at which it got there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  