-- Gold May Gain This Week on European Debt, Korean Concerns, Survey Shows
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2010-12-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/gold-may-gain-next-week-on-european-debt-korean-concerns-survey-shows.html
Gold may advance as concern about
Europe’s debt crisis and military tensions in the Korean
peninsula boost demand for a protection of wealth, a survey
found.  Eleven of 16 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 69 percent, said the metal will rise next week.
Four predicted lower prices and one was neutral. Gold futures
for February delivery were up 2.1 percent for this week at
$1,393 an ounce at 11 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in New York.
Futures reached a record $1,424.30 on Nov. 9.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday the ECB will delay withdrawing emergency liquidity
measures and keep buying bonds as the European debt crisis
creates “acute” tensions in financial markets. Gold gained the
past two weeks on concern the region’s debt woes will spread and
as North and South Korea exchanged artillery fire.  “Growing anxiety among investors and the recent uptick in
geopolitical tensions continue to draw investors toward the
traditional safe-haven assets” such as gold, said  James Moore ,
an analyst at TheBullionDesk.com in London.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of Nov. 26.  The weekly gold survey that started six years ago has
forecast prices accurately in 194 of 339 weeks, or 57 percent of
the time.  This week’s survey results:  Bullish : 11  Bearish : 4  Neutral : 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 