-- Google Said to Plan to Buy New York Headquarters Building for $1.8 Billion
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2010-12-03T20:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/google-said-to-plan-to-buy-new-york-headquarters-building-for-1-8-billion.html
Google Inc. , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, signed a contract to buy its New
York office building at 111 Eighth Ave. for about $1.8 billion,
according to a person with knowledge of the agreement.  The sale probably will close by the end of the year, said
the person, who asked not to be named because the deal hasn’t
been made public. Google, based in Mountain View, California,
will expand beyond the 550,000 square feet (51,000 square
meters) it currently occupies in the building, the person said.  Aaron Zamost , a spokesman for Google, declined to comment.  The sale is the biggest transaction for a single building
in the U.S. this year, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc.,
a New York-based real estate research firm. The deal signals
strong demand for Manhattan property as the market recovers,
said  Dan Fasulo , a Real Capital managing director.  “You can’t get a stronger vote of confidence for the
strength of the New York office market,” Fasulo said. “When
one of the most prestigious modern corporations makes a bet on
your marketplace, it’s not just a bet on your real estate, but
in New York as a place to retain and attract the best talent.”  The building at 111 Eighth takes up an entire block between
West 15th and 16th streets in the Chelsea section of  Manhattan, 
south of Midtown. The former industrial warehouse has 2.94
million square feet, according to Real Capital. At that size, it
has more floor space than the Empire State Building.  Paying More  The price comes to about $600 a square foot. That’s almost
the $636 a square foot SL Green Realty Corp. paid in May for 600
Lexington Ave., a 94-percent occupied office tower in midtown
Manhattan, the nation’s most expensive office leasing area, Real
Capital’s data show.  “They can afford to pay more for this building because
they’re already the occupant,” said  Ben Thypin , Real Capital
senior market analyst. “A third party that wasn’t already a
tenant might not have been able, actually definitely wasn’t
able, to bid as high as they were.”  The 18-story property sits near the Meatpacking District,
which has seen a surge of high-end residential, retail and hotel
development in the past decade, including an Apple Inc. store
and the Standard Hotel.  Jamestown, Taconic  The sellers are Jamestown, an Atlanta-based real estate
investment firm; Taconic Investment Partners; and the New York
State Common Retirement Fund. They were advised by  Doug Harmon ,
senior managing director of Eastdil Secured LLC.  Google was represented by attorney  Rob Sorin  of Fried Frank
Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP. Sorin declined to comment.  Messages left after business hours yesterday for Martha
Wallau, an Eastdil Secured spokeswoman, and Jessica Forman, a
spokeswoman for Taconic, weren’t returned. A call to the
Reynolds Group, an Atlanta-based public relations firm listed as
a media contact on Jamestown’s  website , also wasn’t returned.  The Wall Street Journal reported the agreement yesterday.  Jamestown, which represents German investors, bought an
interest in 111 Eighth in 2004 in a deal that valued the
building at $1.1 billion, according to Real Capital.  The property was completed in 1932 as the headquarters of
the Port of New York Authority, where it stayed until it
finished building the World Trade Center in the 1970s. The
agency is now known as the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey.  The building was originally a freight terminal serving the
authority’s Hudson River piers, according to Taconic’s  website 
for the property. Taconic acquired it in 1998 and did $68
million of capital improvements, including upgrading its
elevators and power plants.  Besides Google, tenants include  Nike Inc. , Lifetime
Networks, Knoll Inc., Barnes & Noble Inc. and Armani Exchange,
according to the property’s website.  The building has a $500 million securitized loan originated
by Greenwich Capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It was 99 percent occupied as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David M. Levitt  in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  