-- Greenspan Says ECB Has `Terrible Problem' on Deficits
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-03T13:46:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/greenspan-says-ecb-has-terrible-problem-on-deficits-update1-.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said the European Central Bank faces a “terrible
problem” because its measures to combat the debt crisis make it
easier for countries to defer cutting budget deficits.  “I think they’ve got a terrible problem,” he said in an
interview with CNBC in Washington today. “To the extent that
they increase their purchases of bonds of the various different
countries, they of necessity take the pressure off the political
system within those countries to do what has to be done.”  While the ECB yesterday delayed withdrawing emergency
liquidity measures and bought more government bonds, President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said governments should take the lead in
quelling the region’s deficit crisis. Bond yields of  Spain  and
Portugal have soared on investor concern that they may follow
Ireland and Greece and seek aid, increasing the risk that the
ECB may have to do more if politicians don’t deliver.  “I think it’s an extremely difficult problem because there
is as we now know -- as we knew right at the beginning -- there
is a fundamental flaw in any currency arrangement in which you
are pooling the cultures of various different societies,”
Greenspan said. “Implicit in this arrangement is it’s got to be
that people have got to abide by the rules.”  “If you try to get benefits from others -- beggar-thy-
neighbor as we call it -- nobody gets anything,” he said.
“It’s a sort of a prisoner’s dilemma.”  ‘Going Nowhere’  Greenspan said the U.S. economy is “going nowhere” unless
people are able to get rid of a “deep-seated fear” due to
economic uncertainty and conditions return to “normality.”  Investment in plant and machinery is a “critical measure
of how certain and uncertain people are about the future,” he
said. “People are investing far less in physical assets, i.e.
homes, and their cash flow is going to pay off debt.”  The former Fed chairman said he always looks at the U.S.
10-year note to gauge the market and that the outlook for the
stock market would be “terrific” if it wasn’t for debt
concerns and the crisis in Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  