-- Green Shoots Emerge From an Economic Train Wreck: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2010-12-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/green-shoots-emerge-from-economic-train-wreck-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Looking for a country you can invest
in that is both politically stable and likely to grow a lot
faster than the global average in the next five years?  Forget the emerging economies of  Asia  and  South America :
They score fine on the second point, but not so well on the
first. And you can rule out most of  Europe : The euro crisis will
snuff out growth for years. The U.S. won’t be much better with
its budget and trade deficits.  The country you should be looking at is the U.K.  Its economy has been a mess for the past few years. The
nation had an extravagant Labour government that was constantly
raising taxes. There was an over-reliance on financial services.
The trade and budget deficits kept getting bigger.  Now there are signs the U.K. is turning the corner.
Britain’s currency, the pound, has weakened faster than those of
most other major nations, allowing exports to become more
competitive. Its new coalition government under Prime Minister  David Cameron  is proving to be skilled at getting the  budget
deficit  under control. Except for a few rioting students, the
British are getting used to belt-tightening measures. And the
country can only benefit from the financial chaos that is
emerging in the euro area.  It wasn’t a coincidence the U.K. economy crashed so badly
in the past two years. In reality, Britain’s relative position
had been declining for years. For the second half of the last
decade, it was only a property and borrowing boom that kept the
economy growing. The U.K. was a train wreck waiting to happen.  Good Numbers  Yet this year something striking has happened. The economy
has expanded at a decent rate -- 0.8 percent in the third
quarter, and 1.2 percent in the three months before that. Some
credit should go to  Gordon Brown ’s Labour government, but
whichever way you look at it, those are good numbers for a
country hit hard by the credit crunch.  It looks set to continue. The  Office for Budget
Responsibility , the government’s fiscal watchdog, now predicts
the economy will grow 2.1 percent next year, and by 2.6 percent
in 2012. Again, those are very respectable numbers for an
economy emerging from a financial crisis.  But the interesting question is whether the U.K. can
outperform those expectations and grow much faster than most
other economies. Here are four reasons why it may well do so.  Weaker Pound  One, the pound depreciated early, slumping against the euro
as soon as the banking crisis hit. Go back to 2007 and the pound
was trading at close to 1.50 euros. By the end of 2008, it
dropped as low as 1.02 euros. It has recovered since then,
mainly because the euro is so weak. The result, as the textbooks
would say, has been that the U.K. is exporting again. September
figures showed manufacturing expanding, and the trade deficit
shrinking, as the U.K. sells more products to other countries.  It is, of course, just a start. But once a trend gets
established, it tends to acquire momentum. And, as any German
will tell you, there is no better way for an economy to dig its
way out of trouble than to export more.  Two, the budget deficit is being taken seriously for a
change. The general election this year looked messy, with no
party securing an overall majority. But the coalition put
together by Cameron is proving a lot stronger than most people
expected. It has set out a five-year program of cuts to public
spending that should bring the deficit down to manageable
levels. The coalition is finding it a lot easier to make tough
decisions than a Conservative government with a small majority
would have been able to.  Lower  Living Standards   Three, the U.K. is becoming more competitive. Average
weekly earnings are rising at an annual rate of 2.2 percent.
Inflation is running at 3.2 percent. So, in real terms, the
British are accepting a cut in living standards. That’s painful
when taxes are being raised. But there is no better way to make
your economy more competitive than to reduce wages. It means the
country becomes more attractive to global companies.  Four, the U.K. is outside the euro. Britain declined the
opportunity to sign up for the single currency when it was
introduced. As the euro lurches from crisis to crisis, that
looks like a smart call. The U.K. is contributing to the Irish
bailout but isn’t on the hook to rescue  Spain  or  Portugal  in the
way that Germany and  France  might be.  That will make Britain a great base for global investors.
Where’s that Indian or Brazilian company going to set up its
European office? In Spain, where it has no idea what the
currency will be in a decade’s time? Or Britain? It’s not really
a very tough choice.  Royal Wedding  And if that wasn’t enough, there is a royal wedding to look
forward to next spring. Last time, a young, photogenic and
stylish princess did plenty for the tourist trade. There’s no
reason to think  Kate Middleton  won’t be just as good.  Of course, there are risks. Cuts in  government spending 
still have to bite, and may send the economy back into a slump.
A struggling euro area may stop that export recovery in its
tracks. Inflation is accelerating, and it may require big
increases in  interest rates  to control it.  Nobody should start talking about an English Tiger -- or
perhaps Bulldog -- just yet. But the U.K. is growing, and doing
so without the easy stimulants of government spending and
soaring property prices. If those forces gather strength,
Britain might be one of the stars of the coming decade.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a forthcoming book on the Greek debt crisis. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  