-- Greece’s Long-Term Sovereign Credit Rating May Be Cut by S&P
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2010-12-03T00:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/greece-s-credit-rating-may-be-cut-by-s-p-as-eu-rules-threaten-bondholders.html
Greece was warned it could receive a
lower credit rating from Standard & Poor’s as proposed European
Union rules threaten to hurt bondholders.  Greece’s  ‘BB+’ long-term sovereign rating was placed on
“CreditWatch” with negative implications, Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services said in a statement today from Madrid. S&P said
it is assessing credit implications of the so-called European
Stability Mechanism that may govern European Union sovereign
bonds beginning in July 2013.  “Assigning ‘preferred creditor’ status to future official
lending via the ESM could be detrimental to the ability of non-
official holders of sovereign debt to be repaid,” S&P said.  The possible cut by S&P “is simply an indication of
tightening liquidity conditions there and growing uncertainty
about Greece and other front-line European countries’ ability to
handle their debt loads,” said  Gary Schlossberg , senior
economist at Wells Capital Management Inc. in San Francisco.  “It is also an indication of the questions that remain
about how sufficient official rescue packages will be,”
Schlossberg said. “There’s a real risk that Europe’s crisis
will get a bit worse before it gets better.”  Ireland, Portugal  S&P cut Ireland’s debt rating two steps on Nov. 23 and said
this week it placed Portugal’s long-term and short-term foreign
and local currency sovereign credit ratings on “CreditWatch”
with “negative implications,” reflecting its inability to
reduce its current-account deficit.  The EU in October agreed on the need to set up the ESM as a
permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability
of the euro area as a whole. The Eurogroup, comprising the
finance ministers of the 16 nations sharing the euro, said in a
statement on Nov. 28 that “an ESM loan will enjoy preferred
creditor status, junior only” to the loan from the
 International Monetary Fund .  Greece in May got a three-year aid package of 110 billion
euros ($145 billion) from the euro area and the IMF to prevent a
debt default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
 Vivien Lou Chen  in San Francisco at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  