-- Greece `End Game' Veers Toward Potential Debt Restructuring: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2010-12-03T16:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/greece-end-game-veers-toward-potential-debt-restructuring-euro-credit.html
Greece  risks having to restructure
its debt even with an extension in terms of the loan repayments
by the European Union as the economy remains mired in recession.  “You would be wrong to rule out the possibility of a debt
restructuring at some point,” said  John Stopford , the London-
based head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management, who
helps oversee $65 billion for clients. “Greece has a structural
problem, and there has got to be risk we have another recession
or economic crisis.”  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold 10-year Greek debt
instead of benchmark German bunds is within 100 basis points of
the record set in May when Greece was granted a three-year aid
package of 110 billion euros ($145 billion) from the European
Union and International Monetary Fund. In the Irish bailout
announced Nov. 28, Greece received preliminary approval for an
extra four-and-a-half years to pay back emergency loans. The
country’s first aid repayment is due in 2013.  Underscoring the risks to bondholders, Standard & Poor’s
said yesterday it may lower the credit rating on Greece, which
is struggling to reduce its budget deficit from 9.4 percent of
the gross domestic product. Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said a restructuring is out of the question.
The domestic economy probably will contract by 2.7 percent in
2011 and 0.1 percent in 2012, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The end game for countries like Greece and Ireland is
still going to be a very high level of debt,” Stopford said.  Peripheral Yields  Borrowing costs among the region’s most-indebted nations
climbed on Nov. 29 after Ireland followed Greece in accepting a
bailout. The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds rose 25 basis points
to 5.46 percent that day, while Italian yields jumped 22 basis
points to 4.65 percent. Yields fell today as four traders with
knowledge of the deals, who declined to be identified, said the
European Central Bank bought Irish and Portuguese bonds. One
said the central bank also bought Greek debt. The ECB declined
to comment. The Greek 10-year yield declined 18 basis points
today to 11.67 percent.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis erupted late last year after
Greece’s newly elected socialist government said the budget
deficit was twice as big as the previous administration had
disclosed. The sell-off of so-called euro peripheral bonds
accelerated in October after German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
called for bondholders to share losses with taxpayers.  Speculation that countries may stop funding future bailouts
intensified Nov. 16 when Austrian Finance Minister  Josef Proell 
said he may withhold his country’s next payment for the Greek
bailout if the government didn’t comply with financial targets.
He later said Austria “won’t block” aid, saying his government
wants “concrete figures” on Greece’s budgetary situation
before transferring funds in January.  Revenue Shortfall  Greece’s budget revenue has so far failed to meet forecasts,
with income rising 3.7 percent in the first 10 months of 2010.
Higher sales, cigarette and alcohol taxes were introduced to
boost receipts by 13.7 percent this year. That goal was trimmed
to 8.7 percent in October and to 6 percent last month.  “Any extension of a repayment period would definitely be
positive for Greece, although I still can’t rule out the
possibility of a restructuring because fiscal slippage is a real
risk,” said  Mohit Kumar , a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche
Bank AG in London. “The whole political support for Greece
depends on whether they are able to meet the consolidation
targets. A lot of things can happen in the next three years.”  ‘Debt Restructuring’  If bondholders are forced to take so-called haircuts on
their Greek investments, the earlier the details are known the
better, said Spencer Jones, a partner at  London-based Newstate
Partners LLP , a sovereign debt specialist whose clients include
Russia, Congo and Antigua. The more Greece draws from the rescue
package, the deeper the potential losses should a debt
reorganization be required, he said.  “My view is that Greece might be able to avoid a debt
restructuring, but that view clearly isn’t shared by some
investors in the market,” Jones said. “With the bailout they
got from the so-called Troika, those creditors would generally
be considered preferred creditors.”  The EU and IMF approved the aid package on May 2 in
exchange for the Greek government agreeing to cut public-sector
wages and pensions, and raise taxes after a surge in bond yields
shut them out of the capital market. The Greek government has so
far received 29 billion euros of funds.  S&P said it is assessing credit implications of the so-
called European Stability Mechanism that may govern European
Union sovereign bonds beginning in July 2013. The ratings
company said in a statement from Madrid that it put Greece’s BB+
long-term sovereign rating on “CreditWatch” with negative
implications.  French Yields  Greek bonds are the worst performers in Europe this year,
having dropped 19 percent, followed by a 15 percent decline in
Irish debt and an 8.6 percent slide for Portuguese bonds, data
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies show.  The yield difference, or  spread , between 10-year Greek
bonds and German bunds was 875 basis points today, down from a
record 973 in May.  Bailouts for Ireland and Greece and speculation that
Portugal and Spain also may require funds are prompting
investors to shun some of Europe’s highest-rated bonds. The
yield on 10-year French securities rose to as much as 3.31
percent this week, the highest in almost seven months, while the
extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Belgian bonds
instead of similar-maturity bonds climbed to the most since at
least 1993.  “What’s worrying is that it’s not clear what will turn the
sentiment around,” Investec’s Stopford said. “The market will
still be in a risk-off environment for a while.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anchalee Worrachate  in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  