-- Greenaway Multimedia Spectacle Whets Appetite for ‘Last Supper’
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2010-12-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/greenaway-multimedia-spectacle-whets-appetite-for-last-supper-.html
A few days ago, heavy machinery
clunked around in New York’s Park Avenue  Armory , a plaster
chicken leg lay on a table, Leonardo da Vinci’s masterpiece
glowed hugely, deceptively, and deafening organ music filled the
air.  An Old Master hobnobs with modern technology in
“Leonardo’s Last Supper: A Vision by  Peter Greenaway ,” the
British filmmaker’s multimedia spectacle that has its U.S. debut
today.  Greenaway’s visual dissection of the famous 15th-century
mural in Milan’s Santa Maria Delle Grazie church opens with a
rapid survey of Italian art and architecture featuring 3-D white
doves and a buff male dancer in loincloth gamboling from one to
another of the installation’s 19 screens.  Then it moves on to Christ’s iconic meal with his 12
apostles, who respond with operatic gestures to the suggestion
that a betrayer is among them.  The stunning cinematic effects enable close-ups almost
molecular of the painting’s many facets. One zoom-in on a hand
rotates to pan over the surrounding surface that suddenly
resembles a desert landscape.  Deathly Dinner  Other cinematic legerdemain traces the figures’ outlines,
like some classical Etch A Sketch. In a marvelous isolation, the
painting darkens to veil all but the diners’ hands, revealing
their myriad positions and complex roles in the table talk.  In another visual trope, the passage of the sun and time
is shone as light and shadows moving across the assemblage.  The installation is on view through Jan. 6 and includes a
29-foot-long dining table set with deathly white plates,
oranges, bread and chicken bones, all modeled after the timeless
elements in “The Last Supper.”  Click here for a video of the installation prepared by
reporter  Katya Kazakina  and video producer  David Coffin .  ( Jeffrey Burke  is an editor and writer for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 