-- Growing Bubble-Gum Demand Triggers Rally in Arcor Bonds: Argentina Credit
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2010-12-03T14:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/growing-bubble-gum-demand-triggers-rally-in-arcor-bonds-argentina-credit.html
Bonds sold by Arcor SAIC, Latin
America’s biggest candy maker, are outperforming regional peers
as Argentina’s  economy  expands the most since 2005.  Arcor bonds due in 2017 returned 1.7 percent from when they
began trading Nov. 5 through yesterday, compared with a 1.8
percent decline over the same period for Latin American consumer
products companies in Credit Suisse Group AG’s LABI index.  “Arcor is a consumer-product company and the economy is
doing well in Argentina,”  Ruth Mazzoni , a corporate bond
analyst at Standard Bank, said in a Nov. 24 telephone interview
from New York. “People are consuming, they’re buying candy.”  Argentine companies sold the most debt in global markets
this year since 2007, while President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  restructured $12.2 billion in defaulted bonds in June.
South America’s second-biggest economy will grow 9 percent this
year, according to the central bank, the most among major
emerging markets. Growth will slow to 4.8 percent in 2011,
according to the median estimate of eight economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Closely held Arcor, based in Arroyito, Cordoba province,
produces 3 million kilograms (6.6 million pounds) a day of candy
including Topline chewing gum and Rocklets chocolates,  according 
to its website. The company exports to 120 countries and has
distribution centers in Brazil, Mexico and Chile. About 40
percent of its $2.2 billion in revenue last year came from sales
outside Argentina, Pablo Marco, a spokesman, said via e-mail.  ‘Very Satisfied’  “We are very satisfied with the bond’s performance,”
Marco said, without offering further details.  Since Nov. 5, Arcor debt is the second-best performer of
five Argentine companies that have sold bonds this year, behind
power company  Empresa Distribuidora y Comercializadora Norte SA ,
which has climbed 2.9 percent over the same period. Debt with a
similar maturity sold by real-estate developer IRSA Inversiones
y Representaciones SA has risen 1.9 percent over the same
period.  “There’s a high degree of confidence, the balance sheet is
outstanding,”  Eric Ollom , chief emerging-markets strategist
with Jefferies & Co., said in a Dec. 1 phone interview from New
York. “Arcor is considered a more premium type of credit than
IRSA, Edenor and Impsa because it produces such a staple of
Argentine life, baked goods and candies.”  Yields on Argentina’s dollar bonds tumbled to their lowest
on Nov. 4 in almost three years and stocks  rallied  as investors
bet that the Oct. 27 death of former President  Nestor Kirchner ,
Fernandez’s husband, would help an opposition candidate win next
year’s presidential election.  Argentine Spread  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 5 basis points at 9:20
a.m. New York time today to 526, the highest among major
emerging markets after Venezuela and Ecuador, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 30 basis points to
670 yesterday, according to data compiled by CMA. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Warrants linked to Argentina’s economic growth climbed 0.04
cent to 13.50 cents today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The peso rose 0.1 percent to 3.9811 per dollar.  Relative to other Argentine companies, Arcor is a safer bet
for investors given government oversight of utility and energy
prices and turmoil in the global economy generated by concerns
that Europe’s debt crisis may spread, Mazzoni said.  Government Regulations  The government, in a bid to limit inflation, regulates the
prices of electricity and oil, which affects Edenor, the
country’s largest power distributor, and Pan American Energy
LLC, the largest crude exporter.  Consumer prices in Argentina are rising 26 percent per
year, the fastest in the world outside of Venezuela, according
to Buenos Aires-based research company Ecolatina. The government
said prices rose 11.1 percent in October from a year earlier and
has asked the International Monetary Fund for assistance in
creating a new inflation index.  European bonds fell earlier this week amid concern that a
debt crisis may spread beyond Greece and Ireland to Portugal and
Spain.  “If we see some volatility out of Europe then it would
continue to outperform next year,” Ollom said about Arcor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rodrigo Orihuela  in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
 Camila Russo  in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  