-- Guinea Says Conde Is Presidential Election Winner
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a   a n d   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-12-03T15:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/guinea-supreme-court-declares-alpha-conde-presidential-election-winner.html
Guinea’s Supreme Court declared  Alpha Conde  the winner of last month’s presidential election,
rafitying provisional results announced earlier by the country’s
electoral commission.  Conde got 52 percent of ballots cast on Nov. 7, Court
President  Mamadou Sylla  told reporters in the capital, Conakry,
yesterday, confirming results given by the commission. The
election represents the first democratic transfer of power since
the country won independence from France in 1958.  Ethnic clashes flared across the West African country after
Conde, who draws much of his support from the Malinke, the
second-largest ethnic group, was declared the winner of the Nov.
7 runoff election. His rival, former Prime Minister  Cello Dalein Diallo , has contested the results. Diallo was largely supported
by the Peul, the country’s largest ethnic group.  “Our attachment to peace and an undivided Guinea condemns
us to stay calm and to avoid any form of violence,” Diallo said
in a statement today. He declined to congratulate Conde and said
the vote was marred by irregularities.  The Peul represent 40 percent of the country’s 10.3 million
people and the Malinke account for 30 percent, according to the
CIA’s  World Factbook .  Guinea has faced political instability since a group of
military officers took power in December 2008 following the
death of former President  Lansana Conte , who had ruled for 24
years. General  Sekouba Konate  became the leader of the junta in
December 2009 after the 2008 coup leader,  Moussa Dadis Camara ,
was shot in the head by an aide.  “The decisions of the Supreme Court are without appeal,
that’s why I call on our supporters for peace and calm,” Fode
Oussou Fofana, Diallo’s campaign manager, told reporters in
Conakry today. “It is Guinea that has won.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 