-- Iceland Was Right Not to Bail Out Bondholders, Central Bank Governor Says
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2010-12-03T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/iceland-was-right-not-to-bail-out-bondholders-central-bank-governor-says.html
Iceland was right not to bail out
bondholders in the country’s banks and wasn’t ever in a position
to support creditors because of the size of the debt, central
bank Governor  Mar Gudmundsson  said.  “Bondholders should not rely on the government stepping in
and bailing them out,” Gudmundsson said after delivering a
speech in Frankfurt yesterday. “They should do their due
diligence.”  Creditors are still trying to recoup $85 billion after
 Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Landsbanki Islands hf  and  Glitnir Bank hf 
failed more than two years ago. Iceland’s decision to push the
cost of its banking failure onto bondholders instead of
taxpayers is in contrast to Ireland’s agreement to protect
senior bondholders from losses as part of its 85 billion-euro
($111 billion) rescue package.  “I think the Irish are accepting that they were probably
too fast in guaranteeing the whole liabilities of banks,”
Gudmundsson said. “Now this is turning out to be a big burden
because the assets of these banks turned out to be much worse
than they thought.”  Kaupthing’s so-called winding-up committee said Nov. 26
that it’s dealing with 28,167 claims totaling $63 billion filed
by creditors across 119 countries.  Iceland’s budget will be in surplus by 2012, compared with
Ireland’s deficit of 9.1 percent of gross domestic product, the
European Commission estimates. Unemployment in the euro member
will stay at 13.6 percent this year and next, compared with a
2011 peak of 8.1 percent in Iceland, according to a Nov. 18
report published by the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development.  “I haven’t made up my mind whether it is the right
decision for everybody, but Iceland didn’t have any other
option,” Gudmundsson said. “It will be very interesting to
assess this issue after a few years in terms of whether it was
maybe the right thing to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  