-- Illinois Passes Pension Fix for Cities, $3.7 Billion State Crisis Lingers
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2010-12-03T23:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/illinois-assembly-passes-pension-fix-for-cities-as-state-crisis-lingers.html
The Illinois General Assembly placed
new demands on the funding of municipal retirement plans, even
as it recessed until early January without acting on a $3.7
billion bond proposal to make payments into state employee
pension funds.  The state Senate doesn’t have enough votes to pass the bond
plan, said John Patterson, spokesman for Senate President  John Cullerton , a day after the chamber sent Governor  Pat Quinn  a
bill that Chicago Mayor  Richard M. Daley  warned would result in
the biggest property-tax increase in the city’s history.  Legislative inaction on state pension funding has dragged
on for months in Springfield, prompting advocates of pension
reform in Illinois to warn of the dangers of unfunded
liabilities that total at least $80 billion.  “We don’t have the will to cut or reform the system, and
we’ve been afraid to raise taxes,” said  R. Eden Martin ,
president of the Civic Committee of the Commercial Club of
Chicago. “Because of the political consequences, we’ve done
neither.”  Quinn said today that he hasn’t decided if he will sign the
bill that requires municipalities to make greater contributions
to police and firefighter pension systems. While new workers
would receive smaller retirement payments, the legislation
leaves benefits for current employees and retirees untouched.  ‘A Sound Way’  “For those men and women who put their lives on the line
every day for us, when they retire they are entitled to a decent
pension that is properly funded,” Quinn told reporters in
Chicago. “You have to do it in a sound way.”  The Illinois Senate rejected Daley’s objections and
approved the changes in funding requirements for police and fire
pensions, which would take effect in 2015. Chicago officials
said the revisions would result in a city property-tax increase
of at least $500 million a year and damage its economy.  The controversy is another sign of concern over unfunded
pension liabilities in state and municipal retirement systems in
Illinois. An October study by economists at Northwestern
University in Evanston, Illinois, and the University of
Rochester in New York forecasted that Chicago would run out of
money to pay benefits by 2019.  Illinois has $64 billion of assets to pay an estimated
liability of $126.4 billion, enough to cover about half the
benefits for 722,913 workers and retirees, according to bond
documents. The unfunded liability will rise to $79.1 billion in
fiscal 2011, according to a May  report  from the Illinois
Commission on Government Forecasting and Accountability.  Chicago Burden  Chicago residents already face the highest individual
burden for pension liabilities in the U.S. from seven municipal
retirement plans, amounting to almost $42,000 per household,
according the Northwestern and Rochester study.  Quinn has said he wants to borrow $3.7 billion with bonds
for the state to make its pension fund contributions for fiscal
2011. He also wants to redesign Illinois’s five public-worker
retirement systems to cut costs. The state sold $3.47 billion in
debt in January to make its 2010 contribution.  The state’s House of Representatives approved the pension
bonds but the Senate has yet to agree, even when called in for a
session Nov. 4.  Daley announced in September that he wouldn’t seek another
term in office after 21 years as mayor. One of the candidates
seeking to succeed him, former chief of staff  Gery Chico , said
that the retirement needs of police and firefighters should be
weighed against the ability of taxpayers to support them.  “We have to draw a balance that doesn’t put our taxpayers
so far in the hole that they don’t want to live in this city
anymore,” Chico said at a news conference yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tim Jones  in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  