-- IMF Study Advocates China Property Tax, Higher Rates to Avoid Overheating
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2010-12-03T04:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/imf-study-says-china-can-use-tax-rates-to-curb-risk-of-asset-price-bubble.html
China should raise interest rates
further and impose a property tax to curb the risk of asset
bubbles and a “disorderly fall” in home prices, according to a
study by the International Monetary Fund.  Existing measures “at best only treat the symptoms of high
residential real-estate inflation and not the underlying
structural causes,” the IMF working paper said today.  Luxury-home costs in Beijing and Nanjing and mass-market
prices in Shanghai and Shenzhen have become “increasingly
disconnected from fundamentals,” authors including staff member
Ashvin Ahuja said. At the same time, there is no sign of a
broad-based and significant over-valuation of residential
property in China, they said.  China has this year suspended mortgages for third-home
purchases, pledged to speed up trials of a property tax, and
raised interest rates for the first time in almost three years.
Low borrowing costs and a lack of alternative investments
contribute to “excessive house price inflation,” the
discussion document said.  China Vanke Co.  became the first Chinese developer to post
annual sales of 100 billion yuan ($15 billion), reaching a
target it had set for 2014 and defying government measures to
cool the real-estate market. The company reported revenue
yesterday.  Vanke’s “milestone” showed it was able to avoid China’s
efforts to restrain foreign capital and ease gains in the
housing market, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said Nov. 14 that home prices “can’t be
pushed down” by government controls.  Shanghai’s index  of real-estate stocks has fallen 27
percent this year compared with a 14 percent decline for the
overall benchmark. The property measure was up 1.1 percent as of
the 11:30 a.m. local time break in trading.  It’s too early to say whether government measures since
April to cool the market will have a long-lasting effect, the
IMF’s paper said. Property prices across 70 cities rose 8.6
percent in October from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sophie Leung  in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  