-- Roubini Says India Growth May Beat China’s in 10 Years
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2010-12-03T11:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/india-s-economic-growth-may-surpass-china-s-in-next-10-years-roubini-says.html
India’s economy may expand more
than  China ’s in the next 10 years if the world’s second-
most populous nation lifts curbs on foreign investment in retail
and boosts spending on roads and bridges,  Nouriel Roubini  said.  “I’m very optimistic about India’s future growth” because
the economy is driven by domestic demand while China relies more
on exports, the New York University professor and chairman of
Roubini Global Economics who predicted the global financial
crisis said in New Delhi yesterday. “The challenge for India
will be to sustain 9 percent growth and at the same time keep
inflation under control.”  Roubini joins Morgan Stanley in predicting India will grow
faster than China. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government plans to double spending on roads, ports and power
plants to $1 trillion in the five years to 2017 to improve the
quality of India’s infrastructure, which is ranked below Sri
Lanka and war-ravaged Ivory Coast.  The South Asian country’s gross domestic product climbed
8.9 percent for a second straight quarter in July to September,
the government said this week. O.P. Bhatt, chairman at the  State
Bank of India , the country’s biggest, said today 10 percent
growth for the nation “is inevitable.”  Small Stores  Indian laws, aimed at protecting small store owners, limit
overseas investment to single-brand retail or wholesale
operations.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s largest retailer,
and rivals including Carrefour SA and Tesco Plc are pushing the
government to allow foreign investment after the trade ministry
invited views from the industry on removing the restriction.  Wal-Mart Chief Executive Officer  Michael Duke  said in
October he is “optimistic” that non-Indian companies will be
allowed to invest in the country. Organized retail may create as
many as 3 million jobs in the next five years in India,
according to Duke.  India’s economy bucked a growth slowdown in Asian neighbors
from Thailand to Malaysia, where currency appreciation and risks
to exports from Europe’s debt crisis and U.S. unemployment have
clouded the outlook.  India’s factory output last month grew at the fastest pace
in six months, according to the Purchasing Managers’ Index
compiled by  HSBC  Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The nation’s
service industry expanded at the quickest pace in four months in
November, the companies said in a statement today. Exports in
October grew 21.3 percent, a separate report showed.  Young Population  “China is likely to slow in the coming years gradually and
India’s growth is likely to accelerate,” boosted by a young
population and higher consumption, Roubini said.  India will add 136 million workers, more than the
population of Japan, by 2020 compared with 23 million for China,
Morgan Stanley economist  Chetan Ahya  said in August. That will
help the nation tap into a rising pool of savings and help
finance infrastructure projects, he said.  Morgan Stanley expects India to overtake China as the
world’s fastest-growing major economy by 2015. India’s growth
may accelerate to 9.5 percent between 2011 and 2015, Ahya said.  India can sustain a growth rate of 9 percent by raising
productivity and addressing supply-side issues, Roubini said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at   canstey@bloomberg.net  