-- India Seeks Additional Compensation From Dow Chemical for Bhopal Gas Leak
-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k
-- 2010-12-03T16:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/india-seeks-additional-compensation-from-dow-chemical-for-bhopal-gas-leak.html
The Indian government filed a
petition before the country’s Supreme Court today seeking more
compensation from Dow Chemical Co. and two Indian companies for
a 1984 toxic gas leak.  Attorney General of India  G.E. Vahanvati  sought an
additional 57.8 billion rupees ($1.3 billion) to pay victims in
the filing that argued a settlement 21 years ago was based on
inaccurate estimates for the number of dead and injured.  An accident at the Union Carbide pesticide plant on Dec. 3,
1984, released methyl isocyanate gas into the streets of Bhopal,
the capital of Madhya Pradesh state in central India. Union
Carbide estimated that 3,800 people were killed by the leak.
 Amnesty International , a human rights group, commissioned a
study that showed 7,000 perished within days and another 15,000
died later from exposure to the gas.  Midland, Michigan-based Dow Chemical acquired Union Carbide
in 1999.  Dow Chemical  contends all liabilities were settled in
the $470 million out-of-court settlement between Union Carbide
and the Indian government in 1989.  Union Carbide and Dow Chemical have not received a copy of
the petition yet,  Tomm F. Sprick , the Houston-based director at
Union Carbide Information Center said in an e-mail.  “Any effort to reopen the 1989 Bhopal settlement agreement,
which twice has been reexamined, upheld and reaffirmed by the
Supreme Court of India in 1991 and most recently in 2007, is a
misguided effort that will only demonstrate India’s willingness
to put fundamental rules of justice at risk,” Sprick said.  The petition also seeks compensation from McLeod Russel
India Ltd., the world’s biggest tea plantation company, and
 Eveready Industries India Ltd. , which makes batteries and
flashlights.      McLeod Russel bought the local unit of Union
Carbide in 1994 and renamed it Eveready Industries. The two
companies were merged after buying Union Carbide India Ltd. They
were spun off in 2004 to focus on tea plantations and battery
manufacturing separately.  Aditya Khaitan , managing director of McLeod Russel and a
member of Eveready Industries’ board, could not be reached when
called at his office after hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 P.S. Patnaik  in New Delhi at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  