-- Rubber Deficit in India to Surge as Rising Demand Outstrips Local Output
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 2010-12-03T07:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/india-s-natural-rubber-shortage-may-surge-fivefold-on-demand-group-says.html
A natural-rubber shortage in India,
the world’s biggest consumer after China, may surge almost five
times over the next decade as rising incomes boost demand for
tires, according to an industry group.  The deficit may increase to 840,000 metric tons in 2020
from 175,000 tons next year,  Vinod Simon , president of the  All
India Rubber  Industries Association, said in an interview. In
2015, the shortfall may be 687,000 tons, Simon said.  The forecast underscores India’s rising consumption of
commodities as economic growth stokes consumer demand and the
government boosts infrastructure spending. India’s “commodity
demand has reached a tipping point, and growth is set to
accelerate significantly,” Barclays Capital said last month.  “The rubber deficit may stay longer than we imagine as car
sales continue to rise and a growing population boosts demand
for health care products,”  Anand James , chief analyst at
brokerage Geojit Comtrade Ltd., said from Kochi, Kerala.  The stronger consumption in India may help sustain this
year’s 34 percent rally in yen-priced futures. The contract on
the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, which reached a 30-year high of
383 yen ($4.57) per kilo on Nov. 11, traded at 370.4 yen today.
In India, spot prices in Kerala rose last month to more than 200
rupees ($4.43) a kilo for the first time. The Thai cash price
surged to an all-time high today of 134.05 baht ($4.46) a kilo.  ‘Still Be There’  The “increasing population of India will drive the market
for rubber products,” Simon said yesterday from Bangkok,
capital of the largest rubber producer and exporter, where he’s
attending a conference. “Shortage will still be there.”  Rubber consumption may climb to 1.89 million tons in 2020,
compared with 930,000 tons this year if the economy expands at
8.5 percent a year, Simon said. The South Asian nation’s economy
grew 8.9 percent for a second straight quarter in July to
September, a government report showed on Nov. 30.  India may expand faster than China in the next 10 years if
the government boosts spending on roads and bridges and lifts
investment curbs, New York University professor Nouriel Roubini
said yesterday. “China is likely to slow in the coming years
gradually and India’s growth is likely to accelerate,” boosted
by a young population and higher consumption, Roubini said.  ‘Through the Roof’  India’s Trade Secretary  Rahul Khullar  said this week that
rubber demand is “going through the roof,” and local output
from the world’s fourth-largest producer wasn’t going to expand
dramatically. The government may allow imports of as much as
100,000 tons at a lower duty to help meet demand, Khullar said.  India’s rubber output totaled 88,500 tons in November,
compared with 93,500 tons a year ago, according to figures from
the state-run  Rubber Board . Imports in the eight months to Nov.
30 totaled 143,468 tons from 139,321 tons as tire companies
stepped up purchases, the board said.  “Rubber will remain a sellers’ market, as it has been in
the past two to three years, as the demand-supply equation is
unlikely to change soon,” James said. Thailand, Malaysia and
Indonesia are the top three producers. Natural-rubber supply
this year may total 9.5 million tons, according to the
Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries, whose members
account for 92 percent of worldwide output.  Demand from India’s auto industry is expected to increase
“substantially” in the coming years after investments by tire
makers including Bridgestone Corp. and  Michelin & Cie.,  said
Simon. Annual car sales may double to 3 million by 2015,
according to a projection from India’s government.  Bridgestone  and Indian rivals including  Apollo Tyres Ltd. 
and  MRF Ltd.  are investing $3 billion in plants to meet demand
that’s forecast by Automotive Tyre Manufacturers’ Association to
expand 10 percent to 106 million tires in the year to March 31.
Rubber makes up 42 percent of raw-material costs, according to
the manufacturers’ group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Supunnabul Suwannakij  in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Kutty Abraham  in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  