-- Indonesia Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate at Record Low, Risking Credibility
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2010-12-03T06:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/indonesia-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-at-record-low-risking-credibility.html
Bank Indonesia kept its benchmark
interest rate at a record low, putting its inflation-fighting
credibility at risk as it judges the economy can cope with
accelerating price gains.  The central bank maintained its reference rate at 6.5
percent for a 16th meeting, it said in  Jakarta  today. All 20
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News had expected the decision.
The measure is at the lowest level since its introduction in
July 2005.  “Bank Indonesia is risking being behind the curve,” said
 Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Capital Economics in Singapore.
“Inflation is picking up faster than anticipated. Monetary
policy acts with a lag and Bank Indonesia wouldn’t want
inflation expectations to become unanchored.”  Indonesia has avoided raising interest rates this year even
as a regional rebound prompted moves by China, India, Malaysia,
South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan, whose benchmarks are lower.
The central bank, which has ordered lenders to set aside larger
reserves to rein in liquidity without hurting economic expansion,
said today it may regulate rupiah bank accounts held by non-
residents to mitigate the impact of capital inflows.  “Questions will persist as to how much longer the rate
would stay at 6.5 percent if inflation were to continue inching
higher,”  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. in Singapore, said before the decision. “This may trigger
some credibility issues eventually.”  Inflation Accelerates  Indonesia’s consumer prices rose 6.33 percent last month
from a year earlier, the Central Bureau of Statistics said Dec.
1, exceeding all estimates in a Bloomberg News survey of 20
economists. The gain compared with a 5.67 percent increase in
October.  Thailand has boosted borrowing costs three times this year,
most recently this week, matching the number of moves by Bank
Negara Malaysia. Singapore’s central bank, which uses the
exchange rate to manage inflation, has tightened its monetary
stance twice this year, revaluing its currency in April and
saying it would allow faster currency gains.  China, which raised rates in October, will shift to a
“prudent” monetary policy next year from a relatively loose
stance, Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing a work meeting
of Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central
Committee.  Capital Flows  Bank Indonesia has delayed a rate increase that could
attract more funds at a time when emerging markets are luring
investors away from developed economies. The  Jakarta Composite
Index  has gained 46 percent this year, boosting stocks of
companies including lender PT Bank Central Asia and noodle-maker
PT Indofood Sukses Makmur. The rupiah has risen more than 4
percent against the dollar.  Bank Indonesia may regulate so-called vostro accounts, or
rupiah current accounts held by non-residents in domestic banks,
the central bank said in a statement today.  “By using the vostro accounts, there is an implicit
acknowledgement that they need to hike rates to tackle inflation
without getting distracted by other issues, which must be
handled by other policy tools,” Varathan said.  The benchmark interest rate is “consistent” with the
central bank’s inflation target, Bank Indonesia said. The pace
of price increases may exceed 6 percent “slightly” by the end of
the year, it said.  Inflation Focus  Consumer-price gains in 2011 will probably be above the
central bank’s goal and there is a “material chance” that
inflation may reach as high as 8 percent in the next three to
six months, Cahyadi said.  Concern global growth will falter has prompted neighboring
Malaysia to pause after raising interest rates earlier this year.
Ireland last month became the second euro country to get a
bailout in a revival of sovereign credit woes in Europe. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the U.S. economy
isn’t growing fast enough to “materially” reduce unemployment
that is above 9 percent.  Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said yesterday the
unexpected Bank of Thailand rate increase on Dec. 1 is a concern
for economic growth, which slowed last quarter. Indonesia’s
economic expansion also eased in the three months through
September to 5.8 percent.  Bank Indonesia Governor  Darmin Nasution  has ordered lenders
to set aside larger reserves, aiming to rein in as much as 50
trillion rupiah ($5.6 billion) of excess liquidity. From Nov. 1,
Indonesian banks were required to set aside 8 percent of their
deposits as primary reserves from 5 percent previously.  The central bank also unveiled measures earlier this year
to encourage investors to keep their money in the country longer
and reduce volatility in capital flows and the currency.  “Having these measures in place to mitigate some of the
capital inflows would give Bank Indonesia the relative comfort
zone to re-focus on their primary monetary policy tool kit, that
of the policy rate, to counter Indonesia’s inflation concerns,”
said  Wellian Wiranto , an HSBC Holdings Plc economist in
Singapore. “We continue to expect the central bank to hike rates
starting from January 2011.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Shamim Adam  in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  