-- Iran Spared From Paying $2.6 Billion Over Terror Bomb
-- B y   P a m e l a   M a c l e a n
-- 2010-12-03T20:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/iran-held-immune-from-effort-to-collect-2-6-billion-terror-bomb-judgment.html
A federal appeals panel ruled that
families of 241 soldiers killed in the 1983 U.S. Marine barracks
bombing in Beirut can’t collect their portion of a $2.6 billion
court judgment by diverting Iran’s rights to payment from a
French shipping company.  In 2007, a federal judge in Washington ordered Iran to pay
the $2.6 billion, one of the largest awards against any country,
in part to deter terrorists and to help survivors cope. Iranian
officials didn’t appear in court to contest the case and Iran
has ignored similar orders.  The families began attempts to collect the money by
submitting 15 motions in federal court in San Francisco, each
naming a different shipping company that allegedly owed payments
to Iran. The families aimed to win orders that the companies
must divert payments to cover the judgment.  While Iran didn’t try to challenge the claims, U.S.
District Judge  Jeffrey White  raised the issue of Iran’s foreign
sovereign immunity rights from such claims and ultimately
refused to order the diversion of the payments. The U.S. Court
of Appeals in San Francisco upheld that decision today in a 2-1
ruling.  “It is the plaintiff’s burden to prove that an exception
to immunity applies if it is readily apparent that the property
at issue belongs to a foreign state” the appeals court said.  Peter Buscemi , attorney for French shipper CMA CGM SA, the
company whose payments to Iran were at issue in today’s case,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment.  “As a result of the ruling, our recourse against the
shipping company is at an impasse,” said David Cook, attorney
for the families.  Cook said he will consider both legal appeals and
legislative reforms.  “The message to multinationals who deal with Iran is that
the victims of state-sponsored terrorism will continue to seek
recompense,” he said. “We are free to proceed against other
assets of Iran in the United States, or can repatriate it from
other jurisdictions outside the U.S.”  Enforcement efforts continue elsewhere, including
proceedings against ancient Iranian Cuniform tablets held by the
University of Chicago, he said.  U.S. Justice Department spokesman  Charles Miller  declined
to comment on the case. Iran didn’t enter the case as a party.  The case is Peterson v. Islamic Republic of Iran, 08-17756,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pamela A. MacLean at   pmaclean@pacbell.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 