-- ITC Shuts Cigarette Factories Over Pictorial Warning on Risks of Cancer
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n
-- 2010-12-03T05:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/itc-shuts-cigarette-factories-over-pictorial-warning-on-risks-of-cancer.html
ITC Ltd. , India’s largest cigarette
maker, has shut all its five factories manufacturing the tobacco
product awaiting clarity from the government on the display of
pictorial health-warning labels, spokesman Nazeeb Arif said.  The Kolkata-based company has closed the plants from Dec.
1, Arif said by telephone today. “There is no clarity about
what has to be carried” on the product label, he said.  India’s Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in March
 ordered  all tobacco product makers to carry graphic pictorial
warnings on their product packaging that cautioned buyers of the
possible risk of mouth cancer, replacing an earlier image of
lung cancer. The existing pictorial warnings printed on
cigarette packs was due for a changeover from Dec. 1, according
to  Richard Liu , an analyst at JM Financial Institutional
Securities Pvt. in Mumbai.  “Since the changeover date of Dec. 1 was known well in
advance, the company is likely to have provided for adequate
inventory,” Liu, who rates the stock “buy,” wrote in a note
to investors yesterday. “We do not envisage the temporary
production halt to have any noticeable impact on cigarettes
volume for the current quarter.”  ITC  declined 1.1 percent to 169 rupees as of 10:45 a.m. in
Mumbai trading, while the benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index rose 0.2 percent. ITC had fallen as much as 3.6
percent earlier today.  Discourage Smoking  The printing of warnings with pictures of mouth cancer
follows other steps by the government, which barred tobacco
advertising in May 2004 and proposed to restrict the display and
use of tobacco products in movies in an attempt to discourage
smoking in the world’s second-most populous nation.  India had almost 70,000 estimated cases of cancers of the
mouth in 2008, the highest in the world ahead of the U.S. at
23,000 cases, according to statistics  compiled by the World
Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on
Cancer.  Godfrey Phillips India Ltd.  has also stopped production of
cigarettes at both its factories, the company said in an e-mail
statement today.  Shares of India’s second-biggest cigarette maker fell 2.1
percent to 1,980 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  