-- Ivory Coast's Ouattara Declares Victory in Election, Backed by UN Mission
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-04T13:59:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ivory-coast-officials-split-over-whether-gbagbo-ouattara-won-nov-28-vote.html
Ivory Coast ’s presidential candidate
 Alassane Ouattara  declared himself the winner of the Nov. 28
election after the United Nations dismissed a claim by the
Constitutional Council that incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo  had won.  UN mission chief, Young-jin Choi, backed results announced
by the Electoral Commission that gave victory to Ouattara. The
Constitutional Council had said those results were invalid.
State television said armed forces chiefs backed Gbagbo and he
would be proclaimed president later today.  “The United Nations has just certified the results from
the Electoral Commission,” Ouattara told a press conference
late yesterday. “Thus, I am the president elect of the Republic
of Ivory Coast.”  The election was meant to unite the world’s top cocoa
grower, which has been divided into a rebel-held north and
government-controlled south since a 2002 uprising. Now, the
dispute over the results is threatening to worsen violence that
left several dead during the campaign, including at least six
people who were killed late on Dec. 1 at an opposition party
office by unidentified gunmen.  “I ask all my compatriots to stay calm and preserve the
peace,” Ouattara said. “I call once again on my brother
Laurent Gbagbo to respect the people’s choice.”  Armed Forces Declaration  Preparations for a ceremony at which Gbagbo will be
proclaimed president are under way at the presidential palace in
the commercial capital Abidjan amid tight security.  State television screened footage late yesterday of General
Philippe Mangou, chief of the armed forces, accompanied by the
heads of the police, gendarmerie, navy and Republican Guard,
going to congratulate Gbagbo.  “We have come to greet the president of the republic, we
are here to express our admiration and to reiterate our
availability and our loyalty, and to tell him that we are ready
to take on any mission that he will entrust us with,” Mangou
said.  Youssouf Bakayoko, president of the electoral commission,
said on Dec. 2 that Ouattara won 54.1 percent of the ballot, or
2.5 million votes, while Gbagbo received 45.9 percent, or 2.1
million.  “I, as certifier of this election, have completed the
analysis and evaluation of the tally sheets,” Choi told
reporters yesterday. “Candidate Ouattara is the winner.”  The Constitutional Council annulled the results in seven
regions in the north of the country, alleging irregularities,
and gave victory to Gbagbo,  Paul Yao N’Dre , its president, said
in a statement read on television yesterday.  Obama  Choi said the denial of Ouattara’s victory had “no factual
basis,” and that “even if all the complaints” about the
election “were taken into account,” Ouattara would still be
the winner.  U.S. President Barack Obama said the country is “at a
crossroads” and urged Gbagbo to accept Ouattara’s victory. “The
international community will hold those who act to thwart the
democratic process and the will of the electorate accountable
for their actions,” he said late yesterday.  Ouattara supporters used tables and pieces of wood to
barricade streets and set car tires afire in the Abidjan suburb
of Treichville today. Police dressed in riot gear fired shots
into the air to disperse the crowd and doused the fires with
buckets of water.  “Gbagbo’s desire to hang onto his presidency, seemingly at
all costs, could push the country over the edge into another
civil war,”  Gus Selassi , an analyst at IHS Global Insight, said
in e-mailed comments.  French Reaction  UN Secretary-General  Ban Ki-moon  released a statement in
New York saying he supports Choi and congratulating Ouattara.  Ban urged Gbagbo and “all Ivorians to accept the certified
outcome and to work together in a spirit of peace and
reconciliation.”  President Nicolas Sarkozy of France described Ouattara’s
victory in the former French colony, which became independent in
1960, as “uncontestable and certain,” and called for an
orderly transition of power.  “I am calling on the military and civilian authorities to
respect the people’s choice and refrain from any initiative that
could cause violence,” Sarkozy said today in Bangalore, India,
at the start of a four-day state visit.  African Union  The council’s “decision is ridiculous and anti-
democratic,” Anne Ouloto, a spokeswoman for Ouattara, said by
phone. “Laurent Gbagbo has just proclaimed himself president of
Ivory Coast through his friend Paul Yao N’Dre. This is a
farce.”  The army has sealed off all the country’s borders until
further notice, the military said in a statement read out on
state television. Foreign television and radio signals have been
jammed indefinitely, the National Broadcasting Council said in a
separate statement.  The African Union said in an e-mailed statement that it has
asked former South Africa President Thabo Mbeki to lead an
emergency mission to Ivory Coast “to facilitate the rapid and
peaceful conclusion of the electoral process and the efforts to
find a way out of the crisis.”  Yesterday, the continental grouping expressed “deep
concern” at developments in the Ivory Coast, saying the will of
the people and the outcome of the election needed to be
respected. “Any other approach risks plunging Ivory Coast into
a crisis with incalculable consequences for the country, as well
as for the region and the continent as a whole,” it said.  Cocoa Rises  Cocoa for March delivery climbed $67, or 2.3 percent, to
2,935 pounds in New York yesterday after jumping 4 percent the
day before.  Ivory Coast’s growth has averaged 1.1 percent in the eight
years since the conflict started as the cocoa-dependent country
missed out on the wave of foreign investment in Africa from
nations such as China.  Supporters of Gbagbo, 65, hold Ouattara, 68, responsible
for the revolt in 2002, a charge he denies. The rebels say they
attempted to seize power because northerners were treated as
second-class citizens.  “There is a very strong possibility that if things are not
settled within the next couple of weeks, we could see an all-out
breakout of violence,” said  Oswald Felli , head of security and
violent risk assessments with New York-based DaMina Advisors.
Regional leaders, including Ghana’s President  John Atta Mills 
and Burkina Faso leader  Blaise Compaore , may need to “push for
a unity government with Ouattara as the number one, but with
Gbagbo retaining some powers,” Felli said in a phone interview.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 