-- Ivory Coast Names Ouattara Election Winner as Court Challenges Decision
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2010-12-03T10:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ivory-coast-s-ouattara-declared-winner-amid-court-disputes.html
Ivory Coast ’s Constitutional Court
challenged the authority of the country’s electoral commission
to proclaim the results of Nov. 28 presidential election, after
it named opposition leader  Alassane Ouattara  as the winner.  Ouattara won 54.1 percent, or 2.5 million votes, while
President Laurent Gbagbo received 45.9 percent, or 2.1 million,
Youssouf Bakayoko, president of the electoral commission, said
in a statement handed to reporters yesterday at a hotel in
 Abidjan , which Ouattara had been using as his campaign base.
Voter turnout was 81.1 percent, Bakayoko said.  The commission “is not capable of giving the results”
after it missed a deadline to announce the outcome within three
days of the election, said  Paul Yao N’Dre , president of the
Constitutional Court, in a statement broadcast on state-
controlled Radiodiffusion Television Ivoirienne. Both candidates
traded accusations of intimidation and fraud on election day,
which N’Dre said the court wanted to investigate before
proclaiming its own outcome within the next seven days.  The United Nations “welcomed the announcement of the
provisional results,” according to a  statement  published on the
UN’s website. The current president of the Security Council,
U.S. ambassador  Susan Rice , said the commission’s declaration is
“a crucial step for ensuring the validity and integrity of the
electoral process.”  Divided Country  The election was meant to unite the world’s top cocoa
grower, which has been divided into a rebel-held north and
government-controlled south since a 2002 uprising. Supporters of
Gbagbo, 65, hold Ouattara, 68, responsible for the revolt; a
charge he denies. The rebels say they attempted to seize power
because northerners were treated as second-class citizens.  Cocoa for March delivery climbed 31 pounds ($49), or 1.6
percent, to 1,954 pounds as of 10:15 a.m. in London, adding to
yesterday’s gain of 3.2 percent.  “I ask all Ivorians, whether they voted for me or not, to
face the challenges ahead together,” said Ouattara, a former
prime minister and ex-deputy managing director of the
International Monetary Fund, in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Growth has averaged 1.1 percent in the eight years since
the conflict started as the cocoa-dependent country missed out
on the wave of foreign investment in Africa from nations such as
China.  There is concern over whether “the stand-off will play out
within the institutional framework, or will it move over on to
the streets,” said  Hannah Koep , Africa analyst with London-
based Control Risks, in a phone interview yesterday.  Campaign Violence  The campaign was marred by violence that left several dead,
including at least six people who were killed late on Dec. 1 at
a Ouattara party office when unidentified gunmen entered the
facility and opened fire.  “There is a very strong possibility that if things are not
settled within the next couple of weeks, we could see an all-out
breakout of violence,” said Oswald Felli, head of security and
violent risk assessments with New York-based DaMina Advisors.
Regional leaders, including Ghana’s President  John Atta Mills 
and Burkina Faso leader  Blaise Compaore  may need to “push for a
unity government with Ouattara as the number one, but with
Gbagbo retaining some powers,” Felli said in a phone interview.  The International Criminal Court said it was monitoring the
situation in Ivory Coast and that it would scrutinize all
reported acts of violence.  “In light of recent clashes, I urge supporters of the
candidates and security forces to refrain from violence,” Fatou
Bensouda, the court’s deputy prosecutor, said in an e-mailed
statement. “I encourage the political leaders to call on their
supporters and fellow citizens to show restraint and avoid
unrest.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 