-- Kent Reliance Owner Flowers Eyes Irish, U.K. Acquisitions Amid Debt Crisis
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2010-12-03T12:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/j-c-flowers-eyes-european-purchases-amid-region-s-sovereign-debt-crisis.html
Financier  J. Christopher Flowers  said
he’s planning purchases in Europe as he expects the sovereign
debt crisis won’t spread to Spain and Italy.  “I think Spanish and European authorities will avoid this
turning into a sovereign debt crisis for Spain,” he said in an
interview in London today. “My own guess is that this crisis
will be contained, that Spain will get through this okay and
Italy as well.”  The founder of New York-based private equity firm J.C.
Flowers & Co. LLC is looking at Irish banking assets and sees
“potentially interesting deals” in the U.K, he said in a
separate Bloomberg Television interview. He said he aims to use
his recent investment in U.K. Kent Reliance Building Society as
a platform for further acquisitions in the country.  “We’ve taken a look at Irish banks and if we can find the
right opportunity to invest in Ireland, we would like to do
that,” Flowers said. “In Britain as well. We hope through that
investment in Kent Reliance to do more in this country.”  Leveraged buyout firms including J.C. Flowers and
Washington-based Carlyle Group have raised funds targeting
banking assets as the most severe financial crisis in decades is
forcing lenders to sell assets. Private equity firms have led
$49.5 billion of takeovers in the financial services industry
since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kent Reliance  J.C. Flowers said in August it will inject 50 million
pounds ($78 million) into U.K. residential mortgage lender Kent
Reliance as part of a plan to acquire more customer-owned banks
in the U.K. The U.S. buyout firm was among the bidders for EBS
Building Society, Ireland’s largest customer-owned lender, three
people familiar with knowledge of the situation said in Sept.  “Retail banking is an attractive area in all parts of the
world,” Flowers said today during the interview.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Britain’s biggest mortgage
lender, is selling 600 branches and Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc is selling its Churchill insurance division to comply with
European Union state aid rules following their rescue.  “There are a number of transactions that are potentially
interesting in the U.K., and we hope to be a participant in some
of those,” Flowers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  