-- Japan 10-Year Bond Yields `Have Reached Their Peak,' HSBC Securities Says
-- B y   N o b u y u k i   A k a m a
-- 2010-12-03T02:56:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/japan-10-year-bond-yields-have-reached-their-peak-hsbc-securities-says.html
Japanese  bond  yields are likely to
decline into next year as a worsening global economy boosts
demand for government debt, HSBC Securities Japan Ltd. said.  Benchmark yields may fall as low as 0.9 percent in the
first half of 2011 as the end of stimulus measures in Japan such
as subsidies for energy-efficient cars lead to slower growth,
said  Seiji Shiraishi , chief economist at HSBC in Tokyo. Japan’s
 gross domestic product  will shrink in the three months through
December, according to a survey released by the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association.  “Long-term yields have already reached their peak after a
two-month rally,” Shiraishi said. “Yields will fluctuate at
around 1.1 percent and may fall to the 0.9 percent level in the
first half of next year.”  Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond yielded 1.19 percent as of
the 11:05 a.m. morning close in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co.,
the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The yield has
risen from a seven-year low of 0.82 percent set on Oct. 6. It
reached 1.2 percent yesterday for the first time since June.  The easing of uncertainty over the global economic outlook
has spurred bond yields to climb in Japan and the U.S. since
October, Shiraishi said.  Stocks rose and Treasuries declined yesterday after a
report showed U.S. companies added more workers than economists
forecast in November. Still, the recent improvement in the labor
market won’t be enough to push down the unemployment rate,
Shiraishi said.  Household Spending  Bond yields are likely to drop as U.S. household spending
stalls and inflation slows, helping cap Japanese 10-year rates
at 1.2 percent, he said.  Japan’s economy grew at an annual 3.9 percent pace in the
three months ended Sept. 30, the Cabinet Office said Nov. 15.
GDP is likely to contract at a 0.9 percent annualized pace in
the three months through December, the Economic Planning
Association survey forecast.  Bonds will also be supported as Japanese banks have almost
finished reducing their positions in domestic bonds, which will
ease upward pressures on yields, Shiraishi said.  Japan’s 10-year yields will decline to 1.06 percent by the
end of the year before rising to 1.21 percent by June 30,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of financial companies with
the latest estimates given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nobuyuki Akama  in Tokyo at 
 akam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 