-- Stocks Rise for Third Day on U.S. Housing; Fast Retailing Slumps on Sales
-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 2010-12-03T07:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/japanese-stocks-rise-for-third-day-on-u-s-housing-data-europe-loan-plan.html
Japanese  stocks  rose, sending the
Nikkei 225 Stock Average to a fifth straight weekly gain, as U.S.
housing and retail data bolstered confidence in a global
economic recovery.  Canon Inc. , which is the world’s biggest camera maker and
gets more than 80 percent of its sales abroad, climbed 1.5
percent. Nikon Corp., a camera maker that counts North America
as its largest market, gained 1 percent. Mitsui & Co., which
counts commodities as its largest source of profit, rose 0.5
percent after metal prices increased. Fast Retailing Co., Asia’s
biggest clothing chain, retreated 3 percent after sales at its
flagship Uniqlo unit fell for a fourth consecutive month.  “Risks that the economy will deteriorate are decreasing
and market sentiment is improving,” said  Kenji Sekiguchi , who
helps with strategy and investment in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ
Asset Management Co., which oversees $75 billion. “The U.S.
economy is starting to come out of a period of marking time,
during which the momentum of the economic recovery slowed.”  The Nikkei 225 rose 0.1 percent to 10,178.32 at 3 p.m. in
Tokyo, the highest close since June 21. The broader  Topix  index
advanced 0.2 percent to 879.22, as about five stocks gained for
every three that fell. This week, the gauges climbed 1.4 percent.  The Nikkei had a fifth straight weekly advance, the longest
winning streak since April. It has risen in December in six of
the past seven years. Last month it gained 8 percent, the
fastest pace among indexes for the world’s 45 largest equity
markets and its first November increase since 2005.  Dollar Boost  Stocks have advanced as the dollar strengthened from a 15-
year low against the yen, buoyed by the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
expansion of record measures to support the world’s biggest
economy. A stronger dollar swells the value of U.S. income at
Japanese companies when converted into their home currency.  Canon increased 1.5 percent to 4,110 yen and was the
 biggest contributor  to both the Nikkei and the Topix. Fanuc
Corp., Japan’s No. 1 maker of industrial robots by revenue, rose
1.3 percent to 12,550 yen, its highest close since November 2007.
Nikon gained 1 percent to 1,698 yen.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.3 percent
yesterday in New York, led by financial shares after Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. raised its rating on the industry.  Pending sales of U.S. existing houses jumped by a record 10
percent in October, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday. That compares with a median estimate by 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg for a 1 percent drop. Separate reports
showed claims for  jobless benefits  over the past month on
average dropped to a two-year low, and that November chain-store
sales exceeded estimates.  ‘Positive Surprise’  “The increase in pending home sales was a positive
surprise,” said  Juichi Wako , a senior strategist at Tokyo-based
Nomura Holdings Inc.  Mitsui & Co., which counts commodities as its largest
source of profit, gained 0.5 percent to 1,341 yen. Marubeni Corp.
rose 2.2 percent to 569 yen, its highest close since April 26.
JX Holdings Inc., Japan’s largest copper producer, increased 1.1
percent to 540 yen.  Crude oil for January delivery jumped 1.4 percent in New
York yesterday to $88 a barrel, the highest settlement since Oct.
8, 2008. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum rose 1.6 percent
yesterday, a third consecutive advance.  The Nikkei 225 has fallen 3.5 percent this year and is down
10 percent from its 2010 high in April as Europe’s government-
debt crisis and China’s steps to curb property-price inflation
hurt confidence in a global economic recovery.  Fast Retailing Falls  Concern that tensions may escalate between North Korea and
South Korea weighed on equities last week. Stocks in the Nikkei
trade at 17.8 times  estimated earnings  on average, near their
highest level since July.  Among today’s declines, Fast Retailing had the  biggest
percentage drop  in the Nikkei 225 and was the gauge’s heaviest
drag. The clothing-chain operator slumped 3 percent to 12,990
yen after saying sales at its Uniqlo stores in Japan fell for a
fourth straight month, even after offering discounts on thermal
wear and down jackets. Domestic sales at stores open at least a
year declined 14.5 percent in November from a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Akiko Ikeda  in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 