-- J&J Hip Replacement Lawsuits Given to One Judge
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-12-04T18:58:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/jnj-s-hip-recall-lawsuits-assigned-to-federal-judge-in-ohio.html
All pretrial proceedings in federal
lawsuits against  Johnson & Johnson  over recalled devices used in
hip-replacement surgery will be overseen by a federal judge in
Ohio, a judicial panel decided.  U.S. District Judge  David A. Katz  in federal court in
Toledo will supervise evidence-gathering efforts in cases over
the ASR XL Acetabular System, which J&J’s DePuy Orthopaedics
unit recalled on Aug. 26 after the implants stopped functioning
properly.  Such consolidation “will serve the convenience of the
parties and witnesses and promote the just and efficient conduct
of the litigation,” according to the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation. About 150 federal lawsuits are
pending, and plaintiff’s lawyer Steven T. Baron of Baron & Budd
in Dallas said he represents “hundreds of claimants” with
defective hips.  “I’m highly confident there will be thousands of
lawsuits,” Baron said in an interview. “I think this is a very
significant liability for Johnson & Johnson. I believe that the
damages that they’ve caused are in the billions of dollars.”  DePuy recalled both the ASR XL Acetabular System, a total
hip-replacement product approved by U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in August 2005, and the DePuy ASR Hip Resurfacing
System, which wasn’t used in the U.S. A total of 93,000 were
implanted, including 37,000 in the U.S., according to
spokeswoman Lorie Gawreluk.  ‘Revision Surgery’  New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J, the world’s largest
health-care products company, and Warsaw, Indiana-based DePuy
said they recalled the devices after researchers found many
patients needed “revision surgery” after five years because of
design defects.  “DePuy looks forward to working with Judge Katz and
counsel for plaintiffs to address the issues raised by this
litigation,” Gawreluk said in an e-mail. “DePuy remains
committed to covering reasonable and customary costs of testing
and treatment for patients who need services, including revision
surgery if it is necessary, associated with the ASR recall.”  Researchers in the U.K. found recently that after five
years, 13 percent of patients with complete hip replacements and
12 percent with resurfacing devices needed a second operation,
known as a revision, J&J officials said in a statement
announcing the recall.  $1 Billion Settlement  Other medical-device makers have faced costly product-
liability cases in the past over hip-replacement systems.  Sulzer AG  agreed in 2001 to a $1 billion settlement of
suits alleging hip and knee implants made by its former Sulzer
Medica unit were defective. Sulzer, the world’s second-largest
maker of pumps, is based in Winterthur, Switzerland.  Katz oversaw hundreds of lawsuits filed by women who blamed
their blood clots, heart attacks or strokes on the company’s
Ortho Evra birth-control patches.  The seven-judge MDL panel, created in 1968, decides whether
lawsuits in different federal courts have common factual
questions that would benefit from consolidation. The process is
designed to streamline the exchange of evidence and avoid
duplication. Once pretrial proceedings are completed, the
individual cases are sent back for trial in the courts where
they were first filed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Voreacos  in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 