-- JPMorgan, Ratings Companies Lose Bid to End Suit Over Mortgage-Bond Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2010-12-04T01:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/jpmorgan-ratings-companies-lose-bid-to-end-mortgage-bond-suit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and credit-
ratings companies lost a bid to throw out lawsuits over the sale
of $2.8 billion of mortgage-backed securities to the Federal
Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh.  Pennsylvania state Judge R. Stanton Wettick Jr. in
Pittsburgh said some claims could proceed against JPMorgan and
ratings companies  Moody’s Corp. , Fitch Group Inc. and  McGraw-
Hill Cos. , which owns Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC,
according to a Nov. 29 court order. The judge dismissed other
claims against the companies.  “We are very pleased with the judge’s ruling and we look
forward to stating our viewpoints as the case goes forward in
court,” Neil Cotiaux, a spokesman for the Federal Home Loan
Bank of Pittsburgh, said today in a phone interview.  The decision affects four lawsuits filed by Federal Home
Loan Bank over the purchase of mortgage-backed securities,
according to the judge’s ruling. The bank claims it wouldn’t
have bought the bonds if JPMorgan, which sold them, and the
ratings companies “had provided complete and accurate
information regarding the risks of nonpayment,” the judge said
in his description of the complaint.  The defendants in the cases are the three ratings
companies, JPMorgan and  Bank of America Corp. ’s Countrywide
Financial unit, according to the decision.  Dana Yealy, general counsel for the Federal Home Loan Bank
of Pittsburgh, said in a phone interview that the bank spent
$2.8 billion for the mortgage-backed securities involved in the
four cases. He declined to comment about their value now.  One of the lawsuits involves $1.7 billion of mortgage-
backed securities bought by the Federal Home Loan Bank from May
2006 to December 2007, the judge wrote.  ‘Predictions’ Protected  “We’re pleased that the court has dismissed all but one of
the claims against S&P,”  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for the
company, said today in an e-mailed statement. “In doing so, the
court has reaffirmed the protection afforded to ratings because
they are predictions about future creditworthiness.”  The remaining claim against S&P is “without any factual or
legal merit,” Sweeney said.  Wettick said the Federal Home Loan Bank’s fraudulent
misrepresentation claims against the ratings companies could
proceed. The judge dismissed claims against them for negligent
misrepresentation and violations of the Securities Act of 1933,
according to the decision.  Fraudulent and negligent misrepresentation claims were
dismissed against a group of JPMorgan units except J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc. Claims based on the Securities Act of 1933 were
dismissed against some JPMorgan units. They can proceed against
the parent company and J.P. Morgan Securities.  Lawyers for the other ratings companies and JPMorgan didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Bill Halldin , a Bank
of America spokesman, declined to comment.  The case is Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh v. J.P.
Morgan Securities LLC, GD09-016892, Court of Common Pleas of
Allegheny County, Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 