-- JPMorgan's One Equity Partners Is Said to Plan Sale of Columbian Chemicals
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2010-12-03T16:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/jpmorgan-s-one-equity-partners-is-said-to-plan-sale-of-columbian-chemicals.html
One Equity Partners LLC, the buyout
arm of  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., plans to sell U.S. carbon black
manufacturer  Columbian Chemicals Co ., said two people with
direct knowledge of the matter.  India’s Aditya Birla Group is among potential bidders for
the world’s third-largest maker of the material used in tires
and synthetic rubber, said one of the people, declining to be
identified because the matter is confidential. A transaction may
be valued at more than $500 million, the person said.  Columbian Chemicals, based in Marietta, Georgia, may
compete for bidders with the carbon black unit of Germany’s
Evonik Industries AG. Billionaire  Kumar Mangalam Birla ’s company
and India’s Phillips Carbon Black Ltd. are considering making
offers for Evonik, the world’s No. 2 maker of carbon black, in a
deal likely to be valued at more than $700 million, two people
familiar with the matter said earlier this week.  Pragnya Ram , a Birla Group spokeswoman in Mumbai, declined
to comment on “market speculation.” JPMorgan spokesman  Justin Perras  also declined to comment.  Columbian Chemicals is the world’s third-largest maker of
carbon black behind Cabot Corp. and Evonik, according to a
Standard & Poor’s report in October. The closely held company
has a market share of about 9 percent, and the three biggest
companies jointly account for about one-third of worldwide
capacity, the ratings company said.  Columbian Chemicals operates 11 plants in nine countries
including U.S, Canada, Brazil, Germany, Spain, South Korea and
China, according to its website. Carbon black is a material used
to increase durability of tires, paints and plastics.  Four Nations  The Birla Group is the world’s fourth-largest producer of
carbon black with operations spread across four units including
Alexandria Carbon Black Co. in Egypt; Hi Tech Carbon, a division
of  Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd . in India; Thai Carbon Black Public Co.
in Thailand and Liaoning Birla Carbon Co. in China, according to
its website.  DC Chemical Co. , a South Korean maker of petrochemicals and
solar-power components, and One Equity Partners jointly bought
Columbian Chemicals for about $600 million from Phelps Dodge
Corp. in 2006. One Equity  agreed to acquire  DC Chemical’s 67
percent stake for about $150 million in January 2009.  One Equity, established in 2001, manages $8 billion of
investments for New York-based JPMorgan in direct private-equity
transactions, according to its website.  Evonik, which has operations in 12 countries, said its
global production capacity will reach more than 1.4 million
metric tons a year by end of 2010, according to a statement in
June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 George Smith Alexander  in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge   jstonge@bloomberg.net  