-- Junk Bonds Revive as Sales Soar, Spreads Shrink: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2010-12-03T14:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/junk-bond-market-back-open-as-sales-soar-spreads-shrink-credit-markets.html
The market for junk bonds is reviving,
after at least seven companies pulled sales last week, signaling
investors are gaining confidence that Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis won’t infect the global economy.  International Lease Finance Corp.  and  Clearwire Corp.  led
speculative-grade companies selling $2.4 billion of debt
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Relative
yields have narrowed 29 basis points since Nov. 30 to 593 basis
points, or 5.93 percentage points, the biggest two-day decline
since May.  Junk bond issuance, which declined in November following
the busiest two-month period on record, is returning amid
reports retail sales rose the most since March and the number of
Americans signing contracts to buy existing houses jumped by a
record 10 percent in October. The European Central Bank extended
an emergency loan program and President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
pledged to fight “acute” financial market tensions.  “The risk environment’s better, and you’ve got few places
to go, so we’re seeing people come into high-yield,” said  Peter Ehret , head of high-yield investments and a senior money manager
at Invesco Ltd., which oversees $621 billion in assets. “This
week, things are certainly back open. There’s a lot to do
between now and Christmas, so those of us in high-yield are
going to have a pretty busy month.”  ‘Can’t Earn Nothing’  The average yield on junk debt of 8.04 percent compares
with the 4.01 percent on investment-grade bonds and 1.7 percent
on  Treasury notes , Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. The asset class has returned 13.6 percent this year,
beating the 9.5 percent on higher-rated corporate and 6.9
percent on U.S. government debt.  “There’s a lack of alternatives,” said Ehret, who’s based
in Houston. “You can’t earn nothing forever. Just try running
an insurance company or pension fund earning nothing.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own global company bonds instead of similar-maturity
government debt was unchanged at 176 basis points, after
reaching a 12-week high of 177 on Nov. 30, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index.
Yields averaged 3.84 percent.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. climbed after a Labor Department report showed unemployment
unexpectedly jumped. The Markit CDX North America Investment
Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.2 basis point to a mid-price of 92.6 basis points as of 9:39
a.m. in New York, according to index administrator Markit Group
Ltd.  Unemployment Rate Climbs  The  jobless rate  rose to 9.8 percent, the highest since
April, while hours worked and earnings stagnated, the Labor
Department said today in Washington. Payrolls increased 39,000,
less than the most pessimistic projection of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Sales of junk bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by S&P, have reached $3.9 billion
this week, compared with $1.56 billion in the period ended Nov.
26, which was the least since the five days ended Sept. 3,
Bloomberg data show.  Junk’s Record Year  Speculative-grade issuance, which surpassed the annual
record in September, has reached $269 billion this year,
Bloomberg data show. Borrowers sold $73.1 billion of the debt in
September and October, the most in a two-month period.  “The risk trade is already showing signs of coming back,”
said  Bonnie Baha , head of the global developed credit group at
DoubleLine Capital LP, which manages $6.8 billion in Los
Angeles. “If you were going to see another bout of wholesale
contagion, it would be affecting lower-quality issues in a more
serious way, and we’re not seeing that.”  As concern about the euro-region fiscal crisis abated in
Europe, investors turned their attention to U.S. reports.
Pending sales of existing houses jumped following a 1.8 percent
drop in September, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday. Overall, retail sales at the more than 30 chains
tracked by Retail Metrics, led by Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and
J.C. Penney Co., surpassed estimates last month. Sales rose 5.3
percent for a 14th straight gain, compared with a prediction of
3.5 percent.  Europe Slower  Overall corporate bond sales this week of $20.6 billion,
including $16.6 billion of investment-grade issuance, compare
with $2.9 billion in the prior period, the slowest five days
since May, Bloomberg data show.  In Europe, investment-grade bond sales fell to the lowest
in almost a decade this week. Issuance plummeted 80 percent to
1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion), the least outside of a holiday
period since Dec. 17, 2000, Bloomberg data show. Dong Energy AS,
Denmark’s biggest power generator, terminated its offer to buy
back hybrid capital bonds and postponed a plan to issue new
hybrid securities citing volatile market conditions.  “It’s been a tug-of-war between news coming out stronger
on the U.S. front and weaker news on the European front,” said
 Rajeev Sharma , a money manager at First Investors Management in
New York who helps oversee $1.5 billion of investment-grade
credit.  ILFC,  American International Group Inc. ’s aircraft-leasing
unit, sold $1 billion of 8.25 percent 10-year notes in its third
bond offering this year, Bloomberg data show.  Clearwire Sells Debt  Clearwire Corp. , the Kirkland, Washington-based high-speed
wireless network carrier 54-percent owned by Sprint Nextel
Corp., sold $675 million of debt after saying last month it may
not have enough funding to keep operating. S&P  rates the  company
CCC.  The company issued $175 million of first-priority senior
secured notes due December 2015 and $500 million of second-
priority secured debt due December 2017, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Clearwire sold the debt after disclosing in a Nov. 4 filing
that continued losses and funding uncertainty “raises
substantial doubt about our ability to continue.” A default
could trigger a contract provision pulling Sprint, the third-
largest U.S. mobile phone carrier, into default as well.  “Those lower-rated deals are getting a little more
traction than they got six months ago,” said  Andrew Feltus , a
money manager at Pioneer Investment Management Inc. in Boston
whose $2.8 billion  Pioneer High Yield Fund  has outperformed 91
percent of its peers in 2010, Bloomberg data show. “It’s just a
little more life for the CCC type paper.”  Pulled Deals  High-yield volume has also been driven by a power shift to
investors from borrowers, after  Performance Food Group Co.  and
Bain Capital LLC’s  Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse  were among
at least seven canceled offerings last week.  “The buy side has a little bit of an advantage now given
what’s happened in the past few weeks in global markets,” said
 Sabur Moini , a money manager who oversees $1.7 billion of high-
yield debt at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles. “People seem more
keen on playing the markets now than they did in the past three
weeks.”  Hindalco Industries Ltd. unit  Novelis Inc. , Skillman, New
Jersey-based ConvaTec Inc. and at least a dozen other high-yield
companies are planning as much as $8.5 billion of debt sales,
Bloomberg data show.  “You buy a risky asset class, you’re going to get
corrections,” said Feltus, referring to last week’s drop in
junk sales. “The question is ‘are they being driven by what’s
going on in the market or external influences?’ As long as it’s
external influences, you expect to see that market bounce back,
which we have in the last 48 hours.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sapna Maheshwari  in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
 Tim Catts  in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  