-- Kenyan Shilling Gains for 2nd Day to Dollar, Takes Weekly Advance to 0.5%
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2010-12-03T13:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/kenya-shilling-pares-earlier-losses-to-dollar-taking-weekly-gain-to-0-3-.html
Kenya’s shilling strengthened for a
second day versus the dollar, taking its advance this week to
0.5 percent.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy traded 0.2
percent stronger at 80.38 per dollar at 4:06 p.m. in Nairobi
from a close of 80.55 yesterday.  “The market is quiet and is expected to remain choppy due
to low liquidity, as businesses slow down due to the festive
season,”  Bethuel Karanja , head of trading at Nairobi-based CFC
Stanbic Bank Ltd., said in a telephone interview today.  Kenya’s economy will probably expand by 5.3 percent next
year and growth may reach 6 percent if there aren’t any
“shocks”, World Bank country director Johannes Zutt said
yesterday. That’s higher than the 5 percent forecast announced
on June 3.  Frontier-market  stocks rose after the European Central Bank
said policy makers will continue offering banks unlimited loans
through the first quarter to stem the spread of the region’s
sovereign debt crisis.  Pending sales of U.S. existing houses jumped by a record 10
percent in October, compared with a median estimate by 40
economists surveyed by Bloomberg for a 1 percent drop, raising
speculation a recovery in the world’s biggest economy will drive
demand for developing nations’ exports. Separate reports showed
claims for jobless benefits over the past month on average
dropped to a two-year low, and that November chain-store sales
exceeded estimates.  “The World Bank’s higher growth expectation is not
expected to have an immediate bearing on shilling performance
but in the medium to long term, the higher growth projection
will boost the shilling,” Karanja said. “The U.S.’s economic
performance will in the medium term lead to more remittances
which will strengthen the shilling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johnstone Ole Turana  in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 