-- King Follows Osborne Pay Policy With Two-Year Freeze on Pay
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-12-03T12:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/king-signs-up-to-osborne-s-pay-policy-with-two-year-bank-of-england-freeze.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
froze his employees’ salaries to match the government’s policy
on public-sector pay, raising the prospect of staff defections.  The London-based central bank will follow Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne ’s policy to halt wage increases for the
next two fiscal years, according to a Bank of England official.
Osborne announced June 22 that pay won’t rise for public-sector
employees earning more than 21,000 pounds ($33,000).  “King would have been keen to move in lockstep with what
was announced,”  Colin Ellis , a former Bank of England official
who is now chief economist at the British Venture Capital
Association, said in an interview. Still, “the bank started to
lose some really good, high-level people in recent years, and
clearly this is going to make life harder for them.”  Osborne unveiled his pay policy in an emergency budget to
help cut Britain’s record peacetime  deficit . The bank’s
announcement on salaries coincides with a week of media focus on
the governor, including WikiLeaks’s publication of a
confidential U.S. diplomatic cable citing his concern on
Osborne’s and Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s inexperience.  The Bank of England official said that as part of the
public sector, the bank will freeze pay and that it was right
that the bank respects public policy.  Unite, a labor union representing the bank’s staff, “is
against the concept and reality of pay freezes,” Marie Scott,
its regional officer for the central bank, said in an e-mail.
“Our members at the Bank of England do not receive the ‘fat
cat’ salaries associated with the City.”  Brain Drain  Four heads of division at the Bank of England left in the
past six months, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who didn’t want to be identified because they aren’t authorized
to speak to journalists. That’s a grade below King’s executive
team. There are about two dozen of such officials, according to
a graphic of the bank’s management structure  on its website .  Highlighting the brain drain,  Jens Larsen , a former head of
the macro-financial analysis division, joined RBC Capital
Markets as chief European economist in London in September after
12 years at the central bank. He had spent two years
representing the U.K. on the executive board of the
International Monetary Fund.  The Bank of England has in the past struggled to keep
economists because of the higher pay available in the financial
services industry. The bank’s directors said in the 2007 annual
report that there had been “some concern” about rising
resignations and vacancies in the monetary analysis and
financial stability areas.  King refused a salary increase this year, according to the
central bank’s annual report published in June. He took a 2.5
percent raise to 305,368 pounds including benefits on July 1,
2009. The governor already refused a revamped salary package
when he was reappointed in 2008 which would have increased his
basic pay to at least 375,000 pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jennifer Ryan  in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  