-- KWV Shareholder Rejects Pioneer Food Group's Takeover Offer as `Derisory'
-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-03T15:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/kwv-shareholder-rejects-pioneer-food-group-s-takeover-offer-as-derisory-.html
Pioneer Food Group Ltd. ’s 828
million-rand ($120 million) takeover offer for KWV Holdings Ltd.
is “derisory” and undervalues South Africa’s second-largest
wine and spirits company, said  Chris Logan , a KWV shareholder.  The 12-rand a share offer “is a joke” because KWV’s
 accounts  for the fiscal year through June gave the company a net
asset value of 18.69 rand a share, he said in a telephone
interview from Cape Town today, adding that he holds proxy votes
from investors to vote against the deal. He declined to say how
many shares he holds or what shareholders he represents.  Pioneer Foods, South Africa’s third-largest food producer,
wants to buy 92 year-old Paarl, Western Cape-based KWV to
diversify earnings and use its distribution network in the
country to increase sales of KWV’s top wine brands. A quarter of
the transaction will be settled with Pioneer shares. The deal
needs support of 75 percent of KWV’s shareholders.  “That 12 rand is not an offer,”  Danie de Wet , a former
KWV chairman and one of its top 20 shareholders, said in an
interview from Robertson, Western Cape. “It’s unacceptable.”  KWV’s shares trade through brokers and last sold for 12.40
rand, according to the company’s  website .  It’s a “fair price,”  Zeder Investments Ltd.  Chief
Executive Officer  Antonie Jacobs  said. Zeder owns about 36
percent of KWV and about 42 percent of Kaap Agri Ltd., an
agricultural-services company that owns 28 percent of Pioneer.
“I must still take it to my committee and there must still be a
circular but that is my personal view.”  ‘Means Nothing’  PSG Group Services Ltd. holds 41 percent of Zeder. PSG
Chief Executive Officer  Jannie Mouton  is a board member of
Zeder, Pioneer and KWV. KWV Chairman Thys du Toit is also the
managing director of KWV shareholder Rootstock Investment
Management and sits on the board of Pioneer and PSG Group.  “If it’s acceptable to Zeder it means nothing because the
majority shareholder in  Pioneer  is the majority shareholder or
Zeder,” said De Wet.  The board of KWV “is acting in the best interest of all
its stakeholders,” Du Toit said in a statement posted on its
website. “A fair and transparent process, that adheres to the
best corporate governance practices, is the best way to ensure
that all stakeholders will be considered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  