-- New England Jets Fans Use Wall Street Intensity to Show Their Inner Namath
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2010-12-03T13:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/new-england-jets-fans-use-wall-street-intensity-to-show-their-inner-namath.html
Pete Mulieri is an ex-New Yorker and
now a stockbroker at Investment Technology Group in Boston, who
walks his dog on a New York Jets leash and wears a Jets jersey
to provoke New England Patriots fans.  “I do rub it in,” said Mulieri, 52, who also invites
Patriots fans into his Hingham, Massachusetts, home to gaze upon
a hand-painted  Joe Namath  mural and other mementoes.  He’ll be tailgating in his green-and-white Jets cap when
the teams that share the best record in the National Football
League clash at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts,
on Dec. 6.  Mulieri is part of a contrarian football cluster: Jets
diehards who live in New England -- or, as Flushing, New York,
expatriate and software services manager Paul Leone, 47,
describes it, “in the belly of the beast.”  Forty-one years after Namath led the Jets to their lone
Super Bowl title, these fans say this season may end the
drought. The “Monday Night Football” telecast on Walt Disney
Co.’s ESPN is the next step; the teams are tied atop the
American Football Conference East at 9-2 with five regular-
season games to go.  “I’m all fired up behind enemy lines,” said Mike
Steadman, 40, a Lynnfield, Massachusetts, planner with
Ameriprise Financial. He grew up in Port Washington on Long
Island.  For this game, Steadman will wear a No. 24 Jets jersey, for
cornerback  Darrelle Revis , as he sits alone in front of the
television in his basement shrine to New York sports. His wife
watches on a set upstairs.  “A game this big, I have to be alone,” he said.  Changed Attitude  The winner of this contest moves closer to claiming the AFC
title and home-field advantage in the playoffs. That’s not the
reason his pro-Patriots neighbors and friends are treating the
matchup like the game of the year, Steadman said.  “Never before have they thought we could beat them, and
they were right to think that,” he said. “It’s very similar to
when the Yankees fans realized they could lose to the Red Sox,
and I think that’s exactly like this moment now.”  The Patriots have been to four Super Bowls in the last
decade, winning three. The Jets haven’t finished the regular
season with a better record than the Patriots since 2000.  “I hate Pats’ fans because they don’t remember the times
they were losing,” said Rick Kozan, a 37-year-old textbook
salesman who grew up in Setauket, Long Island, and now lives in
Boston’s South End. “There’s an amazing arrogance.”  Coaches Conflicts  There’s also a history of off-field conflict between the
franchises, often involving coaches.  In the 2007 “Spygate” scandal, Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  was fined $500,000 and the team $250,000 for the
videotaping of Jets’ defensive coaches signals during a game
early in the season. Jets fans began calling the Patriots’ boss
“Belicheat.” The Jets’ coach at the time,  Eric Mangini , left
the Patriots’ staff to join the Jets, and the two barely shook
hands after their next game.  Belichick, 58, was the Jets coach in 2000 -- for one day.
He was promoted from assistant head coach to succeed  Bill Parcells , then abruptly quit with a note on a piece of loose-
leaf paper: “I resign as HC of NYJ.” He then was hired to
coach the Patriots.  Parcells had joined the Jets in 1997 after leading the
Patriots to a Super Bowl berth. He quit in a dispute with New
England owner  Robert Kraft  over player personnel decisions.
“They want you to cook the dinner, at least they ought to let
you shop for some of the groceries, OK?” Parcells told
reporters.  Red Sox-Yankees  Relations might improve if Boston fans realized their 86
years without a Red Sox championship gives them something in
common with Jets fans and the decades of mediocrity they’ve
endured, said Brandon Leitner, a commercial real-estate broker
who came to Boston 10 years ago.  “Not only were the Jets letting us down just like the Red
Sox let down Boston,” said Leitner, 28. “But we’ve had to
watch the Patriots have absolute dominance over us for a
decade.”  Matt Howard , a 43-year-old bond broker at Garban-
Intercapital in Jersey City, New Jersey, has enjoyed that
dominance in the New York area. A native of Shrewsbury,
Massachusetts, Howard has been a Pats’ fan in his enemy’s
territory for 16 years.  “Us Bostonians down here like to rant and rave also,” he
said in a telephone interview.  “That’s the key when you play
against the Jets or any New York team. You sit there quiet and
they’ll walk all over you.”  Back in Boston, Erik Ferjentsik, a 30-year-old marketing
director for the Princeton Review who moved to the city in May,
has found some like-minded souls in the city’s Allston section.
About 30 Jets fan gather at the Joshua Tree Bar & Grille -- a
“ meetup ” for transplants -- for games. After each touchdown
they serenade the city with the team’s chant: “J-e-t-s! Jets!
Jets! Jets!  ‘‘We’re very loud and obnoxious like New Yorkers should
be,’’ he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  