-- Nigeria Stocks Measure Snaps Six-Day Gain, Awaiting Start of Amcon Funding
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2010-12-03T14:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/nigeria-stocks-measure-snaps-six-day-gain-awaiting-start-of-amcon-funding.html
Nigeria’s benchmark stocks measure
fell for the first day in seven as investors awaited the funding
plans of a government-owned company set up to buy bad debts from
the country’s lenders, an analyst said.  The 214-member  All-Share Index  dropped 0.5 percent to
24,807.04 by 12:30 p.m. in Lagos, according to data from the
bourse’s website. Declines were led by  First Bank of Nigeria
Plc , the nation’s second-biggest lender by market value.  Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, will sell 2.5
trillion naira of three-year, zero-coupon bonds to finance the
purchase of toxic debts from  banks , managing director Mustafa
Chike-Obi said Dec.1. The first tranche of the bonds will be
sold by Dec. 31, he said.  “The fact that Amcon first has to mobilize funds from the
sale of the bonds means that investors want to wait and see what
will happen,” Chinenyem Anyanwu, chief executive officer of
Dependable Securities Ltd., a Lagos-based brokerage, said by
phone today. “They want to put their money into other
investment alternatives including treasury bills and bonds now
because it’s about the time value of money.”  Nigeria’s 91-day treasury bill had an average yield of
7.9027 percent at an auction of the securities last month.  The debt purchases will help the banking system, which
almost collapsed in 2008 after extending loans to investors in
the stock market, to resume lending to companies and revive
economic growth. The Central Bank of Nigeria fired the chief
executive officers of eight lenders last year and bailed out the
industry with $4.1 billion.  The market will determine the value of the zero-coupon
bonds and therefore how much Amcon raises in funds, Chike-Obi
said. The central bank said in a statement on Nov. 9 that Amcon
would buy 2.2 trillion naira of bad debts from the banks, more
than a previous forecast of $10 billion naira.  First Bank lost 3.3 percent, to 12.52 naira, its lowest
since Nov.8.  Guaranty Trust Bank Plc , the third-biggest lender,
lost 2.7 percent, the steepest drop since Nov. 12, to 16 naira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Vincent Nwanma  in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 