-- Noda Says Still Deliberating Whether to Uphold 50% Pension Contribution
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2010-12-03T03:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/noda-says-still-deliberating-whether-to-uphold-50-pension-contribution.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said the government hasn’t decided to maintain its 50
percent pension obligation next year after media reports said it
has secured funds to meet the payouts.  “It’s difficult” to secure the 2.5 trillion yen ($30
billion) needed to uphold the government’s contribution, Noda
told reporters in Tokyo today. The payout was increased from a
third in fiscal 2009 under the previous Liberal Democratic
Party-led administration.  A rising public  debt burden  and falling tax revenue is
making it harder for the government to fund a pension system in
one of the world’s fastest aging populations. Politicians have
been using untapped budget funds to meet its obligations for the
past two years and the shortage puts more pressure on them to
find a more sustainable solution, including tax increases.  “We’re not at a stage where we can conduct a fundamental
change in the tax system to uphold” the contribution, Noda said.
He also said the government doesn’t plan to issue bonds to keep
the promise and that the Finance Ministry is still deliberating
the issue with the Health Ministry, which oversees pensions.  Economy Minister  Banri Kaieda  said the government wants to
maintain the 50 percent contribution next year. Ruling party and
government officials have decided that the obligation will be
funded by unused transportation funds, Kyodo News reported,
without citing where it obtained the information. Local media
have reported that the finance ministry had proposed lowering
the contribution for one year and restoring it to 50 percent the
following year.  Backtracking on the obligations could result in increased
premiums for individuals and also demonstrates the government’s
difficulty in upholding social security benefits while
maintaining its pledge to cap budget spending for three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Toru Fujioka  in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  