-- Northrop Said to Be in Talks With U.S. Navy on Costs in Ship-Unit Spinoff
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2010-12-03T21:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/northrop-said-to-be-in-talks-with-u-s-navy-on-costs-in-ship-unit-spinoff.html
The U.S. Navy is asking  Northrop
Grumman Corp.  to provide enough financial backing to the
shipbuilding unit it plans to spin off so taxpayers aren’t stuck
with pension and cleanup costs, two people familiar with the
talks said.  The Defense Department and Chief Executive Officer  Wes Bush 
are in discussions on how to value the new company to match its
assets with future liabilities, said one of the people, who
asked not to be identified because details are private.  Northrop, the Navy’s largest shipbuilder, said in July it
might exit the business to focus on defense electronics, drones
and surveillance technology. The Los Angeles-based company opted
for a spinoff over a sale after getting bids from private-equity
firms, people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Pensions and other post-retirement obligations for the ship
division would have been $918 million had it been separated on
Sept. 30, Northrop said in a  regulatory filing  on Nov. 24. The
Navy also is concerned that a Northrop shipyard in Louisiana
targeted for shutdown may require an environmental cleanup, the
people familiar with the Pentagon talks said.  The financial strength of a stand-alone company is
important because the Navy wants to ensure that unmet  pension
liabilities  and unforeseen cleanup expenses don’t boost future
ship prices, according to a government official who is one of
the people familiar with the negotiations.  Ship Guarantee  Northrop needs the Navy’s assent in a spinoff because the
parent company put up surety bonds guaranteeing the ship unit’s
performance, said the other person familiar with the talks. The
Navy must concur with transferring the guarantee to a stand-
alone business, the person said. Bush has set a deadline to
complete the spinoff by the first quarter, the person said.  Assistant Navy Secretary  Sean Stackley , the service’s top
weapons buyer, confirmed that talks were under way with Northrop
about the spinoff while declining to specify what they entailed.  Northrop has “not addressed all the Navy’s concerns to
this point,” Stackley said yesterday in an e-mail. “We are
requiring further detail to complete a thorough assessment of
their way ahead.” The discussions are “influencing contract
negotiations” on future ship work, he added.  Chief Financial Officer  Jim Palmer  declined to comment on
the discussions beyond saying that talks were continuing. The
new company’s liabilities won’t be known until a spinoff occurs,
and may not match the estimates in the Nov. 24 filing, he said
yesterday in an interview in New York.  Transports, Destroyers  Northrop dropped 82 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $63.21 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange  composite trading . The  shares 
have gained 16 percent since the company said in mid-July it
might exit the shipbuilding business. Lockheed Martin Corp., the
largest defense contractor, fell 7.4 percent in that period.  Northrop now builds LPD-17 class amphibious transports,
DDG-51 destroyers and nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and
submarines. The stand-alone business would be called Huntington
Ingalls Industries Inc., according to the filing. The unit has
about 39,000  employees , and  2010 sales  as a separate company
through September would have been $4.99 billion, Northrop said.  Bush said in July that Northrop intended to wind down
operations by 2013 at the Avondale, Louisiana, shipyard where it
builds the transports, and consolidate non-nuclear ship work in
Pascagoula, Mississippi. Aircraft-carrier and submarine
construction would continue in Newport News, Virginia, he said.  The Avondale yard, which has been in operation since 1938,
is the facility spurring Navy officials to raise questions about
cleanup costs in the talks with Northrop, the people familiar
with the negotiations said.  Repair Costs  Northrop expects to find buyers for the Avondale yard,
including non-shipbuilders, according to last month’s filing.
“It is possible that the winding down of operations at Avondale
may result in environmental costs,” the company said.
“However, these costs are not known and cannot be reasonably
estimated at this time.”  Separately, Northrop is continuing negotiations with the
Navy on how to share costs of as much as $39 million to fix the
San Antonio, the first ship in the LPD-17 class, CFO Palmer said
at the Credit Suisse-Aviation Week Aerospace & Defense Finance
conference in New York yesterday.  The ship has been undergoing repairs in the Navy’s Norfolk,
Virginia, yard since December to make it seaworthy next year,
and the bill has grown to $39 million from an initial estimate
of $5 million, the Navy said Oct. 28.  It is not clear “where the responsibilities lie,” Palmer
said. The Navy and the company are discussing whether the
repairs stemmed from design issues or other causes, he said.  Northrop’s Avondale yard has delivered five of the 11
planned San Antonio-class vessels in the $18.5 billion program,.
Four more are under construction, and contracts for the last
vessels haven’t been signed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Gopal Ratnam  in New York at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony Capaccio  in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  