-- Obama Tells Troops They're Succeeding in Afghan War During Surprise Visit
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2010-12-03T22:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/obama-arrives-in-afghanistan-on-unannounced-visit-for-talks-with-karzai.html
President  Barack Obama  made a
surprise visit to U.S. troops in Afghanistan and promised them
unstinting support for their mission as he prepares to review
his strategy for the war, which is now in its 10th year.  Obama, who announced a revised Afghan War plan one year ago
this week, secretly flew through the night from Washington and
arrived in darkness at  Bagram Airfield , north of Kabul. The
president met with U.S. military and civilian officials and
visited wounded troops at a base hospital.  “We will never let this country serve as a safe haven for
terrorists who would attack the United States of America
again,” Obama told 3,850 military personnel from the Army, the
Navy, the Air Force and the Marine Corps inside a hangar at the
base. “We will do whatever it takes to make sure that you have
the strategy and the resources and the equipment and the
leadership to get this done.”  A planned side trip to see Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  in
Kabul was scrapped because high winds and low visibility in the
mountain passes between Bagram and the capital made the
helicopter trip too risky, White House officials said. The two
spoke for about 15 minutes by telephone instead.  The U.S. president plans to announce during the week of
Dec. 13 the outcome of an administration review of the Afghan
war strategy he outlined a year ago. Under the current plan,
U.S. forces would begin handing over some territory to Afghan
control in 2011. The goal, as outlined by the U.S. military and
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, is for Afghan forces to
fully take over by 2014.  Strategy Review  Ben Rhodes , deputy national security adviser, told
reporters traveling with the president that the trip wasn’t tied
to the strategy review, which isn’t intended to lead to any
overhaul of policy.  “This is a process that is diagnostic in nature,” Rhodes
said of the review. It “will assess that strategy and review
the need for any adjustments.”  This was Obama’s second visit to Afghanistan since taking
office. He was last in the country in March. He was greeted upon
arrival by Army General  David Petraeus , the commander of allied
forces in Afghanistan, and U.S. Ambassador  Karl Eikenberry . He
also stopped by a base hospital and awarded five Purple Heart
medals.  Rhodes said the administration isn’t concerned that the
meeting with Karzai was canceled, since the two leaders met Nov.
20 at the NATO summit in Lisbon and there was no “major piece
of business” to finish. Many of the agreements that the U.S.
was seeking on transition and long-term partnerships were dealt
with during the NATO meeting, he said.  Obama’s Priorities  Many Afghans will conclude that meeting with Karzai wasn’t
really part of the president’s agenda, said Ahmad Saeedi, a
Kabul-based independent political analyst and former Afghan
diplomat.  “We all see that the weather conditions are pretty good”
in Kabul, Saeedi said in a telephone interview. “He came to
make a speech in front of his soldiers. That is the priority.”  The trip comes amid tensions with Karzai and conflicting
reports about the progress of the U.S.-led campaign to reverse
Taliban gains in Afghanistan.  A Pentagon report released in November characterized the
results of the battle against the Taliban as “uneven.” It said
the Taliban has been able to adapt and regroup as the U.S. and
its partners pumped in additional troops over the last year.  Modest Gains  The report cited “modest gains in security, governance and
development” in high-priority areas and said Karzai’s progress
against government corruption “remains uneven and
incremental.”  Karzai has been critical of U.S. and allied military
tactics that he said threaten to turn civilians against the
government, such as night raids conducted by special operations
forces.  Administration officials have said that such raids are key
components of larger military operations, and Obama has said
military leaders will “balance the issues of being sensitive to
our footprint with the need to get certain objectives done.”  In addition, confidential diplomatic cables obtained by
WikiLeaks and made available to the New York Times and other
publications underscored the U.S. challenge in combating
corruption in Afghanistan.  American officials point to the top reaches of
Afghanistan’s government, the  Times reported , citing an August
2009 report from Kabul that said Karzai and his attorney general
“allowed dangerous individuals to go free or re-enter the
battlefield without ever facing an Afghan court.”  Old Challenges  “The challenges on either the security side or the
government side are not new, and they’re certainly not
unknown,” White House press secretary  Robert Gibbs  said.  Lieutenant General  Douglas Lute , Obama’s coordinator for
Afghanistan policy, said the topics of corruption within the
Afghan government and the cables disclosed by Wikileaks didn’t
come up in the conversation between the two leaders.  He and Rhodes told reporters on Air Force One on the return
trip to Washington that the issue of the cables had previously
been dealt with between Afghan and U.S. officials.  The main purpose of the trip was to thank U.S. troops for
their service, Rhodes said.  In his address to U.S. forces at Bagram, Obama said that
while there are debates in the U.S. over domestic politics, the
nation is united on giving them the support they need for their
mission.  “I can say without hesitation that there is no division on
one thing, no hesitation on one thing, and that is the uniform
support of our men and women who are serving in the armed
service,” he said.  Reaction to Address  Soldiers interviewed after Obama spoke said they
appreciated the president’s promise of support.  “It’s incredibly powerful to see the president any time,
and it’s that much more special here in Afghanistan, the fact
that he made the time to come and see us,” said Army Lieutenant
Colonel Eric Heist of the  101st Airborne Division .  The trip had been in the works for over a month, Rhodes
said, and was shrouded in secrecy because of security concerns.
The blinds on Air Force One remained shut the entire 13-hour
flight due to security.  The last-minute schedule change came as a surprise to the
president’s aides and press traveling aboard Air Force One.  Roughly 90 minutes before landing at Bagram, reporters had
gathered around a table in a conference room with Gibbs and
Rhodes to run through the trip schedule. Midway through,  Alyssa Mastromonaco , Obama’s director of scheduling and advance,
interrupted the meeting to warn that bad weather might force a
change of plans.  Shortly thereafter, she came back with a pad of paper with
the Air Force One logo on it and a new schedule written by hand.
Gibbs then read it aloud to the pool of reporters.  “Obviously it would be nice to be able to share a meal
together, but at the same time they were able to meet face to
face less than two weeks ago,” Rhodes said. “President Karzai
understood the purpose of this was really for the president to
spend some time with the troops.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Kabul at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 