-- Crude Oil Heads for Biggest Weekly Gain in a Month on U.S. Economy Outlook
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2010-12-03T07:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/oil-trims-losses-to-trade-near-two-year-high-on-economic-recovery-optimism.html
Oil headed for its biggest weekly
gain in a month on speculation that U.S. fuel demand will
increase as the economic recovery gathers pace in the world’s
biggest oil consumer.  Futures trimmed yesterday’s 1.4 percent rally as traders
sought to profit after the highest close in two years. Crude has
climbed 4.7 percent this week, the most since the period ending
Nov. 5, as data showed U.S. home sales increased and
manufacturing expanded. A Labor Department report today may
indicate the U.S. hired more workers for a second month.  “The market is going to be focused on what happens tonight
with the unemployment number,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney. “Oil is
coming back a little bit because of profit-taking.”  The January contract was at $87.94 a barrel, down 6 cents,
or 0.1 percent, in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange at 3:22 p.m. Singapore time. It closed yesterday at $88
a barrel, the highest since October 2008.  U.S. employers added 150,000 workers last month, a
Bloomberg survey showed before the Labor Department report today.
Data yesterday showed pending sales of U.S. existing houses
unexpectedly jumped by a record 10 percent in October, while
claims for jobless benefits over the past month on average
dropped to a two-year low.  Brent crude for January settlement was at $90.81 a barrel,
up 11 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The contract increased $1.82, or 2 percent, to end the session
yesterday at $90.69, the highest close since Oct. 1, 2008.  Brent Backwardation  Brent crude for next month is trading at a 3-cent premium
to the February future, a market situation known as
backwardation that suggest prompt supplies are more in demand
than later deliveries.  Demand for European crude has increased as declining
temperatures in the region boost heating oil consumption. The
premium of gasoil, another term for the fuel, climbed to $11.61
above Brent crude, from $10.81 yesterday, according to ICE data.  “The falling temperatures and the snowing in Europe is a
factor in creating stronger crack spreads,” said  Ken Hasegawa ,
a commodity derivatives sales manager at broker Newedge in Tokyo.
“That’s creating local demand for crude.”  Oil analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News were split over the
direction of crude oil prices next week. Ten of 28 analysts, or
36 percent, forecast crude will advance through Dec. 10. Ten
more respondents predicted that futures will be steady. Eight
said there will be a decline.  Gasoline Surge  Oil also rose this week as gasoline prices in New York
surged amid declining stockpiles in the U.S. Northeast.
Inventories along the East Coast fell 1.8 percent last week, an
Energy Department report showed yesterday. Irving Oil Corp. said
it shut a unit at its Saint John refinery in New Brunswick that
supplies New York, the delivery point for the Nymex contract.  Gasoline for January delivery was at $2.3479 a gallon,
down .74 cents. The contract yesterday gained 2.4 percent to the
highest settlement since May 3. It has risen 6.1 percent this
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
 Ben Sharples  in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  