-- London Luxury-Home Values Climb as Purchasers From Euro Region Seek Haven
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2010-12-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/london-luxury-home-values-climb-as-buyers-from-euro-region-seek-safe-haven.html
London luxury-home values rose in
November for the first time in five months as the debt crisis in
the euro region prompted more buyers to compete for a dwindling
number of homes for sale,  Knight Frank LLP  said.  Prices of houses and apartments costing at least 1 million
pounds ($1.6 million) rose 0.9 percent from October, the London-
based property broker said in a statement today. The annual gain
was 11 percent, the smallest since January.  “There’s a belief that London is impregnable,” said
Jeremy McGivern, a founder of  Mercury Home Search . “The euro
zone represents a big percentage of the overseas buyers,” said
McGivern, who advises the wealthy on buying homes in central
London.  Continental Europeans seeking a home in central London
increased by 23 percent from a year ago, led by investors from
Italy and Spain, Knight Frank estimates. Many of them regard
London as a “safe haven,” according to  Liam Bailey , the head
of residential research.  On Nov. 29, Ireland became the second country in the euro
region after Greece to get a bailout from the European Union to
rescue its banks and bolster state finances. The EU sought to
prevent a debt crisis from spreading to other countries that use
the single currency.  Knightsbridge Sale  Rupert des Forges, a partner in Knight Frank’s
 Knightsbridge  sales office, said he sold an apartment near
Harrods department store last month for 14 percent more than the
asking price. The 1,043 square-foot (96 square-meter) property,
which is in need of modernization, went for 2 million pounds.  One of the five unsuccessful bidders for the property,
south of Hyde Park, was an Italian family that since July has
purchased 10 properties in the city, Des Forges said. He
declined to name the family or the other would-be buyers.  “Wealthy families and funds take the view that prime
central London is a gold-standard investment,” he said. “It’s
a defensive position that provides a hedge for the euro going
wrong.”  The  pound’s slide  against other currencies since the
financial crisis escalated in September 2007 added to the
attraction of London homes to overseas buyers after a 25 percent
decline in prime residential property values.  Overseas Buyers  Purchasers from outside the U.K. account for about 60
percent of luxury property transactions in central London,
Knight Frank estimates. For those based in the euro region,
prices are 14 percent below the peak of two years ago.  Des Forges said that the number of buyers in November
totaled 20 to 30 from each of the euro-region countries. “It’s
a micro market, but their impact is significant,” he said.  A shrinking supply of luxury homes on the market
contributed to last month’s price increase. In three of the most
popular London neighborhoods -- Belgravia, Chelsea and
Knightsbridge -- the number of properties for sale has dropped
by 32 percent from a year ago, Knight Frank said.  Overall, the volume of luxury-property sales is about half
the average of 2003 to 2006, according to  Property Vision , a
unit of HSBC Private Bank that advises the lender’s wealthy
customers on buying a home.  “Supply is very tight,” said Charlie Ellingworth, one of
London-based Property Vision’s founders.  Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes index from estimated
values of properties in the Mayfair, St. John’s Wood, Regent’s
Park, Kensington, Notting Hill, Chelsea, Knightsbridge,
Belgravia and South Bank neighborhoods of London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simon Packard  in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 