-- Hong Kong's Fall, Led by China Banks on Outlook for Further Tightening
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2010-12-03T09:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/hong-kong-s-fall-led-by-china-banks-on-outlook-for-further-tightening.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell for the first
time in three days, as China-based banks declined on concern the
government will introduce further measures to contain inflation,
and as coal producers extended their retreat.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s No.
1 lender by market value, declined 1 percent, while  China
Construction Bank Corp. , the No. 2, slid 1.5 percent,
overshadowing earlier gains by exporters. China Shenhua Energy
Co., the nation’s largest coal producer, and China Coal Energy
Co., the No. 2, retreated at least 2.7 percent, extending
yesterday’s declines after Xinhua News Agency reported China
ordered a freeze in thermal-coal prices.  “Continued concern about China’s tightening measures will
keep investors on the sideline,” said  Ben Kwong , chief
operating officer at KGI Asia Ltd. “The upside will be
limited.”  The  Hang Seng Index  dropped 0.6 percent to 23,320.52 at the
close, after gaining as much as 0.7 percent. It rose 1.9 percent
for the week, the first weekly gain since the period ended Nov.
5. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of so-called H shares
of Chinese companies retreated 1.2 percent to 12,937.10.  China-based banks and property developers declined after
the International Monetary Fund’s study recommended an increase
in China’s interest rates and a property tax to curb the risk of
asset bubbles.  ICBC dropped 1 percent to HK$5.98, while China Construction
Bank slid 1.5 percent to HK$7.10, the biggest drag on the Hang
Seng Index.  Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s fourth-largest
lender by market value, lost 1.2 percent to HK$4.23.  Banks, Developers Fall  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. , controlled by the
construction ministry, dropped 1.3 percent to HK$15.06, while
China Resources Land Ltd., a state-controlled developer, slipped
1.3 percent to HK$14.12.  The stocks also extended declines in the afternoon after
the state-run Xinhua News Agency said today China’s officials
“will adopt proactive fiscal policies and prudent monetary
policies.”  China Shenhua Energy retreated 3 percent to HK$30.65, while
 China Coal Energy  slid 2.7 percent to HK$11.72, extending
yesterday’s declines after the Xinhua News Agency reported on
Dec. 1 the government ordered a freeze in 2011 contract prices
for coal used in power stations.  Coal Tax  Separately, the Securities Times reported China will expand
its resource tax reform to the whole nation in the next five
years, citing Zhou Chuanhua, a department head at the Finance
Ministry’s tax administration division. Coal and water will be
covered in the resource tax as well, the report said.  The  Hang Seng Index  has surged 7.2 percent this year
through yesterday, on expectations that growth in corporate
earnings will overcome concerns about the pace of the U.S.
economic recovery and China’s steps to curb rising property
prices. Shares in the gauge trade at an average 14.7 times
 estimated earnings , compared with about 17.2 times at the start
of the year.  While China-based banks and developers fell, some exporters
gained as U.S. housing and retail sales and the European Central
Bank’s extension of an emergency loan boosted confidence demand
from the region will recover.  Techtronic Industries Co. , the maker of Hoover vacuum
cleaners and Ryobi power tools that made 76 percent of its
revenue in North America last fiscal year, rose 5.8 percent to
HK$9.11. Foxconn International Holdings Ltd., the world’s
largest contract maker of electronics, advanced 0.6 percent to
HK$5.52. Esprit Holdings Ltd., a global fashion retailer, rose
0.9 percent to HK$38.50.  U.S. Data, Europe  Pending sales of U.S. existing houses jumped by a record 10
percent in October, the National Association of Realtors said
yesterday. That compares with a median estimate by 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg for a 1 percent drop. Separate reports
showed claims for jobless benefits over the past month on
average dropped to a two-year low, and that November chain-store
sales exceeded estimates.  European Central Bank policy makers meeting in Frankfurt
yesterday delayed the bank’s exit from emergency liquidity
measures as a sovereign-debt crisis threatens to engulf Portugal
and Spain.  “Market sentiment is stabilizing because of positive signs
from the U.S. economic data and subsiding fears about the
European debt crisis,” said KGI Asia’s Kwong.  Almost three stocks fell for every one that rose on the 45-
member Hang Seng Index. Futures on the gauge lost 0.5 percent to
23,270.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kana Nishizawa  in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 