-- Total Buys North Sea Forties Crude Oil; Statoil to Start Gullfaks Drilling
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-03T17:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/total-buys-north-sea-forties-crude-oil-statoil-to-start-gullfaks-drilling.html
Total SA bought a cargo of North Sea
Forties crude from Statoil ASA while Trafigura Beheer BV offered
a consignment without completing any deals.  Total said it purchased the Dec. 21 to Dec. 23 shipment at
a 15-cent discount to Dated Brent benchmark. Trafigura offered a
cargo loading on Dec. 24 to Dec. 26 at a premium of 15 cents
over Dated, according to traders involved in North Sea
transactions.  Reported North Sea market activity typically occurs during
a trading window that ends daily at 4:30 p.m. in London. Prior
to the window,  Forties  crude loading from 10 to 21 days in the
future cost 20 cents more than Dated Brent, from 7 cents the
previous day. Yesterday was the first time Forties has been at a
premium to Dated since Oct. 6.  Brent crude for January settlement traded at $90.80 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange at the
close of the window, up from $89.55 a barrel at the same time
yesterday. The February contract traded at $90.83 a barrel. The
price spread between the two nearest-term contracts reversed to
3 cents from minus 4 cents yesterday. The front-months were
backwardated yesterday, the first time the contract closest to
expiry was more expensive than the following month since
October.  Statoil, Norway’s biggest oil and gas producer, has decided
to resume drilling and well operations at the Gullfaks field in
the North Sea after halting activity on Nov. 10 to conduct a
safety review.  Statoil carried out a “detailed review” of its planned
drilling and well operations on the field after pressure in a
well on its Gullfaks C platform destabilized on May 19, causing
an evacuation and a two-month production halt, it said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Findings made and measures adopted
after drilling stopped on Nov. 10 have been presented to the
Norwegian Petroleum Safety Authority, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Grant Smith  in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  