-- Palm Oil May Slump by June as Purchasers Delay Buying on Premium, Fry Says
-- B y   C l a i r e   L e o w
-- 2010-12-03T08:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/palm-oil-may-slump-by-june-as-purchasers-delay-buying-on-premium-fry-says.html
Palm oil prices may slump by June as
production recovers and an “exceptionally high” premium over
diesel prompts buyers to delay purchases until mid-2011, LMC
International Ltd. Managing Director  James Fry  said today.  Palm oil futures in Malaysia will fall to 2,600 ringgit
($826) a metric ton, from a 28-month high of 3,537 ringgit
today, as high prices curb demand, Fry said at a conference in
Bali.  “I still expect crude palm oil prices to fall but, in view
of low 2010 output, more slowly than I expected earlier,” Fry
said. “By June, with output rising fast, a reasonable South
American soybean crop should pull the price back to near 2,600
ringgit,” he said.  Palm oil has jumped 55 percent from this year’s low on July
7 as heavy rains caused by the La Nina weather event reduced
yields in Indonesia and Malaysia, which produce about 90 percent
of the world’s supply. La Nina has also caused a drought that
curbed South American planting of soybeans, helping drive
soybean oil prices to a 27-month high last month.  Higher palm oil and soybean oil prices will cause
“biodiesel users to defer purchases till mid-2011 and bring
demand in line with supply,” Fry said.  “A crude price of $115 would be needed to justify a crude
palm oil price of 3,400 ringgit,” Fry said. Crude oil in New
York for January delivery closed at $88 a barrel yesterday. A
premium of $700 a ton for biofuel over diesel in the European
Union may slash biodiesel sales by 3 million tons, Fry said.  “Barring a catastrophe on the supply side, we will soon
see again that the cure for high prices is high prices,” Fry
said.  Backwardation Risk  A backwardation in palm oil prices, when near-term
contracts are more expensive than those for future delivery,
“encourages buyers to defer palm oil imports,” Fry said.
Malaysia’s palm oil exports dropped 0.6 percent from the
previous month to 1.46 million tons in October, according to
data from the country’s Palm Oil Board.  Rising spot prices may erase the  premium  of soybean oil
over palm oil and making the tropical commodity more expensive,
Fry said. This will force “importers to turn more to soy oil
imports,” creating a backwardation in soybean oil, he said. The
soybean oil premium was at $48.63 a ton at 2:17 p.m. in
Singapore.  Production Rally  Indonesia’s palm oil output may grow by about 1.8 million
tons to 22.8 million tons next year,  Derom Bangun , vice chairman
of the Indonesian Palm Oil Board, said in an interview today.  Malaysian production may climb 3.4 percent to 18.4 million
tons next year as yields improve from maturing trees, the
Ministry of Finance said Oct. 15.  Palm oil may extend the current rally to 2,600 ringgit
before January on expectations that global demand will exceed
supply, Godrej International Ltd. Director  Dorab Mistry  said
earlier at the same conference.  “The period of greatest tightness will be between February
and May 2011 and we need prices to rise now in order to rein in
demand and to stimulate plantings,” Mistry, who correctly
predicted in March that prices would exceed 3,000 ringgit ($953)
a ton after June, said at a conference in Bali today.  On Oct. 20, Fry predicted palm oil would drop to 2,500
ringgit a ton by the end of the year, forecasting stockpiles in
Malaysia would be 2.25 million tons. October stockpiles were at
1.79 million tons, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board.  Prices will decline this month, before rallying as much as
300 ringgit a ton from January to April,  Thomas Mielke ,
executive director of Oil World, said in Bali today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Claire Leow  in Singapore at 
 cleow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 