-- Pay of Some London Bankers Gains 20 Percent, Recruiter Says
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2010-12-03T13:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/pay-of-some-london-bankers-gains-20-percent-recruiter-says.html
Investment banks in the U.K.
increased the base pay of some staff on average by about 20
percent in the past year, recruiter  Astbury Marsden  said.  Employees at vice-president level saw their pay rise to
97,500 pounds ($152,470) in the past 12 months, from 81,250
pounds in the previous year, the London-based recruitment firm
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “These pay rises have inevitably meant that there will be
less available in the bonus pot,” said Astbury Marsden managing
director Jonathan Nicholson. “Managers will have to ensure that
staff expectations are realistic.”  Banks including Barclays Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG and
 UBS AG  have increased investment bankers’ base salaries as
a percentage of total pay to comply with Group of 20 nations’
compensation guidelines that discourage bonus guarantees and
permit pay to be clawed back if losses occur later.  “We are already hearing of concern amongst City employers
that their staff may not be fully aware that these salary
increments will have an adverse effect on their annual bonus,”
Nicholson said.  Some staff at the vice-president level may be earning base
pay of more than 160,000 pounds, the recruitment firm said.  Securities firms typically reserve a portion of revenue
throughout the year to pay staff, awarding the bulk of the
funds in year-end bonuses. Credit Suisse cut the amount it set
aside in compensation for investment-banking employees by 20
percent from a year earlier as revenue at the unit fell 27
percent.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley have all cut the funds they set aside by the end of
September to pay bankers and traders, partly due to a business
slowdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ambereen Choudhury  in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  