-- PBOC Adviser Sees Only Slow China Rate Moves as Politburo Switches Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-12-03T11:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/pboc-adviser-sees-gradual-china-rate-rises-after-politburo-s-policy-switch.html
China will raise benchmark interest
rates only slowly and won’t “slam on the brakes” as the nation
officially switches to a tighter monetary policy, said  Li Daokui ,
an academic adviser to the central bank.  The nation will move next year to a “prudent” policy from
the current “moderately loose” stance, according to a
statement by the ruling Communist Party’s Politburo, reported
today by the state-run Xinhua News Agency. Fiscal policy will
continue to be “proactive,” Xinhua said.  “Interest rates will be adjusted over the next year, but
the process will be gradual and slow and take into account
various factors including global conditions,” Li said in a
phone interview in Beijing. “A monetary policy shift won’t
happen overnight.”  China already has been winding back stimulus policies this
year to rein in liquidity and combat accelerating  inflation 
after the nation bounced back from the financial crisis. Inflows
of capital to Asia, the region leading the global recovery,
threaten to fuel price gains and asset bubbles.  Banks’ reserve ratios may need to increase further to
counter capital inflows and the so-called frontloading of loans
that may take place at the start of next year, said Li, who is
the head of Tsinghua University’s Center for China in the World
Economy. He has a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard University and
has worked at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution.  Crisis Policy  The People’s Bank of China raised lending and deposit rates
in October for the first time since 2007, lifted banks’ reserve
requirements with five publicly announced increases this year,
and has restricted loan growth. The one-year lending rate is at
5.56 percent, while the deposit rate is 2.5 percent. Li didn’t
give a specific forecast for rate moves.  Officials also in June ended a crisis policy of pegging the
nation’s currency to the dollar. The yuan can strengthen at a
faster pace if gains are controllable, Li said, adding that
appreciation would help to ease inflation and aid economic
rebalancing.  The nation lags behind counterparts from Malaysia to South
Korea in boosting borrowing costs. South Korea has raised rates
twice this year, Malaysia three times and India six. Thailand’s
unexpected increase this week was the nation’s third in 2010.  China has a sound base for stable and fast growth next year
even as difficulties and challenges remain, the Politburo said
today, adding that the government will ensure food supplies and
stabilize prices.  The government last used the term “prudent” for monetary
policy in 2007 before shifting to a tighter stance as
overheating risks increased before the financial crisis.  ‘Imminent’ Policy Move  “Rate hikes are imminent -- we expect one by the end of
the month, with more to come in 2011,”  Brian Jackson , a Hong
Kong-based emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada,
said after the Politburo statement.  The Shanghai Composite Index , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, slipped 1.2 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 2,842.43 at the 3 p.m. local-time close, after the
statement.  China’s next rate increase may come today or on Dec. 10 and
the yuan may strengthen at a “slightly” faster pace before
year-end, said  Shen Jianguang , a Hong Kong-based economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. who formerly worked for the
International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank.  By 7:10 p.m. local time, the central bank had made no
announcement on any move today.  Economists, including at Morgan Stanley, expect the
government to trim the nation’s lending quota again next year.
Inflation pressures have been highlighted by companies including
 McDonald’s Corp ., the world’s largest restaurant chain, pushing
up prices.  China’s Expansion  At Bank of America-Merrill Lynch, economist  Lu Ting  said
today that continuing a “proactive” fiscal stance while
tightening monetary policy will allow the government to maintain
economic growth of around 9 percent.  The expansion was 9.6
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.  According to Li, fiscal policy will remain “very
expansionary” with the budget deficit staying at about 3
percent of gross domestic product.  October’s inflation rate of 4.4 percent was the highest in
25 months and the nation has had record property-price gains
this year. Luxury-home costs in Beijing and Nanjing and so-
called mass-market prices in Shanghai and Shenzhen have become
“increasingly disconnected from fundamentals,” according to an
 International Monetary Fund  study released today.  Work Conference  The announcement from the Politburo, the 25-member body
that oversees the Communist Party and policy-making, came ahead
of an annual economic work conference that will set guidelines
for the coming year. That event may take place Dec. 10-12,
Xinhua said.  Concern that monetary tightening will cut corporate profits
and damp growth spurred a 6 percent sell-off in China’s
benchmark stock index in the past month.  Today’s announcement of a “prudent” stance had been
predicted by economists including at Deutsche Bank AG. and China
International Capital Corp. Central bank officials and advisers
had also used the term.  -- Li Yanping . Editors:  Paul Panckhurst ,  Nerys Avery .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Li Yanping  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  