-- PepsiCo CEO Taps Cold War Hero to Seal Latest Russian Takeover
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2010-12-03T17:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/pepsico-deploys-cold-war-hero-kendall-to-secure-takeover-of-wimm-bill-dann.html
Don Kendall  made a name for himself
by giving Soviet leader  Nikita Khrushchev  his first taste of
Pepsi. The 89-year-old former PepsiCo Inc. chief executive
officer can also take some credit for the company’s latest move
in Russia -- the takeover of Wimm-Bill-Dann Dairy & Juice Co.  Kendall joined current CEO  Indra Nooyi  in Russia this week
to help secure Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s blessing for the
deal. Nooyi said in an interview today that Kendall immediately
agreed to fly to Russia when she called him on Nov. 28 to come
to the meeting.  “He is Mr. Pepsi,” Nooyi said. “He just said, ‘When do you
want me to hop on the plane, and tell me what it’s for, and I’m
ready to go.’”  The $3.8 billion purchase of the majority stake in Wimm-
Bill-Dann makes PepsiCo Russia’s biggest food and beverage
company. Putin’s approval means PepsiCo is now poised to wrest
back the lead in Russia’s juice and dairy market from Coca-Cola
Co. as both companies make acquisitions in the region. PepsiCo,
based in Purchase, New York, entered the Russian market 15 years
after Khrushchev’s first sip of Pepsi in 1959.  Nooyi and Kendall talked with Putin, 58, about the billions
 PepsiCo  had invested in Russia and how it could use Wimm-Bill-
Dann as a springboard to expand in the region, said people with
knowledge of the talks. The executives also discussed how the
takeover was evidence that the nation is open to Western
investment, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the meeting was private.  Russian Pepsi  “It’s serves a wonderful role in helping us kick-start our
dairy business,” Nooyi said. PepsiCo plans to integrate dairy
products into snacks and drinks, not just sell packaged milk.
“This is a very, very important strategic move.”  PepsiCo had considered buying Wimm-Bill-Dann for years and
was able to pursue a deal after Danone SA agreed to sell its 18
percent stake in Wimm-Bill-Dann in August, two people said.
Danone  divested  the holding to address antitrust concerns in
Russia after buying another dairy company in the country.  Talks fired up with a chance meeting in September between
PepsiCo and Wimm-Bill-Dann executives at an industry conference
in Europe, said the person. Soon, the companies were in
exclusive  negotiations .  By October, Wimm-Bill-Dann became concerned word of the
discussions with Nooyi would be leaked and anger the Russian
government, which doesn’t like to learn of foreign investment
through media reports, according to the people. PepsiCo was
concerned that Coca-Cola and others might bid, the people said.
The companies agreed to reach a deal by next week or end talks.  Putin Meeting  As the two sides worked out details, they were concerned
about the reaction of Russian government leaders, who could
scuttle the transaction, two people said. That’s when Nooyi
called in Kendall, who still spends several days a week in his
office at PepsiCo  headquarters . The meeting with Putin lasted
about 45 minutes to an hour, another person said.  Kendall was Pepsi-Cola’s head of international operations
when he participated in the 1959 American National Exhibition in
Moscow. It was there that Kendall offered Khrushchev cups of
Pepsi-Cola made in the U.S. and Moscow. The tasting came moments
after Khrushchev’s and President Richard Nixon’s now-famous
Kitchen Debate at the exhibition.  In 2004, Russia awarded Kendall its Order of Friendship
medal. Putin presented the medal to Kendall on a later trip to
the country. An internal PepsiCo memo at the time called Kendall
the “architect of our international beverage business.”  Nooyi, 55, has a relationship with Putin as well through
her seat on Russia’s Foreign Investment Advisory Council. This
year’s council, chaired by Putin, also includes CEOs from BP
Plc, Cargill Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Ford Motor Co.  Remaining Stake  PepsiCo will buy 66 percent of Wimm-Bill-Dann and plans to
make an offer for the rest subject to government approvals, with
a deal for the entire company likely to be locked in by the end
of the second quarter, PepsiCo Chief Financial Officer  Hugh Johnston  said yesterday. The agreement doesn’t have a go-shop
provision or other mechanisms that would allow an outsider to
come in and bid, said the people.  The deal is PepsiCo’s largest yet to bolster its Russian
beverage business, following the 2008 purchase of a majority
stake in OAO Lebedyansky, the country’s biggest juice maker. The
move also makes Russia PepsiCo’s biggest international market.  Including assumed debt, PepsiCo is paying 19.8 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median multiple for
similar deals since 2001 is 9.66 times Ebitda, the data show.  Wimm-Bill-Dann, whose brands include Chudo dairy products
and Agusha baby food, has almost doubled its sales since 2005.
In 2009, PepsiCo and Wimm-Bill-Dann together had 42 percent of
Russian juice sales by volume, according to data from
Euromonitor Plc. Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. and Nidan held
a 35 percent share. Coca-Cola purchased a controlling stake in
Nidan this year.  Centerview Partners and Morgan Stanley served as financial
advisers for PepsiCo, and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and
Linklaters CIS provided legal counsel. J.P. Morgan provided
financial advice for Wimm-Bill-Dann, and Latham & Watkins LLP
acted as legal adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeffrey McCracken  in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
 Duane D. Stanford  in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  