-- Pertamina, Exxon Sign Deal to Jointly Develop Indonesia's Natuna Gas Block
-- B y   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2010-12-03T05:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/pertamina-exxon-sign-deal-to-jointly-develop-natuna-gas-block.html
PT Pertamina  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,
the largest U.S. oil company, signed an agreement today to
jointly develop the Natuna D-Alpha natural gas block in
Indonesia, officials said.  “This is the first step for the development of Natuna,”
 Karen Agustiawan , president director of Pertamina, told
reporters in Jakarta. “With this signing, hopefully we can
immediately start the project.”  Jakarta-based Pertamina is in final talks with other
potential partners and expects to sign similar deals next week,
Mochamad Harun, a spokesman at the state-owned oil and gas
company, said by telephone.  The decision on the partners may help Indonesia to speed up
the development of the project, which had been delayed after the
government canceled Exxon’s drilling rights in October 2006,
saying the company failed to provide a feasibility study. Irving,
Texas-based Exxon, which previously held a 76 percent stake,
denied the claim.  Pertamina has shortlisted six other potential partners for
the Natuna block including  Chevron Corp. ,  Total SA  and  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc ,  Edy Hermantoro , a director at the Ministry of
Energy and Mineral Resources, said in July. Indonesia expects
gas production from Natuna, off the western coast of Borneo
island, to start in 2018, Hermantoro said.  Natuna, discovered in 1973, is estimated to hold 46
trillion cubic feet of the fuel, according to estimates by
Pertamina. That’s about 41 percent of the country’s reserves of
112.5 trillion cubic feet as of the end of 2009, based on the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bambang Djanuarto  in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;
 Yoga Rusmana  in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  