-- Pfizer Properly Warned About Prempro Risks, Jury Finds
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-12-03T21:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/pfizer-properly-warned-about-prempro-health-risks-jury-finds.html
Pfizer Inc. ’s Wyeth unit
properly warned a Virginia woman’s doctors about the risks of
its Prempro menopause drug, a jury ruled today in rejecting her
claim for damages.  Jurors in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia,
deliberated about four hours over two days before finding that
Georgia Torkie-Tork couldn’t show that Wyeth officials
downplayed the breast-cancer risks associated with Prempro, a
hormone-replacement drug. The decision was Wyeth’s fourth
straight victory in a Prempro suit weighed by a jury.  “We believe the verdict in this case affirms that Wyeth
communicated the risks and benefits of Prempro,”  Chris Loder , a
spokesman for New York-based Pfizer, said in an e-mailed
statement.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms such as hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
topped $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative , a National Institutes of Health-sponsored study.  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined  Premarin ,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden  Provera , made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its  Prempro  pill.  Zoe Littlepage , one of Torkie-Tork’s lawyers, didn’t return
calls for comment on the jury verdict.  Litigation Record  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have now won seven of the
14 Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006.
The drugmaker got some of those verdicts thrown out after trial
or had the awards reduced. It resolved some of the verdicts
through settlements, while other decisions are on appeal.  Wyeth also has won dismissals of more than 3,000 cases
before trial, according to court filings. Pfizer, the world’s
 largest drugmaker , completed its $68 billion  purchase  of Wyeth
last year.  Nevada’s Supreme Court last week upheld a $57.6 million
jury award to three women who alleged Prempro caused their
cancers. That award included $35 million in punitive damages the
panel handed down in 2007 over Wyeth officials’ mishandling of
the drug.  Torkie-Tork, 65, took Prempro for at least three years
before being diagnosed with breast cancer in 2002, her lawyers
contended in court papers. The Reston, Virginia, resident works
at a  Starbucks Corp . coffeehouse.  Records Destroyed  Pfizer’s lawyers argued that Torkie-Tork couldn’t prove she
and her doctors received inadequate warnings about Prempro’s
cancer risks because she couldn’t show which of her doctors
prescribed the menopause drug.  Evidence in the case showed that some of her physicians
destroyed their records as part of normal business practices and
couldn’t remember prescribing the drug for the woman.  The case is Torkie-Tork v. Wyeth, 04-cv-945, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 