-- Pimco’s McCulley to Leave Investing for Think Tank
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2010-12-03T20:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/pimco-s-mcculley-to-join-think-tank-after-27-years-in-investing.html
Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Paul McCulley , a member of the firm’s committee of
senior investment managers, will retire after 27 years in
financial services to join a think tank.  McCulley  will leave at year-end and take time off before
becoming a public speaker, researcher and writer at the  Global
Interdependence Center , according to a letter sent to clients
yesterday by Co-Chief Investment Officers  Bill Gross  and  Mohamed El-Erian , a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The
nonprofit, Philadelphia-based center says its aim is to expand
“global dialogue” and free trade.  Best known for his analysis and monthly commentaries on
central banks and monetary policy, McCulley, 53, last month
defended Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
decision to try to stimulate the U.S. economy by buying debt in
a strategy known as quantitative easing. McCulley is part of the
10-member committee that sets the Newport Beach, California-
based firm’s investment strategy, and leads Pimco’s short-term
bond desk.  McCulley “has contributed to the formulation of the firm’s
economic outlook and portfolio positioning, which has helped
Pimco safeguard and enhance our clients’ investment and
retirement assets,” Gross and El-Erian wrote in the letter.  Pimco’s investment outlook has been guided since last year
by a philosophy the firm dubbed the “new normal.” The view
holds that investors should expect below-average market returns
along with heightened regulation, rising unemployment and a
shrinking role for the United States in the world economy.  ‘Stalled’ Trajectory  McCulley, who leads quarterly investment forums for Pimco’s
professional staff, said in October that the “bottom line for
the U.S. is a trajectory so slow you’d nearly call it stalled,”
as political and regulatory uncertainty has curbed hiring at
companies and the housing market struggles. Employers added
fewer jobs than forecast in November and the unemployment rate
rose to 9.8 percent, the Labor Department said today.  He is known for a whimsical style that includes imaginary
question-and-answer sessions on Federal Reserve policy with his
family pet rabbit Morgan le Fay, after whom he named his
personal foundation. Last month, McCulley ended his commentary
on Bernanke’s stimulus plan with a mock-Latin aphorism of
encouragement, “Bravo Ben: Illegitimi non carborundum,” or,
“Don’t let the bastards grind you down.”  Pimco, which oversees about $1.2 trillion in assets, is a
unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE . It manages the world’s
largest mutual fund, Gross’s $250 billion Pimco Total Bond Fund.
Started as a bond firm in 1971, Pimco last year began an
expansion into global equities.  Short-Term Focus  McCulley joined Pimco in 1990 as an account manager. He
left two years later for UBS Warburg, a unit of Zurich’s UBS AG,
where he served as chief economist for the Americas. He returned
to Pimco in 1999 as a portfolio manager.  McCulley oversees funds that invest in bonds with short
durations, including the $11.6 billion  Pimco Short-Term Fund  and
the $517 million  Pimco Money Market Fund . He also manages the
Pimco Government Money Market and was slated to manage the Pimco
Treasury Money Market, which the firm plans to open next year.  His responsibilities will be moved to other investment
professionals, who weren’t named in the letter. In a filing with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission today, Pimco said
 Jerome Schneider , an executive vice president at Pimco, will
take over the Short-Term and Money Market funds as well as Pimco
Government Money Market and Pimco Treasury Money Market.
Schneider joined Pimco in 2008 from Bear Stearns Cos., where he
had worked since 1995. He is the deputy head of the firm’s
money-market and funding desk.  McCulley didn’t return a request for comment.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pimco, declined to comment.  $1 Million Grant  The Global Interdependence Center said yesterday that
McCulley made a $1 million grant from his personal foundation,
Morgan Le Fay Dreams Foundation, to establish the Global Society
of Fellows, which will gather economists and policy makers from
around the world to help address economic issues. McCulley will
head the Global Society of Fellows, the nonprofit center said.  In the late 1990s, McCulley was named several times as a
member of the Institutional Investor All-America Fixed Income
Research Team. He has an undergraduate degree from Grinnell
College in Iowa and a master’s of business administration from
Columbia University in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam  in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 