-- Planned New College Football Hall of Fame Is $19 Million Below Fund Goal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2010-12-03T18:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/planned-new-college-football-hall-of-fame-is-19-million-below-fund-goal.html
College football’s new  Hall of Fame 
is $19 million short of its $50 million funding goal, eight
months before the facility’s scheduled groundbreaking in
downtown Atlanta.  The hall, which is being relocated from South Bend,
Indiana, and is set to open in March 2013, has raised $31
million for the project through state and city funding,
contributions from  Coca-Cola Co.  and Atlanta-based sandwich
chain  Chick-fil-A Inc ., and private investors.  Atlanta Hall Management Inc., the group created to oversee
construction, today unveiled the location and artist renditions
of the 50,000 square-foot facility. It will be built adjoining
the  Georgia World Congress Center , within walking distance of
the  Georgia Aquarium  and the 3-year-old  World of Coca-Cola , and
overlooking  Centennial Olympic Park .  “We needed to get a site first before we could really show
corporations the opportunity,” Gary Stokan, the group’s chief
executive officer, said at a news conference in Atlanta. “The
fundraising will start in earnest in January. ‘‘Now that we have
a site, we can get after it.’’  The group plans to meet with local and national companies,
including  Home Depot Inc. ,  United Parcel Service Inc.  and  AT&T
Inc. , over the coming months to raise additional funds, Stokan
said. Companies are being asked to commit at least $5 million
each in a combination of cash and marketing, he said.  ‘‘We needed to be able to show them what the facility will
be like,’’ Stokan said.  Conventioneers, Fans  The hall will feature an open-air courtyard resembling a
football field, surrounded by  video  screens and stadium-style
lights. The interactive facility will be built to attract
convention attendees in the city as well as college football
fans. The hall will work in conjunction with the aquarium, World
of Coke and other area attractions to draw visitors, Stokan
said. The group anticipates 500,000 annual visitors to the hall.  ‘‘This is not going to be a museum, this is going to be an
attraction,’’ Stokan said in an interview. ‘‘We’re creating our
own Disney World.’’  The South Bend hall, which is owned by the  National
Football Foundation , is scheduled to close at the end of 2011.
The hall attracted about 60,0000 visitors a year since moving to
South Bend from Kings Mills, Ohio in 1995, about 90,000 less
than the foundation had projected, according to the Associated
Press.  Foundation officials said the move to Georgia’s capital
will help attract more visitors. Atlanta will host the
 Southeastern Conference  championship game between Auburn
University and the University of South Carolina tomorrow, and
stages college football’s annual kickoff game, sponsored by
Chick-fil-A.  The first inductees into the new hall will be announced in
September 2012 as part of weekend kickoff games featuring Auburn
versus Clemson University and the University of Tennessee
against North Carolina State.  The hall will open six months later, a month before Atlanta
is scheduled to host college basketball’s Final Four tournament,
Stokan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Buteau  in Atlanta 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup
at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 