-- First Foreign Planes Arrive in Israel to Help Put Out Fires That Killed 40
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2010-12-03T06:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/planes-arrive-from-bulgaria-greece-to-fight-israeli-fires-that-killed-40.html
Planes from Greece and Bulgaria
arrived in Israel today with firefighters and equipment to help
contain a forest blaze near the port city of Haifa that has
killed about 40 people and forced the departure of 14,000 others.  The planes landed at the Ramat David air base southeast of
Haifa, an Army spokeswoman said, speaking anonymously according
to military regulation. Spain, Croatia, Turkey, France, Russia,
Azerbaijan, Cyprus, the U.K., Egypt and Romania have also
pledged to send aircraft, Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s
office said.  Israel expects about 20 planes from those countries to
arrive during the course of the day, said Menachem Caspi, one of
the firefighter commanders. The planes will have to work over
the next few days until the blaze is fully extinguished, he said
in a televised press conference from Haifa today.  “This is a disaster of unprecedented proportions,”
Netanyahu said yesterday in televised remarks. The Cabinet will
meet today to discuss measures to deal with the blaze.  All of Israel’s firefighters have been mobilized,
department spokesman Hezi Levi said on Army Radio, calling the
blaze the worst in the country’s history. The army dispatched
firefighters, equipment and hundreds of soldiers.  ‘Deepest Condolences’  U.S. President  Barack Obama , at a White House ceremony to
celebrate the Hanukkah holiday, began by “offering our deepest
condolences to the families and loved ones” of the victims of
the fire and pledged aid to help fight it.  The fire began around midday yesterday in the Carmel hills
outside of Haifa, home to 266,000. The exceptionally dry summer
created conditions that allowed the flames to spread quickly,
said Salman Abu Rukun, an employee of the  Israel Nature and
National Parks Protection Authority . Shimon Koren, Israeli
police northern district commander, said the possibility that
negligence or arson started the blaze was being investigated.  The fire department ran out of flame retardants yesterday
after two months of fighting blazes, Levi said. Staff were
flying to France to bring back more, he said.  More than 14,000 people were asked to leave their homes on
the southern outskirts of Haifa, Israel’s Channel 2 reported.  “I prefer that people not be at home or in bed for one
night but enjoy the rest of their lives,” Netanyahu said.  Foreign Assistance Essential  There is little chance of stopping the blaze without
assistance from abroad, Levi said on  Army Radio , describing the
fire as the worst since Israel was founded in 1948.  “We have to get ready for a long fight and I am not
talking about hours, I am talking about days,” he said. “We
were not prepared for such a large and cruel blaze. We never had
such a fire of these proportions, so strong, with so many dead
and wounded.”  Netanyahu instructed his staff to request firefighting help
from all of Israel’s allies, according to a text message to
journalists.  Most of the dead were caught in a bus carrying prison
guards, Prison Authority spokesman Yaron Zamir said on Army
Radio. The guards were on their way to help evacuate a prison
endangered by the flames, Rosenfeld said.  “The flames engulfed the bus and those who tried to escape
were burned alive,” fireman Dudu Vanunu told Channel 2
television.  Television stations broadcast footage of the mangled, gray
skeleton of the bus. Flames shooting above the tops of trees
could be seen.  About 40 people were killed in the blaze, according to Moti
Bukjin, spokesman for the Zaka rescue service, and Public
Security Minister  Yitzhak Aharonovitch .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .
 Gwen Ackerman  in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  