-- Private Equity Stalks Consumer Companies, BofA’s Selig Says
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2010-12-03T19:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/private-equity-stalks-consumer-companies-bank-of-america-s-selig-says.html
Private-equity firms are betting on
the U.S. consumer as they take advantage of historically low
interest rates to arrange leveraged buyouts, said  Stefan Selig ,
one of Bank of America Corp.’s top investment bankers.  The biggest U.S. LBOs this year are mostly consumer and
retail companies, such as those of Burger King Holdings Inc.,
Gymboree Corp., NBTY Inc., J. Crew Group Inc. and  Del Monte
Foods Co. , Selig said today at a conference hosted by the Deal
LLC in New York.  “It’s interesting that that’s where we’re seeing the most
deal activity,” he said. “Consumers seem to be shopping like
the dickens, and retailers are posting very, very strong
results.”  Selig, an executive vice chairman of corporate and
investment banking at Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of
America , advised vitamin maker NBTY on its sale to Carlyle
Group. His bank advised or financed the private-equity bidders
for Gymboree, J. Crew, and Del Monte.  Del Monte, valued at about $5.3 billion including debt, is
the largest leveraged buyout announced since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. Selig said deals of
greater size than that, which were common during the private-
equity boom of 2006 and 2007, are harder to consummate because
the disappearance of collateralized loan obligations has reduced
the amount of debt that can be raised to fund a transaction.  “The private-equity guys that raised all this capital in
2006, 2007 and the beginning of 2008 are feeling this huge
pressure to put money to work,” because of low interest rates
and a recovering market for high-yield debt, Selig said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Zachary R. Mider  in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 