-- Putin Tells Billionaire Abramovich to Open Wallet for World Cup Stadiums
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2010-12-03T17:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/putin-tells-abramovich-to-open-wallet-for-world-cup-stadiums.html
(Corrects date of tournament to be hosted by Russia in
fourth paragraph)  Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin 
said billionaire  Roman Abramovich , owner of English soccer
champion Chelsea, should help to finance stadium construction
for the 2018 World Cup.  “I don’t rule out that Mr. Abramovich may take part in one
of these projects,” Putin told reporters in Zurich last night
in televised  comments . “Let him dip into his pocket a bit. It’s
no big deal; he won’t feel the pinch. He has plenty of money.”  Putin said Russia will spend 300 billion rubles ($9.6
billion) to build 13 stadiums and to renovate three more in 13
host cities, including Sochi, home of the 2014 Winter Olympics.
OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil producer, plans to build
a stadium in Moscow, and another will be constructed with
financial support from state-run lender VTB Group, he said.  The  Federation Internationale de Football Association , or
FIFA, soccer’s world governing body, yesterday chose Russia to
host the 2018 tournament over England and joint bids from
Portugal and Spain and Belgium and the Netherlands. Putin flew
to Zurich after the announcement to discuss Russia’s plans with
 Sepp Blatter , president of FIFA.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  said today that Russia’s success
is “pleasant, long-awaited and in part even unexpected.”
FIFA’s decision “is a recognition of our country’s potential in
sports and other things,” he said in televised comments.  Stocks May Outperform  A ticket to the tournament will double as a visa to enter
Russia, Medvedev said.  Abramovich is ready to contribute toward financing
construction for the tournament “in partnership with the
state,” RIA Novosti reported, citing the billionaire’s
spokesman,  John Mann .  Russia’s winning bid may help the country’s main stock
indexes to outperform other emerging markets by as much as 10
percent over the next three months, VTB Capital analysts wrote
in a report today.  Steelmakers surged after the announcement on anticipation
of increased demand from the World Cup building boom. OAO
Severstal, Russia’s largest steelmaker, rose 5.2 percent
yesterday and was up 3.3 percent to $15.85 at 5:30 p.m. Moscow
time today in London trading. OAO Novolipetsk Steel closed 7.3
percent higher yesterday and advanced 4.2 percent to $42.73 in
London today.  Tourism Infrastructure  Abramovich is a shareholder in steelmaker Evraz Group SA,
which soared 5.2 percent yesterday and was up 4.6 percent to
$35.25 at 5:30 p.m. Moscow time today in London trading. Forbes
magazine estimates his wealth at $11.2 billion, making him
Russia’s fourth-richest man.  The total bill for Russia’s World Cup preparations may
exceed $50 billion, the  Vedomosti  newspaper reported today,
citing Marina Udachina, head of the Institute for Innovation,
Infrastructure and Investment.  In addition to stadium construction, Russia pledged about
$11 billion of investment in  tourism infrastructure , primarily
to increase the number of three-star hotels and budget
accommodation, according to materials on FIFA’s website.  Russia will have to build 7,711 kilometers (4,791 miles) of
roads and lay 2,024 kilometers of rail track by 2018 at a cost
of about $35 billion, Udachina told Vedomosti, based on FIFA’s
report.  ‘High Risk’  Russia committed to make “major upgrades and capacity
increases” at most airports serving the host cities. FIFA
assessed Russia’s ability to provide requisite airports and
international connections as a “high risk.”  “Even with planned renovations, some airport capacities
would still not meet requirements,” FIFA concluded. “The
required temporary facilities were proposed, but without
guarantees.”  Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said yesterday that
expenditures on the World Cup would be “significantly less”
than on the 2014 Winter Olympics, according to the ministry’s
 website .  “We have a lot do to -- stadiums, airports, roads,” Putin
said. “But this presents us with a challenge, and this is the
advantage of our bid. It means the development of world
football, but also the development of roads and transportation
infrastructure for our country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ilya Khrennikov  in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  