-- Congressman Rangel Calls House Censure `Political' as Two-Year Probe Ends
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-12-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/rangel-calls-house-censure-political-as-two-year-probe-ends.html
Representative  Charles Rangel  of New
York, the first lawmaker censured by the U.S. House in 27 years,
said members rejected a lesser punishment out of concern that
they could be hurt in their districts.  “We do know this is a political body,” Rangel, a
Democrat, said at a news conference yesterday after the House
voted, 333-79, to approve a resolution of censure. “I am at
rest with myself. I am convinced, when history has been written,
people would recognize that to vote for censure was a very,
very, very political vote.”  Rangel, 80, was convicted of 11 violations of House rules.
He is the first House member censured since 1983, when the
sanction was applied to Representatives Gerry Studds, a
Massachusetts Democrat, and Daniel Crane, an Illinois
Republican, for sexual misconduct with House pages.  Following a two-year investigation, the House ethics
committee voted 9-1 on Nov. 18 to recommend that Rangel be
censured. It also called on him to pay back taxes on rental
income from his villa in the Dominican Republic.  “Public office is a public trust,” said committee member
 Michael McCaul , a Texas Republican. “Mr. Rangel violated that
trust.”  Rangel said at the news conference that he had been willing
to accept a less severe penalty. A subcommittee of the ethics
panel had recommended a reprimand, a  lesser form of punishment ,
rather than a censure. Rangel said he had signed off on an
agreement, though it never was approved by the ethics committee,
formally known as the Committee on Standards of Official
Conduct.  Alternative Punishment  Several lawmakers, including ethics committee member G.K.
Butterfield, a North Carolina Democrat, urged the House to
approve a reprimand instead, saying that the chamber didn’t
censure other lawmakers who committed similar violations.  “If expulsion is the equivalent of the death penalty,
censure is life imprisonment,” said Representative  Peter King ,
a New York Republican. “Why today are we being asked to reverse
200 years of tradition?”  The House rejected Butterfield’s motion to move ahead with
a reprimand rather than a censure, with 146 supporting the
motion and 267 voting against it.  While a censure is a blemish on Rangel’s 40-year record in
the House, it won’t keep him from continuing to serve. He was
re-elected Nov. 2 to a 21st term, winning 80 percent of the vote
in his Harlem-based district.  A subcommittee found that Rangel misused congressional
stationery and staff to seek donations for an  academic center
named for him  at City College of New York, filed erroneous
financial disclosure statements, failed to pay taxes for 17
years on rental income, and used a rent-controlled apartment as
a campaign office.  ‘Prolonged Basis’  The violations were committed “on a continuous and
prolonged basis” and warranted “a strong congressional
response rebuking his behavior,” the full committee said in a
 report  to the House on Nov. 30.  House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, read the
resolution of censure as Rangel stood in front of the podium,
his hands clasped. When she was done, he said that “even though
it’s painful to accept the vote,” he was satisfied he had
proven that “at no time did it enter my mind to enrich
myself.”  “I know in my heart I am not going to be judged by this
Congress, but I am going to be judged by my life, my activities,
my contributions,” he said in a brief floor speech. “Compared
to where I’ve been,” he said, referring to his injuries in
battle during the Korean War, “I haven’t had a bad day since.”  Rangel ‘Violated Laws’  Ethics committee chairwoman  Zoe Lofgren , a California
Democrat, praised Rangel’s four decades of service in the House
and his military service in Korea. “Nothing will diminish his
service to our country,” she said on the House floor. “But
that service does not change the fact that Representative Rangel
violated laws.”  Rangel gave up the chairmanship of the House Ways and Means
Committee in March after the ethics panel said he had broken
House rules by accepting corporate-sponsored travel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 