-- Treasury Two-Year Notes Advance as Employers Add Fewer Jobs Than Forecast
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2010-12-03T22:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/treasuries-advance-after-u-s-data-show-fewer-jobs-created-than-forecast.html
Treasury 2-year note  yields  fell
after U.S. employers added fewer jobs in November than
economists forecast and the unemployment rate unexpectedly rose,
reigniting concern the pace of the economic recovery will slow.  Government notes maturing in five years and less gained for
the first time in three days as the 39,000 increase in jobs
underscored the Federal Reserve’s decision to use a policy of
quantitative easing to pump money into the economy. The central
bank bought $6.8 billion of Treasuries as part of its $600
billion plan to keep borrowing costs low. Longer-maturity debt
fell after a report showed service industries expanded in
November at the fastest pace in six months.  “We’ve rallied in the front-end, reflecting some of
pessimism that the report provided and a realization that the
Fed will have support to not decrease the pace of QE anytime
soon,” said  Eric Lascelles,  chief rates strategist and
economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in
Toronto.  The yield on the 2-year note fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 0.47 percent at 5:06 p.m. in New York,
according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 0.5 percent
security maturing in November 2012 rose 4/32, or $1.25 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 1/32.  Ten-year note yields rose two basis points to 3.01 percent
after touching 3.04 percent, the highest since July 28, and as
low as 2.9 percent. Thirty-year yields increased six basis
points to 4.32 percent, the highest since Nov. 18.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield investors pay to hold 10-year notes over
two-year debt widened for a fourth straight day to 2.54
percentage points, the steepest yield curve since June.  “There is there is still a lot of good news out there,
which has kept the longer-end higher in yield,” Lascelles said.  Investment-grade corporate bond yields climbed to the
highest since August, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master Index. Yields yesterday breached
the 4 percent threshold for the first time since Aug. 5,
climbing to 4.011 percent.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s largest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said the Fed is unlikely to
raise interest rates for several years with employment growing
less than forecast.  “The front part of the curve is the safe part of the
curve” with policy makers forced to keep their target rate near
zero to sustain growth, Gross said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . The difference
between 2-and 10-year notes is known as the yield curve.  Jobs Pattern  Payrolls increased less than the most pessimistic
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after a
revised 172,000 gain the prior month, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median forecast of 87 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for 150,000 more jobs. The
jobless rate rose to 9.8 percent, the highest since April.  The Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing
index, which covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 55
last month from 54.3 in October. A reading higher than 50
signals growth.  “The market has seen a lot of good economic news lately
and the jobs report was the first to that bucked the trend of
good economic data,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a Purchase, New York-
based chief fixed-income strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney. “But the market has discounted it some as we’ve avoided
a double dip and are seeing some momentum, even if it is slow,
so they are not reading into the jobs number very much at this
state.”  Hedge Switch  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators reversed
from a net-long position to a net-short position in 10-year note
futures in the week ending Nov. 30, according to U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 67,655 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Last week, traders were net-long 27,281
contracts.  Fed policy makers on Nov. 12 started a $600 billion second
round of asset purchases to support growth in the economy and to
reduce unemployment and avert deflation. The U.S. central bank
today bought Treasuries maturing from June 2013 to November
2014, according to the New York Fed’s website.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, has widened to 2.2 percentage points from
this year’s low of 1.51 percentage points in August. The five-
year average was 2.089 percentage points.  The 10-year note yield will end the year at 2.64 percent,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
63 banks and securities companies, with the most recent
estimates given the heaviest weightings. The two-year note yield
is expected to end 2010 at 0.5 percent.  Next week’s government debt sales will include $32 billion
of three-year notes on Dec. 7, $21 billion of 10-year securities
the following day and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on Dec. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Daniel Kruger  in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  