-- Treasuries Halt Two-Day Slide on Speculation Costs in Check as Jobs Gain
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2010-12-03T06:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/treasuries-halt-two-day-slide-on-speculation-costs-in-check-as-jobs-gain.html
Treasuries snapped a two-day decline
as economists said a Labor Department report today will indicate
U.S. employment gains aren’t enough to spur inflation.  Yields at a four-month high attracted investors as Federal
Reserve Bank of Cleveland President Sandra Pianalto said she
expects core inflation, which excludes food and energy costs, to
be “subdued.” The Federal Reserve is scheduled to buy $6
billion to $8 billon of Treasuries due from 2013 to 2014 today
as part of its plan to spur the economy.  “There is still deflation pressure,” said  Hiromasa Nakamura , who helps oversee the equivalent of $35.8 billion as a
senior investor in Tokyo at Mizuho Asset Management Co., a unit
of Japan’s second-largest publicly traded bank. “That’s
positive for Treasuries.”  Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at 3 percent
as of 6:44 a.m. in London, according to BGCantor Market Data.
The 2.625 percent security due in November 2020 traded at a
price of 96 26/32.  The yield climbed to 3.03 percent yesterday, the highest
level since July 29. The rate will be 2.5 percent by the middle
of next year, Nakamura said.  U.S. employers added 150,000 workers last month, after
hiring 151,000 in October, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The advances haven’t been
large enough to bring down  unemployment , which held at 9.6
percent, according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  Bernanke Comment  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Nov. 30 that the economy
is “not growing fast enough to materially reduce the
unemployment rate” and the rate is “about the same as it was
when the recession officially ended.”  Separate reports today will show service industries, which
account for almost 90 percent of the economy, grew at the
fastest pace since May, Bloomberg surveys show.  Core inflation is likely “to remain quite subdued through
2013,” the Fed’s Pianalto said yesterday in Oberlin, Ohio. This
measure of inflation increased 0.6 percent in October from the
year before, the least on record, Labor Department data show.  The figure will slow to 0.2 percent in the second half of
2011, according to BNP Paribas, one of the 18 primary dealers
that are required to bid at the government’s debt sales. Ten-
year yields will fall to 2.4 percent by March 31, said  Tomohisa Fujiki , an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas Securities
Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  Housing Recovery  Treasuries still headed for a weekly loss, with 10-year
yields rising 13 basis points, after a private report yesterday
showed a pickup in the housing market.  “Bonds will be a bit weaker,” said  Satoshi Okumoto , a
general manager in Tokyo at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
which has the equivalent of $66.8 billion in assets. “We have
been seeing better-than-expected economic figures.” Ten-year
yields will rise to 3.25 percent by June 30, he said.  Benchmark yields increased four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, after the prior employment report on Nov. 5,
when payrolls exceeded all estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Treasuries went on to hand investors a 0.7 percent loss
last month, the steepest decline since March, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data.  Inflation Outlook  Mizuho’s Nakamura said he takes the shrinking  spread 
between two- and 30-year yields as a sign of slowing inflation.
The gap narrowed to 3.70 percentage points from a record 3.88
percentage points on Nov. 15.  The Fed’s plan to buy $600 billion of U.S. debt will focus
about 86 percent of its purchases in notes due in 2.5 years to
10 years, leaving the so-called long bond as the security that
most closely reflects market expectations for inflation.  Another measure is telling a different story.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year  notes  and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the securities, widened to
2.19 percentage points today. The figure is within two basis
point of a six-month high. The five-year average is 2.09
percentage points.  Investors should favor mid-term Treasuries, especially
seven-year securities, strategists  Mike Cloherty  and  Keith Blackwell  at RBC Capital Markets Corp. in New York wrote in a
report yesterday. The company is another primary dealer.  The  difference  between two- and seven-year yields widened
to 1.83 percentage points yesterday, the most since July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Fed bought $8.3 billion of Treasuries maturing from
February 2018 to August 2020 yesterday, according to the New
York Fed’s website.  “The ongoing euro crisis and the Fed purchases will keep a
lid on how far Treasuries can fall,” said  Larry Milstein ,
managing director in New York of government and agency debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors.  Greece was warned yesterday it may receive a lower debt
rating from Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Wes Goodman  in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 