-- Tribune Creditors Sue Ex-Chief, Executives Over Pre-Bankruptcy Payments
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-12-04T02:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/tribune-creditors-sue-cfo-bigelow-for-1-6-million-pre-bankruptcy-payments.html
Tribune Co.  creditors sued former
Chief Executive Officer  Dennis FitzSimons  and other former and
current executives to recoup payments they received within a
year of the company seeking bankruptcy protection.  The official committee of unsecured creditors seeks
$28.7 million that FitzSimons got in December 2007, according to
a complaint filed today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,
Delaware. The lawsuits against FitzSimons and 17 other so-called
insiders were filed four days after Judge  Kevin J. Carey  allowed
the claims to recoup potentially voidable payments.  Also sued were former Chief Financial Officer  Donald Grenesko , for $13.8 million, and current Chief Financial Officer
 Chandler Bigelow , for more than $1.6 million.  The media company, publisher of the Los Angeles Times and
the Chicago Tribune newspapers, filed for Chapter 11 protection
in December 2008 after a buyout led by real estate developer  Sam Zell  added $8 billion to the company’s debt.  Four different factions have submitted proposed plans of
reorganization, prompting Carey to warn the parties on Nov. 29
that he would draft the plan if the groups couldn’t resolve
their differences.  “These claims are being filed now to satisfy a two-year
statute of limitations requirement and they are being stayed for
the present time according to court order,”  Gary Weitman , a
Tribune spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement on behalf of
the Chicago-based company and its CFO.  “The company is hopeful that these claims will be resolved
during the course of the Chapter 11 process,” Weitman said.  Bigelow  served as the company’s treasurer from 1998 to 2008
before being elevated to his present post. Tribune last month
removed him and four other executives from a $43 million bonus
program, citing creditor objections and litigation.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-13141, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 