-- Trichet Keeps Pressure on EU as Bond Program Buys Time to Reduce Deficits
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2010-12-03T10:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/trichet-keeps-pressure-on-governments-as-bond-program-buys-eu-time-to-act.html
Jean-Claude Trichet  is keeping the
onus on governments to fix the debt crisis as the European
Central Bank buys bonds to win politicians time to cut deficits.  Warning European Union leaders that they can’t rely on
“benign neglect” to quell market turmoil, Trichet, the ECB’s
president, is deploying a two-pronged strategy to ease roiled
markets. The bank snapped up Portuguese and Irish  bonds  again
today after Trichet yesterday assured investors that policy
makers will delay the withdrawal of emergency liquidity.  The ECB wants governments to take the lead in quelling the
turmoil that threatens to spread to  Spain  from  Ireland  and
Greece. With Trichet yesterday stopping short of announcing more
powerful measures, the risk is that the crisis may be drawn out
and the ECB will have to do more if politicians don’t deliver.
Trichet meets French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  later today.  “Trichet doesn’t see a quick and easy fix,” said  Axel Merk , president and chief investment officer of Merk Investments
LLC in Paolo Alto, California. “The ECB is most reluctant to
intervene too heavily in the markets as that would take the
pressure off policy makers to follow through with reform.”  The ECB’s purchases, which were stepped up during Trichet’s
press conference in Frankfurt yesterday, have triggered a surge
in bonds across the euro region’s periphery.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Portuguese
10-year bonds over German bunds today fell below 300 basis
points for the first time since August. Irish yields dropped 28
basis points to 8.51 percent after falling 38 basis points
yesterday.  Market Risk  The Spanish 10-year yield, which jumped to a euro-era
record of 5.67 percent on Nov. 30, was at 4.59 percent at 10:41
a.m. in London. The euro rose 0.4 percent to $1.3265 today.  While  Luigi Speranza , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London, said that the ECB again did the “bare minimum” and may
fail to calm markets,  Gilles Moec  of Deutsche Bank says the ECB
is keeping “some powder dry.”  “The message is that investors positioning themselves for
further tension on peripheral yields do so at their own risk,”
said Moec.  The ECB’s Governing Council convened to set monetary policy
as investors debate whether politicians have the resolve or the
remedies to stop the crisis after Ireland’s Nov. 28 bailout
failed to placate markets.  Trichet went some way to providing relief by saying the ECB
will keep offering banks as much funds as they want at a fixed
 interest rate  for seven days, one month and three months through
the first quarter. The move marked a policy shift from November,
when Trichet indicated the ECB would tighten access to cash.  ‘Elevated Uncertainty’  “Uncertainty is elevated,” Trichet said after the ECB
left its  benchmark interest rate  at 1 percent. “We have
tensions and we have to take them into account.”  Trichet nevertheless refused to say whether the ECB will
boost or broaden its bond purchases and said the central bank
will keep sterilizing them, unlike similar programs at the
Federal Reserve and Bank of England.  The refusal to be more aggressive reflects a belief at the
ECB that Europe’s debt woes can only be solved by governments
embracing austerity and that providing more liquidity would only
delay the day of reckoning, said  Peter Dixon , an economist at
Commerzbank AG in London.  “The ECB is effectively putting a sticking plaster over
many of the problems in order to ensure that markets continue to
function, but this requires governments to sit down and think
much more clearly,” said Dixon. “Ultimately the problems we
face are for governments to solve, not central banks.”  EU Options  Economists say the EU’s options include boosting the 750
billion-euro ($992 billion) temporary rescue fund or turning it
into an asset-buying program, cutting interest rates on bailout
loans or issuing joint bonds for the 16 euro nations.  Trichet, who said at a conference in Paris today that
Europe needs a “quasi” fiscal union, is due to meet Sarkozy in
the French capital at 5:15 p.m. to discuss the “situation in
the euro zone.”  The ECB may have been reluctant to go even further to
support Spain, Greece, Ireland and Portugal for fear of being
viewed as a bailout tool for politicians, damaging its
independence. Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , a leading
contender to replace Trichet next year, opposed the decision to
start buying bonds in May and has since called for the program
to be canceled. He says it poses “stability risks” and that
there is no evidence it works.  ‘Overwhelming Majority’  In a sign the ECB’s 22-member Governing Council remains
divided, Trichet said the bond plan had only enjoyed the support
of an “overwhelming majority” and the extension of liquidity
measures had been endorsed by “consensus.” Weber, who spoke at
a separate event in Frankfurt yesterday, said he had nothing to
add to Trichet’s remarks.  The ECB has already stepped up its activity, last week
buying the most bonds in two months. Overall purchases
nevertheless total 67 billion euros so far, well below the
amounts bought by the Bank of England and the Fed.  With the ECB dipping into markets, Trichet signaled that EU
governments could increase their bailout fund set up earlier
this year.  Asked about the size of the cash pool in Paris today,
Trichet said that “everything they do needs to be commensurate
to dimension of the challenges.”  “This is true in all domains, qualitative as well as
quantitative,” he said. “They must go as far as possible and
be as effective as possible.”  The risk is that Trichet’s pleas fall on deaf ears, with
governments indicating they have “not reached the place yet
where they’re thinking about bold action,” said  Nick Kounis ,
chief euro-region economist at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam.  “There is every danger that the crisis will become more
acute,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Simone Meier  in Frankfurt at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  