-- Rio Riot Movie Breaks Records in Brazil as Police Invade Slums
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2010-12-03T02:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/rio-riot-film-sets-records-in-brazil-as-police-invade-slums-to-stem-drugs.html
Brazil’s movie industry is breaking
records after  “Tropa de Elite 2”  lured 10.8 million people to
theaters for a fictional account of corruption and violence in
Rio de Janeiro just as the government invaded slums to fend off
drug traffickers.  The sequel to the saga of Bope, Rio’s black-clad special
police forces known as “the skulls,” attracted so many viewers
this year that it’s second only to the 1997 epic romance
“Titanic” in attendance, according to  Filme B  Comunicacoes
Ltda., operator of a website that collects data on the movie
industry in Brazil. Interest in the film drove 2010 Brazilian
box-office sales to 1.15 billion reais ($678 million) through
Nov. 21, 18 percent more than in all 2009, according to Filme B.  Almost seven weeks after its Oct. 8 premiere, “Tropa de
Elite 2” proved prophetic. A 2,700-member strong police force
raided the hillside shanty town slums known as  Complexo do
Alemao  to halt a week of car burnings and street shootouts and
attempt to end three decades of crime rule in the area.  ‘It is a movie people needed to see,” said Filme B Chief
Executive Officer Paulo Sergio Almeida in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo. “It is an almost didactic movie about violence. It’s
a movie that was in people’s unconscious.”  Armed Forces  The biggest security operation in the nation’s history
ended this week after President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva 
authorized armed forces on Nov. 25 to deploy tanks, helicopters
and 800 soldiers to Complexo do Alemao in a bid to clean up
crime ahead of the 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympic games. At
least 37 people died in the violence.  The second part of the hit “Elite Squad” tells the story
of Capt. Nascimento, Bope’s commander in chief, and his officers
as they struggle to control areas riddled with shootings,
murders, bombings and attacks on cars and buses. The film
combines fact and fiction and includes references to violent
acts, including the killing of Tim Lopes, an award-winning
investigative reporter for Rede Globo TV. Lopes was burned to
death by Rio traffickers in 2002.  The movie “mixes things that happened 10 years ago, with
others that happened last year, with yet others that are
fictional,” said  Jose Padilha , 43, the film’s director and co-
producer, in a telephone interview from Rio. “These problems
repeat themselves throughout time. The history of public
security in Rio de Janeiro is a history of repeating
tragedies.”  Corruption  While the fictional commander is promoted to state
government only to realize his main enemy is no longer drug
lords but corruption among his current and former colleagues,
the raid scenes shown live on local TV haven’t yet reached a
conclusion. Padilha said the movie is a warning of what may
happen should authorities fail to make improvements to the
prison system, police and education.  “The movie has a second half in which, after fending off
the drug trafficking, politicians take advantage of this in
electoral terms, but don’t carry on the reforms in public
institutions,” said Padilha. “If the reforms are not carried
out, I bet we will also see” what occurs in the sequel turn
into reality, he said.  The original “Tropa de Elite” premiered in 2007 and won
the Golden Bear award at the  Berlin International Film Festival 
in 2008.  The sequel cost 17 million reais to make and has earned 90
million reais in ticket revenue since the premiere, Padilha
said. It debuted as the film industry benefits from a rise in
discretionary spending in Latin America’s largest nation, driven
by the fastest economic growth in more than two decades.  As filmgoers continue to flock to “Tropa de Elite 2,”
Padilha is already onto his next project. He is planning a movie
about the biggest corruption investigation in Lula’s tenure,
known as “Mensalao.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fabiola Moura  in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  