-- Ron Santo, Former Cubs Third Baseman Turned MLB Broadcaster, Dies at 70
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2010-12-03T16:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ron-santo-former-cubs-third-baseman-turned-mlb-broadcaster-dies-at-70.html
Ron Santo , the former Chicago Cubs
third baseman who went on to become a broadcaster for the Major
League Baseball team, died yesterday at the age of 70.  Santo’s death was confirmed on the  website  of WGN, where he
worked as a radio analyst on Cubs games. Santo died in Arizona
from complications of bladder cancer, it said.  “He absolutely loved the Cubs,”  Pat Hughes , Santo’s
broadcast partner, told the  Chicago Tribune . “The Cubs have
lost their biggest fan.”  Santo had a lifelong battle with diabetes, which included
the amputation of both legs, but continued to work as a radio
analyst. WGN said he had been expected to return to the
broadcast booth in 2011.  “He considered going to games therapeutic,” Hughes said.
“He enjoyed himself in the booth right to the end.”  Santo played for the Cubs from 1960 through 1973 before
joining the Chicago White Sox for a final season. A nine-time
All-Star, he batted .277 over his 15-year career with 342 home
runs and 1,331 runs batted in, and won five Gold Glove Awards
for defense.  Santo was one of the leaders of the 1969 Cubs team that
suffered one of the biggest collapses in MLB history. Chicago
led the National League’s Eastern Division by nine games in
August before losing 26 of its final 43 games to finish eight
games behind the New York Mets, who would go on to win the World
Series.  Radio Rookie  In 1990, Santo joined WGN radio, the Cubs’ flagship
station, as an analyst. He missed several road trips last
season.  Listening to Santo on Cubs games was like listening to the
broadcast with your grandfather because of Santo’s gut reaction
and not the analysis of a play, said Brad Zibung, founder and
editor-in-chief of The Heckler, a mostly satirical publication
and website focused on Chicago sports teams.  “I always liked that emotion that came with his
broadcasts,” Zibung, 34, said in a telephone interview.  Tom Ricketts , the Cubs’ chairman, said he and his brothers
and sisters first knew Santo through his radio work, long before
they bought the team.  “We knew him for his passion, his loyalty, his great
personal courage and his tremendous sense of humor,” Ricketts
said in a statement on the WGN website. “It was our great honor
to get to know him personally in our first year as owners.
Ronnie will forever be the heart and soul of Cubs fans.”  Santo was up for the nomination to the Baseball Hall of
Fame 19 times without being selected. He came closest in 2007,
when he fell five votes shy of election from the Hall’s Veterans
Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 