-- Ronaldo Leads Soccer Diaspora Back Home as Brazil Rally Brings Madrid Pay
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 2010-12-03T08:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ronaldo-leads-soccer-diaspora-back-home-as-brazil-rally-brings-madrid-pay.html
Brazil’s economic boom and
strengthening currency are luring hundreds of globe-trotting
soccer players home.  The 34-year-old soccer star Ronaldo is getting paid as much
with Sao Paulo’s  Corinthians  as in 2006 with Real Madrid, the
biggest soccer team by sales, his agent Fabiano Farah said. That
was $8.2 million, according to Spanish newspaper El Mundo.
Teammate Roberto Carlos says he doesn’t need to seek out bigger
checks abroad after 15 years in Italy, Spain and Turkey.  As Brazil’s economy expands at the fastest rate in more
than two decades, wealthier clubs and a stronger currency are
boosting the national league, which ends Dec. 5. The number of
players traded to Brazilian teams from abroad rose to 707 last
year, more than twice as many as in 2006,  national soccer
federation statistics  show. Some 6,650 players had left Brazil
between 2003 and 2009.  “Brazil nowadays is very different from the ‘90s, when I
left for Europe,’’ Roberto Carlos, 37, said in an interview.
‘‘It’s possible to play at a very high level in Brazil, make
money and stay with my family.’’  Players have emigrated since the 1980s as Brazil’s league
suffered from crumbling stadiums, fan violence and a calendar
that changed so frequently most people couldn’t keep track, said
Richard Law, a consultant on Brazil for London team Arsenal.  Ronaldo Rejects U.S.  Now there’s a boom. Revenue of the 20 top-tier teams rose
12 percent to 1.93 billion reais ($1.13 billion) last year on
more television rights income, a study by research and
consulting firm  Crowe Horwath RCS  in Sao Paulo found. The
English Premier League, soccer’s biggest with $3.6 billion of
revenue, had 3 percent growth in the year to June 2009.  Spending by the 20 Brazilian clubs on transfers and
salaries rose 14 percent to 1.2 billion reais, according to the
study published in May.  Ronaldo was world player of the year three times. He
rejected offers from the U.S., England and Germany when he
signed with Corinthians in December 2008, said Farah, who
declined to name teams that made the bids or disclose Ronaldo’s
income. Roberto Carlos, a World Cup winner in 2002, joined
Corinthians from Turkey’s Fenerbahce last December.  A stronger Brazilian currency is the main reason for
marquee players coming back, according to Juan Figer, an agent
in Brazil since the 1970s. The Brazilian real climbed 74 percent
in value against the euro since May 2004, when Ronaldo and
Roberto Carlos were at Real Madrid.  Tax Advantages  Brazil’s lower top tax rate of 27.5 percent -- compared
with 43 percent in Spain -- is another motive, says Law, who’s
based in Fort Worth, Texas. ‘‘Playing in Europe isn’t what it
used to be if you’re going to lose half your income” to tax
authorities, Law said.  Corinthians, which increased spending on player trades and
salaries by 65 percent to 133.6 million reais last year, is
happy to pay more to Ronaldo because he helps generate
sponsorship and ticket revenue, team President Andres Sanchez
said. The club had net income of 5.8 million reais as sales
soared 54 percent to 181 million reais, according to Crowe
Horwath’s research.  “Ronaldo is too cheap for me,” Sanchez said in an
interview. “Corinthians has never made so much money.”  Ronaldo gets a share of ticket sales and sponsorship
income, which doubled last year on deals with companies such as
Sao Paulo-based  BRF-Brasil Foods SA , the world’s largest poultry
exporter, Farah said. Ronaldo, who has six goals in eight league
games this season, wasn’t available for interview.  More Organized  As more money flows into the Brazilian league, it is
becoming more organized, Law said. In 2003, end-of-season
playoffs that were repeatedly amended in an effort to boost
audiences were canceled. The championship now has the same
format as Europe’s top divisions.  League leader  Fluminense of Rio de Janeiro is seeking its
first title since 1984 this weekend, when Corinthians and Belo
Horizonte’s Cruzeiro can also prevail.  To be sure, Brazilians will still seek contracts in
European leagues to boost their profile and earning power,
according to Farah.  Real Madrid’s payroll last season was more than three times
bigger than that of Corinthians, helping it attract Sao Paulo
native Kaka, 28, from AC Milan in 2009. Neymar, 18, said he
plans to leave Brazil’s Santos for the Premier League,  the Sun
newspaper reported  Oct. 6. Neymar’s agent Wagner Ribeiro didn’t
return messages seeking comment.  “Young players are still going to want to try out new
experiences: different food, different languages,” Farah said.
“They want to test themselves.”  Deco Returns Home  Brazilian soccer federation statistics show 1,017 players
left to play abroad last year, a 14 percent decrease from 2008.
That’s because contracts are improving in Brazil, Figer said.  Clubs expect sales to climb 58 percent more by the time
Brazil hosts the 2014 World Cup, according to Crowe Horwath’s
study. Some $2.8 billion of public investment in 12 stadiums
will boost corporate hospitality sales, Crowe Horwath director
Amir Somoggi said.  That’s good news for players like 33-year-old Deco, a two-
time Champions League winner who moved to Fluminense in August
after 13 years in Europe.  “I have been far away from my country for too many years,
I missed my family,” Deco said. “It was time to come back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Duff  in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Oliveira in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  