-- Royal Bank Drops Reference to U.S. From 2011 Goals
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2010-12-03T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/royal-bank-of-canada-drops-u-s-banking-from-2011-objectives.html
Royal Bank of Canada  dropped
references to the U.S. from its strategic goals for next year, a
sign that Canada’s largest lender may be putting less emphasis
on its money-losing U.S. consumer bank.  In its 2010  annual report  released today, the Toronto-based
bank stated it wanted “globally, to be a leading provider of
capital markets and wealth-management solutions.” In annual
reports for the previous eight years, the goals included being a
leading provider of banking in the U.S.  The language change comes after Royal Bank posted 10
consecutive quarterly  losses  in its international banking
division, which includes Raleigh, North Carolina-based RBC Bank.  “This may be an indication that they’re either going to
look to exit completely out of the U.S., or at least not put any
more assets in that direction,” said  Barry Schwartz , who helps
manage about C$375 million ($373 million) including Royal Bank
shares at Baskin Financial Services Inc. in Toronto.  The change reflects how investment banking and wealth
management have become bigger businesses than consumer lending
in the U.S.,  Barbara Stymiest , group head of strategy, treasury
and corporate services, said today in an interview. RBC Bank now
falls within the company’s goal of being a leading provider of
select financial services in “targeted markets”.  “We remain committed to the U.S. banking business and the
Caribbean banking business,” Stymiest said. “We are very
focused in terms of our commitment to the U.S. and turning it
around.”  U.S. Expansion  Royal Bank  spent  about $4.6 billion on U.S. consumer banks
since 2001, when it entered the U.S. market with its $2.1
billion takeover of Centura Banks. Royal Bank has spent more
than a year reorganizing the consumer lender since taking a C$1
billion writedown on the business in April 2009.  Royal Bank exited the U.S. life and health insurance
business in October when it sold Liberty Life Insurance a decade
after buying it for $650 million. The bank reported a C$116
million loss today from that sale.  The goal revision doesn’t suggest Royal Bank will stop
investing in Caribbean banking, U.S. banking and the RBC Dexia
custodial business, Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon  said.  “I would say it’s more of a tweak of our goals to be
consistent with what we’ve been building over the last period of
time,” Nixon said during a conference call with analysts today.
“Our truly global businesses are wealth management and capital
markets.”  Wealth Management  “Our aspiration is not to build a global retail banking
operation,” Nixon said. “If you look at what we’re going to do
in China and India and South America and Europe, it’s going to
be geared towards wealth management and capital markets.”  Nixon said in a March interview that “everything is on the
table” in weighing options for its U.S. consumer bank,
including a sale, merger or takeovers to revive the business.  Buying troubled U.S. banks “is not a short-term priority
for us because we’re very focused on fixing what we’ve got,”
Stymiest said today.  James Westlake , who oversees international banking for
Royal Bank, said he expects his division to have quarterly
profits during fiscal 2011. That may not be enough for investors
like Schwartz.  “The results have been lousy in international,” Schwartz
said. “It’s time to cut the cord and move on.”  Royal Bank  fell  C$2.47, or 4.4 percent, to C$53.25 by the 4
p.m. close of trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the biggest
drop since May 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Doug Alexander  in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
 Sean B. Pasternak  in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  