-- Trustee in Madoff Case Files $3.14 Million Sealed Suit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2010-12-03T19:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/trustee-in-madoff-case-files-3-14-billion-sealed-suit-update1-.html
(Corrects with trustee’s revision of court records
regarding amount of damages sought in headline and first
paragraph of story originally published yesterday.)  The trustee liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s investment firm filed a $3.14 million lawsuit against
an unnamed company.  The complaint against “XYZ Corp.” was filed under seal
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. The docket entry
for the lawsuit listed the demand as “$3135671000,” or $3.14
billion.  The trustee, New York attorney  Irving Picard , said the
number listed in the court docket was wrong and the correct
amount is $3.14 million.  Picard earlier today filed a complaint against  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. , seeking $6.4 billion for the bank allegedly
enabling Madoff’s fraud. The lawsuit against JPMorgan was also
filed under seal, according to a statement by Picard. The New
York-based bank said the trustee’s claims were “irresponsible
and over-reaching.”  Over the past week, Picard has sued hundreds of so-called
“net winners,” investors who withdrew more from their Madoff
accounts than they invested. Picard, supported by a ruling in
the case from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland , claims such
fictitious profits must be returned to the bankruptcy estate and
paid out to all of Madoff’s victims with valid claims.  The case against the unidentified company is Irving Picard
v. XYZ Corp., 10-ap-05106, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  The JPMorgan lawsuit is Picard v. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
10-ap-04932, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Edvard Pettersson  in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 