-- Samsung Promotes Scions as Lee Family Shows Resilience of `Chaebol' Model
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2010-12-03T07:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/samsung-promotes-chairman-s-son-daughter-as-lee-family-tightens-its-grip.html
Samsung Electronics Co. , the world’s
largest maker of televisions and flat screens, promoted the
chairman’s son to  president  as the founding family tightens its
grip on South Korea’s biggest industrial group.  Lee Jae Yong , 42, will report to Chief Executive Officer
Choi Gee Sung, Samsung Group said in a statement today. His
sister, Lee Boojin, 40, was named president of Samsung Everland
Inc., chief executive officer of affiliate  Hotel Shilla Co . and
adviser to Samsung C&T Corp.  The promotions pave the way for Lee and his sister to prove
their ability to lead a group of nearly 70 companies generating
annual sales of about $200 billion. The move also highlights the
resilience of the family-run “chaebol” business model, which
has spearheaded South Korea’s industrialization since the 1960s
and been blamed by the International Monetary Fund for pushing
the country into financial crisis in 1997.  “We really don’t know what goes on in terms of governance
at Samsung because there’s so much done behind closed doors,”
said  Tom Coyner , who helps advise foreign investors in South
Korea as president of Soft Landing Consulting Ltd. in Seoul.
“The results to a large extent speak for themselves.”  Samsung Electronics , the group’s flagship unit, climbed 4.1
percent to a  record  high of 894,000 won at the 3 p.m. close of
trading in Seoul. The benchmark Kospi index rose 0.4 percent.  Samsung Group’s 67 affiliates generated 220 trillion won
($193 billion) in sales last year, equivalent to a fifth of
South Korea’s gross domestic product, according to figures from
the Fair Trade Commission and the Bank of Korea.  Management Overhaul  Samsung Electronics CEO Choi will also be vice chairman,
according to the statement.  Samsung Mobile Display  CEO  Kang Homoon  was named vice chairman of Samsung China Headquarters and
will be replaced by the head of the head of Samsung
Electronics’s memory-chip business.  Park Sang Jin, head of the digital imaging division at
Samsung Electronics, was named CEO of  Samsung SDI Co. , replacing
 Choi Chihun , who will become CEO of  Samsung Card Co .  Lee Jae Yong, who studied at Harvard Business School and
Japan’s Keio University, joined Samsung Electronics in 1991. His
roles in the company have included being the chief customer
officer and vice president at the strategic planning division.
He was promoted to executive vice president and chief operating
officer in December 2009.  “There are no real achievements that show off his
management skills,” said  Lee Jin Woo , a fund manager at KTB
Asset Management in Seoul. “As long as he can show he’s
capable, family management won’t be an issue.”  Sibling Leaders  Samsung said that as COO, Lee has strengthened
relationships with key global customers and business partners
and helped solidify Samsung’s chip and display businesses by
leading preemptive business investments.  “He is expected to continue to strengthen the
competiveness of Samsung’s strategic businesses and to lay the
foundation for Samsung’s future new growth businesses,”
according to the statement.  His sister is credited with playing a “pivotal” role in
improving profitability at  Hotel Shilla  and Samsung Everland,
according to Samsung.  Under their father  Lee Kun-Hee , who’s led the group since
he took over from his father in 1987, Samsung Electronics shares
have jumped more than 70-fold, surpassing the market values of
 Hewlett-Packard Co .,  Sony Corp . and  Texas Instruments Inc .  Olympic Pardon  The chairman returned to Samsung after he received a
presidential pardon over a conviction of tax evasion so he could
help Korea’s bid to host the 2018 Winter Olympics. He stepped
down and dismantled the group’s central strategic planning
office in 2008 after the tax evasion charge and claims that he
breached his fiduciary duty by causing losses at Samsung Group.  Lee Jae Yong’s promotion marks Samsung’s return to its
former “closed governance” system,” the  Citizens’ Coalition
for Economic Justice , an activist group, said in a statement.  The appointments come at a time when a family feud between
Hyundai Group and Hyundai Motor Group over the control of
 Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co.  is reviving investor
concern over the chaebol.  LG Electronics Inc.  brought in a member of the founding
family in September by naming  Koo Bon Joon , a younger brother of
 LG Group  Chairman Koo Bon Moo, as the chief executive officer.  The chaebol emerged in South Korea after Park Chung Hee,
who seized the country’s presidency through a military coup in
1961, promoted industrialization through multiyear economic
plans. The IMF cited the chaebol’s debt-driven practices as part
of the reason the economy landed in a financial crisis at the
end of 1997.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jun Yang  in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
 Shinhye Kang  in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 