-- San Diego`s 'Radical Idea' May Help Cities Slash $382 Billion Pension Gap
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-12-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/san-diego-s-radical-idea-may-help-cities-slash-382-billion-pension-gap.html
Cities from New York to San Jose,
California, facing almost $400 billion in unfunded pension
liabilities, will be watching what San Diego Mayor  Jerry Sanders 
calls his “ radical idea ” to cut costs.  After voters in the eighth most-populous U.S. city rejected
a half-cent sales tax increase to balance the budget Nov. 2,
Sanders is pushing to eliminate pension plans for new city
employees, offering 401(k)-like savings accounts instead.  Sanders’s plan, which would replace a pensioner’s certain
return with a market-based benefit, exemplifies cities’ struggle
to escape the pincers of falling tax revenue and rising
retirement costs that consume as much as a fifth of their
budgets. The longest recession since the Great Depression cut
receipts in 2010 the most in 25 years, the National League of
Cities said last month.  “We’re all going to have to get realistic,” Sanders, a
60-year-old Republican, said in a telephone interview. “The
private sector went through this. Government will have to relook
at how we do stuff as well.”  Stock-market losses left 50 of the largest municipal
pension plans with an unfunded gap of $382 billion as of June
2009, according to  Joshua Rauh , a professor at Northwestern
University’s Kellogg School of Management in Evanston, Illinois.
That’s the equivalent of $14,000 per household in those cities,
or more than three years of  revenue .  “It’s a double whammy,” Rauh said in a telephone
interview. “Exactly at the time when tax revenues are down, so
are their pension portfolios.”  Opaque Numbers  There are no standardized reporting rules for analyzing
municipal retirement costs, said  Gary Pollack , who helps oversee
$12 billion as head of fixed-income trading at  Deutsche Bank
AG ’s Private Wealth Management unit in New York.  “I’d like to see some uniformity, so you can make
comparisons without a magnifying glass,” Pollack said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a long-term problem which needs to
be addressed.”  What is certain is that the percentage of general-fund
spending on retirement benefits has in the past decade more than
doubled in some of the largest U.S. cities, leading to cuts in
services and jobs.  The problem mirrors that in states, where only half could
pay for 80 percent of promised benefits in their 2009 fiscal
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Not for Cops  About 15 states let employees join so-called defined-
contribution plans similar to the 401(k), according to the Baton
Rouge, Louisiana-based National Association of State Retirement
Administrators. Nationally, only 17 percent of public-sector
workers are in such plans, versus 41 percent in the private
sector, according to the  Employee Benefits Research Institute  in
Washington.  Sanders’s defined-contribution plan would apply to civilian
employees in the city of 1.3 million. Police and firefighters
would not be eligible, because lower benefits might hurt
recruiting, he said.  His idea, which he’ll ask voters to approve, “will likely
be explored by other cities,” Christopher Hoene, research
director for the Washington-based National League of Cities,
said in an e-mail.  Chuck Reed , mayor of  San Jose , 460 miles (740 kilometers)
north of San Diego, said Sanders inspired him to tackle his
city’s pension.  “San Diego is the leader, the bleeding edge,” he said.
“They’ve been ahead of the rest of us on this.”  San Jose, which is America’s 10th-most populous city and
has 1 million residents, increased payouts to police and
firefighters three times in the past 15 years, lifting the
maximum benefit to 90 percent of their salary. In 1995, it was
75 percent, according to a September presentation by the mayor.  Boom Times  The changes came as the population of the Silicon Valley
municipality climbed 20 percent and housing prices doubled,
according to  City-Data.com . Benefits enacted when times were
good cost dearly, Reed, a 62-year-old Democrat, said in a
telephone interview.  “Health-care costs keep going up, but the retirement part
was self-inflicted,” Reed said. “We thought when we were rich
that it would last forever.”  Instead, the bills came due.  San Jose voters approved two pension-related measures Nov.
2. One reduces arbitrators’ power to determine municipal
employee contracts. Another lets the city create a second tier
of benefits for new workers, Reed said.  Potholes and Sidewalks  In Los Angeles, pensions and health care will cost more
than $800 million or 18 percent of revenue this year, according
to City Administrative Officer  Miguel Santana . Ten years ago,
they cost $164 million or 5.1 percent.  The nation’s second-biggest municipality, with nearly 4
million people, has eliminated 3,500 positions and closed
libraries two days a week, Santana said. It is making only
temporary asphalt repairs to sidewalks and filling one-third
fewer potholes, said Lisa Hansen, a city spokeswoman.  New York City will cut 10,000 jobs during the next 18
months. That will help pay for an 18.5 percent increase in
pension costs, to $8.3 billion, or 20 percent of projected tax
revenue in 2012, according to  Marc LaVorgna , a mayoral
spokesman. A decade ago, New York’s pension costs were 4.8
percent of revenue.  Big Drag  “A 10,000-job reduction represents a significant drag on
the economy,” said  James Parrot , chief economist at the
nonpartisan Fiscal Policy Institute in New York. “That’s almost
half the projected job growth for next year.”  Yesterday, New York City’s chief actuary,  Robert North ,
joined Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  and City Comptroller  John Liu  in
predicting that the nation’s most populous city will lower the
assumed return on its $106.2 billion pension investments from
the current 8 percent rate.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Pittsburgh’s City Council in October rejected Mayor  Luke Ravenstahl ’s proposal to lease parking garages to raise
$452 million for pensions, leaving the city of 311,000 to face a
state takeover of its plan next year, Joanna Doven, a mayoral
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview.  City pension costs will rise to $127 million from $45
million by 2017, according to a  release  from the mayor. The plan
is 34 percent funded, according to an actuarial report.  Ravenstahl is unwilling to issue “irresponsible new
debt” to pay for a continuing expense, she said: “It’s
just kicking the can down the road.”  Courts have ruled that pension benefits for existing
employees cannot be removed, San Diego City Attorney  Jan Goldsmith  said in a telephone interview.  Yanking the Rug  “You can’t promise someone something for 30 years and pull
the rug out from under them when they retire,”  Michael Zucchet ,
general manager of the San Diego Municipal Employees
Association, said in a telephone interview.  Putting future hires into defined-contribution plans will
not reduce current shortfalls,  Steven Kreisberg , director of
collective bargaining and health-care policy at the Washington-
based American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees, the country’s largest public employee union, said in
a telephone interview.  Costs will rise because cities will keep traditional plans
operating with fewer members, he said.  “The only way to address underfunding is to fund,” he
said.  Sanders said San Diego’s plan will cost less “simply
because you’re paying as you go, not racking up this huge
deficit.” An actuary will create a savings estimate before an
as-yet-unscheduled ballot measure, he said.  ‘Enron by the Sea’  San Diego earned the nickname “Enron by the Sea” for a
pension-fund scandal that led to the resignation of a previous
mayor and half a dozen city officials. The city settled claims
by the  Securities and Exchange Commission  in 2006 that it
committed fraud when it failed to make adequate disclosures to
investors about a pension fund shortfall.  Sanders, a former police chief elected in 2005, has
supported changes to the benefit  plans . The city eliminated
retiree health coverage for employees hired after 2005. Last
year, San Diego reduced its maximum pension payouts and cut in
half to 8.75 percent the city’s contribution for new employees.  The defined-contribution plan is unnecessary because the
city has already reduced benefits for future hires, said
Zucchet, the union head.  “We’ve been cutting for five years,” he said. “We’re
five years ahead of the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  