-- Sarah Palin, Indra Nooyi Can Agree on This: Sylvia Ann Hewlett
-- B y   S y l v i a   A n n   H e w l e t t
-- 2010-12-03T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/sarah-palin-indra-nooyi-agree-on-this-commentary-by-sylvia-ann-hewlett.html
The rare cases of a woman being
sponsored for the top slot by a powerful male tend to stick in
one’s mind.  Indra Nooyi  -- chosen in 2007 by  PepsiCo Inc.  Chief
Executive Officer  Steven Reinemund  to succeed him as CEO. At the
time, Nooyi wasn’t considered the top candidate, but Reinemund
saw her as the right person to lead the company into a more
sustainable future.  Sarah Palin  -- picked by  John McCain  as his running mate on
the Republican ticket in 2008. An unknown governor from a
faraway state, Palin wasn’t on anyone’s radar, but McCain saw
her as jump-starting his lackluster campaign with refreshing
heartland energy.  Whether one agrees with Nooyi’s vision for PepsiCo or
Palin’s vision for the Republican Party, one thing is for sure:
Neither would be the notables they are without powerful
sponsors. Unfortunately, most women don’t get similar backing,
and they pay a huge price.  Here are the facts:  In spite of their progress on the lower and middle rungs of
the career ladder, women aren’t making it to the top. In the
U.S., women hold only 15 percent of seats on corporate boards,
account for less than 5 percent of top earners and make up a
mere 3 percent of Fortune 500 CEOs.  Those last slippery rungs are extraordinarily difficult for
women to climb. To be sure, at the most senior levels the
competition is fierce and many men and women fail. But men reach
the top in much more impressive numbers. Why?  Lack of Push  A new study from the  Center for Work-Life Policy , to be
published next month by the  Harvard Business Review , sheds new
light on this question. Women who are top performers stall out
not for lack of drive, but for lack of push. They simply don’t
have the powerful backing needed to prepare them, propel them
and protect them through the perilous straits of senior
management.  In a word, women lack sponsors. While executive women have
tons of mentors dispensing friendly advice, they’re half as
likely as executive men to have a sponsor.  What is a sponsor? A sponsor is a powerful executive in the
direct line of command who uses up chips on behalf of a protege
and advocates for the next promotion. They provide introductions
to key clients and customers, promote visibility with corporate
bigwigs, and open the door to power. The data show that this
high-octane help boosts prospects for advancement by 23 percent
for men and 19 percent for women.  Sounds straightforward -- yet women have difficulty
developing these powerful relationships. The new research
uncovers some serious tripwires.  Misplaced Beliefs  The first is that high-performing women frequently
underestimate the pivotal role that relationships play in
advancement, choosing to believe hard work and bottom-line
results will net them their due reward. Many feel that getting
ahead based on who you know is an unfair, even dirty, tactic.
This belief in meritocracy persists, even as they’re passed over
for a plum assignment, a pay raise or a promotion.  The study also shows that women’s reluctance to seek out
senior male sponsors may be amply justified. The typical
sponsorship relationship -- an older, married man spending one-
on-one time, sometimes off-site and after-hours, with a younger,
often-unmarried woman -- can look a lot like an affair.  Power Disparity  The greater the power disparity between the male and the
female, the more intense the speculation becomes that the
relationship is more than professional -- with potential
penalties for both. If the woman is subsequently promoted, her
achievement may be undermined by office gossip. Nor does the
senior man walk away scot-free. If it looks like he spent too
much time with the junior woman, he incurs the risk of a sexual-
harassment suit or even dismissal.  The data in the new study are sobering: Fear of being
suspected of an illicit sexual liaison causes 64 percent of
senior male executives to avoid one-on-one contact with junior
women; for the same reason, 50 percent of junior women hesitate
to initiate or cultivate such contact with a male superior.  The good news is that the word on sponsorship is out: New
York-based research group  Catalyst , as well as the CWLP, has a
new study that highlights the critical importance of sponsors
and a sizable group of corporate heavy-hitters, including
 American Express Co. , Deloitte LLP, Morgan Stanley and Intel
Corp. are experimenting with initiatives that make sponsorship
much more available to high-performing women.  As companies step up their programs, they should heed two
warnings. First, sponsorship will only work if female proteges
are given a crack at the real deal (sponsors) and not some
watered-down version (mentors). Second, sponsorship will only
work if companies confront head-on the damage done by illicit
sexual relationships. Right now, 53 percent of organizations are
silent on the subject of an illicit affair between a manager and
a subordinate.  This needs to change. In a world where sponsorship is
dangerous, it will not be used, and women will continue to stall
out in middle management.  ( Sylvia Ann Hewlett  is founding president of the Center for
Work-Life Policy. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Sylvia Ann Hewlett at  sahewlett@worklifepolicy.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  