-- Sarkozy Seeking to Sell Military Aircraft, Nuclear Reactors on India Visit
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2010-12-03T07:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/sarkozy-seeking-to-sell-military-aircraft-nuclear-reactors-on-india-visit.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
arrives in India tomorrow seeking a slice of its multi-billion
dollar military spending and pushing  Areva SA ’s bid to sell at
least two nuclear reactors.  Sarkozy will escort 50 chief executives, including those of
aircraft-makers Dassault Aviation and  EADS , on a presidential
sales trip sandwiched between those of U.S. leader  Barack Obama 
and Russia’s  Dmitri Medvedev . Each has companies racing for
contracts, including India’s planned purchase of $11 billion in
jet fighters.  “France is not a top player in India but it has had a
steady and supporting role,” Gilles Boquerat, an analyst at the
 French Institute for International Relations  in Paris, said in
an interview. “India, for historical and obvious business
reasons, has made France one of the top two countries on its
list for future civil nuclear-energy deals.”  To boost French economic and employment recovery amid
Europe’s debt crisis, Sarkozy will push for sales of submarines
as well as combat jets, plus transport and renewable-energy
deals. Chief executives with him will include  Alstom SA ’s
 Patrick Kron  and MBDA’s  Antoine Bouvier , as well as Dassault’s
 Charles Edelstenne  and  EADS ’s  Louis Gallois .  As current leader of the Group of 20 nations, Sarkozy also
will seek support from Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  for
his plans to overhaul the global monetary system and regulate
commodities markets.  French-Indian Trade  Sarkozy will land in Bangalore to visit the  Indian Space
Research Organisation . The next day he and his wife,  Carla Bruni-Sarkozy , visit the Taj Mahal in Agra, and on Dec. 6
Sarkozy will meet Singh in New Delhi. In Mumbai on Dec. 7, the
French president will attend a business conference.  France was India’s fifth-biggest trading partner in 2009,
according to India’s government spokesman,  Vishnu Prakash .
French-Indian trade in the first nine months of this year was
worth 5.3 billion euros ($7 billion), down from 7.1 billion
euros in 2008 because of the crisis, according to the French
government.  Sarkozy is struggling to keep France’s position as fifth
largest arms seller to India, behind Russia, Israel, the U.K.
and Germany, according to data collected by the  Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute .  India has increased defense spending partly in response to
China’s military build-up. A report by the New Delhi office of
 accounting firm KPMG  and the Confederation of Indian Industry in
January showed the Defense Ministry budget is $32 billion for
2010. India plans to spend $112 billion over the next six years
to renew or upgrade equipment.  Selling Weapons  French arms purchases “are something that India is very
open to because there is a strong desire that we should not put
all of our eggs into one basket,” said Nivedita Das Kundu, a
research fellow on Indian foreign relations at the government-
backed  Indian Council of World Affairs  in New Delhi.  Sarkozy will seek to advance talks on an Indian Air Force
tender from 2007 to buy 126 warplanes worth $11 billion, the
world’s biggest fighter-jet purchase in 15 years. Paris-based
 Dassault Aviation SA , with its  Rafale , is competing with
Chicago-based  Boeing Co. ,  Lockheed Martin Corp ., Stockholm-based
Saab AB , European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co. , which has
headquarters in Paris and Munich, and Moscow-based  OAO United
Aircraft Corp .  “The  Rafale  has minimum chances because India is looking
for jets that have already been exported,”  Siemon Wezeman , a
senior fellow at SIPRI, said in an interview.  Aircraft Upgrades  India’s top diplomat for western European affairs, Joint
Secretary T.P. Seetharam, told reporters in New Delhi on Dec. 1
that while no major defense deals are likely to be signed during
Sarkozy’s stay, the visit is likely to advance plans for French
companies to upgrade 51  Mirage-2000  jet fighters built by
Dassault for the Indian Air Force 30 years ago.  Thales SA  will push to clinch the upgrade deal that may
include new avionics and radar and be worth up to $2 billion, La
Tribune newspaper reported on Sept. 28.  France and India may sign a preliminary contract that would
bring  Areva  closer to an agreement to build two 1,650 megawatt
nuclear reactors at Jaitapur and supply them with uranium, Press
Trust of India agency reported on Nov. 24, citing Nuclear Power
Corp. of India Ltd. representatives.  Areva, the  world’s biggest nuclear-reactor builder , signed
a preliminary sales agreement in February 2009 with Nuclear
Power Corp. The project passed a key hurdle on Nov. 28 when
India’s  Environment Ministry  gave its approval.  Areva’s chief executive officer,  Anne Lauvergeon , told  a
French Senate commission  on Nov. 24 that negotiations were in
the final stage and to expect “good news.”  The British government in July said it would permit the
export of nuclear technology to India for the first time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Helene Fouquet  in Paris 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
 James Rupert  in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 