-- Saudi Arabia May Boost Arab Light Oil to Highest Price Since August 2009
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 2010-12-03T05:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/saudi-arabia-may-boost-arab-light-oil-to-highest-price-since-august-2009.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
biggest crude exporter, may raise the official selling prices of
all of its January-loading supplies to Asia as a surge in
processing profits boosts demand for crude.  Arab Light , Saudi Arabia’s largest export type, may be
increased by 78 cents from December, according to the median of
six responses from officials in a Bloomberg News survey of
regional refiners. That would put the price at a premium of
$1.15 a barrel to the average of Persian Gulf benchmarks Oman
and Dubai, the highest since August 2009.  Arab Extra Light  may
be raised by 78 cents, said the officials, who asked to remain
unidentified, citing company policy. That would set the level at
a $1.25 premium to the benchmarks, the most since June.  A shortage of diesel in China pushed up premiums for
cargoes traded in the spot market to three-year highs. The
supply crunch also help raise  processing profits  for turning
crude into gasoil to $14.32 a barrel on Nov. 15, the highest
since January 2009, according to data from PVM Oil Associates.  “The middle of the barrel has remained supported by
China’s buying spree of gasoil in response to diesel
shortages,” Vienna-based consultants JBC Energy GmbH said in
their weekly Asian report. “Considering current levels and
market fundamentals, we may expect the high price environment to
stay around a bit longer.”  Arab Heavy , the country’s densest grade, may climb by 58
cents from December, according to the survey.  Arab Medium  may
also rise by 58 cents, the respondents said.  Fuel Oil Discount  Increases in Arab Heavy and Medium will be tempered by a
widening in fuel oil’s discount to Dubai crude. That price
pushed out to minus $7.82 a barrel on Nov. 9, the lowest since
May 4. Both grades yield more fuel oil after basic processing.  Saudi Aramco’s Extra Light and Light crudes yield a greater
volume of diesel after processing than the company’s other
export grades.  Last month, Saudi Aramco raised the price of Arab Light and
Extra Light grades for December loading for buyers in Asia.  Arab Light climbed 45 cents to a discount of 5 cents a
barrel to the Oman and Dubai average. Extra Light increased 95
cents to a premium of $1.80 and Super Light, the grade with the
largest naphtha yield, jumped $1.45 to a premium of $3.35.  Arab Medium rose 20 cents to a discount of $1.60 a barrel
to the benchmark’s average. Arab Heavy climbed 10 cents to a
discount of $3.10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Schmollinger  in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  