-- SEC Proposes Swap Dealer, Participant Definitions Required by Dodd-Frank
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-12-03T16:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/sec-weighs-dodd-frank-definition-of-swap-dealers-to-match-cftc-s-proposal.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission proposed definitions to determine which firms will
face higher capital and margin requirements under new rules for
the $583 trillion over-the-counter swaps market.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 today to seek comment on
proposals designed to match those endorsed by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission in a 3-2 vote on Dec. 1. The two
Washington-based agencies are charged with revamping oversight
of derivatives markets under the Dodd-Frank law.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted in
July, aims to shift most swaps to clearinghouses, exchanges and
other trading platforms to increase transparency after largely
unregulated trades complicated efforts to resolve the credit
crisis in 2008. The law gives the SEC authority over securities-
based swaps, with the CFTC overseeing the rest of the market.  The SEC proposal defines security-based swap dealers as
firms that are commonly understood to be security-based swaps
dealers, make a market in security-based swaps and regularly
enter such swaps with counterparties. The measure provides an
exclusion for firms that enter into such swaps for their own
accounts on an irregular basis.  “The definitions are the foundation of the regulatory
structure we are building,” said Commissioner  Elisse Walter , a
Democrat who joined other members in welcoming industry comment
on how the proposed standards would affect market participants.  Three-Part Test  The SEC and CFTC are required to spell out details of a
three-part test for determining whether a firm is a major swap
participant. The proposals released this week flesh out the
tests for whether a firm has a “substantial position” in a
swaps market, whether it is using swaps to hedge or mitigate
commercial risk and whether it is highly leveraged.  Designation as a major swap participant would subject a
firm to higher capital, margin and business-conduct standards.
CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in September that 200 global
financial firms might fall under his agency’s swap-dealer
definition.  The SEC estimated that there may be 50 security-based swap
dealers under the definition proposed today. About 10 firms, the
agency estimated, may need to run tests to determine if they
need to register as major security-based swap participants.  SEC Commissioner  Troy Paredes , a Republican, backed the
proposal while expressing concern that the thresholds for
defining swaps dealers and major swaps participants would
include firms that don’t pose systemic risk to markets.  The definitions will be subject to public comment for 60
days, and the proposals won’t become official until they pass
second votes from both the SEC and the CFTC.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial instruments
used to hedge risks or for speculation. They’re derived from
stocks, bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to
specific events like changes in the weather or interest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
 Jesse Hamilton  in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 