-- U.S. Senate Sets Votes on Two Proposals to Extend Middle-Class Tax Cuts
-- B y   R y a n   J .   D o n m o y e r   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2010-12-03T21:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/senate-to-vote-on-extending-bush-era-tax-cuts-as-talks-continue.html
Senate Democrats defended their plan
for weekend votes on two proposals that would extend Bush-era
tax cuts only for middle-income taxpayers while conceding the
measures are unlikely to pass.  Procedural votes on the two proposals were scheduled for
10:30 a.m. Washington tomorrow time by Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  of Nevada. Republicans said Democrats are engaging in
political theatrics to consider extending only some of the tax
cuts while President  Barack Obama  is negotiating a possible
extension of all tax rates for several years.  The tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003 expire on Dec. 31.  “Americans don’t want to see meaningless theater in
Congress; they want us to do something about the economy,”
Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky said in a
floor speech today.  New York Senator  Charles E. Schumer , the Senate’s No. 3
Democrat, conceded that neither proposal is likely to succeed
because Democrats need 60 votes to overcome procedural hurdles
in the Senate. The  Democrats  control 58 votes.  A defeat of the proposals would increase pressure on
negotiators to reach a compromise, and Obama said yesterday that
he is “confident” one will emerge before Dec. 31.  ‘Putting Pressure’  “This is an opening salvo for an argument that will
continue for a very long time,” Schumer told reporters. The
votes, he said, are about “putting pressure” on Republicans
“to come around to the view of what America wants, what’s right
for the country and we are going to keep doing it.”  The Senate votes follow yesterday’s House passage of a
measure to extend lower rates only for middle-class Americans.
The Senate proposals include a version of the House bill, which
sustains lower rates only on the first $250,000 of  married
couples’ annual income, and another that would extend the lower
rates on the first $1 million of income.  Republicans have vowed to block any measure that doesn’t
extend all of the Bush-era tax policies, saying that expiration
of the lower rates for upper-income taxpayers would hurt job
creation and the economic recovery.  “They want only permanency for the so-called middle class,
but forget about small-business people who pour their money back
into their business to be able to create jobs,” said Utah
Senator  Orrin Hatch , set to be the ranking Republican on the
Finance Committee in January.  ‘Opening Round’  Connecticut Senator  Joe Lieberman , an independent who
caucuses with the Democrats, said after a meeting of Senate
Democrats yesterday, “This is like the opening round in which
each party will set out their wish lists. None of them have
enough votes.”  The House vote was 234-188 for the measure, which would
permanently extend lower rates and expanded tax credits on the
first $200,000 of individuals’ income and the first $250,000 for
married couples who file joint returns. Taxpayers with higher
annual incomes would face increased taxes on wages, capital
gains and dividends.  Meanwhile, a six-member panel appointed Nov. 30 by the
president and congressional leaders to negotiate the tax issue
plans to continue its talks.  Two people familiar with the talks said Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  asked for a line-by-line review of a package of
more than 70 provisions, most of which expired last year.  Tax-Cut Talks  Much of the group’s first three meetings have focused on
educating Geithner and Budget Director  Jack Lew  about the
provisions, known on Capitol Hill as “tax extenders” because
they are renewed almost routinely, the people said. About 80
percent of the provisions benefit businesses.  Shortly after the meeting broke up yesterday, Senate
Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  introduced a comprehensive
bill that extends lower rates on income, as well as capital
gains and dividends, only on the first $250,000 of a married
couple’s income. His measure, one of the two bills to be
considered tomorrow, also would reinstate the federal estate tax
in 2011 with a top rate of 45 percent and $3.5 million tax-free
allowance, both of which were in place in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ryan J. Donmoyer  in Washington at 
 rdonmoyer@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Rubin  in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  