-- Slim's $2 Billion Wager on Net Propels Bonds Beyond Rivals: Brazil Credit
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-12-03T11:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/slim-s-2-billion-wager-on-net-propels-bonds-beyond-rivals-brazil-credit.html
Net Servicos de Comunicacao SA ’s
bonds are beating those of Latin American media companies after
 Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man, boosted his stake in
Brazil’s biggest cable TV-provider.  Net’s 7.5 percent bonds due in 2020 have returned 1.8
percent in the past two months, compared with a 0.1 percent gain
in a regional index of media company debt compiled by Credit
Suisse Group AG. The securities also outperformed Brazilian
 corporate debt , which sank 0.9 percent during the same period,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show.  Slim’s America Movil SAB, Latin America’s largest wireless
carrier, spent $2 billion on Oct. 7 to stockpile preferred
shares in Net as the Mexican billionaire seeks to combine
mobile-phone operations with home-phone, Internet and TV
services in Brazil to lure customers from Madrid-based
Telefonica SA.  Embratel Participacoes SA , America Movil’s
Brazilian unit, had a 79 percent stake in Net as of Oct. 26.  “That was a very large investment, which signals to the
market that they intend to fully support this entity,”  Chris Buck , a Latin America corporate debt analyst at Barclays Plc in
New York, said in a telephone interview. “It’s been partially
priced and more of it should be priced in.”  Net’s bonds also beat U.S. corporate debt, which is down
0.9 percent in the past two months, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  The yield on the Sao Paulo-based company’s $350 million of
bonds dropped 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, since
Oct. 1 to 5.43 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Financial Support’  Standard & Poor’s changed the outlook on Net’s BB+ rating
to positive from stable on Nov. 16, saying America Movil’s
growing stake in the company may prompt it to raise the ranking
by at least one level. Moody’s Investors Service rates Net  Ba1 ,
in line with S&P and one level below investment grade.  “Until now, we have not incorporated any kind of financial
support from Net’s shareholders in our analysis,” Flavia
Bedran, an S&P analyst in Sao Paulo, wrote in a report.  In addition to the preferred shares that America Movil
owns, it has a 49 percent stake in the holding company that
controls Net through its common shares. Globo Comunicacao e
Participacoes SA, Brazil’s biggest television network, owns the
other 51 percent. Under a five-year-old agreement, Rio de
Janeiro-based Globo would transfer control of Net to America
Movil should congress approve legislation allowing foreign
ownership of Brazilian cable-TV companies.  The bill was sent to the Brazilian Senate in June after the
lower house approved it. Senator  Romero Juca , the leader of the
ruling coalition in the upper house, said he expects a vote on
the bill by the end of the month.  ‘Big Positive’  “It’s important that we approve it soon because that
defines an important sector for investments in the country,”
 Juca  said in an interview yesterday in Brasilia.  Moody’s may review its rating on Net once the law on
foreign ownership is passed,  Ricardo Kovacs , an analyst in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview.  “It’s something that has clearly a lot of political
support and it’s only a matter of it becoming more of a priority
to actually get it done,” Barclay’s Buck said. “It’s a big
positive for Net bonds.”  Net , with 4.1 million pay-TV customers, has expanded into
phone and Internet service over its cable lines to lure
customers from phone companies such as Telefonica’s
Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA. Gains in phone and Web clients
helped boost earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization to 1.11 billion reais ($654.1 million) in the first
nine months of this year, up 24 percent from the same period in
2009.  Slim  America Movil bought Slim’s Telmex Internacional SAB in a
$23 billion deal in June to acquire control of land-line phone
and cable networks throughout South America.  Slim, who passed  Bill Gates  and  Warren Buffett  for the top
spot on Forbes magazine’s annual list of billionaires, may be
reluctant to guarantee Net’s debt if he’s unable to gain control
of the company, said  Eric Ollom , chief emerging-markets
strategist at Jefferies & Co. in New York.  An America Movil official who can’t be named under company
policy declined to comment. Slim can only support Net’s finances
once the law changes and the performance of its bonds is due to
its “strong operational results,” Net said in an e-mail.  “Slim owns the majority of the company, but he doesn’t
have majority control,” Ollom said in a telephone interview.
“So it’s hard to see him guaranteeing the debt unless he has
control.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed 2
basis points to 176 at 6:27 a.m. New York time, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  Default Swaps  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years dropped 8 basis points to 109, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The yield on the overnight interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2012 fell 12 basis points to 12.12 percent.  The real dropped 0.1 percent to 1.6974.  The yield on Net’s bonds has tumbled 202 basis points since
May, according to Bloomberg data.  “Embratel will receive adequate financial support from its
ultimate parent company, which is America Movil, which is Carlos
Slim,” said Kovacs at Moody’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  