-- Snow Disrupts Trains, Planes Across Europe for Fifth Day
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2010-12-03T05:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/snow-cold-disrupt-travel-across-europe-for-fifth-day-gatwick-to-reopen.html
Snowstorms and freezing
temperatures are disrupting travel across Europe for a fifth
day as airports cancel flights and train operators limit
services.  Eurostar Group Ltd. plans to operate a “significantly
reduced” timetable until at least Dec. 5 and has halted all
ticket sales until Dec. 6, the company  said  on its website.
London’s Gatwick Airport, the U.K.’s second-busiest,  said  it
reopened this morning after being closed since Nov. 30.
Delays, cancellations and a limited service should be
expected, according to the airport’s website.  The earliest widespread snowfall in the U.K. since 1993
has frozen over roads, disrupting traffic, with icy weather
likely to last until at least Dec. 8, according to private
forecaster British  Weather  Services. The U.K.’s Met office
 warned  of widespread icy roads across Scotland’s Highlands
today and forecast temperatures to drop as low as minus 11
degrees Celsius (12 degrees Fahrenheit) in Scotland this
morning and as low as minus 5 degrees Celsius in London and
the southeast of England.  BAA Ltd.  said London’s Heathrow Airport was operating
normally, but faced delays and cancellations because of
disruptions elsewhere. The company predicted there may be
further disruption at Edinburgh Airport today, advising
passengers to contact their airlines before traveling.  Dublin  reopened  at 6:40 p.m. yesterday after services
were suspended as snow fell in the afternoon. Airports in
Edinburgh, Geneva and London City resumed operations during
the day.  Single Runway  At Gatwick, about 1,200 flights have been canceled over
48 hours. Britain’s largest airport after Heathrow and the
busiest in the world with a single runway typically attracts
about 70,000 passengers a day at this time of year, Chief
Executive Officer  Stewart Wingate  said yesterday.  On the continent, Paris’s major airports Charles de
Gaulle and Orly  expect  partial service disruption today.
Yesterday, France’s DGAC civil aviation authority ordered the
cancellation of one in four flights from Charles de Gaulle
and one in 10 from Orly.  SNCF, France’s national railway,  said  on its website
that it expects services today to be close to normal. Trains
may, however, operate at limited speeds, it said in a
statement on its website. All high-speed trains will run as
normal, all but one intercity service will be functioning,
while on regional lines about 75 percent of the trains will
be running, it said.  Yesterday, snow caused transport difficulties in
northern France, while one in five high-speed TGV trains
between Paris and the southern Riviera were canceled.  In the northern French region of Normandy, snow measured
53 centimeters near the town of  Gonneville , the biggest
snowfall on record, Meteo France said on its website.  Germany’s Busiest  Frankfurt Airport, Germany’s busiest, canceled 57
flights yesterday, largely because of closures at other
airports. About 100 flights were canceled in Munich.
Cancellations and delays are still expected today, according
to the airport website.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  canceled a number of Berlin
flights yesterday, spokesman  Thomas Jachnow  said, adding that
conditions in the German capital were similar to those at
other airports in Europe.  German state railway Deutsche Bahn AG warned passengers
of delays and possible cancellations as high-speed trains are
restricted to 200 kilometers (124 miles) an hour. Trains
between Nuremberg and Leipzig were rerouted because of
snowfall, spokeswoman Kathrin Fellenberg said by phone
yesterday.  Freezing temperatures and blowing snow were blamed for
12 deaths in northern Europe yesterday, while some of the
heaviest flooding in a century hit parts of the Balkans, the
Associated Press reported.  The area affected most in the U.K. was the south, from
Kent through Dorset, said Paul Watters, a spokesman for the
 Automobile Association . The rescue service responded to
18,000 calls on Dec. 1, and had 100,000 in the past six days,
he said.  Go-Ahead Group Plc ’s Southern Railway Ltd., which
operates commuter services from southeast England into London,
will run a reduced service today with snow and ice covering
much of the company’s network, Southern  said  on its website
today. Trains may be busier than normal as trains may be
formed with fewer carriages, the company said.  U.K. same-day gas rose for a fifth day yesterday, the
longest upward trend since October last year, with gas for
yesterday advancing 4 percent to 64.25 pence a therm as of
4:46 p.m. in London, according to broker data on Bloomberg.
About 80 percent of the country’s homes and businesses use
natural gas for heating. It’s also used to generate about
half of Britain’s electricity supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jack Jordan  in London at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
 Stuart Biggs  in Tokyo at 
sbiggs3@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 