-- U.S., South Korea Reach Deal to Rework Trade Agreement
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-03T22:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/south-korea-u-s-rework-trade-accord-to-appease-ford-on-tariff-timetable.html
The U.S. and South Korea reached an
agreement to change automobile provisions in a pending trade
deal, winning support from Ford Motor Co. and lawmakers.  Both nations will scale back the initial tariff cuts for
automobiles, and South Korea said it would allow more imports of
U.S.-made vehicles that meet American standards and not Korean
rules, according to fact sheets released today by the White
House. The U.S. will also keep its 25 percent tariff on truck
imports for eight years instead of beginning to phase it out
immediately.  With almost $68 billion in trade  between the nations , a
deal would be the U.S.’s largest since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994 and would help Obama meet his goal of
doubling American exports in five years. It has been supported
by companies such as Citigroup Inc. and Caterpillar Inc.  Obama and South Korea President Lee Myung Bak  failed to
seal a deal during a summit in Seoul last month, and trade
negotiators from both nations spent this week in Columbia,
Maryland, seeking to resolve differences. The agreement will
need to be approved by Congress before it goes into effect.  Under the terms of the reworked deal, the U.S. will end its
2.5 percent tariff on automobiles in five years, instead of
immediately or after three years as was previously agreed. Korea
will cut its 8 percent tariff on U.S. automobile imports to 4
percent immediately, instead of eliminating it entirely,
according to a White House fact sheet.  Ford’s Support  “These new provisions provide Ford greater confidence that
we will be able to better serve our Korean customers,” Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  said in an e-mailed statement.  “This was the only way to reverse the historic,
lopsided pattern of one-way trade with South Korea,”
Michigan Democrat  Sander Levin , chairman of the House Ways
and Means Committee and a critic of the earlier accord,
said in a statement. “I support today’s agreement.”  The two sides didn’t announce any changes on beef trade,
and it wasn’t clear how that would affect prospects for the
accord in the Senate. Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus had
demanded that Korea drop restrictions on imports of U.S. beef
from older cattle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  