-- Bonds in South Africa Rally as ECB Plan Prolongs Nation's Yield Advantage
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2010-12-03T15:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/south-african-bonds-advance-on-bets-ecb-plan-prolongs-the-yield-advantage.html
South African bonds rose on bets
investors bought the securities to benefit from their yield
advantage following the European Central Bank decision yesterday
to continue providing liquidity to its financial system.  The benchmark 13.5 percent security due September 2015
gained for a third day in four, climbing 42 cents to 124.47 rand
by 4:47 p.m. in Johannesburg. That reduced the yield by 9 basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 7.33 percent.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said late yesterday that
policy makers will continue offering banks unlimited loans
through the first quarter in an attempt to prevent the region’s
sovereign debt crisis from spreading. The decision marked a
shift from his stance last month, when he said the ECB may start
limiting access to its funds in the first quarter.  “The ECB’s continued provision of liquidity is going to
help the local bond market from a yield differential point of
view,” Trevor Barsdorf, an analyst at  Econometrix Treasury
Management , said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg.
“There is still some skittishness in the market but at current
levels, South African bonds offer good value to yield-seeking
offshore investors.”  Five-year bonds plunged in South Africa last week, raising
yields to the highest since August, on bets Portugal and Spain
could be forced to join Ireland in seeking a rescue package from
the European Union to deal with high levels of government debt.  “There was a bit of a healthy shake-out in the local bond
market after a very good run this year,” said Barsdorf.  Annual Surge  South African bonds have surged this year, pushing
benchmark yields down by 108 basis points, as the central bank
reduced its main interest rate to a record low  5.5 percent ,
boosting the allure of securities that guarantee a fixed return.
The rate compares with deposit returns of 0.25 percent in the
U.S. and 0.1 percent in Japan making South African bonds
attractive to investors seeking higher yield assets.  The rand traded little changed against the dollar at
6.8839, from a previous close of 6.8861. Against the euro, the
rand lost 1.2 percent to 9.2029, snapping a four-day advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Garth Theunissen  in Johannesburg 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  