-- South African `Canned' Lion Hunting to Resume After Appeal, IFAW Says
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n   a n d   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 2010-12-03T13:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/south-african-canned-lion-hunting-to-resume-after-appeal-ifaw-says.html
A South African court ruled that the
hunting of captive-bred lions shortly after their release into
the wild should be allowed to resume.  The Bloemfontein-based Supreme Court of Appeal this week
 struck down  a law hindering the practice, known as “canned
hunting” by its critics, after an appeal by the South African
Predator Breeders Association. The law stipulated that lions had
to roam free for two years after their release, making the
industry unviable.  “This ruling puts canned hunting right back on the agenda
and further entrenches South Africa’s image of a country that
puts animal welfare last while profiteering from an abhorrent
form of hunting practice,” the International Fund for Animal
Welfare said in an e-mail from its Cape Town office yesterday.  The breeders association has warned that the law would shut
an industry that employs 5,000 people because farmers can’t
afford to keep lions on their estates for long periods of time
due to the cost of the antelopes they eat. It warned that the
captive lions, which number as many as 5,000, may need to be
euthanized as the legislation reduced their commercial value.  “The most damage was caused by the uncertainty,” Carel
Van Heerden, the chairman of the association said in an
interview from Vryburg. “From a marketing perspective it has
hit hunters very badly.”  The association will seek a meeting with the environment
department to come to an agreement on how to conduct the
industry, he said. Albi Modise, a spokesman for the Department
of Environmental Affairs, said he was in Mexico and couldn’t
respond, referring questions to Roopa Singh, a spokeswoman who
wasn’t immediately available.  ‘Rational Basis’  Marthinus van Schalkwyk  was environment minister at the
time the law was altered.  “No doubt the minister was entitled to take account of the
strong opposition and even revulsion expressed by a substantial
body of public opinion to the hunting of captive bred lions,”
Judge Jonathan A. Heher said in the ruling, posted on the
website of the association. “But in providing an alternative he
was bound to rely on a rational basis. The evidence proves he
did not do so.”  The practice allows ranch owners to breed or acquire lions
before having them hunted for a fee on their property.  Most lion hunting is done by foreign tourists, who on
average pay about $22,000 to shoot one of the cats. A further
$18,000 is generated in the form of safari costs and the price
of having a lion stuffed for shipment back to the hunter’s home,
according to court documents.  Lions for Sale  Lions bred for hunting are often shot after just a few days
in the wild. In captivity they are mostly fed on donkey meat
bought from rural communities. After their release from breeding
cages they catch and eat game that the farmers have acquired for
their estates. An adult male lion can eat about six metric tons
of meat during a two-year period.  More than 300 lions are hunted in South Africa every year,
with trophy hunters coming from countries including the U.S.,
Russia and Spain. That makes South Africa the second-biggest
destination for lion hunting after Tanzania, where wild lions
are shot. About 1,000 lions are hunted each year in Africa.  The association displays  lions for sale  on its website with
the vendor Roux’tjie Roux saying from South Africa’s Free State
province that he sells lions for between 2,000 rand ($145) and
10,000 rand apiece to game ranches.  Roux, 64, has been breeding lions for 16 years and says
lion farming is better for the conservation of wildlife than
shooting wild cats. The hunting industry has made the breeding
of the animals economically viable, he said.  The ruling came more than a decade after a British
Broadcasting Corp. documentary showed a lioness being shot in a
small enclosure in South Africa in front of her cubs, leading to
international criticism.  The case is SA Predators Association, M C Mostert and D Cilliers
vs Minister of Environmental Affairs and Tourism, 72/10 in the
Supreme Court of Appeal of South Africa, Bloemfontein.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Antony Sguazzin  in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
 Nicky Smith  in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Matthew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 