-- Spain Raises Tobacco Tax, Sets Date for Pension Overhaul to Stem Contagion
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-12-03T16:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/spain-raises-tobacco-tax-sets-date-for-pension-overhaul-to-stem-contagion.html
Spain’s Cabinet raised tax on tobacco
and set a date for a pension overhaul as the Socialist
government tried to stem contagion from the Irish crisis that
sent its bond yields to the highest in a decade.  The Cabinet passed an increase in the tax, which will raise
780 million euros ($1 billion), and pledged to send a pension
bill to Parliament on Jan. 28, Finance Minister  Elena Salgado 
said today after a weekly meeting. It also approved measures
announced Dec. 1 including the sale of stakes in the lottery and
airports operator, and a reduction in taxes on small- and mid-
sized companies. The government will let an unemployment subsidy
that was created a year ago expire in February.  Spain’s government, which as recently as last week said it
didn’t need to take new measures to convince investors it would
meet its budget goals, announced the asset sales after Spanish
10-year bonds slid the most in the euro’s lifetime. The
government already slashed public wages and froze pensions at
the height of the Greek crisis in May, eroding support for Prime
Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , who had made welfare a
priority since coming to power in 2004.  “Time has run out; we have been talking for months,”
Deputy Prime Minister  Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba  told a news
conference in Madrid. “We are going to work even harder to
reach agreements.”  Overhaul Delayed  The planned pension overhaul, which includes an increase in
the retirement age to 67 years from 65 years, was first
announced in January and has been delayed as the government
waited for a parliamentary committee to present a report on the
proposed changes. Unions, once Zapatero’s allies, oppose the
changes and the main opposition People’s Party has also
criticized the plans.  The  extra yield  on Spanish 10-year bonds fell to 218 basis
points today from 226 basis points yesterday. It reached 298
basis points on Nov. 30, the highest since the start of the
euro, after European finance chiefs agreed to bail out Ireland
and open the door to possible debt restructurings in future
crises.  The tobacco-tax increase will also help the finances of
regional governments, which are suffering from a slump in the
real-estate taxes that funded them during Spain’s housing boom.
The regional administrations receive 58 percent of the tobacco
levy’s proceeds, with the rest going to the central government.  Regional Deficits  With a combined 104.8 billion euros of outstanding debt and
control over health and education spending, the regions are
trying to rein in their deficits as part of the national plan to
cut the overall public shortfall to 6 percent of gross domestic
product next year from 11 percent in 2009.  The so-called specific tax rate rises to 12.70 euros per
1,000 cigarettes from 10.20 euros, which is added to a tax of 57
percent of the sale price. The minimum tax resulting from those
two levies will now be 116.90 euros per 1,000 cigarettes,
compared with a previous 91.30 euros, the Finance Ministry said
in an e-mailed statement.  Salgado also said the airport operator, Aena Aeropuertos,
will remain a public company, with private investors able to buy
only minority stakes. Under the new law, Spain’s 47 individual
airports can be managed either as units of Aena Aeropuertos or
via private-sector concessions.  Subsidy Axed  The  unemployment  subsidy set to be scrapped in February was
introduced in August 2009, and more than 200,000 people
benefited from it in September this year, according to data from
the Labor Ministry. The 426 euro-per-month payment is for
unemployed workers who have come to the end of their
contributions-based benefits, which last a maximum of two years.  There are 1.29 million homes in Spain in which no one is
earning, according to the National Statistics Institute, as the
economy struggles to recover from an almost two-year recession
that pushed the jobless rate to more than 20 percent.  Spending cuts and the highest  jobless rate  in Europe have
dented support for the government. The Socialist Party was
defeated in regional elections in Catalonia on Nov. 28, and
nationwide the opposition People’s Party has a 7.5 percentage-
point lead over the Socialists, according to a poll published by
Cadena Ser on Nov. 2.  The government is aiming for tax cuts for small and mid-
sized companies to help spur job creation and growth after the
economy stalled in the third quarter. Gross domestic product
will contract 0.3 percent this year and expand 1.3 percent in
2011, according to the government’s forecasts. The Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development sees a 0.2 percent
contraction this year and 0.9 percent growth in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  