-- Spidey Actress Hit By Rope, Suffers Concussion, Tweets Greeting
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2010-12-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/spidey-actress-hit-by-rope-suffers-concussion-tweets-greeting.html
A lead actress in “ Spider-Man: Turn
Off the Dark ” suffered a concussion last Sunday, when she was
hit by a rope at the first preview, a person familiar with the
production said.  It was the third injury since Broadway’s most expensive
musical began rehearsals.  The actress, Natalie Mendoza, plays Arachne, a spidery
seductress invented by director and co-writer  Julie Taymor  for
the $65-million show.  Arachne is the arch-villainess, around whom the story
slowly weaves. Her show-stopping songs come while she rides the
air in her elaborate 8-legged aerial costume. She releases a
cohort of female spiders, who go on a crime-spree and knock over
a shoe store. They do a chorus girl routine, kicking all eight
legs, now daintily clad in stilettos.  Mendoza was temporarily replaced by an understudy, America
Olivo and is expected to return next week, the person said.  A doctor early in the week recommended Mendoza take time
off but she preferred to perform, the person said. After the
second preview on Wednesday, she said she didn’t feel well.  On Twitter, Mendoza posted the word “concussion ...” on
Tuesday morning, with no more information. Yesterday, she wrote
she was “sending huge love to the cast of Spidey especially my
amazing understudy America who will rock the house tonight!”  Mendoza describes herself on Twitter as an “actor, singer,
writer and meditator.”  During a presentation for sales agents in October, one
performer broke both wrists. In a rehearsal, another performer
broke a toe.  A New York State Labor Department spokesman, Joseph
Morrissey, said today in a statement that the production “made
changes to prevent this type of accident happening again,”
without being specific.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 