-- Stock Research Rules May Be Unaffected by U.S. Probe
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2010-12-03T14:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/stock-research-rules-may-be-unaffected-by-u-s-crackdown-on-inside-trading.html
Rules for analysts researching stocks
probably won’t be affected by the U.S. insider-trading
investigation that has resulted in the arrest of one “expert-
network” employee, securities lawyers and law professors said.  An Asia technology specialist at Primary Global Research
LLC, which matches investors with industry experts, was accused
of leaking inside information as part of what U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder called a “very serious” criminal probe of
illegal trading on Wall Street. Investigators have raided three
hedge funds and subpoenaed money managers including  Janus
Capital Group Inc.   The actions, which are an extension of federal cases filed
last year that have yielded 14 guilty pleas, are raising
questions about whether regulators are redefining what
constitutes legitimate stock research, especially the practice
of digging up small pieces of information to create a broader
understanding of a company, industry or trend. That’s probably
not the case, according to lawyers and academics.  “I don’t think the rules are changing,” said David S.
Stone, head of the corporate and securities practice at Neal,
Gerber & Eisenberg LLP, a Chicago law firm. The Securities and
Exchange Commission is focusing “on a different group that has
previously not been in the limelight.”  While investigators haven’t detailed what they’re
examining, their work has had an immediate impact on Wall Street
research practices, said  Michael W. Mayhew , founder of Integrity
Research Associates LLC, a New York firm that tracks trends in
investment research.  Business Stalls  Expert networks have grown into an industry with $450
million to $500 million in revenue in the past year, Mayhew
estimates. The crackdown has caused much of their business to
disappear, Mayhew said.  “Use of their services has been suspended or stopped,
because their clients are concerned,” he said.  The growth of expert networks -- from eight firms a decade
ago to 40 today -- is part of a drive by hedge funds and other
investors to be more aggressive about gathering information.
It’s not the idea of expert networks that may be illegal, but
how they are used, and particularly which experts investors
consult.  “Analysts have become very sophisticated,” said  Perrie Weiner , international co-chairman of securities litigation at
law firm DLA Piper LLP in Los Angeles. “The question is: When
you have expert analysts digging deeper than average analysts
would dig, at what point have they dug too far?”  Chu, Kinnucan  Don Ching Trang Chu, 56, a wireless broadband expert and
employee of Primary Global, was arrested on Nov. 24 on charges
he provided insider information to a hedge-fund manager who was
cooperating with the government. Chu, who had worked at the
Mountain View, California-based firm for seven years, was
dismissed, said  Dan Charnas , a spokesman. Chu’s attorney  James DeVita  has declined to comment.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation questioned  John Kinnucan , who runs Broadband Research LLC in Portland, Oregon,
and gets most of his information by talking with people who do
business with companies. Kinnucan, 53, said the FBI asked him to
secretly tape a conversation with a fund-manager client they
were targeting. He refused and has spoken out against the
government’s tactics.  “The Justice Department evidently would like to
retroactively criminalize research activities which have been
complicitly condoned by the SEC for years,” he said in an
interview. “If I don’t raise my voice, nobody will because
everyone has gone underground.”  ‘Violation of Duty’  Asked to comment on whether the definition of insider
trading is evolving,  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an
e-mail: “Illegal insider trading is the act of trading, or
causing someone to trade, on the basis of material nonpublic
information in violation of a duty.”  Securities experts said that, in recent cases, the key
phrase is “in violation of a duty.” The rumor mills of Wall
Street or Silicon Valley -- or even company holiday parties --
have always been places to glean information on public
companies. Such information is illegal to trade on when it comes
from someone who had a duty to keep it secret.  The issue isn’t when research analysts talk to a company’s
competitors or industry experts, or when they survey hundreds of
customers, said  Christopher Robertson , a partner at the law firm
Seyfarth Shaw in Boston. Legal trouble comes when they get
information from people -- current or former employees,
attorneys or consultants -- who are obliged to remain quiet.  Richard Lee  Research networks routinely have a policy against
connecting investors with employees of public companies if
clients are looking to invest in them, said Mayhew of Integrity
Research. He said that networks can’t be sure their clients are
being honest about their intentions.  Primary Global’s Chu facilitated the passing of insider
tips about Atheros Communications Inc., Broadcom Corp. and
Sierra Wireless Inc. to Spherix Capital LLC, a hedge fund run by
 Richard Choo-Beng Lee , according to the government’s complaint.
Lee had been cooperating with another investigation, started in
2009, looking at the Galleon Group LLC, a hedge fund based in
New York.  Chu had found ways to “obtain inside information,” such
as sales and contract figures, from public companies before they
released quarterly results, according to the complaint. The
information probably came from people who had a duty to keep it
private.  Many other research methods remain legitimate, said  Harold Gordon , a partner at the law firm Jones Day in New York.  Confusion  “There is still room for good, fundamental research,”
Gordon said, especially when analysts “piece together a
portrait of how a company is doing” based on various sources of
information like surveying competitors, monitoring parts orders
or freight shipments. “Going out and finding information about
a company without going through insiders has always been
permitted,” said Stone of Neal Gerber.  One area of confusion among legal experts and analysts is
whether store managers or other low-level employees can be legal
sources for research data. Insider information is only illegal
if it’s material, meaning it would be significant enough to move
a stock price.  “If you’re really low in the food chain, the amount of
information you have is arguably not material,” said Eric W.
Orts, a management professor who specializes in legal studies
and business ethics at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton
School in Philadelphia.  Store Managers  Prosecutors can argue that, while each manager may not
possess material information, a survey of hundreds of managers
yields important information that an investor may act on, Stone
said.  “You get into gray areas when you start surveying store
managers,” he said. Another question is whether store managers
or other low-level employees are prohibited by company policy
from responding to such surveys and would be speaking “in
violation of a duty.”  The answer can vary by company, and many employees probably
don’t know their own company’s confidentiality policies, Orts
said. “There needs to be better information given to employees
about what their responsibility is.”  With so much firepower aimed at getting better information
to investors, there may be an inevitable temptation for some to
push research to its legal limits.  “If your whole job is to get an edge on information,”
Orts said, “there are a lot of people tempted to step over that
line.”  To contact the report on this story:
 Ben Steverman  in New York at 
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Martin Keohan at 
 mkeohan@bloomberg.net  