-- Sugar May Gain This Week as Heavy Rains Delay India Crop, Survey Shows
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2010-12-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/sugar-may-gain-next-week-as-heavy-rains-delay-india-crop-survey-shows.html
Sugar futures may rise as a La Nina
weather pattern brings excessive rain to India, delaying the
cane harvest, according to a survey.  Nine of 11 traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by
Bloomberg News said raw sugar traded in New York will advance
next week. Two predicted that prices will fall. Raw sugar rose
0.3 percent to 28.45 cents a pound yesterday on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York, gaining for the seventh time in eight sessions.  “You’re still looking at weather issues with La Nina
slowing the Indian harvest, ” which usually runs until April or
May,  Michael McDougall , a senior vice president at Newedge USA
in New York, said in a telephone interview. La Nina is a global
weather pattern caused by cooling equatorial waters in the
Pacific Ocean.  Prices have more than doubled since reaching a 13-month low
in May, partly on concern that supply from Brazil and India, the
two biggest growers, won’t meet demand.  Output in Maharashtra, India’s largest producer of refined
sugar, has fallen 10 percent in the season that began Oct. 1
after heavy rainfall in the main growing areas slowed harvests,
 Prakash Naiknavare , the managing director of the Maharashtra
State Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation Ltd., said this
week.  “The other big question is India’s export policy,”
McDougall said. India may allow 1.5 million to 2 million metric
tons of exports this year,  Vivek Saraogi , the president of the
Indian Sugar Mills Association, said on Nov. 30. The nation will
decide on easing export curbs in the third week of December,
according to Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar .  Nine of 11 survey respondents said white sugar traded on
London’s Liffe exchange will gain and two forecast a decline.
Yesterday, refined sugar rose as much as 1.6 percent to $737.10
a ton on NYSE Liffe, the highest level since Nov. 11.  White sugar’s premium over raw sweetener will most likely
widen, according to seven of 11 people surveyed. One estimated
it will narrow and three predicted little change.  In the attached chart, red bars are derived by subtracting
bearish forecasts from bullish estimates for raw sugar, with
readings above zero signaling that most respondents expect
higher prices. The green line shows raw-sugar prices, and the
blue line shows white sugar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Morris  in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  