-- U.S. Military Chiefs Urge Caution on Congress Ending `Don't Ask' Policy
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2010-12-03T16:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/u-s-military-chiefs-urge-caution-on-ending-don-t-ask-policy.html
U.S. military chiefs urged caution
today on repealing the prohibition on openly gay service
members, while agreeing that the armed forces can manage the
change if ordered to do so.  “My recommendation is that we should not implement repeal
at this time,” General James Amos, the Marine Corps commandant,
told a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing in Washington
today. He advocated waiting until the Marines aren’t focused
primarily on combat in Afghanistan or preparing for it, as now
is the case for more than 50 percent of his forces.  Army General  George Casey  and Air Force General  Norton Schwartz  said repealing the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy
poses a “moderate” risk to U.S. military effectiveness, a day
after Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  presented the committee
with a Pentagon study and described the risk as low.  Considering the war in Afghanistan, where the U.S. plans to
begin withdrawing troops in July, Schwartz said the
implementation of any congressional repeal of the policy should
be delayed until 2012 to allow time for education and training.
Casey also backed a delay, while saying the law “should be
repealed eventually.”  “It is difficult for me, as a member of the Joint Chiefs,
to recommend placing any additional discretionary demands on our
leadership cadres in Afghanistan at this particularly
challenging time,” Schwartz said.  Major Cultural Change  While Casey said ending the policy would represent a
“major cultural and policy change in the middle of the war,”
he said that “it is my judgment we could implement repeal with
moderate risk to our military effectiveness and long-term health
of the force.”  The members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff testified in the
second day of hearings on this week’s release of a Pentagon
study showing that most service members said serving with openly
gay soldiers wouldn’t hurt the military.  President  Barack Obama  and Democratic lawmakers are looking
for support from at least two Republicans to reach the 60 votes
needed to overcome a filibuster threat and bring the measure to
the Senate floor before their majority shrinks in January as a
result of last month’s elections.  The House of Representatives approved the repeal of the
“don’t ask, don’t tell” law earlier this year. Failure to
complete repeal this year would force supporters to start over
with new legislation next year, when Republicans will control
the House.  Crush of Business  The legislation risks getting caught in the crush of
business in the lame-duck session, which includes debates over
tax cuts, unemployment benefits and a nuclear-arms treaty with
Russia.  Most Armed Services committee Republicans, including
Arizona Senator  John McCain , said yesterday they weren’t swayed
by the arguments in favor of repeal put forward by Gates and the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral  Michael Mullen ,
in the first day of hearings.  “I think it’s pretty obvious that there is significantly
divided opinion,” McCain said today. “It is very obvious there
is a lot more scrutiny and work needed before passing this
legislation.”  McCain said he wanted more hearings to get testimony from
senior enlisted personnel and regional commanders.  Opponents of repeal point to results in the Pentagon survey
showing that members of combat units and Marines were more
likely than other service members to say that letting gays serve
openly would hurt military effectiveness.  Little Negative Impact  Gates and Mullen testified that, overall, the study
indicates that the risk of change is low and that “a solid
majority” of service members said repeal wouldn’t have a
negative impact.  Marine Corps General  James Cartwright , the vice chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, cited survey results today that
showed 92 percent of respondents in the survey who had worked
with a service member they knew to be gay or lesbian saw no
negative effect or described their experience as good.  That demonstrates the gap between perceptions of what might
happen if the policy is repealed and the actual experience of
soldiers in the field, Cartwright told the committee.  The service chiefs today rejected suggestions by McCain and
other Republicans on the panel that the Pentagon study should
have asked military personnel directly whether they favor repeal
of the don’t ask, don’t tell policy.  ‘Not a Democracy’  The Army is “not a democracy,” Casey said. Amos said he
was confident he understands the views of Marines based on the
study and his own discussions.  “We did not need a referendum-type question,” Amos said.  Maine Republican Senator  Susan Collins , who voted for the
repeal measure in committee earlier this year, yesterday cited a
soldier’s comments in the study that “no one cared” that a
member of his unit was gay. “He’s big, he’s mean and he kills
lots of bad guys,” Collins quoted the soldier as saying.  In a written statement, Collins said she would vote to
bring the measure to the Senate floor if the Democratic
leadership “allows sufficient debate and amendments.”  Massachusetts Republican  Scott Brown , also a committee
member, plans to issue a statement on his decision today, after
the second day of hearings, spokeswoman Gail Gitcho said.  “I’ve been to many funerals, unfortunately, in my home
state for those soldiers, and one thing I never asked was ‘Are
they gay or straight?’” Brown said during the hearing
yesterday.  Court Ruling  The service chiefs testifying today, like Gates and Mullen
yesterday, said they worry more that a potential court order
would force an immediate shift without time to prepare.  A federal trial judge in September ruled the ban
unconstitutional. The Supreme Court last month allowed the law
to remain in effect during appeals.  “Precipitous repeal is not, it is not, a place where your
armed forces want to be,” Schwartz said.  A survey that underpinned the study found that while most
military personnel said repealing the ban would have either a
positive effect, little effect or no impact at all, 40 percent
to 60 percent of respondents from the Marine Corps and largely
all-male combat units said it would have negative repercussions.  “Repeal of the law will not fundamentally change who we
are or what we do,” said Admiral  Gary Roughead , the chief of
naval operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Flavia Krause-Jackson  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
 Viola Gienger  in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 