-- U.S. Card Losses Wane as Write-Offs Decouple From Jobless Rate
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m
-- 2010-12-03T18:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/u-s-card-losses-wane-as-write-offs-decouple-from-jobless-rate.html
U.S. credit-card issuers say the days
when write-offs and the jobless rate moved in lockstep are over.  After record defaults for the industry in 2009, issuers
ranging from  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  to  Capital One Financial Corp. 
are writing off fewer card loans even as unemployment remains
near 10 percent. Write-offs as measured by Moody’s Investors
Service fell to 8.79 percent in October, the lowest since
January 2009, while JPMorgan, the nation’s No. 1 issuer,
reported its biggest quarterly profit from cards in three years.  Card losses have decoupled from the jobless rate because
people who are out of work for an extended period and default on
loans can’t do any more damage, bankers say. Issuers typically
write off soured card loans after 180 days, and those customers
usually don’t get access to new credit.  “You can only charge off once,” said Capital One Chief
Executive Officer  Richard D. Fairbank  during a Nov. 17 investor
presentation by the McLean, Virginia-based company. “Someone
who’s been unemployed for three years, I can pretty much
guarantee that long ago they said goodbye to their Capital One
credit card.”  Credit performance has closely tracked unemployment for 20
years, Fairbank said, and the pattern persisted through last
year. Card write-offs, as measured by Moody’s, eclipsed a record
10 percent in May 2009. That same month the jobless rate
surpassed 9 percent for the first time since 1983.  Payrolls Rise  Write-offs now have dropped below the  unemployment rate ,
which climbed to 9.8 percent in November, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. Payrolls increased for a
fifth straight month, by 39,000 jobs, according to the report.  JPMorgan said its card unit earned $735 million in the
third quarter, compared with a $700 million loss a year earlier
at the New York-based lender.  American Express Co. , the biggest
issuer by purchases, reported U.S. card income was $595 million,
the most since the first quarter of 2007, and said in October
that fourth-quarter write-offs could be lower than in the third.  “What really matters is a lot of people losing their
jobs,” said  Roger Hochschild , chief operating officer at
 Discover Financial Services , during a Nov. 15 interview in New
York. “If someone stays unemployed, if they’ve already charged-
off, they can’t hurt us anymore.”  Write-offs at Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover fell to
6.83 percent in October, the second-lowest among the six biggest
card issuers after New York-based  AmEx ’s 4.7 percent.  More Declines  The “Big Six,” including New York-based  Citigroup Inc.  and
 Bank of America Corp. , based in Charlotte, North Carolina,
reported that overdue loans, a signal of future write-offs, fell
in October to the lowest in at least 22 months.  The drop provides “a clear indication that charge-offs
have plenty of momentum for further declines at least into the
spring of 2011,” said  Jeffrey Hibbs , a Moody’s analyst, in a
report last week.  That trend, combined with more consumer spending and a
continued shift from cash and checks to plastic, may mean higher
profit ahead for card issuers after closing accounts, slashing
credit lines and reducing promotional rates on balance transfers
during the financial crisis.  Visa Inc. , the world’s biggest electronic payments network,
said this week that U.S. credit-card spending climbed 9 percent
in the first four weeks of November. Quarterly U.S. credit
spending at San Francisco-based Visa hasn’t grown at that pace
since  2007 . No. 2 MasterCard Inc., based in Purchase, New York,
said spending by cardholders traveling abroad surged an
annualized 19 percent from Oct. 1 through Nov. 28.  Retail Sales  Retail sales for U.S.-based merchants rose the most in
eight months in November, led by  Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  and
 J.C. Penney Co. , as discounts during the Thanksgiving
weekend lured consumers.  “We have continued to see people who have a pent-up
demand,” said Keith Jelinek, a director in the retail practice
at consultant AlixPartners LLP, based in Southfield, Michigan.
“People are more optimistic because they feel things can’t get
worse and believe there is a light at the end of the tunnel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Eichenbaum  in New York at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  