-- U.S., South Korea Said Reach Deal in Trade Talks
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-03T19:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/u-s-south-korea-report-progress-in-free-trade-talks-update1-.html
The U.S. and South Korea reached
agreement to change automobile provisions in a pending trade
deal, clearing the way for legislatures in both nations to
approve the delayed accord, said a person briefed on the talks.  South Korea agreed to let the U.S. phase out its 2.5
percent tariff on automobiles over five years instead of as much
as three years, a demand of  Ford Motor Co ., the person said,
declining to be identified before an announcement. Earlier
today, trade ministers for both countries reported “significant
progress” at the end of four days of talks in Columbia,
Maryland.  “We are going to take it back to our team to review,”
U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said in an interview. Kirk
declined to say if an overall agreement was reached. Korean
Trade Minister  Kim Jong Hoon  said the two sides achieved a
“significant result” and that he would provide details after
returning to Seoul.  President  Barack Obama  demanded changes to provisions on
trade in automobiles and beef for the agreement, which was
completed by his predecessor in 2007. Obama and his counterpart,
 Lee Myung Bak , failed to reach a deal when they met in Seoul
last month.  With almost $68 billion in trade between the nations, a
deal would be the U.S.’s largest since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994 and would help President  Barack Obama 
meet his goal of doubling American exports in five years. The
accord, signed by negotiators for President  George W. Bush , has
languished as lawmakers complained about Korean barriers to
exports of U.S. autos and beef. Ford and the United Auto Workers
opposed the agreement and sought changes.  Amid high unemployment and opposition from fellow Democrats
and organized labor, Obama hasn’t submitted to Congress the
trade pacts approved by Bush with South Korea, Colombia and
Panama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  