-- U.S., South Korea Agree on Revisions in Trade Accord
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2010-12-04T19:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/u-s-south-korea-agree-on-revisions-in-free-trade-agreement.html
The U.S. and South Korea agreed to
change automobile provisions in a pending free-trade deal,
gaining the support of  Ford Motor Co.  and lawmakers in both
parties for the stalled accord.  Both nations will scale back initial tariff cuts for cars,
and South Korea said it would allow more imports of U.S.-made
vehicles that meet American standards and not Korean rules. The
U.S. will maintain a 25 percent tariff on truck imports for
eight years instead of beginning to phase it out immediately.  “This was the only way to reverse the historic, lopsided
pattern of one-way trade with South Korea,” Representative
 Sander Levin , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and
a critic of the earlier accord, said yesterday in a statement
supporting the agreement.  With almost $68 billion in trade between the nations, a
deal would be the U.S.’s largest since the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994, and would help President  Barack Obama 
meet his goal of doubling American exports in five years. It was
backed by companies including  Citigroup Inc. ,  Caterpillar Inc. ,
 General Electric Co.  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   The trade accord is a “win-win for both our countries,”
Obama told reporters in Washington today. The agreement will
level the playing field for automakers, boost U.S. exports by as
much as $11 billion, support job growth and enhance the U.S.
partnership with South Korea, the president said.  Step Forward  “The free trade deal with the U.S. will bring huge
economic benefit to both countries,” South Korea’s President
 Lee Myung Bak  said in a statement on the website of the
presidential office. Lee said the agreement will help the
alliance between the two countries move a step forward,
according to the statement.  Obama requested changes in the deal, which was negotiated
during the administration of President  George W. Bush , to meet
demands from lawmakers over what they called unfair Korean
barriers to U.S. exports of autos and beef.  The agreement “is an integral part of my administration’s
efforts to open foreign markets to U.S. goods and services,
create jobs for American workers, farmers and businesses, and
achieve our goal of doubling of U.S. exports over five years,”
Obama said yesterday in a statement. The agreement will support
at least 70,000 U.S. jobs, the president said.  Failure in Seoul  Obama and Lee failed to seal a deal during a summit in
Seoul last month.  “I didn’t agree to it then for a very simple reason: the
deal wasn’t good enough,” Obama told reporters at the White
House today. “As I said in Seoul I am not interested in signing
trade agreements for the sake of signing trade agreements. I am
interested in agreements that increase jobs and exports for the
American people.”  Trade negotiators from both nations spent this week huddled
at a hotel in Columbia, Maryland, to resolve differences. The
agreement needs approval by Congress before taking effect, and
polls show waning public approval for trade deals.  Levin, a Michigan Democrat, and Dearborn, Michigan-based
Ford lobbied to change provisions in the deal, which has
languished since being signed in 2007. Ford Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  praised the result.  Ford’s Praise  “These new provisions provide Ford greater confidence that
we will be able to better serve our Korean customers,” Mulally
said yesterday in a statement.  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who will
become chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee next year,
joined Levin in praising the changes.  “I look forward to working, on a bipartisan basis and with
the administration, to implement this agreement,” Camp said.  Under the revised terms, the U.S. will end its 2.5 percent
tariff on automobiles in five years, instead of immediately or
after three years, as was previously agreed. South Korea will
cut its 8 percent tariff on U.S. automobile imports to 4 percent
immediately, instead of eliminating it entirely, according to a
White House fact sheet.  Safety Standards  In addition, each U.S. automaker would be able to send
South Korea 25,000 cars a year that meet U.S. safety standards.
They would be exempt from separate South Korean standards. U.S.
automakers would also be given flexibility in meeting South
Korean emissions and environmental requirements.  “We basically welcome the agreement as it removes
uncertainty, helping companies set up business plans,” Huh Wan,
executive director at  Korea Automobile Manufacturers
Association , said by telephone today. It will also boost the
competitiveness of South Korean auto parts, Huh said.  In exchange the U.S. agreed to higher tariffs on its pork
products for a longer time period, a change that U.S. pork
producers said they would accept.  “To get a final agreement, we needed to give a little, we
needed to take one for the team,”  Sam Carney , president of the
National Pork Producers Council, said in a statement. “This is
still a good deal for us.”  The two sides didn’t announce changes on beef trade. Senate
Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who
had demanded that South Korea drop restrictions on U.S. beef
imports from older cattle, said he was unhappy with the
agreement.  Baucus on Beef  “I am deeply disappointed that today’s deal fails to
address Korea’s significant barriers to American beef exports,”
Baucus said in a statement yesterday. He said he would reserve
judgment on the full accord.  American beef producers lobbied to get the deal completed
quickly to gain an advantage over competitors in Australia by
securing cuts in a 40 percent South Korean tariff. Once the deal
is in place, U.S. pork and beef exports to South Korea could
increase by $2 billion a year, the American Meat Institute
estimates.  The agreement may help Obama repair a rift with the
business community, which fought his efforts on health care and
financial regulation.  “The administration has done its part,” U.S. Chamber of
Commerce President  Thomas Donohue  said in a statement. “Now
it’s time for the new Congress to make passage” of the
agreement a priority. Donohue said the Chamber will help round
up votes.  Trade Deal Critics  The changes Obama negotiated wouldn’t be enough to satisfy
many Democratic critics of trade deals,  Lori Wallach , the
director of the consumer group Public Citizen’s Global Trade
Watch in Washington, said in a statement.  The Chamber “must be gleeful that they are getting the
Obama administration to take ownership of another Bush Nafta-
style trade deal that would simultaneously favor their job
offshoring agenda and put Obama’s re-election in peril,”
Wallach said.  Two other agreements, with Panama and Colombia, were also
signed by Bush administration officials and are awaiting
approval in Congress.  “I had hoped for more from this White House, which
campaigned on a need to change the way we negotiate trade
agreements so that they truly benefit American workers and
businesses,” Representative  Michael Michaud , a Maine Democrat,
said in a statement. “I will work with allies on Capitol Hill
to do whatever I can to defeat it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Drajem  in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  