-- U.S. Deficit-Cutting Panel's $3.8 Trillion Plan Is on Brink of Rejection
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2010-12-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/u-s-deficit-cutting-panel-s-3-8-trillion-plan-on-brink-of-being-rejected.html
A presidential commission’s $3.8
trillion debt-cutting  plan  is set to be rejected after five
members from both political parties said they would oppose its
mix of tax increases and cuts in programs such as Social
Security and Medicare.  The commission appointed by President  Barack Obama ,
scheduled to vote today, needs approval from 14 of 18 members to
forward the  proposal  to Congress for consideration.  The recommendations “paint a big red target on rural
America,” Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman
of the Finance Committee, said in a statement yesterday. While
reducing the deficit is “imperative,” he said, plans to
increase the gas tax “would hurt folks in rural states like
Montana where we often have to travel long distances.”  Also opposing the plan are Democratic Representative  Jan Schakowsky  of Illinois and Republican Representatives  Paul Ryan 
of Wisconsin and  Dave Camp  of Michigan, the incoming House Ways
and Means Committee chairman.  Andy Stern , former president of
the Service Employees International Union, also will vote no,
said his spokeswoman, Christine Bonanno.  The proposal by panel co-chairmen  Erskine Bowles  and  Alan Simpson  would increase taxes $1 trillion by 2020 by scaling back
or eliminating hundreds of tax deductions, exclusions and
credits, such as those letting homeowners write off interest on
their mortgage payments.  It would cut Social Security benefits, raise the gas tax by
15 cents, reduce discretionary spending by $1.6 trillion and cut
Medicare by more than $400 billion. The plan would reduce the
annual deficit -- $1.3 trillion this year -- to about $400
billion from 2015, and would start reducing the national debt.  ‘Reduce Our Federal Debt’  Illinois Senator  Dick Durbin , the chamber’s second-ranking
Democrat, said he would vote for the plan. In a Chicago Tribune
 op-ed article , he said it “is certainly not the plan I would
have written. But it will help put Americans back to work and it
will reduce our federal debt dramatically.”  Similarly, Republican Senators  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma and
 Mike Crapo  of Idaho said that while they didn’t like many
elements, they would support the proposal because the nation’s
fiscal challenges must be addressed. That brought the number of
commission members backing the plan to 10.  “We have to start somewhere -- and it can’t be all my
way,” Coburn told reporters.  Crapo said, “If we take no action, we could see a collapse
in the value of the dollar, hyperinflation or consequences”
that would force Congress to “take actions that are far more
serious and far more painful than anything in this proposal.”  Gregg, Conrad  Others supporting the proposal are Senator  Judd Gregg , a
New Hampshire Republican; Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota
Democrat;  David Cote , chairman of Honeywell International Inc.;
 Ann Fudge , former chief executive officer of Young & Rubicam
Inc.; former Congressional Budget Office Director  Alice Rivlin ;
and co-chairmen Bowles, a former chief of staff to President
 Bill Clinton , and Simpson, a former Republican senator from
Wyoming.  Conrad said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday
that he didn’t think there were enough votes to approve the
plan. “I frankly never thought we’d get 14,” he said.  Baucus said that he opposed cuts to farm subsidies and that
reductions in Social Security and Medicare would
disproportionately hurt rural states because they have larger
numbers of older residents.  Representative  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, who said
yesterday he was leaning against the proposal, said it “does
not address health care in a meaningful way.”  Camp, in a statement, said the proposal “fails to address
the increased health-care spending that would result from the
new health-care law.” He also said he opposes plans to raise
taxes.  “You cannot fix this problem without taking on health
care,” Ryan told reporters. The plan “doesn’t even take a step
in the right direction. It takes many steps in the wrong
direction from my perspective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
 Heidi Przybyla  in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 