-- Stocks in U.S. Climb as Commodity Producers Advance Amid Declining Dollar
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2010-12-03T21:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-before-monthly-payrolls-data.html
U.S. stocks rose, extending the
biggest weekly gain in a month, as a rally in energy and metals
producers after the dollar fell offset concern that slower-than-
estimated growth in payrolls will hamper the economy.  Newmont Mining Corp.  and Schlumberger Ltd. added at least
2.5 percent as the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19
commodities completed the largest weekly gain since 2009.  DuPont
Co.  advanced 1.3 percent after Citigroup Inc. recommended buying
the stock.  Big Lots Inc.  fell 5.1 percent after the seller of
overstocked items cut its 2010 forecast.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. 
slumped 2.7 percent after its stock rating was cut.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  advanced 0.3 percent to
1,224.71 at 4 p.m. in New York, reversing a 0.4 percent decline
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told CBS he
doesn’t rule out expanding the central bank’s $600 billion
program of spurring the world’s main economy with Treasury
purchases. The Dow Jones Industrial Average increased 19.68
points, or 0.2 percent, to 11,382.09.  “The market is in a very manic-depressive phase,” said
 Wasif Latif , vice president of equity investments at USAA
Investment Management Co., which oversees $45 billion in San
Antonio. “While the jobs data was disappointing, all of the
other figures came in pretty decently. That still tells me that
we’re in a slow, but steady economic recovery. That’s still a
good backdrop for investing in the equity market.”  Weekly Rally  The S&P 500 advanced 3 percent this week after a record
increase in sales of existing homes, retail sales that topped
projections and reports showed an expansion in Chinese and
European manufacturing. The benchmark U.S. equity index has
rallied 20 percent from its 2010 low in July as corporate
profits improved and the Fed expanded its asset-purchase program
to suppress interest rates and stoke the economic recovery.  Gauges of  raw-materials  and energy stocks in the S&P 500
were the best performing groups within 10 industries. Crude oil
and metals prices rose as the U.S. dollar declined, boosting the
appeal of commodities as an alternative investment.  The Dollar Index , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners including the euro and yen, fell below 80 for
the first time in a week. The gauge slid 1.5 percent to 79.13 at
4:42 p.m. New York time.  Newmont Mining, the largest U.S. gold producer, gained 3.1
percent to $62.36. Schlumberger, the biggest oilfield services
provider, added 2.5 percent to $82.74.  Dupont  DuPont  advanced 1.3 percent to $49.24 for the second-
biggest gain in the Dow average. The third-largest U.S. chemical
maker was raised to “buy” from “hold” at Citigroup, which
cited strength in its electronics products.  Some casino companies advanced as three U.S. House
Republicans said the Senate may try to pass legislation that
would legalize and tax some Internet gambling before Congress
adjourns this year. Boyd Gaming Corp. rose 6.2 percent to $9.77.
Scientific Games Corp. gained 9 percent to $8.64.  International
Game Technology  climbed 5 percent to $16.33 for the biggest
advance in the S&P 500.  “The fact that stocks rallied despite a bad jobs report is
a good indication,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more
than $4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co. in New York.
“People are starting to get focused on the other economic data
points that show that the economy is going to surprise
positively. It’s a reason to buy into the rally. It’s a bad
place for anyone who’s betting against stocks.”  ISM, Jobs  Stocks pared losses earlier today after a gauge of service
industries expanded at the fastest pace in six months. The
Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing  index , which
covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 55 last month
from 54.3 in October. A reading higher than 50 signals growth.  The Dow fell as much as 0.4 percent today after the Labor
Department said U.S. payrolls increased by 39,000 last month,
trailing the median economist projection in a Bloomberg News
survey for an increase of 150,000 jobs. The  jobless rate  rose to
9.8 percent from 9.6 percent.  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s largest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said the Fed is unlikely to
raise interest rates for several years with employment growing
less than forecast. He spoke in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “It’s a glacial recovery for the jobs market,” said  Chad Morganlander , a Florham Park, New Jersey-based money manager at
Stifel Nicolaus, which has $90 billion in client assets.
“Today’s figures were surprising especially in light of the
better figures we’ve had this week. That only tells me that one
will still have to keep a very careful eye at this stage.”  Big Lots, Nasdaq, EBay  Big Lots  lost 5.1 percent, the most since Nov. 4, to
$29.50. The seller of overstocked items cut its earnings
forecast for 2010 to no more than $2.81 a share. The company
previously projected at least $2.82 a share.  Nasdaq  sank 2.7 percent to $22.63. The owner of the second-
largest U.S. stock exchange was cut to “hold” from “buy” at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which said the stock is expensive
relative to the S&P 500. The stock rose 22 percent through
yesterday since the company reported quarterly results on July
27, compared with a 9.6 percent gain for the U.S. equity
benchmark gauge.  EBay Inc.  fell 1 percent to $29.61. The owner of the
second-most visited U.S. e-commerce site was cut to “hold”
from “buy” at Citigroup, which cited valuation. The shares
have risen 43 percent since the end of July through yesterday,
compared with an 11 percent gain for the S&P 500.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rita Nazareth  in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
 Tara Lachapelle  in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 