-- U.S. Employers Add Fewer Jobs Than Forecast, Bolstering Fed Stimulus Plan
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2010-12-03T21:46:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/u-s-added-39-000-jobs-in-november-unemployment-rose-to-9-8-.html
Employers added fewer jobs than
forecast in November and the  unemployment rate  rose to 9.8
percent, pointing to economic weakness that’s likely to keep the
Federal Reserve pumping money into the financial system.  Payrolls increased 39,000, less than the most pessimistic
projection of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, after a
revised 172,000 increase the prior month, Labor Department
figures showed today in Washington. The jobless rate rose to a
seven-month high, while hours worked and earnings stagnated.  Two-year Treasury securities climbed and the dollar
weakened as the data contradicted recent reports showing
 manufacturing  growth and stronger holiday sales. The unexpected
gain in unemployment is likely to intensify political debate
over extending Bush-era tax cuts, as well as the Fed’s $600
billion program of asset purchases intended to spur growth.  “We haven’t gotten the pace of job growth to an acceptable
level,”  Bruce Kasman , chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in New York, said in an interview. “This is the kind of report
that validates the Fed doing what they are doing.”  The 2-year Treasury note rose, pushing the yield down to
0.47 percent at 4:33 p.m. in New York from 0.54 percent late
yesterday. Stocks ended higher, extending the biggest weekly
gain in a month, propelled by a rally in shares of energy and
metal producers as commodity prices rose. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index  advanced 0.3 percent to 1,224.71 at the 4 p.m. close
in New York.  Services Expand  Another report showed service industries expanded in
November at the fastest pace in six months.  Payrolls were forecast to climb by 150,000, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 87 economists. The
October figure was revised up from an initially reported gain of
151,000. The jobless rate was forecast to hold at 9.6 percent.  The number of unemployed Americans rose to 15.1 million
last month, including a record 6.4 million women.  Among companies cutting jobs is Boston-based State Street
Corp., the third-largest custody bank, which on Nov. 30 said it
will eliminate 1,400 positions, or about 5 percent of its
workforce, to reduce costs as  interest rates  near zero erode
profit.  “Amid the current challenging economic conditions, we
will continue to improve our operating environment in the short-
term while ensuring that we have the right structure in place
for long-term growth,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph “Jay”
Hooley said in a statement.  Finance Employment  Financial firms cut 9,000 jobs last month, the most in four
months, today’s report showed. Construction companies subtracted
5,000 workers and payrolls at retailers fell 28,100.  Private payrolls that exclude government agencies also
gained less than forecast, rising by 50,000 in November.
Economists projected a 160,000 gain, the survey showed.  The U.S. Senate is scheduled to vote tomorrow on Democratic
proposals to extend a portion of the Bush-era tax cuts before
they expire at the end of the month, Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  said.  “It’s critically important that we extend tax cuts to the
middle class, the Bush tax cuts and the Obama tax cuts, and that
we not pull the rug out from under the unemployed that are
searching for work, and we extend the unemployment benefits,”
Austan Goolsbee, chairman of President Barack Obama’s Council of
Economic Advisers, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television.  Tax-Cut Debate  Republicans have vowed to block any measure that doesn’t
extend all of the Bush-era tax policies, saying that expiration
of the lower rates for upper-income taxpayers would hurt job
creation.  “Raising taxes during times of economic uncertainty and
instability is the wrong thing to do,” Senator  Orrin Hatch , a
Republican from Utah, said in a statement.  In an effort to reach out to some of the nation’s largest
employers, Obama met with  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Duke  at the White House on Nov. 29. The meeting is
one of a series of sessions aimed at soliciting the views of
companies, with the goal of spurring the recovery and adding
jobs.  Employment at service-providers increased 54,000, today’s
Labor Department report showed. Separately, the Institute for
Supply Management said today its  non-manufacturing index , which
covers about 90 percent of the economy, rose to 55 last month
from 54.3 in October. A reading higher than 50 signals growth.  Factory Jobs  Manufacturing payrolls  dropped by 13,000 in November, the
most in three months, today’s Labor Department report showed.
Economists had projected an increase of 5,000. State and local
governments reduced employment by 13,000.  New York City, facing a $3.3 billion deficit in next year’s
budget, will cut its workforce by more than 10,000 over the next
year-and-a-half, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s budget office said
Nov. 18. More than 6,200 workers will be fired, and the
remainder of the cuts will be made through attrition, his office
said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Today’s Labor Department report showed the number of
temporary workers rose 39,500, indicating companies are holding
off hiring full-time employees.  More ‘Flexibility’  “Our clients still are looking for flexibility because
there’s enough uncertainty in the pace of the recovery,”  Tig Gilliam , chief executive officer of Adecco North America, said
in an interview. The Melville, New York, firm is a division of
Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based Adecco SA, the world’s largest
supplier of temporary workers.  Average hourly earnings were $22.75 in November compared
with $22.74 in the prior month, today’s report showed. The
average work week for all workers held at 34.3 hours.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- held at 17 percent.  “The labor market is capping off a very poor recovery this
year,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “I don’t think we’ll
slide back into job losses, but being stuck in neutral isn’t
good. While consumer spending has normalized, employers are
uncertain about demand going into 2011.”  The report also showed the number of people unemployed for
27 weeks or more increased as a percentage of all jobless, to
41.9 percent, the highest since August.  ‘Really Ugly’  “It is really ugly right now,” said Anthony Johnson, 27,
of Atlanta, who has been looking for a job since leaving the
Marine Corps, where he was a warehouse clerk, 14 months ago.
“It is so competitive. For every few jobs that come out, so
many people are fighting for that one position.”  Johnson, who has a business degree, says he has put in more
than 100 applications this year and had one interview for a job
that was later filled internally. Some employers say he’s
overqualified, he said.  One reason why hiring isn’t gaining speed is the economy’s
inability to match the recovery’s earlier pace of growth. Gross
domestic product expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, half the pace in the last three months of 2009.  Fed policy makers last month began buying Treasury
securities as part of a plan to pump as much as $600 billion
into the financial system through June with purchases of
Treasuries.  Bernanke’s View  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has been among those saying the
recovery has been too slow, keeping unemployment too high and
leading to a deceleration in inflation that raises the risk of
deflation, or sustained and damaging price decreases.  “Fed officials will certainly agree to continue their
asset purchases at the upcoming Dec. 14 meeting,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in New York. “In fact, one wonders if they increase
the pace of purchases.”  John Boehner , the presumptive House speaker, and three
other Republican leaders have criticized the Fed’s asset-
purchase plan, announced a day after the Nov. 2 elections,
saying it risked weakening the dollar and fueling asset bubbles.  Recent economic data had pointed to an accelerating
recovery. Household purchases climbed in October for a fourth
straight month and incomes rose more than forecast, according to
a Commerce Department report last week. Applications for jobless
benefits fell in November to the lowest in more than two years,
the Labor Department said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Timothy R. Homan  in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  