-- U.S. Regulators Propose Requiring Backup Cameras in All New Cars by 2014
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-12-03T16:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/u-s-proposes-cameras-in-all-new-cars-by-2014-to-stem-back-over-accidents.html
U.S. auto-safety regulators proposed
requiring backup cameras on all new vehicles by 2014 to prevent
drivers from backing over pedestrians, a  rule  that may cost as
much as $2.7 billion.  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which
 published  the proposed rule today, said an average of 292 people
die each year from back-over accidents, which primarily kill
children and the elderly. To equip a new-vehicle fleet of 16.6
million produced in a year would cost from $1.9 billion to $2.7
billion, the agency said in the proposal, calling the cost
“substantial” and saying it might reduce back-over deaths and
injuries by almost half.  “There is no more tragic accident than for a parent or
caregiver to back out of a garage or driveway and kill or injure
an undetected child playing behind the vehicle,” Transportation
Secretary  Ray LaHood  said in a statement. “The changes we are
proposing today will help drivers see into those blind zones
directly behind vehicles to make sure it is safe to back up.”  Gentex Corp. , which makes camera-based automotive safety
systems, may benefit from the rule, said  Kevin Tynan , an
automotive analyst for Bloomberg LP. Gentex rose $2.67, or 12
percent, to $25.50 at 11:18 a.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading.  The gain was the biggest  since Oct.
21, 2009.  The  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers  and the
 Association of International Automobile Manufacturers , whose
members include U.S. and non-U.S.-based carmakers, said they are
reviewing the rule.  Industry Reaction  “Given that our top priority is keeping people, especially
children, safe in and around autos, the Alliance looks forward
to working with regulators to ensure that, in the end, we have
enhancements that saves lives and improve safety,”  Wade Newton ,
a spokesman for the Washington-based alliance, said in an e-
mail.  “AIAM supports the establishment of performance-based
requirements that provide maximum flexibility to manufacturers
in selecting approaches to meet enhanced rear visibility
requirements,” Annemarie Pender, a spokeswoman for the
Washington-based international group, said in an e-mail. “Our
members invest billions of dollars into saving lives by
researching, creating and deploying advanced safety features on
their vehicles.”  A rule to enhance rear-view visibility for drivers was
required by a 2007 law named after Cameron Gulbransen, a 2-year-
old from New York who died after his father accidentally backed
over him. NHTSA Administrator  David Strickland  helped write the
law when he worked for the Senate Commerce Committee.  Camera Cost  The regulator doesn’t specify which kind of technology must
be used, while saying in the proposed rule that “the most
effective technology option” it evaluated is the rearview video
system, which is also the most expensive.  In vehicles without a visual-display screen, rearview video
systems cost consumers $159 to $203. For a car with a video
screen, such as those used in navigation systems, adding a
camera would cost $58 to $88, NHTSA said.  NHTSA estimated about 18,000 people a year are hurt in
back-over accidents, with about 3,000 suffering
“incapacitating” injuries. The agency said 44 percent of the
incidents involve children under age 5.  NHTSA will accept comments on the proposed rule for 60
days. The agency said it plans to publish a final rule by Feb.
28,.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Angela Greiling Keane  in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 