-- UBA Plans to Spend $50 Million in Kenya on Acquisition and New Branches
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2010-12-03T05:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/uba-plans-to-spend-50-million-in-kenya-on-acquisition-and-new-branches.html
UBA Plc , Nigeria’s fourth-largest
bank, will inject $50 million into its Kenyan unit in the first
half of 2011 to fund a possible acquisition and open more
branches,  UBA Kenya Bank Ltd.  Managing Director Manz Denga said.  The funds will help cushion the lender against operating
losses that resulted from setting up operations in East Africa’s
biggest economy, Denga said in an interview on Dec. 1 in
Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. He didn’t elaborate on the bank’s
acquisition plans. The loss totaled 92 million shillings ($1.1
million) in the nine months through September, he said.  UBA became the second West African bank to invest in Kenya
in October 2009, after  Ecobank Transnational Inc. , the Togolese
lender that operates in 29 African countries, bought East Africa
Building Society Bank in June 2008.  “In our first year of operation, we have recorded losses
due to the huge capital expenditure outlay in setting up
operations, but with the new capital we will stabilize our
performance and start recording profits,” Denga said.  Lenders in  Kenya  have posted higher profit this year amid
accelerating economic growth after the central bank slashed
interest rates to a record low to boost credit extension to
businesses and households. Lenders’ assets grew 25 percent to
1.6 trillion shillings in the 12 months through August, as
deposits increased by 22 percent to 1.2 trillion shillings,
according to the  Central Bank of Kenya . Kenya has 43 commercial
banks, it said last month.  New Branches  UBA, based in Lagos, currently has three branches in Kenya
and will open three more by February 2011. The lender has
offices in 16 African countries.  The bank plans to offer insurance products in Kenya through
UBA Metropolitan, a partnership with  MMI Holdings Ltd. , the
South African insurer formerly known as Metropolitan Holdings
Ltd. It also has long-term mortgage facilities aimed at
enhancing home ownership in the country, Denga said.  Other services in the pipeline include credit cards and
asset-financing facilities, he said, without elaborating.  UBA’s shares have risen 1 percent so far this year,
underperforming a 19 percent advance in the Nigerian Stock
Exchange’s benchmark  All-Share Index  over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Johnstone Ole Turana  in Nairobi via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 