-- UBS Says Naratil to Replace Cryan as Finance Chief, Ermotti to Run Europe
-- B y   F r a n k   C o n n e l l y   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2010-12-03T20:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/ubs-says-cryan-stepping-down-naratil-to-become-cfo.html
UBS AG , Switzerland’s largest bank,
said  Tom Naratil  will replace  John Cryan  as chief financial
officer, while  Sergio Ermotti  will join from UniCredit SpA to
run Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  Naratil, the CFO and chief risk officer of UBS’s wealth-
management Americas unit, will replace Cryan, 49, on June 1, the
Zurich-based bank said in an e-mailed statement today. Cryan,
CFO since September 2008, is leaving to “pursue other interests
outside of UBS,” the company said.  “John has made an outstanding contribution,” Chief
Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , 67, said in the statement.
“In the midst of the financial crisis in 2008 he accepted the
role of group CFO and his knowledge and expertise were
instrumental in the task of rebuilding UBS’s financial
strength.”  UBS racked up more than $57 billion of writedowns and
losses during the credit crunch, second among European banks
after Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, and needed a government
rescue. The bank returned to  profit  in the final quarter of last
year, and recorded the first net client inflows at its wealth-
management units in more than two years last quarter.  Ermotti, the investment-banking chief at  UniCredit  and a
deputy CEO, is leaving the Milan-based company following the
departure of former CEO  Alessandro Profumo . He will start April
1 and be responsible for managing business in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa and coordinating across units in the region, UBS
said.  Asia Pacific  Cryan oversaw the EMEA region on an interim basis after
 Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell  was appointed co-head of the investment
bank with  Carsten Kengeter  in April 2009. Wilmot-Sitwell moved
last month to co-head the Asia-Pacific region from Hong Kong.  Ermotti, 50, is a Swiss national and worked 18 years at
Merrill Lynch & Co. before joining UniCredit in 2005 as head of
its markets and investment-banking division. He was named a
deputy CEO in July 2007.  “With this outstanding track record, in-depth industry
experience and leadership skills, Sergio will be a great
addition to my management team,” Gruebel said. “UBS
organization in EMEA will benefit from his broad knowledge in
the financial-services industry.”  As head of the investment bank, Ermotti had been in the
running for the role of UniCredit general manager, the No. 2
executive position at Italy’s biggest bank, which went to
 Roberto Nicastro . His plan to leave the bank was previously
announced.  Finding a Replacement  A spokeswoman for UniCredit in Rome said the bank had no
comment beyond what Nicastro said yesterday, when he told
reporters the bank will find a replacement for Ermotti in a few
weeks.  Naratil, a 49-year-old American, has been in his current
role since 2009. Previous positions include head of the auction
rate securities solutions group in 2008.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in
September it won’t seek a fine against UBS after reviewing the
bank’s efforts to compensate investors in auction rate
securities under a 2008 regulatory settlement. UBS purchased
more than $18 billion in such securities from clients after the
market for the instruments collapsed two years ago.  Naratil also held the role of global head of market
strategy and development and served as a member of the executive
committee of global wealth-management and the business-banking
division.  He joined Paine Webber Group Inc. in 1983, the same year he
received a bachelor’s degree in history from Yale University in
New Haven, Connecticut. He stayed with the company after UBS
acquired the U.S. broker in 2000. Naratil also holds a master’s
degree in business administration from New York University, UBS
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Elena Logutenkova  in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
 Frank Connelly  in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  