-- Munich Re Assesses Risk in Natural Disasters, Human Behavior
-- B y   C a r o l   M a t l a c k
-- 2010-12-03T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/munich-re-assesses-risk-in-natural-disasters-human-behavior.html
Last April 14, Iceland’s
Eyjafjallajokull volcano erupted.  Five days later,  Nissan Motor Co . shut down three auto
assembly lines in Japan. The factories had run out of tire-
pressure sensors when a plane carrying a shipment from a
supplier in Ireland was grounded because of volcanic ash. At a
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG plant in Spartanburg, South
Carolina, work slowed after transmissions couldn’t be delivered
from Germany, Bloomberg Businessweek reported.  What was the probability of that happening? That’s the kind
of question Munich Re must grapple with. Munich Re is the
world’s biggest reinsurer, one of a handful of industry giants
including Swiss Re and  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ’s General Re
Corp. that sell policies to insurance companies to cover the
risks they absorb from policyholders.  That gives the 130-year-old company an unparalleled view of
just about everything that could go wrong in the world. And in a
global economy, figuring out where and why those things might
happen is getting a lot more complicated.  “The most significant changes in risk management have
taken place in the past 7 to 10 years,” says  Joachim Oechslin ,
Munich Re’s chief risk officer. “Today it’s not only about data
gathering” -- using geological records, say, to predict the
likelihood of a volcanic eruption -- “but trying to figure out
the relationship of things,” such as how an event like the
Iceland volcano can ripple through a supply chain.  While  Munich Re  specialists are studying the eruption, they
say they still lack the tools to accurately predict the chain of
damages unleashed by such a disaster.  Analyzing Data  Inside its neo-Baroque headquarters overlooking the tree-
lined walkways of Munich’s English Garden, Munich Re specialists
pore over data to help them calculate the likelihood of a
dizzying array of mishaps. They know the probability that Los
Angeles will suffer a major earthquake in the next three decades
(it’s 97 percent) and the odds that a 60-year-old American man
will die from a heart attack by age 70 (3.2 percent if he
doesn’t smoke, and 8.4 percent if he does).  They search for patterns in data from past accidents,
learning, for instance, that boats are most likely to spring
leaks during the early months of an economic upswing. The
reason: During downturns, vessels are often placed in dry-dock,
where wood shrinks as its dries, leaving gaps where water can
enter when the boat returns to service.  Increasingly, Munich Re is focusing on what it calls
emerging risks: subtle, often seemingly innocuous trends that
could carry the seeds of disaster -- everything from rising
prices at art auctions (which can increase theft) to the
installation of rooftop photovoltaic panels (a fire risk).  Subprime Threat  Who knew that bundled subprime mortgages would lead to a
near collapse of the global financial system? Munich Re had a
pretty good inkling. In 2007 its analysts concluded that
collateralized debt obligations were far riskier than was
generally realized. The company wrote new policies for clients
in finance, setting tighter limits on its potential exposure to
losses from such instruments, and came through the crisis in
strong shape. In 2009,  its profit  rose 53 percent, to $3.5
billion, on revenue from premiums of $55.1 billion.  Munich Re learned the hard way about the need for more
sophisticated risk controls. A decade ago, it had invested about
20 percent of its capital in equities.  “We had the profile of a hedge fund rather than an
insurance company,” Oechslin says.  After markets worldwide tanked in 2002, the company booked
an unprecedented $492 million loss for 2003. Since then, Munich
Re has greatly diversified its investments, with less than 3
percent in equities.  House in Order  “They have their house in much better order than they did
five or six years ago,” says  Paul Walther , chief executive
officer of Reinsurance Directions, a Florida consulting firm.  One of the new risks Munich Re is tracking is climate
change. The company has the world’s most comprehensive database
on natural disasters, with information going back centuries. It
shows that the frequency of serious floods worldwide has more
than tripled since 1980, while hurricanes and other severe
windstorms have doubled.  “Global warming is real, and it affects our business,”
says Peter Hoppe, who heads the company’s climate-change
research.  Munich Re has become a leading advocate for renewable-
energy development, even joining a venture that plans to
generate solar power in the Sahara and ship it under the
Mediterranean to Europe.  Human Misbehavior  Other Munich Re specialists try to understand human risk-
taking behavior. Rainer Sachs, who heads the company’s emerging
risks research unit, spends his days pondering such head-
scratchers as the fact that, while traffic deaths have dropped
sharply in recent years, the rate of serious injuries from
accidents has not. His conclusion, buttressed by studies of
driver behavior in several countries: With airbags and other
safety features, drivers take more risks because they believe
their cars are safer.  “Everyone has his own risk thermostat,” he says. “We
introduce risk-mitigation devices that are supposed to make life
safer -- and then we change our behavior to make life more
interesting.”  Those insights could help Munich Re develop computer models
to predict the likelihood of accidents in a wide range of
settings, including financial markets. Sachs contends that a
similar thermostat effect figured in the global crisis.  “When people invested in subprime products, they bought
hedging products, so they felt safe,” he says.  Other human behaviors defy prediction. Terrorism, for one.
While insurers can draw conclusions by studying the actions of
groups of people, “You cannot model the decision-making of
small numbers of individuals,” says  Heike Trilovszky , Munich
Re’s corporate underwriting chief. “We’re convinced that
terrorism is not insurable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carol Matlack  in Paris at 
 cmatlack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ellen Pollock at   epollock@bloomberg.net  