-- Turkey Converging With BRICs on Cheapest to China Default Swaps
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2010-12-03T08:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/turkey-converges-with-brics-as-growth-sends-credit-swaps-cheapest-to-china.html
Turkey is converging with the BRIC
nations in the credit market as the country’s economic rebound
sends the cost of insuring debt against default to the lowest in
at least a year compared with Brazil, Russia, India and China.  The difference in the cost of five-year credit-default
swaps on Turkey’s junk-rated bonds narrowed to 70 basis points
above China yesterday, within 10 basis points of the all-time
low reached on Nov. 4, and was the cheapest in 19 months
compared with Brazil at a gap of 22 basis points last week,
according to prices from CMA, a data provider. Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings lifted their outlook for Turkey to
positive in the past two months.  “Turkey and China are very different countries, but this
decline in perceived risk is the result of a degree of
outperformance” through the global credit crisis,  Erkin Isik ,
an economist at Fortis Bank AS in Istanbul, said in a phone
interview. Turkey “was hit by the crisis but less than others,
and it’s emerging relatively better as a result,” he said.  Investors are becoming more confident in Turkey as its
economy grows at the second fastest pace in the Group of 20
major economies after China and record-low interest rates help
spur local consumer demand. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ,
who has completed two stand-by loan agreements with the
International Monetary Fund since his government came to office
in 2002, broke off talks with the IMF in March as the country no
longer needed a loan.  Turkey swaps fell 21 basis points below Russia on Nov. 29,
the lowest in a year, and are 37 lower than the State Bank of
India, both of which have better credit ratings.  Debt Reduction  Turkey’s government plans to reduce public debt to 42.3
percent of gross domestic product this year, 40.6 percent next
year and 38.8 percent in 2012, and bring the budget deficit down
to 2.8 percent next year from 4 percent this year.  Turkey’s GDP grew an annual 10.3 percent in the second
quarter, matching China’s as the fastest expansion the period
among G-20 economies.  Moody’s raised its outlook to positive from stable on
Turkey’s rating of Ba2, two steps below investment grade, citing
improvements in the economy and the country’s debt management.
Fitch Ratings lifted its ranking in December last year to BB+,
one step short of investment grade, and switched the outlook to
positive from stable last month.  “The market has now priced in that Turkey will soon get
upgraded to investment-grade status,” said  Arko Sen , a debt and
foreign-exchange strategist for emerging Europe, the Middle East
and Africa at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch in London.
“We think that’s something that’s likely to happen as well,
potentially towards the end of 2011.”  China, Brazil  China, with the fourth-highest investment-grade ranking of
Aa3 by Moody’s and fifth-highest from Fitch at A+, released
third-quarter GDP of 9.6 percent last month. Turkey will post
third-quarter figures Dec. 10.  Credit-default swaps on Turkey dropped to 139 basis points
yesterday from 183 at the start of the year and as high as 849
in October 2008. The gap over Brazil was 29 basis points
yesterday, down from 60 in January and 290 in October 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The contracts, which fall in price as perceptions of
creditworthiness improve, pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should the
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Debt Explosion  Investment-grade ratings for Turkey would probably reduce
the gap with Brazil swaps to zero, said Merrill’s Sen.  “China and Brazil and Turkey are all in a bucket of
countries where debt-to-GDP is the same or declining,” while in
other places debt it’s “exploding,”  Inan Demir , chief
economist at Finansbank AS, said in a telephone interview.  Turkey swaps fell to 19 basis points below Russia from 255
basis points higher in June 2006. Russia is ranked two levels
above junk by Fitch and S&P at BBB and three steps higher by
Moody’s at Baa1.  The contracts for Turkey are 6 basis points from the lowest
point in 19 months compared with the State Bank of India, which
is rated Ba1 by Moody’s, the highest junk rating, and BBB- by
S&P, its lowest investment-grade ranking. The difference is 6
basis points from the year high of 43 in August.  “Good things are happening in terms of Turkish
fundamentals, the strength of the banking system, the strong
fiscal performance this year, the generalized investor comfort
with Turkey, its high resilience to external jitters,” said
 Paul Biszko , emerging-market strategist at Royal Bank of Canada
in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  