-- Venezuela, Bolivia Say Climate Talks At Risk as Japan Refuses New Cuts
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2010-12-03T22:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/venezuela-bolivia-say-climate-talks-at-risk-as-japan-refuses-new-cuts.html
Venezuela and Bolivia, threatening to
derail United Nations global warming talks, led a group of Latin
American nations saying that any agreement had to include fresh
commitments from rich nations to cut greenhouse gas emissions.  Japan’s refusal to accept a second round of reductions
after the current limits in the Kyoto Protocol expire in 2012
means delegates at the meeting in Cancun, Mexico, are “wasting
their time,” Venezuelan envoy Claudia Salerno told reporters
today. She said her country and others can’t accept a package of
decisions without agreement on a second phase of Kyoto.  “This is a position that is 180 degrees opposite to where
Japan and a number of other developed countries are,” said
 Christiana Figueres , the UN diplomat who leads the talks. She
noted that Russia and Canada also reject a second commitment
period. “We need to find a compromise that will make everybody
equally uncomfortable or equally comfortable.”  The division raises the risk that this year’s negotiations
will fail in their goal to produce a package of decisions on
forests, aid and technology a year after UN discussions in
Copenhagen disintegrated.  “The outcome hangs in the balance,”  Todd Stern , the head
of the U.S. delegation said today as he arrived in Cancun for
the talks. “We do not know which way it will go yet. We can get
there as long as countries do not seek to become stumbling
blocks, to halt or slow down progress.”  Ambitions Curbed  Envoys have reined in their ambitions for this meeting in
the wake of Copenhagen, shooting instead for progress on
protecting forests, verifying emissions cuts and channelling
$100 billion a year in climate aid to developing nations.  “I am not concerned at all,” said  Eileen Claussen , a
former U.S. climate negotiator under President  Bill Clinton  who
now is president of the Pew Center of Global Climate Change in
Arlington, Virginia. “The whole issue will be deferred. I don’t
think it will derail anything.”  The talks are being conducted on two tracks. One would
extend the targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions agreed
in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan. The other would form a new treaty
giving obligations to both the developing nations and the U.S.
Venezuela and its allies want to extend Kyoto and say that
without progress on that front there can’t be an agreement.  ‘Very Difficult’  “If there isn’t a second commitment period of Kyoto it’s
very difficult for there to be a balanced package,” Salerno
said. After a “horrific” night in Copenhagen, “we can’t give
ourselves the luxury of failing again,” she said, adding that
her delegation won’t walk out of the talks.  Brazilian, Indian and Chinese delegates have all said
Japan’s rejection of new commitments under Kyoto threatens
progress.  Failure of these talks could also endanger the UN process,
said  Jake Schmidt , international climate policy director in
Washington at the Natural Resources Defense Council.  “If this meeting does not produce a successful outcome, a
lot of countries are going to question using these meetings as a
means to reach political outcomes,” Schmidt said in Cancun.  In Copenhagen, U.S. President  Barack Obama  and Chinese
premier  Wen Jiabao  were among about 30 leaders who drafted the
Copenhagen Accord, spelling out efforts the world’s biggest
emitters will take to slash greenhouse gases and setting a goal
of limiting warming since the 17th century to 2 degrees Celsius
(3.6 Fahrenheit.) Bolivia and Venezuela were among 6 nations to
reject the deal because they weren’t consulted.  ‘Balance’ Sought  Since then, Mexico has worked to produce a “balanced”
package of decisions in Cancun on preserving forests, setting up
a fund to channel climate aid and spreading clean technology,
Mexican Environment Minister  Juan Rafael Elvira Quesada  said in
an interview yesterday.  “Mexico focused their efforts on recovering from the
aftershocks we experience in Copenhagen last year,” South
Korean Ambassador for Climate Change  Shin Yeon-Sung  said today
in an interview. “They wanted to be realistically ambitious and
they have succeeded.”  Mexico believes the talks are proceeding “well” and that
the future of the Kyoto Protocol treaty can be decided two years
from now, Elvira Quesada said.  “The  Kyoto Protocol  doesn’t need to be changed from here
to Dec. 10,” when the current round of talks finish, he said.
“It still has two years left of life, and we can dedicate
ourselves to other areas where the world expects solutions.”  Work Completed  Stern of the U.S. said “a lot” of work has been done
since Copenhagen on anchoring emissions pledges made in the
Danish capital, starting up a green fund and establishing a
mechanism to spread clean technologies.  “I’d hate to lose that on the grounds of strife over the
Kyoto issue,” he said. “I hope we can find ground that both
sides can live with.”  The U.S. never ratified Kyoto, which sets no binding
greenhouse-gas emissions goals for developing nations. Elvira
Quesada said an eventual solution could be to maintain the Kyoto
treaty, which was devised in 1997, and add an annex or another
legal document that brings in the U.S., China and other major
emitters. Japanese negotiator  Kuni Shimada  said in a Nov. 30
interview that his country will accept new targets in a new deal
that also includes the biggest emitters, China and the U.S.  That’s not enough for Bolivia, said  Pablo Solon , the
nation’s lead negotiator in Cancun.  “It’s like saying to your wife ‘for me to stay married to
you, I hope you’ll let me take a second wife,’” Solon said.  Elvira Quesada said the Cancun talks may formalize the
emissions pledges made in the Copenhagen Accord, which aren’t
yet included in an official UN document. He urged all nations to
make compromises in order to reach an agreement.  “There needs to be a balanced set of decisions that are
useful to every country in the world so that every country in
the world can go home and say ‘this is the benefit we reap,’”
the minister said. “The perfect solution is the enemy of the
good agreement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Morales  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Kim Chipman  in Cancun, Mexico, at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  