-- Vinashin Loan Woes May Raise Vietnam State Firm Borrowing Costs
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   H e a t h
-- 2010-12-03T04:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/vinashin-loan-woes-may-drive-up-loan-costs-for-vietnam-s-state-companies.html
  Vietnam  National Coal-Mineral
Industries Group and other state companies in the Southeast
Asian nation may have to pay more to borrow as the near-bankrupt
national shipbuilder struggles to repay a foreign-currency loan.  Vietnam National Coal may have its rating downgraded as a
debt restructuring at Vietnam Shipbuilding Industry Group, known
as Vinashin, spurs a reassessment of government support for
state-owned enterprises, Moody’s Investors Service said on Dec.
1. Vinashin asked lenders for a delay on a $60 million loan
repayment due Dec. 20, the Wall Street Journal reported today,
citing a letter from Chief Executive Officer Truong Van Tuyen.  “It’s certainly not good for Vietnam and will mean the
cost of borrowing will be expensive,” Jonathan Pincus, an
economist at the Harvard Kennedy School in  Ho Chi Minh City ,
said in a phone interview. “There’s a lot of capital that wants
to come to Asia and Vietnam may miss out on that.”  Vinashin almost collapsed with debts of 86 trillion dong
($4.4 billion) as of June, and the company needs to refine its
focus after diversifying out of marine services, Deputy Prime
Minister Nguyen Sinh Hung has said. Delays in repayment of
Vinashin’s debts may damage the capital of some international
banks, according to Moody’s, as state-owned Electricity of
Vietnam seeks banks for a $1 billion overseas bond sale to
finance new power projects.  Vietnam’s dollar bonds lost 2.35 percent in November, their
worst month since they declined 4.85 percent in November 2009,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc index data. The nation’s $1
billion of bonds due January 2020 fell to 108.75 cents on the
dollar yesterday, the lowest in 10 weeks, according to BNP
Paribas SA prices.  Sale Delay  Vietnam National Coal, known as Vinacomin, postponed a sale
of as much as $500 million in 10-year bonds due to poor market
conditions, a person familiar with the matter said on Nov. 23.
The company may have its provisional Ba3 rating withdrawn,
according to Moody’s.  Foreigners may “rethink before investing in Vietnam,”
Francois Chavasseau, head of fixed-income research at Sacombank
Securities Joint-Stock Co., said in a phone interview from Ho
Chi Minh City. “There is definitely an impact from Vinashin.”  A World Bank report stated Vinashin falsified financial
reports before Moody’s said on Nov. 29 that the shipbuilder may
delay a $60 million principal payment on a $600 million, seven-
year loan organized by Credit Suisse Group AG in December 2008.  Vinashin’s near collapse indicates a “systemic failure”
in regulators’ supervision of state-owned companies, according
to the  Asian Development Bank .  ‘Systemic Failure’  Vinacomin Deputy Chief Executive Officer Nguyen Van Hai
declined to comment. Vinashin CEO Tuyen wasn’t immediately
available to comment when contacted by telephone by Bloomberg
News today. Phung Dinh Thuc, chief executive officer of state-
run Vietnam Oil and Gas Group, also wasn’t immediately available
to comment when called today.  “This may get people to re-think their dealings with
emerging markets as a whole,”  Alan Greene , a Moody’s senior
credit officer, said in a phone interview from Singapore.
“These sorts of risks are always laid out in the front of
offering circulars, but investors always think ‘it won’t happen
this time’.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  