-- Wal-Mart Sues CVS Caremark to Block Hiring of Former Executive VP Mullany
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2010-12-04T01:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/wal-mart-sues-cvs-caremark-over-hiring-of-former-vp-mullany.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest retailer, sued  CVS Caremark Corp.  to stop the drugstore
chain from hiring its ex-executive vice president,  Hank Mullany ,
and a judge temporarily barred him from joining the company.  CVS’s hiring of Mullany, 52, former president of Wal-Mart’s
northern U.S. division, would violate a non-compete agreement,
Wal-Mart said in the complaint filed yesterday in Delaware
Chancery Court in Wilmington. Judge  Travis Laster  issued an
order today blocking Mullany from taking his new post until
after a Dec. 15 court hearing, according to court filings.  “Defendant CVS is hereby restrained temporarily from
engaging Mullany in any employment or association in any
capacity with CVS,” Laster said in the order.  Mullany, hired by Wal-Mart in 2006, oversaw  operations  at
587 Wal-Mart stores in 13 states including Pennsylvania,
Virginia, New Jersey and New York, according to the suit. He was
“privy” to Wal-Mart’s national strategies and responsible for
implementing those strategies in the northeastern U.S., lawyers
for the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer said.  Wal-Mart and CVS, the  largest provider  of prescription
drugs in the U.S., compete over prescription and over-the-
counter drugs, as well as beauty aids and health products,
according to the complaint.  Disappointing Delay  “The  company  and Mr. Mullany believe the allegations in
the lawsuit are without merit” and “intend to aggressively
defend the lawsuit,”  Carolyn Castel , a spokeswoman for
Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based CVS, said today in an e-mailed
statement.  CVS officials are “disappointed” that Mullany’s tenure at
the drugstore chain is being delayed by Wal-Mart’s lawsuit,
Castel said in a second e-mailed statement.  Mullany signed a non-compete agreement in December 2009
when he was promoted to president of Wal-Mart North, according
to Wal-Mart’s complaint. That role put him in charge of real
estate and supply-chain functions for 1,312 stores in 19 states,
according to the complaint. The non-compete agreement barred him
from working for a competitor for two years after leaving Wal-
Mart. He resigned in October and left the company on Nov. 5.  “Mullany’s employment with CVS will necessarily require
Mullany to use and disclose Walmart’s confidential
information,” the retailer said in its suit. “Knowledge of
Walmart’s confidential information would be extremely valuable
to CVS and will be used by  CVS  to gain competitive advantage.”  Wal-Mart  has used its purchasing power to offer lower-cost
drugs and compete with CVS, analysts say. In October, it
announced plans to team up with health insurer Humana Inc. to
offer the lowest-cost prescription drug plan in the U.S.  Wal-Mart started filling generic drug prescriptions for $4
an order in September 2006 and has more than 4,000 pharmacies in
the U.S.  The case is Wal-Mart Stores Inc. v. Mullany, CA No 6040,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington)  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sophia Pearson  in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;  Jef Feeley  in Wilmington, Delaware, at
   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 