-- Walter Energy to Buy Western Coal for $3.3 Billion as Price of Fuel Rises
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2010-12-03T14:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/walter-energy-western-coal-agree-to-3-3-billion-merger-as-output-expands.html
Walter Energy Inc. , a southern
Appalachia producer of steelmaking coal, agreed to buy Canada’s
 Western Coal Corp.  for C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion) to add
reserves and boost production of the commodity as prices rise.  Walter Energy offered C$11.50 a share in cash or 0.114 of a
Walter Energy share, the companies said today in a joint
statement. The deal, which has unanimous approval from both
boards, follows a Nov. 18 announcement that they were in
exclusive talks.  Mergers and acquisitions in the coal industry are
increasing as demand from steelmakers in China, the biggest
producer of the alloy, drives up prices for the raw material.
Prices for coking, or steelmaking, coal sold to Asia will rise 8
percent next quarter, according to UBS AG.  “We do love coking coal,” said  Ian Henderson , who manages
about $7 billion at JPMorgan Chase & Co. including Western Coal
shares. “We were long-term investors in this particular
project, but we thought the company was too lowly valued. We are
not expecting anybody else to come in and counter bid.”  Walter previously agreed to pay C$630 million for a 19.8
percent stake in Western Coal from largest shareholder Audley
European Opportunities Master Fund Ltd., it said Nov. 18.  Shares Rise  Western Coal  soared $1.03, or 10 percent to C$11.33 in
Toronto trading. The stock jumped as much as 51 percent on Nov.
18.  Walter Energy  rose 84 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $106.44 at
9:48 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The offer price is a 26 percent premium to the 20-day
average price of Vancouver-based Western Coal through Nov. 17.
That’s in line with the average premium for coal-industry deals
announced this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The offer price is a decent premium to where it was
trading beforehand,” JPMorgan’s Henderson said. “For
shareholders it’s probably the best that they can get.”  Rising coal consumption has prompted Rio Tinto Group, the
world’s third-largest mining company, to team up with Aluminum
Corp. of China on coking-coal projects in China. In the U.S.,
Massey Energy Co., the largest coal producer in Central
Appalachia, has received bids from companies including Alpha
Natural Resources Inc., two people with knowledge of the matter
said last month.  “The outlook for coking coal is good,”  Richard Knights ,
an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd., said by telephone from
London. “The big picture is all about China’s move to become a
net importer.”  Financing Committed  The total amount of cash paid to Western Coal holders is
expected to be about C$2.1 billion, with an estimated 9 million
shares to be issued, according to today’s statement. Financing
for the offer is fully committed, the companies said.  “This is a transformative transaction at a time when
global demand for metallurgical coal is surging,”  Joe Leonard ,
interim chief executive officer of Tampa, Florida-based Walter
Energy, said in the statement. “Western Coal has an attractive
high-quality metallurgical coal asset base and has embarked on
an organic growth strategy that is expected to increase
production more than 60 percent by fiscal 2013.”  Shareholder Audley said other parties, including
steelmakers, were interested in its Western Coal stake.  “Walter is the best match because there were a lot of
synergies, geographically, in terms of customers and
management,”  Julian Treger , managing partner of Audley Capital,
said in an interview. “It’s likely the other shareholders will
follow in accepting Walter’s offer in due course. In the absence
of another alternative I don’t see why they wouldn’t approve.”  Deal Completion  Walter Energy plans to maintain its  listing  on the New York
Stock Exchange and will apply to sell shares in Toronto. The
company expects the deal to be completed by the second quarter
of 2011. Morgan Stanley is advising Walter, and RBC Capital
Markets is advising Western Coal.  “With its size and financial strength, the combined
business will have future growth opportunities that neither one
of us would have on our own,”  Keith Calder , president and CEO
of Western Coal, said in the statement.  The combined entity will have total coal reserves of about
385 million tons and be the world’s largest publicly traded
“pure-play” metallurgical coal producer, according to the
statement. The company expects to produce more than 20 million
tons a year by 2021.  “Strategically, this kind of fits,” said  Jim Rollyson , an
analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc. in Houston. “I like it.
They now have access into Asia that they didn’t have before.”  Rollyson said barring another global economic setback,
prices for metallurgical coal will remain strong and the
combined company will be poised to benefit.  Western Coal will hold a shareholder vote to approve the
transaction, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Riseborough  in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  