-- WaMu Makes Case for JPMorgan Settlement Without Citing `Privileged' Advice
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2010-12-03T21:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/wamu-says-it-settled-billions-in-claims-without-lawyers-advice.html
Washington Mutual Inc. , former owner
of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, didn’t rely on advice it got
from its lawyers when settling legal claims against  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  worth billions of dollars, two executives testified.  Company officials depended on their own reading of the
strengths and weaknesses of the claims WaMu and JPMorgan
asserted against each other, Seattle-based WaMu’s chief
restructuring officer,  William Kosturos , told the judge
overseeing the company’s bankruptcy at a hearing yesterday.  “A person who is confident in certain financial matters
could come to a reasonable conclusion” about whether to settle
the disputes, Jonathan Goulding, WaMu’s treasurer, testified
today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  WaMu is trying to win approval of a settlement with New
York-based JPMorgan and federal regulators that splits almost
$10 billion in cash and tax refunds. The company’s plan to end
its bankruptcy and pay $7.5 billion to creditors is built on the
proposed settlement.  The bankruptcy plan and the settlement both need the
approval of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Mary F. Walrath . She barred
WaMu from citing a court-ordered report that found the
settlements were reasonable. She excluded the Nov. 1 report by
 Joshua R. Hochberg  after creditors and shareholders said its
conclusions are based on facts that aren’t public and can’t be
challenged.  The hearing will continue Dec. 6.  Making a Case  WaMu is trying to make its case without referring to that
report or to any confidential legal advice company officials
received from their attorneys. Under court rules, the lawyers
would have to testify if WaMu cited their advice.  Company attorney  David Elsberg  said yesterday at the
beginning of the hearing that WaMu wouldn’t use any
“privileged” legal advice to support its case that the
settlements meet the legal standard of fair and reasonable.  Last year, the chief bankruptcy judge in Delaware,  Kevin Carey , rejected a $70 million settlement between computer
chipmaker Spansion Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. Inc. in part
because company officials testified that they didn’t rely on
advice of their attorneys.  Spansion, which has since exited bankruptcy, was opposed by
creditors in that case, just as shareholders and creditors of
WaMu are fighting its settlement. WaMu attorney  Brian Rosen 
declined to comment on the Spansion case.  WaMu filed for  bankruptcy  on Sept. 26, 2008, the day after
its banking unit was taken over by regulators and sold to
JPMorgan. Before it failed, Washington Mutual Bank had more than
2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  WaMu’s 8.25 percent bonds that were due in April rose as
much as 2.8 percent to 117 cents on the dollar before closing at
115 cents, according to TRACE, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steven Church  in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 