-- Washington Post School's Former Dean Alleges Fraud to Get Government Aid
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2010-12-03T14:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/washington-post-school-s-former-dean-alleges-fraud-to-get-u-s-student-aid.html
A former dean of  Washington Post
Co. ’s Kaplan higher education unit alleged the company engaged
in fraudulent activities to get U.S. student aid as he defended
himself against criminal cyber-harassment charges in a federal
jury trial under way in Chicago.  U.S. prosecutors charge Bennie Wilcox, a former dean of law
and legal studies at  Kaplan University , with six counts of
sending threatening e-mails and online postings, according to
court filings. Kaplan turned over evidence to the authorities
that led to the 2008 indictment, said Ron Iori, a Kaplan
spokesman. The fraud allegations against Kaplan are untrue and
the company “vigorously” denies them, Iori said in a telephone
interview.  Wilcox witnessed Kaplan executives commit “multiple
schemes” to defraud the U.S. government and taxpayers out of $1
billion, he said yesterday in his first day of testimony in U.S.
District Court. He said Kaplan is retaliating for his attempt to
expose fraud at the company in a pending whistleblower lawsuit
in Florida filed in 2007.  Kaplan “launched a campaign to ruin my life,” he told the
jury yesterday. “They made threats against me. They made my
life, frankly, a living hell.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Michael Ferrara told jurors that
Wilcox used Kaplan’s computer system in 2007 to send e-mails to
students and employees and posted communications on its online
message boards threatening to “take down” the university’s
computers and reveal personal information because he was angry
about his termination at Kaplan in 2006. He was employed by
Kaplan for less than a year, according to the indictment.  ‘Anger and Hate’  “The Internet became a tool for him to spread his message
of anger and hate,” Ferrara said in his opening statement on
Nov. 30.  Wilcox denies the cybercrime allegations.  “We believe the evidence shows that Wilcox did not send
the charged e-mails and that in fact Kaplan has reason to try to
discredit him because he was a whistleblower,” Beau Brindley,
Wilcox’s attorney, said in an interview prior to the trial.  Wilcox didn’t go into specifics about his fraud allegations
yesterday. His testimony continues today. In court filings,
Wilcox said he observed Kaplan executives participating in
schemes to inflate grades and increase enrollment numbers to
defraud the federal government of student-aid funds. He said he
participated in it as well, filings show.  ‘Suddenly Raised Allegations’  “On the eve of his trial by the U.S. Department of
Justice, Ben Wilcox has suddenly raised allegations that he has
made unsuccessfully in the past, in order to divert attention
from his own conduct,” Iori said.  Kaplan faces an investigation by the Florida attorney
general into recruiting practices at Kaplan and other for-profit
colleges. Kaplan suspended enrollment at two of its campuses
after a U.S. Government Accountability Office investigation
released Aug. 4 found recruiters were exaggerating how much
applicants could earn from a Kaplan education.  Kaplan Higher Education is based in Chicago. Kaplan enrolls
110,000 students, of which about 70,000 attend classes online,
and it has 75 campuses nationwide, Iori said.  Andrew S. Rosen , chairman and chief executive officer of
Kaplan, testified Nov. 30 that he had security guards posted
outside of his home after receiving communications threatening
to “take down” the company’s online operations.  Washington Post Revenue  Washington Post fell $3.79, or 1 percent, to $383.82 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 9:41 a.m. The shares
have dropped 28 percent through yesterday, since closing at a
52-week high April 15, as Kaplan and other for-profit colleges
have come under scrutiny this year by Congress, the U.S.
Department of Education, and the GAO.  The publisher of the Washington Post newspaper obtained
almost two-thirds of its third-quarter revenue from the Kaplan
education unit, the Washington-based company said Nov. 5.
Predominantly online Kaplan University derived 87 percent of its
revenue from federal student aid in 2009.  The case is United States of America v. Bennie Wilcox,
1:08-cr-00256, U.S. District Court, Northern Division of
Illinois Eastern Division (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Esmé E. Deprez  in Chicago at  edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  