-- Tweeting Rules May Leave Brokers With Little to Say to Clients
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2010-12-03T15:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/tweeting-rules-may-leave-brokers-with-little-to-say-to-clients.html
Social media sites such as LinkedIn
and Twitter are redefining the way businesses reach their
customers. Securities firms are largely absent from the
revolution.  Regulators and company rules at brokerages have slowed the
adoption of social media by the financial services industry,
said  Margaret Paradis , a New York-based partner at law firm
Baker & McKenzie, who advises brokers and fund managers. Firms
banning employees from using sites such as Facebook, LinkedIn
and Twitter are limiting access to cheap and easy-to-use
competitive tools, she said.  “Networks and referrals are how this business is done,
said  Stacey Haefele , president and chief executive officer of
New York-based wealth marketing firm HNW Inc. ‘‘By ignoring
social media, you risk not being out there where your clients
are.’’ About 84 percent of U.S. brokerage firm employees polled
by HNW said they don’t use social media because company and
industry regulations make it too burdensome, she said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which
regulates the securities industry, says all broker stock
recommendations must be  ‘‘suitable”  for individual clients by
measuring their risk tolerance, security holdings, income, net
worth and investment objectives, according to the agency’s
website. Sending a stock pick on Twitter or posting it on 
Facebook generally breaks this rule, said David Sobel, 
executive vice president and compliance officer at New York-
based  Abel/Noser Corp. , which helps clients lower trading
costs and does allow its employees to use LinkedIn for 
networking.  Finra Rules  Firms such as Bank of America’s  Merrill Lynch & Co.  and  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp.  generally restrict all broker-to-
investor interaction on social media sites because of concerns
they may violate SEC rules and those of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, the non-governmental body that oversees
almost 5,000 brokerages. Brokers who break the rules may be
fined or suspended for communicating in a manner that’s viewed
as intentionally or recklessly misleading, Finra said.  Finra requires companies to supervise and store all broker-
client exchanges, such as e-mails and now Twitter posts and
Facebook updates. Brokerages also are required to approve most
postings on websites,  Tom Pappas , vice president of advertising
regulation at Finra, said in an interview. Finra released a
regulatory  notice  in January with guidelines for firms using
social media. “We issued these standards to help firms
understand and follow the rules,” Pappas said.  Too Burdensome  Nearly half of 623 financial advisers in a survey released
by HNW Oct. 26 said they haven’t figured out how to mix social
media tools into their marketing strategies. HNW surveyed
national brokers, registered investment advisers, independent
broker-dealers and dually registered advisers.  Vanguard Group, the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based
investment manager, now permits employees to use Facebook and
LinkedIn as long as specific investment recommendations aren’t
given. Twelve workers spent three months blogging, posting and
tweeting part-time on social media sites to figure out the best
way to use each, said Amy Dobra, who heads the company’s social
media efforts.  “We didn’t just say we’re going to go on Twitter because
everyone’s going out on Twitter,” she said. “We watched.”  Vanguard’s competitors, such as Charles Schwab Corp., TD
Ameritrade, and Merrill Lynch use Facebook pages for general
information and marketing without providing specific investment
advice. Some brokerages use Twitter the same way.  Firms should make their commentary on social networks
relate to people, said  Jack Dorsey , chairman and co-founder of
San Francisco-based Twitter, in an interview. “The more human
you make it, the more interest you’ll have,” he said. “It
can’t feel like something from the PR department.”  Worcestershire Sauce  Tony Hsieh , chief executive officer of Amazon.com Inc.’s
Zappos.com Inc., which sells footwear online, has gained more
than 1.7 million followers by scattering tweets about his
company along with daily observations. On Sept. 19 he tweeted,
“Studies find top three most stressful moments in people’s
lives: death, divorce and properly pronouncing Worcestershire
sauce,” and on Oct. 10, he posted, “What’s life like six
months after Zappos customers get married at Zappos Las Vegas
headquarters?” with a link to a video of the couple.  A study by the Aite Group showed that less than 10 percent
of financial services firms have a separate social media budget,
according to a Nov. 17 study of 166 executives by the Boston-
based market research and advisory firm. Six in 10 financial
firms consider themselves to be social media novices or
beginners, the study said.  Facebook Obsessed  “You talk to the marketers in these organizations and
they’re so obsessed with how many Facebook followers and ‘likes’
they have,”  Ron Shevlin , a Boston-based senior analyst who
wrote the study for Aite Group, said. If there are half a
million people looking at a company’s page on Facebook, “how is
that any better than fighting for attention with a TV
commercial?” he said.  Companies that actively engage potential customers will see
better results if they integrate social media into current
sites. Creating a sense of community with clients is crucial,
Shevlin said.  Brokers eager to exploit social media may turn to firms
such as H5 and Socialware to develop the record-keeping
technology that will pass muster with regulators.  Socialware  generally charges clients $22 per user to
archive content from social media sites such as Facebook,
Twitter and LinkedIn and moderate discussions to make sure they
comply with broker standards, said Chad Bockius, chief executive
officer of the Austin, Texas-based company, in an interview. The
fee varies depending on the size of the firm, he said.  Automated Approach  Technology may not be as cost-effective for small firms as
designating an employee to monitor the sites, James Wolf, senior
technical director of information governance solutions at San
Francisco-based  H5 , said in an interview.  “For a large firm where there are thousands of registered
representatives, a more automated approach may be better,” he
said, referring to record-keeping technology made by companies
such as H5.  “The whole idea of ‘just say no’ is as effective today as
it was in the anti-drug campaigns in the 1980s,” said Chris
Surdak, senior director, information governance solutions of H5,
referring to a slogan made popular by former first  lady Nancy Reagan . “You’re better off embracing it than fighting it,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Danielle Kucera  in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 