-- Wharton School Follows Yale, Stanford With Overhaul of Business Curriculum
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2010-12-03T19:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/wharton-has-new-curriculum-with-free-executive-courses-update1-.html
The Wharton School of the University
of Pennsylvania, the oldest business school in the U.S., will
introduce a new curriculum and offer some graduates free
executive education.  The curriculum, which will be fully implemented in 2012,
will include a focus on ethics and on oral and written
communication, according to a statement today from Wharton,
based in Philadelphia. Graduates with a master’s degree in
business administration will be eligible for tuition-free
executive education every seven years, the school said.  Wharton, ranked third among U.S. business schools by
Bloomberg Businessweek magazine, follows the Yale School of
Management, in New Haven, Connecticut, and the Stanford Graduate
School of Business, near Palo Alto, California, in overhauling
its curriculum. The new plan offers students more choice in what
they study and a greater emphasis on global business education
as well as statistics and microeconomics, according to the
statement.  “Wharton’s new curriculum design offers our students a
framework for success in a rapidly changing world,”  Thomas Robertson , Wharton’s dean, said in the statement. “Business
schools must equip the next generation of leaders with the
knowledge, skills and perspective they need to meet the global
economic, environmental, humanitarian and policy challenges of
the future.”  Wharton, founded in 1881, enrolls 800 MBA students yearly
and has 2,446 undergraduates. Graduates include  Donald Trump , 
the real estate developer;  Steve Cohen , the chairman of SAC  
Capital Advisors LP; and  Michael Milken , the former junk-
bond pioneer and philanthropist who served two years in prison
for securities fraud.  The Bloomberg Businessweek rankings listed the Booth School
of Business at the University of Chicago as the top U.S.
business school, followed by Harvard Business School, in Boston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Oliver Staley  in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  