-- Wheat Purchasing Accelerated in Japan After Tight Supplies Boost Prices
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2010-12-03T08:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/wheat-purchasing-accelerated-in-japan-after-tight-supplies-boost-prices.html
Wet weather threatening wheat crops
in Australia is forcing Japan, Asia’s second-largest importer,
to accelerate purchases as supplies tighten and prices climb.  Japan, which imports almost 90 percent of its wheat, will
bring forward an import tender by two days to meet demand from
flour millers, Toshiki Tojo at the grain trade division of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries said today by
phone. The government plans to buy 193,417 metric tons from the
U.S. and Canada Dec. 7 after securing 209,297 tons of American
wheat in yesterday’s tender, the largest purchase in two years.  More than half of the wheat crop from Queensland state in
Australia, the world’s fourth-largest exporter, may deteriorate
to feed grade following heavy rain, tightening supplies, Wayne
Newton, grains president of Brisbane-based farm group  Agforce ,
said yesterday. Wheat in Chicago climbed to the highest level in
almost four months as buyers seeking high-quality wheat may
increase purchases from the U.S., the largest exporter.  “Global supply of high-protein wheat is becoming tight on
bad weather in Australia and Canada,” Charlie Utsunomiya,
director at the Tokyo office of U.S. Wheat Associates, said
today. “Demand is shifting to the U.S. as Asian buyers are
advancing purchases to secure supplies.”  Wheat futures for March delivery advanced as much as 2.7
percent to $7.69 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
highest level for a most-active contract since Aug. 6, when
Russia’s export ban boosted the price to a two-year high.  Increasing Demand  The farm ministry, which controls overseas purchases and
domestic sales of wheat to stabilize supply, normally imports
milling wheat three times a month. In November it held four
tenders to buy a total of 429,567 tons, the largest monthly
amount since July. Yesterday’s purchase of U.S. wheat was the
biggest volume since June 19, 2008, when it bought 227,000 tons.  “We are making purchases to secure the necessary volume as
demand from domestic flour millers is increasing,” Shirara
Shiokawa, director at the ministry’s grain trade division, said
in a separate interview. “We are taking a flexible stance as we
want to buy the grain at the best possible time.”  The ministry forecast in March that Japan’s imports of
milling wheat will climb 3.3 percent annually to 4.96 million
tons in the year ending next March, the highest level in four
years, after domestic production declined on wet weather.  “Imports may become larger as Japanese wheat growers had a
poor harvest for the second straight season this year,” Masaaki
Kadota, executive director at Japan’s Flour Millers Association,
said today by phone.  The country’s farmers produced 674,000 tons of wheat in
2009, 23 percent less than a year earlier, according to the
ministry. The harvest this year may be similar to 2009, he said.  Japan bought 2.96 million tons of milling wheat from the
U.S. in the year ended March 31, or 62 percent of total imports.  Japan also purchased 962,000 tons from Australia and
875,000 tons from Canada, the second-largest shipper, last
fiscal year, the data from the ministry showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aya Takada  in Tokyo 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  