-- WikiLeaks Moves Website to Switzerland After U.S. Domain Service Cut Off
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2010-12-03T16:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-12-03/wikileaks-site-inaccessible-after-being-cut-off-by-internet-domain-service.html
WikiLeaks.org, the whistle-blowing
website forced to move its domain name to Switzerland after its
U.S. service was withdrawn, may be banned from French servers.  It is “not acceptable” for servers in France to host the
site, French Industry Minister  Eric Besson  said in a letter to
the CGIET technology agency. The minister asked for measures to
bar WikiLeaks from France, where it is partially hosted by
Roubaix, France-based OVH SAS.  WikiLeaks, which is releasing about 250,000 U.S. diplomatic
cables, began directing readers to the Swiss domain WikiLeaks.ch
rather than WikiLeaks.org, it said on a  Twitter  feed.
EveryDNS.net, a U.S. service that translates online addresses to
Internet Protocol numbers to provide access, ended WikiLeaks’s
service at 10 p.m. New York time, its  website  shows, leaving the
site inaccessible for several hours.  The shutdown in the U.S., which WikiLeaks confirmed,
occurred because electronic attacks on the site threatened the
stability of access to other clients’ websites, EveryDNS said.
Since it began releasing the cables on Nov. 28, WikiLeaks has
faced so-called denial of service attacks, where hackers attempt
to overwhelm a website with repeated requests for data.  While fully removing information on the Web is “almost
impossible,” repeated attacks can reduce its reach, said
Stephen Wolthusen, a researcher in the Information Security
Group at Royal Holloway, University of London. “What you want
to present is a real website,” he said. “These entry points
can be, essentially, forced off the net. It becomes much less
user-friendly for the average person.”  Active Investigation  The Swiss Pirate Party, a political group that supports
copyright and patent law changes, owns the domain name
WikiLeaks.ch, which reroutes to WikiLeaks.org content, Denis
Simonet, a spokesman, said. Simonet said he was unsure if
WikiLeaks had also moved to Swiss servers.  The U.S., France, the U.K. and other countries have
condemned the cable releases, which they say could endanger the
lives of field personnel and hurt relations with allies. Besson,
the French minister, today said that WikiLeaks “is endangering
diplomatic relations, but also people who thought they were
legitimately protected by diplomatic secrecy.”  U.S. Senators  Dianne Feinstein , chairman of the Senate
Intelligence Committee, and  Christopher Bond , the committee’s
vice chairman, asked Attorney General  Eric Holder  in a letter
dated yesterday to prosecute the site’s founder, Australian-born
 Julian Assange , 39, for espionage.  Assange is also wanted by Swedish authorities for
questioning in connection with rape charges. Swedish prosecutors
said yesterday that they provided U.K. police with additional
information pursuant to an arrest warrant for Assange, who has
denied the allegations.  Test Case  Amazon.com Inc. , the Seattle-based online retailer that
also hosts websites on its servers, dropped the leak site from
its system this week. In a  blog post , Amazon said that while it 
had not been influenced by the U.S. government, WikiLeaks 
could be “putting innocent people in jeopardy” by posting 
confidential documents, and was violating terms of service 
by posting material it doesn’t own.  “At the end of the day, (WikiLeaks’s) biggest asset is
being able to post to the sites of the New York Times and the
Guardian and Der Spiegel and Le Monde,” said  Ross Anderson , a
professor of security engineering at the University of
Cambridge.  At the same time, “this is the first serious test-case for
a censorship-resistant system,” he said. “If WikiLeaks were
just angering the U.S. government that would be easy; it could
just go get hosted in Venezuela or Cuba or somewhere similar.
But it’s angered a lot of different governments.”  Other websites have experienced so-called denial of service
attacks like those on WikiLeaks, which are a common tool of
hackers. In July last year, attacks in South Korea caused the
shutdown of sites including those of the presidential Blue House
and the foreign and defense ministries. The South Korean
government blamed North Korea for the electronic assault, which
infected an estimated 20,000 computers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matthew Campbell  in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 